Hey, everybody. Welcome back to the MacWhisperer academy. I'm Dylan Stewart, the MacWhisperer. If you've ever gotten one of those that tells you that your passwords lesson today is just for you. Let's get started. Passwords used to be so simple. You didn't need a capital letter. You didn't need a number or a symbol. You could use the same Oh, those were the good old days even your grandmother knew about. Before thieves had these sophisticated into your passwords and test that there, which brings us to the compromised Why are you seeing that warning? Well, it can happen for One of the reasons could be that that reported it and apple is letting you know. That happens. But the more common reason that it same password on tons and tons of which means that every other one that's compromised, which means two things. We just can't use the same And we have to start to The first thing I want to talk to create a smart password. First thing we want to understand criteria for passwords, a minimum of letter, and at least one number. There's a few websites that websites that can't use a symbol. So what I recommend is starting The base password can be anything. You want it to be a word that you don't generally go together like that's completely meaningless except So pick your word, pick your base to use fuzzy lemon because why not? It's simple. It's easy. I can remember it. So once you've got your base password to what number we're going to use. I recommend using a number Or your age or your children's you can update without throwing Once you have your base. And your number we're ready going to use fuzzy lemon 22. So what I propose for the system is password for every single website, you add on an identifying feature from going to use the first two letters of Or the first letter and the last it doesn't matter, but whatever you I've seen a lot of clients that use the last two letters on that site and of some other site that doesn't work. You're going to have to create those letters and you add them If I was using fuzzy lemon 22, and I could take the goo or the geo So let's do that. Let's take the G and the E from the end. Now, where do I put them within fuzzy? Anywhere you want, you can put GE fuzzy It really doesn't matter as So if my base password was fuzzy lemon, letters, my Google password would be password would be, A-M fuzzy lemon 22. And if you're watching this and thinking Don't bother trying that password. It won't work. I'm just using it as an example. I'm not that dumb. So let's assume that you've got you know how you're going to do it? You know what your base word is? You know, what letters you're going to part of the problem because now you're And where are you going to store them? I know, I know you're thinking I'm going to remember them. But let's be honest. You won't. How do I know? I've been doing this for 20 years? I've been teaching systems like clients call me, call me asking So even with a system, this simple, exceptions will cause problems. So whatever you do, we need Some people put them They keep that notebook near their system because it can't be hacked. And it's great, as long as you're a password, which is not going to going to be out and about, I'm going to be trying to log into Instagram, You're not going to know what it is. So you're going to guess and you're going to have to reset it and then And then you're going to forget And then the whole system falls Trust me. In 20 years of computer work, I've seen who have those physical notebooks for the most money on me, figuring out thought they had the password for. Some people have chosen to put all address book, theoretically, it's really a terrible place to put them. Why? Well, first of all, that's not It creates its own issue. If your phone or anything gets a thief is going to look. And on top of that, it clutters up your address book doesn't work properly. Siri doesn't find things properly, names, you stumble across all of that just don't belong there. It's just not an effective system. So in a moment, we're going to talk That's really my recommendation for don't want to spend the money or So for those people I Let me open up a note for us here. For those of you that have been I am a fanatic for apple notes. I use it all the time and for tons of the suggestions I make for a lot Forget about having that notepad. Forget about using Microsoft Forget about putting it Just put it in notes. You can start off by creating a it something other than passwords. Just for simplicity. I like the word elephant. It's the elephant in the room. You can use whatever you want to use. Just remember that's And then using that note, you write order with their password. So it looked like this Amazon, and I know you're thinking to yourself, Don't make that assumption, Now, for most websites, your username handful of them that don't work that way. Ones like financial sites, credit use an email as your username. So don't get yourself confused by And then I go onto the next website. So I recommend just keeping it simple. Keeping it alphabetical Some people will say to me, well, But hopefully you're using a to protect your phone number. But if you really want to secure it by clicking up here and locking But don't forget that password or So notes is a pretty decent But in my book, there's And that's a password management system. What makes a password Is that not only does it give you a passwords, but when you open up a website, so you don't have to remember it. You don't have to look it up. When you change your password on program prompts you to update your a good password management program your computer, the web, basically might need access to your passwords.. These programs are all heavily encrypted Many of them will also give you a autofill information that makes It's definitely not necessary to use me it simplifies things significantly. I'm going to tell you a little story. I had been using using a password but earlier this year, they decided to and go to only using a web app for I did my best to use their web app. I really tried. I had a ton of clients that were and I converted all of the clients to I really didn't like it. I was really unhappy with it. So I set out to find a better And after two months of testing, every there, I came across one called Roboform. So I tried it and I liked, it was simple. It was clean. It was easy to use. I turned all of my clients on the to me and said, we noticed you're Is there anything we can do for you? So Roboform gave me my own discount code If you do choose to use Roboform, I get a kickback from them But I'll tell you I would I will be recommending it whether I'm not saying you need to use You can do anything you want to do. You can use any of the systems that my clients, I do recommend a password Roboform is not the only There are dozens there's one password. Dash lane, there's apples own So you can pick literally any of these choose to do whatever password system The complex systems don't keep out They keep you out. So, if you liked this video and it hit that thumbs up button. And if you would like to see more videos release new videos regularly with apple much, much more so that you can always effort than you ever thought possible. And if you'd like to help me out by link, you'll get a 30% discount by using at any rate I'm Dylan Stewart. I'm the MacWhisperer, and I