Satellites are essential tools in our global communication, gather valuable scientific other planets in the solar system. These orbiting only must they survive extreme forces and to operate reliably in the harsh environment fascinating world of satellite technology, and the each mission. Any satellite can be thought of bus. The payload is the equipment used to carry for. An earth observation mission could have a a communications mission would likely be equipped and a scientific research mission might carry is essentially everything else. It includes operate the satellite and support the payload. sizes. This one has a mass of just under 100 category. Large satellites can weigh well over a category can weigh less than one kilogram. One the CubeSat. Developed around the concept of CubeSats are designed to be modular and low-cost. being common sizes. Although they were initially evolved dramatically, and are now used for all scientific missions and technology demonstrations. will usually have the same seven fundamental on-board computer, the electrical power system, the propulsion system, the communications system, the mechanical structure. It needs to be strong as possible to save on launch costs. Engineers thorough analysis, and careful material that have good stiffness and strength properties and carbon-fibre reinforced polymers. Honeycomb sandwiched between thin Aluminum alloy or carbon equipment. One important factor when selecting where the vacuum of space causes materials to which can then condense on sensitive instruments, aluminum tend not to outgas significantly, from big structural parts all the way down need to be checked for outgassing. A process where the flight hardware is to accelerate outgassing before The satellite structure includes a separation adapter. The total volume of the satellite is the fairing of the launch vehicle. Deployable instrument booms and antennas to get around this introduces new possible points of failure. At the the brain that controls and coordinates all of the monitoring the health of the satellite through instruments and systems. The hardware is typically housed in an Aluminum alloy enclosure. One major their exposure to cosmic radiation, high-energy satellite, disrupt circuits and in the worst case dense with electronic components, is particularly relatively low in low earth orbit, satellites that pass through the Van Allen radiation belts, this engineers often use radiation-hardened the whole device--with layers of thick aluminum. manage the electrical power system that generates, the satellite. A one square metre area directly receive 1.3kW of solar power, so it's no surprise power for satellites is the use of solar arrays. but in many cases deployable panels are used the satellite to fit within the fairing of the solar arrays that can be pointed directly at the solar cells, constructed from multiple layers of are able to capture a wider range of wavelengths them more efficient. While orbiting the Earth, in Earth's shadow, where the solar arrays are unable to to carry batteries that are charged by the solar discharged to provide power during the eclipse. the satellite's power control unit, which in turn the charge level of the batteries, controls to ensure a stable power supply for all satellite Control system. It's used to determine and to a reference frame. This orientation is called monitoring and adjusting their attitude. This launch vehicle, when they may experience tumbling, But it's also important for normal operation. In payload at a specific location, point solar panels ground station. The attitude determination used to determine the current satellite necessary attitude adjustments. The strategy used the pointing requirements of the mission and the several different sensor types, because each one Inertial Measurement Unit that contains gyroscopes IMU provide a continuous measure of any changes to obtain good pointing knowledge because and they can drift over time, resulting in approach for precise attitude determination is to trackers. Star trackers provide highly accurate that can be used to periodically correct the gyroscopes. Depending on the mission requirements, 10 seconds to every 20 minutes. A star tracker and uses an algorithm to identify bright with a catalogue of known stars, allowing the Star trackers can be very accurate, but may not or if the satellite is spinning too fast because the captured image will be blurry. And are limited because they need to have a clear distortion. This all needs to be taken into Ultimately attitude sensors are selected based with less stringent pointing requirements might or magnetometers instead. Sun sensors are simple the attitude of the satellite relative to the sun. an orbit. And magnetometers, sometimes included in magnetic field surrounding the satellite. These expected magnetic field of the Earth, given the That covers attitude determination, but what use three-axis stabilisation, an approach to precisely control satellite orientation around wheel, which consists of a flywheel attached to rotational velocity of the reaction wheel causes in the opposite direction. A minimum of three give the satellite full three-axis control, the satellite attitude. One problem with reaction adjustments, the incremental increases in the close to its maximum allowable rotational speed. reaction wheels cannot be used as the only method alongside reaction wheels to control attitude, and wheels. A magnetorquer is essentially a a magnetic core. Passing current through the field interacts with Earth's magnetic field a control the satellite attitude, or if actuated be used to slow them down. Magnetorquers are But they only work in relatively low orbits where Another option is simply to control attitude by The propulsion system plays a crucial role in could be to move the satellite to a new orbit, performed to maintain an existing orbit. But Common methods for propulsion are cold gas propulsion. All work using the same principle - a nozzle. The simplest form of propulsion is expansion of a stored pressurised gas through an inert gas like nitrogen or helium. Valves, are used to monitor system pressure and control thrust can be generated with chemical propulsion, monopropellant system the propellant is a liquid, into contact with a catalyst. A pressurant, an the pressure that forces the propellant from the two propellants, a fuel and an oxidiser, which producing exhaust gases that are expelled through uses electrical energy to generate thrust. These gas like xenon--and then using electric and high velocities before expelling them through a on the thrust requirements and the mass of the offer high thrust, useful for large satellites. simpler system design. Electric propulsion has but is very efficient, requiring less propellant. simple design and precise control, making them the only way for the satellite to exchange system is of vital importance. It has two Tracking and Command. The downlink system is down to earth. The satellite uses its attitude towards a ground station, and start transmitting satellite - some transmit data once per orbit others transmit to multiple ground stations, same ground station continuously. Satellites electromagnetic waves. These are characterised X-rays, and high energy gamma rays are all just Satellite communications use electromagnetic the spectrum, mostly between 1 and 40 GHz. split into bands with designated names. As the but the data rates are also higher. And higher by atmospheric attenuation. The data transmitted which can have a value of either 1 or 0. To using electromagnetic waves, the data needs to sinusoidal electromagnetic wave that has a just discussed. This is done by changing in a process called modulation. Amplitude by changing the amplitude of the carrier wave. the carrier wave instead. And Phase Shift Keying rate communication links use one of the several provide high data throughput and low error rates. satellite by the transmitter hardware. It's then before arriving at the downlink antenna for by the ground station the signal is demodulated The other key element of the communications system which consists of a unit called the transceiver, uses some really clever engineering to fulfil its is what allows the operations team to control the ground station, demodulated by the TT&amp;C the on-board computer for implementation. The from various sensors on the satellite down to the components, the power levels in the batteries, or the Tracking function, that provides information ground station sends a signal to the satellite, The turnaround time provides an estimate of the station. And the Doppler effect frequency of the satellite. These two valuable pieces of position and trajectory of the satellite. many satellites also carry GPS receivers to effective monitoring of position and trajectory. are a fundamental part of any communications and sizes. To compare their performance it's called an isotropic antenna, that radiates Two points located the same distance from a same signal strength, regardless of where they're radiate nor receive power uniformly across all desirable to do so. Instead, real antennas are directions. This directionality can be visualised and is quantified by a parameter called gain. energy in a particular direction, relative to an of 1 in all directions, but a real antenna will and less than 1 in others. The total power focused in different directions. The antennas on for a specific task. Downlink systems use high into a narrow beam, enabling high data transfer control system can be used to direct this beam other hand prioritise reliable communications transmit small packets of data. They use low gain satellite can communicate with the ground station attitude control system isn't working properly. to impressive extremes in temperature. Surfaces especially with the lack of a protective plummeting as the satellite enters Earth's shadow. will be dissipating power, locally increasing the satellite temperature is a huge challenge. parts of the payload may need to be kept within and batteries or electrical components that limits are at risk of failure. Thermal control and some clever engineering, to maintain stable by convection in the vacuum of space, the only with the environment is by radiation. Radiators, are used to radiate heat from the satellite. from hot to cold areas. Thermostat-controlled to make sure certain components don't get too control temperature by reflecting solar radiation radiative heat losses when the satellite is in and phase change materials that absorb or release Even the attitude control system can contribute radiators and other surfaces are facing. All perfectly balancing absorbing, retaining and of the satellite stays within acceptable ranges. cost of launch, and technical barriers present overcome with clever engineering and extensive you're designing hardware destined for orbit, or having access to the right design tools is an why I'd like to introduce you to this video's CAD platform that makes it quick and easy to interface and intuitive set of tools, Onshape and producing drawings easy. And it all runs redefine what you come to expect from a CAD of mechanical design. It has detailed version and collaborative tools that allow multiple people you can access your files from anywhere just by One thing I love about Onshape is the emphasis it files from other users, which is a great way to like this detailed model of the Oresat satellite to understand the design process and how not sure where to start, there's loads of useful So why not give it a try - it's completely free. to create your free account and start exploring. that has even more advanced features like Thanks for watching!