At the age of 43, Tom retired through a combined effort of savings although, on the day when he didn't have a penny to his name. Tom graduated from the University of Michigan Like his father, he majored in He had landed a job at General Motors which everyone in his family Still, secretly Tom asked himself, Tom had always felt like he wanted something During the first weeks at General Motors, if anything, Tom met up with his supervisor, James, to earn himself a golden watch. James seemed proud of his watch, &quot;wow, he's still in the same place, doing the same It seemed James spent his days doing what Tom recognized this because, during lunch, not improvements of the assembly Tom had seen a similar who loved going on hikes yet could due to his busy working schedule. Ironically, making money seemed like This video will show you three stages that Tom You will see that different things are but please note one thing If Tom hadn't been investing, had he tried by only relying on his he would have shared this tale By investing, Tom earned 14 years of the most You will learn what Tom focused on what he focused on outside and, perhaps most importantly, This is the Swedish Investor, bringing you the best tips and tools through stock market investing. Stage 1: How Tom went from $0 to $20,000 This is really the &quot;getting started&quot; stage. Many of you have perhaps already and in that case, well done! Sit tight though - we will soon be During a day at the library - Tom had been who was stuck in quarantine - he stumbled over a copy of Yes, literally stumbled. While eyeing a cute redheaded and he scattered books all over the floor. The backside of The Richest &quot;... an assured road to happiness Huh, maybe this was just Tom borrowed the book. The redheaded clerk was still How embarrassing. She was even more adorable up this close. Tom hoped he would meet her again. &quot;Pay yourself first&quot;. The book advocated that Tom should each month before doing Clearly this was what his supervisor - he didn't pay himself first. He paid Sitka, Nightforce and The more Tom got to know James, he realized Not that there was anything it just didn't seem like a good recipe to become independent All we have to decide is what to do Now, this is the exact right thing - pay yourself first. The stock market is an excellent a decent chunk of money into However, it is not ideal for enlarging This early on your road you should deal with the stock market as have some eggs, a few meatballs, You can't theorize your way to you need to eat one. It's similar with stock If someone suggests you should on some simulator or something, tell them uh-uh. Do your best to steer clear of Tom learned this the hard way. After reading The Richest Man in Babylon he went on to Robert Kiyosaki's He was pretty disappointed that he didn't but at least he learned that the stock market is can be converted into &quot;assets&quot;. Without any former investing he soon found himself reading speculative It started off very well, $5,000 became $10,000 in just a week. But before long, he experienced what The little capital he had The fermented fish for Tom was He had just fallen off the into the &quot;valley of despair&quot; on Although Tom knew nothing he had learned Buffett's To never lose money. Actually, he had been so lucky that he learned To never forget rule #1. Even though the losses were they were tolerable Tom replaced his losses within Unlike a colleague at work, who had gone all-in (and in that, had an entire at least Tom wasn't out of the game. But he realized that the stakes would rise and that mistakes would become Therefore, Tom decided to Each time he had a meal at home, he would put up Each time he went for a walk, he would put on Slowly but surely, Tom was moving out of Tom managed to go from $0 - $20,000 - Saving $1,000 from his working as a junior engineer - Losing something like $2,000 by investing in and - Losing $1,000 in - yes- Tom was trading Tom can't be accused of having been so it was really the savings that carried him This time. Stage 2: How Tom went from When Tom began his third his father wanted to have No, not that talk! &quot;Tom, your mother and I are Do you want us to chip in and perhaps you could A luxury and an opportunity, but you'd be wrong. This is a trap. Tom didn't know anything but Munger would say: &quot;The first rule of compounding is Luckily, Tom did know who had written the book And Kiyosaki said: &quot;A house is a liability. So, Tom politely declined the offer and kept What characterises the second stage is that A good chunk of the $100,000 should - else you are doing more You might feel empowered by the fact that you are now But don't let this carry you So even though you can now afford a decent car like maybe the down payment on a house, don't celebrate too much just yet. You don't want to hinder now that it is just starting By the time Tom was 27, he was highly interested and He very well remembered the results from his a few years earlier and now only and could perform a back-of He did not try to make any brilliant but instead followed Buffett's mantra; I don't look to jump over 7-foot bars: I look around for 1-foot bars Tom's phone rang. It was Steven, the top of the class who had moved on to graduate with a major in Tom, I've just bumped into an You see, it's this startup. They're like the Walmart of the metaverse! Interesting, where's their P/E at? Tom, are you joking with me? P/E? This is a startup! Well, when do you expect that I don't know, does it matter? We will make a lot of money I'm putting in fifty grand, Tom trusted Steven, even looked up to him But this seemed out of line with what people who had Would Peter Lynch have jumped Go for a business that any idiot can run - because sooner or later, any idiot is Hmm, it didn't seem like any idiot could run Alright, I'll chip in something smaller. Can I join with $500? Ha! $500? Wuss! During this time, Tom tried to &quot;not be stupid&quot;, Tom just did a few things that others He knew it wasn't &quot;smart enough&quot; but he picked up Google's stock when the company some Microsoft on the same notion, and yep, some Walmart too. Price, price, price. He recognized that making mistakes would now be or even years on his road Tom also continued his learning regime. One day he was heading to the library again to pick up This time, he didn't just First - on the girl. Second - for the girl. It was the redheaded clerk again, and he tripped on her when while she was sorting books You're quite the cat! Always landing on your ... knees? she teased. Only seven lives to go! Did she remember him? Tom didn't know if that was good or bad, but he was From that day onward, he decided that reading is Peace and quiet, and, and ...! Eventually, he dared to ask They hit it off immediately. Sharing his interest in they would sometimes take turns They called these dates so one can imagine that they didn't However, that's where we stop because this is a PG-friendly Speaking about budgeting. Sarah was an orderly person, She was orderly about her expenses too, and it became their expenses Tom was lucky in this regard, and this change Sharing the rent on a home with even though they had to move Simultaneously, his responsibilities - he was no longer considered a junior. Tom managed to increase his savings from Also, he made quite average stock market and together, this turned him into an owner of Charlie Munger says: The first $100,000 is a bitch, I don't care what you have to do - if it means walking everywhere and not eating find a way to get your hands on $100,000. After that, you can ease off Tom had a fire in his gut because he saw that the What he didn't know was that he was going to lose Stage 3: How Tom zig-zagged from Do you hear that Tom?! It was Steven calling. No, I don't. What is ... Exactly! It's the sound of me driving It's so quiet, right? Wow, yea, it's really quiet! Did you get a promotion Steven? No. No. It's the startup - you know - WallMeta! They're going public! Alright, that's not how Tom but it is how his friend &quot;WallMeta&quot; made a 2400% and Steven was now the lucky Tom, who had invested $500, Even though $12,000 was just a little less than it stung a bit that he hadn't Ha! $500? Wuss! He tried to repeat a Warren Buffett &quot;Half of all coin-flippers none of those winnershas an expectation of profit Because how could Steven have known? He had never shown any particular interest in neither Tom really questioned if Steven would survive Another call with Steven would a call with a different outcome Tom was now in his early 30s, and it wasn't just Steven who did it Pretty much everyone at work seemed with their cars, their clothes, Basically, showing no signs of I'm not saying that an expensive but make sure you understand the Once you open the gate of your stock market account will you be able to close it again? Do not underestimate the power of habits. One part of Tom, perhaps ignored these rather extravagant and wanted him to stay &quot;Tom, remember James, you don't want to be But another part of him, wanted to show his male colleagues that that he too was successful. Because, after all, he couldn't exactly show them that would just be awkward ... wouldn't it? Not subtle enough ... He tried to remember something Something about that wealth is When you see someone who drives recognize that you are also witnessing So ... is it worth it? Tom liked the video for A true role model for us all. An unexpected event was going to help Right before he was about to turn 31, The S&amp;P 500 fell by more than Technically, this meant that Tom was back But Tom didn't fret. He had been mentally Just keep swimming, just keep swimming Tom didn't subscribe to but if he had, he would &quot;the bear case is the best case&quot;. Luckily, he did know about who obviously had better &quot;If you are shopping for common stocks, not the way you would buy perfume.&quot; And at that very moment, there were Tom knew that now was not now was the time to be picking up that pessimists couldn't While he usually made something he made 30% and 45%, in the two years Then, when Tom turned 33, His portfolio was now contributing more towards still with quite average stock His daughter had recently turned 2, and both Tom and Sarah felt like kids should so they decided to purchase one. The down payment was at $60,000, which $30,000 was a setback for Still, he remembered that even Warren Buffett back in 1958. And frankly, at this point, Tom felt like he had When Tom turned 35, he switched from as he was offered a 20% higher salary Even with this higher salary, his portfolio during some months Other months, he could be down by $20,000, making him feel discouraged. This is the period where your patience and will be tested the most. The additional deposits you make will not on the value of your portfolio. Making the wrong investment decisions and making the right ones Stay true to your process, though, and be careful with projecting those Tom did decide to stay and he made another contrarian decision as well. While many of his colleagues at Ford he dedicated those hours to And it paid off. Tom was slowly but surely becoming an investor An overperformance of 4% per year suddenly than the average investor with the same amount of The &quot;hourly wage&quot; from studying stock market and it just kept improving. Towards the end of this phase, Tom also started for photography. This was a hobby he had - when able to allocate time to it, that is. He created a small-scale Some small extra income would probably make it Stage 4: Tom's Financial Freedom Tom reached $1,000,000 to live off his investments More than half of that money came and his investments helped him 14 years earlier than his salary With this type of money Tom was could cover his yearly expenses. Tom is now spending more time doing investing in the stock market, going on hikes, trying to improve his photoskills, and especially - spending more time and being an even better dad! He even decided to become 'Cause a man who doesn't spend time All-in-all, Tom is now earning plenty of money, while doing And then he decided to call Steven, whom hehadn't heard much to tell him about the good news. Hey Steven, do you hear that? Hey Tom, long time. No, what is ... Exactly! That's the sound of us, not working, Am I right? For some reason, the joke Hey man, what's up? Tom, you know how WallMeta Yes? Well, I retired with that money. I know that Steven. Well, then I took that money and I put it Oh, horrible name. Yea, I know, but they said that they were And you know, I trusted those guys, My boss really wasn't happy when I said Anyways, my retirement is nowhere in sight. Unless I can find What's extraordinary Well, maybe nothing, Many of you can probably earn more Many of you can probably get better returns If the normal guy Tom can reach financial A story that is a little less ordinary is and how he made his first Check it out! Cheers guys!