MICHELLE THALLER: Is time real or is it an Well, time is certainly real but the question And it may surprise you that physicists don't JAMES GLEICK: Physicists argue about and physicists there such a thing as time. And it's also something that has a traditional But, I think it's fair to say that in one How can you say time doesn't exist when we of all. And second of all we're talking about it constantly. I mean we couldn't get, I can't get through I was going to say we couldn't get through So, obviously when a physicist questions the specialized, something technical. BILL NYE: Notice that in English we don't It's unique. It's this wild fourth dimension in nature. This is one dimension, this is one dimension, dimension. And we call it the fourth dimension not just I worked on four dimensional autopilots so it is above sea level and then when you want Like you can't get there at any time. GLEICK: Einstein or maybe I should say more offers a vision of space-time as a single the past and the future are just like spatial They're just like north and south in the equations And so you can construct a view of the world can say, and physicists do say something very of physics there is no distinction between And so if you're playing that game you're thing doesn't exist. Time is just another dimension like space. Again, that is in obvious conflict with our We go through the day acting as though the and it might happen this way or it might happen We could flip a coin and see. We tend to believe in our gut that the future from the past. DEAN BUONOMANO: If the flow if time, if our illusion we have this clash between physics in physics is that we live in the block universe. And I should be clear. There's no consensus. There's no 100 percent agreement. But the standard view in physics is that, that we live in an eternalist universe, in and future is equally real. So, this raises the question of whether we flowing. NYE: In my opinion time is both subjective What we do in science and engineering and as we can because it's so important to our You go to plant crops you want to know when You want to know when to harvest them. If you want to have a global positioning system the street you're on, from your phone you passage of time that you might be familiar surface, and the passage of time as it's affected of time as it's affected by the gravity of relativities. It's astonishing. We work very hard to measure time with all no question with our brains which are wet We don't know if sometimes it feels short, nature I think of being constrained by measuring This is why we build instruments to measure BUONOMANO: The brain has been telling time So even plants have the ability to tell time So it's reasonable to ask so is that how the Does the brain have some oscillator that's those ticks and tocks. The answer is no. The brain seems to have fundamentally different So the first thing to notice is that while quartz watch, can tell time across a vast to hours, minutes and days and months and So, the brain has many different clocks in and to tell the time of day. So one way to think about it is the Circadian of day it is and when to rise and when to That doesn't have a minute hand, much less In contrast, the clock that tells you, the hmm, this red light is taking a bit too long This traffic light is taking a bit long to That clock doesn't have an hour hand, much So the brain has different areas, different We don't understand, fully understand how is or when the red light is going to change. But it doesn't seem to have to do with any It seems to do with neural dynamics which are coupled to each other, neurons are connected And when you activate some neurons that group which can activate another group of neurons. So you can have these evolving patterns of So, this is consistent with what we call the doesn't have any master clock. It has many different circuits, each specialized scale or another. THALLER: One thing we are absolutely sure Time is not just simply a progression like It can change depending on how fast you're special Theory of Relativity. The idea is that the faster you go, the slower observers look at you going by. As you go faster and faster and approach the more. And the amazing thing is that at the speed There are more everyday applications to this For example, the global positioning satellites your smartphone. Those satellites are going overhead very, They're going nearly 20,000 miles an hour. And it turns out that that's fast enough that They're actually in a slightly different timeframe And we have to account for that. We have to correct for that mathematically. Otherwise, you would not get the right location. So, we know that time slows down. We observe this happening all around us. It was a really hard thing in modern physics go of the idea that time just has a rate that That, in fact, it can flow at different rates Then there's the question of what is time And you may have heard that Einstein talked He didn't believe that space and time were We certainly perceive them differently in We can move through space, but time always But Einstein thought they were part of a fabric, And one of the ways he illustrated this was they always kind of balance out. If I am not moving through space, I'm sitting to go forward at a natural rate and time just But if I start going faster and faster, my So, in a sense I'm moving through space very as I might have. The two balance each other, space-time. If you move through space very fast time begins And now something gets even stranger and that of the universe, the Big Bang, created all whole something. So every point in the past and every point of time you feel yourself in right now. Einstein believed that literally. One of his best friends died and he wrote how his friend still exists. Time is a landscape and if you had the right all of it laid out in front of you. All past, present, and future as a whole thing. And he said, you know, your husband, my friend, He's still there. We can't see him where we are now, but we exists just as much as he ever has. Einstein believed that you right now had been been born yet. That everything that's happened to you if universe you could see all at once. BUONOMANO: The present is the notion is that The past was real, the future some configuration now only the present is real. In contrast the opposing view is called eternalism. Eternalism you have the past, present and So, that makes the present just an arbitrary So one way to think about this is now is to So in the same sense that I happen to be here in space and we're all comfortable with that real, in eternalism you have to be comfortable are as equally real as this moment in time GLEICK: And so if a physicist comes to me Face it, the future looks different from the it's the same. I at least acknowledge that I have an obligation And physicists do argue about these things THALLER: So modern physics has required us that just flows. We can measure that it's changing around us accelerators, anything going fast. And it may be that space and time are the all exists all at once.