The last British royal wedding -- between together 1,900 guests, many of whom were pretty Footballer David Beckham was there with Elton John was there too. But this photo might be the most impressive This is the Queen of Spain Next to the Princess of Sweden, the former King of Greece is behind them, And way back there is the former King of Romania. They were invited because they're all related Queen Victoria. Over the course of her 63-year reign, she descendants in royal families all over Europe. And in doing so, created one of the most remarkable By the early 19th century, Europe had been After the French Revolutionary and Napoleonic together to restore peace by reshaping major Great Britain went on to become one of the And years later, Queen Victoria and her husband political power: They married their children And at that time, you know, all royal marriages cementing political allegiances, about building It started with their daughter Vicky, the She married the heir to the Prussian throne, Albert's vision had always been, and Victoria shared it, that Prussia of all the German states was the one that would end up leading They wanted to build strong connections with good and constitutional benign Their children Alice, Beatrice, Helena, Leopold, Their eldest son, Prince Albert Edward married Greece; two more important European states. But when their son Alfred wanted to marry a bit more complicated: There was a long history about Russia, for any of her children marrying into Well, the Russian monarchy was an autocracy, whereas the British monarchy as such was There was a whole long period of Russophobia The two states were also extremely competitive where they fought a bloody war in the But the marriage was allowed and by the 1880s important branches of Europe's monarchies. But did that bring peace to Europe? Not quite. See, Germany did unify in 1871, but it wasn't peaceful. Prussia fought a series of bloody wars and In Russia, the royal Romanov family was losing Members of the monarchy were being hunted The royal unions didn't play out as Queen more matches anyway. She had 42 grandchildren in total, and these 7 ended The eldest, Wilhelm II, who was already in a German princess in 1881. The hope was that he would steer a unified into an alliance with Great Britain. George was in line to be the King of Great family member. Alexandra married Nicholas, who was related Tsar and Tsarina of Russia. And four more granddaughters married European I mean, when you look at Queen Victoria by she really was the grandmother of Europe. Take for example this family photo, where the rulers of Germany. Her son, Britain's next king, and her granddaughters, the future Tsarina of Russia and future Queen of Romania. Here's the soon-to-be King of England and of Russia. And here's some of the children and grandchildren Finally, this is King Edward of Great at Queen Victoria's funeral in 1901. After her death, the family ties that Queen bring peace, but the most destructive war The Kaiser, the king of Gothenberg, make ready to sweep the field. The Tsar of Russia mobilizes. England joins the battle royale. World War One broke out in 1914 and split Wilhelm's Germany along with Austria-Hungary led by Britain, Russia and France. These countries were neutral. Say Victoria had lived 'til we were on the I think it would have broken her, totally broken to know that her grandchildren ended up at war with each other. The war killed over 10 million people and Wilhelm, Sophia, and Marie were all forced Revolution swept through Russia and Alexandria The British monarchy survived, but the war George, King George V, and his wife They saw that the monarchy had to be more not just sitting there in great robes in glory. You know, with their crowns on. Had to be much more out on the street, hands-on, meet the people, The kind of monarchy we now have with Queen Elizabeth. That approach not only helped modernize British but it also changed the face of royal weddings, forever.