(electronic music) - There's often more than one way to play some of our favorite games, how deep the rabbit hole actually goes. There are secret systems and game modes that completely We got 10 cool games that so let's just get started In a game that's already the Unlockable Engineer of the biggest in &quot;Remnant 2.&quot; It's also found right at the start, so you can start playing around with this overpowered class pretty early. Now, Remnant 2, if you don't know, is kind of randomly generated and unlockable classes. I'm paraphrasing, but yeah, those classes kind of completely change how you'll play and the engineer class gives and these cool deployable turrets that just kind of shred enemies. (gun firing) (firing continues) - Wait (indistinct). - How anyone figured this Basically, on one specific map there's an area outside the and collect a unique item - You know what this is? Maybe (indistinct). - This component can be which unlocks the engineer. Finding it is ridiculously hard, even if you know where to look. The thick fog outside the map and it's extremely toxic to You'll die whenever the meter is filled, no poison, just instant death. So that means you'll to run over to the item and grab it, which you won't be able to see from the edge of the map This is one alternate play without a guide handy, but (gun firing) (characters grunting) (firing continues) - Come on! (gun firing) - Come on, come on. - Now, I've written number nine. One of the more fun uses in recent memory is Infernax. It has an entirely alternate way to play if you use this infamous sheet. So started from the beginning, obviously, the Konami code is a in many old Konami games, especially the Contra series on NES. The code became so famous, you'll find it referenced We probably didn't need to explain it. I felt a little awkward doing that, but like, anyway, even if with the code, you probably heard of it, and the Konami code here in Infernax by putting up-up, down-down, left-right, you'll unlock a guy with a machine gun that replaces your default (electronic music) Being able to blast how you'll play the game, and gun through hordes You die in a single hit, but you start the game with 30 lives. Like in Contra, you'll respawn This is a totally different experience and we can't get enough We absolutely want more game developers to add big change ups (electronic music continues) Now, over at number eight, the The stock market, it's and playing the numbers can Kind of like in real life. Some players swear that assassinations or constant robberies will letting you play the stocks from your criminal escapades. Stocks are tracked from two and every major company has a rival, so you can buy or sell stocks whenever you wanna earn a quick profit, or watch the weekly predictions and try to plan for a big payday. The stock market is a that's also totally and sometimes makes no sense. After thorough research it isn't exactly clear that any of the information Even the website stock tickers and market value numbers Maybe that makes the stock market in GTA 5 even more realistic. Nobody has any clue what they're doing and everyone is just collectively hoping for the best while If you're a gambling gamer, you might get hopelessly addicted to playing the stock market and just imagine what we'll get in GTA 6. Will stock trading become Maybe it'll have crypto. Maybe you could start your There are so many ways we in video games that rockstar Next over at number seven, shifting gears quite a bit, &quot;Bug Fables.&quot; This is a charming little after Paper Mario that has but if you're feeling there's a diabolical Instead of like leveling up like normal, you'll earn no EXP from Yes, that's what they're calling it. By inputting this like when starting a new with a lot of special modifiers. In this mode, you won't To level up, you'll need to Basically, you'll need to totally changing how you'll play. You'll need to collect items and sell while stockpiling cash And money isn't easy to so you'll have to start to collect plenty of berries. Fighting enemies isn't good enough, and the enemies get tougher This small change totally alters the tempo of like a very charming kitty like RPG, and shows how a small a second play through feel like a totally new experience. (playful electronic music) Now, next over at number six, we've all played and hundreds of hours of and there's one way to play that, honestly, we didn't know existed. You can actually create a complex web of goblin warfare in the There are seven goblin tribes that will go to war with and this mechanic isn't And that's the other thing. Who even like knew the goblins had tribes? In the open world map, there with their own chieftain. If you take the sacred from a tribe, and plant tensions will build until in your sector. Dropping the staff anywhere and their chieftain to literally raiding the area to get the staff back. Normally, they don't face any resistance, but if they enter another the battle keeps going until This is kind of like sort of the Civil War in Skyrim, but the Oblivion system and prone to weird bugs. The system exists in Oblivion kind of way, but it's still You can swap around the staff and watch goblins just Other players have reported that the goblin spawning becomes The game will start chugging as more and more goblins just trying to win this infinite war against several tribes the same time, grab staffs and spread with one of the weirdest systems in one of the biggest games ever. We absolutely love it. (creatures squealing) Now, next over at number It's this rogue-like card game adventure where you move your and defeat different opponents At least it starts that way. Maybe light spoiler alert here, but in the style of secret there's so much more to What starts out as a becomes something much weirder, mutating into like this as you just go deeper and To progress past the you'll have to follow a Finding the special dagger item that give you clues to your next steps. You'll need to earn the camera and film, and then after taking the and actually explore the cabinet area that kind of just seemed for a card game. Yes, this game has 3D It's like playing Belatro and then discovering like a is inside of it, and it There are more cards and but the later game is hijacked by a totally different game master and you'll reach a totally which you'll also be You can play this game or you could play it how kind of like an ARG in disguise, (eerie music) Now, over at number four, &quot;Call of Duty.&quot; It's one of the biggest and despite that grueling sometimes the developers still with secrets and weird bonus modes. One of the biggest examples The earliest zombie maps survival, but eventually, they transformed into secret quests with hidden objectives. They became more about They had tasks you needed to complete to fight end-game bosses with like these full For a brief moment, also, zombies became part of the campaign. In Black Ops 3, after you'd unlock an additional This bonus mode completely swapping out soldiers for zombies. You can even play this mode cooperatively so then you and a friend can of the undead while completing levels in pretty familiar locations. Zombies join human to make this one of the weirdest, craziest campaigns in And it's all a bonus mode we've never heard anyone This mode has power ups dropped by enemies and a mystery box you can open It's like one of the in any mainstream shooter, and it's the only campaign remix in the entire series, really. I mean, yes, there's arcade mode for the original Call of Duty but Nightmares mode here has told through these voiceovers. That's a lot of work like a forgotten game mode, but it's cool. (metal slashing) (creature groaning) Now, of course, at number three, one of the most famous to play a game in video games in &quot;Castlevania: Symphony of the Night.&quot; By starting a new game you'll have a powerful He's a badass and he plays Instead of unlocking new abilities through exploration like Alucard, Richter has all his skills and many of them aren't (gun firing) You'll need to use some to traverse every area and Richter can also be His item crash abilities but he can't access and he doesn't even have a story. Another weird mode that is the old axe armor. By using the gravity you can obtain a special set of armor that transforms Alucard into The armor is slaw and can barely jump but it's also immune to and deals high damage with this big axe. It's just a weird little to experience in one And number two, man, &quot;The Witness&quot; just chews your brain When The Witness, this puzzle we had piles of notes and and just a whole different There's so much to and some of the biggest puzzles are right in front of And we're not even talking at the start of the game, there are dozens of puzzles hidden in You're not just drawing You can solve puzzles cut You're free to open up your white icon and start drawing lines to anything that looks like a circle. By lining up the world in just the right way, the true secrets of the island. You thought this was a challenging puzzles on square boards? No, there's an entire world of puzzles that some people really It only takes a couple to really figure it out, and there are so many more we missed. (light scratching) (loud rumbling) I'm down at number one, one but some context first. Sometimes Star Wars games, they make the lightsaber feel like this glorified wiffle ball bat. You're swinging your sword and you're just kinda whacking 'em and sending 'em flying Shouldn't you be slicing and Everybody asks this question, and Jedi Knight 2, Jedi with one of our favorite By putting the code in you'd upgrade your light saber, adding far more and chopping up enemies in a single hit even if you throw the lightsaber. This is a totally a because your enemies can also slice you up in a single attack too. The realistic lightsaber cheat completely changes how Hilariously, even your own lightsaber can kill player character Kyle Katarn, if you're not careful. Throwing your lightsaber like when that spinning blade comes flying right back at you. And Jedi Outcast is packed and like Sith Acolytes, so every encounter with them becomes a life or death duel. The right swing will put 'em down for good and you can defend yourself by deflecting their lightsaber strikes. But screw up and Mr. Katarn in half torso like a lot of his enemies. It's cool though. This cheat is so well remembered. Mods for Jedi Survivor, that realistic lightsaber There's something so fun about with one single aspect that Lightsaber is both and we wouldn't have it any other way. Now, those are 10 of our favorite games you can play totally differently. We didn't even get to talk about all of our favorite alternate like dueling with tipping vehicles or halo or spawning enemies and watching There are so many weird secret modes and hidden features in games. We wanna know some of your Be sure to hit us up. If you like talking click on the like it helps us out. Thank you. But as always, thank you for watching, and we'll see you next time.