What happened to dad? Don't ask any more questions. Hurry up and pack your bags and get ready to escape. What 's going on? Don't ask any more questions. Hurry up and pack your bags and run for your life. Hurry up. Where are you going ? Hahahaha. Father and daughter . Prisoner Meng Yuanan is with Yunzhou private guard Lan Tao. She harbored a murderer with the intention of treason and was sentenced to beheading her father's family members, Meng Fan, and the Meng family sisters knowingly refused to report the crime. They were sentenced to death with a cane, Mr. Chai. When I first saw Lan Tao, his head had already been chopped off by the official. I was just covering it up at the time. I don't know this martial artist at all . I saw that Lan Tao's descendants were really pitiful , so I made some leftovers to satisfy their hunger . So, do you admit the crime of An Kong? Do you admit it ? Sir, we are not rebelling. I don't want to die, my daughter . I don't want to die . Dad did something wrong. A good person has harmed you two sisters. Dad has always taught us that there is nothing wrong with being a good person. My daughter is right. There is nothing wrong with being a good person. With your words, daddy will be relieved, daddy, I will leave my sister to you, daddy, Fang'er, you have to take good care of her. Dare you , daddy, daddy, daddy, keep beating me , ah, ah, ah, ah , ah , ah, sister , ah, ah, sister.A Mei Mei Jie Jie A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A Kuai Kuai Kuai Bie Kuai Zou Bie Guo Lai Zou Zou Zou Zhua Wo Gan Shi Yao Fang Kai Wo Fang Kai Wo Fang Kai Wo Wei Shi Yao Zhua Wo Gan Shi Yao Zhua Wo Fang Kai Wo Fang Let me go, let me go, go, go, go, why don't you hit me, let me go , let me go, Xiao Fu , Xiao Fu, how are you ? Xiao Fu , you are Meng Fan , he is Meng Fu , this is Eunuch Mo, who saved your lives. Eunuch is from the palace. From now on , as long as you listen to your father-in-law, you can not only survive, but also enjoy the glory and wealth. Do you understand? We don't want to go to the palace. They say that the palace is not a place for people. If you two want to go back and continue to be tortured, then the palace is yours. The only way out. If you want to enter the palace, just put a fingerprint next to your name. Sister , if you don't want sister , let's go to the palace. I do n't have a father anymore. I don't want to be without you. I don't want to die. Sister, sister, let's attack together . Sister , sister , Yuexiu , Yuexiu, hurry up and open the door. Yuexiu. Who is it ? Open the door quickly. Open the door. Hurry up , Yue Xiu. Oh, you fell so hard. Come on, open the door. Get up, open the door. Get up, come on. Come on! Come on ! Come on! Come on ! Come on! Oops! Oops! Something serious has happened. The emperor is dying. The doctors have all gone to the ministers in the court. Everyone has arrived at the Palace of Eternal Life. Hurry up and prepare for the funeral. Otherwise, it will be too late. There are still many things to do. I'll leave first. Oh, oh, oh , oh, oh , has something happened to Aunt Yuexiu ? Oh, your Majesty, the Emperor is reporting the news that Eunuch Mo has brought to the court. The minister has arrived at the Palace of Eternal Life. Let us prepare to send blessings. You hurry up and get them up to send blessings. Oh, boss , get up, get up, get up, get up, get up, get up, get up, get up, get up, get up, get up, everyone. Come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, oh, the emperor is critically ill. Let us hurry up and deliver mourning clothes. Get up , hurry up, know, move, move, move quickly, get up, get up, get up, get up, get up, get up, get up, get up, get up. Come on, come on, get up, get up, get up, get up, get up, oh, what's the matter, Xiao Fu, please get up, don't sleep, Xiao Fu, come on, get up, what 's the matter , get up, the emperor is critically ill, everyone, get up, get dressed, we're all right I am going to send mourning clothes to the critically ill emperor. How could he be critically ill? Yesterday morning, he was still fine. Oh, what the hell is going on? Don't ask. There will be no false news about the imperial doctor. If anything happens to the emperor, Sanfu cannot deliver it to the court officials in time. This is a crime to be punished by death. Come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, give this letter to the Rainforest Army. Lieutenant Zuo , don't let anyone find out . Go quickly! It's Fifth Brother. It's really strange. Last night, he was very excited and asked us to sing a new song for him tomorrow. Why did he become critically ill all of a sudden ? The Emperor is not the birth of Maitreya. Now the Emperor is 80 years old. What happened? It can't happen. If something happens to him, how will we two brothers survive? What should the fifth brother do? Now we can only take one step at a time. Hey, I have sent someone to deliver a letter to Captain Zuo asking him to send all the information. The Yulin Army has been transferred to the Palace of Eternal Life to keep watch . But Wu Sansi has the military power. Li Dan and his son regard you and me as sharp thorns in their eyes. Can the Yulin Army stop it? Listen, hide this knife. If something happens, Wu Sansi is fine. Li Whether it's the prince or the capture of a human being, as long as he can escape from the palace, he will have a life-saving knife . Oh, it's obvious that the emperor is critically ill . How can you not stay by his side as the prince? I won't go. I, I really don't want to go . The imperial doctor has come here to urge me several times. If I don't rush over right away, it will be too late. Even if I get sick, I can't go. I can't go to the Hall of Eternal Life. You must know that you are the Crown Prince, the Crown Prince, the Crown Prince . What kind of Crown Prince am I? He didn't like me at all. Not only did he depose me , but he also demoted me to house arrest in the prefecture, sent me to Beijing and Bozhou, and returned to the palace. He also trapped me in this dark cage and listened to the new post of Zhang Changzu and the two-faced beast. It is slanderous that killing my own son and daughter, the crown prince , is really inappropriate. I cannot go to the Palace of Eternal Life. Wu Sansi , Zhang brothers, Li Dan, and their wives are all eyeing for status. I have no power or soldiers. As long as my emperor lets go, they will definitely kill me, the prince. I really don't want to go to the Palace of Eternal Life, which has been torn into pieces . But if I don't go to the Palace of Eternal Life, if the emperor gets better, he will definitely punish us. Then it will be really worse than death. If you go, you will die if you don't go. You name it? What should I do? I don't know what to do. I only know that you will die like a prince . Just let me find a chance to turn around. I swear, I swear, I will take back everything I lost . It's okay. Princess, princess , princess, why are you so panicked ? There is news that the emperor is critically ill. Princess , the palace has already started ringing bells and delivering talismans. Our mother and emperor are blessed by gods and Buddhas , so how can anything happen? But princess , you have to go to the palace. Please call the imperial doctor for me immediately . Just tell me. The princess is sick . The two princes don't know how the emperor's holy body is . The imperial doctor is doing their best to treat her. I don't know the specific situation of Princess Taiping. Princess Taiping is ill and can't get out of bed. I think she can't come. It's really shocking that five girls are seriously ill at the same time. People are worried. Come on, call Eunuch Zheng. What does this mean ? Of course, it is to protect the emperor. Zuo Xiaowei. If any rebellious ministers and traitors want to take the opportunity to rebel , they will be killed without mercy. My father did not get the emperor's order, but he is good at mobilizing the Yulin army. I think they were the first to rebel against Cao. Otherwise, we should mobilize our troops to attack immediately. Is n't it the right time ? But if the emperor is really like him, it's not the right time . Do you understand what dad means? Do you understand Aunt Yuexiu , why Mr. Yulin and the others are in the Palace of Eternal Life? This is all the masters' business and has nothing to do with us. You can handle it yourself. Just do your duty well. You listen to my command. The name of the court official is written on this piece of paper. You listen to my order and deliver this mourning dress to the designated court official. It must not be later or sooner than later. Who is King Li Longji of Linzi ? Ah, I haven't seen him. King Linzi has been in Chang'an for the past few years. He just came back a few days ago. No wonder you don't know that the young man standing in the front row is him. Remember, sister , he looks like a talented sister. You got a good draw. Do n't talk nonsense. You don't even look at the occasion. Is there anything good or bad to sign? You all listen to me. Everyone, cheer up. I didn't say anything. No one can step outside the court door , otherwise disaster will come. I heard that No Xiufu cheered up, come on, come on, come on, come on, Wu Sansi, what do you mean ? King Changzong Liang , this is the inner courtyard of the palace. The emperor has decreed that all officers and soldiers except the Yulin Army should enter. You openly led these soldiers in. Doesn't the palace take the emperor's words seriously? The situation is critical. The emperor is suddenly seriously ill. I am afraid that some rebellious ministers will die and cause trouble . Don't you see that the Yulin Army is here? I am afraid that the Yulin Army will be defeated by the rebellious ministers , so I have to lead the troops forward. Come on, don't worry , Your Majesty. I will explain it myself, so you don't have to worry about it . The imperial army has been controlled by the traitor. Who is the traitor you are talking about? I don't know. I only know that as the emperor's nephew, I have a responsibility. During his serious illness, Protect him through the crisis. Whoever dares to stop him is a traitor. Immediately guard all key points in the Changsheng Palace for me. If there is any obstruction , I will cut off all the joints. I didn't expect this to be the case. Dad wants to see them fighting with their friends. No, we can't. He is a capable fisherman. The Ye Lin Army listens to orders and kills anyone who dares to approach the emperor's palace without mercy . Do you two brothers want to stop me? Since we are all guards, no one can stop anyone. Xiaofu Xiaofu invites King Xiang , King Linzi, King Liang and his son. Duke Zhang Guo is waiting in front of the palace to meet the emperor . His excellent aunt, Eunuch Du, has chosen Wang Jianjia. Is the emperor's condition improved ? Is it to see the emperor for the last time ? If the emperor is real , will they fight in the Palace of Eternal Life ? What will we do? Yes , do what you have to do. You do n't have to worry about the rest. You can't control it. Princess Taiping is ill and has not come. The prince is nowhere to be seen. Who said he didn't come? I am here to report to the prince, princes and the two princes and the imperial doctor that the emperor's condition is unstable . I ask you all to wait for me in front of the palace. Do you understand what I mean? That old man will retire first and be prepared. Meow meow Aoki had known that our emperor was safe and sound . What should I do now ? Just wait and see what happens. Be prepared. I'll go as soon as I tell you. Send Sanfu out immediately. How is the imperial doctor 's condition ? The emperor's illness is no longer serious. Ah , oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, my lord , don't be afraid. Act like nothing has happened . Sister Si, leave and stop. What does this mourning dress mean? It's disrespectful to the emperor. Take it, yeah ah ah Ahhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhh , stop , 30 lashes each are enough. Don't beat the person to death. Thank you for your kindness in sparing your life. Please bless me for your promotion and fortune . Lu Fan will definitely keep this in mind. I am also following the rules. Do you want to do things on your heart, do n't remember whether the two want to drink something, hahaha , let them drink a full, hahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahaha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha, cough, cough , this is not water, this is oil , why do you force us? Drinking oil is because you haven't finished the punishment you should bear. Bring it up, hahaha . Didn't you just say you wouldn't kill us? Of course you didn't kill you just now. Otherwise, how could you let you swallow this corpse's soul? Haha. Haha, we sisters didn't commit any serious crime. We just sent the wrong funeral blessings. It's not a serious crime. It's not a crime worthy of death. It's not a serious crime to send funeral blessings to the emperor. The emperor is resting well. What kind of crime is it for you to give mourning clothes to court officials ? This is a serious crime of death by a thousand cuts. Pry open their mouths. No, no, no, no, hahahahahaha. Stop . Hey, Eunuch Du , what's the matter with you? Please come here . I'm here for your business, Mr. Luo. I have it. What's going on? The emperor has just recovered from a serious illness and is in a good mood . He just received the prince and all the princes. In order to accumulate virtue for the emperor, the county prince swore not to eat meat or kill on July 7th. The emperor did not follow the filial piety of the county prince and ordered everyone in the palace to fast for 49 days. I don't know about killing . That's why I came to tell you. If you let them eat these two iron balls, it will not only kill the souls of these two babies, but also kill them both . Isn't this a big enough crime ? Oh, let go. Let him go, let him go, hurry up, hurry up, let him go, let him go, hurry up, oh, this Aunt Du, you, oh, oh, let me say whatever I want, you and I are really all right, oh, my child, Xiaofu, poor child, are you all right? Thank you, Aunt Yuexue, for today. I also want to thank the county prince. He persuaded Eunuch Du to come and intercede for you. My sister, the farmer, knows it's wrong. It's okay, sister . It 's okay. Sister, I promise you that I will be very cautious in what I do in the future. Don't worry. Oh, why are you still not leaving ? Come on, hurry up . If you pass, you should be scolded. Move quickly. Hurry up. Sister Xiaofan, this is here . Thank you for your mask . You're welcome. I'm leaving now . Come on, hurry up. Come on, hurry up. What's wrong with you? You two have recovered. Let's rest for one more day. No, we are fine. We have to get out of bed and stretch after being in bed for so long. Thank you, Mr. Shang Gong. You are really well. Then listen to me. You are not allowed to give me any more in the future. I'm in trouble, please go to the palace. Damn it, you girl. Come on and dress up quickly. Well, don't move. Slow down. I'll go ahead. I'll go ahead. I'm leaving. Sister Fu, I know what you're going to say to me . Don't mess with me. Please , haha, please be good , eh, I'm leaving. Hey, hey, I heard that the emperor didn't go to court today. It seems that his illness last time has not healed yet . I think the emperor is blessed with great fortune. It won't take long for his illness to be cured . But this time The Turks and Tibetans raised troops together, but the emperor did not go to court . The ministers in the court were so frightened that their legs and feet were weak. Thinking back to those days, I didn't realize that the Khitan invaded one after another , and the emperor was defeated and fled back to his hometown. I heard that they had an invading force this time. Not as much as last time. As long as the emperor's illness is cured, they will withdraw obediently. I really start to believe that the emperor is the birth of Maitreya Buddha. I don't believe it. The deposed prince seized the throne. I heard that he eliminated dissidents in order to consolidate his power. The abuse of torture killed many loyal ministers and caused countless unjust deaths of people all over the world. How could such an emperor be born as Maitreya Buddha ? What are you talking about? Don't talk nonsense. Zhang Shanggong , you are the only one who talks too much.