Running us right now is James Cameron Diver, Explorer, director of The Abyss, a deep sea thriller, and most famously, of course, Titanic, as well as well as many other great films. James, I appreciate you joining us. Someone who's devoted his life to exploration, as you have in many ways under the sea and wondering what is going through your mind tonight. Well, thanks, Anderson. I mean, obviously, we're all we're all kind of heartsick from the outcome of this. And I've been living with it for a few days now as some of my other colleagues in the deep submergence community I was out on a ship myself when the event happened on Sunday. The first I heard of it was Monday morning. I immediately got on my network because it's a very small community in the deep submergence group and found out some information within about a half hour that they had lost comms and they had lost tracking simultaneously. The only scenario that I could come up with in my mind that could account for that was it was an implosion, a shockwave event so powerful that it actually took out a secondary system that has its own its own pressure vessel and its own battery power supply, which is the transponder that the ship uses to track where the sub is. So I was thinking implosion then. That's Monday morning. I got on the horn again with some other people, tracked down some intel that was probably of a military origin, although it could have been research because there are hydrophones all over the Atlantic and got confirmation that there was some kind of loud noise consistent with an implosion event. That seemed to me enough confirmation that I let all of my inner circle of people know that we had lost our comrades. And I encourage everybody to to raise a glass in their honor on Monday. Then I watched over the ensuing days this whole sort of everybody running around with their hair on fire search, knowing full well that it was futile, hoping against hope that I was wrong, but knowing in my bones that I wasn't. And so it certainly wasn't a surprise today. And I just feel terrible for the families that had to go through all of these false hopes that kept getting dangled, you know, as it played out. You've I just want to to you said it was on Monday that you learned of these these listening devices underwater had picked up the sound of an implosion or what was believed. Yeah, that's that's as it came to me. Now, that's hearsay. Multiple, you know, they were credible sources. So, you know, I took that as a factor that I multiply it in with the other factors. And I couldn't think of any other scenario. In which a sub would be lost where it lost comms and navigation at the same time and stayed out of touch and did not surface. I was also told, and I don't have confirmation on this, that they had they were on descent. There were a couple hundred meters above the sea floor and they dropped their weights. Now, the only way for the ship to know that they had dropped their ascent way to be an emergency aboard is if they had called that in, that they were they were ascending. So I, I believe now that they had some warning that they heard some acoustic signature of the hull beginning to laminate. An investigation will hopefully eventually show what what did happen because we all need to know as we go forward, the deep submergence community needs to know exactly what happened You've made dozens of I mean, just extraordinary deepwater expeditions, including more than 32. The Titanic cell itself you've also gone far deeper than the 13,000 feet where the Titanic is. I think you've gone deeper than just about anybody into the ocean. I wrote it into I forgot the name of the place you went, the challenger deep. Which Challenger did you went in your own design. Yeah. You went in your own designed craft. That's a submersible that was experimental and didn't go through the sort of the standard safety protocols. But the difference is you were not taking passengers on board. Would you ever have taken passengers on board a submersible that had not gone through the standard maritime safety protocols? No, not at all. I mean, my sub that I went to the to the Challenger Deep dove safely three times deeper than then Titanic. We made multiple dives in that in that sub. That sub was a single seater and it was only contemplated that myself and the engineer with whom I co-designed the vehicle would be the only pilot of that sub. And we worked on it for seven years. We knew every detail of it intimately. I was involved in every phase of the testing. So, you know, I assessed the risks. I understood them very well. And those were risks I was willing to take. I would never take it upon myself to ask someone else to take that type of risk. And if I were designing a multi seat vehicle where I intended to be the pilot, we'd go through all of the rigorous test protocols and review protocols that you have with, let's say, Airbus, which is the American Bureau of Shipping or DMV or German Lloyd's, who are the major bureaus that the Class A sub, they call it classing, but it's basically certification. And I think it was unconscionable that that this group did not go through that rigorous process What is you know, this was a an experimental design. There's no question about it. It's a carbon composite. You can tell us more about what that actually means. I mean, it's the kind of stuff used in spacecraft, but is it designed for deep underwater pressure? And what is the what is the danger of that kind of material in this kind of environment? It's completely inappropriate for for a vessel that sees external pressure. You know, carbon fiber composites are used very very successfully for internal pressure, pressure vessels like, let's say, a scuba tank. And you can get two or three times multiple of what you could get out of steel or aluminum for for that type of pressure bottle. But for something that's seeing external pressure, all of the advantages of composite materials go away and all the disadvantages come into play. So if you're using a uniform material like steel or titanium or ceramic or acrylic, you can do computer modeling with a high degree of accuracy and confidence. The second you start doing carbon composite or any kind of composite materials, you're introducing to materials that are in contact with each other, the filament itself, and then the epoxy matrix that it that it sits within. And at that point you have degradation failure. So we always understood that this was the wrong material for submersible hulls, because with each pressure cycle, you can have progressive damage. So it's quite insidious because you may have a number of successful dives, which is what happened here, and then have it fail later. If I were diving in a sub that that was fully certified, I wouldn't think about it. But even in my own sub, which had a steel hull, I knew that if I, if I drove several two or three times it was probably good to go because you could cycle steel hundreds of times, if not thousands of times. But that's not the case with composite. So it's it's quite insidious. And that, I think, lulled them into a sense of confidence and led to this tragedy. But these are known things. They're known within the engineering community and they're well, we also want to point to Ocean Gates, former director of Marine Operations. He wrote us an engineering report in 2018 I think it was he focused his criticisms on the company's decision to rely on acoustic monitoring the sounds the hull made under pressure as opposed to a a scan of the hall. According to him the company claimed no equipment existed that could perform that kind of a scan on the five inch thing five inch thick carbon fiber hull. I know it's difficult to say obviously without reading the report, but I'm wondering what you make of that because the seems like this company was making a big deal about the sensors they had that could sense a problem with the hull. And if they could sense there was a problem, then they would have time to to to turn around and go back up. Clearly, they did it. It's a bit like saying we have we have a bit of a poor design for the engine in our jet or our rocket ship. But we have a sensor that will tell us if it's on fire. To me, that's cold comfort. And I think that if you're if you're building a hall where you need to have sensors to tell you that it's failing in the process of failing, you have no business designing subs or being in that in that sub. They touted it, I believe you know, as a as a good thing, as a as a safety protocol. But I consider it a bad thing because it sheds a light directly on on the fundamental flaw of their of their design. You have to remember, the DNA of this design concept goes back farther. It goes back to the quest to go to the challenger deep that I was involved in, obviously. And there was another sub design that was competing with ours at the time that was based on a wound filament composite cylinder with two titanium caps. And I told those guys point blank, you're going to get killed in that thing. And they ultimately never drove it. I literally told the guy who bought the sub when its owner, Steve Fossett, the famous billionaire, died in a plane crash and the sub was then purchased by another guy to operate it. And I told him, you're going to die down there if you dove that thing. And I felt very strongly about it. I had nothing to do with Ocean Gate, and I never warned, tried to warn, Stoked and Rush of the same thing because I thought maybe they've solved it, you know? But I was pretty opinionated about it at the time. And they had a similar idea of doing acoustic sensors, too. They call it D Lamination when water ingress starts to force the layers of the of the fibers apart. And theoretically you can hear it. I actually believe they heard it with their ears, not through the sensor system in the last moments of their lives. And that's quite a horrifying prospect.