Routing a Mario game with the lowest score A lot of stuff that we usually take for granted, is a low score number. Suddenly we can't kill enemies anymore, stop to be helpful, boss fights become much even brick blocks are suddenly something we Nonetheless, now that New Super Mario Bros for us to take a look at this routing challenge. So today we will not only make our way through gameplay elements as possible, but we will required to beat NSMB Deluxe is. So are you ready. Let's do this! Okay so if we really want to beat the game keep a ton of things in mind. First and foremost, we aren't allowed to Each and every shiny but deadly coin we collect of shame. We aren't allowed to defeat any enemies But not only do we need to avoid killing enemies not to accidentally defeat an enemy in a tragic One way this often happens is if there is flag pole at the end of a level, because as all enemies die. The flagpoles are something we have to keep Every area of the flagpole grants us dumb but the very top, because whenever we end with a yum yum one up, instead of pointless We always want to end the stages when the that's because each second that is left Sadly Mario dies at the exact frame the timer level we enter adds at least 50 points to end a level with no time left. We aren't allowed to take checkpoints, since checkpoints shouldn't be too much of a hassle allows us to dodge them. We can't hit marios precious head against those helpful little blocks grants points power ups in the levels, since power ups punish There is one exception however, if we pop the world map, then it luckily adds no scummy We will use this a couple of times during first discuss the optimal route. Finding the best route is luckily surprisingly fee. Since we aren't able to finish a stage with comes at the ridiculous cost of at least 50 We simply haven't found a way to get rid To make matters even worse, we are also forced boss we defeat. Each boss requires us to take on the burden two times we ouch a boss we are always granted worth another 4000 points. So with this in mind the routing has to follow First we want to enter the least amount of Second we want to enter the least amount of There is only one viable route that fulfills Basically we take every secret exit on the We leave 1-2 via the secret exit to reach We leave the fifth world through the secret world, and in the seventh and eighth world This leaves us with a total of 16 levels, Okay, so all that's left to do for us is finally know the lowest score required to Before we start just one more thing. The way I theorycrafted this, was by first the levels on the route over and over again score. Because of this there are some left-over points we are going to use our own little score counter, So let's start at the beginning, let's The stage itself features no problems at all, without collecting any unpleasant points is There is something else that is interesting We don't get any power ups here. In theory it is possible to grab a somewhat this nice little squirrel, and by stealing That cost of such a crime would be 1200 points. 200 points for the squirrel murder and another That's a really cheap way to obtain an acorn a normal mushroom before a acorn mushroom shroom there are actually ways to obtain one Since we refuse to cosplay as a squirrel we We need to touch the top of the flagpole at of the flagpole can't be reached by small Luckily there is a simple way to solve this All we have to do is to get a little bit of THUNDER. We can use luigi to save the flagpole points So how does luigi help us do this. Well, by doing absolutely nothing. All that marios twin has to do here, is to us to jump off of his head, and to touch the Hooray! 1-1 is 50 points. Next up we have to make our path through a fire spitting piranha plants, but also features This stage gives rise to a couple of problems. First there is this dumb coin layout. We can't make it past this section without The stinky coin is easily avoidable as acorn up powers. I tried getting rid of this coin for ages, sadly, this one has to be eaten. But there is a far bigger problem ahead of The entrance to the secret exit is sadly still that try to pay everyone who wants to pass. That's sadly a gigantic problem for us, Not taking it would force us to collect about exit skips at least 3 boss battles. The minimum amount of coins required here This sadly skyrockets our total score up to requires us to pay 1550 points. Ouch. Luckily stuff becomes a lot simpler for a The secret level can easily be beaten with The next one, jungle of the giants, is no Since we still have no acorn suit, making killing an enemy would be a huge challenge, We are able to switch over to everyone's favorite and this level easily beatable with only the And afterwards, well afterwards something Afterwards nabbit spawns for the first time That's huge for us! So if we chase and catch nabbit in this stage, But not only do we obtain a delicious p-acorn, points to our score total. Since eating items on the world map doesn't to a pointless acorn suit! Hooray, that makes our lives a lot easier Hey, it's ceave from the previous future, So I just quickly double checked everything If we beat jungle of the giants as nabbit, map. This means the level has actually to be done harder but it's still possible to beat it So back to the past! We now wear an acorn shroom, and we are able nabbit again. The acorn mushroom makes a lot of the upcoming much to talk about them, so let's fill the The jungle tower is worth unspectacular 8050 the boss. All non boss levels in the seventh world can timer points, so does the first stage in the The final level is sadly worth 20050 demoralizing The problem here is that we have to fight The first fight is worth 4000 points, because progress blocking p-switch, and during the bowser by obtaining the double amount of points points in total. There is currently nothing we can do against Which leaves us with 6 stages to investigate The remaining six stages are all quite interesting, Let's start with flight of the para beetles, the seventh world. The problem here aren't the many many coins, here the happily fluttering para beetles or The problem here is this question block, and Yup. The problem is that those blocks get destroyed with ten points for each block destroyed during That's soo weird. Almost all ways of passive block point punishment We don't get points if the bowser hand destroys kill innocent brick blocks that just happened basically all brick point sources are gone, give us points automatically when a bullet Since the stage is an auto scroller there so that they unload before they reach the All we can do here is to wait for the blasters proudly accept the dumb 30 points this grants stonecrush tower time. The stonecrush tower is as annoying as always. There are still tons of ninja coins that try bros firing laughable, but ouching, fireballs. And kamek is still really really not good. The best way to at least have a shot at beating we have is by fighting as nabbit. This makes the level before the boss a lot last obstacle before the boss features this Dodging this floating currency is really difficult directly at the end of the tower doesn't The fight itself can be completed with exactly consistently. The evil boy witch is just completely random, we are able to hit him at the last second Yup. This significantly lowers the chances the run, but at least in theory the dumb stonecrush The next stop on our point minimizing journey So this stage was especially fun when routing section here, where a sledge bros assaults to crush us, and worst of all, nasty coins The way we were able to solve this problem mini mushroom outfit, which not only allows that we are able to run below the shiny, yet Sadly this option is locked for us here since Finding a way through this crusher nightmare but then I watched NicoBBQs recent vid, on deluxe without touching a single coin, and part coinless, that I missed. Nico just picked up the pow block that is to this spot. This allowed him to drop the pow, and to get Clever, sadly the pow block not only kills top. Usually I'd be all for killing sledge bros here, because killing the sledge bros is obviously But luckily, there is actually a way to pop bros life. So if we wait for the bros to do his silly the turtle is out of sight, then the earthquakes sledge bros life. This way we are able to make it through the Hooray! The rest of the level and the fight against ludwig's castle adds another optimal 8050 The airship stage is next. The interesting part here isn't the level in the first half, the interesting part here punching clown car. Here we are forced to damage bowser jr three points. However this fight can actually be completed bring is a fireflower. If bowser jr get hit by mario by jumping onto by a fire flower it's 2000 points, if he points, ground pounding a bob omb close to and juggling a bob omb with fireballs close Yup! Bob ombs are weird! If a bob omb gets ignited by a fireball then therefore doesn't add any points when damaging That's a huge point save here. We are able to change to a fireflower directly but it saves a total of 8000 points over the stage only adds 1050 points to our total. Hooray. There is only a small problem, we now wear But at the end of the secret level in the suit, because otherwise we aren't able to We also need to wear a the funky acorn outfit And this is why this is a slight problem, of the giants stage, the stage we previously to not kill any enemies here otherwise. The problem is that we aren't able to switch because believe it or not, as it turns out As soon as we switch over to nabbit, nabbit Luckily it's still possible to solve this It's a bit tricky to do, but if we just enemies on our path, then we are able to catch frames run out. Hooray, this gives us access to another p-acorn, in the eight world with only the fifty timer Now only one final stage is left for us to possible score. Red hot elevator ride. In this level we presumably have to ride this aaaand, holy fuzzy, that's no trivial task. Whenever a coin or a bob omb drops onto the move, until we remove the disgusting coins. That's the first problem here, and this use of an interesting mechanic. If we use the acorn suits awesome updrift to move so far up that the platform is out Whenever the elevator isn't within the camera lit and to raise the platform directly below This way we are able to raise the elevator, themselves comfortable on it. Sadly this becomes increasingly difficult In the later parts of the level, we have to pointless. Luckily there is something, if we ground pound they don't grant points. Most of the time, it's surprisingly simple a flying coin or another bob ombi, which stupidly This makes making it to the top of the stage But there is another problem hidden in this In the middle of the level, there is suddenly from proceeding. The level wants us to hit this p-switch here we definitely are not going to do for very So the only way I was able to find to make against five of those brock blocks in quick This sadly comes at the cost of severe headache There's currently nothing we can do against So 8-4 is another 100 points which finally 47480 points is the minimum score required Soooo is this score the absolute,totally perfect Well very probably not, it's more like the If someone of you wonderful ladies and gentleman that may allow us to save a couple of points Also this lowest score number is kinda high version lacks the boost mode that was present This single missing feature makes this beating it on the wii u version would be. On the old version of the game the lowest 8000 points mark, but that would need a completely So, yeah, here we have it. The currently absolutely lowest score required I hope you enjoyed this little video, if you up and maybe you feel especially missing the button as well. I hope that all of you have a wonderful day Goodbye!