Some days just feel like a race against the me. I feel like it's already this late and I if you experience this yourself sometimes, that can be quite stressful. I know life ways that we can practice slow living and I want to share 25 easy slow living tips stop racing to the next moment and find more I'm a firm believer that slow living starts many practical things that we can do. And I'll all begins with shifting our perception of time. we will notice that life will slow down massive amounts of time to do everything life won't break down and things will through your days. No more rushing around instead of the other way around. I've partnered more about them later. For now, let's dive take five deep breaths in and out. When you do amazing things happen in your body and your mind. increases energy and puts your body into digest mode&quot;. And the wonderful thing about have new upstairs neighbors and they chose this great. Always when I feel really busy it feels like I don't even have time to stop I have to fight that urge to just continue on and it works. I always feel so much more relaxed and be done anywhere any time. But if you have breathing in counting to four, then holding your slowly counting to eight. So your exhale is &quot;relaxing breath&quot;. It helps to slow things down. song without distractions. When was the last time without any distractions? Without doing anything to do. And surprisingly helpful for me to find or to boost my mood by putting on something happy yawn or stretch your arms overhead. Choose a It only takes like 3-4 minutes. So if I feel right part two from Asian Kung Fu Generation. on koko ni itte, from Miyako Hasegawa. It's the as you can the night before. Nothing makes me feel hurried. So anything that you can do the night more easy and relaxed, do it. I like to pre-make could also pre-make your lunch to take to work or clothing you want to wear the night before. Pack can do to help out your future self, do that the such a huge impact on how you feel the rest of the as you can. Start your days 15 minutes earlier if up 15 minutes earlier and give yourself just a to sleep as long as possible. But if I have the moment and then having to rush, or getting up just slowly ease into my day, then that will always weekdays now, so I know what I'm talking about. phone immediately after waking up. Give your brain and on your lovely breakfast or coffee or tea or news articles and social media posts. Your brain out loud. Sighing is amazing. It is so comforting inhale and a long loud exhale. And it is great for the nervous system, and blowing off some emotional with a little stretch, arms out wide. It's kind was in the other room, that they will be able to seconds. It's nice. For the advanced sigher, you just kind of like shaking it off. Have a short too long, but that just leaves you feeling more So I take a shower and I use some really nice like good and that feels nice on my skin. I wash my out of the wash pajamas. And then I make myself watching a comfort show. This is so comforting and I was allowed to watch a little bit more TV just the combination of all the smells from your and the herbal tea, it's just it's so comforting can even change the sheets on your bed before you you can also just go to really nice, crisp, clean pampering yourself, here is where I quickly want today's video. I've told you about their natural favorite for more than a year now. But today, has also created a plasticfree, compostable and throwaway culture of everyday bathroom products work. No single-use plastic. They're vegan, ingredients. They're very soft on the skin. They very hydrating. And my favorite design with the wash. Just open it up, put the bamboo compostable the limited edition Hawaiian ocean scent, and it flowers. They have worldwide shipping and over Corporation. They plant trees. They're just a Good for the planet and smelling fresh all day, use my code VERAWILD20. This is a limited their products. You can also scan the QR code or you to Wild for their support, let's get back to your parents probably had some kind of bedtime asleep immediately after playing or something. So if you've just been multitasking, or reading the and a TV on loud. If your body and your mind are to sleep, then they will continue on racing little like an hour or so before you want to so your body can start producing melatonin. Maybe drink some tea. You could do some stretching, body and your mind for rest. Try a slow hobby that Everything needs to be like quick and fast So a really good way to counter this is by trying drawing, writing in a journal, learning to play an that takes practice and time. These are great be less reliant on that dopamine hit that we get have become used to now. Put down your spoon while bit more slowly. So instead of already like making still chewing on the bite that you have now, bite once you've swallowed the one that you have many advantages to this. It improves digestion, it and savor your meals so much more. If you're this out and see if you can notice a difference. And get comfortable with saying no more often. So certain sections of your calendar so that people you can block out lunch so that you you actually out like a few hours of deep focused work, so of like meetings and phone calls. You could block my periods in my own calendar, so that I know I'm or tiring during those weeks. So protect your and will not do with your time and block that off, Avoid distractions during deep work. Speaking of do with focus, then try doing that without any when you're also trying to focus on something can are a highly sensitive person like me, then your phone and checking your email and having it's truly life-changing. I really made changes doing research for a video script, or I'm editing don't have my phone near me. I'm not also checking need a little help and accountability, I know that So you could do a little research there. But my feel so fried after working. Avoid the two biggest which, I know it's not exactly like fun to hear of a contributor to your busy and stressful life wasters on your phone are mindless scrolling and give your brain that little hit of do dopamine gives feelings of pleasure. It's like retail living in a more relaxed state, mindful living, on your phone basically do the exact opposite. sleep problems. Not to mention they take time positive things instead. And I say this as someone have like a relaxing hobby. But try to find with your mental health. We're on our phone enough weird. Self- massaging and hugging. Hear me out. it's awkward if you're not used to it. But it that show that it can help with pain management. It can decrease cortisol in the body, which is increase self-compassion. According to Kristen self-compassion, hugging massaging and physically and tenderness towards yourself. And yes I know that that sounds weird. Because why can't we be good relationship with ourselves? So give give yourself a nice massage on your neck or a Try it. Number 14: with any new things, ask talk about something completely different. Because wonderful match, and can really complement each the more stuff we have, the more we have to clean takes away time. It makes our life more busy and something new that you want to buy, just quickly in my life. And if the answer is yes, then that this needs a lot of upkeep, or maintenance, or I way or something. And you realize that you don't tiny bit for this thing. And it's not really worth Number 15: a variation on the Pomodoro Technique. it is a short timed interval during which you the timer goes off, and then you take a break. I procrastination if it's something that I really take a break regularly if I really get into eat or drink or pee or even just the fact that I'm Technique is 25 minutes of work and then 5 minute short, both of them. So I like to do 50 minutes of this to what works for you. Of course, depending maybe then you could try this technique with other off, or doing too long without taking a break. not deserve your time or attention when you're to ask me if I could only share one tip for slow Then I think this will be it. Leave your phone be restorative. So they are supposed to help you prepare for the next thing. And unfortunately, then you're not really doing any of that. So even have them, without being on your phone. And that really think that if you can do that, your life afterthought. Self-care is just as important fall into this trap constantly. In fact, I did it day, and then I feel like if I have time, then I But my days tend to fill up pretty fast. And then morning walk this morning, because I I didn't work or school or family, home life, cleaning, at the end of the week, there's no time left for you have time for it. It is actually essential. some time for it, to make sure that you can do So I'm really going to try and still go on my stare out the window for a few minutes to watch it is a great mindfulness exercise. Because it while by focusing on something else. Watching don't have to squint or focus like really hard soft focus. Maybe you see some clouds, maybe you Maybe you see some birds or some people walking window. Second is that this helps to give us some the only person alive. And just by like watching or even the animals and the birds kind of doing person. And my problems are tiny. Like if I need are doing construction, things like that, it helps I don't need to be stressing about this stuff. your eyes and sit for 2 minutes. Another wonderful sit comfortably somewhere comfortable. Doesn't your eyes for 2 minutes and do absolutely nothing. And we know that resting like this isn't as benefits. Resting with your eyes closed can calm relax. And it signals to your brain that you are for danger. It helps to lower your heart rate, I always feel like I've had like a tiny sip bit more like refreshed. Plus, if you have a job then this is also just really nice for your eyes. understand that you have limits and respect them. be quite easy or really quite hard. But I wanted realizing that you can't do it all. You don't have today and you got less done than usual. Or you were planning on doing. You're a human being, you who fares better if you have a little bit less on that and respect your own limits. Ask yourself: do also be the case that you are just expecting too scheduling fewer things per day. So instead of to-do list for today, whether you actually write Do I really have to do this now? Do I need to Do I need to do this now, or can I do it later? embrace slowcations. If you do have some time off embracing the slow living can really you could do slow travel. And if you're staying at in the case of travel, I would now much rather really have the time to enjoy it and relax into the afternoon and the evening, and really having super tired afterwards. There's a little fruit staycation, then realize that yes, you are at you don't have to do anything. You don't have to because that is what vacations are for. They do something that you normally don't have time which is the Dutch word for doing nothing. Just travel and vacations can be so exhausting, that But it doesn't have to be. You are in charge in try having a no plans day. So nothing beats the when you wake up in the morning and you have your day. Just kind of feel what you're feeling No must do's. I think it's so important to just expectations and to just take the day as it comes. might feel weird to make plans for a no plans day. love it. By the way, I'm trying something here Read less information and more fiction. Of books and non-fiction books. But I find that when head get really busy. And I feel like I need I need to like write it down somewhere, and start stuff like that. And it's great for getting like great for when I want to slow down. So for me, purely for my own enjoyment, without feeling like like I need to finish the book by a certain amount month. If you want to enjoy reading more and have really recommend just getting out a good fiction I know this one is a little bit more vague, but the things that you do. So if you have to do whatever it is, to accept that that is what you're and that is okay. So instead of rushing because it's not maybe enjoyable, or you're just just accept like okay, this is what I'm doing now. we're doing something but really we're already Whereas with slow living, the key is to just do the next thing. So for example last night. I had like rest and relaxation in the evening, together we still had to you know cook and do the dishes get through that, so that the rest could begin. like okay, I'm just cooking now. So work is really the relaxing evening is not here either, because that I'm now cooking. And I actually really like going to take some time and just be present approach it, and it really helps. And if you just going to take a lot more time than if you were timesaver to rush. It just creates a whole So now, I'd love to know from you. Which of these Leave that in the comments, I would love to know. off. All the info in the description box. And as below. Thank you so much for being here until the lovely day and I will see you all again very soon. and I used lima beans instead of chick peas. And