Hi. Hi. Hi. Hi. Hi. My name's Mark, and I made a video game about... Magnets. Magnets. Magnets. Magnets. So, this is it. The final episode of Developing. Mind Over Magnet has been on and so now I can tell you everything. I'll tell you what it was like I'll tell you exactly how many I'll tell you about all of the bugs I'll tell you what the most negative reviews learned from making this game that will I will tell you it all. But before we get into that, it's time Music Okay, so a big goal with Developing was to give you a super transparent look at what And so I've tried to show you every step of to making your first prototypes, to wrangling with design problems, from hiring I've tried to show you everything be like if you too were to make your Except there's a few aspects of my development story which simply aren't going to be And that's because by virtue of having I've been afforded a number of advantages that For instance, if you run into a programming you probably don't have a huge to help you out at the drop of a hat, And if you need playtesters for summon hundreds of them with a single tweet. And most pertinently for the discussion today, if you were to make a bog-standard 2D puzzle you can't be expected to sell the I say none of this to put you In fact, I really hope that you are to go out there and try and make your own games. But I think before we dive I think it's worth putting Putting a caveat on these results of the sales come by virtue of me having this And so if you were to make your own game, you Is that cool? Cool. Let's get into it. So in the last episode of Developing, big green release app button, and then Now a thing about Steam is that Valve can For instance, the wishlist stats So sometimes you have to wait an whether your Next Fest demo or your YouTube But Valve does give you a real-time look at exactly how many people are online Which, while they're not exact sales numbers, So I decided to park my bum on that And so I saw 12 people were playing 100 people, 200 people, uh, 150 people. Yeah, like I say, this is not the people are online and playing and so that However, I then accidentally pressed the back Steam stats and realised that - oh, right, Valve does actually tell you pretty much up And so I could see that 800 people had And then 1000 people. And 2000 people. And then the rest of the evening The game ended up on the It was in the top 25 of the top Because Valve had OK'd the game as Steam it had a prominent position And most mind-boggling of all, the big images at the very top on Netting the game hundreds of thousands, And so by the time I went to sleep, the game had And by the end of the first week, the game had And by the recording of this video, Which is absolutely incredible. Like beyond anything I was expecting So thank you so much. If you were one of those 12,446 people, thank you so much for showing the You are truly amazing. Now wait a second. Hold up a minute. Because it might be tempting to take that do a quick calculation, and think &quot;holy And yeah, it is a lot of money. But it's also not the full story. So let me explain where that money actually goes. Now it's a little bit gauche to I think, so perhaps we could do it with this. And let's say that the game So 1, 2, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 39, 40, 41, 42, 43, 62, 63, I've dropped one, 76, 100 Monopoly monies. Not too bad. I'm gonna buy myself a hotel on Mayfair. However, this is not the full story. Now, the first stuff comes at the point of sale. Stuff like sales taxes in various countries, credit card fees and chargebacks, and That for me ended up being about 10% of the Then Valve would like its cut. The company wants 30% of your revenue as a of people to your game and running all the So that's 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, lighter load right here, but still enough to Now this money will end up in the GMTK It's not in there yet, but fingers crossed. But that's also not the full story, because You know, how much did this Now GMTK and Mind Over Magnet in that the game didn't really cost me anything. The game was funded by the incredible You could make the argument that spending time YouTube videos and thus less YouTube ad revenue That is certainly true, that is what happened, but it's a little hard to calculate and a But what I can't ignore is that I had who made the amazing soundtrack for the game, plus there were some other fees here And so without revealing exactly I can say that I need to lose another one, And then if you are lucky enough to well, you know what's going to happen. The tax man is coming. Again it's hard to calculate exactly, but that's going to be another, four, thirteen, fourteen, fifteen to And so we are left with, I think if my Which is still an incredible amount of cash. I could buy a very nice dog kennel on fund some more video games perhaps, Still a huge amount of money, a little sad to see this compared And so if you take nothing else from this Consider all of these hidden costs and taxes before you put a holiday to Not that you're going to be because an influx of new players And as soon as Mind Over Magnet was out, onto the GMTK Discord, which has a public and into my email inbox to tell and glitches that I had missed with my QA team Now fortunately there were no that affected great swathes I mean, probably the worst thing that happened Mac version of the game, which was a bit of a So I could take the first four days recover, digest, and celebrate the game's launch. But come Monday morning, it was time to fire up the old spreadsheet and start listing So first on the chopping board was They're now all good. There were about 20 levels that people Most of those could be fixed by just cheesing and unintentional solutions, ended up completely redesigning simply with a fresh perspective I thought of a I mean I could probably redesign but that would be ridiculous. Some people were also having trouble with symbols if they were playing with a so I just put in an option where controller glyphs should be showing if the And I also added in another feature which was to replace the world select screen So once you finish the game you can game without having to start a world from scratch. But there were a few bugs that simply because they were being These were the sort of things that 99% of normal but speedrunners could use physics glitches and run faster or jump higher or to bypass I decided that it wouldn't really hurt would make the speedrunning community And so while I was tempted to watch the I decided in the end to leave those things be. And even beyond that I decided to keep thanks to Steam's beta drop-down doohickey, and also for preservation so you can always And so with a patch, and then a much smaller patch the launch window support for Mind Which is a relief. Though I know that my time with There will be more bugs to fix. I would like to do a console version but no immediate plans so please don't And maybe one day I will wake up and I want to make some Mind Over Magnet levels.&quot; Or perhaps I want to make the, perhaps, Oh, and speaking of inevitable, did you dev on the internet, I too have my I worked with Makeship to make super cute version of Magnus from the game. It is currently crowdfunding, there are a few for them to complete their print run, so that would be fantastic, otherwise I'm I will do it. I have the funds, but um, please don't make me. Okay, back to the video. So we've talked about the launch, we've talked about the money, we've talked Now Mind Over Magnet has actually The game is sitting at about 88% recommended is pretty awesome, though I admit also though also biased in the opposite who will never pass up an opportunity Love you guys. The game has also had a few professional of 10 from DualShockers, and an 8 out of Those are very kind. And on Backlogged, the game is so somewhere between 6 and 7 out of 10, which But all of those reviews are amazing. Really, really happy with them, to be honest. In terms of positive sentiment, I think people to play, which is nice, and found that that satisfying &quot;aha&quot; moment I've been People also praised the general feel, the controls, the sound design, just And of course, there was no end of which by time of release will be available And all of the proceeds for the so please do support him as well. Now in terms of the more negative reviews, the biggest issue was definitely Mind Over Magnet is about two hours long, and for some people that just left them wanting And a few people did take that opportunity, but Only about 2% of people have and of course some of those will be technical So the number of people who actually &quot;That's too short, I want my money So that's fine. Now there's nothing wrong with a short ever made are very short, but it's And price is something I went back and forth In fact, I was changing the price and tweaking the launch day discount within the last Ultimately I decided to just look at other games of a similar length and price Though I made sure to always give myself enough including the launch day discount, the various and just about any other event where Burn's Night in Scotland? 10% off. The King's Birthday? 50% off. You know, we can just keep dropping that price. That's built in to the game's cost. But whatever the case, money, value, personal so I have no qualms about reviews Totally get it. Another frequent criticism is that the game Now as you've probably seen in the that is something I have struggled with In the end, I am proud that the for a very general and casual audience of people. It's great that I can just and they'll probably be able to play And it's been great to see so many No, that does not sound good at all. It has been great for people to tell me that That is just really heartwarming and However, I do regret that I didn't better suited to a more hardcore gaming audience. And while I certainly played with some it just didn't end up in the final game, And then the other criticism I got safe, uninspiring, unimaginative. Which that one did kinda catch me by the more I can kinda see where I mean, this game is not It is not the most innovative game It is a pretty bog-standard, by And also as a solo developed project for the You don't get a lot of me in this game. So while I'm a little sad that I can at least understand And you know what, that is kind of the thing That I agree with all of them, and I And to be honest, that was perhaps the Knowing full well that I wasn't 100% but still putting it out there for people It's like that bit in The Great British Bake Off knowing full well that it's a raw cake, but still It just... the cringe is real, and that's how I felt for most of But ultimately I came to the realisation It was not about trying to Though if I had done that by accident But no, this was about trying to find And it turns out it takes a lot. Making this game, releasing this game, was hard. It was hard to make it look good. It was hard to make it feel good. It was hard to design all of the puzzles. It was hard to write all of the code and fix all of the bugs that I am aware As someone who typically works on it was hard to work on the same project and As someone who typically likes stuff to anyone until it's absolutely into the creative process and to show the Basically, it is a miracle and so the fact that it doesn't completely suck But okay, if the point of Mind Over Magnet was to Well, let's take the classic Game look at what went right and what went wrong. Starting with what went right. The first thing that comes to mind is the tools. This is basically anything I built that but helped me to make the game more quickly. I'm specifically thinking about like the drill and the I can just drag them into a scene and then I've got sliders and By the end of development, it together or to change or to iterate And so while this stuff certainly took down the line and I don't regret any of Another good use of my time, I the presentation, the polish, the game feel. I don't think it's too big-headed of me to and it's got nice animations and it all just comes together and I think these elements really tie better than it actually is, if that makes sense. So again, I do not regret the time I transition shaders and sound Another big win was playtesting. Now I'll admit it took me a long time before but once I did, I didn't really stop. Over the course of several years, I game to friends and family members and strangers And basically no aspect of the game was not improved by listening to Mind Over Magnet would simply be significantly worse if I just ignored what That should be obvious, but bears repeating. I'm also pretty happy with Of course there's more I could do, but the It has full controller and keyboard remapping. You can play the whole game with a controller and they both feel good. And it's got that simple backgrounds option distracting visual backgrounds The real smart move was getting this Because while I think a lot of game devs get we should probably put some accessibility options into a spaghetti nightmare mess of finished game first being developed so it was always there, I'm also really happy with I've seen so many playtesters for a puzzle and then kind of go, Yeah yeah yeah, I know what to do.&quot; And kind of still feel that thrill despite the fact that I just And I think that's because They just kind of push you in the right direction Okay, some of the hints do tell you And if you are still stuck, you can long as you've been stuck on it So the game never has a total brick wall and there's no reason to look up a Now in terms of things that went wrong, I think the biggest one was You see, game dev is split into two aspects. You've got pre-production where you're be and running all sorts of experimentations You're basically deciding all of the major You know, what is this game? What does the player do? What does a level look like in this game? What is the overarching structure? What's the core loop? What does the artwork look like? So on and so forth. And then you transition into production Now the nice thing about pre-production about making changes because You can try ten different solutions matter because you're just going You're not committed to anything. But if you do what I did and move too game before deciding the answers to those to end up repeating yourself, spinning your Basically, what I'm trying to say is the art assets in your game within the you hadn't previously figured out how That is, and I believe this is a Another thing that went wrong, and this is that I never really had a good No roadmap, no milestones, nothing like that. I had a vague idea of what the game looked like on the game with the vague hope that it might by Spoiler alert, it didn't. Until I finally sat down with a notepad or with a Trello board and planned out How many worlds does this game have? How many levels per world? What are the main story beats? Stuff like that. It was only when I put together that plan that I could actually start moving in a good I also focused a lot of time on Like okay, in Mind Over Magnet, if you put the menu and then switch to a controller, it will That took like a day to figure out and is not and I wish I had spent time that I spent underlying gameplay or making better Stuff that actually does have a real Another thing that went wrong is that I picked a surprisingly difficult genre Now a 2D puzzle platformer might seem quite A 2D platformer is already pretty feel good to control is an engineering feat But it's the puzzle design It's just hard to make puzzles. Puzzles are like a craft in of themselves, and greatest puzzle game designers like Jonathan have spent years, like their whole careers, And then I come in and I'm like, &quot;Yeah, I could probably do that in a couple months while No problem.&quot; And so it shouldn't be a surprise that the puzzles and I'm still not really that happy with Oh, and on that note, it was have a heavy physics element in a puzzle game. Puzzles are very much about the designer having and then when you throw in the chaotic suddenly there are a lot And then there's the thing that went right or what went wrong because And that's the whole concept of working solo. I made pretty much all of Mind Over Magnet by pretty limited skillset, let's be honest, across I had to spread myself across animation, sound production, marketing, and probably a And then if you compare that to Zach, who made the Putting aside the fact that he's also making his In the context of Mind Over Magnet, Zach could focus a hundred percent of his And so I was left wondering, like, if I could just spend three years game design and let somebody else focus The game would definitely be better. It would almost certainly But I'm not sure if I would have I like working by myself. I like having full creative I like being able to work and I wouldn't want to have Still, if I do ever make another game, I will think about which aspects But will I make another game? That is a question I've been and it's the question that people keep asking me. &quot;Mark, are you going to make another video game?&quot; Now, I am definitely going to enter Game Jams. I am certainly going to make more interactive But the thought of making another I'm not sure I've got that in me. I'm not sure if I'm ever going to do that. But if Mind Over Magnet is the only I would be okay with that, because despite the missed opportunities I had with despite the bugs and all of the stuff I wish I'm proud of you, buddy. I'm proud of it. It is a cool video game. And when I look at the game, I see a video game, a real game that went played by thousands of people, most of which significant amounts of money for me, which is, you And it is now the objective truth of I made a video game, and that So Magnus, you're all I need. But here's the thing. I could not have done it without you. So I want to say a massive thank you to has watched me slowly lose my I want to thank you if you were there in 2021 when if you were there in 2022 when I released for the game and started getting if you were there in 2023 when I took the in San Francisco and got real encouragement or if you were there in 2024 when I hit that And as for 2025, I do not know, but I'm Thank you so much for watching. Don't forget about Magnus on Makeship. Don't forget about buying the game. You can still put the game on your Steam wishlist, and you will be notified the next And have a good Christmas. Have a good New Year's. Have a good life. Next time you see me, it will and that means it is time to dismantle That was the secret to the It wasn't a green screen. It was a blue wall. Turn off that light. Turn off this light. Let's get rid of this. And turn off this light. Thank you and goodbye. Nope, that's stuck. Thank you and goodbye. God, that is not ideal. Thank you and goodbye.