When looking back upon noteworthy aircraft of the F-16 and F-15. However, many other some with great potential. Few of and naturally have largely been forgotten. One such design - which was designed in Tigershark, an aircraft in which its development but arguably, could have become a great fighter. Beginning in the early 1960s, the United States aircraft for both domestic use and sale on the were considered for modification, including the was chosen. This aircraft would be the F-5 it possessed certain qualities not found in larger and the small platform was both With comparable agility to the revered Vietnam in the mid 60s, filling a variety these early models, from the Alpha through to and despite their short range were considered At the same time, back in the US, the F-5s become their most iconic tasking; aggressor this role for many years, famously taking part F-14 and F-15. While these newer aircraft pilots remember that the F-5 remained Considering the benefits of the Freedom upgrade program in 1970, which would see the and improved internals for better air-to-air The result was the F-5E Tiger II, which has become what most people today F-5Es still operate to this day in various upgrade program was on the table, which be bought up to fourth-gen standards. During the 1970s, the rapidly evolving Cold advanced weapons sales abroad. In the 60s, when this was far less of an issue, but by the less black-and-white. President Nixon had been and China, and part of this process involved countries that could be seen as proxies. and this was denied to prevent the Some exceptions were made - for and Israel received F-15s - however broadly were under increased scrutiny. This would which was filled by European and Soviet noted that weapons sales had increased globally send new aircraft to their allies, including the President Carter had lobbied however by 1980 the military was seriously returning to Kennedy's initial vision; something which would outperform the original F-5 and considerations so that the US could mitigate buyers. The answer was "FX" - a program It would be an entirely privately funded advertise the aircraft, rather everything would Dynamics answered with the F-16/79, which as engine replaced by the classic J79 used in the F4 with an upgraded model of the F-5G. However, Taiwan was once again denied the F-5G and fighter - the F-CK-1 - and at the same time In response, Northrop was given the was far more capable than initially intended; F-16A - the most agile of the Viper variants to better avionics, and perhaps an altered airframe. The F-5G name was dropped, and in late 1982 'F-20 Tigershark'. Design and construction to lower weight, parts of the aircraft were While the airframe would remain largely the same, inspired by the ingenuity of the F-16. Firstly, improving the lift coefficient without horizontal stabiliser - 30% larger than its now somewhat unstable - just like the F-16 - at Mach 0.8 at altitude, it could achieve close to the F-16s 12.8 at The twin J85s used on the F-5E would be replaced engine alone would produce 70% more thrust than It was also claimed that this was the most one video it is stated that the F-20 could achieve from just 47 knots at 45000 feet, without In terms of general performance, the Tigershark - beyond Mach 2.0, at altitudes up to 55,000 feet. in one test flight from Edwards Air Force Base in without refuel, a range of over 2,000 In the cockpit, everything was upgraded. A the older system from the Tiger, whilst an older analogue electro-mechanical system. The new air-to-ground performance and could be operated in a new, large heads-up display would provide data entry display, and below that - on the left capable of operating in several modes. The to allow for better systems employment without The cockpits general layout was not dissimilar plus the basic DED, however on a technical from the Hornet. The MFD visualisation as well as other MFD pages like the stores similar to those displayed on the Hornets DDI's. possible that pre-existing components were used videos, and that a finalised production The F-20 was promoted as compatible with a variety Maverick air-to-ground missiles, Mark 80 bombs nose a twin cannon. It could even be set up for and laser guided bombs, then directed to target in the Hornet. Northrop also intended the aircraft Northrop also claimed that the Tigershark had using an internal cartridge start, the engine laser INS would be ready in 22, and the aircraft However, there were some drawbacks. The in a fight - lacked lift performance in standard Weapons had to be mounted further out on the pounds of stores. It did however hold one crucial the F-20 could field the AIM-7 Sparrow, allowing a feature the F-16 wasn't widely In terms of price the F-20 would cost yet cheaper than its competition; an the latest F-16s were $15 million, and an The F-20, in contrast, would only cost $10.7 one estimate put the F-20s lifespan at half the Tigershark would cost 60% less than the Flying in its more archaic F-5G form since August during the design process due to its close modification and flight testing. Initially testing F-5G with the F404, but by 1983 a better prepared This is the F-20 Tigershark. America's newest tactical fighter. The F-20 is the most dependable fighter flying today. With the performance and modern systems needed to dominate the tactical air combat arena, on air-to-air, air-to-ground, and air-to-sea missions. The aircraft powerful in the air. 9G capable, it was boasted agility limits imposed, allowing for incredible During its several years of testing, of development successfully fired all of Sparrow, Sidewinder, and so on. Customers were already lining up; Bahrain wished to order the aircraft, and South Yeager - who was working with Northrop at the However, government and corporate In 1983 the US government began directly IAI Lavi. The Lavi would be a and one produced by a foreign state. specifically harming Northrop, who justly own F-20 project - but now the US military, Annoyance did not subside; others in the but congressional favour towards the Israeli and others in the industry. To make matters while other manufacturers could market how they even material had to go through the US government The straw that broke the camel's back, Department's complete disinterest in selling the The issue of the F-20 would be dragged before of State for Security Assistance - William wouldn't sell. In fact, he then went on to claim tool, and its actual commercial success as a stepped up to voice his complaints; that Northrop interest to do so. Finally, Brigadier General stating that he believed the Air Force was that he had seen 100 aircraft sold to foreign of them were the FX fighter. Finally, he said this French who had proven with their Mirage that there Finally, after the congressional hearings, the In internal reviews, the F-20 was acknowledged a deadly aircraft in the right hands. It was Electric had spent on the F-16/79, Northrop had the design. Sadly, reviews from some corners In yet another controversial move, after having engine, light weight aircraft for aggressor the F-20 - the Navy responded, saying it had variant. Behind closed doors, the rumour market price at a loss, deliberately The final blow would come not long after, in nations, who had shown interest in the F-20, was if the US was operating and maintaining it. This US had faith in the design, and thus others Northrop had hoped in one final bid Northrop noted the aircraft was the perfect could field the AIM-7, and best of all had time. In a shocking disappointment to Northrop, the new F-16C for the role, which once Facing one defeat after another, and still decided to stop the program. Negotiations and some executives were noted as attempting to in a last ditch move, leading to several people the program had cost $1.2 billion for Northrop. some form of legal action, and wished to continual favouritism towards the F-16. This specifically due to anxiety that the In retrospect, it is easy to sympathise speculated that the entire F-20 ordeal and artificially drive down Nevertheless, we can speculate that the highly capable in its role as fighter. the only consistent criticism was lack the F-20 was admitted as being a dominant A privately funded aircraft capable of the F-20 may not be well remembered, but the greatest aircraft that never