He was the undisputed king of rock n' roll. In the mid-1950s, 20-year old Elvis Presley With a rockabilly blend of country music and hips, the southern boy caused a sensation. Coming just as youth culture was taking off, dangerous, rebellious, and anathema to their Across the nation, preachers denounced him Judges issued writs against him for corrupting The National Guard was even called to his If you were alive in 1956, then you likely man alive. Yet who feels that way today? Mention Elvis's name now, and you're more dude warbling away in Las Vegas, his preposterous ten thousand hamburgers. How did the King of rock n' roll transform Today, Biographics is taking its Delorean birth of a generation... and the life of that (TITLE): Livin' in a Shotgun Shack Although he grew up to become the King, there birth. On January 8, 1935, Elvis Aaron Presley was the weight of the Great Depression. His father, Vernon Presley, was an odd-job scraping by. The two lived in East Tupelo, a small town in Mississippi. Although the family did have their own house enough to fit inside your average briefcase or much of anything else. In fact, the Presleys were so poor that they delivered Elvis. Or rather, delivered Elvis and his twin. Yep, twin. Elvis was originally meant to be brother to emerged stillborn. He almost wasn't the early one. The birth nearly killed both Gladys and Elvis, Although both pulled through, the shock of Gladys. For the rest of her life, she would be ferociously But that was all for the future. For the first part of his life, baby Elvis Gladys and Vernon were so poor that they had Shockingly, this was their financial highpoint. In 1938, Vernon was jailed for forging a $4 As Gladys moved about, staying with friends, front steps, bawling his eyes out for his Yet, even after Vernon's early 1939 release for the family. They spent years bouncing between different assistance housing. There's a great little legend attached to Aged four, Elvis is supposed to have overheard them not to worry, because he'd buy them Needless to say, this childish boast would Gladys could've ever predicted. And so life passed. Vernon continued doing odd-jobs, the family finally started school. But, even now, there were signs of the legend In 1945, one of Elvis's teachers overheard She was so impressed by his voice that she he insisted Elvis enter a talent show. That was how, on October 3, ten year old Elvis Fair and Dairy Show and sing "Old Shep." The event was broadcast on WELO Radio, the any rate - heard Elvis Presley's voice. While we'd love to tell you that some stock "gadzooks! This kid's got something!", the reality Instead, Elvis placed a paltry fifth in the Except, of course, it wasn't. On Elvis's 11th birthday, Gladys took him Elvis was determined to either get a rifle that just thinking about them gave the overprotective So she convinced her son to make do with a him out of trouble. And that's how, in January, 1946, Elvis (TITLE): Home of the Blues The next big shift in young Elvis's life That month, Vernon and Gladys moved all the For their music-loving son, it was like spending only to suddenly discover Spotify exists and, Although the family were still in public housing, with country, with gospel, with anything that At school, too, the new city meant a new Elvis. Suddenly, the boy was wearing his hair long back, and pairing it with colorful, stylish Out went Elvis, the momma's boy and teacher's In came Elvis: the rock n' roll rebel. At least, that was the image. In reality, Elvis pretty much stayed out of suggested. OK, so let's jump forward a few years now; War, and right on to the summer of 1953, where trucks. At this point, America is on the cusp of becoming The portable transistor radio was months away Little Richard had just signed with Peacock a Thing. Teens were starting to become consumers, leading In short, it was a world transforming, with leader. It would find him in Memphis. That summer, 1953, Elvis got a $4 advance Service to cut a single. In later years, the King would say he simply But since the service was owned by Sun Records' wanted to get noticed. Not that that immediately happened. After famously telling the assistant at the Elvis cut his record, paid his four bucks... ...and nothing. For a whole year Elvis waited, driving trucks At some point in those twelve months, he must've gonna go anywhere. Then, on June 26, 1954, he finally got the Marion Keisker at Sun Records wanted to know As Elvis later said: "I was there by the The session Elvis sang in that day wasn't to call him back on July 5. That day, nothing much seemed to be happening No magic, no nothing. Bummed out, everyone took a break. And that's when it happened. To unwind, Elvis casually started playing That's All Right, only with a faster tempo As he played, session guitarist Scotty Moore Suddenly, the song was transformed into something Into a whole new sound. The trio cut their single that same day. None of them could've known it as they left evening, but they'd just found their golden When That's All Right hit the airwaves, (TITLE): That was the Summer of '54... When fame came for Elvis, it didn't slowly It grabbed him like some kind of out-of-control stratosphere. On July 8, local station WHBQ was handed Elvis's When they did, the switchboard lit up like So many people called in, that WHBQ played And again. And again. By the time the show ended, Elvis's record People were going nuts. From that point on, Elvis's destiny was He was gonna be the biggest damn star Memphis That summer was a wild one for the boy and From driving trucks, Elvis was suddenly being South, playing endless gigs. Because they only had that one record, that's Johnny Cash later recalled seeing Elvis at and over, like a record stuck on repeat. Yet people loved it. Try and image, for a moment, how it must've How it must've felt, driving from town to blowing through your slicked-back hair, knowing It must've been magical. The sort of feeling you can't ever recapture. On October 16, Elvis played the Louisiana to 13 states. The response was so good that the producers there. It meant enough money to quit his day job. But Hayride is important in the Elvis story A month after Elvis began his contract, a A guy who claimed he came from West Virginia, Yep, it's time to introduce Colonel Tom A major impresario in the south, Parker is tempting to think he stepped out a Hollywood He claimed to be American, but was really His title of colonel was only honorary, and he'd deserted. His past was full of weird tales, like running until he was too fat to fight in WWII. He likely wasn't a naturalized US citizen; fled the Netherlands after killing someone. But Parker did have one vital skill. He knew talent when he saw it. And he knew how to make that talent a household Elvis finally met Parker on January 15, 1955. Immediately, Parker began to muscle into the manager out the picture. At times, this was done via ballsy moves, to buy Elvis out his Sun Records contract At others, it was done via almost sociopathic Within days of James Dean's death in a car to Warner Bros., insisting they just stick But if Elvis disapproved of these methods it. On November 21, 1955, Elvis signed the RCA It netted him $5,000, plus a guarantee that On January 28, 1956, Elvis sang for the first Show. At the time, Elvis was a mere 20-years old. By the time he turned 21, he would be the the planet. (TITLE): The of Controversy When Elvis arrived on the national stage, We don't just mean as a white guy playing We mean something almost more concerning to Elvis was sexy. You know those images of Beatlemania, with any Beatle who wasn't Ringo? That was Elvis in 1956. Something about the way he wiggled his hips And that meant sending the parents of those At a concert in Jacksonville, Florida, a judge Elvis for "impairing the morals of minors" In his hometown of Tupelo, a hundred National from breaking out. This wasn't music. It was something dangerous. The oral equivalent of James Dean in Rebel But Elvis had the good luck to ride this cultural At the beginning of 1956, an outraged Ed Sullivan By September, Elvis was playing the Ed Sullivan - 80 percent of the viewing audience. 1956-Elvis may have started out dangerous him. Making him rich, but also leaving him about By January, 1957, Ed Sullivan was even telling boy." But the real nail in his rebel coffin arrived That was the month Elvis was drafted. The King may have played the rebel onstage Southern patriot. He accepted his commission without complaint. For teens in the grip of Elvismania, this Tens of thousands of letters flooded the draft But the King wanted to go. On 24 March, 1958, Elvis reported for duty. His hair and sideburns were shorn off in front basic training. Before he went, Colonel Parker made the boy over the next two years, to stop his star But while Parker would succeed in keeping be able to maintain the sexy aura Elvis had That was now gone forever. Over in Germany, Elvis began the newest, and In September, 1959, the 24-year old star met as the future Priscilla Presley. The problem? In 1959, Priscilla was only 14. And so we come to the most difficult part It's true that this was a different time. Jerry Lee Lewis, Chuck Berry, Charlie Chaplin Page, David Bowie, and Iggy Pop would all On the other hand, a man in his twenties having then as it is now. And Elvis seemed to know this. Although he and Priscilla did many things - presumably so Elvis could avoid a statuatory The worst of Elvis's behavior is usually But his seduction of an underage girl suggests much darker. The King's stint in the army finally ended That day, he was put on a military transport Just weeks later, he cut the Elvis is Back After two long years in the wilderness, the (TITLE): "What happened to good old rock The Sixties were a weird time to be Elvis. On the one hand, this was the decade when to worry about money again. On the other hand, it was also the decade Let's tackle the successes first. Between 1960 and 1968, Elvis released some the studio, and Colonel Tom Parker a tidy He also kept recording hits, although these way That's All Right had been. Still, Elvis and his family comfortably entered no-longer-underage Priscilla in Las Vegas Less than a year later, their daughter, Lisa OK, that's the highlights. Now let's dig into the less-good stuff. Although Elvis was doing well financially, were... not great. Artistically, watching 60s' Elvis was like Chapel by dedicating his life to paintings You can admire the craft, but... really? The slump in Elvis's taste can be easily Beatles. Although he and the Fab Four eventually had opening remark to the King was: "'Why do you do all these soft-centred ballads What happened to good old rock 'n' roll?'" It's not the only nail Lennon hit squarely After their jam session, Lennon told people Although the King's hefty drug use is usually mid-60s he was already on that slippery slope. It was also during the '60s that Elvis likely The first references come from the start of Elvis liked to eat piles of junk food. Before the '60s were out, the King was turning We've read people say that, when he was could make Elvis feel normal again. Even his new marriage had its dark side. For whatever weird reason, Elvis was obsessed Priscilla later told an interviewer that Elvis: "had mentioned to me before we were married a woman who had a child." And that hangup remained. After Lisa Marie Presley was born, Elvis never Within a few years, the lack of contact would end their marriage. Yet, despite all this, the decade ended on In early 1968, Tom Parker had cut a deal with singing Christmas songs. But when the project got underway, it slipped a music industry legend. Sick of being a bland mass entertainer, Elvis as the '68 Comeback Special. Clad in black leather, his figure once again last time exuding cool. In a wide-ranging set, he rocked the classics, banter with the audience. By the time the curtain went down, over 42 and the feeling was undeniable. 1956 Elvis - sexy, dangerous Elvis - was back. But it was a fleeting moment. A last gasp of rock n' roll from a bygone A few months later, Elvis began his residency paid $1m annually to entertain tourists over And so, in the big fight in Elvis' head it was commercial success which won. (TITLE): The King is Gone (but not forgotten) The last 8 years of Elvis's life were like but also kind of darkly amusing. By Christmas, 1970, Elvis was so rich and on 32 handguns and 10 Mercedes as a present When Priscilla hit the roof, he stormed out declared that he wanted to meet the President. Which is how Elvis Presley came to be photographed so grateful he gave the King a badge from Drugs. By now, the once-polite Southern boy was rich by toadying yes men, and deep into a drug And what he wanted to do was keep on digging In February, 1972, Elvis and Priscilla separated, With his wife and child gone, Elvis seems planet Earth. Oh, sure, he still packed out the International He still found time to record late hits like But his life was by now simply one long-delayed By 1975, Elvis was living as an almost total after the sun had set, like some junk food-addicted Speaking of junk food, what had begun as comfort Elvis's favorite late-life snack was Fool's of hollowed-out bread, and cramming it full bacon, before deep-frying the whole thing. The average male consumes around 2,500 calories A single Fool's Gold Loaf contains over And Elvis never stopped with just a single In his last few months, Elvis started living his behavior degenerate into pure self-destruction. He would do stuff like fire his handguns at Once, he put a bullet into the wall next to yoghurt. Remember earlier, when we tried to imagine the summer of 1954? Well, let's try again now. Try to imagine what it must've felt like Locked away in Graceland, never seeing daylight. Your soul nothing but an empty void you keep Now compare those two mental images and ask Finally, all the abuse got too much for Elvis's On August 16, 1977, the King died in the bathroom sat on the throne. He was only 42 years old. When the news broke that the King was gone, Although the man who'd died had been a bloated, they were there to remember. They were there to remember the boy who, for their lives; opened them up a new and dangerous As Bruce Springsteen later said of Elvis's dream in all our ears and then we dreamed Today, the jury is still out on Elvis Presley. For every person whose teenage years were who only ever saw him as the sweaty fat guy taking a crap. Yet there's no doubt that Elvis was an important Here was a man who almost single-handedly Take away Elvis and you have no Beatles. No Rolling Stones. No foundation for modern music. He may have done some morally dubious things. He may have ended his life as a parody of But there's no doubt that Elvis deserves young man in the summer of 1954, the window ready to change