so this is Brian Johnson's, olive oil. so Brian Johnson, I don't know I think I've come across him. Yeah, not not really in any great detail, He's based in the States. He's based in the States. Yeah. So he's, an entrepreneur, a longevity athlete. and he's come up with a range of products every day, olive oil He allocates, daily calories And obviously, as someone who spends and all the longevity toolkits all the longevity, interventions, in this particular product It's about PS45. and I can't really see much in terms of where it's been sourced So I have. A look at it. So the first thing is To to some degree, it's a good thing that influencers and are out there You know, that's a good story to tell I guess then you've got to be a little bit cautious about, about when they start talking about their own, I'm gonna talk a bit more Yeah. But, we've got to kind of scrutinise it it's a product of Portugal does produce some very fine This is all about it So you got to trust it. Yeah. interestingly, It just really talks about Brian, and his, UV resistant glass bottle. you know, it's good to have it in a dark light and oxygen so degrades oil, And, you know, again, they do have olive oil, including often with sofrito, in the morning. but there's not much else about it. We're not getting the variety. We're not getting a harvest date. we're getting a oh, we're we're okay. We're getting what's called a filled day. Oh, a full day. Okay. Now, this is quite interesting the harvest date because the producer will put it in great huge stainless steel towers with nitrogen Okay. So the oil can sit in there Now the will be some degradation And sometimes, despite what You know, it gets hot in the So it's got a filled date. So that doesn't tell me It could have been sitting in the Yeah. Yeah. So it could be And then it's got a which is what you get. You allowed this 18 months after you, you. Put it. By the bone. But that's not taking into account But actually there's some degradation that's going on, some oxidation So so, that he doesn't give a harvest date, but I'm. Just going to go through it they've got some extra information So you ask for harvest date I don't know whether it matches up It says that it's November But then there's also May 2023 Australia. So okay, now that's good. So what he's actually doing going to the hemisphere So he's been to Australia in So actually I credit him with that. That's good. and then he's this is the same harvest. So it's a little bit confusing for me but that's is the most recent harvest, And November, it depends. You can't you can't say whether November is an early harvest or not and unless you know the conditions, groves in Spain, for By the time you get to the end of November they're bringing less, less good oil I've also got some extra information This is really interesting actually. I after listening to you So for the Portugal November 2023 harvest, it's got the polyphenol content And this is 484. So that's higher above the 250 threshold 72% oleic acid, which is the. about average really for for, They've also got some extra information and the sensory, analysis defects, which is really interesting. is the peroxide levels that, Should be as low as possible. because that's the measure So that is he's basically saying according to the chemistry. But most of these oils could well, to show you these levels, these levels, And there's no defects Which is zero out of ten defects. Should be no So, so it's I mean, it's good. The acidity is 0.16%. So actually that's very low, low acidity Okay. So so this is likely to have been there are some, influencers out there and and and actually they're not all that some, some friends of mine have tasted one oil in the States I actually found it to be defective he's not making He's, he's he's making some implications. And I haven't seen his website Sure. But you've got to be very careful in terms of the health. Now, I can talk to European, and I can talk about they've taken experiments and low polyphenol oils, with early Alzheimer's, and they've shown polyphenols have have more So I can I can talk to you when it there is a whole different, discussion because health claims on the label, are rigorously enforced and rightly so. So there are some oils out there you've got to be cautious There are some websites out that that say, olive oil and you'll, You'll feel, Yeah. or it'll it'll, Right. All these famous expressions now, There are some antimicrobial properties But to pass the stringent to say something on a bottle is a is is a really, and so, he's not making any overt, as far as I can see. although there are some, but but yes. So but he's giving us quite a lot I haven't seen, I haven't seen the website whether or not it, you know, Yeah, yeah, yeah. 120. Yeah. I don't know about the sort of claims but there's some good information Okay. let's give it a taste test. So, this is the bottle. this is yours. And, will mess up. So same thing again. Warming up to room temperature. How how long would you do And, would every oil be, kept at the same temperature Yes. Wow. Exactly, exactly. It's a very rigorous process whether or not you know what I want Yeah. And one thing I would say about, good to see levels of polyphenols, Yeah. you don't want to be in at all. You don't want to be an arms race about it because, you know, that a very high polyphenol will poison what I think is really important that through a good quality with some grittiness, some bitterness will give you a certain level Yeah. And what really, really, that people understand virgin olive oil at an affordable price. Yeah. Because I think that, I think that whilst we can all celebrate Yeah. For me, my passion is to get everybody and that means daily. Yeah. And that can get expensive. Well like of that colour. But yeah so do you. How much do we, how much. $40. $40 of I think is PS45. And that's how big how much is that. I 750. Okay. So slightly, so slightly. But it's, but it's. But definitely more per litre. And I've seen an oil in the UK marketed you know, mount, you know, Yeah. They don't grow oil on the SUV's. Yeah. but, you know, I've seen these oils And, you know, that particularly if there are lots of health Yeah, yeah. Because actually, I think, you know, it's really important Absolutely. Affordable high polyphenol. High antioxidant. Yeah. High. And, You can get the same. What I, what I'm reading is from a really well Yeah, but let's taste this. We shouldn't. It's very tasty. Oil. It's a good, good oil. It's a good all that I think you know. It's it's It's a good example of a Yeah. Oil. And again, We didn't used to get very many, but the quality is improving Yeah. It's good. I can't say that I would notice between this oil and let's say, you know, or citizens of soil in terms of flavour, personally from untrained palate. I am getting a lot more pepperiness Yeah. The back of my throat from having that, I don't know if you are. Yes, I am getting slightly more pungency and I think that does relate and whether that, whether that makes it for people who are wanting perhaps Yeah, I like robust oils. Sure. this is quite robust. Okay. I think, I think for my for my salad I might kind of it might be a little bit Yeah. You know, you can imagine in the States, you can imagine that you can imagine Yeah. and in fact, actually, in a high pallet polyphenol, but a high polyphenol, extra virgin it decreases the formation amine compounds, which Yeah, it protects the meat from which produces the, which we're concerned Yeah. So, there's a lot of good reason Yeah. And this would be a good oil to, your stay safe. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Because of the high for the phenols. Well, and because a steak a steak Yeah, yeah. but I think, you know, for me, were, were a little bit more subtle letting that sit sit with me now Yeah. It's almost becoming a little bit kind of Yeah. And then you lose the other more subtle Totally. Yeah. Yeah. So it's about I. Didn't you could tell the intention Yes. In this. Case. And there are some and there are some who are producing small bottles Yeah. Really high polyphenol. Yeah. I mean, we've been talking I mean, But but but they are Can just spray them on or something. Yeah. You don't have them in But I mean, you know, for a medicinal, olive oil because, we should be getting 30 to 50 mils Yeah. You know, cooking with it, enjoying it, That's the way Not through a, not through a shot. Probably is is is is my opinion. Although, you know, I by the side of the road I've also met a Greek, And, you know, as people. As people, get over 100. They often their appetites, go off. But she she used to swear by a shot a small glass of red wine And just some little bit of yoghurt some locally produced honey, Yeah, yeah. And some Greek mountain tea. And that was her recipe But would she still had to have So. Yeah. So maybe there's something. That's the recipe for health. Just, you know, you got natural, honey. You know, those anti microbes You have your probiotics in the yoghurt. Mountain tea That's perhaps maybe the the Odyssey olives. the full library of podcasts We talk about everything and food as medicine. Just like this episode right here. You can click it