Welcome to my channel. Today, I will talk about how we should take care of the orchids whose flowers have faded and started to fall. The first thing you should look for in orchids with wilting flowers is the roots. The flowers of an orchid with rotting roots begin to fade and its leaves gradually begin to soften and droop. In such a case, the first thing to do is to change the soil of your orchid. Normally, I do not recommend repotting too much. But as you can see in this orchid, the orchid has completely withered. Yes, when you remove the pot, you can see that the roots are almost gone. The orchids you buy can have a sponge, especially in this way . The damage of this sponge to orchids actually comes from watering too much. If you water too much, it will absorb too much water. As with this orchid, its roots will rot completely and its inside will be emptied. If the orchid roots become stringy in this way, it indicates that the roots are completely dry and there is no sign of vitality in them. In such a case , the first thing you need to do is cut all the roots that are rotting, like wires. [Music] Yes, we need to disinfect the orchid after pruning and cleaning. I wash the orchid with its leaves. Because orchids can be infested and any disease. There are no roots left anyway. Look, I drain it like this after washing it thoroughly. Now all I need is a clove of garlic. I have told you about the benefits of garlic in many of my previous videos. I apply it especially because it has a high disinfecting feature. If you and your orchids have too much decay and infestation this way, you can disinfect your orchids by crushing a clove of garlic this way and putting some water on it. I pour my garlic juice into 1 liter of water. Look, I didn't put the remaining residue like this. and I will leave the orchid with its leaves in this way for 10 minutes . And so we will disinfect our orchid. I soaked it in garlic water for 10 minutes. I will keep it this way so that the water between the leaves of the orchid can drain and completely dry. This process is important and we will do the necessary actions on our orchid later . Yes, look, it's dry, now you see, the leaves and the trunk are also dry. Only I will pluck the branches of flowers. Because our orchid is already very weak and at the same time its leaves are soft and it has no roots so that it can give more strength to the roots. Look , I 'm plucking this flower branch, what we need is a plastic bottle like this. You can use it in a glass bottle if you want. It does not matter. The important thing is to be transparent. Look, you see the final version of the orchid . This is the leaves that soften like this and now I'm going to apply reverse water culture to this orchid. Reverse culture means a process where only the tip of the orchid leaves touches the water and the stem is up. And while applying this process, I will apply it especially in the greenhouse with reverse water culture so that it can produce fast results. look for this , I'm making small holes. this is important. because I make holes especially on it so that the body part of our orchid can get air so that it does not get moldy . If you do not drill holes , the stem of the Orchid may rot or mold. pay attention to this. See, this is how I'm closing it. And you can stick it to the edges with hairpins or a tape if you have it. In this way, we apply greenhouse so that our orchid in reverse water culture can give results without losing moisture quickly . Especially when you do this, you can put it on a window sill that gets plenty of light . Thus, it will show faster results. Yes , I would like to show you the result on an orchid that I have applied before. Look, if I show you this closely, I have applied this orchid in reverse water culture before. But I tried it with the greenhouse method to get faster results. Look, you see, it has 3 small roots right now and I will show you the future version of this orchid. Look again. I want to show you the result more closely. As you can see, the roots have grown. Because in the Greenhouse method, the roots are more moist. It holds more moisture, which helps the roots of the Orchid to grow faster. As you can see, the roots have grown. You will definitely get results with this method . but never spray water on the body part. this is the wrong method. If you try this method, the stem of your orchid will definitely mold and rot. Because you wrote in some comments that you watched from different channels and did not get results. The correct application method is important here . Definitely the body part of the orchid should not be wet. look, a new root is coming out. If you do this method as I described, it will definitely start to grow small roots after 2 or 3 weeks. The important thing is your correct application. Because everyone's method is different. Look, this is my other orchid. As you can see right away it started to grow a small active root. this is my orchid in reverse water culture that I showed you before . If we keep these orchids in this way, the roots of your orchid will grow in 3 months. It will also produce new leaves. You see, it has very active and healthy roots. We can already plant such an orchid. I hope this video was useful for you. I tried to explain you with all the details. If you have watched my video so far and liked it, if you do not subscribe to my channel by pressing the like button immediately, you can subscribe to support me. You can make lots of comments and ask questions in the comments section. Goodbye, stay healthy.