- I brought three of to compete in the Ultimate VFX challenge. I brought three &quot;Magic from around the world to They'll only have 72 for every single piece of equipment. We packed so much into this video. You won't believe how far they went to be crowned the ultimate magic maker For the first challenge, I've hidden everything they within this mansion. They must search the house and fit everything they If any gear is outside of the I've also hidden some surprises. Huge shout out to Nomatic for Now, I've got a huge advantage inside of this bag. We'll see if anybody finds it. By the way, you're gonna and this is the only for the competition. On your mark. Get set. Go. And they're off. Oh, only Brandon saw the C stands. - It's touching the tape. - Run, for the love of cameras. I hear a lot of screaming. - Can I carry more than I'm gonna assume so. - 40 seconds. Oh, they have nothing, dude. - [Brandon] There's not enough time. Oh my God. - [Zach] Now, you're probably wondering why I'm doing this video. Over three years ago, &quot;Magic of the Month&quot; visual effects videos. After our final episode, I promised an explosive ending to this series and the winner of this and star in a magic video that has the potential of going out to over 100 million people. This video is even crazier Wow. Okay, they got a big haul. Sofian's got the important stuff. Nice, Sofian got the C stand. (dramatic music) - Oh God, I need a camera. - Brandon didn't get a camera yet? You have 15 seconds left. You guys better be scrambling. - I need an editing apparatus. (dramatic music) I haven't got a laptop. - [Announcer] 10, nine, eight, seven- leg in. - Six, five- - [Announcer] Four, three, two, one- Oh no, oh no. Oh. Okay, there's a couple (tense music) With the final tally, Eva's C stand and sandbag were eliminated. Sofian, you found everything. And Brandon, you didn't grab a laptop? While they finalized their video ideas, I gave them each a hundred dollars to use towards any props they need. Looks like they're going - I'm trying to call FedEx. Their phone line's in Spanish. - [Zach] This is Brandon. He's made some really cool and he's from the United Kingdom. This guy, I noticed, just likes to yell. - Run. I need a camera. I need an editing apparatus. - Hey, this is Dutch. Paper, English, and papau, I don't know. - [Zach] Eva's another creator for &quot;Magic of the Month.&quot; She came all the way out I can't wait to see what she's gonna make. - Yeah, so this is only $20, so I can buy four. - This is Sofian. I've seen him create so many over the years, and I a couple years ago when - [Brandon] So we've gotta work out, how do we get image from - [Cameraman] Which ones do you want? - I think this one. - [Cameraman] All right. - We've got $36 left to spend. - [Zach] While contestants I'm setting up the craziest challenge yet. Welcome to Malibu. I'm a couple hundred feet in the air, where contestants will have the slack line to get their upgraded gear. Each contestant will have 60 For each flag clipped into their harness, I'll upgrade their camera, This terrorizing challenge - [Brandon] For the love of God! - Whoa. Keep going. (dramatic music) - Let's start with Eva. Are you ready? 60 seconds is on the clock. - Oh. (epic music) - You've got this. The conditions are getting It's starting to rain. Okay, she's gonna get Uh oh, she's shaking. All right, 30 seconds left. She's just gotta go fast. - [Eva] Whoa. Whoa. - [Zach] 10 seconds left. You've got this. Five, four, three- - [Zach] Two, one, that's time. Yeah, you faced your fears. - I was very shaky. I'm so glad I'm back. - [Zach] Okay Sofian, you're up next. Three, two, one, go. He's an absolute animal. - Whoa. Whoa. (epic music) - Okay, he's got the first flag. 45 seconds left. - Whoa. - Whoa, whoa. - He keeps like going back - I can, I can get it. - Hurry Sofian, get it! Get it. Get it, Sofian. - That's time. Way to go, Sofian. Unfortunately, he didn't He didn't clip it in time. Great job on the two. - When I go there, it's really So I left all my fear back. - Alright, Brandon's up next. I'm scared for him. - Oh my God. - And go. - [Brandon] Oh my God. (Brandon screams) - [Zach] Why are you going so slow? (Brandon grunts) You have 45 seconds left. He hasn't even gotten one of 'em yet. - [Brandon] Come on. There we go. Whoa. - You have 30 seconds left. Brandon, I'm rooting for you, but you're wasting a lot of time. - We've got this. - Oh, oh, oh. 10 seconds. Get the other one. - [Brandon] Quick. Oh. I'm falling. I'm falling. - Whoa, whoa. No, he's off, he's off. - I think that was my problem, that I tried to go so quickly, but I lost balance and I ended But we got two upgrades in the bag. - [Zach] After the slackline competition, each contestant upgraded their camera, with Brandon and Sofian and tripod packages. We're heading back to the - Let's get it. - Nomatic was kind enough so we hooked you up with some bags. You guys can pack your - Yeah, let's do it. - [Zach] While the contestants are packing their brand new backpacks, let me tell you a little So they hooked up the contestants but I actually asked Nomatic to you, and they actually said yes. So I'm giving away 10 and just so you know, I've for the last couple years and personal trips, and that So if you want a chance sign up at the link below. I'm giving away 10 of 'em. In the meantime, let's filming their projects. Each contestant has picked an Contestants only have four - Today, I'm a chef. - [Zach] Sofian's mirror to pull off. He's 3D tracking apples, and he's got a lot of work ahead of him. - Yes. - So this isn't my bedroom. It's all in the name of art. - I ask for forgiveness later. I didn't win a microphone yesterday. So I'm gonna be using and then stick the iPhone a bit closer and use the microphone from Okay, now I'm gonna attempt of myself. - It's raining, so I need to improvise. I can't, like my phone is all wet. - [Zach] Eva used her prop but the weather's crazy outside until the rain stops. Are you nervous you - I think it will be fine. We've got two and a half hours. - Yeah. Without a tripod, Eva had to get creative with getting the best shot. Welcome to &quot;Master Chef.&quot; Put the frosting on. Let's go. Sofian's secrets are revealed now. He uses frosting tracker (funky music) (tape ripping) Now, that's boarding. Put this in here. High five. - He's going psycho here. Looks like the weather's cleared up, so Eva heads out to start filming. I like your tripod. Can't win a tripod, build one. Eva not only had to wait for the rain, but now she has to wait for With this trick, everything Every time he films, he and then go back to filming again. He's starting to run out of time. (clock ticking) - Okay, I'm now so behind and Ah, what was my next line? There are still so many I don't know if I'm gonna - 10 minutes remaining. Are you stressed? - A little. - [Zach] Oh, this is gonna be close. - Six minutes to get back. - So we've only got two minutes left, and we haven't started We're gonna quickly rush so we've got something - [Zach] Five, four- - [Zach] Three, two, one, everyone that is a wrap on your sets. It is two o'clock. Brandon, that is a wrap. - No. - All right, so we're moving but before we do that, we're actually gonna out on the beach. If contestants wanna and earn a fully loaded MacBook Pro, then they're gonna have Oh, this is gonna be rough. Each contestant must of bugs and snakes. If they complete the challenge, they'll earn a supercharged MacBook Pro. First up, we have Brandon. - Snakes I'm okay with. It's Come on laptop. Go, time's begun. - Oh. - Okay. (crew cheers) - [Juliana] How is that? - It's horrible. - I wanna barf. - Oh, it's the worst - [Juliana] How does it smell? - Oh, horrific. - Brandon, you need that laptop. - Oh my God. - 30 seconds. - No, no! (Brandon shrieks) - [Crew] Five, four, three, two, one, time. - Okay, so, so. - Oh God. God! I don't even know if it was Tonight, I'll definitely be grateful. That was the worst thing I've ever done. - Next up we have Eva. On your mark. Get set. Go. (Eva shrieks) - Oh. - [Juliana] Just taking it in. Killing it. You're killing it. - I know. I need to focus. - Okay, we're halfway there. - [Juliana] Here we go. - 30 more seconds. It's going in the ear. Look at the ear. - [Crew] Five, four, three, two, one. - You were good. You want - No, she wants to keep it in there. (crowd cheers) Also, if you're wondering giving evil laughs in the background, this is Juliana, our animal So don't try this at home. Okay, you got this Sofian. - I come from Malaysia. I need to show that Let's do this. (crowd cheers) What is the smell? - Timer is beginning Time's begun. (dramatic music) Every time it doesn't get easier. Oh. They're on his glasses. He should've taken off the glasses. - The smell is really bad. - Sofian, you're halfway. You're halfway. - The last one. (Sofian groans) - [Zach] You're so close. You're so close. - [Juliana] You got it, - Oh, oh, oh gosh. Oh gosh. - [Crew] Five, four, three, two, one. (crowd cheers) - Get his glasses. Get his glasses. Oh my God. - I hope Malaysians are proud. - Was it worth it? - No. - [Zach] Since they all they'll be receiving a Competitors edited throughout the night and now only have three So they might be a little bit tired. - The secret to becoming is actually just to do sound work. Here's a match cut. It's a set up. No. See? It looks horrible. It's boring. But we add It's a set up. No. Whoa. So I'm gonna go round and just record like a bunch of crazy sounds FBI, open up. Hands where I can see 'em. (shoes slapping) (fabric rustling) - What is that? (Brandon tapping) - [Brandon] Hello. - You guys good in here? - Yeah, we weren't doing - All right, cool. With three hours remaining, I have one last trick up my sleeve. So I hid a clue in their Nomatic bag leading them to a riddle, they get a disadvantage to I hid two keys in this mansion. The first key is in the masterpiece and the second key is in the - [Brandon] God. - Key is in the masterpiece. - Hello guests. The most important meal of Oh my God. - Can I check out your pocket? - Sure. What are you doing? Why is he touching me? - It says, &quot;Surprise in every box.&quot; - I'll tell you right now, it's not in me. - Okay, sure. - Okay. - All right, I'm sorry. - Nope. - [Crew] It's got to be somewhere. - Nope. Oh, key. What do we do with said key? - [Crew] It's got to be somewhere. - [Sofian] We need to open the box. - Can we take it out of there? (tense music) - [Zach] Whoa, before we see editing can be one of of a great video. It requires extreme focus, quick thinking, and zero distractions. These boxes, well, they - I don't like where this is going. - [Zach] Brandon chose for the next 30 minutes while he edits. - First time? - [Sofian] Yeah. - [Zach] Wasn't happy So he returned the favor that was a little more distracting. The way everyone's sprinting out the room. (trumpets blaring) (band shouting) The only thing I need to do is the sound. And I can't hear anything. (Nate screaming) - It's so loud. (trumpets blaring) - Bathroom break? Yeah, just you stay now. (trumpets blaring) What is going on? (crew cheers) Goodbye. - [Zach] The 30 minutes is up, so Sofian and Brandon - Now that that's out of the way, there's literally one hour remaining. - Contestants need to inside this box or else Contestants, you have Everyone is exporting He's still editing. Five minutes left. I'm getting stressed for them. - Export is done. (dramatic music) - Made it. - [Zach] There is two minutes left. - Okay, 10 seconds. Eject, eject, eject. Go, go, go, go. (intense music) That was almost gonna be it. - [Zach] 10 seconds, Sofian. - Yes. - You made it. I thought for a second Congratulations on getting and in the boxes. I'll see you guys up at the premiere. (contestants applaud) To help me judge these videos, I've brought in some celebrity guests. I've got Ren from Corridor Digital, Adam Savage, and Happy Kelli. First up, we have Brandon. - Hey, I'm Brandon B and this is my Google auto complete interview. Is Brandon a super fan of Zach King? Yeah, Zach is my inspiration, favorite creator out there. Is Brandon stealing from Zach King? I dunno what you're talking about. I've never stolen any of Zach's ideas. So did a Brandon commit identity fraud stealing Zach King's personal on the 12th of April of over $50,000? It's a set up. No. - [Agent] We have you surrounded. (sirens blaring) (audience applauds) - At first, I was about to make fun of you for pandering to this guy over here. But then I saw that that was the point and I fell in love with it. The visual effects. Snappy, classic Zach King It was well done. - Thank you. Thanks. - A lot of people think that jump cuts are the easiest tricks to do, but the fact that you've shot that alone, like I never do my jump It's impossible to make 'em look good. So props to you. (audience applauds) Next up, we have Eva. (warped sound effect) (Eva knocking) (stone crumbles) - Hey Siri. Video call Ryan. - Hey Eva. - Hey Ryan, great timing. - Hey, where are you? - I'm right behind you. - What? Wow, you're here. - Hey, how's it going? - Good. - Let's head out. - Let's do it. (audience applauds) - I love the ambition. The idea of someone from inside a phone moving the icons felt like that had never occurred to me. And I love you coming out That's a great idea. - Eva, I'm a big sucker and I love that it solves Like if you got stuck in a And then you FaceTime a friend So it's just really creative - Thanks, Zach. - [Zach] Finally, we have Sofian. - We all knew that mirror (knife taps) But sometimes, mirrors give (knife taps) It gives me cake. So delicious. (audience cheers) - I loved that video so much. Unlike these guys, I didn't know where you were going with it. But I was like on the edge of my seat waiting for what was gonna happen next, and the cake thing blew my mind. I don't know how you did that. Did you bake a cake? - No. - [Kelli] Okay, okay. - I'm so impressed, Sofian. I love your storytelling and that combined is So I'm just excited for you to - Thank you. - [Zach] Now it's time their final votes. And the winner of the Ultimate Sofian. - I'm really grateful. My feet is shaking right now. Thank you so much. - Congratulations to our winner, Sofian. Thanks to the celebrity judges. Again, thanks to Nomatic for sponsoring. And if you enjoy it, like and subscribe. (crowd cheers)