Five ways you can be so irresistible, he'll never want to leave. Ladies, how would it be to actually forever just commit to you so that whether he's going to ever leave your not? We want to find that person And this is the thing, you can! I know that we live in a very harsh spoiled and much less loyal I do believe that one of the reasons is for them than before. Women are more And especially with online dating, they can now just download any app a woman is there waiting, ready this doesn't mean that just because that we cannot achieve such a relationship strings attach, or maybe you say no Well, I wouldn't know, obviously. Now there are ways on that men simply find too irresistible to leave. And ladies, I'm going to share you my Number one, set boundaries. We all know that men should my question to you is And I'm serious. What do you do in your everyday Or let's put it like this, why is the man still not waltzing around Let's face it. That's the real life Now let me give you some tough love. You do not know how We all know that we should be respected, but we don't really know The answer, however, is very easy. Like it's ridiculously easy, yet not many women I'm talking about the boundaries, setting boundaries. you communicate a message that tells Most women have weak boundaries unfortunately in a society that into our own power. Instead, we give power to all of our and actually also to all these I would say probably majority of women at least not worthy enough. we know that no man should treating us poorly. We know that we and we really deserve to be treated Well, when you send out that energy, That's the treatment you're going women included are going to there is no faster way by raising just by the simple word boundaries. a high value woman and she's not setting boundaries. A high value woman knows going to like it and But you know what? Many started to leave me when But let me tell you one thing, ladies, my life really started upgrading I really started demanding respect, which also gave me a lot of confidence. It's really important to be that woman The one who sees herself highly and And ladies, just do not confuse because that's totally different. Yes, there are people and become truly narcissistic. But what I'm talking about respecting yourself and Because when you treat yourself other people will treat you with respect. And my higher value women are not not desperate for attention, not desperate to have a man around Please let your new year's resolution who do not treat you the way If you do not know your worth I want you to start communicating But most importantly, start Because as soon as you start other people will adapt. Number two, Now we all know that there's who never shows emotions. However, this stereotype is actually not really women find it easier to but this doesn't mean that men don't have From my experience and what I've seen attach the most to woman are the vulnerable with her. And she will not be judging them Maybe it sounds a bit corny to some, but I really do think that if you create that allows the man to really talk burdens him. And who knows? I mean, he might even cry on a when a man have these they tend to value this type more than the kind of hot one night stands. It is harder for men to connect to many men feel very easily judged So if the man has a woman by his side, who is incredibly supportive in this or make fun of the guy. Believe me, there are women If you are there by his side, you will have a man who will open up to to leave you anytime soon. Because he simply wants to have many these moments with. And trust me, all men need that to express these but not everybody allow So make sure your man Number three, get rid of those insecurities. Gone. Guess what causes the most Well, besides miscommunication, A man starts absolutely a hundred a relationship when all he has Having a girlfriend who is so that she starts creating all this paranoia get over her and or I don't know, maybe he's jealous men can do this too but we talk with all of these paranoia and There are jealousy. There are doing things behind not trusting the person whatsoever. And that's where probably the biggest who knows where insecurities Maybe it's a lack of self esteem or maybe the person has had Maybe you are so used of having men being for signs that your man guess what's going to happen? He actually ends up leaving you. but because you drove him mad. just because we are women I know that the most common in a woman. And it's also a big how are we going to cure ourselves? My method in curing my own therapy, awareness and that's If you do not afford therapy, at least start becoming Start recognizing them when they start questioning them. Is this just an illusion in Go back into your pain points where into you because that's what But you can kind of do a The most important thing is that you that's the only way to heal. Number four, get a life. Yes, ladies, you heard me, right. I don't want you to only I don't want you to hang around the I don't want you to obsess So please get a life. You see, what happens is that the the moment the man feels that he needs earn your affection. They start liking it. Their minds are wired to thrive how else would they be genetically wired That's the men's game. We all know that we shouldn't be because then he will not value the and the time that you give to him. I'm not just saying like, okay, go start working and just think No, of course I'm talking about if you do not want to work, Maybe you can also step into your feminine activities like nesting your maybe some hobbies too. Not every woman has to become That does not define a woman to What I am saying is that do not watching the Kardashians and You are not going to be very interesting Because trust me, he's not interested And ladies, when the interest disappears, So for that reason, ladies, Number five, nurture him without being a doormat. Now there is this fear among some women. They think that they need to be very I think that this fear might be coming a pick me woman. It is basically a nickname for a among the whores of women. So desperate that she will do anything She would be cooking, Now, this is how I see it. If you are going to be just not to be a pick me a woman. You might actually end up attracting being bossed around by a woman, etc. But I think, it's important to find which is why I believe that it's very in the relationship. But again, not saying to become his doormat or his again, we spoke about boundaries You can actually nurture while setting strictoundaries. It's about being strict a man is not going to take for He will always keep on his toes But you set boundaries, giving him the reward But also showing him what at his best behavior. You see, the female nurture is truly Us ladies, we are indeed sitting on a gold mine with your femininity, your love not talking about being a doormat. This is a powerful tool that This is how he gets also hooked on that love and care that he Yes, he can go and have a one night stand, It's more special. It's more real. In my program, which is by the way, opening the enrollment soon. We are talking so much about boundaries base recipe of being a high value A woman that has upgraded herself found her power, elevated her lifestyle as well. It all goes hand in hand with each other. If you still haven't put yourself on www.SchoolOfAffluence.com and make sure that you register very, very soon. Now, ladies, we have spoken today about how but what about how to get his In the next video, which actually you really have to watch it. It's called, How To Make Him Beg For Your Attention. And ladies, I'm going to see you in that video.