[twangy guitar playing] [Peter] Crisfield, Maryland, off to Smith Island. Smith Island has roughly 200 people Their accent traces back to the early I've been told Some haven't left We're meeting up with an old school local. A crabber who's family's He told me, &quot;Peter, I can show you and it's totally different Let's do this. [twangy guitar playing] [Peter] Here we are [Jerry] The capital. [laughs] -So Jerry, since the 1600s, Yeah, 1650 the first ancestor So it's telling me they're -Oh, wow. [Peter] And then here That one looks abandoned, huh? -Somebody lives there, -The one with the plywood on the windows? So who lives out here? People that grew up here obviously to get away from society? Yeah, pretty much people and want to retire somewhere peaceful. [Peter] That place looks [Jerry laughs] Nobody's every lived in that house There's only a few places like that. When I was a kid Okay, so growing up here I think when I was a kid -Okay, we're down to two? [Jerry] I'd say about What year was that? Somewhere around the early '90s, Crabbing got really bad So everybody... you know, It was healthcare, -Oh, prison on the mainland? -No cops on the island at all? Used to be a sheriff here -So you guys self-regulate? This post office used to fly because we were Tories -Till the late what '60s? -1960s. Yeah, used to fly [Peter] Okay, so you have -Yeah, back then they did because they were pretty much They had to side with the British, The Brits and French were fighting it out The American Revolution, It was a little after. I found a cannon ball not too long ago That was when it was over, 1782. -You found a cannon ball? Yeah, it's called chain shot. I remember reading the history the British Commander ordered Which is two cannonballs and it's used to take out -Interesting. -This place burned down recently? A wild fire cut across here -All right, this is the end of Ewell? Going to Rhoade Point. Going to the hood. [both laughing] -Is this where you live, Jerry, the hood? The road to Rhoade Point, -Something like that? [Jerry] All these places over there, before I was born. -That green island there? There was a dock there, -Why is no one living there? Because after the farming, and then it was a lot of salt water, The ocean was rising, and rising, and all this land that used to be -This was farm land back in the day? They're called ridges. That's where they came and lived. If you dig into that because they were there first. I've dug several artifacts out of my yard. Two arrowheads, and a lot of chips, -You still have 'em? That's your dump? -That's what's called the burn pile, and stuff like that will burn. This is all weight goods, they call it. 'Frigerators, washing machines, All the metal, then that gets Okay. And all the scrap from the burn pile, A bulldozer and a big truck and scrape all that up. This is where the pirate used to live. Used to be called Rogue's Point. -The pirates lived? One of the guys, -So pirates of the Chesapeake Bay, -Naw, we talk about pirates, -Yeah. -But I think there's is They were stealing your cargo. Either right here or over that way From what I understand and have read, take all the pieces and then just use it for firewood. [Peter] You don't need -Eh, technically I think you do You can buy a little $25 thing and then -But when you don't have cops -Naw. [Jerry] This was my aunt's house. Two years ago now, and there's a viral video of it. It come right straight across here and turnt right here, and she was and the whole building and all She didn't get a scratch on her. -Wow, that's crazy. This used to be a restaurant back then. back in the day there was a gift shop -[Peter] Methodist church? But somewhere right around here, this road is over 300 and some years old. This piece of road right here. It's older than the USA. It's one of the oldest roads [Jerry] When you look you see All the names are represented. -What's your last name, Jerry? Oh, the island is named after you? -You're named after the island? Actually from what I understand he came here in the 1600s, and he... what's called a patent. They would, I guess the king and they're called hundreds, and it meant that a hundred people This would probably been called or Bradshaw's Hundred. And it should be sufficient could live on a tract of land. -Hey, how you doing? [Jerry chuckles] He's a yarney too. -He's a what? We call each other yarney which means... It's just like It means friend. -Yarney? So Tangier Island, for those Seven miles in that direction. [Jerry] How you doing? [man] Very well. [Jerry] We picked up some yesterday. We went fish Monday, had zero. Zero, so it was like, man... Four or five days would be Yeah. Just the kittie fish -They eating oysters. The man had it on their pictures. He had oysters, Yeah. How 'bout that? He wouldn't have... Uh-huh. [both chuckling] [tires skid] [man in truck] I've seen you on YouTube. -I've seen you on YouTube. How you doing? -Good, you? -I'm loving it out here. -It's pretty nice. Bugs eating us but... Nice to meet you. My name's Chad. -Chad, okay, nice to meet ya. -He's a Bradshaw. -I'm a Bradshaw. -Well, nice to see you. You're the first person [all laughing] -[Peter] Jerry's famous. [Jerry] See ya later. [Jerry] I was wondering if somebody... I knew it, I was like, -So does-- -I believe I recognize Not even from your videos -Don't know where. Coming into your dreams, Jerry. -I'll tell you-- I like to turn on YouTube and go to sleep. So you might have come across YouTube It's very possible. -So what's going on here? -This house and my house, both of these -This is your house? This is my wreck. [chuckles] -You got a leaky roof, Jerry? -Oh. I'm gathering a lot of you guys -You don't have home insurance? At the time they promised us We moved somewhere else for seven years. When you leave a house like this open -What about FEMA? -They came in and said, They paid rent nine months, that was it. So when it rains you're having problems I don't even go in that part. -Oh, okay. -I come out here this morning -This is your work shed? -Are you guys called crabbers? -This where the magic happens, Jerry? [laughs] -And so this is the gateway to your work? So you go off here, you're bringing See the end of the wood, -Yep. -You throw this rope out and you drag it. I got a video of shows how I do it and you know, it's hard work. It's all in your back Sometimes it's side to side. You don't stop all day until you get home. -That's you crabbing? And you upload these to YouTube. I'll leave the link -Mm-hmm. [birds singing] -Is this what you guys -Yeah. -So when waves come in -Yeah, up until a point but it'll -Oh, really? So what about your house? -It'll come in it. That's usually about once every two years. -So the water comes over your floor? Oh yeah, I have -You just walk around in the boots? Hit the recliner and watch TV -Watch it come in, watch it go out. See the minnows swimming all around. -The minnows in your house? Jerry, you have such a good attitude. [laughing] Why not? [laughs] You can take your life any way you want. You can blame every and make it the worst possible life and make it the best possible life So we're taking the boat -This isn't your fishing boat is it? -Mines' right over there. -But this is better for cruising, huh? -You got a little school chair here. You get it there. -[Peter] Get this one? Oh, there we go, rookie mistake. -That's all right. When my son was a little kid that's and he'd get mad He'd make me go turn out and come back in. Jerry, I can't put it in words and I'm in the honeymoon period but there's a feeling here. Yeah. I tell you what, I've had people... This is true, a friend of mine, and he was the kind of person I mean like 2:00 in the morning, 2:00 in the morning, and he's been here he's back to island time. [both laughing] Did you bring out the Jaws shirt for -That's a classic. But I thought... it was clean. [laughs] [Jerry] See that one down there? That one down there, It was a preacher from a long time ago. His name was Joshua Thomas. They called him the parson of the island. He used to sail from Deal's Island and preach to all the islands and he preached to the British in the War of 1812 and they lost. [twangy guitar plays] [Jerry] This is one of my See the spot, the grass? -Yeah, a little bit. See that? That's Tangier. -Tangier? And over there you said Yes, it's completely different. How do they speak? It's a morn drawn out. They draw You would think 'cause they're only seven miles away but we sound more like They call it the Carolina Brogue. -Your accent? Okay, what is their accent? Elizabethan, they say but theirs sounds a little They're accent... God 'mighty, these bugs. -But it does sound older. -I'm gonna do this real quick, [laughs] Wow, let's keep this thing moving, -That is savage. -Yeah. -Okay, what's going on here, Jerry? -Right here in this little area right here this is where John Tyler He was born right here. Right in this one little place, That's my tenth great-grandfather. Does it feel amazing Yes, it is. Yeah. Those are serious roots. Wow, this is awful. -I didn't think they'd beat us there. -So this is where Smith Island started? You got the US Coast Guard? -Yeah, I guess he's here -I'm okay with leaving my backpack here? I think we can chain it to the chair... -So no crime on the island? I heard about somebody stole but that's about the only thing Somebody stealing gas or something. Right, you can't steal No, you're gonna know where it is. [boat creaks] Jerry, I'll impress you with my skills. -I worked on Lake Tahoe one summer. And let's see if I can do it one-handed. -Oh, there you go. You got her. -Something like that. -So this is Tylerton. Or Tylertown? -Yeah, it looks like it says -Tylerton? Like for the mountains we say, &quot;Mainten&quot;. -Mainten? Oh, and we talk backward too. I don't know if you paid attention If I see a real pretty girl I'll say, That means she is. -She ain't pretty none? -And everyone understands including her? Well yeah, you don't want to [both laughing] One of my best friends in the world. -What are you doing, Jeff? My friend... I thought that was you I figured we'd come down get some lunch. -How ya doing? -How you doing, sir? Peter. -Peter Santenello... Santenello? -Hello, ma'am This one's Ida. -[Peter] She ain't pretty none. [all laughing] He knew it. -He's learning. [all laughing] He's learning, yeah. We grew up together, me and Jerry did. -How was he as a kid? Wild man? Yeah, 'bout like we are the wild. I guess we've simmered down -They were all wild -Yeah, we were. So that's the Tylerton accent Yes, see his is See, he's a Tyler. He's related -You're related to John Tyler? [Jerry] Yes, he's What do you guys feel about the mainland? Do you just feel like Like totally removed? -Yeah, but more of the world's coming in. Just... fast outboards and... -I keep the people [all laughing] -You keep things in line out here? -I am a Southern girl. -I'm from West Virginia. Actually General Robert E. Lee We thought he married into our family [Jerry] Cool. I tell everybody I don't behave The world changed quick though. [Jerry] It's unbelievable, -Is that right? Okay. [Peter] So what's going on on the island I deliver the medicines -You deliver the medicine? So you drive around the golf cart -Yeah. I can still but I'm legally blind. I can't see your face -You're not missing out. But you can deliver the goods -Yeah, I use my glasses. She knows the roads her. She's lived here so long -This is your cargo boat coming in? -This is how you get -Yep, food and medicine, That's how it comes over. -So Captain Jasons-- I'll tell you something -Okay, what's that? -Oh, wow. You robbed the cradle? She was a cougar [Jerry] 'For they had a word for it. -[laughing] No, I said I'm a cougar, I gotta get the meds. -Once a cougar, always a cougar? -Actually two more boys married older women. -What do you think of the younger men? Younger men? Nowadays I don't give two cents for 'em. [all laughing heartily] [Peter] What is this, -This is your post office? This is the little... -That is so cool. I mean just everything -See ya later. [Peter] So this is normal to you, Jerry, These narrow streets, these old houses, -This is a little store. -Hey, how y'all doing? -How's it going? -It's Coast Guard? Oh, cool. -So you get a few tourists here, huh? Oh yeah, I don't know how bad when it's heavy it's like -Okay. -For about three hours it's a nightmare -'Cause they come over -Yeah. So you got pretty much -Uh-huh. -A nice little well-organized store. -Hello, how you doing? Allrighty. [woman] Hope you don't want a crab cake [Jerry laughs] [Peter] Let me get you, Jerry. Just these three drinks -I want a Snickers bar please. It's good they don't have crab because -Like the freshies? -I cooked them this morning. -Thank you. -Hey, how y'all doing? [Peter] Do you guys like when It's awesome, absolutely great out here. -Souvenirs for the fam? You don't make many trips out here -Thanks guys, take care. -See y'all later. [Jerry] It was five stores down here -It's just one now? -Another Methodist church? -Your dad's buried over there? On this... clear to the church, Smith. This one here, A little while ago -Are you serious? -The house next to me, 5,000, that's for a bad house, you know? They need work -That was ten grand? [Peter] So when the tide is up... -I can see there was water there. I'm sure it holds water there too. -It's going all the way up to that lawn? Okay, so when you were a kid you didn't Not here. Okay, so-- -That started in probably the late '80s, Used to be what they called spring tide and fall tide. -Uh-huh. -We'd have a week where the tide would but then it would go down every six hours. But you would have a week of it It wouldn't be no more until fall. -What's it now? -Now it's anytime [Jerry] This guy here, I heard he was the guy who invented color X-ray. Something to do with a colored X-ray. -He's since moved on or died? -See how the water will sit under a house? That's what happens. It'll set there and little by little -Okay. Is that why that house went for $10,000? -More than likely. -This one's for sale. -Yeah... Oh, I didn't know that. -What do you think? How much? I would think somewhere in the 35 to 50, -Okay. [Jerry] This is bad. That is marsh. These are muskrat... -Muskrat trails? -Yes, where the muskrats They really eat a yard up. This weren't this bad -Oh man, that's gotta be tough. This is where my house was. Our house was moved from Tylerton -They built it here, put it on a ship? -Yeah, and it wind up 'cause they had a bad storm and it sat Tornado ripped the roof off of that too. Probably eight or ten years ago. [Peter sighs] See now they're saying I swear this one looks older to me. -The red one? -Yeah, doesn't it look older -Maybe they just redid some things. -This is a cute house. -I think it looks like really old This used to be the crab co-op. The women... I guess it still is There's so few women to pick crabs. So the men are out on the water, Yes, what it would be, it would be -And bring it to their wives to pick. She would probably get -I would imagine that's closed. -So where's it happening now? In their homes. I bet it ain't four women on -I was reading the other day that where you couldn't do the crabs at homes. -Oh no, you can't. We're doing it here and now Pretty much because Yeah. So the right setup on the island, you got your crab shanty, you got your boat, you got your traps, for the most part as long Pretty much. Nobody tells me 'Cept when I was married, she'd I'm sure single life's -Eh... Yeah, not really. -Yeah, I mean-- They stumble around once in a while. -What.. the-- -Okay. -Ladies from the mainland come over? My last girlfriend, but she had a lot of children. They didn't really like the place. I drove her out to Pittsburgh, I never -Pittsburgh? Somewhere through Pennsylvania I'm not thinking I'm driving and I went too far on the side and caught, you know, Had to hop out in traffic. Here I am, from nowhere, luckily the people there Because everybody stopped and just I was like, &quot;Oh my God.&quot; 'cause if like, &quot;I don't know what to do.&quot; I remember one guy who spent he never left until Wouldn't leave the island. [boat engine humming] [Jerry] Right here the Maryland-Virginia -Okay. -Right here was a store and they would build half the store in That way if there's anything illegal they just shove it into the other state and I've actually heard there'd be about men wanted and they would coy 'em into the store... -Okay. -And then a bunch of men would push that he's wanted in. And I'd heard that had happened I think more or less for piracy and stealing people's Right, because the cops No, couldn't cross state lines. -The sheriffs couldn't cross state lines. -Different counties, different states. And of all the states in the country for a hundred years I didn't know that. I don't think any other two states had quite the same animosity and it was all about oysters. It was all about oysters. 'Cause they moved this line. this line's a zigzag now. -Virginia got that... Because they weren't happy All the oyster rocks. -So the oyster wars happened right here? One battle happened right there. -So they're literally -Oysters, yep. -'Cause that was the currency? Okay, and then in Civil War times Virginia with the Confederacy, Yes, but this is more or less [laughs] This was Confederate territory? Yeah, because I've actually found And I know French coins around 1865 were payment that the French and I found several French coins here. -Do you have those coins? -Really? If I can find 'em, and old things that I've found I'll get through it. But yeah, I've got one from 1865 or three. Right in this place over here, There was four of 'em that I can tell. They always talk about 'cause you can't buy liquor here but sometime in the past your could because you go to either and the broken gin bottles are everywhere. Okay, so you can't buy alcohol No, no alcohol. Never has been. People make moonshine? Uh, I did once. [laughs] A little bit. But no, not... -People bring alcohol, right? -Okay, but you can't buy it, interesting. [Jerry] The people who came here I say they came here a lot They were poor. These people were very, very poor so they could live free life. Worship the way they wanted They were willing to put up -And things have changed, materially people have more money now... A lot more. I make more money in a day But still that tune carries on you're not out here to get rich? No, nobody ever became [laughs] So that's your priority in life, -Enough to live off of. And you'll be way happier than if Yeah. [Jerry] And I think Why it worked was because from either side Not going crazy this way but now people have just... It's like football teams, and I don't care what your side does. You know, it's like I'm gonna just to support my side. -Right, yeah. -So you're not on a side, Jerry? No, never have been. I've voted Republican, I vote for the person I don't want 'em to tell me I want 'em to do Personally I think -Oh yeah. We want our children to thrive, That's it, we want to be left alone We don't want to be overregulated, we just want to live. Just want to live without somebody [Peter chuckles] This here's a place called Little Thurfer. It used to be When I was a kid and I sat right here on a little pile In probably two hours. You can't see it now. But all in here's They're all in these little holes They all wash out. A lot of it's gone, this was way out here but at one time Probably knee high or so You'd sit there and dig in these shells -Who was it here? -Uh, I would think the Anamesic Indians. -Okay, Chesapeake is a Native name too. -Yeah, that means It used to be piles of oyster shells You could tell that and more than likely they came in the fall Because crabs are perishable. I'm sure they ate 'em Yeah, are these the stories or you're just a history buff? -Little bit of both. I just love history, I do. -You do? [twangy guitar playing] -What's that out there in the water? She was a liberty ship -It sank partially? Yeah, they have it as a target. They use it for to blow it up. At night you'll hear boom, boom, My dad, when they first put it there, they put her there pristine. They said even the dishes was laid out on the tables [Jerry] This is the school boat. This is the boat the children take -So your son's on that boat? He should be about the third seat up. -That is so cool. -That is the public school bus out here? -How many kids going to school? -They run that boat for three kids? Because that's by law, right? It's only one kid aboard that, He's probably asleep. They all got their own pillow and blanket and when they get on the boat They sleep for the ride over and sleep for -'Cause they're getting up so early? [Jerry] Just be careful Okay, watch out here, gonna be a little... -[Peter] Oh, yeah. [water splashes] [Peter] Okay, so getting back -Full circle. -Miss Betty? So how many of you guys -All together there might be -That's it? So what were you saying about crabbing? I had the camera off the small crabbers getting pushed out. Well every time they make a regulation it kind of pushes out a few crabbers because there's always a few crabbers Living, you know... Just barely getting by and as soon as they make a regulation, And then he's gone, the crab buyers say, &quot;We gotta bump up the price.&quot; before we lose a few more watermen. The young generation's No. -Who's gonna be doing it? You think this is the end of it, crabbing? I think there's one boy over here, I think he might go to the water but that's because his dad, are still working on the water. So it's possible that he might go work No one wants to. -So how are people gonna eat crabs? But you know how that is, people come in in a hurry. Yeah. If the crabs come back with the right amount and the price -People will do the work? Okay. [Jerry] When I first started there was at least -Okay, but your son -I wouldn't think so. He's really smart so I really want him -You don't want him crabbing? -It's too poor. I don't mind it but, you know... -So with crabbing you have to and save that money That's what hurts you. 'Cause then you ain't got -Yeah. [Peter] He's returned. We heard some things That's what it takes You got like three cases of 'em. I got tons of 'em These are 12,000 years old, 12 to 13. These here are 8,000 to 9,000 years old. This here's around and all of these are all -How do you know how old they are? -The clovis points are made fluted channel. That's where they're halfted. -Mm-hmm. -Like that. You go by the style, see? Now these are parallel flaked points, -So this is the evolution of arrowheads? This is the first, this would be the third and believe it or not, because we had a time period and it caused this whole East Coast for about 2,000 or 3,000 yeas. There was very few of this type -Oh, interesting. This is one of the last shot This is what's called chain shot. This was another one like this and there and they'd load 'em into a cannon of a sailing ship That way they couldn't sail. And this one came from the Battle of 1782 in the straits called I don't think But I was just walking and I think -Yeah. -I reached down and picked it up &quot;That's heavy.&quot; and I though it was a gate weight. They used to use old cannonballs but then I remembered and I'm like, &quot;Oh, wait a minute, The British commander said, and this is probably he loaded and shot that day. [Peter] Paul Baker? [Jerry] He come here one day and he wrote copy number two. He said, &quot;I don't even have one of these.&quot; -Oh, wow. So that's a book about the island here? Yeah, so a friend of mine came to my house and said, [chuckles] And I swear I take this book -It goes with me everywhere. What's inside? See, what it is, It's got Smith... This is Crisfield. -This is where -Smith Island here and different places. -Let's get out of the bugs. -They are savage. [Peter exhales] -Here, take the book. I'll put this in the house. [Peter] Jacob, how are they in here? That's a huge difference, phew. [Jerry] Now out here I'mma show ya. See this? This is my house right there. This was my grandpa's house This one... Mine's 1880s, -So it was where the trailer is? -More houses back then, huh? If you look in here real deep there's like my grandfather You have to use a magnifying glass but my grandfather's my uncles are here playing in a boat. That house is still there. This one's gone, This was a restaurant down here They just tore it down. Right over here [Jerry] John Tyler, We went down to the John Tyler place and I showed him where Smith Island began. -11th great-grandfather? So it's 374 years that I can trace -Do most people -No, people don't care. Very few people care. There's a few, you know? It seems like if anybody You know what I mean? -You're either in it or you're not. -You're borderline obsessed? -Which is so cool. -If I hear a little... Like if I see old photos I love posting old photos of people that's died around here You know, I just love the old stuff. -So what do you think versus someone that didn't live in I don't know, I guess you can really say this is home. [birds singing] [metal clanking] -[Peter] Fresh caught? -We caught 'em yesterday. You said you sell them -Mm-hmm. -Blue crab's the best crab just about. The people in DC or around the country are eating crabs from here? -Yup. Oh yeah, DC definitely are. They go right to DC, every crab we catch. -[chuckling] [Jerry] How do you eat 'em? [Peter] I haven't done crab forever. [cracking] Cut the face off of it, [cracking continues] Let me see that camera, Jacob, [cracking] [Peter] There we go. -This is how my mother I watched her do that for years and years. -You put it in vinegar? -You mind if I go no vinegar? There's no way of doing it. People don't understand I might eat crabs two times a year. Two, maybe three times a year, Oysters once or twice. Like a nephew of mine said, when he grew up they ate and he said he didn't like 'em, He rarely eats a crab -That's interesting. That was an actual meal A woman that's good at that, and it woulda been that quick. One woman, she could pick -All right Jerry, let me give this a go. Jacob going cameraman. See, I could eat this... I say that now. -I could eat this all day long. -So good, mmm. And I think they're better When we go down near the ocean they have a iodine taste to 'em. -Mm-hmm. -But our crabs here don't have that taste. They have... Yeah, there's um... -Mm-hmm. Sweet. -Yeah, that's what I was gonna say, They're sweeter but a really nice balance. -Yeah. That's the way our oysters are here too our oysters, -They're salty. They got a real nice salty flavor to 'em. -Jerry, that is so good. Oh, yeah. So Jerry, I mean the job options here are the post office Pretty much, post office, or work at the cake factory. That's it -So if you're not crabbing or doing -Yep pretty much. Some carpentry So it's hard to keep steady work and by the time you get to the other, -So all the young people pretty much -Everybody my age. The only other person here my age is the guy we talked to in Tylerton He's the only one my age here. There's a couple younger but the group that was my age, So Jerry, you're -Pretty much. I feel endangered every now and then. [all chuckling] [water gently splashing] [bird caws] [Peter] Jerry and the grand finale, right? -The cake! -Not just a cake? The Smith Island cake. -Oh. -And that's what you guys are known for? Famous Maryland State's The story of this cake is, back in the probably late 1800s, the women would make this cake They would go away in October So it was a couple months and the wives because they're moist and the fudge icing That way they could keep it they could have for a few weeks And their cake, believe it or not, but it is almost identical -Oh, yeah? Where does somebody get this? -Yeah, the guy that makes them here I'm pretty sure he sends 'em too they went everywhere. We sent some... One went to Denmark. -Australia. I'll get the link of the business -Okay. Yeah, I'm sure they would. [water gently splashing] All right Jerry, I want to thank you One is crabbers slash fishermen like you allow people like me to eat great seafood. Well, you're welcome. So without you guys we can't enjoy that. That's good. And it's good to see where it comes from. I mean we didn't show it You said the fishing was low right now. It's not quite to the time -They're out in the deep water channel. And then thank you so much It's very interesting. -I'm glad you enjoyed it. And lastly, you have a YouTube channel. I'm gonna leave that link And also you said Yeah, if you want One dollar, that'd be plenty. -One dollar? Okay, so however someone does that, Is that what you wanna do -That would work. If you wanna help out Jerry's roof I'm gonna leave the email and then if someone wants I know you're busy -Sunday's I'm free. Someone could hire you Sure, I'll tell 'em Yeah, you're very knowledgeable It's like a sponge. That's a curse, I don't forget anything. Some people forget it -It's like I don't forget anything. [Jerry laughs] That was awesome. Thank you. You're welcome, man. What do you say on the island? Like ahoy, matey at the end of something? That was cheesy -See ya later. Thanks for coming along, guys. Until the next one. [twangy guitar plays]