I don't want to scare you, but we got on him Hello Equestrians, welcome back to the channel! My name is Alyssa, I am on a Quest to ride to meet the largest horse breed in Australia There are hundreds of different horse breeds saddle up and join me on a ride to Discover I'm heading to Marlie Draught Horse Stud to that is keeping history alive and carrying farm work. Pretty much every horse you can see here is I know it sort of seems funny that there's different types of horses but these are all There might be a couple in here which might a Belgium sort of a style and behind there That's because the Australian Draught Horse, breeds to combine to make what we think was The Australian Draught Horse Stud Book Society Breed characteristics include minimal feathering their nose and eyes to help prevent cancers Mares and gelding stand at 15.2hh and above When we breed our horses they still get classified, breed come and inspect the horse before he the horses who are going into the society We're trying to eliminate any defects coming want them to be really sound working horses. And how many do you have now? Uh I'd say.... I'd say probably 40 to 50. If you don't count.... Do you even remember a time without horses? Not at all, no, it's been a big part of my the same thing. They grow up with the reins in their hands. We actually... In anticipation to you coming... we picked one out for you. That's Will over there, that's Chelsea's horse, on him for the first time yesterday. Oh my gosh, I love it. You're a good rider, right? When they've worked in harness so much, you thing but they're all pretty good. But did you want to try something different like that? Yeah! We will get a team of six, we've got a scarifying sitting on the seat of that and everything. Very good. These are called a long straw collar, similar an English style. So, like a saddle, the collar's got to fit Every horse has his own specific collar, so for an individual horse and as they grow and you have to adapt it every now and again sure These are pretty young, these ones probably are the leaders, they'll lead the team and mind you, but they'll stomp along behind. Do you ever just go to work with one horse Ah, not really, look once you teach him.. or ten, or whatever you need to put in for That's a lot of horses. A lot of horsepower, yeah. So traditional teams around farms would have on the implement you know, bigger implements We use six a lot, you can get a lot done. It just gives them a purpose, and it makes if you're going to put hours and hours into finish, so that way you don't have to sort if you've got a job to do it makes it a lot You can imagine if, right now I'm driving through the back three. I don't actually have a rein on the, they're are going okay, they've sort of got to walk If the front three weren't going okay we'd You've got to take the good with the bad I Horses are an animal you know, you can't expect they're gonna just do everything you want They'll have good days and bad days, just Absolutely, you know I think that's part of yourself when you're around horses. For sure. These horses are so quiet, they know their their understanding of their job and their The other good news is that Aleks has brought a lot of things to run into. You make it look so easy. A little bit of practice. Yeah, it takes a lot longer than a tractor. Just a few decades of practice. Yeah, that's right. Aleks learned about draft horses from his foundation members of the Australian Draught It's a true organic way. What we're doing here, the soil is quite hard instead of spraying a chemical over to kill killing it. So it's a pretty beautiful process, just working any more organic than what we're doing right You ready to have a have a go? I'm really excited but this is like it's gonna you'll pick it up. As you go along, the aim of the game is to has just been scarified. Okay. So you know you might have to give a little side horse. You don't have to pull on them a lot, you They'll let you know what they're happy with. Talk with them a little bit. Wow that moment when they first go, it's like You're gonna have to anticipate the length So you can keep then going a little bit and yep. It's so much rein! That's okay you can go around the bit which It is so hard to stay straight. Yeah, you've got to really anticipate. All right, I'm anticipating beautiful turns. All right, keep them straight for a bit, okay, you'll slow them right down, slow them right Okay that was a little better! Getting better, doesn't take much, a little Oh my gosh, look at my line ahead. That's the beauty of it, you can erase it, Another one of those life lessons you can If you're messing up, just do it again. Yeah, do it again. Australia, every country really, wouldn't We wouldn't be where we are without the Australian You know. they did all the major jobs, which machines It's important that people know, you know is how it's done. We're becoming a fast paced life and sometimes, All right see if you can take them off now. Get up! Sometimes I tell the kids they're got to try Get up, get up... get up? get up! I'll give it a go, get up! They get they get used to the one voice... I mean the good news is no one can steal your Did you want to have that ride Will? We've had him since he's a foal, l he's a Draught Horse. You can see, straight colored probably can that have gone into him. He's got a bit of Percheron and Suffolk lines. Minimum feather. He's certainly done a lot of work and been Then I sort of I lost him to her, she claimed I have a feeling you're going to find that's Yeah, it does. We had a bit of trouble, this hadn't been We have a smaller saddle but I didn't have Breed number 77! It's been fun doing more of these draft breeds I just love the feeling of these big horses, and then like there's just so much horse. Puts it into perspective after watching him Yeah. We're gonna see if we can get the forward Yeah, that might be the hard thing. Oh yeah, see we're already making progress. Gosh, I just love this feeling every horse I'm really impressed with the mind of this The way that they are when they're being worked by two other people! Talk about representing the breed standard Thank you for the ride sir. Hahaha, &quot;Oh, there was a person on me!&quot; Walk, trot and canter, pretty impressive. He's also a very large teddy bear. Do you guys think he's gonna fit in my suitcase? Yep! But before I head out to meet more Australian do. For a versatile horse like Will, you've got We're going to put him on a chaff cutter. So this is how we cut the chaff here. He's going onto what's called a horse works, going to go walk round and round and while and power our chaff cutter. This is what the Australian Draught Horse It's bred into them, they like that purpose. This is all cut from the paddock you worked in For everything, they came up with a way to the equivalent before this if you didn't have I always look at all the old Machinery we point this was brand new for somebody. Like how cool would it have been the day they It's like getting your iPhone. You just don't want to see them in a picture they they're bred to do. You just took the words straight out of my Drive him back for Dad. Within each breed there are unique stories, and hopes for the future. Good job. Thank you all so much for riding along with Horse. Make sure to give the video a thumbs up or Happy riding everyone and I'll see you at