Welcome guys the jurassic wold Wait, what's a called jurassic world evolution? Welcomed. (laughs) Hey guys. How's it going? Yes today We are delving into the world of is basically a game where they combined jurassic world some dinosaurs essentially With theme park or planet coaster that we played a few weeks ago and they've mashed them together into this Game where you can pretty much create your very own jurassic world theme park research dinosaurs and create your own park It sounds amazing what what could possibly go wrong with many dinosaurs that have very very sharp teeth and General members of the public. I don't know but we're about to find out so I haven't played this at all so we're just gonna hit new game and See what happens. Whoa Isla mattandsarah Isla mattandsarah is this way we're going to Discover dinosaurs and stuff hopefully or inside this chopper. There it is a dinosaur enclosure Fantastic, I'm excited and I have 3.1 million dollars Amazing ASA. You'll start by building a Hammond creation lab. Okay, let's do that, right? enclosures Hammond creation lab 400 Thousands that's crazy. How do I rotate this thing? Spin Spin Spin Okay we go. I'm building it Yes, look at that beautiful. So we need to connect this to a path which is like standards for any kind of simulation game So let's build this to here to their sweet $121 for a part is expensive. Ah, I think I'm allergic to dinosaurs dude. I think we're already jumping headfirst into dinosaurs What can I do? We've got a triceratops. I haven't quite researched it yet. Creature Saurus that's gonna be a Diplodocus Well, maybe this one is I'm not too sure. Well these dinos insane. There must be a t-rex is Velociraptor and t-rex Definitely here the big meat-eaters. I like them. We're starting off with Struthiomimus Meniscus that's what we're doing Incubates I'm incubating a dinosaur egg, which has a QR code on it interesting here. Here it goes here comes up first our. Dino incubated ready for release Release the Struthiomimus into the lab. Okay release Hey, let's go look at that grass. He's fast there. He goes reactions. It's running off like some kind of crazy Turkey right now Are you okay? Are you good, you know what this game actually looks amazing. It looks really nice. Oh, it's drinking Definitely looks like a turkey with a longer neck. Right, Let's get out of here. I want some more dinos There it is. Oh, so this is the giant pen that makes sense. Now now what do I do? I wasn't listening So we've got science Entertainment and security after this contract you could other thing more Division requesting an additional contract from the control room. Okay, so Science I guess there's a researching dinosaurs This is just like fun stuff. And this this guy looks like he's ready to pose some security on people I'm going to assign someone as many dinosaurs as possible constructs power and connect an expedition center to your parks path Network an Expedition sense will allow you to send out big teams across the world in search of dinosaur fossils Yes, except my reward is one quarter of a million as well as insane Are we supposed to be listening to these people by the way? I literally haven't listened to a word They've said all right. I need one of these. I don't know where to put it. I'm gonna put it. uhhh here Boom get rid of them trees because fabulous construction There's literally no people here, but they're building. Anyway is all automated I guess is this in the future? I'm not even sure we have a helicopter dude Oh Transmission. Hello. Oh, it's from the five islands. Hello Shush now, can I skip you right she wants me she wants to acquire the Triceratops genome This mission will fail if any of the dinosaurs required by this mission are killed and then we don't want that. I wouldn't Triceratops I'm the million dollars. Let's go use the expedition sensor and fossil center to acquire and extract new fossils. So Expedition Center can send dig teams Select a dig site to start the expedition there with an available dig team and then they go do it. Okay I really want to fly it view expedition map. Okay, so these are the places that we can dig right we want Triceratops there There or there so there's two that have Triceratops but this one has just Triceratops. So we're gonna go there And looks like it's it's happening. There. They go Can I fly this? Sir I want to fly the helicopter, I really want to fly the helicopter, please. Oh, it's raining Oh, it's really raining. I hope the team make it back. Okay, this wasn't This wasn't planned. Okay, let's the other did you just drop people off? I? Think the monorail just drop people off. I could be wrong though. Is anyone gonna come out the tunnel? That rain is insane. Oh my goodness two minutes remaining. Come on dig team. Let's get ourselves a triceratops It's 42 dinosaurs 43 dinosaurs even I can't even read so this is a herbivore so we should be able to put two the Triceratops with This animal and they shouldn't eat each other They shouldn't anyway, I might stick to herbivores for now, but you never know people could be eating in the future deep team returning Okay, let's see what they've got. You got Triceratops in their huh? Imagine if they were just dangling it from the bottom of the helicopter. That would be insane. Go to Fossil. Yes He's found a fossil. What do we got? Oh, they actually got a lot of them a Struthiomimus. We already have that Oh, wait a second extract fossils to build genomes for each dinosaur Viable genomes. Allow yo to create dinosaurs Expeditions can sometimes brick bring back extra finds that can be sold for cash. So we have one two three Triceratops We got an Edm- montoaurus as well, but look at this dude Ceratosaurus looks absolutely Insane look at that mouth. Do we need to extract the DNA to make the genome go higher? I'm gonna try it once as here we go extracts and that takes 40 seconds. Yeah. I think it makes it more stable So if you get to 100% it makes the dinosaur every single time. I think that's right. That's my guess Anyway, it's literally going on 1% though, and it cost me so much money! This one we definitely want to extract this one. We want to extract and these two as well so we can get ourselves a Triceratops and this one as well. There we go. And then we can only do six at a time looks like over 5% Yeah We'll have 5% Okay, that's not so bad So I'm gonna extract this one as well spending a lot of money But I should make a million if I get my um my Triceratops, which would be sick. eey, let's go Triceratops, okay, I'm just gonna wait for these first to extract them all and then we're gonna be birthing a miracle so this guy wants me to Successfully incubate a small herbivore in the hamon creation lab that brings down Sciences reputation up entertainment and down security Except I mean why not? I'm gonna have to do it Anyway, there's no point in researching dinosaur genomes, if you're not gonna birth dinosaurs, right? Okay, all of our Tricerasops (gibberish). All of our Triceratops is a done. So incubate dinosaur 60% Triceratops So as there a chance it could fail their viability 60% Incubate that's a lot of money What if it could fail with a lot of money how much have we spent on this considering making a million dollars? I don't know but it seems expensive. Here we go. We create our second dinosaur But I think miracle so look science went down a lot and entertainment up a lot though release the Dino Look this dude, where is he? They said this is a small one This guy is ginormous. I like him already He's kind of cute Can you like can you imagine these just roaming around the earth at one point these dinosaurs roamed the earth? Which is absolutely insane look at it This dudes cute. I like him, Construct a herbivore feeder and we have another phone call. What's up? What's going on? So he wants a ceratosaurus. Sorry. My dinosaur knowledge is very limited ceratosaurus, that's like the mini t-rex looking thing right million dollars, and I'm not sure what this is Let's go. Okay. Oh, no, I don't want to abandon But how do I pick it back up? Not right now. I'm sorry. I need to construct a herbivore feeder. uhh I don't know where one of those is Ah, here we go provides vegetation and suitable nutrition's for low grazing dinosaurs food is served on a schedule So more than one feeder may be needed to support groups of dinosaurs the feeder satisfy Food needs feeders must be regularly supplied by a ranger ( oh my goodness) at least we already got Herbivore so far I might put it right next to the water. That seems kind of cool. There we go, donzo and they go over to it It's literally just a bush on a metal platform. To be honest. Let's be honest with ourselves here Oh Look! I'm really impressed of how this game looks that's phenomenal I never really played any games with Dinosaurs in before and never really shown like a massive interest in dinosaurs But this is this looks cool actually feels like I'm looking after him, which is amazing I like it, this man right here knows what's going on. He's eating from the bush So prehistoric life construct an operational ranger station. I should probably do that to be honest because I don't have one right now Oh my goodness. That's massive. Absolutely massive it. Can they do they need to go in here? I literally inside and doesn't it need to umm Actually what if I spin it around this way, I don't think it can work that way Okay, let's put outside and see what happens. It might be completely wrong. But hey, that's fine Connect the path and that should be our first ranger station because we need to fill this up They're already eating most of the bush. This is a big dude. He's gonna be hungry eey, I've got complaints about your guest not being able to satisfy their thirst. I didn't even know they were guests here Oh wait, there are look There's literally people here. Okay, so we need to start actually thinking about our guests now What a shame emergency shelter a hotel gift shop fast food. Let's let's pop one of these bad boys in. Shall we? There we go. Fast food one is being constructed now, you can stop moaning. Okay. Geez, there you go ranger station is done ranger team one Oh, can I Drive vehicle Oh This is cool!!! Oh my goodness. I wanna go see these dinosaurs up close. I mean, I've already seen them up close But now I can actually drive in I've got a dart rifle as well on the bottom left. I don't want to do that though Do I have to do this? or can I'm not too sure They're gonna resupply complete Let's go. I don't want a rifle anyone. I guess that's what you do if someone gets attacked, right you just rifle them What do they do if you just leave them though? Do they just do their own thing? Ah add tasks? Highly select the select highlighted objects in order to reassign them. So I need them to refill this And that's pretty much it because nothing else is happening right cool so they can do two jobs, um This is cool actually. I didn't expect this game to be so cool I kind of want to get another dinosaur but I feel like if I put a predator in here that's gonna be bad Isn't it I need to make another enclosure prevent dinosaurs getting too close to guests gates. Oh, yeah, I definitely do Oh my goodness. You can literally feed them a goat. Oh, no, I don't like that I'd rather serve them the meat already dead. This is just an odds to the film, right? Oh my goodness the circle of life Everyone is brutal. These guys are actually doing their job. It feels alive. I like how they just crashed into the gate Good job, guys, we're running low on money. We definitely need money. Oh my goodness incubate it release to Triceratops through the 7% genome I need to go research that other thing. I want that croteau rias thing I want to request Wait, what's security? Let's see. What security does actually. Okay. I think this is better The cash reward is low. But you think we should do this before we introduce these guys pretty sure that's a critical RS right there accept Let's go, chris chris How's it going we go in build connect empower and emergency shelters. Probably a good idea guests emergency shelter Should we put it near the entrance? I feel like we should but also a bit terrifying if the first thing you see when you go to a theme park is an emergency shelter To be fair you're coming to see dinosaurs So you deserve everything that you get there we go done it and we've got a hundred thousand back. So now I can request Oh wait wait, I don't think I can do this use the Rangers team camera to take a photograph includes at least two struthiomimus Do I have Struthiomimus can we accept them all? Oh, I do you have Struthiomimus. I just need to get one more of them. Okay, we can do that I also want to get a new contract from Entertainment which had the or science. Let's go science. Use the exhibition centre to unearth a small or medium herbivore Should we just yeah, let's keep herbivores for now because they're a little bit safer little bit of cash rewards Which is good we can do both of these at the same time. First up ex- expedition, please Edmontosaurus, let's go in Canada sweet and then we can also make another Struthiomimus what is modify genome mean? Wait We can make our own dinosaurs Like combining them. I think that's what this is about that. We robust digestion So it reduces their viability but increases something else. That's kind of cool. I like that I'm not gonna do that now, but jeez that's cool. Let's incubate another one of these bad boys And let's take that picture and they have to have two in the same picture as well. Okay? Oh, no, A hatchling in the Hammond creation lab 2 is too weak Incubating a dinosaur less then a 100% can fail. There we go. That's what we're talking about earlier So if you so if you modify the genes it's way less common for them to actually work But you get pretty cool dinosaurs that makes sense gene modifications will increase the incubation costs, but can produce dinosaurs with significant benefits Okay incubation fail get out of here, how much does it cost each time thirty thousand has not so bad this is try again 74% the Expedition team might actually come back with a good one, but I think they can only find one certain thing But hey, let's see what happens. I just want to take your picture so cute in a weird way They are kind of cute health is 100. Fantastic. This dude's hope is 100 as well. Great Oh this one's gonna work. This one's gonna work release the Dino Haha, here he comes Sprinting out again direct linkage to a our modern birds. Oh really, dude This is like this literally is an early turkey. They definitely changed though, right? We got fatter got more feathers Perfect, right. I need to Drive this vehicle right now, and then I can go and check out my fossils. I need to run over anyone Geez, I forgot about that. Let's go photograph and I got myself a contract Okay, I need to take a photo of these dudes. How do I do that? Oh wait, this is perfect Take a photo take photo snap. Yes haha Got their butts. That's bad. Oh, you can literally get money for it as well It's a terrible photo, but I got 150 grand. That's fine. Not sure they were excellent But still uhh, I need to go to fossils. What do we get Oh an Edmontosaurus a very high-quality extract that DNA let's extract this one too skin impressions Oh Dude, we can sell these for a lot. We've got silver 120,000 so we've got two hundred and twenty thousand just for going on an expedition That's crazy and then two little dinosaur genomes as well. Perfect So the higher the stars the more percentage you get when you extract it, which makes sense I'm making 33,000 profit every minutes Guys, I was born to do this but I'm four stars plus 10% and it looks like That a three star is about six five or six percent So that's good to keep in mind dude a Edmontusaurus. How's it going, buddy? We are gonna make one of you right now. Let's see if this works. I think it's on 60 percent its 230,000 a time good job. We made that money from the silver and stuff my goodness It's a herbivore. So they're not gonna eat each other. Oh, geez. Look. I'm actually almost Ceratosaurus, I can't pronounce these dinosaurs regardless I'm almost Their there, but I want to I want to prepare for the carnivores Because I don't want I don't people to die. I really don't let's hope this works Don't fail $230,000 on this please don't fail. Alright, I think this is gonna work It's going really slow really slow and the bar isn't going up for some reason. Oh It is now it is now. C'mon, please. I like tru-. Wait did I do the wrong one? Guys I think I did the Wrong one Didn't I Yah, I was meant to do this one Whoops Let's incubate this anyway haha I hope both of them works, this costs me a lot of money I'm not gonna get the 70% genome. Am I or am view genome libraries 60% Oh well more dinosaurs equals more fun. Okay, so the Triceratops is going into work, which is great It looks like the Edmontosaurus is gonna work as well. Let's just release this one. Oh I can't believe I made two accident, but it's fine. They are one of my favorites released in progress. Come on You could make a little edmond while I'm here. Actually, I should probably Make some more feeders because I'm gonna have five dinos. Oh dude. This guy's running. He's charging. Here we go Let's put another feeder down here. This is gonna be like the feeding hole over here. There we go and They're expensive aren't they? I think we need this many though. Does it work? Yes, right new dinosaur. Let's go. How big is this dude? He's pretty cool he looks like a platypus His got a blue face Kind of a mustache going on in the middle guys I'm liking this game i'm not gonna lie to you oh, stands up as well Yes roar! Roar to your heart's content. I like this dude. I like him a lot Do I need to make a tall eating thing for this? I'm not too sure but we've got a pretty decent amount of animals right now add tasks resupply feeder Wait, do I have to do it every time that's annoying. I need to make sure the feeders are always done They don't do automatically okay that makes the game a little bit harder income seventy five thousand expenses minus ten Profit per minute sixty five thousand. I love it. Okay. We got some more missions going on here. Oh, it did accept But we need to cancel another mission. I don't wanna cancel it because I already started it this one though This is where it gets into the the predators The meat eaters the carnivores which could which could prove pretty insane? I need to get a Triceratops genome so we need to go on an expedition. Let's go here because there's three different ones that can um that can happen So it could prove pretty good. I need uh I need some fossils Otherwise, this is not gonna make a better Triceratops some things come up. That could be interesting. Okay, and Profitable. Yeah, I can do this success. I think those just happen increase the genome to 50% Which one does that need to be? Oh, it's gonna it's gonna make me do It's gonna make me improve the fossils of one of these dudes. That's fine. That's gonna link up with this, isn't it? I'm pretty sure it is so we've got new contracts going on so as soon as I get a 50% genome in the Ceratosaurus Then I should be I should have complete two things at the same time. I'm just waiting for this expedition team to come back And now hopefully we can get ourselves. That's 70% Triceratops and then research item from research center, hookworm parasites, soo Research Center need to improve and expand multiple aspects You can research new and improved genes to modify dinosaurs and some items have division reputation requirements. Okay, that's cool Nice and simple we see the parasite don't we there it is hookworm parasite So we need these and that's why you fire the darts. Okay, you don't just do it for fun research this please Thank you And then we should be able to complete all of these three when the research team comes back which will be any minute now Yeah research completed. Okay, that was easy Really easy, and the expedition team has just come back which is perfect what you got? what you got? what you got?, you got Struth- I've already put that that was a rubbish one Geez, these dudes. I probably should extract this as well. I want it to be high quality So is this this isn't gonna get us up to 70 You guys need to go out again and do better this time. Please go get out of here. I'm running out of money Clothe shop. I can research a clothe shop. I can research a lot of things Training simulator improve accuracy of ACU. Okay, that's asset containment unit. Okay. So is that one a dinosaur escapes? That sounds insane? Range accuracy is improved reload speed has improved team scheduling Additional tasks, okay more inventory space! so they can bring back more fossils and success rate increase DNA screening increases dinosaur viability by 10 percents at Upgraded Hammond research that ok. Let's do that. Let's research that, that, would be Sweet. How many things can you research at the time? Is it just one? Yeah, I think it's one you can also research new Enclosures including the electrified fences, which is going to be good. Oh Dude, you can get the gyrosphere as well. Oh my gosh. I'm getting too excited about this You're definitely gonna need these for the carnivores. A hundred percent They better come back with a better research this time So I was thoroughly disappointed. You hear me thoroughly disappointed they come give me these fossils, buddy I really really need some good ones. I can't remember what we got the the genome up to Please have triceratops Yes you got one! what's wrong with you. You guys sucked you got this one. Oh wait, I forgive you. I forgive you Okay, I thought you research a fly. It's okay. That's uh Extract the DNA of this one This one might bring out 10% and then we can sell this one just need one more percent then we're good I think we're good for this one. I could have sold the previous fossil, but they bought down a fourth star I almost got mad at them, but I didn't well, I didn't meant to give back This is definitely giving us our 70% so we can sell this one. Get out of here. It's a terrible one I don't spend money on that and now Wait, let me see how the research is going actually We should wait for this success rate thing to go off and then we can research something else and then make our 70% Triceratops and get our achievements our mission complete. Hey, there we go. Sweet Okay, so we have some other things available to mess with some genomes. Don't know if I want to do that Yeah, I think building should be the first thing So let's research a clothe shop so we can make some more money and now a new Triceratops is coming in I can't even say it properly Incubate let's go 73 percent success rate. Let's do this and does it add 10 percent or is that with the added 10% I'm not too sure I think I think the 10 percent is added on top. We are gonna have a lot of the same dinosaurs then though, which is Bad, I think we got a closed shop already that was quick as we serve something else. Let's go for building upgrades increased output of power Yeah, let's do that. Yeah, let's do that need to make sure we're always on top of this Come on, buddy Make it through right this sticker closed shop in I am going to put it there's really not that much space actually at all We could put it down here, but I don't feel like that's a good place Yes, right. We need to release this in a second. I just wanted to the space actually here is perfect That's spin this bad boy rounds. Boom Shop, give me your money for dinosaur related goods Thank you release. look at this 73% Oh, what a beautiful beautiful animal Incubator release the Triceratops at 70% that should trigger any second now Are you good? Are you good? I think it's good You just need to do a little bit of a roar use ranger station shortcut to quickly select Ranger teams. Oh Wait cure the Triceratops what's happened to it? What missing? Oh, here it is quick go Save him what does this mean? Oh That's cool Okay, that's really cool. I don't know what this top bit means. It hasn't told me no substation. Oh Dude, that's not good. Oh my goodness. This is stressful already Okay, I accept are you working? Oh, geez Shoot him shoot him in a good way. Come on, buddy. Did it work? It Better, yes I think we did it Give me that mill Thank You. Cardio strength 2.0 now available. Sweet. I think I need some pylons power Substation converts power for use to nearby buildings. I think I need that And then you need to connect this to here. Does that work? Yes, but I learned something Perfect, right. So I need a photo that Edmontosaurus The iron rating is true as well Sweet and I just need to do the next thing. Oh, my goodness is so much happening right now. Who is this? Edmontosaurus, it was to advance the genome that's a million I have started the mission I don't know if I want to do that much. actually. I'm back up to two million as well, which is good Okay, so ACU, an ACU helicopter to tranquilize dinosaurs And response to park incident, that's cool. So we'll do that guys. I think I I think I'm out Oh jeez so guys I think that's gonna pretty much wrap it up for this little Session on Jurassic world evolution. I actually really really like this game So if you want to see some more of it then please let me know by leaving a big fat like that be greatly Appreciated leave a like if you enjoyed this video as well also subscribe if you're brand new to the channel today to join team TDM and Catch up with more that we can do on down TDM Jurassic Island. I like this game. I hope you love this game, too I hope You had some Fun today thank for hanging out with me and i will see you all next time Goood BYE!!! *Outro*