Have you ever been confused by how many different Such as complex numbers? Or quaternions? How about the confusingness that is the cross What about spinors? Matrices? What if I told you that all of these things and all it required was to understand this This video is a quick introduction powerful mathematical language that can Before we start, there are a few First, mathematically, geometric algebra is the The reason it has a different Clifford algebra focuses on abstract while geometric algebra focuses on Second, there is a lot of material to cover, Don't expect to understand everything right away. My goal here is not to show you but to show you what can be If all you get out of seeing this is a I've done my job. Third, don't worry if you don't To help aid you in learning these concepts, I will often compare parts of geometric Most of the time this is not actually relevant, the Pauli spin matrices, don't fret it when I Finally, I will admit, some things To make this easier to understand, I will not mention a few of the complications that Any time this happens, the error is minor Please see the description for So here's how I'm going to present the First, we will explore basic geometric ideas. We all know what a vector is, but there We will first learn about these things. Second, we will explore various kinds of products After this, we will look at what and will look at it specifically in two Finally, we will look at of geometric algebra to electrodynamics, To start off, let's look at scalars. We usually think of scalars as a real They can be thought of as being We know how to do various things with scalars. We know how to add them. We also know how to multiply two scalars. We know how to do much more with scalars, Let's talk about vectors now. They can be thought of as one-dimensional One important property of a vector Something that's interesting any two vectors that have the same We consider all of these vectors to be equal. We know how to do various things with vectors We also know how to add vectors, by Can we multiply vectors, like we can with scalars? We'll come back to this soon. One final important thing about vectors: we can describe any vector in terms of some basis, For instance, given this basis, you can represent the vector as a combination This should be enough about vectors for now. At this point, a pattern seems to emerge. We have a zero-dimensional We also have a one-dimensional Is there some kind of two-dimensional object, Just like how vectors are an oriented Because this is like a two-dimensional Like vectors, bivectors have a magnitude as well. Whereas with a vector, the magnitude was the length of the vector, Just like vectors, we consider and the same orientation to be the However, that also means that this bivector and We can also multiply a bivector with a scalar, which causes the area of the bivector Like vectors, we can add two bivectors, although it may be a bit hard Well, you just stick them together! Now, you might be thinking, if the isn't this just like a scalar, since This is similar to the case In one dimension, the vector and its length is the only thing that matters. So, bivectors get a lot more interesting Here is a bivector in three dimensions. Here is another. Now, even though these two they are not equal because their just like how two vectors with the same length To add the two bivectors, you can morph them into equivalent bivectors that share a Then, the result of the addition Now, if adding bivectors seems In a few moments, I'll show that bivector addition may be confusing, Now, just like how we can describe we can describe bivectors The basis that is important Each represents an orthogonal so there are three of them. This bivector we have been looking The nice thing about talking about is that it makes adding two bivectors trivial! You just add the components, Why stop with two-dimensional bivectors? Let's make an oriented volume! We call this a trivector. I won't go too into detail about trivectors Their magnitude is their volume, and Of course, we can keep increasing the but we don't need to worry about that here. In general, a k-dimensional vector-like Now that we have discovered let's determine what kinds of This will culminate in one product which is the heart of geometric algebra. To start with, we will discuss the inner This should be familiar to you. The inner product is the length of the This is also equal to the product of and the magnitude of the vectors. We know a few facts about the inner product, such It is interesting to note that the inner It's actually possible to find the inner between any kinds of k-vectors, but this can get The problem with the inner product is that it doesn't give enough information Flipping one vector around the other and in higher dimensions, Is there some other kind of product that Before we move on, really quickly, The cross product only works in three dimensions. Our problem still exists in two dimensions, We need to find something else. Let's start over. Here's two vectors. The inner product went from vectors down a outer product, represented by this wedge symbol, What bivector should it be? Well, let's just make the What is the orientation of the bivector? The orientation is along the direction of If you swapped the two vectors, This means that instead of being the outer product is anticommutative. However, the other properties of the inner product Like the inner product, there is an The difference is that instead of using the cosine One other thing to note about the outer product is What's the parallelogram There isn't really any. Thus, the outer product is zero. Moreover, the outer product of You can also do the outer product This makes a trivector as shown here. Like the inner product, you can do the outer However, if the arguments of an such as two parallel vectors, One nice thing about the outer product is that it now lets us specify the bivector The normal vector basis is shown here, above If you look at this for long enough, is the outer product of two of the unit vectors. Thus, people usually represent the unit bivectors Now, the outer product has the in that it doesn't give enough Maybe we could combine the inner product Why not just add them? Now, there should be something the inner product is a scalar, and How in the world do you add Well, do we have to know? When we use complex numbers, We just always add the two together even though Thus, I'll do the same here I will also say that adding any kinds of k-vectors This sum of the inner and outer products and is written just like normal multiplication. Even though this definition might this geometric product is the To try to make sense of it, First, let's consider the geometric We know the inner product of a vector with outer product of a vector with itself is zero, so This might not seem special, When it is multiplied by u, it This means that we just found the inverse of u, and thus not only can we multiply That's pretty neat. Let's see what happens when you swap the order The inner product is commutative, while so here is the formula for the geometric Something interesting we can do with these After a bit of work, we now have equations for the inner and outer products in Let's talk about the geometric product If we can figure out what the product the geometric product of any two vectors by We already figured out what the geometric so the product of one of the What's the geometric product of two of We know that the inner product of two Thus, the geometric product of two different Furthermore, because the the geometric product of two different Because it is easier to write this way, the bivector basis is usually written as These two rules are essential for We'll be using them often, so Now, armed with the ability to find the geometric an explicit formula for the geometric product I will demonstrate the process on We can find their product by distributing the and then using our knowledge about the geometric First, any of the basis vectors Next, we can swap any two of the basis Now, some parts of this are scalars, Let's combine all of the scalar parts to one We can also factor out the basis Thus, here is the formula for the but only in three dimensions. It may seem complicated, but remember that you the rules for the geometric product of the We can compare this formula to our original explicit equations for the inner and Each equation contains a scalar so we can equate those to get equations for The inner product formula is nothing new, but The outer product formula is new though... or is it? Actually, this looks similar In three dimensions, there is a simple the cross product, which I'll get to later. The reason the outer product is better and the derivation of the formula was much more As we'll see soon, in applications, the outer product is simpler than Stepping back a bit, think about the Would that process only work for vectors? Maybe we can extend the geometric and we can multiply any kinds of k-vectors! For example, let's perform this multiplication. Here, we're multiplying the sum of a How do we do that? The same as before! We distribute and then use our knowledge of Thus, we can find the geometric Now that we have explored the geometric product, we can finally start exploring In linear algebra, we work with vectors. In two dimensions, a vector has two components. In geometric algebra, we work with multivectors. A multivector is the sum of In two dimensions, the most general multivector a vector component, b x hat plus c y hat, All together, a two-dimensional Geometric algebra, mathematically, is the study Our first order of business here is to think about the bivectors. As we discussed earlier, in two They only have one component, As we'll see in a moment, they do have a few We wil also give the unit pseudoscalar, What's so special about i? And what makes it different from normal scalars? The main distinguishing feature is Let's consider multipyling a vector by i. Consider this vector, which What happens if we multiply this by i? We can work out the algebra In the end, multiplying by i ended up Remember that the geometric product so let's see what happens if So, multiplying by i on the left ends up but this time in the opposite direction. Now that we've seen how multiplying vectors by We can calculate this product just So, i squared is negative one. Wait a second... This equation looks familiar! Yes, it turns out that imaginary This is why i is used to Also, complex numbers are equivalent of a scalar and a bivector. In fact, the geometric product the same as the product between complex numbers! In addition, as we saw earlier, same thing as multiplying a complex number by i. This fact holds in general, and acts like complex multiplication, This actually makes for a very Say you want to rotate a All we need to do is find the complex If you know your complex numbers, you Now, you might be freaking out about the fact but remember, bivectors are imaginary a bivector power the same way that we Multiplying by this value We can also try multiplying on the other side. When we multiply on the left by e to the i theta, it ends up rotating the vector in the other Remember that with complex multiplication, multiplying by the conjugate Thus, when multiplying a vector it is the same as multiplying it on Now that we know what complex numbers let's return to the geometric Wait a minute, this is the sum of a scalar and What rotation does this represent? Well, remember that much earlier, we found that the inner product is related to the and that the outer product is related to After doing a little algebra, we find that the is precisely the angle between the vectors! It also scales by their magnitudes as well. This finally gives us a concrete view it represents the action of rotating by the angle This gives us a new way to calculate complex exponentials, sines, or cosines! Say you wanted to rotate a vector w by the We just learned that the product of u and v is this rotation, in addition to However, if we normalize u and Thus, the rotated vector One final thing: consider the equation that we the geometric product: This equation is the except that the imaginary part is negative. Wait a minute, this is Swapping the order of two vectors is the In addition, we found earlier right by a complex number is the same as We can combine these two equations to the product of the three vectors doesn't change Now, a word of warning: all of this was In higher dimensions, things work similarly, Now, if you thought that the In two dimensions, we happened to In three dimensions, there is much, much Let's go there next. Two-dimensional geometric algebra looked which were composed of a scalar part, In three-dimensional geometric algebra, we will which have a scalar, vector, and bivector but now there is a trivector part as well. In two dimensions, the vector part had one component, making for a total of In three dimensions, the vector the bivector part now has three components as Thus, in a three-dimensional multivector, Three-dimensional geometric Just like with bivectors in two dimensions, trivectors in three dimensions are kind of In three dimensions, the trivectors and the bivectors no longer have that name. The unit pseudoscalar here is still called i. Like before, i squared is negative one, so the trivectors However, in this case, they What properties do the pseudoscalars have here? First, in three dimensions, it turns out This fact is very useful, and it makes Let's now look at the product of vectors with i. We can expand out the definition of i, the This actually always works out this way, so that But what bivector is it? Let's look at the vectors and bivectors involved. Looking at this picture, you and the bivector y hat z hat In fact, if you look at the you'll notice that it follows the right hand the orientation of the bivector, your thumb In fact, this is true for any vector! Also, if we multiply both sides of the equation turns it into a vector, but in accordance with In fact, because bivectors can be represented people write a general 3D multivector like this, I don't like it so much conceptually because but I'll use this notation at Actually, because vectors and bivectors some people call bivectors pseudovectors. More on that in a moment. First, I need to bring up We found previously that in three dimensions, the outer product can be calculated in terms The cross product can be found These equations are very similar, and the other produces a bivector. Well, we just learned how to simply and in fact, the outer product is You might be thinking, &quot;Oh cool, so we we can express it in terms of the cross product.&quot; I would say it's the other way around: and in fact, we have been held Every time we see a cross it should produce a bivector, not a vector. For example, consider torque. If you are pushing something with a the torque is traditionally defined to be This causes the torque to point in a ridiculous direction that has nothing Now watch what happens when the cross In this case, the torque is this bivector. We already know that bivectors represent object (as it should be), and it is This is much better than representing torque as a Some of you may have gotten &quot;pseudovector&quot; and &quot;pseudoscalar&quot; when they Well, they're actually the same thing! Every pseudovector in traditional terminology, is actually a bivector, and every such as magnetic flux, is actually a trivector. The only reason we have been confusing them is vector and pseudovector bases and the scalar Let's look at the product of the basis vectors. We could leave these products and we know that bivectors can be Let's figure it out. We can multiply by a unit vector twice After swapping around a couple of we see that each equation So these are the products of the basis vectors. Wait a second... Along with the fact that each This is exactly the equations that Using the fact that the Pauli spin matrices geometric algebra brings about a the mathematics of quantum mechanics, similar to classical mechanics when Let's look at the basis bivectors next. First off, like in two dimensions, all What's the product of all of them? Well, the y's cancel and the rest is just a unit Wait a minute... This is the equation that describes In three dimensions, a scalar when in two dimensions it was a complex number. The last thing we'll do here is I never felt good about three learned the way to do it in geometric algebra. It is similar to the two dimensional case, Let's start simple. We want to rotate this vector For reference, the components of the and the vector we are trying to rotate Notice that only the x and y components Now, rotating around the z axis is We already handled rotating in the xy plane Thus, at first glance, it would seem which was i in that case, will rotate the vector. Let's see what happens. Well...it almost worked. The x and the y coordinates got rotated correctly, but the z coordinate got Let's try something else. Remember how in two dimensions, multiplying on the left by the complex Maybe this equation is mostly except that the trivector won't pop up. Remember that the complex conjugate so the conjugate of x hat y hat is y hat x hat. Let's try using this equation instead to rotate. Darn it, the same thing happened. Well, almost the same thing. The x and the y coordinates but the z coordinate got However, notice that the orientation of the trivector is the opposite Wait a minute... If the z component was messed up maybe if we apply both at I won't go through all the The z component is correct! Success! Oh wait a minute... The x and y got messed up! Oh, of course they did. We rotated twice. However, this is a great way Let's look at this a bit closer and we We know that x hat y hat is really so we can write it as a complex exponential. If you think this equation looks funny, remember so we can calculate this like In the end, we did this quarter turn twice, Well, if we want the final let's just cut all the angles in half! Let's try using an eigth of a turn for rotating instead of a quarter of a Remember that on the left you There's a lot of tedious calculations in That may have all seemed really To rotate a vector v by an angle theta in in that plane, You use the complex The angle is cut in half When used to represent a rotation in Something nice about this equation Notice one interesting thing about rotors: As we increase the angle of the rotation, In fact, once we have completed a whole rotation, This is because the rotor is If we wanted to bring the we would have to do another Wait a minute... This looks like a spinor from quantum mechanics! The way that spinors rotate is always said but in fact, it's just based on the rotations involves applying the rotation twice. I could keep going about When you see people talking you may see descriptions such as &quot;a unified &quot;the most powerful and general language available I was a bit skeptical when Sure, it's a nice mathematical tool that I'll However... my viewpoint changed entirely when I saw what For future reference, here There are other ways to but this is the most well-known version. Some of the other ones are simpler than this, but oftentimes they just hide Okay, the geometric algebra version I am about to in notation as well, but I would argue that First, let's consider the differential There are two of them: The partial and the gradient, which is the sum of the We know from relativity that so it would be useful to Well, in geometric algebra, we can add Before you get confused by my notice that the spacial gradient has a vector One issue with this equation is We can fix this by adding a factor of the Doing this may seem familiar if This combination also makes sense of four derivatives, so in the end it's Next, let's consider the sources that There are two of them: The It would be useful to combine these as well. Just like before, we can just add them. Actually, subtract them. Don't worry about the minus sign. Just like before, I used the same letter for Again, the current has a vector arrow, This equation also has some units issues, which can again be fixed by adding Again, this combination is seen in It also gives an interesting as a current that is moving Finally, we want to combine the electric and Unlike before, we can NOT just add them. The issue here is that both the are vectors, and so their components mix. However, remember that the magnetic field Thus, the magnetic field should Thus, our electromagnetic field plus the unit trivector, i, Remember that i turns a vector into a bivector. We have a unit problem again, but we can fix that Some people actually call c B the magnetic field, This combination of the electric and The electric field is a vector, the magnetic field is a bivector, and Anyway, we now have everything we need to describe Are you ready? That's it. This is Maxwell's equation. Not equations, plural, but equation, singular. This one simple equation describes And remember, we did not set out to get here. We initially just wanted to multiply vectors, and Okay, I will admit, I cheated a bit. This equation is using natural units. In SI units, the equation changes But still, this equation is incredibly simple. To show that this is equivalent to first, we can expand out all of Next, we can distribute this product on the left. These two terms involving the gradient can be expanded in terms of our original This seems like a monster at this point, but by moving a few things If you look at this equation, you there is a scalar part, a and a trivector part, and on the right-hand There is also a bivector and trivector part on the For the whole expression to be equal, the scalar parts must be equal, the Thus, from this equation, we The first equation is Gauss' law! In the second equation, let's First, divide everything by c. c^2 is related to the electromagnetic We can use the equation found earlier relating rearrange, and cancel the negatives. We now have Ampere's law. For the third equation, all we have to do is write cancel the i, then rearrange. We now have Faraday's law. Finally, for the last equation, we can just Thus, the original equation is in fact Now, you may be thinking, &quot;okay, but you can't solve it in that form, right? You would have to convert it On the contrary, you can solve it The geometric product acts in enough ways that you can do calculus with it. Differential equations of this form can be solved through the use of a Green's Here is a concrete, simple example. Imagine that we are solving the equation and consider some region R with no sources inside. Then, when you work out the math of finding the get is this, which just so happens to be the Okay, fine, I picked this simple case just to but still, this method is very general and It makes it much easier to get analytic The more I study geometric algebra, the more I Geometric algebra should be the Not using it is like trying to use I hope you have seen the reasons First, geometric algebra is powerful. It can be used to represent basically Second, geometric algebra is simple, Third, because of the first two, geometric algebra makes connections between By being both simple and powerful, it is such as quaternions and spinors, are It also reveals many similarities Fourth, geometric algebra makes We wouldn't have to learn about spinors, Pauli spin matrices, and This would make teaching significantly easier. Finally, geometric algebra simplifies I don't think you have to look any further than If physicists started using I am sure that we would see huge