- You know, I always tell people there's two things you don't mess with. You don't mess with someone's kids, and you don't mess with someone's money. And we were literally doing both - Oh, that intersection. (upbeat music) - Lane Merrifield, what's up? - Dude, I'm so glad that we could do this. We're actually sitting in your - We are. incredible part of the tech community built here in Kelowna. All started with Club Penguin, which I'm assuming you've or that it's been so long you've probably told but I gotta ask, 'cause I to a billion kind of outcome. - Yeah, well it was 650 and things like that. We ended up getting a good So it ended up underneath there. - And I mean, for people I mean, you guys didn't have to sell, 'cause my understanding is you guys are incredibly profitable. - Yeah, we were fortunate. I mean, we bootstrapped it, and we'd kept things so razor thin in terms of costs that after three months. I mean, not huge at the time, obviously, but because we were so tight, and then we ended up within And we went from four in 18 months. And then we got to this place where we didn't have the and we needed to... We wanted to diversify, I didn't really wanna have looking at real estate and things like that. - Yeah, and it was critical for me, because of our mission and giving them a safe place online. It was critical that we We had kids playing globally, but we didn't have the infrastructure to be able to support them all the same, and I didn't like that disparity. I didn't wanna create that. And so we had to expand globally. We had to put offices in both from a time zone perspective and a language perspective. And so, we were looking for a company that had that infrastructure. - Disney, I mean, when you think of like who would be the absolutely best partner to help deliver on that, in regards to like and just horsepower were they - No, I mean, it was a huge process. There's a whole bidding process. Disney wasn't even the highest bidder. So, if it was purely about we could have done better. Again, we're happy, no but when I say it wasn't it really wasn't about the money. For us, it really was more than anything, and I wanted to see the at least from an LTV perspective, and that was my goal pre Disney. That was my goal post Disney, and it's one of the reasons to make it out. - Dude, I remember, I would have been 20, 19, 20 with a guy named Andrew, and they were playing on Club Penguin. And I said, &quot;What is it?&quot; And it was built in Flash, I believe. Like I'm a bit of a nerd, so action script, right? - And he was just like, &quot;They're addicted to this thing. And when I said, &quot;Oh, you pay for it.&quot; He goes, &quot;Oh yeah, you have And this is early days. Like today it's kind of normal. We have &quot;Roblox.&quot; We have all these examples, but go back, 'cause I know then there was Dave, which he's the older guy and then Lance, who I've spent time with. how did that founding team... 'Cause it definitely feels in a bottle. Like there was a moment in Go to those early days and - Yeah, so I mean, obviously Lance and Dave and myself I mean, truly, we'll still hang out and grab a coffee once in a while, but even when we were in the thick of it, even when it was all going crazy, we'd kind of meet up at a dinner, 'cause we ha had to be there but we didn't socialise together. It was not the like we're gonna go start a company together, 'cause we just like This was really truly of very different strengths, but a very unified philosophy and really a unified value system. And Dave brought a lot of that together within the previous The act of giving back- - Yeah, it was a marketing agency. So we did website design and My background was in design, so that's kind of where I came into this. And Dave was like, &quot;Hey, &quot;I'm going to Europe &quot;to meet a bunch of our European clients.&quot; We were working with John kind of out of Europe. So I did, and I was I'd only been there a Was sitting down with Lance. He started showing me some he was working on. He kind of had the tech background and had the passion And for me, from a leadership perspective and a community perspective, we both got creatively talking about this. And it was like, well, what if you took these and we started bringing them together? And he kind of showed some And then when Dave came back from Europe, we literally were ready with to say, &quot;Hey-&quot; - Yeah. There was never thought of doing it. - Well, we were hoping Dave's been building this Like, we're about to say, &quot;Hey, we wanna stop all &quot;with this company, with &quot;and we gotta go do this thing.&quot; So, we pitched him. It took about two hours. And at the end of the pitch, &quot;I have no idea what you &quot;None of this makes any sense to me, &quot;but I've never seen either &quot;And so let's figure And he just said, &quot;Lane, &quot;that you can generate &quot;you can pour into Club Penguin. &quot;All your time and effort around that, &quot;you can pour into it obviously. &quot;Lance, you can go full-time &quot;And whatever you guys can scrape together &quot;from your own funds, we'll &quot;a couple of artists, and So that's what we did. - So he donated his company as the seed. I didn't know that. I thought it was like a separate thing. - No, he basically said... And so, I was almost like I was working my ass off every day, trying to drum up more business and negotiate contracts and things to try and eke out as much margin as knowing that that margin And then we went down to the bank, took out a line of credit on my house. - Dude, you went all in. - [Dan] Young family, line of credit. Your wife, did you tell her? - Oh yeah, of course, I had to sit down, and we basically said, hey, we might move back into an apartment if this all goes to shit. - Wow, and what was that How quick did you get to revenue? And how did it scale up? - It was about a nine to kind of we had about three or four people that were working on it. We were paying them part-time. It was like hourly. And they were all working harder than what we could afford to pay them. They were passionate Lance had been at it full time obviously. We were literally reaching the point where we were running out of funds, because our money, Lance from our houses, that money The rest of the company but not enough to pay all these folks. So we said we've gotta We always knew it was even from the beginning, because one of our core was around not advertising to young kids, especially when they don't between what's an ad and what's not. So we knew we weren't gonna go ad-based, and we knew we had to - [Dan] Which is quite unique back then. - Super unique. - This is pre Netflix. I mean, we were mocked In fact, I still have a couple of articles that literally they and they said, &quot;It's neat. &quot;They really seem to &quot;Eventually they're &quot;that you can't make money &quot;on the internet without advertising. &quot;So this whole subscription And the only model we had, ironically, was there was a couple of online games, like &quot;World of Warcraft&quot; and things that were charging a subscription, and then use the analogy of like HBO. We're like, &quot;Well, &quot;but people are willing to pay &quot;Maybe we'll do the same with 'cause really the whole goal was to say let's try and give kids that was ad-free, 'cause that's what we Looking back now, those who were mocking us, they're like, &quot;How did you know the trend And it's like, we didn't know anything. We just knew we had limited solutions, and we wanted to do the - And how do you get the 'Cause nine months, not I think people wait too long to monetize. I mean, the fact that you how do you get the - Thankfully Lance had donated. See again, this is where doing the right thing, karma, Lance had donated a few of his mini games that he had made over the years young developer out in the UK who was trying to start a like a website dedicated to this stuff. And he put out the call to on the internet who had &quot;Hey, I can't pay you now, &quot;but I'll pay you down the road &quot;once I start generating revenue. &quot;Would you donate a game?&quot; Most people just ignored him, obviously, &quot;Hey, I'm not gonna give Lance was like, &quot;Listen, &quot;but pay me an extra 100 bucks for it &quot;down the road or something, And so that's what he did. And this was like four or Fast forward to we launched this thing, we're seeing the uptick. We did a closed beta of that had turned into 20,000 kids inside of about two to three weeks. - And parents did not spend - No, no, and certainly - No, even on the internet, like where did you get (Lane laughs) that people take for granted. We have Stripe today. I remember getting a merchant and it's like the bank said no at first. - Oh, yeah, I probably or eight different banks and companies before we could get it sorted. I mean, those are the types of things that it's easy to take for granted. Even the authentication like we were doing manually during that beta. So I was literally getting for an account, and we were manually set up an account and - 20,000 accounts? inside of like the first, I And so, I mean, we were just scrambling. I mean, it was all nighters nonstop. We lived on like pizza and Coca-Cola and just knocked ourselves out trying to make this thing happen, 'cause we knew we had something special. We knew that over time, eventually the big guys The Nickelodeon, the Disney, in the market. We thought, okay, we've It's also why we were So like we had an agreement even when we were making money, like we started paying - I remember you telling me this where you guys agreed No one's doing anything fancy. - No one's buying a house. There's no upgrades to your lifestyle. I ended up needing a car anyway. And so I got like the entry-level Lexus, the cheapest one I could find, 'cause it was like a And that was about as We turned down Business Week. We turned down Tech Crunch. We turned down every reporter out there because we didn't wanna go run around and say how successful we were. We were private, so no one knew. They were looking at Comscore. - [Dan] 'Cause you were scared and try and compete. we had something special. - [Dan] So when you start from reporters that are you're a little nervous like, hey- - We were popping up in Comscore, and Comscore wasn't And there would be mistakes, so we would get an email saying, &quot;Hey, you guys have rocketed &quot;Is this true and how and So I do need to pause real quick, 'cause I forgot to finish the story. - [Dan] Yeah I wanna how did - Yeah, so I'll finish and then we'll get back to the reporters. So in the distribution, fast we knew we had something special. We had this beta. We were ready to open up to the public. And we reached out to who he'd given these who now is running Miniclip, which had about 50 million of our prime audience, So we reached out to him and say, &quot;Hey, listen, we wanna put together...&quot; And he'd only ever hosted these like tiny, little one-off games before. And so, we went to him and said, &quot;Hey, we've got something kind We worked out a rev share agreement that was pretty generous but he also had a massive distribution, and we thought, listen, we've got the margin, 'cause We kept our costs so low that And then he started to turn on the tap, and he would only like open like 10%, 12%. And it was funny, 'cause he came to us. And talk about this paranoia of time like this moment in time He said, &quot;It usually takes &quot;to four months to go full audience,&quot; 'cause we crashed it so much, and I said, &quot;We're And he's like, &quot;It's not And it was like, literally I we were like one week and we had the full audience on there, and it was going nuts and from that point on. taken this conversation had Lance not- - No, he definitely the way he did, or it would have been a more I mean, in the end when for four or five million dollars a month, he was pretty happy about it. (chuckles) But he deserved it. I mean, he took a risk on us, the risk paid off, and those were checks that I was happy to cut. from not melting, 'cause You're in a server room. - I mean, we had a team that And frankly, we were 'cause we were pulling that were used to running websites. And we were trying to like hack them into these socket servers. And a typical socket server will deliver packets of information. It'll be like a 15 second connection, a 20 second connection while the website's downloading Our socket server connections because we had to just like And so then the penguin to wherever they clicked, and then they click something We brought in consultants 'cause we couldn't keep the servers up. Even after we had all of that was great, but we're also growing And so we brought in these they sat down, they dug they were gonna help us scale. And after like two or three they literally said, &quot;We're gonna give you your money back. &quot;Like, thanks, &quot;but we can't help you.&quot; The people that sold you the hardware- &quot;You guys are using stuff in &quot;We don't know, frankly, &quot;as well as they are. &quot;Let us know what you find out.&quot; And so we were like, &quot;All right, &quot;we'll just keep figuring And, thankfully, we really had worked hard to build a community and to It's one of the reasons why was trending again on Twitter. Like it's still has that because we really cared about them, and they really cared about us. And as a result, they were very patient. When servers would crash, we wouldn't get flooded with angry emails. We get flooded with like &quot;Good luck, guys. &quot;We know you're working hard.&quot; Nowadays when I consult and about building an online community and building their brand it's one of things I is to not create an with your community, not not try to hide things Be as transparent, as vulnerable, as open as you possibly can, and you will endear yourself far more than if you try to sculpt the And I mean, politicians I mean, everyone is, but I mean, we're literally that would like try to trick people into not cancelling their accounts, and those recordings we're going online. And we're listening to this stuff going, &quot;Oh God, someone's gotta It's one of the reasons doing customer support. We had 300 people around the world, real people doing customer care. I mean, and now I watch with their algorithms and the way the kids have in some ways by having that shouldn't be, because, listen, I'm an as much of a nerd as anyone, and I love technical solutions, but there's some of this stuff that just requires human power back. - Go back to the media people. How do you hold them at bay? When they would contact us and say, &quot;Listen, your Comscore &quot;You guys are clearly doing something. &quot;What's going on?&quot; We'd be like, &quot;Yeah, we're &quot;We're trying to figure &quot;but it's just not accurate.&quot; What I'd say is it's not accurate. It's not accurate. And they would assume, It wasn't accurate. We were actually outperforming Comscore, but we didn't wanna tell anyone. We kept it secret for over a year before finally people like, &quot;Hey.&quot; - Was there a cultural that you wanted to kind of in regards to like not or was it just more of like, &quot;Hey, we don't want anybody - It was a little bit of all of the above. We had started this thing for our kids. We were hoping that it Like literally we had goal sheets that were like could be inside of like two years. And so when it was we were hiring. I mean, part of why we as the experience was growing, we felt an incredible responsibility to take care of them properly. - [Dan] I mean, it's kids, A lot of people- - I always tell people like there's two things You don't mess with someone's kids, and you don't mess with someone's money. And we were literally doing both - Oh, that intersection. You typically have like your champion, your influencer, and your decision maker. And our whole world was that our kids were the users. The kids didn't have credit cards. The parents had the credit cards. So the parents were ultimately So the kids could influence, they could promote it, but the parents had to And so, we had to keep both happy. And as a result, it's one even when I talk about things we had an incredible sums of data. It was all anonymized by our choice, again, because we didn't need it. We didn't need the data And so, our only objective was as much as we could and to justify every single month why that credit card was being charged and why it was a good spend. And we got so focused on that. We used to have a saying In fact, even had it on &quot;If it doesn't matter &quot;it doesn't matter.&quot; And anytime we'd be like, &quot;Okay, well maybe we should do this, &quot;maybe we should do this, and maybe...&quot; literally like anyone from the all the way through the ranks could say, &quot;Hey, how does this And so, when I'd be invited to go keynote the Gamer in Austin, Texas, I'd ask myself, &quot;How does this matter No eight year olds are No eight year olds are gonna Parents aren't gonna read that media. I'd rather go talk to a where I can talk to them about how we're taking care of the kids. That is that worthwhile effort, because then we can convince their parents it's worthwhile. But for me to go toot my own horn, for me to go just do it, really what it would have and an ego wasn't going - Dude, having that level of awareness at such a young age early in is pretty different. As you know, meeting so many entrepreneurs that literally easily distracted, kind of high on their own supply sometimes of their early success is really cool. And then after that, you A lot of people decide to maybe go find a private and you decide to double build this incredible the Innovation Centre, essentially your investment Why? - Yeah, well, I used to have a saying that if you weren't my you weren't gonna see me. And I would say that, because even after the deal, whether it was a foundation - [Dan] 'Cause that happens - Yeah, and so I would send the check, but I would never be there. I wouldn't deliver it. I wouldn't go to the event. And God knows I would never and do the thumbs up and do the thing. I just didn't have time. And I was so focused on to grow this business. - At Disney. And so, when I finally decided to leave, it was increasingly difficult My family was here. I was travelling. I realised two things. Number one, it's hard of a massive corporation from a distance, 'cause you're always kind So even when you're trying and move an idea forward, when I wasn't there, I was losing ground. And so then I always wanted to be there. there being like Burbank or to help move the ball down the field. But then every time I was there, I wasn't with my kids, And in fact, I literally was in Australia. I used to fly to Australia for 18 hours. So I'd spend more time than I spent on the ground, 'cause I didn't wanna And to me, every bedtime And I'm sitting in Australia, and this reporters asking about the site and about the experience. And we just launched our office there. And he's like, &quot;Oh man, your kids must &quot;in the world, dah, dah, dah, dah, dah.&quot; And I gave him kind of a pad answer like, &quot;Oh, to them I'm just dad. &quot;I'm just goofy. &quot;I'm just a nerd.&quot; But what really hit me in that moment was like I haven't actually 'cause I was like bopping and I actually feel like kind And I realise that this website that I'm running around the for my kids is actually turning me into a really shitty father. I didn't wanna do that. I had been saying yes to on behalf of them and been for way too long. So that's when I knew, Now, this was about a So it took me 18 months. I built a succession plan. I found my successor. We did a proper transition. I wanted to make sure that And then I went back with my actual babies and This community, I truly wouldn't have been able to at least not the same way. The amount of empathy, the amount of passion. I mean, you've been here - Dude, I mean, even the fact that maybe back then it was 120,000 people or a 100,00 people to build just doesn't make sense. - No, no, but if I were to it would have been so much and us to lose sight of When we hired people, the way we could hire so quickly and keep the values so was because we hired people And so we were hiring Like literally our online events planner. I mean, first of all, we're - Nobody's trained for this. It's not like we can go grab someone. Even if we were in the Bay Area, we couldn't grab someone from who was holding virtual That just wasn't happening. Literally Facebook was being worked on by Mark Zuckerberg at that we had launched Club Penguin. So it's not even like social at that point. Myspace was kind of starting to come up around the same time, but that was it. And so we, what did we do? We just found whatever So we needed someone to create great customer service experience. I hired the local manager I would drive 10 minutes to go there, because every time I went, the experience was... I mean, Starbucks runs a great shop, and they normally are known but this guy just ran such and everyone was all trained, I said, &quot;That's what I He now runs all of customer care for King. It does like Candy Crush, Supercell, who does all the mobile games. He was running a bunch of He ended up having three or 400 people reporting underneath them. - And he continued through the ranks. - Plucked him from Starbucks. No college degree. I think, actually, no, he might've had like a but so that was Starbucks. So that was customer care. For our events and creative experiences, we hired people from summer camps, local summer camps. What were they doing? They were running events for kids. They were creating fun events for kids. They were just doing it in the real world. And we said, &quot;Come do the &quot;Dream up these fun ideas, &quot;but we're gonna do it virtually, &quot;and we're gonna have some And all these people ended and growing with it. - It's crazy. So you don't think any other to build Club Penguin the way that you guys could build it here? - I don't think it if it was built anywhere else. And I've travelled the world. I'm a dual citizen. I've lived in a lot of places. I'm not throwing shade at any place. Every place has their own DNA and their own strengths and weaknesses. I think one of the things and unique about the was this overwhelming to care about people, to care about these kids, and the empathy to build on behalf of someone else. Again, I've got a lot of They're awesome. It's a great place to build companies, but it does turn into a where it's like, hey, we're with 20 something solutions, And all of a sudden, they're and it's amazing. If I were even today to go say, &quot;I wanna build a kid's website I wouldn't be going to Bay Area. I love it, but I wouldn't be there. I wouldn't be down in LA. You kind of have to find that right fit. - [Dan] Find that community and culture. - Yeah, exactly. - I mean, I know a lot of It's almost like the PayPal the Club Penguin mafia. Like there's just literally that were inspired, minimum inspired, but definitely came from When you came back to decide how did you decide what to say yes to? - Well, so I knew a couple of things. Number one, I knew the and the trust that Dave had put in us was unique, was not normal. And so I wanted to do the same for others that David done for us. So I knew I wanted to invest some of the companies, not just in tech, but, frankly, anywhere who is creative and passionate and wanted to build something great. I was gonna provide some And so Wheelhouse was born to do that. I also wanted to volunteer some time, and I had a couple of friends who were on the board our local accelerator. They were trying to help startups, and they were working but crappy little space - Like startups do, yeah. So I said, &quot;Listen, I'll kind of pay my dues a little bit. I'm talking about how I wanna This is an area that I can That's the other thing is again, for my own ego. If I couldn't add value, And this was an area I thought So I dug into it. One of the first things that which is government-funded. 80% of the budget was going to that space and to help subsidise space for some of these startups to be in. And 20% was going towards helping entrepreneurs learn And I had experienced the Lance had experienced And we talked all the time about some people thought it was Well, yeah, entrepreneurship It just is. And I didn't I just thought there wasn't necessarily a great space for it. So we noticed this problem. I then had, thankfully, amazing people, Jeff keen, who you know, amazing people around to be able to make some And we ended up getting of the university, the president all of our local politicians, everyone around a table one night. And we said, &quot;Listen, we want to make We've studied. We studied Boulder. We studied Waterloo. We studied the Bay Area, all these other tech hubs. We looked at ones that obviously So Boulder was kind of in terms of city size And we said, &quot;You know what? &quot;What did they do 20 years ago &quot;when computers were first coming out?&quot; Well, number one, they were intentional. They, they were purposeful that led to some bigger results. So what could those actions look like? A lot of ideas came out of that. And I can point to that first meeting, but what was most amazing is with that same group. And it truly every key leader from this community showed to talk about how do we make this happen. And I think that's the key. And people have said, &quot;Hey, we wanna do the same thing.&quot; Listen, it was a lot of A lot of times we thought but, most of all, what was the fact that we were working on it together, and I mean, we had all three which has never happened before. We handed all of our documentation to say go do this in other cities. Here's everything we learned. - Kind of open source it. 'cause I'd love to see a building - [Dan] What is the Square footage? Give people a sense of the - Yeah, so it's about So it's seven, six stories and a big open door area. It's just beautiful. - Yeah, so the goal behind that, again, it was something that I In fact, if you ever get a chance to or just look up Pixar's campus. - I've been. during his time away from Apple. They've got this incredible atrium in the Emeryville campus. And one of the secrets behind and this was one of so he was kind of instrumental He said, &quot;I want two &quot;I want food. &quot;All of the food in the entire campus &quot;is only gonna be located here. &quot;And the only bathrooms at the time &quot;in the entire campus &quot;here in this atrium, &quot;because it's gonna force people &quot;to leave their computer, and &quot;And what are the places they do that? &quot;Well, bathroom's gonna draw people out, &quot;and food's gonna draw people out.&quot; And so it was a very intentional kind of bring that right build collisions. So we have an atrium running very intentionally. It's a huge waste of real estate. - 100% waste of real estate. and over again, huge real estate it was, but we wouldn't have been authentic to our vision of building if we didn't have that open space, 'cause otherwise, what do you do? You jump into an elevator, and the rest of the at that point, all the We built a space where we wanted people to see each other from opposite floors, and be able to wave at each other. - [Dan] I watch, I think fifth floor is a guy doing all the time. Like, I don't know him, but I feel like I know him, 'cause I see him do his work all. - Totally, it's one of the We actually helped the TII build-outs and gave 'cause we wanted it to feel open. We wanted you to be able to Listen, the moment we and we're experiencing this obviously, and have with COVID and, it's so easy to disappear and lose sight of that And so, we wanted to that could happen naturally and freely. And I also believe the better companies are gonna be coming out as a result of it. I mean, you know the age old story that the invention of the that Apple came out with, which arguably was the predecessor the iPad, and one of the reasons why in the world today. That came about from two guys coming from different departments, one who had just seen this presentation about this new little hard or Fujitsu, or someone meeting up with someone to build MP3 player, build a device that could hold 1,000 songs. It was like the Steve Jobs requirement or something like that. And they were like almost kind like, &quot;Ah, I've got this impossible task. &quot;Where the hell am I ever gonna find...&quot; And this guy's like, &quot;Well, I just came into &quot;'cause they made this &quot;in a laptop, and we don't &quot;So what a waste of a hard And it's like, wait a minute. And, buh, buh, buh, buh, buh, one thing leads to another, And that came out of a collision that was not by design, that was not management-led, that was not organised and formulated. It came out of a collision of two folks griping and ending up birthing - So out of doing all this stuff, 'cause you definitely so busy, lots of demands. Why or how did you come to - (laugh) Yeah, well, boy. So they had actually reached out while I was still at Disney. - And remember I said, &quot;If you weren't Mickey &quot;you weren't gonna hear from me?&quot; - [Dan] 100%. People like to overly glamorise it, like, &quot;Oh, they reached out, they No, they didn't. They asked if I'd be willing to audition. It happens every time There's a whole audition process. The amount of times, by the way, at dinner parties that people are like, &quot;Oh, I was asked to be a dragon-&quot; - [Dan] I have had three - Yeah, yeah. (both laugh) - Well, you might've but you're asked along with So they had asked me to eight years ago now, and I said, no, I said, I couldn't, 'cause, again, I was I was already feeling and the idea of spending three weeks, a year in Toronto I didn't have the time for it. So I said, no. And honestly, I'd 'cause I thought, &quot;Man, that'd be fun.&quot; Anyone who knows me, I was never diagnosed, and am scattered. (both laugh) And love to take on a Love new challenges. So I was always a little Fast forward, this building We just moved in. I was still managing some helping out a startup but wasn't running at the time. They called again. And actually my assistant thinking it was a prank call, 'cause we get prank call all the time. - Dude, yeah, or it's like and you're like, you're not Yeah, like sometimes emails 'cause it's a production - Part of my EA's role is vetting like stuff to pass onto me. And so she almost threw it away. It was actually one of the at the time. He was like, &quot;Wait a minute. &quot;Lane mentioned that this happened once. &quot;Like I heard him at some &quot;It might actually be legit.&quot; So then she dives into. It turns out it was legit. I went to an audition, oh, I was so honoured and so excited, and maybe I might be auditioning just with like four, five people. And I got there and I was only auditioned with four or five people. So I'm like, all right, 20, What I found out later was that that was only one of like four auditions they held in Vancouver, and or six of those sessions in Toronto. So when I learned that, &quot;Hey, this was fun.&quot; I popped out to Vancouver for the day, got to pretend like I was a a couple of my new like Ryan Holmes and a few folks out And so it was fun. It was a fun experience. I get a call back about a week later, &quot;Hey, can you come up to I did. I didn't have to do the full... We did a full like two to with a bunch of different pitchers and like full cameras. It was a real deal. I went out there. I didn't have to do the full thing. Met with some of the more senior people. Again, I was just then shortlisted. And I think that it was at that point, and got a &quot;Hey, if you're interested...&quot; - What was the motivation? Like, what did you see I mean, I know it's probably - No, no, it's not deal flow. I am investing my own money, and they don't pay us a tonne of money. And, again, I'm not complaining. It's a couple of weeks worth of work, but it's not extravagant. For me, it's an opportunity to help raise awareness I was so fortunate to have gone through like almost a fast-forward experience. I felt like when I was I would have been 32, 33 maybe 34, I had gone hiring the first four employees, hiring then three to 400 employees there, then hiring globally, and I ultimately ended up overseeing a bunch of the different When I left, there was, people reporting into me And I was the youngest of the company. I had incredible mentors. I made a tonne of mistakes. It's one thing, like I'm not saying this, 'cause it was like, wow, I was so good that this just happened. I was good enough, - But I worked at it, and I and there was a lot of And I'm thankful for that. So, when I'm at a stage in my I've got some wealth, I've got a crazy experience to end up in like a, I think at the time, Fortune 10, Fortune 20 company, and I've been on that roller coaster and like forward through that And I thought, there's no reason... My first job was at Disneyland. That was one of the other So I still remember the into Bob Iger's office, the CEO, while we were negotiating this deal. I had to almost pinch myself going, &quot;Man, like I never imagined-&quot; - [Dan] You worked at as a teenager? - 'Cause you grew up in the US. - Yeah, so it was I'm sitting in the CEO's office negotiating the sale of my company. - [Dan] You can't make this stuff up. - No, no. And from that point on then, with board members of including Steve jobs and these others, and like having just this mind-blowing... All I can say is I was filled And I felt like imposter all the way through this experience. With a lot of time, a lot of therapy, and a lot of kind of processing, I realised, okay, rather than just like how can I now pivot this into I'm like, listen, who knows? Like I'm not against but I almost felt a responsibility to say how can I help others How can I make it a little bit easier for them to experience We built some infrastructure Oh, by the way, the end of that story, Accelerate Okanagan, their So 20% of their budgets and the real estate costs, and 80% is going to help other startups, which is one of the reasons Even throughout COVID, it's remained at full capacity, because the health of and the tech community here. Again, I'm not taking credit for that now. Everyone is really... I mean, we've got an but &quot;Dragon's Den&quot; was an opportunity to take some of those lessons and be able to encourage entrepreneurship, not just in my hometown, but kind of encourage and meet people from all around the world, or, I should say, all around Hear incredible stories, learn from them, share a little bit of what I've learned. - Hang out with Jim. - Dude, what a stud. He's a stud. Jim is the real deal. I mean, they're all - Yeah, Jim's the OG. I told you it's like I wish I would have had, 'cause he's just so wise and seasoned. - Jim is truly one of those guys, 'cause I'm guilty of it too and so many people are guilty I don't wanna waste time. Sometimes people wanna talk and it's like, &quot;Listen, I got 15 other &quot;I gotta go.&quot; Jim is the guy who will stop And he's usually towering over people, 'cause he's like six, five. And he'll talk your ear off. You wanna talk hockey, we'll talk hockey. You wanna talk business, He just has time for everyone. It's an amazing trait. I - Something to admire. As we wrap up, Lane, I looking back, from the 19, to the person that sits here today, you mentioned a lot of therapy, a lot of lessons learned, who have you had to that's achieved this level of success? - Hmm. That's a great question. I think, first and foremost, I had to become someone who And I see that mistake a They're so passionate about their idea. They're so excited about their idea. They end up kind of just and it might work for a time. They might even have some success with it, but then it starts to Then it starts to mess with workflow and getting in their own way. It starts to mess with their heads. It starts to mess with their families. It starts to mess with their friends, 'cause in success, it can and in failure, it can if it's all about you. I think number one, is I had great partners who reminded me daily it wasn't about me, and so that was helpful. People say Lance and I used to fight like an old married couple, but we always respected each other. Like we'd always hug it out at the end, but when we were arguing should be for those kids, and we were arguing on we were passionate about it, 'cause we were both very creative, and we both really wanted for the kids. And so having that was amazing. Having my own kids at the time reminded me every single that there's more to life than that. And then having great friends who also didn't really give a shit. I mean, I had some. I lost some friendships, of course, when the deal happened and all and I was this other thing And that's the nature of it sometimes. I don't blame them. And I don't even know why. Who knows what their experience or their experience I had one who wrote me a letter who literally was like, &quot;but I just need to pause &quot;because it's too hard &quot;with the success right now.&quot; And I get it. It was almost like the irony was I got the worst grades My siblings used to joke about whose couch I was gonna be sleeping on as I got older, 'cause my grades were so bad, and I was so distracted at school. I was focused on art and creativity. I was the last person anyone around me thought this would happen to. And I think that's one of but it's also been a reminder for me that it really about me. My uncle was an MP for 12, 15 years, something like that in I asked him, I'm like, &quot;Man, how do you go from 'cause he was a dairy farmer How do you go from being a farmer one day to like flying with the in Cold Lake and these crazy experiences and being he was a for quite a while as well under Harper. And I said, &quot;Like how do He said, &quot;Lane, I remind &quot;that the power is with the seat &quot;and the chair I'm sitting in. &quot;The power is not mine. &quot;I happen to be lucky enough &quot;Someday I won't be. &quot;I'll be sitting back in a tractor, &quot;and someone else will be sitting there.&quot; And as long as I remind myself every day that it's not about me, that and not about me, when I it won't be so hard, and I'll be able to graciously hand it off to the next person, because it was never about That really stuck with me, and I try to remind myself that every day. - Some wise words. For the ones that are listening and thank you for the inspiration, where's the best way for - I've got a website, lanemerrifield.com. So you just have to figure (both laugh) - Try Google, auto correct. I'm on Instagram and stuff. I just use my same handle for everything. So it's all @LaneMerrifield. Thankfully, it's a unique enough name that no one else took it. - Yeah, yeah, it's always available. So fun fact as we close up, Lane, I wouldn't be here if you 'cause this building houses Matt and Brad at Pela. And I came out for Brad's 25th with my little boy, and I just And then this year, with my wife, we kind of asked ourselves So how crazy is that that when you sat down with to design this epicentre and I know Metabridge bringing people here that So I'm sure if my family was - I love it. No, listen, man. - Nothing warms my heart 'cause that was what we set out to do. We didn't have to build The pieces were all there. They were just scattered across the city. So we said, well, why don't we and see what happens? And I love hearing that, man. Thank you for sharing that. And thanks for coming out here. - Dude, it's super cool. - When I heard that this was gonna be more than a temporary setup, And I'm happy for you and your family, 'cause I raised my kids here, and it's an incredible place to do that. But even more than that, I'm because, dude, you're rockstar, man. - It's an easy place to do life. Appreciate you, Lane. - You too, my friend. (upbeat music)