This is John Coltrane's Giant Steps. jazz albums of all time, jazz saxophonists and composers, the most revered and feared compositions in The reason why the album's title track is Coltrane wrote these unique chord changes them over traditional jazz standards. These chords came to be known as the Coltrane Changes -- and of passage for jazz musicians. But, if you don't understand a lick of music how this is so legendary. Lucky for me, I know two people that can explain Braxton Cook Braxton: Okay you caught me off guard And Adam Neely Adam: Should I get into the, like, technical jargony Let's cut to the logo first. So there's a moment in the Giant Steps recording this song is. It happens when Tommy Flanagan, the pianist Braxton: The story goes that John Coltrane go and then calls he this really fast tempo. Adam: If you hear on the recording, Tommy Flanagan just cannot handle the chord progressions as they're going by. His improvisation is very halted. Braxton: And Tommy Flannagan's just holding on for dear life. It really becomes apparent how much he struggled, speed the second Flanagan stops. Braxton: And then it goes down as like one of the most messed up. I'd want another shot. I'd To understand why this was so difficult for three basic concepts and it all starts with this: a color wheel for music. Braxton: Okay, awesome, you glued this stuff All twelve notes of the western musical scale but you might notice they're a little mixed That's because they're organized by a a fifth. What's a fifth? Braxton: It's like if you're in the C-major scale, you go C, D, E, F, G - right? 1,2,3,4,5. From C to G is five notes, from G to D is If you play through the circle you'll traverse C and ending up on the highest C. It sounds much more harmonious than just playing That's because... Adam: The fifth is a sound that our ears just Uh... please explain. Adam: Whenever we're hearing anything, whenever we're hearing people sing... Adam: Whenever we're hearing people play music, we're alongside the pitches that they're playing. When I play this C, the first two loudest tones one is just an octave higher. But other tones travel to our ears as well. The third loudest is a G, which happens to In 1973, Leonard Bernstein demonstrated this Listen closely after he hits that note. Bernstein: What do we hear now? That G, right? A new tone. Again, clear as a bell. You want to hear it again? Adam: These overtones are kind of like subliminal tones that you're hearing alongside a regular note. Adam: And you're hearing these overtones everywhere. A lot of western music is based on the power of the fifth, especially how it relates so Adam: In the case of the key of C major we Adam: And if you're thinking about what of tension. You want this to resolve. When it finally does resolve, Adam: it creates this feeling of finality, That five to one relationship is present in most common one found in jazz. The 2-5-1 Braxton:] The 2-5-1 essentially is like the backbone of most jazz music. Even in its most basic form it sounds super So it comes as no surprise the Coltrane Changes Which might raise the question: Why was to improvise over them? Well, the Coltrane Changes aren't in one They're basically a musical MC Escher painting. So each one of these rungs on the circle of fifths The closer a key is to another, the more notes Like the C major and G major scale - they're Okay, we need an analogy to describe this. Adam: So the way that I like to think about keys is kind of like languages that you have to learn as a jazz improviser. You have to be able to be fluent in a key. Like maybe C is Spanish and G is Portuguese. Those are very similar languages. Adam: If that's the case, like related language like maybe Japanese. Let's say Japanese is B. There's not much the same with keys. If you play those scales over each other... It sounds a lot more discordant. Adam: For the most part, most pop music is based around one of these key centers. For instance, Carly Rae Jepsen's "Cut to the But some songs modulate to another key for Like Beyonce's "Love on Top." Adam: Part of the reason why it's really exciting is because you're going to a place that's really distant on the circle of fifths. And you're creating a new sense of home. But, it doesn't just happen once, it happens end of the song. Adam: And when you chart that sort of thing These types of patterns are what fascinated he was trying to push jazz harmony to its This is his study of the circle of fifths. Braxton: I think what makes Giant Steps really special is that it really just, it just documented super stylistic, and virtuosic at the same Here's the first 16 bars of Giant Steps If you chart those changes on the circle of That's because these keys are separated 3 equal parts. On the circle of fifths these three keys are Adam: Giant Steps is kind of like you're very quickly. By quickly, he means like every two beats Adam: It's not only just like you're saying a sentence out of the language. And how does Coltrane make those disparate phrases in jazz, the five one. Adam: What he's doing is taking some of the conventional ideas of tonal harmony, the conventional relationships applying it to this very chaotic circling, sort of chord progression that is the Coltrane Changes. Adam: So if we were all in the same key, it would sound like this. Adam: But because we're going from key center to key center, it sounds very different. This is why the Coltrane Changes are like Even though you're seeing things from a like you've made it home somehow. When Tommy Flanagan saw the charts for Giant to play this chord progression - he was going very quickly. Braxton: That was probably so funny, he was probably like, &quot;What?!&quot; Adam: It is a bit of a rite of passage to but you can also improvise in all 12 Adam: Now, generations of jazz musicians are approaching Giant Steps as the sort of pinnacle of improvisation. Wait. I think I've got an analogy for this. of only knowing one way to get somewhere, street just in case. Braxton: It's essentially like that. You still get to the same location, but it's really interesting and you might see some really cool stuff in the neighborhood. Braxton: But ultimately I still think the back home. Thanks so much for watching the first of three videos I'm going to release in the next couple of weeks on Jazz. I want to give a special thanks to Braxton Cook and Adam Neely. Between the time that I interviewed Braxton and now, he's released a full album. Please check it out below and of course special, special thanks to Adam Neely. You can check out his YouTube channel below. Until next time!