Hey, Erin. Welcome. Can you hear me? Oh, good. Hey, welcome. Feel free to activate your mic I think I'm going to wait another minute and then we're going to start. From which account are you joining, Erin? Nice. Nice. Do you already implemented on your end, How advanced are you with this? Okay. Perfect. new features, and new releases Perfect. Perfect. Feel free after the session to the other team members. It looks like two minutes went It looks like a private session today, that you might have. if you want, but the chat is also perfect. Maybe some other participants Let me know if you have any questions. I'm part of the Kaltura training team. of the Kaltura events series, Let's go ahead For the timeline we are doing the overview one, Later on, we have the Chat where we focus on all the different that you have to engage Then later on we have also where we focus on all the interactive similar to what we are using now We have three different webinars so I recommend you also register The agenda for today, we're going to go Then we're going to see the Branded We have some new user options. We also have Media Management, Engagement, I see that we have another participant. Feel free to write me We're just getting started, Okay. Moving on. to understand the platform. Management Platform as we are going to learn today, and manage existing or new events. will be the Events site itself, and view the different sessions. you can create just one session, of different types, communication, similar to In some use cases, if it's part of your package very easily to the video portal. Let me know if you have any questions. Hello. Welcome. I'm from Kaltura. Yes. I'm a new hire here in Kaltura. Yes. Thank you. I'm moving on to the next one, and we're going Okay. I just want to make sure Let me know. Perfect. Okay, so this is my management environment. As we can see here, and we even It's going to be a personal view You can see here a different view depending on your personal view history. a list of current events, meaning events or in the future, so events that already occurred What else do we have here? We're going to do it together very soon, the events showcase. a very cool showcase to my potential participants I can either just copy a URL or even take an embed code in my external or internal site. or share the details of this event We can change the theming You can copy the embed code and to this page. description, and logo, the specific events If you want to highlight specific events, and then change Showcase Settings. to unpublished, published, or highlight That's a really useful feature Erin, at the moment are you already using or it's something Perfect. In that case, I hope that this info will be useful. on your environment As you can see, it's just a generated URL Of course, you can do both and highlight them or unpublished them, Okay, so that's regarding the showcase. that in the future. that we have here. This is only admin superusers This is the admin user I just need to enter their email, and we have a few new roles Admin can do everything, can open, and manage and control all the events. the event manager can create new events but to have the permissions they need to be assigned to every event. It's good to see you. so you're right on time. I'm just muting you, feel free to unmute yourself, of course. you. The first type is the admin user. and control all the events. and manage the assigned events We're going to review how The content manager is also a new one. to specific events to create new sessions, They will not have access and they will not be able You have kind of subtypes of admin users and content managers. Before I move on, about the three different types of users Here you create them. To briefly show you, under the event team, This one is an event manager, for example, like content managers, and add them to this specific event Any questions about that? To view videos, I think within the event itself. first part of this session, on the management platform, and uploads the content. to the front-end side, we will see how Those types of users passive viewers, and part of the event, only from the participation side. the team member, as I mentioned. to analytics here. The analytics dashboard meaning all the events For every event, and even for every session. you will see the analytics If it's relevant to you from here, We can add some different integrations. and Marketo integration. to the entire account. within every event to make the connection Now let's go ahead I just want to show you how easy it is. Here we have a few different options. meaning you can create an event and just start and enter the design, the different details, If you choose one of the other options, with the first session. For example, with an interactive session That will be very similar We are all in one room, The participants can actively activate and talk with the speaker This is the interactive session option, to small or medium audiences. This one has an unlimited amount because it's broadcast, Then we can broadcast To interact with the participants, the chat and collaboration widget and all the cool interactive tools The next option is the pre-recorded live That means that you upload a recording and then just at the relevant time, to a TV show that is being broadcast. or town halls for a very large audience. that everything will run smoothly, and then broadcast it Then during the broadcast, that this is an actual live session, The last one is the DIY live broadcast. that I'm using now for this webinar. a kind of virtual studio. to an unlimited amount of users All the speakers can be all over the world. now, deliver the session, about a number of participants The connection will be smooth will be available. the live webcast option. with the live webcast as the first option. We can add a description here and the end time of the event. and end time of the entire event. and each user but make sure to set it at the right time. Attendees will log into the event meaning that once they register, a kind of magic link. or they can set their credentials, email, so you can choose one of those. we also have an SSL integration option, These are the two common options Now I'm going to click on Create. because it's now creating I will show you that in a minute I'm going to wait a minute just and if you have any questions, I do have a question, to the event creation. Can I continue, Yes, of course. It doesn't matter when. Go ahead. creating an event, that is going to be on YouTube. that we want to stream Is that a possibility? the question. When you create an event? Essentially, we are going to host and my company, a YouTube live event. to stream that live event a stream that event Got it. Are you already working like a project manager on this one? that I'm evaluating this. I know that we have everything. at the technical implications for internally Got it. I will show you today related to live webcasting. for the encoder and then use this YouTube stream I'm not one hundred percent sure I'm going to show you Then later on, I will check for you in this specific use case and then broadcasting it internally, Thank you so much. Thank you so much. Of course. Thank you. None of them is required mandatory. all the technical details because once I've created so I can mix and match live webcasts. that will be an interactive room, will be pre-recorded. Within one event, I'm going to show you all the options Thank you for all the great questions. If I click here of how the event site not only to us, the admin users. this is kind of a generic event If I'm a participant, I can click on Join Now Here we can add of course If we have an additional session, with all the different sessions. where we have separate training Going back, I want to show you an event We created a demo event for us. This is an event available on the platform. In the overview, and it leads us to the event details, We have the title. that we can add to the entire event. that we've generated Now this one is very nice. What does that mean? before the start time of the event, will see this lobby page. It's just the option without all the info and the agenda of the event. and the name of the event, If you want to give your participants Of course, we can customize and you can design it In the early access, and it can be even in days or weeks and see the event itself Instead of this generic lobby page, if we enable early access they will be able to see If you upload any VOD media content, to watch this one as well. to access the event site beforehand, You can change five minutes, five hours, and so on and of course, This is regarding early access We also have a new option to add labels. With time, you will probably have You will have a very long list You can add labels to the events. and I can see only events that are labeled How do I add labels to events? From the Event Detail, or you can add your own. and just like that, and then add this label to categorize them and find much faster. That's regarding the event details. Here you can see all the speakers I'm going to show you that very soon As we saw from here to see how the participants Moving on to branding. the logo, and the theming That's cool. Here is the banner. By the way, we also have an option a platform here to just copy an event. the things that will be copied is the branded look and feel. and when you copy that, It will save you some time. I'm moving on to the registration. of the options to invite participants Now I'm going to go back one step and unpublish this one. that you can share later We can design this one, and edit some fields. first name and email but let's say you don't need a state. change the name of this field that is more relevant to your use case, Then you can click on Done, and even add or delete existing ones very easily. and edit the registration page. and saved my changes, Then I can either copy the link my site, or just send it via email, and they can register Of course, we earlier saw we also have the CTA button That's very useful. for the showcase as a participant. to the same registration form This is regarding the registration. to invite participants to your event. before I move on? I do have another question. Some users, for some events, the number of attendees at an event. of attendees that joined an event? be like a public number It will be only visible to you You will know how many participants on all the different session types, will be private to the event managers. Yes. Of course. I'm moving on to the Agenda. within this event, create additional ones, so you can see live webcast session, We have all the different types here. and edit one of the existing ones. I can click on the three dots First of all, from here similar to the event site. will look like They will see the speakers, and then when the time will arrive it will just be replaced We can copy the session link to the relevant participants if needed. if you have it as part of your package, this live webcast session on this specific session. similar to your previous question Aron, and YouTube, this is an option meaning to take your session or other platforms. of the platform. here we have the title of the session, and time of this specific session, just the session, Here we can add speakers and moderators. Speakers is mainly a metadata field, and will be presented here This is more for the participants. Moderators will have the extra permission use the moderator chat, Sometimes we can even set someone if you want them and also have full capability with the chat and collaboration widget. we want to add someone How I'm adding speakers and moderators? Here I have speakers and moderators. I can just click here and populate the relevant details, If they will be a speaker you can set them as both. company bio, and so on, it is to invite someone as a speaker, After I invite the speaker they will be available Clicking here to edit, I need now that they are relevant to moderate First, we added them on the event level and then we added them they are relevant to. By the way, similar to the room that we're using now, the full capabilities of the room. to add moderators Here we have a link to the moderation app directly to the moderators, Then participants can ask the admins, about your services, about the platform, If we have a large amount of participants, As I said earlier, just for this app. Site visibility. meaning I can see it here However, if the session is not ready yet, I can change it to private or unlisted, appear here on the list. you can access this specific page. regarding the publishing of every session. because it's a live webcast if participants access the session page, to watch the recording of this session. ends, they will see the recording If you prefer to upload your recording that they will watch you can upload it here in advance. this will be the VOD available Now, because it's a live webcast, like the encoder code, From here you will find for the encoder to broadcast this session. about the live webcast session? and to broadcast this session that do not require the encoder use. but I understood from Kaltura to other platforms, that I asked Exactly. We do have the ability here, I will check also, to do the other way around for Kaltura internally. As you mentioned, the other way around very simply. Perfect. Okay, so this is the agenda. move on to the next session type. Click on Edit. Most of it will be similar but here we also need Why? It's a pre-recorded session, the recording in advance. and upload the video, arrive simply on that page, It will be kind of a live experience Of course, the participants with the moderators here for the chatter. polls, and so on to make the experience and similar to a live session. This is how easy it is to create Again, we can add speakers, and to share with the participants to moderate the chat and the polls. to the previous settings. if we have them. That's very similar to the webinar You are with me within the class, so this is dedicated Click on edit. but the moderators All the moderators here will be able open the room, and control the room, invite them to the stage, and share the screen. within this interactive room. is the DIY live webcast. from here and just broadcasting it That means that no limitation because only the speakers This is the launch studio if I'm a moderator and manage the broadcast By the way, you will learn more on the interactive session webinar of the three webinar series. is similar to the previous sessions. copy a studio link and then share it Remember, they have to be moderators If they will be just speakers, but not manage the studio. both as speakers and moderators to control the room. If you want to upload we can also do that. Before I move on, about this agenda tab anything that you would like to ask Okay. In that case, I'm going to move on and under media, firstly, the interactive session option. of the media tab. to the event, my virtual classroom session will be here under media. The other webcast-based session, will be part of the session. and you will be able For the interactive session, under the VOD content. of the virtual sessions, you can also upload your own VOD content before the session starts. if you enable early access if you have some relevant VOD content, For example, you see this one is private. and make it instead of private, Click on Save. Okay. Now we will refresh You can see that I've added In any month you can just unpublish and you can even see to make it unlisted. in this section, you can access it. for specific VOD content. about the viewers of this content. I'm going to move on to the people section Under all users, within this event, or just standard participants or speakers You can invite them one by one. I can set them as a moderator by populating the email, first name, Then they will get a registration or I can bulk invite using a CSV file, many participants at once. As we mentioned earlier, and share the link wherever you want just share the showcase and here they Another way to do it, as we just saw, them one by one or in bulk Now, I'm going to move on. for speakers and moderators, and who are the speakers. especially important for the speakers on the event site with their picture. at the beginning, I mentioned We have a content manager I don't need to add admin users but if you want a user you can add them here. If you want someone and edit sessions within this event, we can also add someone as what we call a content manager To remind you, event managers and manage them. to the events to manage them. the admin user to let them manage this event, We have a lot of permissions with the users who manage That was regarding the people. Most of the interaction sections when we talk about chat I just want to show you that under emails, that they will get when they are invited and the login email. that you can either use as is and very easily send it or specific groups You have a lot of cool options template email that you can share Here we even have an outbox that were already sent. click here and copy the event, will also be copied to the next event. Regarding the notification, on the chat and collaboration webinars, a crowd reaction with some smiley faces. within the event site That will be covered very thoroughly I'm going to skip this part. all the different analytics Let's start Here we will have all the info We have the overall turnout and registration percentage and how many of them attended. register users, and so on. of trends over time. it will be more interesting to view. or mobile and geolocation This is regarding registration, a PDF report of this info. that will show us and engage with our content Here we see this media section. to the VOD content, the number of times or the page was loaded. they click on the play button Sometimes the plays will be a lower number unique viewers, minutes viewed, and so on. here it's only for the last 30 days. make sure to change this time frame, here now much more information. countries and types of playback, We can export CSV of parts of this report or even download We have the top videos. on the VOD content, not the live session, and metrics of trends over time, Again, the top videos, how many plays, the average completion rate of this video, meaning how many player impressions how many of them translated to plays. and then what We see that fifty percent If we change it, for example, only sixteen percent of the viewers the whole thing. You can play around of the content they watched. Now I'm going to move on We have a lot of useful reports. that you can generate The other ones are very relevant the chat activity, on the transcript. the polls will be super relevant for later and what will be the transcript. into this one because it will be covered but this is also some analytics or reports or after the event. you is some more analytics, Let's start with the live webcast. and I can click View Analytics This is only Here we have the real-time dashboard. with some more info. Here we have the unique viewers view it live compared to the recording. and live engagement, sent live reactions like the smiley faces, Also, play recording, they watch this, and what device Again, we can view the report, you can see the real-time dashboard. for monitoring the broadcast During the live session, the broadcast, and it's dynamic. It shows the active users meaning with sound and full screen We can even see here and average bitrate and the broadcast running Here we can see a kind This is the place for you to monitor of the live session We can also see here geolocation for example, how many users meaning users that actually with the sound This can be super useful. It's very relevant Now the dashboard becomes pretty heavy and uploads some info, after seven days, This is the only dashboard After seven days, it will be deleted. The other ones What we recommend doing after the session or all of it, or even take screenshots, I just want to emphasize is something that will be deleted but I mainly use it during the broadcast. that I've shared They will not be deleted, ever. to the live webcast. I will have some analytics to the engagement during the session. as compared to the engagement rate, compared to the recording, and so on. you will also see more detailed analytics, This is analytics on the session level, earlier different dashboards Any questions about analytics Okay. I'm going to move on Here we have integration implemented on the account, If on the management platform, to HubSpot, Marketo, or Salesforce, for every event very easily. to the presentation and summarize. we will have a lot of time for questions. for questions. Let's summarize. that we mentioned That will include the pre-recorded the one that we upload and then broadcast it and the live webcast, Then we don't have any limitation because it's been broadcast This is when I'm taking this room and broadcasting it giving them the live engagement experience like the chat and collaboration polls. communication-based session, This is dedicated We can invite participants to the stage Of course, we can remove them As a moderator, and as we said, the recording will be part of the media section All the other ones within the session, immediately after the session you can even replace the recording Event Look and Feel, We can change the banner, the logo, and the presenter biography. and we can design the registration page End User Management, The first one was a magic link or email and password. we can either let them register if we share it via email, or invite either one by one participants in bulk. Then we can choose or email and password. to do an integration of your SSO, will simply use the SSO That's also super useful, that will need The different users that we have. whatever is available within the platform, and manage all the sessions. and view all the existing events, to the event by one of the admin users, within this specific event. We also saw called Content Manager. the analytics and the reports, and edit the session. that can be assigned to specific events. and can be an interactive room host I can mute, and unmute everyone, This will be the moderator during the other sessions. and they can join the studio room Besides that, it's mainly a metadata field A VOD management. Everything will be saved all the different VODs you upload, will also be in that section. if it's a broadcast-based recording, on the session itself. were the engagement one, and the session meaning for every session, on the session level I just covered everything We have a lot of time for questions. if you have any questions. We have a lot of time, so go ahead. Of course, if you don't have I would love to hear from you from today's training, and which features after you learned I see we do have some. How many events I'm not aware of any limitations, make sure to check that. Aron, you asked about the recording right, of this one, of this webinar? Regarding the branding of the event, that is not out of the box. with the Kaltura events team, with your phones. we have the ability, and the logo, and change the theming If it's relevant to your use case, and then it will be available for you with just one click of a button. Erin, I see. Yes. Erin, I hope that I understand but for example, for webinars, Then you can invite participants but also any other type of session because you can interact or your participants This is why I recommend to all of you the chat and collaboration training To show you, this is an example of the event During the session, to send questions or enable the group chat. We can also send That's definitely for live events You have many interactive tools, Here we can see some examples, separate training for that. if that answers the question. Of course. Any other questions? Perfect Erin, are great because You will see all the different options and which session I would say as a general comment is where you want the participants to be, that you can invite them to the stage The other ones are more but you can still interact through the chat and the pre-recorded live one This one is we have a recording, and we can interact The other ones are live. Perfect. What I'm going to do now is, please feel free to stay with me I'm here. If you have any other questions, If you don't have any other questions, and enjoy the remaining time. It was a pleasure to meet you all Of course, I will send you the recording Feel free to share it I'm looking forward to seeing you that we mentioned earlier. It's nice to meet you. Perfect Erin. and to see you in the future webinars. Aron, let me know