(intriguing music) - [Narrator] 362 million people don't have internet access in China. That's roughly 30 million more people than the entire US population. But this rocket holds a possible solution to help China close the gap. Inside it are low-Earth orbit satellites capable of providing even in remote areas. In China, this technology - [Controller] Ignition. - [Narrator] But Starlink, a subdivision of the has already launched 4,768 of them, making it the leader across the globe. Although space is vast, in a specific area that's To ensure its place, China is Just two decades ago, 59.1 million people in China were online, just 4.6% of its population then. Now, it's over 1 billion So is the country known capable of rivaling Starlink? Of the roughly 8,000 currently in orbit, about and the position of its satellites is key. For decades, satellite internet providers relied on geostationary satellites. These satellites are far away, about 22,000 miles above That distance lets them cover a large area and reach remote parts of the globe, but it takes longer for data to travel between the satellite and the user. This means the broadband has Often, geostationary at least 25 megabits per second, which is enough to stream in HD and can support about But satellites in low-Earth no more than 1,200 miles This means that while a LEO satellite can't cover as much area as it can provide more stable Though SpaceX got its it has built up a big powered by LEO satellites. And a key to its success? It owns every step of the process. SpaceX manufactures the satellites and launches them with its and Falcon 9 boosters, the part that blasts the rocket saving SpaceX money on launch costs. - They have a very capable launch division that is regularly blasting for governments, and for itself. - [Narrator] And it can into low-Earth orbit per trip. In 2014, China opened its space sector up to private investment. Five years later, startups in China received over $314 million in funding. The only country that was the US. - [Narrator] In the same year, SpaceX alone received $962 million. To be more self-sufficient, China has been investing in In 2021, it established it hopes will streamline the and form a broadband network. So far, China says it will Plus, the China Aerospace Science and the China Aerospace Science have each launched experimental satellites into low-Earth orbit. And startup GalaxySpace launched several operational to begin its 1,000-satellite but so far, no enterprise in to launch these satellites that's as advanced as the Falcon 9. However, Beijing Tianbing Technology appears to be getting closer. While the company doesn't it sent a liquid fuel rocket into orbit for the first time earlier this year. Experts say this is a crucial step to creating a reusable rocket. Ultimately, the company that can deploy up to 60 similar to Falcon 9's capabilities. - It's not easy to like get you know, hundreds or thousands or tens of thousands of satellites You need a rocket that can, you know, make those trips Satellites in low-Earth they have to be replaced, so to kind of continually launch satellites - [Narrator] Altogether, this makes the barrier to entry quite high. McKinsey estimates the cost to launch an operable constellation with yearly operating costs running another $1 to $2 billion. So what's the benefit? - The marketplace that SpaceX has always been after is global. - [Narrator] SpaceX said in April that Starlink was available and within the next few in many more countries - SpaceX has been going around the world to get permission from national regulators to sell Starlink connections. - [Narrator] But it's not alone. Cooperation in space is a key part of China's Belt and Road Initiative, a global infrastructure project. Last year, China said it had formed 149 space cooperation agreements with 46 national space agencies and already it's provided Europe, and Asia with Beidou, a global navigation satellite system that rivals US-owned GPS. Major Chinese companies built infrastructure across the world too. Up to 70% of 4G network was built by Huawei. - There are, you know, billions that don't have have any internet at all. Beyond that, there's like for high-speed internet. - [Narrator] And that demand is part of what's driving Starlink, China and companies everywhere to build these LEO constellations, but- - Satellite internet, at least right now, faces like real cost challenges relative to traditional on the ground for internet connections. I don't think that like will take over and provide like global high-speed internet capacity. - [Narrator] One of the biggest concerns facing the sector's expansion is overcrowding in low-Earth orbit. By 2030, US officials estimate there will be 58,000 satellites, about a 725% increase from the In just the past two years, for more than 64,000 satellites, and experts at NASA and the FCC fear that more satellites Already there are over at least the size of a that could destroy a satellite on impact. - If you assume that of additional satellites to low-Earth orbit in the coming years, there's gonna be a real need finding ways for all these operators to sort of know where how they're moving and what like the potential threat Low-Earth orbit, it's sort There's some treaties that what experts and government around good space behavior. It's a little more on actors there to sort of (intriguing music)