Shunan City, Yamaguchi Prefecture, JR Tokuyama Station Shunan City is a city surrounded by the sea and mountains and rich in nature. It is also known as the birthplace of longline fishing for fugu , and was selected by the New York Times as the third place in the world as one of 52 places to visit in 2024. It is also a place that is attracting a lot of attention.This time, I photographed Yamaguchi, which once prospered with more than 20 food stalls.Currently , there is only one food stall run by the general, but for 46 years, it has been selling ramen and other food stalls. We took a close look at a day in the life of Mr. Yamaguchi, the stall owner who serves his famous local chicken and is crowded with regulars.This is the owner of the Ramen stall Karen- tei. The previous storage location for the food stall was in a low location, so it was quite difficult to move the food stall.Even so, it was very difficult to move the food stall because it was so large and heavy . Thank you for helping me move the food stall.I fixed the position of the food stall.A gentle general with a wonderful smile.He always greets children on their way home from school.He is also popular with local children.Neighbors call out to him. The owner of the food stall was cheered on by the locals.The couple who approached me earlier say they run a shop in the neighborhood.``There used to be a lot more food stalls.'' Since the economy is not doing well, it's fine if it's a place like Hakata where a lot of people gather , but since people come here for business trips or to enjoy drinking, the number of food stalls is gradually decreasing. I learned about the article stalls when I saw the news on the Shinkansen on the way back from reporting in Fukuoka, and I wanted to interview them if I had the chance.I saw the newspaper I photographed and saw the customers carrying various things. The general's food stall has gas equipment and a stove installed under the stall.The food stall's power supply says that the food stall business is very difficult to prepare and clean up, so it's like having fun while it's open . They have been refusing interviews from local TV stations for a long time, but since people are also using the food stalls, they are planning to interview them soon . I heard that it happened, but I wish they had come to take the photo when the food stalls were more crowded.It was previously broadcast on NHK.In addition to preparing the ramen soup and preparing the oden , there are other things like gas and electricity. Things are getting more expensive and it's getting harder to continue doing business.In the old days, people used to ask taxi drivers to find shops, but now we can find them on the internet.When I started my own food stall. Well, since I don't know how to make ramen, I can't serve food that I thought was bad after trying it myself.The owner's stall doesn't have running water, so it's very difficult to go to get water . While you're away, we'll introduce you to the menus offered at the food stalls.You can enjoy dishes such as oden and grilled foods, as well as rice dishes such as the popular tataki chicken from Kagoshima Prefecture, salt-grilled ramen , and fried rice.Drinks include beer and shochu. In addition to sake, we also have alcoholic beverages such as whiskey and cocktails.The owner has returned.While the food stall is being prepared, many people come and visit the food stall.For those who stopped by, the bar is open. Previously , I had a customer from Shimane Prefecture who told me that they were holding an Oden Festival, and that there were many kinds of oden, but this was the first time I had ever seen one with eggplant in it. I started adding eggplant to oden because it was well received by customers , but I didn't know what to put in it, so I recommend Anping-fu, which is a specialty of Yamaguchi Prefecture and is not an ingredient to put in oden. However, when I tried adding it as an ingredient, it was also well-received.Anpei- fu, made in Ogori, Yamaguchi Prefecture , is commonly used as an ingredient in sukiyaki.Vegetables are boiled in hot water to give it a sweet taste. Apparently, because the ramen noodles are boiled, the noodles themselves become sweeter.When I was doing an interview with NHK, a comedian from Yamaguchi, ``Ika-chan,'' came and interviewed me, and here is what he signed at the time. However, since the owner's oden stall sells popular foods such as homemade cabbage rolls , the owner says it's best not to include animals, but he occasionally brings in a 7-month-old golden retriever named &quot;Thunder-kun.&quot; " Regular customers and customers take him for walks in place of the busy owner, and he is loved as a sign dog. He is wearing a Hiroshima Carp apron and it is almost time for business to start. Preparations for business. Once the preparation is complete, we are open for business! Assortment of fried rice and chashu.Assortment of fried sausage and oden.Beef miso slowly stewed in miso is also popular.Addictive tonkotsu ramen curry ramenThe chef's specialty is a dish made with Satsuma chicken shipped directly from Kagoshima. Salt-grilled Kagoshima chicken ``This is delicious, isn't it?'' I don't add seasoning to the soup fried rice because it makes the flavor strong. Soup fried rice Soup fried rice is an unusual menu that I can't make when I'm busy. I'll be back tomorrow too. Curry ramen with rice. I think this stall was the first place that started making curry ramen.I recommend the curry ramen that has been popular for 45 years.Karen -tei's popular menu ``Curry Ramen.'' Thin Chinese noodles made from a long-established noodle factory with thick pork bones in a thick curry soup stock and a delicious spicy flavor.A melty pork char shu with plenty of collagen and crunchy bean sprouts for a refreshing taste . Eat it, add rice, and make it into a Chinese curry bowl.It 's an ojiya-style meal that allows you to enjoy the deliciousness from start to finish.On this day, the customers return early, and we begin cleaning up the food stalls.Even in the TV coverage, we did everything from preparation to cleanup. This is the first time I've ever taken a photo shoot.The busiest thing I've ever done is preparing at home.I'm often told that I should look for a successor, but when I was young, I didn't think there was anyone who would take over . It was a good time to open a food stall and a lot of customers would come , so I didn't feel that bad about it, but times have changed and I don't think there are many young people who want to open a food stall.Q . What if someone wants to help or take over the business?If there is someone who really wants to do it, we welcome it, but running a food stall is very difficult and I don't think it will last long.In the past, food stalls were also profitable. I think that's why I was able to keep going.There were times when I had customers until 6 or 7 in the morning.Even so, I was able to do my best the next day.I think there are people who want to do it just by paying lip service, but it's not that easy. I'm sure there are people who have the money and hire people to run food stalls, but those people think that they're definitely not good enough. I can't believe that the customers who came to eat ramen will come back. Even when I'm cleaning up the food stall, many groups of customers come. In the old days when the economy was good, you could turn on the lights and people would come. At that time, there were a lot of food stalls, but when customers arrived during preparations, the preparations would not go ahead, so the owner used to leave the food stalls in the dark without turning on the lights. I was near Hakata Station when the Hakata subway was under construction , so I was used to seeing lots of people , but when I came to Tokuyama, I was surprised to find that there were more people there than in Hakata. It was a time when there were many people around day and night, and I remember being very surprised. Washing and tidying up was more difficult than preparing it. Having to let leftover oden cool before putting it in the refrigerator was a real pain . In the store, there are surprisingly many items that no longer sell.I used to have a student come to help me, but he quit last year, so after looking at the store's situation, I thought I'd try my best on my own. If you get used to having people around, you'll find it even more difficult when you're alone.If you're alone all the time, you'll get used to it and be able to do business.Even while cleaning up, you'll see a lot of customers coming to the general's stall. Because we operate at an intersection, there was a lot of traffic, and there were many traffic accidents. Even though there were four locations, there were no cars coming to the location where the stall was located , and we have been working with the neighbors for a long time. We all know each other through various relationships, but over the past year or two, I feel like I've been getting more and more complaints about people getting in the way of passing traffic, drunk people making loud noises, and recently, there's been an increase in apartment buildings in this town, and people have moved in. With the lack of water facilities, fetching water is also a difficult task.This chair was also made by a customer.It is also difficult to clean the pavement around the food stalls after business hours are over. You're tired , right? I'm going to go home, clean up my things , prepare soup for tomorrow for about an hour, and then prepare for about 3 hours starting around 12:00 and go shopping, hoping I can get to bed early in the morning. But other than that, I just sleep and get ready again.I think it's amazing that I've been doing this for 46 years.``You can't help but think that things were better in the old days,'' said the general. The food stall &quot;Karen-tei&quot; is a food stall run by a proprietor who wants the food stall to continue to run energetically for as long as possible.