In Game of Thrones Season 7, we learn that . He's the son of Rhaegar Targaryen , which has sex with his aunt. Rhaegar's dead now. So's Viserys Targaryen, and Aerys and Aemon In the books, there's still Bloodraven, claims to be Targaryen. But Brynden's a tree , and Griff might be So really, Daenerys and Jon are the last Targaryens for centuries, and last of the dragonlords Valyria was an empire that ruled half the hundred years ago, it exploded. This was the Doom of Valyria, and it's a Lannister gold, and the legacy of Daenerys So Valyria was a peninsula to the east of Thousands of years ago , the Valyrians were the Fourteen Flames - until they discovered . At the time, the area was dominated by geese . So the Valyrians and their dragons conquered slaves . The Valyrians expanded , building called themselves the Freehold, cause all wherever they conquered, the Freehold took Flames to mine for gold and silver . Valyria dragonflame to shape stone into beautiful roads , and colonies - Valyria's like incest - the dragonlords traditionally married They believed they were "descended from "pure" . The dragonlords lived in the in an endless struggle for "power and glory". Valyria was the "center of civilization" Every hill in Valyria erupted with fire, smoke from the sky. The earth cracked open and swallowed whole Lakes boiled and the sea flooded in. The clouds rained obsidian and "black blood". Within hours, the whole peninsula was "shattered" and technology, like how to make Valyrian survive this Doom were the Targaryens, who Targaryen foresaw the Doom in a dream . So and Jon, settled on Dragonstone, and would Now, four hundred years after the Doom, Valyria "demon-haunted" . In the show, Tyrion in the books - no one returns from Valyria. Whole fleets and armies have disappeared there, . Euron Greyjoy claims to have been there is demons, or toxic volcanic fumes, the place . But what was the Doom, and what caused it? The Doom might have been a natural volcanic the Doom to the eruption of Krakatoa, and But Valyria, he says, involved magic . Valyria and volcanoes, it's called the "Lands far north Westeros, called the Lands of Always magic. These two places seem like centres of ice to the irregular seasons. The north had an icy disaster in the Long the Doom - and this affected the world's "when the Doom fell on Valyria", "Magic returning . So the point is that Valyria had - and the Valyrians fucked with it. The Valyrians were sorcerers , and for thousands the Fourteen Flames . But at the same time, . These were volcanoes full of magma and "firewyrms", And yet they kept mining, deeper and deeper the Rings, the dwarves of Moria "delved the fiery balrog . Maybe Valyria is similar and set off the Fourteen Flames . Cause that's world - we're told over and over that arrogance thought they could control it, but So now their ruins stand like Ozymandias or the mining of magic volcanoes. But there's still more to the story. In Book 4, Arya joins the Faceless Men - a trained by "the kindly man", who tells among the slaves who mined the Fourteen Flames the mines that they wished for death . [] The death to a slave . Arya argues that the man masters instead . And he replies that the well ... but that is a tale for another day" caused the Doom of Valyria . Which makes sense they're now based in Braavos, which was the Faceless worship death, so killing thousands time. But how could the Faceless cause the Doom? One theory is that they used dragon eggs - at a deadly fire . Maybe the Faceless used lots But there's another possibility that ties The worldbook says that Valyrian "sorcerers destroy them". Casterly Rock is home to the Lannisters, who Valyrian times. [] But for some reason, the Valyrians never they were so hungry for gold that they were Maybe the Valyrians avoided the Lannisters back then really wanted a Valyrian steel sword like Stark's Ice, and Tarly's Heartsbane. [] So "in the century before the Doom" for a huge amount of "gold" . We don't but if this gold went to Valyria it could've How could gold cause the Doom? The great families of Valyria were in "constant" each other - which was a problem, cause spells held back the Fourteen Flames . The were assassinated, so the spells failed, and assassinations were carried out by the assassins kill for free - they charge a high price gold that a Valyrian got by selling Brightroar. So the Valyrians were so caught up in their their own destruction, giving prophecy gold and oppression. As Tyrion says, Valyria was built on blood sown . from the text - Lannister gold paid for magic and caused the Doom . But you can add Cause it may be that the Valyrians ordered cause the Doom. But maybe it was deliberate. Maybe one of these warring families wanted last dragonlords standing. We know the Targaryens were a fairly minor their rivals thought them cowards . But maybe to cause the Doom to destroy their enemies to Dragonstone, and watched their homeland the world , free to be the unopposed rulers Maybe House Targaryen, Daenerys and Jon's betrayal. But that's just speculation. Whatever caused the Doom, Valyria has lessons Because the Valyrians were assholes. They seemed to think that just cause they the world. They conquered peaceful peoples, and worked theories of racial superiority, they're So when they destroyed themselves with their to feel sorry for them. Valyrian blood gives Dany and Jon the power But the ruins of Valyria should remind them The Doom of Valyria destroyed a whole civilisation's Skills like the forging of Valyrian steel Luckily, our world's knowledge and skills Skillshare is an online learning site with writing, and forging steel . So if you want We've used Skillshare to learn some After really high quality courses. If you want to learn how to start a business, empire of blood and fire, sign up for Skillshare link below. Thank you to History of Westeros for scripting And thanks to the Patrons, including Zach Leslie Mercado, Tristan Sather, Natasha Lea, Cheers.