Have you ever heard a piece of Ever heard part of a soundtrack during a Well, apparently, so did When he directed A Fistful of Dollars--the first of three movies starring Clint Eastwood as the score until after the film had been shot. Morricone--with whom he had actually attended but as is fairly common in making a movie, By the time Leone made the third movie--The Good, in the process that he had composed some pieces had them in his mind while he was filming some To put it one way, then, as Leone biographer "what we're watching ... in the summer of This is especially evident in After sitting with the movie for at least 2 original Italian cut--this is truly the moment the the moment that Tuco (played by Eli Wallach) cemetery where, he believes, houses the grave in excitement, the ecstasy--the ecstasy of gold. Ennio Morricone's "The Ecstasy of Gold". On the piano is a four-note ostinato--simple but enchanting--as Tuco realises where he is and begins and a single chime of the tubular bell. As Tuco's search increases to a run, so too does the music, with drums galloping along And alongside the drums comes perhaps the soprano voice of Edda Dell'Orso, whose cut away after an elevating 56-second shot. as Tuco's run does, before all three plateau Tuco takes a second to gather his surroundings as the audience does the same. Morricone's music really propels especially as its intensity increases--and, in line with the music. Unlike elsewhere in the because this isn't really meant to be intense so the camera does most It's truly exciting and uplifting--and it has, a charming scene, and a charming piece of music. the two recurring trumpet sounds as the ghosts As for why this scene is so strangely I think film historian Tim Lucas put it best: can now feel in his bones that everything that he grandly, here, on this day". "And because we've but see ourselves in him". "Our hearts bolt of a devil [...] perhaps". "And as the scene maddens And the scene just keeps going. A lot of other cut the scene short, but Leone truly set his own increases in tempo with the speed of the montage, graves blur past. There are gorgeous shots of the focus while the background--the ecstatic shots stunning, and the method by which these shots the ends of a pole on a tripod and turning The way the music continues to dynamically--adds anticipation to the sequence. does the viewer's, reaching a fever pitch as the it almost becomes unbearable. Then, inevitably, dead in its tracks. The grave has been found. This is a scene that demands the viewer's full attention and participation; every audio and steal another quote from Tim Lucas: "It's this sequence took an entire generation and changed them for the rest of their lives: not to be taught so much about operatic beauty." Morricone's most famous themes, beloved tracks in cinematic history. any movie--yet, bizarrely, it's not even more than 15 minutes left. Leone still has to try and maintain or even increase the quality So, as Tuco desperately searches for the money, the scene, now wearing his signature poncho two films. In the eyes of the viewer (or, at he is elevated to almost mythical status: he is no Before long, Angel Eyes--the talented is revealed to be empty, upon which the Here, we see more of Leone's carefully triangular compositions. According to Christopher three human figures giving a sense of perspective backdrops with which to do so. In this, Leone who similarly crafted triangulation through This triangular perspective carries into the the script this way. And if you want proof of absolute entertainment maximum, look no further "The three in a triangle in the desolation of stones and the grass. A long act of tension." a five-minute sequence, around half taking places at their points within the circle. geometry recurs in the form of this circle, an echo of a motif established at the beginning circular stone floor and a circular spinning "It geometrizes the relationship among the reckoning ... it comments ironically on the whole life itself. Those countless concentric circles a big empty circle, a zero--the only answer to soldiers. No name on the grave, no name on don't talk'--an audience of crosses, still and Leone wanted 10,000 graves to be built for the depth of the horror of war; while he only got presenting a perfect, macabre arena Three-way standoffs aren't really thematically has to be an effective balance of character if there is a trio of leading characters, one final showdown to be between the good and the For a Few Dollars More, has Eastwood's But this film is called The Good, the Bad and has to be between all three. A triangle. child for the Mexican standoff--it establishes We've spent the last two-and-a-half hours specifically their non-ending quest to get the Blondie's moral high ground and intelligence, and Angel Eyes's cold ruthlessness and greed. their ability to stop at nothing to achieve their to the final standoff, since we know none of the plot dynamics even clearer. The entire film and morality--a final standoff to the death is Leone thought as much too--he found the sequence invented a word for it: triello, a play on considered this a sort of ballet, "a dance of like any good ballet, it has a piece of titled "The Trio", by Ennio Morricone--once It begins subdued, with light woodwinds Then, as Blondie places down the rock on which grave, the final standoff really begins, heralded played by the talented Bruno Battisti D'Amario. in a Spanish dance known for its drama and as a sort of dance, further illustrated in the with dancing. It's a dance of death, in which each manoeuvres into it, and anticipates the movements it's Leone and Morricone working in perfect and giving them deeper meaning. And, like the From here, the song continues to build, This style of in the United States around the time the film century setting, which really shows Morricone's the present, musically. Some have compared this considering the context of its usage. Tim Lucas bugle call indicating that the battle was meanwhile, felt the mariachi was like "the The music continues building, with syncopated shot. And then, just as everybody is in place Crows caw. Men stare. And the quiet tune of a Because, just as this showdown is a trio, appropriately, referencing the mariachi glockenspiel pocket watch theme from For a Few may not be connected, this truly is the As we hear a slight reprise of the music, we gunfire, perhaps, hinting at the conclusion that Leone gets closer to our trio: from medium long to medium close-ups, to close-ups, of faces, of the music, or perhaps simply by his own desire to its full intensity. In the quieter moments of the timpani teases the return of the music to its the characters, with beautiful music to accompany in tempo--but the intensity with which the song And Morricone knows it. an increase in pitch, an increase in volume--and and the trumpet to take us home. And as the music gets more intense, so too does the cinematography, and so too does the five-second shots become two seconds, become being only five frames. The editing becomes in classic Leone style, none of this feels The entirety of this film, according to Leone's can be read in these extreme close-ups: Tuco, naive"; Angel Eyes, "the eyes of a robot, cold, a guardian angel, assured, intelligent, amused". to real-time, that it's "time stretched, And it ends in a purely cinematic way. sure Tuco's gun was empty. This was never the bad, and the ugly. It was simply a duel The standoff sequence alone is certainly Leone's even one of the most influential scenes in cinema the 1960s, the sequence was being taught as has inspired countless directors, many of whom "movie brats" like Martin Scorsese, John plus other directors of this era and far Joe Dante, John Carpenter, Baz Luhrmann, Robert who has managed to reference and pay homage to 50 years after The Good, the Bad and the Ugly The influence of this scene alone cannot visually and audibly, is overwhelming. piece of filmmaking". Neither