Wake up, everyone! It's snowing! And Santa's here! With hot chocolate! It's a December miracle! Who wants Frostbite? No one? Fine. But how about some great winter levels? I could go for some of those. I always thought a level theme like a snow level into almost few customizations, you could make something matter what type of game it is. I'm starting a series where we go over common levels from familiar components. And since it's winter, first up is Winter Sometimes it's ice. Sometimes it's snow. Sometimes it's a non-denominational Winter level theme. Come inside, warm up by the monitor, and let's But take off your shoes first. Oof, those are kinda rough. You need to up your shoe game. Might I recommend... some Vessis? They're waterproof! And, like, really good shoes besides. They're made from DYMA-TEX, a dual-climate the summer, warm when it's cold, and dry They're lighter than clunky boots and more I'm wearing them right now as my daily shoe, do for real keep the snow and rain out. There's always a ton of snow on the ground a walk, I don't have to worry about it, And they look better than my old shoes. Check out their Holiday Sale at vessi.com/designdoc. Get the style and size you want now before If you missed the sale, you can use code DESIGNDOC Vessi is sponsoring this episode, but I wish Go get some good shoes for the holidays, for Link in the description. So, winter levels. There are a bunch of common flavors. Ice lakes and frozen tundra. Snowy mountains and arctic woods. Ski resorts and Christmas towns. Winter levels have a style of their own that's You know what's weird about winter levels, It's rare to see one show up as the 'default' A player's first experience with a game Unless we're talking about a game where to a character and the game world is rarely Oh, sure, there are a lot of games that start Red Dead Redemption 2. Borderlands 2. God of War Ragnarok. Crash... 2. Pikmin... 2. Uncharted... ... 2. I think you see the asterisk. There's a good reason, though. Winter levels can be about more than just Winter levels tend to mess around with the Slippery platforms, reduced visibility, cold packaged with a sampler pack of options to Games where a chunk of the audience already to be, like in, say, a sequel, seem to have right out of the gate. Plus, a snowscape is a really easy way to start of a sequel, even if you don't want Lots of those sequels start off with a snow The floor isn't ice. You can probably see everything on the map The winter is just set dressing - the game Yet. But aesthetics-only winter levels are a small They could be so much more. Winter levels have a zillion options to tie The variety of options also lets designers the kinds of mechanics that those genres find Like in platformers. Platformers are about precision and physics. Jumping and running. Winter levels in platformers are an excuse Slippery platforms change how you can run How precise you have to be to jump on whatever Icy physics is a tried-and-true way of ratcheting gotten used to how the game controls. Most of the time, icy platforms just have for longer. Once you can't stop on a dime or accelerate rethink how you move. It works in 3D as well as it does in 2D. Maneuvering around this bully on top of an forces you to think carefully about momentum water. In a physics-based marble game like Marble enough speed so that you can use that momentum You also have to account for the inability If you do things just right, you can often A rare version of platformer ice physics shows Once you hit ice, you just have no control You can jump but you keep moving forward until you grab onto Every game is a little different in exactly way to mitigate the effect, like by wearing What feels slippery enough to be fun but not will take some trial and error. One of my favorite winter levels doesn't Allegro Presto from the original Rayman is on a musical staff and avoiding sharp notes. It's not at all themed around winter, but Most of the rest of the game is platforming and other types of ground with normal physics, You can run, build up speed, and fling yourself really get to do in any other level in the Allegro Presto's icy-but-not-wintry design can make a level stand out from the rest. If you want to see what could be the most for a platformer, check out Donkey Kong Country: It's the sequel to Donkey Kong Country Returns, Donkey Kong Country games. In the first one, there were a ton of different canyons, mines, factories, ruins, and volcanoes. But no ice levels. Weird. The devs took note, and for the sequel, EVERYTHING The island is invaded by frost vikings and When you finally return, the island has been This last world's main gimmick isn't JUST Each area is a location from the previous Ice jungles, ice beaches, ice factories, and There are a ton of easter eggs, too, where will show up in the background. The level design in Tropical Freeze is more though. Each old stage gets transformed with the ice The frozen jungles have much more unstable The beaches full of wrecked ships become a The cliffsides are now dealing with perpetual All of the dangerous machinery from the factory The fusion of old themes makes every stage like part of the same world. It's an incredibly clever way to, at the villains and to turn a once-familiar location final world. Ice works in more than just platformers, though. Any action game that relies on precise movement floor. Overcooked is a chaotic cooking game where to station to get your food made on time. It's very fast-paced and intentionally gives to comfortably do what you're being asked You're bumping into each other as it is, of the kitchens, it's completely nuts. Now, Overcooked plays into the chaos for laughs than frustrating. But you could easily imagine this becoming game. Or a more serious, higher stakes... whole Like fighting games. Very serious. Not the place for ice floors. If winter is just a backdrop in a fighting Winter backdrops show up in tons of places, enough to not mess with the mechanics, even Fighting games are nothing but precision, Ice floors are the opposite of all those things. Doesn't work. You ever see an ice floor in a fighting game? Probably not. Well, maybe one. Soul Calibur 2. Ivy's Egyptian Crypt stage has an ice variation In Weapon Master mode, which is a mix of story-ish some of the fights happen on ice floors that easily. It's miserable to play on. You can picture it in your mind, it's that As a one-off gimmick though, not a big deal. Driving games are all about precision, too, Probably because there's an extra dose of Forza Horizon 4 has you spending plenty of physics that the track change provides gives to the setting. Mario Kart isn't as realistic as Forza, They're usually designed with wider turns, eh, don't worry about it. Worry about the snowmen. Snow-based vehicle segments in other types the gameplay loop for a bit. Half of all the Sonic games have you sledding or tricking off an icy halfpipe. They give an excuse for some speedy antics, And, of course, dedicated snowboarding games from the ground up for their physics and controls Now, precise, physics-based controls aren't Strategy games are about reacting to seeing dudez. It's a genre about information and logistics. They're about choosing when and where to A winter level in an RTS might not use ice problems you get in a blizzard. The fog of war is already a concept in plenty thematic excuse to tinker with how exactly In Fire Emblem, a snowy tile won't slow a wrench into your plans. In The Binding Blade, a blizzard reduces your Fire Emblem has permadeath, so surprise fights In other games, snow gives a penalty to movement, of the game is about moving units around to In The Blazing Blade, a snowstorm can come for any unit that isn't inside a building. In Advance Wars, you will sometimes be fighting wintery-themed place. The COs all match that theme, some more than Each CO has unique powers that tie to their Olaf's units get to move around normally big enough bonus for that to count as his Shooters can also use a winter stage as a It screws around with how you play a shooter at. Star Fox Assault's 4th mission takes place a harsh blizzard. Your first goal is to infiltrate a climate The station is blocked off by a barrier, and generators by yourself on foot, or in the You're constantly dealing with low visibility It makes the open plains and cliffsides you're they would be otherwise. Besides visibility issues, shooters are also Gaining and losing ammo is a major consideration uses its icy setting to give a thematic reason Lost Planet takes place on E.D.N. III, an ice world full of spooky scary monsters. The game's economy revolves around thermal and need to spend to run vehicles, use the It's not that hard to keep on top of it, you constantly on the lookout for more sources So what about RPGs? They aren't about precision platforming at a high level. Movement is just going place to place, usually. Fighting is done through menus or through There's a lot of talking. Winter areas in RPGs often take another path. People come to RPGs to be taken to a strange To see fun interactions between memorable To hear a story. Winter has been used symbolically in literature same. An RPG that makes you fight through a snowy conditions of the season. The desolation of the frozen land. The hostility to life. The isolation. Mario 64 doesn't really get into the philosophical does, for Cool, Cool The Throat of the World. Skyrim isn't lacking for ice areas, but than most. There's an impassable blizzard guarding But once you've learned how to yell politely, Paarthurnax is meditating at the top, and He's gonna teach you some stuff you'll The blizzard on the Throat of the World is it makes narrative sense. If you want winter to be less of a complete with, look at Breath of the Wild. It's a game that makes use of a temperature will affect every part of the game. Your movement is slower. Icy enemies freeze you on touch. Falling into water is a fast track to hypothermia. If you're not equipped to deal with it, It's very dangerous in the early game. One of the most difficult parts of the tutorial the shrine at the top, whose only trick is You can't just brave the cold and tank your Like the rest of the challenges the game throws You could brute force it and eat something don't know what you're doing. You could find a heat source to carry, like Though that torch takes one of your hands Better not fight anything along the way. You could cook something with a spicy pepper If you look in the old man's diary in his can make. Or if you show him how well you can cook, The temperature mechanics in Breath of the that pushes the player to do some creative the open-ended nature of the rest of the game. Winter doesn't have to be so bleak, though. For a lot of people, winter is a season of About surrounding yourself with family and Coziness. Sitting next to a warm fire and watching your Winter towns can represent sanctuaries from to have sanctuaries anyway. Why not theme one like this? Snowdin is a town in Undertale that's kinda The whole town is a big long break between The hotel, shop, library, and restaurant are beats at you, and some new people to meet. Of course, if you so choose, you can decide on you. Winter weather can impact gameplay in turn-based In Pokemon Platinum, the snowy route 216 can There are patches of deep snow that make running will begin with hail weather conditions that It's not much different mechanically than location. Ice-themed puzzles fit in everywhere. Lots of snow dungeons in adventure games and for a bit. You've got two main flavors: one where you're block. Both involve getting through an area with or something by traveling in straight lines. The moment you pick a direction, you aren't ground. It's a solid puzzle. There's not much else to talk about. It's just there to make you think a few It's not a bad design by any stretch, but I have to mention it. Zelda, Final Fantasy, CrossCode, Pokemon, Edition, Etrian Odyssey, Paper Mario, Chip's Okamiden, Golden Sun, Ittle Dew. It's everywhere. You know I left out a couple great winter Head to the comments, and let's talk about and inventive ice levels and mechanics that Winter levels might seem similar on the surface and you can mix and match components to create *chill vibes outro from Metroid Prime*