Vsauce! Kevin here, with a game so complex an entire 5-day course on strategic thinking. This is it? That's it? What is this? Welcome to the L-Game. Developed by Edward designed to be the simplest possible game to find not just any solution, but the best Here's how it works... The L Game only has a handful of pieces, a it's deliberately indeterminate, meaning play forever with no winner. And there's Let's look at the board: it's just a 4x4 piece that takes up 4 total spaces. There -- that can be moved by either player. And the center and putting the neutral pennies So get ready to L. Each player is required to move their L piece picking it up and moving it, flipping it, as it cleanly occupies 4 squares. So like this. You can't do that. That doesn't work. it doesn't overlap with the other L piece After that move, the player can choose to -- or not. It's totally up to you whether move the neutral piece before you move your The only object of the game is to make it If they can't move, then you win. Like if our pieces were in this position, here and I win. Your L is locked in, you can't over. It seems so easy! So... how can this game possibly take 5 days Consider the following board position, which Course in Thinking" -- which is actually of them. I'll be Player 1, pink, and you'll moves here... uhh let me show ya. It's not Wrong. Choosing a legal move is easy. Choosing what's likely to happen after I make my And what kind of board position will you put or will you make a mistake that gives me an consider to make the best move, what do you It seems impossible to know -- and that difficulty You can employ a few basic strategies to survive in the corner of a board using your L and other neutral piece to eliminate your opponent's grid as two halves and lock your opponent Those strategies are pretty good, but they're far from perfect. Let's go back to my earlier scenario. Given my three possible for each... counters A and B both result in a loss for me because there's just nowhere neutral spot can only be moved after a player possible move -- because I'm not locked in, is whether I can see this coming in advance Alright. Got it, 3 moves, think ahead. No But what if we have this situation... this being is the best. That's 1 out of 195. Awesome. Given the confines of the board, there are 2,296 board states altogether. De Bono teaches L-Game by mentally ranking a move in one of on the next move; weak, which leads you into nothing for either player; and strong, which there are 65 possible moves: 22 fatal, 17 Can you consider all those possibilities and the line? Perfect play entails collecting the best choice based on those results... mind obsessed with tetrominoes. Like, everyone. Modern humans love tetrominoes, which are edge to edge. There are 5 "free" tetrominoes, recognize from Tetris: the L, square, Z, Line of the L and the Z. They can be shifted, rotated, like in this 5x8 grid], which is one of 99,352 Or this 4x10 rectangle, which can be formed Minecraft, Tetris was the #1-selling game with geometry puzzles and considering the ahead. Okay, let's go back to L. On Day 3 of training, de Bono says that a lose and the positions that made the other eventually learn to avoid the bad spots and matters, and it trains us to think... but a lot of games along the way. You need strategic And if you want to play it yourself I put the game. It'll show you how many possible you run simulation after simulation to see is. To make sense of the impossibility of calculating creating a set of several guiding principles keeping a neutral piece adjacent to your L you can. There aren't any magic answers; strategic principles informed by your experience you to avoid playing 10 million L-Games or more you play, and the better your mental more accurate your guiding strategic principles 15 years after de Bono's book came out, will guarantee a player at least an indefinite their opponent makes a mistake. If you can of the four central squares in the grid, OR neutral piece occupies any of the squares Beyond that, it's up to you to use your In an academic mathematical game, you could and ranking their utility. But in real life from the other player just like you're sitting forever. You've got to move, and the player is going to win. Which is what we all do every day in our own in our never-ending course on strategic thinking. We don't rotate L's on a board, but we in the present to give ourselves the best life-boards into smaller, more manageable on what we've learned and what we've come to give us the optimal chance... To avoid L's and manifest W's. And as always, thanks for watching.