Majora's Mask 3D was one of the most requested Nintendo for years until the game's release. But among that anticipation there was also Nintendo wouldn't remake the game without its character... A concern that was realized in the final game. Because a lot of these changes went unnoticed, video, beginning with a brief history of where Being the first polygonal 3D game in the series, cycle. When it was finished, the last thing Nintendo that work in the garbage, so they began discussing Shigeru Miyamoto wanted to rearrange the dungeons Aonuma thought the original dungeons were should just create a new game instead. The game should have been a disaster. Nintendo was rushing, shamelessly reusing pad out a limited amount of content. But instead, Nintendo tapped into a bizarre, the ideas that were flowing out of it they to. The result is a game where you watch cartoon they're going to die, where Eiji Aonuma's pure coincidence, where TINGLE. Nintendo never would have made such a bizarre be fair to say that Majora's Mask was great It was great specifically because of it. But it's easy to understand how hard this In interviews he revealed that he didn't want he hoped fans could just forget it even happened. His attitude towards the original seems to which makes it very risky to go back and try understand what the appeal of their work is, it, meddle with things that didn't need to CGI dance sequences. Only a visionary can pull this kind of thing landing. So let's look at some of these changes and Nintendo's design process is to start with and then build the actual game world. In that sense, you could say that the world since it's been designed as a sort of playground In the original, these lily pads were sized acceleration. This is a problem because MM3D changes these with a laggy startup. It's subtle, but enough to break Link's relationship Pads that would have been simple to reach edge, forcing players to stop and reposition If the player falls in the water while leaving they can't even reach the first pad or move The player will have to awkwardly run along the broken game design and escape. Spin hopping was also broken by this change. In the original, players could dramatically carrying all that momentum with them. It was one of those things that just felt in how they got around the swamp. In the remake, Link's momentum is halted as To see the impact this has had on the Deku, big octo wins! By the time 64 Link finished, 3D Link was a small difference. You can imagine how much more tedious it would skulltulla house. Which raises the question of why- why take break it like this? I can only imagine Aonuma was replaying the &quot;this is bad and needs to be fixed.&quot; Someone who isn't confident in their work the work itself, whereas a player might run I should be more careful.&quot; And that summarizes a lot of the changes in curve or skill to develop, the remake removes with the zora swimming. In most games, underwater segments slow down Link had never been as fast or agile as he turns, diving out of the water like a dolphin, An inexperienced player may end up ramming players will learn when to dog paddle, or into things. It's entirely possible to do if you invest master a mechanic like this. Rather than asking players to do this, Majora's with... This... slow, human swimming... that can't can't do any cool shit. The bay was designed around zora swimming, only be reached by dolphin jumping in the it becomes clear how empty and boring the It wasn't the environment itself but the action and fun, and now that action is gone- or at Majora's Mask 3D allows using zora swimming that players can no longer use it to travel Even tapping the R button to break barriers added to the bay, there are new problems to For one, Shiro, the invisible soldier has don't have magic, you're not seeing him. The game only allows zora swimming to be used provided, and even here the gameplay is compromised the pots and by the annoyance of the magic But there's another problem with the zora how to use it? One of the most basic ideas in game design step by step, giving them a chance to experiment segment at them it won't feel unfair or cheap. In the original game, players wouldn't be to see what the mask could do. I spent half an hour swimming just for the how the mechanic worked. In MM3D, players will enter the water, see any practice, and that will be it. If they try the fast swimming, they'll say using it.&quot; This is a problem because the game has added using zora swimming with strict timing. Is it fair to ask players to master a mechanic game? Which brings me to my next point... In the Iwata Asks for Ocarina of Time, the to burn webs in the Deku tree a certain way. They made sure to correct the issue so that always remembered, and for some reason this Mask 3D. Take the swimming for instance- why not Tap This would free the player's thumb up to move it's godawful in the water temple (the swimming When you want to stop, just tap A again. To zora swim, hold the A button down, just And that's just one example of how to keep change into a good one. All Nintendo had to do was just not throw The save system is another example. The original was a barrier to some players can handle, but did they have to remove the It's still the definitive way to play- you you feel like at that moment. If you're bored of the main quest, you can Whatever you choose, you have to plan your as possible. Every play session is like a speed run, requiring are perfectly timed to end when the player Finally being able to rest and lock in all you've accomplished a huge amount, and that through in the remake when you can save every So how about this? Keep the prompt to save when playing the song and play the original way. Or, add an N64 or hero mode option at the Starfox 64 3D did something like this, and using the original source code like this game Then you have Odolwa. In the original game, there was no clear pattern at your disposal to a good effect against because he would rapidly cycle through attacks It was a dynamic, unpredictable fight with But in MM3D, your attacks are ignored, even The game has a new way to fight him, and it's it or not. You burrow into a deku flower, pop out and As soon as it's done, you can burrow in and The fight never gets good- he doesn't get He'll still stand around like a moron waiting This is one of the most pathetic bosses in this new attack- it's because they took the If you notice, there's a trend in these changes. In the original game you saved by playing could possibly have a system like this? But in the remake, you save by walking up the Zelda series and out. Th original game had mechanics like the zora the series, while the remake uses the mechanics The original bosses didn't rely on rigid patterns Almost every change has made MM less unique, have only appeared once in gaming history, its legacy to erase them from existence in This is a big one. Fans were so concerned that Nintendo would his way to clarify that they weren't going But this wasn't exactly true... Take the Keeta fight for example. The original premise of this battle was that of enemies, and with perfectly executed attacks about here on the map. It was a stiff challenge, but one that could players would find a number of ways to gain And isn't that what video games are about? Overcoming challenges through resourcefulness See if you can spot the change MM3D made to Keeta can now be caught before the very first Even without using any items, the fight is The battle has been nerfed to the point that through a series of enemies- doesn't even only example of this in the game. These platforms that used to move back and Not until you've landed on them, which misses moving platform. It's hard to land on one. This sequence already would have been easier where Link will land as well as the fact that than before. Isn't that enough? Removing the challenge of a segment also removes At this point, why not just have a bridge Would it even make a difference? Then there are the bombers. In the original, they stayed put until you But in the remake, they're far more aggressive. They now chase Link all over town, never stopping point where you can't even view certain cutscenes I mean, look at this shit. &quot;I hear you can score a ton of rupees if you I never seem to be that lucky, though...&quot; &quot;Apparently the swordsman's school gives out of the blade or whatever, you should try for &quot;You've been playing an awfully long time, As far as the hints that they give you go, (and you'll get a heart piece).&quot; In the original, players were expected to their items to use to unravel the clues one it. The ice arrows change is an insult to the The item was originally given to players with And that was the fun- creating a path to where was really satisfying. In the remake, sparkling points of light guide of the player. But it goes beyond that- the player can only In addition to being dumb, this also gives I remember searching this room for a stray the path to the opening. Again, it was a problem solving process. In the remake, the sparkling lights will lead know what they're looking for yet. The change gets even weirder when you consider but doesn't sparkle, meaning new players probably shame, since they can actually be helpful I get that the original game was too hard from orbit, ensuring that no one would be be worth playing. Obviously, not every change in the remake There were a lot of great ideas for improving than others. The new bombers notebook keeps track of more of alarms, which is great. The problem is that it now pauses the game to any character with any purpose whatsoever. It's exactly what players hated about TP and picked up an item. In comparison, the original game just played you were on the right track, then get out The developers turned that rewarding moment The boss of great bay has a new underwater idea. Until you realize that it consists of awkwardly swarmed by pestering, magic draining fish. These mines explode on contact and are as and when you find one that he hasn't blown when you actually want him to. It leads to a fight that drags on far longer the time to waste. Twinmold is a worse example of the same thing. The original fight was admittedly just an able to just wail on the boss felt like a MM3D has the brilliant idea of withholding leading to a fight where you engage one half the other. It's intense, well designed, and much more game should be. Then you get the giant's mask and it all goes Instead of just resuming the fight as it had pile of lead with a hitbox about 2cm in front The object of the fight is to throw boulders like a glacier to perform a stiff wrestling (Get the fucking thing- I'm pushing the button!) After using up all the boulders, the fight the new phase has long since run its course, into aimless punches as twinmold flies by. And if you happen to get scraped on the way The fight drags on for so long and with such to see if I had been doing it wrong, and it that question. All Nintendo had to do was just leave giant's fight would have been a clear improvement with the original fun. But somehow, the boss that had four years the one rushed out in one year. Even easy wins like the audio and visuals Take a listen to the astral observatory in The soundtrack is often muffled and weak, of the soundtrack in particular is smeared The new higher poly geometry is great, but like this one, where the hardest fairy to a grab-able ledge being rendered ungrab-able. The only reliable way to get this fairy now down from the very top of the tower. Enjoy. It would be foolish to say that the game is maybe a little too gorgeous. The stock pot inn used to have warped floors, and what looks like spatters of- it's shit- The remake sanitizes these details and makes The game also has the same over-brightening that would envelope the player to a really The moon's face used to be a confusing mix was being expressed by this thing at once. The new face is just angry, to the point of on angle- alright, alright, I get it. But before wrapping this up, I want to talk Everyone agrees that OoT's water temple was 3D version fixed this by streamlining the MM had an equivalent sore spot in the stone This segment required changing into different and over again, once for each switch, then and fight your way to the next level, where It pushed the inventory system beyond its pace where you spend more time pausing, swapping than actually playing. Which makes it so baffling that Nintendo, next to nothing to improve it. Ideally, they would have added some kind of emptiness the first time, allowing copies Failing that, they could have done what WWHD out after the first play. The player will hear the elegy of emptiness and the song has to be used even more inside Just cutting those repeats would have gone WWHD also made great use of the Dpad when to free up the mappable buttons. The 3DS just happens to have 3 unused directions masks there, so that they never need to take The fact that Nintendo didn't fix this segment- makes me feel like we're on entirely different takeaway of all this. Obviously, MM3D is not a good remake to me. But it wasn't made for fans like me- it was and apparently there were a number of them In that sense, the game was a success- I noticed &quot;I couldn't play the original, but I can play mean this is a good remake. The best remakes don't cave in to critics They double down on the original, celebrate of the game. This game could have pleased old and new players had cared enough about the original to see Most people seem to prefer Majora's Mask 3D doesn't mean it's better- not when it leaves a broken state. Hopefully, when Nintendo inevitably ports some of these changes. Until then, the original will continue to unique, and definitive way to play this weird,