in this video we're going to talk about the a company called Agiga. They want to improve and visually impaired and just make Hello hello everybody! This is Carrie on of The Epic Ally podcast where we deep dive In past episodes and past videos we've discussed ARx Vision, the Meta glasses -- review is so make sure you're subscribed -- but the Echo of the benefits of the Meta glasses -- looking a lot of other functionality like just being the audio that way, but it also has a button or perform OCR. And yes -- it can perform to have all the power of AI and definitely a functionality that we in the blind / low I'll be sharing an interview with the CEO and it much further. I think that the echo most potential of all the wearables that I've sponsored -- however, it is supported by and Patreon. But a big special thank Moley and Munugreh, Dima and Technically Without further ado, let's and I will meet you on the other Carrie: and welcome to the podcast. Could Xiaoran: Hey uh my name Xiaoran. I'm CEO of Agiga. Huasong: hello Carrie um this Carrie: Thanks for introducing yourself actually very excited about uh what Tell us about Agiga and tell us about Xiaoran: sure uh so we're making these uh It actually uh can articulate the visual when you wear it -- as if there's someone right though you don't have the vision, but you to have. And it looks like a normal pair of Huasong: in addition, we try to bring the So scene description -- as Xiaoran the ability to call a volunteer or agent. That's open platform so we'd be able to run some of Other than the appearance which we'd like to make the pricing right. So Carrie: awesome! Could you tell it looks like and maybe describe the Xiaoran: I wonder if it's easier if we have a like a pair of normal sunglasses. Of course it what's around and it has a technology called tiny speakers on the legs of the glasses and the can clearly hear the sound out of the glasses airports something like that. At the same time it and it has a mic and uh not not one actually it. And so basically it's a voice interaction device. yeah. It actually has two buttons one One of the button is used for taking pictures we call the the magic button -- like we many blond/low vision people. Once you press in front of you, so that just by pushing and you just start hearing this natural Carrie: are you able to ask follow-up questions? Xiaoran: Yes, you could ask Carrie: So you could ask multiple Xiaoran: yes. Carrie: is it able to read full aloud something completely Xiaoran: oh this is a great question. we working on with the community. People say as is instead of just telling oh it's a letter be able to tell me every single word written what's need to do with this letter. Or sometime, the the whole page to be read out line by line. Carrie: how do you activate that uh-- the Huasong: right, so everything we like to make we'd like to support uh the trigger word which this text or the describe this scene uh to Xiaoran did mention earlier that there's a all these-- so one button click would uh start if we realize it's text, Carrie: so it will automatically or -- or do a scene description? Is that right? Huasong: Right. So by default it's enough that's it's text, we're going Carrie: does this work with Xiaoran: yeah, as Huasong mentioned, it and uh this is another demand we heard their favorite app on the glasses like the things we already integrated or are in Carrie: are you able to use it have to have a companion app for the Echo Vision? Xiaoran: Yeah basically -- um like -- you'll this up after you're receiving the glass. One is direct connect to the home your phone cellular when you Carrie: so you could do do right? As long as you have some kind can do it independently or directly Xiaoran: Yes, it can connect but it can also connect through your phone. Carrie: so let's say you're connected to your Bluetooth on your phone. Are you still able to use Huasong: for a scenario that the phone is not the music from the phone to the glasses, but the is internet connection this usually a home Wi-Fi Carrie: so what are you able to do with the Huasong: right now we have integrated a few Google Lookout. We are still collecting feedback functionalities around real time information to get additional feedback and integrate more and some of these specific requests as the comes first which one comes next. But Carrie: okay and so through the companion app, you're able to um connect these different there anything else on the app? Like are the AI or upload or download your the Xiaoran: yes that's a very good question. So interaction with the AI and full control of the questions uh they talk to the AI -- all the review that on their phone. If you want they want How did the AI answer about my question on this time? And they are able to uh go back and find comfortable with. Oh, I don't want to be able record, they can just like delete this. We do asked specifically for the customer and is very important uh I-- I don't think without being acknowledged. Carrie: That's good to hear. Now I want to So when you connect it to your phone um are Xiaoran: oh yeah. So basically, the glasses itself has microphone and the speakers headphones. After setup, whatever on glasses. So basically you don't have Carrie: Okay so now a few questions to know the camera quality as the battery and how it charges Xiaoran: Yeah, we have a 13 megapixel camera which video about the battery. The target battery if you use video recording or streaming-- that need to charge it more frequently compared with questions periodically or taking pictures. to use and the battery can last for longer. As uh which has 3,000 mwatt battery capacity and it case use a USBC cable to connect to the power Carrie: definitely- I love USBC! What lenses guessing tinted... Are there clear? Can Xiaoran: we call our product smart glasses, but the lenses that can go to normal uh glasses can the option to choose from clear lenses, tinted uh like-- we still uh deciding what colors to was start doing this uh pre-order program to of the product giving us feedback so that we can Huasong: So one area that we'd like to hear clip on sunglass capability? We were heard that not fast enough or not uh transitioning at not shining on it. So that's why for example we Carrie: I would definitely like that, but from everybody. How do you see Echo Vision in Xiaoran: when I see the smile on your face, I but actually it's not that hard question. As I long time. We have about like 200 people in our home and we work with them. We provide services and I we heard so much request from the community meta has like their meta AI on the Rayban smart and also we give the Rayban glasses to the blind not the ultimate device that blind people want our community is requesting for more. People than just a very high level, superficial, one able to read text. Like read letters or read the glasses. Doesn't have to ask a question to do this really like secretly-- I'm not sure they want to do this without much awareness from really want and that's how we define our products Huasong: yeah, so we provide all of these example the model, the computer AI model that but we make some default choices. The apps partners and make use of existing capabilities So um when there is a need for OCR for best uh app out there that can do OCR for this from this community and try to make the glasses Carrie: I really like what Xiaoran was talking where I use the meta Ray bans and I'm like this' and first, it it can take a long time to if you are in a place where like-- a mall over again, but I've been there where people very confused so- I-- I really like having just Xiaoran: I think the reason why is our product community community and for Meta-- because s really tailor all the details for this small Carrie: So that is actually a perfect segue this product and what's the back story? Xiaoran: oh wow! I can talk So maybe let me uh start a little bit about my work a long time in the industry before doing in building intelligent devices. The the 1126. So it it's a subsidiary of Amazon. It's So basically this R&amp;D Center for Amazon for all much Innovation there. I have done so much cool an agumented reality product and I have done smart refrigerators, and smart -- so many knows is Amazon Alexa- the echo devices. being able to innovate and produce-- shape this we actually start working on it at at the and early stage of our product, we involved reason why we do that is like Huasong and I-- we product is a great product for the community. in-- we work with lots of people. They give us the features. I think this is very important Huasong: so maybe it's a good timing to mention That means Artificial General Intelligence and the latest technology to everyone and we'd like That's where we see our background, experience, really we can make contribution to is to bring the low vision and blind community-- to the Blind and the glasses shape is a natural shape that really Xiaoran: Yeah, thank you for bring this up trying to like give everyone the access to it's often the time-- okay the company first and then they may be shed the light I don't think that's the right thing to do for first class seat in using the latest technology. really revolutionize how the blind/low using this technology much easier. It gives much this is what the blind/low vision people really the past and when we have this latest technology Carrie: And when and where is Echo Huasong: Yeah, thank you Carrie. That's our pre-order now. So if you go to you can already start ordering it. This is is $449 before our pre-order ends. But again, actual shipping date is Q2 next year. Before we'd likely come back to you and work with form factor - the lenses for example and if you pre-order we have a list of added Carrie: so there's a $99 deposit Xiaoran: Right. Carrie: And... Xiaoran: You pay $99 now and when the that we'll ask you to make the rest of receiving that money we'll start shipping the Carrie: And after pre-orders, Xiaoran: After preorder, the price will go Carrie: Okay. Now tell us a little know how much it'll be and what Xiaoran: Yeah. That's a very good question. So to subscription yet. As the technology is evolving six months later, this price, the cost of being running on the cloud will be much more reduced. actually we provide lifetime free subscription need to worry about. Like it save you, like I do pre-order now, you do not have to pay for Huasong: Yeah. So as Xiaoran mentioned, we bring if we really start charging benefit and functionality and easy of useness. software. But if there's really something we outside our company, we have to somehow carry on how to balance the additional value we bring Carrie: Are you saying that if we if necessarily need to pay the subscription Huasong: Yes the functionalities that will OCR, calling volunteer and agent for help, agent that comes from Aira, people still need to that we provide, we don't charge any subscription charges for subscription from Agiga, it will conversation capability. It could be some software of the glasses. Those are the additional bring you together with the glasses. But we don't Carrie: Okay. That's good to know that optional and would add more benefit. But it's not something you have to pay to get the basic Xiaoran: Yeah I think we really want to on the glasses and on the phone so that it's try to make the glass as useful as possible Carrie: A question I've been asking everybody on assisted technology being so expensive. And led to the decision to price it at $449 a lot of other technology out there that Xiaoran: This is a very great question. It's my observation in this industry. It might be opinion on this. When I first start looking at the how expensive they are. Because myself, I had in doing AI. And I, I am like I'm me the founding which is only $25. So it's uh so such a surprise can only tell you the time that's $25. That's too product is specially made for this single use little bit pricey. Because overall in the hardware a high volume, the cost of building one single number of devices you build. Say if you build divided by a thousand devices. But if you build a by a million devices. That's $1 per device. price would be. That can explain why some of the because they do not serve lots of customers. And into customers hands. They got to go through say if you if if you buy a band-aid, like hair actual cost of this shampoo, say is actually $2. Like each person takes a chunk of it, the store maybe there are more than one layer distributors. How we do it differently is first, right now We list a product on our website. Right now remove all the middle man. That can reduce the the team's experience in building things, we have the best parts with the most affordable price. charge like a ton to build like a small quantity be able to build a device, sell the device at an heard from lots of people is, oh the the stuff are at some shows, they they they tried our stuff and oh can you tell me how much it is. Is it over it's less than a thousand. Then I saw how excited looking forward to that make it affordable for of technology. I don't think like you I I build people use it is good enough. I want all the blind are able to run revolutionize their Carrie: That's a really great answer. Especially for the distributors and the here's a bit of an easier question. What do you Xiaoran: Ah this is a great question. I for Echo Vision is the ultimate assistant for say if you have a family member, a trustful family stay with you whenever your goes they how she what's around. trying to help with everything. like... to all the things. I think that's ultimate assistant for you. And beyond what I just I know people some people they may have this voice blah blah. Oh uh do this, sometime blah blah blah. that record these memos and also allow you to Xiaoran phone number? When am I supposed to go that like be beside what I just talked about and that that's what I see is going to be right. Echo Vision talks back. And voice people. And we firmly believe this should be Carrie: That is very interesting. I actually is that similar to dictation where it? Or can you actually listen to the app or listening to it. Or some some Xiaoran: Yeah so basically this is a new with our community. It's not the voice memo recording and you can listen to it later on. want to make a note. You send it to this voice you can go back to the memo and find Carrie: So it would be stored as more of a Xiaoran: Yes. Carrie: Okay. Xiaoran: Yes. Do you like it better if it's we we want to add it in in the product as a future have a chance to shape it. We like to hear your Carrie: I actually I really like the idea ask the AI the different questions based on would be some way instead of you know recording to trigger audio recordings. Because I know blind or visually impaired that carry, do carry want to um record things that we need to remember, around us and we don't necessarily need the be a separate feature. But I I do like the memory Xiaoran: I see. I see. Wow this great feedback. Huasong: Yeah thanks for the feedback. Xiaoran: But I'm sure other Carie: Yeah. I think I'm not the thank you so much to both of you for joining questions. I will leave information down in the maybe do a demo. And we'll go Huasong: Thank you Carrie. Xiaoran: Sure thank you for having us. Huasong: Thank you. Xiaoran: Glad to be here. There's the interview. All of that sounded really, the Meta glasses and really enjoys how they work with some of the limitations that it has... Like can get it to do it sometimes, but it is not at do that. It doesn't like to describe things like that's just the limitation of the AI. And that's created specifically for the community that it could have a lot of potential. Internally pre-order this and I want this dream of like this uh and integrate into all different apps. Maybe I'm more seasoned. And uh after trying out the excitement that I had with those products I am a little scared. I just feel like this could I being optimistic and hopeful as I am about can't wait to see a demo to see how it actually that I could get it into my hands and really play places. Try to make it read stuff. I think the Meta glasses are cheaper. But if I had to very similar and pay a little extra for a better that the subscription is optional. You get all the but if you want more, then you can subscribe. And brick of a device. And I I like that. I really so tempting. $99 now $300 something later, and you'll get them for free, that sounds super why it very tempting for me. Ultimately I have reality of the product is at the moment. But want to see it. I can't recommend it. But definitely pay attention to and keep an eye on. Huasong they have worked in the industry for the I love how Xiaoran, she helped develop the that amuse me. I think this is an exciting it actually pans out. Let me know what you guys How does it compare to all the other wearables Let me know down in the comments. And let me you do. And once you've gotten them in, I'd I hope you enjoyed this and give it a thumbs up if you want to support this channel, consider the perks is when there's an interview like this, that they want me to ask during the interview. as well. That's it for now and I