Hi guys, thanks for tuning in to another I'm Ian McCollum, and I'm here today at Morphy's with an exceptionally rare and cool piece. This is an MKb-42(H), a <i>Maschinen Karabiner 42</i> This is the original version Now this project actually a lot earlier than It's in '38 that the R&amp;D tasks the Haenel Company with Basically an intermediate calibre This is a concept that has been of this sort of thing in the 30s in Germany. And not just in Germany, the the Americans did, Now the original design brief was that (how typical for German early World they wanted it to be a gas trap design Haenel agrees to that By 1939 they've got the first cartridges, Those are developed by the and at that point the design Hugo Schmeisser is the designer at and it's obvious to him that And they redesign it to use a gas piston, they get the army to agree to And the tilting bolt is actually specifically And you'll see that when we take it At any rate, once the cartridges are By 1941 the first couple of ... Well, let me back up for a second, one of the fundamental characteristics of the <i> was the fact that they were made Germany had limited supplies to use to make the high quality And stamping allows you to use and get very good results as long as you And they recognised that and the intention of this machine carbine But Haenel was set up for milling as So what Schmeisser does with his first couple but the parts are designed to eventually become So 1941 the first prototypes are ready (sadly none And that leads to a contract for And in order to do those, Haenel looks to help translate this milled They find the Merz Werke that has a lot of stamping experience, hasn't They get together and they produce 50 sample guns are ready Along with, by the way, one sample gun but using the same cartridge Walther found out that this was an and developed their own It is far more rare than this so if you're interested in that one I'll link Now ... 50 trial guns are ready in March, ... You get the impression people this is a game-changing sort of rifle. It's a fundamentally better gun, far better than what the German infantry But it's conceptually better than anything So Hitler's going to be there, they are going to test it, And they get out there and he's like, He didn't like the idea of Hitler's main complaints about this concept accurate effective fire out to 1,200 Which is absolutely ludicrous He doesn't like the idea of having an He just doesn't like the thing in general. not heavy submachine guns, sort of. Anyway, the trials are already scheduled, It turns out this isn't as they blame that partly and partly on the fact that it is One of the concerns, this is that's part of the reason is so it can actually be and they were worried So the idea of a cookoff is when you shoot so that when you chamber a cartridge the heat from the chamber that the cartridge spontaneously You can find plenty of videos on YouTube and then sometimes acting The way that you prevent that from so that until you pull the trigger the And this is why most machine guns is to prevent there from ever Well in this case the other downside to an and when you pull the trigger the bolt slams So if you're trying to the gun kind of goes ker-clunk and then fires. This isn't a big deal if you have a but if it's a shoulder rifle or a submachine And they found that in these that were used as comparators were Now this wasn't a trial they weren't doing house clearing But they realised that, OK, cookoff You'd have to fire hundreds of and guys can't even Far more important to develop a closed-bolt firing That's more important, we don't So as early as April of '42 they start Now you'll see this in a minute, the and they had to redesign The way they do this to make is actually by just taking Walther's MKb-42 and And that's why you'll see a this open-bolt version and the Anyway, the closed-bolt But the army knows that the army in Their progress stalled out They are now under heavier by larger and larger groups of Russian troops. They have bolt action rifles and machine And so the army decides, &quot;We are as just like a temporary holdover. Yeah, we know we are But that doesn't matter because we've let's just put it into production, push Even if it's just a few months earlier, In addition, if we start putting it will become possible to answer To learn what are the best And to get information on some like how do we carry the magazines, Do we want 30 round mags Or perhaps would we be because they are shorter? And that information is for this as for a closed-bolt version of the gun. And so the plan is to put and it's slated to go into first full-scale batches Now - spoiler - that wouldn't happen, First, at this point, let me pull this apart Compared to the <i>Sturmgewehr</i> that we are At first glance this looks an awful but the closer you look So right off the bat, let me This would remain the same standard magazine You'll notice this one is marked MKb-42, This holds 30 rounds, 7.92x33mm Kurz. And, yeah, the design they had when they would remain the standard pattern One thing that Germany The designation is engraved here MKb, that's <i>Maschinen Karabiner</i>, Now if we look at the grip, there's There's actually no safety lever on this at all, You can see it's marked &quot;D&quot; on this side And if I push it through I have an &quot;E&quot; on that side Your safety, well there actually And it's actually marked with an &quot;S&quot;. And the idea is just like with a you can pull the bolt handle back, And that of course because the bolt is physically So that's one option, but that does Even if you close the dust cover on this side, There's no way to really fix all these issues, If you notice at the top of the The red indicates ready And we have a hole in the receiver here, and another similar hole right here What this allows me to do is push the handle in, and lock This is actually something that the and you'll see it in some This similarly prevents the gun from is dropping a sear to let the bolt This system also allows you to lock So you can drop the bolt. which means if you drop the bolt it You can then close the You still have this open slot, but at least the front of the action Construction wise, we have a The receiver is stamped, There is a solid milled that has the locking surface and the We have a sheet metal handguard that, yes, And it's presumably probably But that's what you got, The barrel is the one on the bottom, the gas tube Our gas block is here, but the And the front sight block attaches There is a threaded ... they did develop a grenade launcher attachment One of ... Hitler's complaints was that he wanted So the designers kind of jumped at, &quot;Hey, maybe if we make a grenade launcher Didn't work, but they did put that on there. Some of the MKb-42(H)'s have bayonet lugs. This one does, some of them do not. No one ... seems to know But this fits the standard German K98k None of the later <i>Sturmgewehr</i> patterns And then, like the grenade launcher, another So again, the designers kind of jumped at the by developing a way to So ... scope mounts were not on the original And this is just a stamped ... base. They developed a mount to put a 1.5x power but it never really went into production. By the time ... they were in production, it was already known that the gun and so they didn't bother going into full So there are a few out there. In fact my previous video on this, one of But they were never You may notice that the rear sight is relatively and you've got this This is an in-line designed gun, so the barrel lines up back to here This is a very comfortable It's a little on the heavy side, It doesn't climb much because the bore axis And in order to do that, Alright, let's dive into disassembly, So if I push that out, And then the buttstock is going If this looks like H&amp;K a lot of H&amp;K stuff was developed Now the recoil spring is So we'll pull that out But I will mention the recoil spring nests Unlock that, and then I can bring the bolt carrier, Now the spring comes off. So the recoil spring has That sits in this recess in the We have a gas piston out here at the That comes back to a bolt carrier here. This rotates, it's actually threaded in, you can The reason for that is you have to put it into that safety notch. On submachine guns, you are typically and you usually rotate the On this design you've got so instead the gas piston The bolt, as you can see if you this is exactly the ZB 26 system. It's a tilting bolt, so the It's a little hard to see down in there, essentially behind that divot is the So this is going to travel forward like this, it's When it gets all the way to the barrel, but this bolt carrier is under spring pressure As it does so, it is going to tip the bolt down And then you can see the firing pin the end of bolt carrier here which causes it to protrude forward Then of course, while this gas is diverted up into the gas piston. That is going to push the When it gets to this point these which pulls the bolt up out of lock In another element that the fire control group just pivots down. So HK would put a removable pin here, for the <i> But we can open this up and look at the fire control group, Pull the trigger and the sear drops. Now there is a semi-auto So if I pull the trigger you can hear the click and So in semi-auto mode, when the which resets it to require semi-auto. If I flip this over to full-auto does nothing, and the gun is just going This is a really simple system, And that sear is just holding on right here, So when you pull that down There you go, there is a field stripped MKb-42(H). ... It really is a simpler gun although the increased complexity So let's get back to talking Now the closed-bolt version of the MKb, ... the first prototypes are This is supposed to be in production They're having trouble with it, they're some of the standard ... problems that you But they're not ready yet, But they do have the closed-bolt version this one's got some Again, everyone's really excited, like we We'll bring Hitler out, we'll show And Hitler gets out in November of '42 and looks Like crap. OK. Now I have a separate video talking about before he eventually without subterfuge inside I have a separate video on that, I'll It's a little beyond the scope of But the closed-bolt version is clearly better By that point the Walther MKb It was closed-bolt from the beginning, it was less reliable, it was harder to build. So they begin to develop and they do finally get this into Now it's only a small batch at that point, They managed to scale it up, at its height they'll Which sounds like a big number, but that's Production would run from And the first batch of these guns was So it was 2,000 of these guns of the closed-bolt <i>Sturmgewehrs</i>. And they are sent out for troop trials. the combat troops who used this There were a bunch of problems The gun is open bolt, which means ... and they complained about how there's a lot of mud, dirt, water, sand These guns get dirty pretty quickly There were problems with the recoil spring. and the early guns had a fairly Well, you got into water and the stock the spring would get stuck and it They had problems They didn't like the open-bolt firing which There was good feedback that came that allowed improvements In total 11,813 of these were manufactured Full-scale production of the ... closed-bolt <i> And at that point, once those guns get sent out, Ammunition is being provided specifically It's not supposed to be issued to guys with these, if they want to get them back out of the field And ... like it's been improved, And so that essentially is the combat It was the first major development, They are now today exceptionally because not many made, very few of those much less make it onto the US registry. And this one has, there are a number So hopefully you guys enjoyed the video. I did do a video on the MKb-42(H) and I went back and re-watched it and like I need to really improve that video. Hopefully this has been an improvement, and hopefully you guys have