Narrator: Hermes of the most expensive ranging anywhere to half a million dollars. The bags embody - A Birkin bag? - You've heard of it? - Of course. That's a very nice purse. Narrator: The exclusive considered by some to than gold or And the world's is an Hermes that sold for $500,000. So what is it that makes The story of the bag begins Jane Birkin. On a flight from Paris to happened to be seated next of Hermes, Pilot: Flight attendants, Narrator: Jane was carrying a wicker basket and used it for everything When she tried to fit in the overhead the lid came off, spilling the Jane complained that it was impossible to Dumas introduced himself and the pair spent the flight designs on the back of A year later, Jane with the Birkin bag, a spacious yet perfect for everyday use. The Birkin's pockets made and the bag seals to prevent Hermes makes using premium materials like calf skin, alligator skin, and even ostrich skin. Each bag is made Although Birkins are one and sought-after bags weren't all that popular It wasn't until the became one of the Now they're the Victoria Beckham of over 100 Birkins, over $2 million, and entrepreneur to have the world's with over 200 bags. But you can't just walk While there used to nowadays all you can do is hope to be or spend enough to be And if you're to be able to Hermes also places limits a client can This dedication to preserving the exclusivity of the bag has certainly paid off, and access has created a A 2017 study value of Hermes Birkin bags has increased 500% an increase of 14% per year. One of the most from Hermes' which comes in three sizes. Often referred to as the the white Himalaya Birkin white gold hardware and The 35-centimeter model and has sold at record Most recently in 2019, it sold for over Professional sports betting also known as Vegas Dave, made the record-breaking David Oancea: The reason I love breaking records. I broke all the sports to break the I'm all about raising the bar. Also, it's about The only other is by Steve Harvey's wife, so there's only Not even Kim Kardashian bought it for content, so I could take pictures of it, getting Narrator: The sale actually took place over social media. Oancea: Sale was I posted on social a million followers, that This lady hit me She messaged me, said I realized it was She said it would And this is for - Absolutely, most Oancea: We closed this deal really, really fast. I actually do use the bag. Most people think I'm crazy. They put it away and they never I've taken it out twice, as a great piece of content. It's definitely worth offer me a million dollars My asking price is $2 million. If not, I'll just keep Narrator: It's also albino crocodile skin, The costly skin is to emulate of the Himalayan Mason Howell: The high and resale value is because these These artisans to make one they may even before even they're Narrator: Another reason of course is the The total number of Birkin each year is a but it's estimated be around And for the Birkin bags are Online retailer Prive Porter uses Instagram to sell the bags online, and luxury has hundreds of Birkins many of which above the Howell: The Birkin and sometimes It really does depend on the size of the bag, There are so many factors that it could really vary. However, if you do buy a and maybe the retail at you most likely will even if you have worn for $5,000, $6,000. Narrator: Even as resellers and Prive Porter Birkins available than ever, the prices Howell: If you go to get the exact color, Here, we have almost and if that means you have people and our clients Even though that there of these bags, not one So let's say an Etain Birkin we only have one right we may not get so someone's looking for to pay an extra maybe as soon as possible, and all artisan craftsmanship. Not one is the same, Narrator: So if you have an it could be worthwhile Just make sure that you're From Canal Street to websites like eBay, is full of luxury knockoffs, and Birkins are no exception. Back in 2012, Hermes for selling fake products and won $100 That same year, French on an international crime counterfeit Birkin bags. The crime ring reportedly actual Hermes employees. Only two employees but Hermes believed that could have been involved. And despite all their continue to The quality of has also vastly making it difficult to tell whether a bag However, there to spotting a fake Birkin. Howell: The handle If they look too long, then it is The hardware shouldn't be and the feet, another big best things I always should never screw off. The leather itself should feel Narrator: And if the price to be true, it probably is. While many other handbag it looks like the Birkin And the bag has become in a way that many other Despite its popularity, the bag features and is only recognizable who already know what it is. In Birkin, Hermes has that feels inaccessible As for whether the Birkin only time will tell.