What is an SSL handshake? Well, I'm But before you can be initiated into the secret handshake, you need to know what SSL and Socket Layer and is a protocol that encrypts data layer security is essentially a newer version Did you know that SSL actually doesn't exist made back in 1995 and it was depreciated way the name SSL is so catchy and so Busson as the that in typical usage, SSL is actually referring Speaking of protocols and security, let such thing as a cloud. Cloud storage is Nobody is actually sending the photos of your up into a cumulonimbus. It just doesn't servers, serverless servers, or The entire internet is just a bunch to somebody else's computer. So when you are sending data sometimes very personal data, people's computers. And that is very useful. But when you're purchasing something online, you date of birth, and current address Now, call me old-fashioned, but that sounds a offers a few layers of protection by encrypting making it a bit more secure. You is using SSL by looking at the URL. If it's using HTTPS, the S stands for secure how does SSL or TLS actually work? When you and the website server engage in what's called between the two. The security handshake is a and that will vary depending on what type But the main thing that we need to know is that the browser and the server is encrypted what happens in that handshake. The security out a client's hello message to the server. This the operating system, and the encryption The server then receives that client's Hello will choose which type of encryption the server will choose the most powerful and the server can support. This is why you browsers. I'm looking at you It's time to move on. Once that's the server responds to the client. Hello, message includes information about the server will be used. The server also sends its its domain name certificate authority and the The client's browser then checks the server's valid and issued by a trustworthy certificate particular SSL certificate. Side note for SSL certificate and two, because of how Your SSL certificate will expire and needs Typically, every 90 days any modern browser users from connecting to a site that has yourself warned and make sure that your SSL If the browser finds that the certificate session key and encrypts it with the That encrypted session key is and the server decrypts the session key using key matches the one that was generated by the the server then generates a finished user. The browser then sends a finished which includes a message digests of all the If both the server and browser have successfully connection is established and all subsequent will be encrypted using that session key. That's is more to it, but for most people that's deep If it interests you, check the description should you use SSL? SSL should be used pretty sensitive information is transmitted online. card information and Social Security numbers as passwords, usernames, pins, forms, email Anything and everything that is unique to your how do you get SSL? First, you need to get what's a unique digital certificate that proves and is used in the handshake to establish a secure SSL certificates are available in both free to use Let's Encrypt. Let's Encrypt is is trusted by web browsers and gives free nice. Paid SSL certificates are issued and with a quick Google search, Free SSL certificates are an excellent option handle extremely sensitive information. They and need to keep costs low. However, free SSL security as paid SSL certificates. Paid SSL that handle sensitive information such They offer higher levels of security and which is a very nice feature. Just in case you large e-commerce website that performs lots of right for you. I can't tell you which one is right if you can't afford a paid version, at least get But whatever you decide to do, you should it is always secure with a tool like you can be sure that your users are securely SSL certificates Validity. You can also run make sure that your site is not only safe but is Linked to a free trial down in the description give it a like. If you want to learn more, new tech content. Stay safe out there and I'll