Do people actually get sucked through airplane kill a real-life zombie? How end up causing someone to die in extreme pain, and did you know something as harmless as All will be revealed in arguably one of our 18. after all, they often come after dark and start The good news, while cockroaches do sometimes other than cause a bit of itching. You'd be deny that these little space bugs can leave Still, not many people throughout history have death by cockroach deserves a place on this list. media reported that this Florida man had indeed cockroach, or some cockroaches. He'd attended an a local pet store, and with a bunch of other Basically, they had a time limit in which to but this unlucky 32-year old man choked on the choking and aspiration of gastric contents." Had but when "arthropod body parts" clogged All other 29 competitors came away unharmed. we can find, although choking on hotdogs at think. It happened to a young woman in 2021 A guy choked on a bunch of pies in Australia have been choking deaths at such competitions choking on food is hardly a rare kind of death, Ok, now let's talk about one of the most 17. like turning to stone? Your entire body gradually and in time making life impossible. It happens to "fibrodysplasia ossificans progressive", or In short, because of a faulty gene normally. Instead of just going about its when a sufferer's body gets injured- tendons, muscles, ligaments, and other Like something out of a superhero movie, new bones they lose the ability to move. They turn into Only around one person in two million life can be incredibly hard. A guy in the He explained, "Imagine breaking your arm and you growing and locking my body into place, I can't That's the most messed up thing about the body might see this as more damage, and most sufferers are confined to or at least a wheelchair when they leave We'll come back to diseases, but first, 16. put some of your hard-earned money into a vending and not let go of that item you so dearly want It's annoying as hell. We've been there. We and go get help? Or, B) Should you attack As you know, the correct answer is A, writing Infographics Show scripts, to take over. That doesn't usually end well. published in the Journal of the American Medical Injuries." Here's some text from the paper: sustained injuries after rocking soda resulting in a variety of injuries. required hospitalization for their injuries." machine not giving out paid-for items, but someone at various US army bases in the world since The injuries included someone losing a toe, skull, and a few broken bones. But the researcher barracks that the machine that crushed the victim The same guy updated his study, with all male except one. In fact, the word on the year after messing with these massive machines. Don't try to cheat. Some of them weigh 750 pounds with, they don't feel remorse or fear, and if you Ok, this next guy's death maybe shouldn't he should. He deserves to be talked about forever. When a man named Frano Selak did karaoke What's interesting is not so much how almost lost his life in very rare circumstances. and after falling into the water, he was fished suffered broken bones and hypothermia. In 1963, his sick mom. A door malfunctioned while he was in haystack and survive. 19 others weren't so lucky. crashed and it veered off into a river. Again, had two car accidents and both times the In 1995, he was walking when he was hit by a and bruises, and just a year later, his car was thrown through the windscreen, and over a cliff, Sometime later when he was 73, he won the already retired from his job as a music professor, gave a fair chunk of his winnings away, too. enjoy my life now. I feel like I have been reborn. Devil has moved on to torment someone else." but those that know him say he'd told the truth. stage when I was lucky to have any friends at all. He died in 2016, aged 86, but we As we said, what's interesting here is how rare the freakiest one. We guess you've all seen those movies and people get sucked out, their bodies sometimes such a small place. But that's the movies. The odds of dying in a plane crash are low, and vehicle accident in the US, which according to same study said dying in a train crash is one aircraft because of a crash or some other kind That's rare, but getting sucked out of you is screaming like mad is even rarer, It's happened, but is really unusual since even if you wanted to break it, you'd have So yes, very, very rare. But it's what happened She was traveling on a Southwest engine broke and smashed the window next immediately stuck to the hole and looking like described as heroic, tried to pull her to safety, the plane, but she was half in and half out. later said "A lot of research work was done in double-skinned windows and precautions like that." is a hole in the fuselage. That happened on nine folks ended up in the sky. There have also but again, this is about as rare as rare comes. 13. The answer is yes, but you'd be one in We don't mean just dying on the throne from but when pooping is the reason for the death. Syncope", which in layman's terms literally the US National Institutes of Health says it That paper explained that some people bear hence you've all tried to squeeze one out, as the pressure of the rectum calls for closure of the the muscles of the chest wall, and stimulation This can cause a rapid drop in blood and before you have time to think, in The paper talked about a 55-year-old struggling with constipation, and as some such situations can take quite a lot of effort. and at one point wanted to poo. She called for a although the paper stated: "a huge mass She went into shock and almost died, Still, there have been cases of dying from suffering from other health conditions. laughing? Laughing yourself to death is a in that they both trigger some reactions While death by laughter is said to be "extremely to ancient times. Laughing, especially when really It might also lead to asphyxiation or In other circumstances, the person might not find problem. That can lead to a seizure and death. some cases means the person laughs until they Let's look at some fairly recent cases. was watching an episode of a comedy sketch show a Scottish guy in traditional clothes and armed northern English man armed with nothing He laughed for 25 minutes straight and It's thought he might have had a heart condition In 1989, a Danish audiologist named Ole Bentzen Wanda" found it so funny when he watched the first although again, it was the laughter Writer John Cleese actually thought he should he said it was probably not in good taste. century BC and involved a Greek This guy was famous for trying to understand by applying logic to matters, but it One day he was out in his garden with his "Master, master, a donkey is eating the figs." Chrysippus then surprised the slave by saying, He apparently thought his own joke was Now for a kind of death that we imagine might have all of you. Some of you went through school at times pulling the person's underwear up as high and leave the person looking a bit silly. In 2013, someone died from this. The killer He'd been having a fight with his stepfather, his underwear and pulled it really high up, so supply and he died, with the press later just means when the underwear goes over the head. later saying, "Man, I did a horrible We can't find any other death from wedgie a woman wore such tight shorts on a date that the This next one is just plain sad. The last thing you want is to go to bed the side of you, something you don't This happened in the UK in 2011 when a man, a rather small woman. He work with an investigation proving that at some sleep and suffocated her. It was called Again, this is unbelievably rare, but 9. people dying on the job, but they mostly included conditions and then they had a heart attack. Thailand and after one night prowling around the met with a young woman for a so-called good time. it was all too much. The police said he died from drinking every night, and had underlying health Don't let this scare you away from sex. Sex and but according to the Journal of in very rare cases sex can lead to cardiac on the brain called a subarachnoid hemorrhage. said in a study that a fatal cardiac event cheating. That's what happened to a former Vice The 70-year old man died in his townhouse in New was his 25-year old former aide, Megan Marshack. because he was infamous for his extramarital making love, but people familiar with the matter in "undeniably intimate circumstances." although when a lion killed a Zimbabwean with her man out in the wilderness in 2013, "Unfortunately the woman was mauled to death by naked. The two were romping when the incident We're afraid that we can't give you any know, there haven't been any studies relating act of fornication. Sorry about that. We may Then there were the deaths of Brent Tyler a building while having sex in South we found a bunch of stories of people plunging it on. Safe sex is obviously a manifold term. weird after all, but this next kind of death is. This disease we are going to talk 400 people in the world have it right now. (HGPS), a disease that makes It doesn't only accelerate the aging process in age-related diseases. That means a kid or young and worse, cardiovascular diseases. These folks In short, this genetic disease makes it doesn't affect a person's motor skills normal, as can be seen with the Besides the way she looked and a high-pitched anyone else her age would. Unfortunately, with her family saying she died peacefully. will never happen again. As you may know, when it comes to accidental to go. The CDC writes that about 4,000 people in says the global tally is around 235,000. but drowning in a beer flood we can That happened in London in the year 1814. On open and that led to several large barrels of the and 323,000 imperial gallons (154,000-388,000 The people had nowhere to run when a smashed down the walls of their ugly abodes. others were Irish immigrants who'd been This was a tragedy, but the English newspapers about seeing as only poor folks died. with some of them saying after the flood almost trying to get all the free beer they could. As for happen. The Irish Times writes that the after losing so much of its addictive product. although one associated with 6. think such a harmful thing could be deadly. ran the headline, "Carrot-Juice That addict was the 48-year old Basil Brown, juice a day before his skin turned bright the pathologist, said so much Vitamin A was was liver failure. Apparently, on the day This is the only carrot juice overdose death we happen to you. Death by drinking too much water is super It's called water intoxication. which means the sodium levels in a person's body or cerebral edema, and that doesn't just It happens more often with athletes who've but we found three cases when it happened to The reports said the men had drunk over 5 liters here at the show even had a guy die during his It's hard to say how much is too much, that the kidneys might be overwhelmed if a in a short period of time. They don't say exactly purposes, let's look at some real-life cases. the US who while in a detention facility guzzled apparently part of a game he'd been playing. psychiatric and neurological signs including On his admission, 15 h after the discontinuation Then there was the recent case of a at a Georgia high school drank two liters very quickly. He collapsed and later died. in California went on a radio show to try and win along with 18 others was told to drink as much A nurse was listening to the show at the time, that those people drinking all that water can The woman actually won, but then she could be telling me that it's the water...that it will In the competition, called "Hold your Wee for water, wait a bit, and then drink another. but this woman kept going. It's The mother of three got in the car and complained was found dead on her bed by her partner. also in the US. It involved parents three liters of water in four hours. He threw They were charged with first-degree murder and terrible parenting, although the murder Again, we don't have statistics for death Now let's return to the super weird. One way no one wants to go is what we might deaths can be tragic and funny at the same time. else's funeral, a kind of two-for-one deal. heart attack at a funeral, and some more cases but the most messed up cases involved The first of which was in London in 1872 when a doing his duty as a pallbearer. At that point, they all dropped it and it fell on him. greatest confusion was created amongst and the widow of the person about to The second case happened A 40-year man lost his footing while carrying the tower. The coffin landed on him and crushed His mother! Talk about tragedy. What do you get when you cross a rather large 3. relate to cats being involved in people's deaths, or another when a feline caused a fatal bicycle people rabies and other dark tales of people aka, bartonella henselae, but unlike kill people in a moment of extreme violence. the 1800s. How true it is we don't know, but the It was reported first in Victorian As the story goes, a wealthy and eccentric Iranian her servants and her cats, many cats, because day a huge fire broke out in the house, which The woman told two of her two maids to which was dangerous since the house was This is what the BBC said happened next, The instant the door was opened, they tearing, scratching, and biting them in a frenzy." do wonder about the reliability of Ok, now you have got to ask yourself 2. that legal high that has more blood on its If the booze itself doesn't kill you, when mixed the ground itself, alcohol is one dangerous beast. involved a bear. Bears can be a bit irascible a handful of deaths around the world each do if he was out of his mind on hooch? story that happened in 1891 in the Russian An unnamed rich man had been given the bear is still a bear. It was said the man's and one thing they enjoyed above everything We don't know how this happened, but one day and ended up at the local tavern. There, it and it proceeded to drink it in vast quantities. was less than pleased and so he attempted with the animal half-baked, it did what humans Rabbanovitch was killed, but the bear wasn't When the villagers arrived at the tavern, to a pool of blood and vodka. If it could "Guys, I have no idea how this happened." They a drunken animal story we could find, so we're Ok, last one, and a story that is 1. in fact, some people from the past actually just tell stories about them. For instance, if in the Journal of Archaeological Science, in Mediaeval Yorkshire in England chopping up You can actually find cases going back thousands their dead by weighing or tying them down, so that folks in the old days might It happened in Russia during the 19th century. flow when the coffin opened, and a man opened "This was, needless to say, an unexpected the priest and the mourners alike ran from the to their homes, bolting their doors." walking out of the church and heading to a quite rational priest had come to the conclusion of it, and now just needed a bit of help. but by this time they'd already armed themselves caught up with them, the zombie had been cut People have been signed off as dead and come back those days in places where science wasn't exactly We'd say being killed because you're but in 2015, a Walking Dead fan murdered his buddy and a microwave, because he believed he was history of mental illness, although alcohol had We don't think we can beat that, Now you need to watch "SURVIVE THE Or, have a look at "Best