Are you mildly curious about the differences JPEG or even the dreaded WebP format? Or maybe you're wondering if there's a difference And maybe you're wondering about animated Did you even know that, or did you only think Well buckle up because the differences are But you can relax. I'm going to go over the major points first more complicated stuff. We can start off with the big two formats because they are by far the most common. But I can also touch on other formats like with but probably come across every day on We can start off with the differences between differences in my opinion. And I would say that PNG is superior to JPEG And some of you may be able to guess what The first major difference has to do with So JPEG does not support transparent pixels So you may know that pixels, a lot of times, And they have their own value you add them color. And actually there can also be what's called or opacity of the pixel, and PNG does support And the other three colors RGB are also channels. So for example, if the alpha channel for a means that pixel will be invisible. And then if the alpha channel is 100, it's transparent as well. But again on the contrary JPEG does not support So every pixel has to be opaque. Alright now the next major difference between PNG supports what's called lossless compression Lossless compression you could probably imagine, image without losing any of the original data, Whereas with JPEG with the lossy compression, our brains apparently don't care about in which means that some of that information which makes you able to really compress the kind of lossless compression. And you may remember from before I mentioned is file size. With PNG you can compress it, but it's not JPEG you can compress it really as much as So in most cases if you save a PNG file, it all and it's still lossless, or a lossless There is a way to save it with lossy compression really not standard. So you retain all the information but at the And actually in a lot of cases depending on talk about in a minute, you really can't even quality compressed JPEG. It's not going to be as small as a more compressed than the PNG because JPEG compression is actually Now the third major difference between PNG You heard me mention before the channels of And you can have more levels of information on the bit depth. Which effectively just ends up determining channel. And if you have an 8-bit image, for example, would be 256 possible shades for each channel. So you have 256 possible shades of green, pure red, green, or blue. And with that you multiply the three 256 numbers total possible colors you can describe with So knowing that I can tell you that JPEG goes which actually is not that bad because it's between around 10 million different colors. Though it is a bit more nuanced than that Though also a majority of consumer monitors So in most cases that's all you need. Though some monitors can go up to 10 bits Now PNG on the other hand goes up to a maximum around 65,000 possible shades per color channel. And that ends up being around 231 trillion Now you might be wondering why if the human why bother going above 8 bit? And the answer is well, the 10 million color First, it's an estimate. Also, the colors that the human eye can see a monitor can display. For example, you may know that the human eye So it may actually be able to distinguish show. Also, the brain interprets brightness differently So you may be able to show someone two colors won't be able to tell the difference. But if you show them side by side, the brightness couldn't tell before. Another big reason you would go above 8 bits, with a camera, which usually capture about an image, manipulate it, raise the brightness, going to start to really notice issues in There's not a lot of reserve information, So if you're just purely capturing an image probably won't be able to notice between a But if you start brightening things up and and you try to brighten them up, it's going Whereas if you have a whole bunch of shades, to look more like a gradient. And this is actually called banding and you heavily compressed because it may have gotten So the difference between them appears bigger So those are the major differences, but now And first we can talk about more details about And the first thing I can mention is that no difference. You can use either. Basically .jpg was just created because some file extensions. Another thing is that you can vary the compression quite a bit. You can go from 0% quality, which is the most which is not quite lossless. It's still not lossless, but pretty close. And as you would expect, the lower the percentage, And you might be wondering what 0% quality So I took this wallpaper I made. It's like a 10K wallpaper. I compressed this to 0% quality and actually original. Yeah, if you zoom in, it looks really bad. But if you zoom all the way out, you can still And if you're curious, some image viewer software quality. For example, IrfanView, I think that's how If you click the little info icon, it'll show And also if it uses something called chroma that removes certain amounts of color information, again, the human eye is more sensitive to So anyway, that is an additional optional In addition to the quality, you can also choose Though a lot of programs, they decide this For example, I noticed if you save a image 90s of percentage and it does enable chroma There are also alternative file extensions For example JFIF, which you may have never actually occasionally for some reason will same thing under the hood effectively. Technically JFIF is like a more basic bare-bones So now I can talk about more about PNG and So PNG, even though it's lossless, it does 9. So a compression level of 0 would be no compression largest file. On the other hand, a compression level of to calculate the compression, but it would lossless. That's why it takes longer to save the higher calculations instead of just discarding data Though even at the max compression, the file compression, maybe like 10 to 15%. I also need to talk about though how PNG has colors. So it can do even grayscale or what's called The TrueColor mode is not really anything It's like the normal way you would expect has an RGB value and it's going to have a it's 8 bits up to 16 bits. We already talked about that. But with the indexed color mode, it actually So it looks at basically the 256 most common of them and only uses those in the resulting value, it's just an index that refers to which So obviously that is going to result in a image. So this is actually a thing that I didn't It has an option for &quot;Smaller File 8-bit&quot; 8 bits per channel, but rather an 8-bit overall And this is definitely something you want this indexed or palette color mode, it's going 16 million possible ones. And if you assume that PNG is always lossless, So usually, yes, PNG is lossless unless you it's going to be very much lossy. Also with PNGs, I did mention animated PNGs, they're kind of rarely used and they're pretty They're basically just a stack of PNG images it lists how long to display each frame and It just like shows them in order. So really nothing special. I don't believe it has any kind of interframe an MPEG video codec. And also an animated PNG can have either a Now next, there's the WebP image format, which This was actually created by Google as a way formats to overall lower the bandwidth used of space relatively. So if you can reduce the bandwidth used by more, that can make a big difference overall. And WebP does actually end up being pretty You can get lossless compression compared depending on how much compressed the original The problem is that support for WebP files Yes, pretty much every web browser supports most operating systems don't. So it really sucks if you go to save an image stupid WebP format. It's such a pain, which is why it gets such It's annoying, which I definitely can relate And finally, I can touch on the TIFF image And TIFF can have either TIF or TIFF as the thing for both. And TIFF is actually a very versatile image It can kind of containerize a lot of different For example, you can have a TIFF file that also have uncompressed data or lossy compression really. Because of this in the past, it was kind of file formats&quot; as the extension, but there all image readers that can display TIFF must So I believe most of the time if you're saving I find that TIFF images are usually used where is the top priority. So if you're doing archiving, you can save whereas even PNG only goes up to 16. I believe it's unrestricted on TIFF, even support more than that anyway. Also another thing is that TIFF is actually TIFF file and store those edits in the file So you can save a TIFF file with edits that just saves the edits in addition to the original So a lot of times you will see photographers to have like the maximum quality. So typically if you do see a TIFF file on So you might be wondering after all that, Well first of all, if you need an image with That is the simple answer, don't use JPEG. If an image has no transparency, then you Assuming that the JPEG compression is like be able to notice a difference unless you stuff. And in general, you're going to be able to will with PNG. But if you do want to be sure that you're then PNG is the way to go. Though of course just make sure it's not saving I don't think many programs do and it would It would be pretty obvious there's not many colors in there. But still probably worth knowing just in case that does do that, then at least you'll know So anyway, if you enjoyed this video, found up for the YouTube algorithm. And if I missed anything, I'm sure you guys think I should have mentioned something else If you want to keep watching, the next video some advanced Windows features that you should So I'll put that link right there. And if you want to subscribe, I try to make and Saturday. So hopefully I'll see you in the next video