Ancient Egypt. One of the greatest empires in human history. The creators of the Great Pyramids and the At one time, they were the most powerful country But today, if you seek this empire, all you'll What happened to the empire of Ancient Egypt? Did they fall prey to conquest? To civil war? Were they undone by climate or plague? Or was the answer something more complicated? To find the end, we have to go back to the How did Egypt become a powerhouse in the first It turns out the answer is...climate change. Today, you'll find a desert surrounding Ancient Egypt first began forming, it was The area was less dry, covered in trees and large animals and flocks of birds. That led to the area that's now Egypt becoming 7500 years ago, it had become a thriving home They were domesticating animals, developing systems of government. And if there's one rule in the world, it's The early years of the region were dominated tribe known to have settled there. They were soon followed by the Naqada, which built the region from a few small farms to And it was all about location, location, location valley and most trade in the region went through They quickly established relations with both all around the region, and even developed that would eventually evolve into Hieroglyphics. And this civilization was about to take its How does dynasty begin? With a king, of course. Much of early Egyptian history is vague, since Egyptian priest and scholar Mantho claimed named Menes. At the time, Egypt was split into two kingdoms, However, many historians believe that Menes or a myth designed to create a unifying figure. The transition to a unified Egypt may have that around 3150 BCE, the Early Dynastic Period And it would soon grow beyond their wildest The early kings were based in lower Egypt, A combination of labor and a rich agricultural rapidly, and they spent it on the only thing celebrating the man who made it all possible. Every successive king built elaborate structures the king started to be worshiped as a God. While these Mastaba tombs weren't the same the influence for what would become Egypt's And after only five hundred years, Egypt - and The age of the Old Kingdom is believed to the Ancient Egypt that most people know took The kingdom was booming, as their vast agricultural new arrivals were coming from all around Africa A strong system of government was forming, the money to create infrastructure - including more vegetables. If you were the ruling class at this point, maybe less so. It was common for the working class to be construction project was deemed most important And this was where the kings' power reached It's called spectacle creep, and we see The last installment in the series had the Well, in this installment they have to fight There were no cyborg T-rexes in Egypt, but This meant both continuing the path of endless more impressive monuments. This period was where Egypt created the monuments of Giza and the Sphinx, both of which tower from around the world. But the first crack in the armor of ancient The kings were devoting a lot of resources vast resources made sure no one noticed - until The extensive land grants to temples celebrating on the kingdom's economy, the kings started the country became decentralized. But as long as the economy remained stable, good times couldn't last forever. Around 2200 BCE, the kingdom was hit with sector - and taking the country with it. The central government collapsed, and those But their celebration wasn't going to last. The First Intermediate Period of Ancient Egypt but it would feel a lot longer. While many ambitious governors hoped an Egypt opportunities for them, they were soon hit there was no one to give them money to maintain This led to massive food shortages, which Those local leaders who had no plan often But those who knew how to adapt saw their And with no King, these local governors often world - and spread out seeking more. So what would a divided Egypt look like? During this century-long period, Egypt was Thebes in the south, and the kingdom of Herakleopolis But as time went on, the forces in Thebes, And in 2055, King Mentuhotep II led the Thebian and accomplished what had only happened once A new era was about to begin - the Middle had been revealed and the question was whether Magic 8-Ball says...outlook cloudy. At first, it seemed like the good times were The new rulers of Egypt, starting with Mentuhotep created a boom in art, literature, and the To the outsider, Egypt looked like it was it was. The new dynasty wanted Egypt to be less vulnerable to expanding the country's agricultural of Nubia and took over their quarries and They were also clearly worried about being one of the first large-scale security projects known as the Walls of the Ruler that guarded It would lead to some significant shifts in While early Egyptian art was more focused developing a little subtlety. Much of the art and literature during the the Egyptians worshiped were given more complexity. Osiris became the most significant deity during statues and monuments made of him. The construction projects were ramping up, So they brought in many foreign workers to and mining. This would prove to be the Middle Kingdom's The second golden era for Egypt was undone This time, the enemy would be too much of Massive Nile floods hit the region, causing infrastructure and straining the economy. The ruler at the time, Amenemhat III, was settlers he allowed in as workers suddenly This group, known as the Hyksos, soon took the carving up of Egypt would soon begin. The Ancient Egyptians had built a stunning good again. I know what you're thinking - but there's What about all those famous rulers of Egypt But here's the big twist - they ruled all Because from here on out, the empire of Ancient the world's biggest game of keepaway. They built something amazing, but the question keep it - and who will reap the benefits when And the first new rulers were already there. The Hyksos, who were one of the largest groups of the chaos and established their own power They spread out from there, and it was around current capital of Egypt in Avaris. The King, who had lost much of his power base, Maybe it was the way the Hyksos were invited the rulers - instead treating the king as As long as he paid them tribute, he was free But anyone who visited Egypt at the time might were still in charge - because the Hyksos them. While they kept many of the cultural trappings area. And it all comes back to war. The Egyptians had a powerful army, but it The Hyksos quickly changed that, bringing firing and horse-drawn chariots for fast ridings. Soon enemies would be facing a much more dangerous they were ready to make a move. The central government in Thebes had been to try to take control of its territory again years. At the same time, the Nubian empire to the and take over Thebes. Ultimately, the war ended in a stalemate as the Hyksos - and the once-mighty empire now But everything old is new again. The Theban forces had a new king, Ahmose I, a big priority. Through a hard-fought campaign, he drove the territory. But he wasn't done there - he wanted to of the territory that surrounded Egypt. So began the age of the New Kingdom, which ancient Egypt's last hurrah. This new Egypt not only built itself the largest Kings took on a new title - Pharaoh. This was also the era of one of Egypt's who ruled as Pharaoh and repaired much of She led many trading expeditions, leading such as bronze and wood. With these new resources, massive temples of Egypt's greatest rulers. With new territory and more resources, it as the beginning of something enduring for But all it takes is one bad apple to screw Why did the New Kingdom eventually decline? It's a complicated issue, but the reign A notoriously eccentric and ruthless ruler, faith and instead announced the obscure sun one true God. Followers of the other gods were persecuted, were started, and he even ordered the capital named after himself, of course. His legacy only lasted as long as his life, - quickly started undoing many of his edicts Could a country recover from the reign of It could when they had a great one right around Around 1279 BCE, Ramesses II took the throne. Believed by many to be the Pharaoh of the ambitious ruler was responsible for a massive the country's massive resources to work. He also began conquests in the neighboring Hittites that led to the first peace treaty To anyone living in Egypt under Ramesses II, No wonder they built so many statues of this But Egypt may ultimately have been a victim Egypt was now the richest country in the world a piece of that. The Libyan Berbers to the west were watching In Egypt's territory in Canaan, they were their borders. In the Aegean sea, a loose group of seafaring The Egyptian army was strong enough to fend danger was brewing. Within the vast infrastructure Ramesses II - and they often used this to enrich themselves, This was what accelerated the collapse of was repeating itself. But this time, the consequences would be more Two empires on their borders and a marauding meant the Egyptians would be fighting a war its toll. Egypt lost much of its territory in the Near period began. This was when Egypt's empire largely started The High Priests of Thebes took more autonomy of the south of the country, and power struggles Three hundred years into this period, an invasion Delta and King Piye began to establish his Egypt would remain - but would it really be You might be surprised. The Kushite rule of Egypt took on many of many of the defining traits of the empire Pyramids. While the Great Pyramid was built thousands who built the majority of Egypt's Pyramids. But despite this, Egypt's influence in the Most of their territories had been claimed being conquered by the Assyrians. And it wouldn't be long before the Assyrians 600s BCE and driving out the Kushites. But this wouldn't be like other conquests. The Assyrians had their own culture and had They promptly sacked the famous temples of it over to their vassals rather than administer This left them open to betrayal, and only a deal with Greek mercenaries and drove the The Greeks gained influence in Egypt, celebrated by the powerful Persian empire in 525. While the Persian ruler called himself Pharaoh - instead administering it from Iran and putting This was the official end of the Egyptian But it was far from the end of Egypt. Egypt was still a wealthy region with no shortage in the world wanted a piece of it. The reign of the Persians lasted several hundred world had emerged. He ruled the Ptolemaic Kingdom, and he had At the time Egypt was ruled by Persian agents when Alexander and his army came rolling in, Unlike the Assyrians and Persians, Alexander of Ancient Egypt and restored many of its Basing his capital in the port city of Alexandria, and learning and his successors built the the only country to have two of the Seven It was Egypt's greatest era as a colony, living side by side. But all good things must come to an end. Alexander the Great was a one-of-a-kind leader, and keep the public happy. This led to internal strife, attempts by ambitious localized rebellions. But one area was booming - trade. In fact, Egyptians were sending more of their had a powerful neighbor - the Roman Empire, based out of Italy. Rome was increasingly dependent on Egyptian thinking - wouldn't it be easier if we just them? But wait! What happened to the most famous Egyptian If you ask people for one Egyptian ruler, powerful queen best known for starring in played by Elizabeth Taylor and soon Gal Gadot. But what most people don't know...is that She was the last Queen of the Ptolemaic dynasty, Marc Antony. They attempted to defend Egypt against the and Octavian, the man who would become the territory. And with that, most people believe that the man in the world - obtaining what was once that. And so the Egyptian empire ended not with The Romans ruled the Egyptians with a firmer it directly and eliminating many of the traditions. As Christianity took root in Rome, it would the Egyptian Orthodox Church being one of to still be around. The Romans were the strongest empire in the - and no other power challenged their reign. Resistance against Roman rule was limited among themselves. The battle between Christianity and the local until 391 CE, when Emperor Theodosius declared and shuttered the temples. Slowly, the traditions of Ancient Egypt faded lost language for a long time. But no empire lasts forever. The Roman empire slipped into decline by the part of the Eastern Empire based in Constantinople. As empires battled for the scraps left by control once again, then the Byzantine empire Finally, in 639 the Muslim Rashidun army would the Muslim Arab rule of the country that largely Egypt endures, and so do many of its greatest today is roughly twenty empires removed from Which raises the question - why did Egypt It's hard to pinpoint one point of failure empires to grace the Earth. But Ancient Egypt didn't die out due to nations - it died out due to all of them. The kingdom didn't fall once, it fell again, sometimes due to other factors - but its internal opportunity presented itself, it would rebuild Its two later "Great kingdom" periods and it came back from each period stronger. So why didn't that repeat itself another The most likely explanation is that after just wasn't strong enough to maintain any The constant ebb and flow of various empires the Egyptian people likely kept any powerful came into the picture, it had been hundreds nation. Then came the long period of Roman oppression, wiped out. By the time that ended, the remnants of Ancient of national identity was weaker than ever. So what about the Egypt of today? Egypt was a province of the British empire the Ottomans, but has maintained independence Still largely populated by the Arab Muslim in the post-Rome era, their hundred years They've been involved in several wars, and elected leaders, and currently a military But despite this, they're considered one East and have strong diplomatic relationships As for their history, they still hold their pride - and many of the remaining sites are But Ancient Egypt's greatest legacy may ancient empires that capture the world's like the Pyramids, the Sphinx, the story of were probably not getting back out of their life. No empire lasts forever, but if the Ancient movies thousands of years later, it's pretty as they had hoped. Want to learn more about ancient Egypt? Watch "Evidence Reveals How The Pyramids Secrets From Egyptian Book of the Dead"