[ Scary music plays ] -Looking for better rates? -Jesus. -You know you won't find them. With State Farm's Rate Match, even if you do find cheaper [ Smooches ] -This is my house, He is not a good neighbor! -Get your finger out of my face! -Save even more when you -At Southwest Airlines, on a smooth flying experience. -But over the holiday season, Our system collapsed, and thousands of flyers and you understandably even more than you usually do. -And, sure, we lost and are being investigated -Which is why, this year, we are dedicated with a better, more modern -For starters, our entire communications system to 2008 Dell computers. -That's right. to those 2002 with the little red nipple -Also, no more missing baggage -From here on out, all luggage -That makes it -So, if you're going to Dallas, -Don't show up with a blue bag. Blue bags go to Charlotte. -And make sure to get to enjoy our new located inside We just get there early and hold down two -Southwest is also modernizing our entire -No more pen and paper. Our air traffic specialists our old IBM ThinkPad laptops with the little red nipple -Now I get a proper instead of finding out where I'm -And now we're by not having one at all. -We're just trying -You showed your ticket You good. -We're also upgrading strictly with people who So come at them if you want, but these big bitches -Here at Southwest, mistakes Mostly. -Hey, man, let's keep it real. -Again, you bought You obviously don't respect -Thank you. -Thank you. -Welcome aboard. -Southwest Airlines. If it's that important to you, -As a homeowner, you never -I wanted to give them a bath. -Luckily, State Farm no matter what the issue. And with the State Farm app, so you can get back -Wow, that was easy. Thanks, Jake from State Farm. -Like a good neighbor, -Guess I won't be late [ Chuckles ] Is this dryer-safe? [ Laughter ] -Bye, hon. Hey, do you want -I'd love one. -No matter what State Farm has a policy for you. -Hello? -Aah! -Oh, Jake from State Farm. You're still here. -Well, unlike other State Farm's here for you 24/7. -Right. Uh, so, what's the plan -Oh, Jake and the kids and I But there should be stuff in -Hey, come here. Hey, my man. -Text me when you get home. [ Alarm blaring ] -In sports, the Blue Jays in the deciding game of the American League East [ Vehicle approaching ] -There you go. Whoa. Think fast. -Hey. -Jake thought it'd be nice -To church? And I happen to agree. -See? You're getting it. You're a natural. Give me some. Hmm! Like a good neighbor, Ooh! Some heat. State Farm is there. He paid the insurance claim. [ Laughter ] State Farm is there. State Farm is there. Looking for better rates? -Jesus. -You know you won't find them. With State Farm's Rate Match, even if you do find cheaper [ Smooches ] -This is my house, He is not a good neighbor! -Get your finger out of my face! -Save even more when you -Well, sleep tight. State Farm's here for you 24/7. -I just wanted a policy! Like a good neighbor, And here and in my bed With my wife! He took everything. Everything! [ Siren chirps ] You don't have to do this, - LiMu Emu -LiMu and I can help. - Liberty, Liberty, Liberty Liberty -Anyone out here watching this [ Cheers and applause ] I am the biggest I love their new show I love that they're including but, to be honest, they take me out of it it's that blonde hair It's a little jarring. You're like, You know what I mean? And then they're coming out with Season 2, I guess, soon, and, somehow, Lorne Michaels of Season 2 Exclusive, so check it out. [ Cheers and applause ] [ &quot;House of the Dragon&quot; -Before we go to war we must know -These represent all of our -Thank you, Daemon. -And I've prepared so we know who the hell -Yes, because our names are -I've also prepared a chart and, weirdly enough, it's -You have a visitor, Your Grace. [ Door opens ] the Sea Snake himself, -Lord Corlys, this is Where have you come from? -The Matrix. Just kidding. -You must've been at sea -Oh, of course. This is where my people are Yeah, we especially love Never have any concerns or what might happen to us -Have you come alone? -Oh, no, no, I brought Baela and Rhaena. -Greetings, Your Grace. -So happy to have traveled in this ball gown, Your Grace. -It's wonderful to see you to my nephew/stepsons -Yes, I look at he is definitely going to -Mm-hmm. the honor of your visit, -Yeah, well, you know, I know now that your father has died. -Died? [ Groans ] -Oh, my God, man. What is happening -The doctor says it's nothing. Just a little cough and my skin melted -Well, I found you from even further-away lands that have come to pay their -Well, well, well. Good to see you, Your Grace. Cousin Daemon, well, I haven't How does it feel Yuck. the sun took a look and said, [ Laughs ] looks like you got a case -[ Laughs ] -You're going to die any minute, -Yeah, yeah. -Well, if it isn't our cousin, -[ Chuckles ] their titties -You look like E.T. when they -Ha. all that was hateful, man. -Your Jheri curl's -That's that dragon spray. -More visitors approach. -Pardon me, Your Grace, but I think your penis If you don't want it anymore, Might be able -Who is this foul man? -I came here I'm down to my last one. -What the hell -You mind if I, um, get a light? Dracarys. -Be gone, all of you. -Oh, no, there's more. -I'm one of the baddest Westeros has ever seen. One of the best singers and I'm Aegon Targaryen, bitch, I heard you like Want to ride mine, -[ Roars ] -Take me to Flea Bottom -What up, Tar? I got a dragon now. -[Bleep] No, dragon. [Bleep] No, dragon. [ Siren chirps ] What are they doing No matter how high I fly, they always find you, -Winter has arrived, y'all. -Temperatures dropping. -And you know what that means. -It's cuffing season. -That time of year to keep us warm -But not just any man will do. -That's right -- we out here - It's cuffing season Now we got a reason I need a big boy Give me a big boy - Big, b-big, b-big, big boy - It's cuffing season All the girls are leaving - Big boy - Big boy - I need a big boy Keeps me warm Wind chill is biting, He bring in my groceries - Till the sun comes back, Makes his own heat For the next three months, Forget a six-pack, - Big boy with a big old back A California king, With steaks on steaks B-Butter, bacon, cheese, - Need an enormous man Feeds me snacks And I hope he asks me 'Cause messing with a big boy - It's cuffing season All the girls be needing Need a big boy I want a big boy Give me a big boy - I need a big boy body Big mouth breather Get in the bed And when we all done, And then he stops -Babe! Babe! Did this man just die? - Anything I need, If I need a snack, - Big warm hoodie, yeah, And if we gonna travel You know he gonna put me 'Cause he don't fit - Hey, big boys Go, big boys Hey, big boys I like a big boy -Oh, wait, wait, wait, Punkie, I thought -I love girls, but they I want to be It's like this. Being man enough to hold you Taking care of kids and wife I mow the lawn, You don't think All I do is work and stress And I could use a big boy He need to have In the front and in the back And, yes, Like McDonald's Big Macs But if we talking girls, And it don't matter Like 'em thick, - It's cuffing season And now we got a reason I want a big boy Give me a big, big, big boy -We out here, ladies. We the reason for the season. These bears don't hibernate And you know where to find us. We'll be shoveling snow - Big, b-big, b-big boys -HBO's &quot;The Last of Us&quot; proving a video game can become This spring, HBO is doing it -It's been 10 years The only thing we have left? Hope. -I have important cargo People say you used to drive? -People say a lot of things. -You got a name? -It's-a me... Mario. So, what's the cargo? -Not what. Who. She's a princess. At least she was -We'll never make it on foot. -You won't have to. [ Beeping ] -Let's a-go. -From the producers and the master storytellers behind &quot;Mario Karts&quot; -What's it like out here? -Karting out here isn't a game. If we're going to make it, [ Knock on door ] [ Gun cocks ] -It's-a Luigi time. -Everything on this road -What is that thing? -Goomba -- sentient fungus -All your favorite wacky racers reimagined as complex -I'm Yoshi. I'm bisexual. -[ Roars ] -Name's Toad. Also, I'm bisexual. -&quot;HBO picked the wrong game &quot;Yeah, this ain't it,&quot; -You eat that poison? -It makes me feel big, okay?! I need to feel big! 'Cause Bowser's out there. And he's the main bad guy. [ Tires screeching ] When we're out there -Whoo-hoo! -...I need you to trust me. Hold on! I'll get you to Rainbow Road. -There's a shell on my 6! -You can dodge it! -No. It's red. -What if we crash? -A little guy in a cloud comes and uses a fishing pole -Oh. Okay. [ Beeping, gunshot ]