- I still remember when I first decided I had just graduated college. And I remember telling my very hardened by the world, I remember telling her She goes, &quot;Why?&quot; And I go, &quot;Because I've never felt better &quot;than when I could bring And I remember her just &quot;That's the softest shit I've ever heard.&quot; I was like, oh cool, great. - JB Ball! - Thank you, y'all. Seriously, thank you. How sweet was that? Jesus Christ. I didn't know how weird it was to tell people I was from We got a reputation, y'all it's... It's bad. You know what I'm saying? 'Cause we're a weird place. Like let's be honest, Florida's like the Kanye of the 50 states. Like, let's be honest, you know? It's like when I was young I loved it, but the older I get, the more I'm like, I mean, I don't know if I could defend everything it's doing. You feel where I'm coming from? Florida and Kanye just when it comes to like how Does that make sense? It's like, yeah, they're both creative, they both love women with big booties, but they both tried to make It's like, eh... Mistakes were made. It's a tough thing to defend, I still get defensive for Florida. When I'm on the road, I actually do. I get defensive all the time. I just don't like it when people try to make it in the country only happens here. I'm like, get the fuck Let's stop acting like you and you were walking down the street and you saw some dude that &quot;Avoid that fucking guy. &quot;Oh my god.&quot; &quot;Was this dick sticking &quot;Jesus, you saw that, right?&quot; It's just crazy to me. And then people try to as if that's the end all, be all. Get the fuck outta here. They're like, &quot;Well, I hate that they say it as if all the other people in Florida aren't reading it thinking Say, &quot;Well, what about Florida man?&quot; It's like, what about that nigga? He's crazy! &quot;But what about Florida man?&quot; He's out of his mind! I agree with you! It's so weird that they bring that up. You know what I mean? 'Cause I just, oh, what's the It's just with Florida man stories, they don't make sense to me like what do they think we Like, we're not relating Like, none of us are reading all these crimes and going, &quot;Oh, shit.&quot; &quot;All right, yeah. &quot;Dude, follow your dreams, baby.&quot; &quot;Jerry always said he &quot;through a drive-through window.&quot; &quot;And they told him he couldn't So ridiculous, man. And then you'll hear people They'll be like, &quot;Well, if &quot;why don't we hear as much about us?&quot; I asked a prosecutor, I'll tell you why. Did you know that everything in this country is public record? Anything that goes to court, you can look it up if you know how. But, and this is what I didn't know, every state uses a different site, and it just so happens, Florida has one of the easiest sites to search public records for, even if you have no experience So you could do like a keyword search. You could go meth, eat, face. A case in Florida's gonna show up. But you could do that exact The case exists and it doesn't show up unless you know how to pry Do you understand what I'm saying? The other states aren't less crazy, they're just better at keeping secrets. That's all it is. They're Bruce Jenner. We're Caitlin. That's it. That's literally all And I just don't like when they try to make it Have you read your news? I have. I've checked your sites and Have you seen this guy in Colorado? He tricked out his bulldozer into a tank and he drove it through the of everyone he thought wouldn't You wanna talk about Colorado man? You see this guy in Massachusetts, literally living in the walls would only come out at night to pretend to be the of the two little girls that live there. We don't wanna shout out That's all I'm saying. I'm not saying if you're you're a bad person, but stop acting like it People are fucking dogs That's a weird point to Oh my god, dude, it does Crazy people are everywhere though. Be real. They don't hide behind the state lines. They're like, &quot;No, we're everywhere.&quot; You see the story about Cop in St. Louis sued his own precinct because his boss told him &quot;Tone down your gayness.&quot; That is a direct quote. &quot;Tone down your gayness,&quot; with an HR department. Are you outta your fucking mind? But that was a direct quote. That's what he told him. So this cop sues the department. He wins the case as he should, by the way. You know how much he was awarded? $19 million. You hear what I just heard? I can tell you what I just heard. I have not been acting $19 million you said? I will do some almost gay things... For $19 million. If I was a cop, you I'll put rhinestones on my handcuffs. I don't give a shit. I'll do whatever I gotta do. I'll start macing everybody What's the point? What do I gotta do? Everybody I bring to the I don't care. I'll get your Miranda rights wrong. I'll be like, &quot;You got the It's $19 million. You're not gonna do whatever it takes? I'll change the siren of my cop car to an Ariana Grande song. I don't give a damn. You saw me chasing you down the street. You just hear, Bang, bang, hands on the roof Like, I don't give a fuck. What are we talking about? It's $19 million! I'll spit on my night I'll be like, &quot;What seems I'm just saying that's a lot of money. I'm not gay or a cop. I wanna be both of those things. Crazy people are everywhere. That's the only point I don't like how people Like, I live in LA now. I've been there for five years. The number one question I get asked when I tell people I'm &quot;Oh, are you from one &quot;where the teachers are I'm like, &quot;Wow, what? &quot;Fucking the students?&quot; &quot;I mean, yeah.&quot; &quot;Twice.&quot; And they're like, &quot;That's funny to you?&quot; And I go, &quot;It depends on the situation.&quot; And they're like, &quot;When's a teacher sleeping And I'm like, &quot;Seventh grade.&quot; Seventh grade, it's real funny, man. I'll tell you a real story. You could look it up on our site. When I was in seventh grade, we had a female teacher who That's true. Class she taught, hardest math class we Student she slept with, When the rest of us students none of us were like, We were all like, &quot;Fuck, we &quot;Oh, you're telling me &quot;that's what was at stake the whole time?&quot; Understand the point I'm not saying teachers should I'm saying I've never been You feel me? Bro, she's giving out fellatio for ratios. You think I'm not gonna Bro, I was studying for that I'm like, &quot;You only get one shot. &quot;Do not miss your chance to...&quot; Bro, you think I know Pythagorean theorem 'cause I care what the hypotonus You better grow up. I was trying to lay teenage pipe. Can I say some wild shit? Hear me out for a second. Look, I'm just saying if we might have more kids that were caring about their education. You know what I mean? But we're not willing to do what it takes. Like, hear me out. If you fail a class, of But if you ace a class, come on... Hummer school, what do you think? Like, be real with me. Fellas, you're not intrigued? Ladies, I know this I haven't thought of something yet. But fellas, you're not Like, if a blowjob is waiting you wouldn't have paid a little Like, that's all I'm getting at here. You could turn the whole game, man. Now nerds are cool. I love the dynamic there. Nerds are cool now. Imagine, you walking down the like what, through the hallways. You got poin dexter glasses fucking calculator watch. All the jocks are staring at you like, &quot;Damn, Sheldon be getting &quot;It's crazy, dog. &quot;I keep trying to learn algebra, &quot;but my dad keeps making &quot;the fucking dork.&quot; This is just so cool to take in. I just wanna live in it I read an article a while This company did a study where in this country actually Did you know that? Only 30% of people in this entire country get to do their dream job. When I think about that and I'm just grateful y'all came to support my backup plan, This was not my dream job. Don't get me wrong, my I'm happy, but this ain't what I dreamed. You get the fuck outta here. I never dreamed of telling people how gay I'd get for $19 million. Wasn't a kid just staring at the stars, &quot;One day they're gonna know the price.&quot; Thought I was going to the NBA, man. The NBA, they had other thoughts. I still remember when I fell I remember the day I was I'm five years old. I'm five. Never heard of basketball. No one had ever introduced me to it. I get taken to a game. We get to sit close. I mean close. Like, close enough to like, you get to see the game that You know what I'm saying? I still remember this I saw player A foul player B hard, and then I saw a ref And then I saw player A &quot;Ah, suck my dick.&quot; And I was like, &quot;What game is this?&quot; &quot;What is this?&quot; I'm five years old, my mind's blown. I'm like, &quot;You can do that?&quot; I remember I look at the guy &quot;He just said the thing, &quot;is he not gonna get in trouble for that?&quot; And the guy next to me goes, I'm like, &quot;What game is this?&quot; &quot;I wanna do this when I grow up. &quot;What is this?&quot; The NBA might be the wildest We don't even talk about it. Think about what you've Cross reference it with your job. Tell me their equals. Get the fuck outta here. I just saw a guy tell a And everybody who saw it What? What a free workplace. And I'm just saying like Like, the NBA is just a place where you could just sort of And I'm not saying it's You could just sort of do anything. It's got a place there. When I was growing up, there was a player named His nickname was The Jet. And anytime Jason Terry you know how he'd celebrate? He'd spread his arms like they and he would just run back down court as if he had flown away. He did that for 19 years. I need you to, 19 years of a Nobody stopped him? Not once? Nobody was like, &quot;Jason, where the fuck &quot;Get back on defense. &quot;We're still playing.&quot; Not once for two decades? God, I wanna do that so bad. I just love the idea for fucking 19 years. Oh. Oh. That's all I've ever wanted to do. You can't do that shit in comedy. I couldn't drop a punchline Y'all be like, &quot;What It's all I ever dream of doing. I just wanna tell somebody That's all I've ever wanted. I want it for everybody. I tried. I tried. Dude, I tried to get to the league, man. I tried so hard. I really, I really thought Closest I got was a white girlfriend. I wasn't really... I remember the scouts were &quot;Now next we want you to I'm like, &quot;I mean I'll try, &quot;but I'm better at the first thing.&quot; Y'all, let's gauge this By round of applause, how many people here of another race before? Who's done it? Yeah, okay. That's most of the crowd. All right, all right. By the way, you're not a This isn't gonna be one of those things. I'm just trying to gauge For those of you that have have you ever gone out with that person and then you ran into somebody who just assumed that's all you're into? Oh, you get what I'm saying? Where they're like, &quot;Oh, you got a thing?&quot; You're like, &quot;Oh, I didn't You know? I run into it all the time. It's one of the biggest People are always just like, &quot;JB? &quot;Yeah, JB only likes white girls.&quot; I'm like, &quot;That's not even true! &quot;I do like white girls, but And then they'll get defensive. They're like, &quot;Well, then why have your last And I'm like, &quot;'Cause That's all I can do. It's like, what more do you want from me? What, am I supposed to date We've got R Kelly. What am I supposed to do? You feel me? Sorry, I'm not the king of R&amp;B. I just don't understand, like Man, all I can do is shine the bat signal. I don't control who shows up. This is how it played out. But I'm from the south. Like, I still don't understand, for the love of me, I don't understand how in this day and age with interracial dating. Like, sure plenty of people don't. But you know who I'm talking about. Plenty of people still do. And it blows my mind that What's wrong? I can't even imagine. What's wrong with two You know what I mean? It's like, teach me I'll teach you how to Dougie. Like, who, I don't who's... Who's losing? Like, I don't even What's wrong with mixed kids? Mixed kids are just white It's gonna be all right. They're just Black kids You're gonna outgrow it, my guy. You're gonna overcome. I just don't understand why and open conversation and why it's not a threat to anybody. It's so bizarre to me, you know? Like, I still think about, listen man, if I had a baby I would love that baby to death. To death. But if I'm being honest with you, if I had a baby with a I would still be really fucking excited in the way I could be excited about that. There's nothing wrong with that. I'm living it up. I'm taking advantage. Bro, I'm naming that motherfucker Blade. I'm calling them Day Walker. I'm doing all the things. Bro, I'm picking him up &quot;All of their strengths, Like, I'm living it up. It's all love. But I'm basking in what it is. When else could I do it? It's just so weird when for dating someone who It's like, how is this even an issue? It's even more weird when It's like, how are you I'll give you a story. Long time ago, this is years I remember I went to a at the time, right? My girlfriend was white and she, well, she was my girlfriend, It sounded weird in my head. I'm just like, I'm pretty sure she's still So we're at the mall, right? I remember she saw that she wanted to check out. She goes to check it out. I don't go with her, right? I kind of just hang back. I just do like a general scan of the room. I'm just checking out where I'm at. You ever just look at, what's You ever just like look around in the room you're hanging out, You ever accidentally make Like, you ever hold each other hostage? You know what I mean? Where you're just like, &quot;What are our motives?&quot; You know, you're just I lock eyes with this Black dude, and the only way I can is too excited to see me. That's the only way I can think. It's 'cause what he did, We lock eyes, and as soon What the fuck is that? The fuck is that gesture? Who do you do that? Not a stranger. You don't do that to a stranger. Who was that for? Like, you know, you do that at the strip club. You're like, &quot;Michelle!&quot; You feel me? But not to me, random But that's what he did. And I just go like, &quot;Okay, all &quot;I'm not gonna really be And I wait a couple seconds, and I'm like, &quot;Oh shit, he's coming. &quot;All right, this dude is coming to me.&quot; Walks up to me. This dude said one of I've ever heard in my life to this day. I'm so curious to see This guy walks up to me, I He goes, &quot;Hey brother, I &quot;but you know when we see you out here &quot;having social intercourse &quot;you look racist.&quot; And I went, &quot;Social intercourse?&quot; Have y'all ever heard that term? I had never heard, social intercourse? That's an aggressive way to say hanging with friends, isn't it? I didn't know hanging with I didn't know I was such a heartthrob in the social community. Like, apparently like I when I was 17, but I busted my first social I had no idea there was such a difference. So I go, &quot;Social intercourse? &quot;That's a weird word, man.&quot; He goes, &quot;Call it what you want, &quot;what you're doing is racist.&quot; And I go, &quot;Racist?&quot; And he goes, &quot;Yeah.&quot; And I go, &quot;Let me get this straight. &quot;It's racist for me to be out in public &quot;with somebody of another race?&quot; And he goes And I went... &quot;You're gonna have to gimme a sec, man. &quot;I've never heard somebody It was like 2012. I'm like, who hasn't seen by now, my guy? How are we struggling with this? But he doubles down! This is why I never forgot it. He goes, &quot;No, what you need to understand &quot;is when we see you walking in public &quot;with somebody of another race, &quot;it looks like you're And I was like, &quot;What kind of Did that make sense to any of y'all? Okay, 'cause it damn sure I'm gonna talk about it. I just wanna make sure before I get fought. Let me say a couple things. Nobody of another race has the power to make you feel embarrassed Let me make that very clear. You feel about you the way You know what's wild though? You know who does have the power to make you feel embarrassed People in your own race. Isn't it wild how accurate that is? We've all got representatives &quot;No the fuck you don't speak for me. &quot;Get the fuck out of here with that. &quot;What?&quot; We've all got those. You ever heard Kanye? Are you always relating or are you like, &quot;What the fuck he just say?&quot; Remember when he said Do you remember how many Black Me neither. That's my point, dude. We cut that nigga off You do remember how we handled it. We were like, &quot;He did what? &quot;And there's proof? &quot;Oh no, no, no, no, no. &quot;The actions of this We cut him right out. Can I give you an I can't speak for you. I'm just throwing it out there. I think this is a great one. Let's see how you do. Remember when George Remember that? Remember when he did that interview? He said this verbatim. He goes... &quot;Fool me once.&quot; &quot;Shame on... &quot;Shame on you. &quot;Fool me...&quot; &quot;Can't get fooled again.&quot; That's a direct quote! That's a direct quote! I had to Google that to make sure I got it And all I'm saying is if you're can we just agree that you That's the point I'm getting at. I think we all heard that and went, &quot;He could have said that &quot;Might wanna run that one back.&quot; So what have we learned? Somebody of another race to make you feel embarrassed Somebody of your own to make you feel embarrassed Did you know there's a third thing? Did you know somebody of to make you feel more You ever seen somebody &quot;Ooh, glad I'm me.&quot; We've all done it. Doesn't make you bad, but it's something we've all done, right? And that's what I told this guy. I said, &quot;How could I be &quot;when this white woman actually &quot;to be Black than I've ever got to feel?&quot; Ooh, that fucked him up. If you could have saw his face. &quot;What?&quot; And he goes, &quot;How?&quot; And I go, &quot;How what?&quot; He goes, &quot;How could a white woman &quot;ever make you feel more proud to be Black &quot;than you've ever felt in your life?&quot; And I went, &quot;I'll tell you. &quot;She gave me a blowjob during Like, I need you to really You get what I'm saying? Like, look, that ain't an oppressor. That's a freedom fighter You ever seen somebody fight She's like, &quot;Calm down, I'll suck it out.&quot; I'm like, &quot;What the fuck? &quot;Wait, what, huh?&quot; Bro, y'all don't know pleasure. I don't care what kind of sex you've had, you don't know pleasure until you've got to watch while getting your dick sucked by somebody that looks like his daughter. Happy birthday to me. Happy birthday to me. I wish my ancestors saw that moment. I wish they were looking down from heaven. &quot;Well, look at that. &quot;Well, how about, go on God, what an ally. I still don't think she's if I'm being totally, I don't think everyone's What a moment. Historically. For race relations. Are you processing what just, we should be teaching students Do you understand what that moment was? It should say, &quot;Martin &quot;and Britni with an I.&quot; Yo, these were freedom fighters. They all had very different One guy was like, &quot;Turn the other cheek.&quot; Another guy was like, And Britni was like, &quot;Glug, glug.&quot; Woo! Love Britni. I just don't think she's That's all I'm trying to say. She deserves a little more you know? Just imagine, there's Put yourself in her shoes for a second. Imagine you see a Black man and you think, &quot;I'm gonna change that.&quot; And then you do. You understand what I'm saying? I used to hate slavery movies. Oh, what a fucking bummer. And now anytime one comes out, &quot;Baby, put your nice dress on. &quot;'13 Years a Slave' just came out.&quot; &quot;Yeah, 13, it's a sequel. &quot;Yeah, they franchised it. &quot;They're doing the whole thing. &quot;Get that throat ready. &quot;I heard it goes up to 400.&quot; It's a great history joke. As a person who is a proud I'm not ashamed of where I came from, I'm not ashamed of who I am, but I grew up in mixed neighborhoods, I went to mixed schools, I As far as I'm concerned, I'm the product of what this country's I'm trying to love everybody. That's where I'm coming from. As a person who is actively for everybody, I hate it when that are meant to divide us by race. Does that make sense? Where it feels like are more focused on splitting us apart than showing us a way to come together. And I just find it frustrating, especially when it seems like the answers are so right there in front of us if we just took the time and realize we actually agree on way more than we disagree on. I'll give you an example, all right? I mean that. Like, I think anytime I at the concept of white privilege, I don't understand why they're upset because it's not an attack. And I think it keeps getting and I don't think people By definition, privilege is to do something specific Doesn't mean it was easy. It's just easier for That's it. By that definition, we You understand what I'm saying? We just have different privileges. So that's why I don't see why if someone brings yours up 'cause we all get our turns So you can't be like, &quot;It doesn't exist.&quot; Of course it exists. You don't think there's Black privilege? Dog, I love Black privilege. Did you know I could go to I can go to any white wedding I want. Hop right on the dance floor, start doing whatever Everybody at the party's That's Black privilege, man. Doesn't matter what I Let's take Black people out of it, right? Take 'em out of the equation. Let's give another example. Let's say hypothetically we're watching the national spelling bee, there's only two kids left. There's a white kid and Be honest with yourself. Your life's on the line. Who you putting your money on? That's Indian privilege. You feel me? Let's say hypothetically after We're having a great time, we're partying, we're being merry, we're Two random women just start Oh, they are fun. Then two random guys start Oh, they are gay. That's female privilege. Do you understand the I'm saying privilege And the only thing I'm trying is if you just stop getting defensive when yours gets brought up to have a sense of humor about yourself, you would start to notice And isn't the world better with people who are willing to have a sense So just be those people. That's all I'm trying to say. Can I give you an example that makes me laugh? I love you. It's not an attack. Let's see how you do. I think white people are that like to be scared for fun. Like, you feel me? Not an attack. Doesn't make you bad, But not bad. But bungee jumping, skydiving, These are torture tactics! Some of you pay for them. That's a curve ball. I just think white people get to have a different Doesn't make anyone bad. I just think it's an White people can have a Like, I think white people are the only people you could &quot;Hey, you wanna do something scary today?&quot; And y'all won't just outright say, &quot;No.&quot; You feel me? You'll be like, &quot;Well, You feel me? But like you go to they're like, &quot;Fuck no!&quot; But like white people have They're like, &quot;Well, Okay. Look at roller coasters, right? Theme park owners know white so much you'll pay for a picture That's their business model. That's how reliable it is. They were like, &quot;Yeah, that's where we're gonna I've been in so many white homes and seen a framed picture... Of the entire family terrified. Why? Why is that even a thing? I haven't been in one Black family's home and seen a picture of four Black people absolutely terrified. And they're like, &quot;Yeah, that's the time I got stuck up &quot;at gunpoint right there. &quot;That's us. &quot;This is where I tried to So wild to me, man. And understand what I'm saying, 'cause I understand I'm I'm speaking in generalities. I understand there's special So please like I'm not being Just be on the same page with me. I'm just saying generally speaking though, that kind of holds true. I'm saying generally speaking... I feel like white people that y'all schedule it Like, you know what I'm saying. Like, literally put it on a schedule. You're like, &quot;At 12:00 &quot;at 1:00 we're gonna pet a tiger.&quot; You're like, what the fuck A tiger? Huh? You know what no one &quot;I want to go on a safari.&quot; Not once. I got so many Black friends, It's our country, and we're like, &quot;Nah.&quot; But I have so many white Doesn't make 'em bad. I'm just saying it's an that you can spot and go, oh shit okay. Why doesn't the safari I didn't realize it was something we were so like polarized on. I thought we were all of the same mind. Like, that's fucking crazy. And apparently we don't agree. I never understood like You wanna go to the zoo without the walls? That's what we wanna do? You wanna take away my The part where they can't get me, that's what we're taking away? Oh, all right. Every time I go to the zoo, people are looking at the animals, I'm looking at the structures. I'm like, &quot;That's a good wall.&quot; &quot;Like that net. &quot;Love that glass.&quot; I've never understood it. Why doesn't a safari sound It's not even a safe web browser! You feel me? You ever open up Safari in They're like, &quot;What the They make it sound like with no condom. They're like, &quot;Well, close it. &quot;Throw it away. &quot;Who knows what's in there now.&quot; It's so wild to me. I'll entertain it. Like, I'll talk to my white friends. Their defenses are so bad. And I'm not saying these are I'm saying you wouldn't by my white friends. That's what I'm saying. The stuff they argue, I They'd be like, &quot;Just go on a safari. &quot;You're gonna be fine.&quot; I'm like, &quot;Based on what?&quot; They're like, &quot;You got a tour guide.&quot; I'm like, &quot;That nigga's not a wall.&quot; It's like, what do you if a lion saw us and was like, &quot;Oh, I'm about to eat You think he's just and be like, &quot;Oh, shit &quot;God damn it.&quot; &quot;Hey, wrap it up, guys. &quot;They brought the fucking guy.&quot; You don't think the lion That's what I can't get. Like, that's not how your brain works? You think if a lion saw, if a lion saw a Black tour you don't think he's going, &quot;Oh shit, dark meat and mashed potatoes. &quot;Oh fuck. &quot;Looks like KFC came to me.&quot; What are we talking about, you know? What do you think the Entertain me for a second. You don't think that's You think that guy actually A lion's coming at y'all, he sees it, you think this dude's just &quot;Oh no, no, no, no, no, lion. &quot;No, no, no, lion.&quot; &quot;Not today, lion. &quot;You eat zebra, lion. &quot;Zebra black and white. &quot;These people just white, no good. &quot;No good. &quot;That's why we bring you mixed kid. &quot;Blade!&quot; &quot;Blade! &quot;Where has Blade gone?&quot; It's so fucking stupid. It just makes me laugh. Like, I'm just fucking around. But you get where I'm coming from, right? Like, you get the point I'm getting at? That's all I'm saying. I just think fear is such a great example for us to explore the concept of privilege where everybody can see it and but you can identify the differences. I just think it's a Like, can I tell you something real wild? I got a wild theory. I think I'm onto something. I just don't know how to prove it. But I think I figured something out. I think I know why each race with fear, especially fear for fun. I think I can see what it is. It's kind of a wild theory, I think if you come you've never been so bored with life that you're willing to risk yours. Does that make sense? Like, I don't know Jews Y'all know y'all came I'm not running for office. I'm not the guy. I'm just here to make the funny points. I think I'm onto something. I don't know Jews that like escape rooms. I don't know Black people Whips and chains you said? Fool me once. I don't know any Mexicans That's a real good one. Like, if you know what a tough If you don't know what a tough mudder is, just so we're on the same page, a tough mudder it's one out in the middle of nowhere. It's a foot race where you're just going You're going through like water running through like electrified fences. I don't know one Mexican &quot;Yeah, for sure. &quot;Yeah, let's do it.&quot; Like, &quot;Get the fuck outta here. &quot;I did that to get in, not fit in. &quot;Fuck outta here, my guy.&quot; All I'm trying to get at here, I'm not trying to attack anybody, I just want us to understand so we can get past it, right? Anytime I see somebody online or on TV or wherever say that I need you to understand but you are wrong. All right, I'm not trying to come at you, but you are actually wrong, and you sound ridiculous to Just take the time to understand. All right, privilege exists. Bro, I'm a 6'3&quot; Black man. There's not one person in here That's my privilege. I get big dick privilege. Doesn't matter if you're right or not. You didn't think it. That's my privilege, man. If I was an Asian comic you wouldn't have thought the same thing. Be honest. There's not one woman in seen an Asian dude and been like, &quot;Oh, he might dick me down.&quot; And he might. He might do it, but you That's my privilege. I get big dick privilege. It's a hardship I have Trying to overcome. But when you say privilege doesn't exist, you know what I always think of? It's always this story. It's such a banana story. When I was a kid, I remember telling my dad I told him, I was five years old, I told him I wanted to be in the NBA. My dad is a Black man from He's not a big dreamer, right? He's a very practical man. His vibe is more like, &quot;Survive.&quot; I'm like, &quot;Okay.&quot; That's what he's like. And I remember I told him I You know what he told me? &quot;Just have a backup plan.&quot; I was like, &quot;God damn, can &quot;I'm five.&quot; But that's what he felt like based on his experiences in Fair enough. I accept that perspective. I hear you. Meanwhile, my best friend, I was there when this happened. I remember seeing him tell He said that he wanted to in US history. You know what his dad told him? &quot;Anything you put your Isn't that beautiful? But that kid was white. Don't tell me white privilege I was there. I saw that shit with my own eyes! I saw this white father, I still talk to him to this day, see his white son look at him and go, &quot;I wanna be the first Black and with me still in the room, &quot;Well, if you just work hard enough.&quot; I'm like, &quot;Get the fuck outta here! &quot;Tell this kid no!&quot; Tell him that one's not for him. Couldn't do it. Privilege is just such and I don't wanna harp but I just wanna drive I do feel like if we're there are privileges that white and I don't think it's fair, if we're being critical of both sides and we're trying to come together, right? I do think there's one that I do find very funny, and I hope you find it as funny as I do. And I don't think it's fair I do think white people that I have seen get offended on behalf of a group Like, you know who to picture, right? That's all I'm saying. But here's the thing, I don't think that's because I believe at its core That just means you cared You were trying to speak on their behalf 'cause you thought you were That's a good thing. That's nothing to attack you for. It may not be the way but that's okay, right? And here's the thing about it. It's a really complicated situation because if you look online, you see this happen all the time. White people will do something Black people go, &quot;Don't do that.&quot; And then white people go, &quot;Oh my bad, &quot;what would you prefer me do?&quot; And Black people go, &quot;I don't know.&quot; And then we're just left nowhere. But both of those sides are fair. To be clear, those are Sometimes it's hard to You just know when someone That's fair, and it's fair to So it still leaves us in the when you're trying to I think I came up with something. Hear me out here. All right, listen, I think to show support for a You can use this in any group. I don't know anyone who And I don't know what you do after this, but you can always start with this. Give you an example. As a Black person, if I'm when I see somebody white that they can't say the N word 'cause that's my line. You feel me? Like, that's what I get to say. Why are you trying to upstage me, man? This is my big moment. You know what I need you to do? I need you to say That's support. You get what I'm saying? Dude, I get to go, &quot;You don't get to call me a nigger!&quot; And then you come in like, &quot;Motherfucker!&quot; And I'll be like, okay, I feel supported. We're a team. You feel what I'm saying? I'm done with allies, be my motherfucker. I need more of those. That's what I need. 'Cause I don't think to a racist person than a He'd be like, &quot;Oh fuck, I think that's actually scary. Stop being my ally. Be my motherfucker. I don't know when I started caring about all this kind of shit. If you saw my show like five years ago, I wasn't talking about I don't know what happened. I got older, I, you know, started voting. You start voting, you're like, all right, I'm gonna throw 'cause I'm hearing some wild shit. It's weird as you age, the the way your life changes. I'm not trying to be like aging sucks. I'm cool with it, but it is weird the ways in which you'll age that Does that make sense? Those are the ones that are weird for me. Like, the regular ones, I gotta wake up early. I'll probably go to a matinee. Like, those are, I'm fine. I was ready for that. But the weird ones where I'm like, nobody told me that was part of it. What the fuck is going on with me? Like, the other day I heard to one part of. I was like, what the fuck was that? That's a weird moment of self realization. Look, I don't know if you've I've done it my whole life. If you hear an entire rap &quot;Shit, I don't think What a weird moment in your where do I fit into this? I still remember what the guy said. I swear to God, I think you'll relate. Yeah, I remember he went, &quot;I got an actress on my mattress. &quot;I'mma hit it three times in one night. &quot;That's a hat trick.&quot; And my brain just went, &quot;Exhausting.&quot; That's all I felt. Three times in one night? I was like, &quot;Not for me.&quot; That's crazy. Three times. Bruh, you don't got work in the morning? Nobody's pussy is better than sleep. I'll tell you right now. And that's not an attack. The older you get, the truer that rings, and you fucking know it. That's not an attack. Ladies, I'm sure your pussy's great. Sleep is good. I like sleep more than sex, I know that. You know how I know I I go to sleep every day. I don't miss one. I only have sex sometimes. And even when I have sex, when I'm done I'm like, &quot;God If that song was about &quot;I got a actress on my mattress. &quot;I'mma hit it one time, then I'm napping.&quot; That's my entire... I'm like, yo, this, hey. Trying to hit up NyQuil bars, bruh. I just think it's so that make you change as you get older. I think it's weird to look and see the shit they care about versus the shit you care about. You ever seen that? You ever on Facebook and you're like, &quot;What are they fucking ranting about?&quot; You ever have those moments where like this is the This is the cause you stand Have you seen this group of people that's trying to get Disney's Oh my god, I'm losing my mind over it. There are adults, our age, voters, people whose votes They're out here trying They're so dedicated. Have you heard the argument? She never gave consent to That's what they're arguing. Now listen, I'm not trying to be on I'm not trying to sound I'm just saying you've We've all seen &quot;Snow White.&quot; All I'm saying... It really feels like they're he did it to save her life part, huh? Is that not a crucial detail in the context of that circumstance? Like, if you were the prince wouldn't you want to confront her? Like, &quot;Hey, you wanna explain &quot;so I don't sound like a creep? &quot;Appreciate that. &quot;'Cause you got me out here &quot;sounding like Bill Cosby right now.&quot; &quot;I'm just saying that dude &quot;I'm just waking 'em up. &quot;This is a totally different thing.&quot; I don't think you should who attempted to save your That's the only line in I think that deserves to be defended. If I tried to save you, I'm not a creep. When I was a kid, when I was seven, right? I grew up in Tampa. When I was seven, I was And I remember I was I'm swimming poorly if I'm being honest. I'm drowning, let's be honest. I'm drowning. I'm for sure drowning. I passed out. I sunk under the water. I had to be saved by a male lifeguard. I shit you not, I woke up on the beach to a male lifeguard giving me And when I came to, I completely understood There was no confusion. I wasn't like, &quot;I'll see you in court.&quot; Okay. You ever heard of Me Too? Well me three now, bruh. I just think it's such a this is the hill you want I'm not against consent culture. I'm asking, is this where you within this premise? That's what's odd about Like, have y'all gone back like as adults? It's weird, man. It's real weird. Do you remember what the curse is? True love's kiss will wake her up. That's real specific. Like, they really narrowed down the danger that could have come. You gotta be pretty sure to go for it. It's not like they went, &quot;Hey man, first one to Then a bunch of dudes started My ho, my ho Back off Okay, you get it. I'm just saying, it's just such a weird And I can understand, to be clear, I can understand if you were just like, &quot;I &quot;that he had to do to save her.&quot; I can appreciate that. I'm just saying, but can you stop making it when he did it? That's more where I'm I'm gonna make this very clear, 'cause this is a tricky topic At the end of the day, I understand my place I'm a man lightly making I understand that. And I can never put myself in relation to a topic like this. I understand that. All I can do is empathize the best I can from the perspective that I have. And that's as a Black man in this country. And I'm just saying as a I don't get what you're talking about. Let me say hypothetically, right? Hypothetically speaking, And you say the only way to to whisper the N word in my ear. Do you see what I'm saying? Here's the kicker. If we're being honest, I don't need him to ask for my permission. My life's on the line. There are bigger priorities at hand. Do what you gotta do. Bruh, I don't care if you whisper. Get on all fours for all I care. Nigger! Nigger! I'd be like, &quot;Hey, I heard &quot;God damn!&quot; &quot;Can you give me a sec to wake up? &quot;I take a second.&quot; &quot;No, I appreciate what &quot;but we're gonna talk &quot;You don't get to call me two niggers.&quot; And then y'all would say... - [Audience] Motherfucker! - Look at my army forming, dog. Look at y'all. That's how you fucking do it. That's a weird example. Let me give you a better one. I just wanted to see Let's say hypothetically, And you say the only way to just like the movie. I assume y'all would want that handled the exact same I would want somebody to go form a line, take my prop that shit up in a kissing booth, put some cool ass shades look back at the line and go, &quot;All right everybody You feel me? Is that not what you would want? Like, let's be real for a second. I wanna make it very clear I On the contrary, couldn't be more for it. But that's not the place I do think after all of from women over the last couple years, men should be making more of a point to showcase to women how how much you are gonna see like a change in the behavior you've been encountering, even if we're not the What I'm getting at is that we have your backs. You feel me? But the question then becomes, Here's what I'm pitching. Men, start making consent Take a sec, process what I'm saying. Start making consent the Start being a fucking freak for yeses. You feel me? Like, after the Me Too movement, show 'em what you've learned. Anytime a woman goes, I'm like, &quot;With permission.&quot; Like, I lean in. I lean in. Bruh, I don't unzip it You could be like, &quot;Get I'd be like, &quot;Is that how we ask?&quot; At this point, having sex with me is like Every so often I interrupt &quot;Do you still want this?&quot; Yes or cancel. Are you awake? I'm joking, I'm fucking around. That's a good question to ask. This is all I'm trying to Like, I think it's very clear that I'm a liberal person, right? But if I could say anything in an effort to bring us together, whether you're conservative any of that shit, man, like all I'm trying to suggest if you look out at whatever's the society, the culture that you are in, and you feel change coming, no matter how you feel, that It's not gonna hurt you to learn something so that you can be a part of it. You understand? You don't even gotta believe in it, but you're gonna have to coexist with these exact same people. It's not gonna hurt you to Does that make sense? That's all I'm trying to get at. Because when you don't know it's fucking jarring. And I just need you to understand, We've all done it. Why are we continuously I was in Kansas City a couple months ago. I flow in to do a show. I get off the plane, I order an Uber, I get this alert on my it says, &quot;Frog will be here in And I'm like, &quot;Frog?&quot; I'm looking at the picture. It's a picture of a woman, right? It says Frog. It's a picture of person I let's be honest, right? But it's Frog. It's what it says. I'm not reading it wrong. It's not a tough word. Frog. And I'm thinking about it, like I'm having this debate in my head, and I'm going like, I mean, You know, it's a non-binary name. No one's getting hurt. If you wanna be called Frog, you're Frog. I accept you, Frog. I can't wait to meet you. Put my phone away. I go out, I wait for the car to show up. She pulls up. I open the car door, lean inside, I go, &quot;Hey, how you doing?&quot; She looks back and goes, &quot;Ribbit.&quot; I went, &quot;Nope.&quot; Closed the car door. Too much progress in that car. Do you get what I'm saying? I'm not saying she did something wrong. I'm saying I wasn't ready. I wasn't ready for the journey But had I done more research, who knows where we could have ended up? I don't have more story That's all I'm getting at. It's not gonna hurt you to learn. Some progressive things, they're the wildest shit you've ever seen but they're kind of cool I did a show in Denver once. One of my best friends from a club, right? We do a show, we come I'm watching him walk He's gotta go around the corner. As soon as he gets to the end this is gonna sound made up. This is exactly what happened, right? As soon as he got to I saw seven teenagers all on They ride from around the and then they just started It's one of the most bizarre in my life. In real time, in nature, They just rode up to him. I watched seven children and I had no idea how to advise him. He's like looking back at me like, &quot;Ah!&quot; And I'm like, &quot;I think they got you, man.&quot; &quot;I think they just got you. &quot;I've seen Animal Planet. &quot;I know this isn't a good thing.&quot; &quot;I don't know where it leads, You know what they started doing? One of the most bizarre things They just started bullying him. Like, verbally bullying a grown man. I'd never seen something They just started going, &quot;You're gay. &quot;You're gay.&quot; And can I just say, side note, to see anyone riding a Just what are we, what? What am I looking at? Like, I'm not against you, &quot;You're gay.&quot; What? I'm seeing seven of them do it. And they just keep going, &quot;You're gay. &quot;You're gay.&quot; And what this dude said back y'all, I'll never forget this This might be the most progressive in my life. They go, &quot;You're gay.&quot; And he goes, &quot;That's your opinion!&quot; And I was like, what the fuck was that? Did anybody else know that You could say back to you're What an insane way to win the argument. Because he won. Be clear, that was a victory. But like that, that'd be like if somebody and I just went, &quot;To each their own.&quot; What? That's what I saw. You know what I learned? Did you know that no one can insult you if they aren't convinced that you understand that was an insult? Did you know all you've ever had to do is say crazy shit back and Dude, it happened to me the other day. Some dude called me a jungle monkey. I was like, tomato, tomato. Like, how do you attack that guy? You feel me? Some dude's like, &quot;You I'm like, &quot;That's the You can't get him, you know? Some dude's like, &quot;You can't read.&quot; I'm like, &quot;You're not my real dad.&quot; Love it. I just don't think progress when you start to understand it more. That's all I'm really getting at. That's all I'm saying. I'm not trying to sway you. Whatever you vote, you vote. That's what you do, right? I'm just saying, I don't think it's when you just have an open &quot;Oh shit, is that what's going on?&quot; One of the things I hate as a whole, like as a liberal, when people go like, &quot;Liberals.&quot; You know what I mean? Libtard, it's all that shit. And like we're just gonna I hate it when we get lumped together as if we're not all individuals who have their own stream of logic, who have their own priorities. That irks me. You think all liberals agree? We don't. We bicker all the time. We don't have the same priorities. That's crazy to me. I'll give you one of mine. Look, I came from Florida I thought I was liberal and I was like, ooh, It's a different thing. It is a different thing, you know? Here's my big one. I don't understand how drinking from plastic straws equals I hate turtles. It's too big a leap for me, man. There's just too much in between there. I don't hate turtles. I'm just too Black to I've got my own things going on. You know what I mean? That's all I'm getting at. No one's saying green lives don't matter, but Black lives called it I've been here a while. And just to be clear, you We still got women and gay people. The Amazon Rainforest was on fire. You gonna be here a while, turtles. I just don't understand that notion. No one's saying we should I'm saying we should care more about me. And I can't believe I gotta Like, okay, let's say hypothetically if Martin Luther King Jr. and he saw how gungho we from plastic while racism still exists, don't you feel like he'd be like, &quot;You motherfuckers have Like, on some level that That's all I'm saying. So we can sense it. I hate that I have to defend I don't know what else to call 'em. Like, I've been called Seven. I'm counting. Seven times I've been in a some woman walks up to me, she's always white, let's be honest. But she's always... It just is what it is. I'm not saying she's bad, She comes up to me, she She goes, &quot;Did you really I go, &quot;I'm sorry?&quot; She goes, &quot;Did you really need to drink &quot;from a plastic straw?&quot; I don't even listen. I just take a knee. I'm like, I'm not gonna be a part of this. I'm not gonna... Just don't do it. She doesn't get to say that. Like, I understand she but that's not your fight to bring to me. If a turtle came up and was like, &quot;You can't drink from a plastic straw.&quot; And then she was like, &quot;Motherfucker.&quot; I'd be like, okay, I'm wrong. No, I'm wrong. Fuck, no, shit. But that's not what happens. I just don't get it. It's not fair. You don't get to decide You don't fucking know me. You don't know what I've done. I'll give you a crazy story. When I was a kid, I had to who has requested to stay 'cause I told him it and he was like, &quot;I need my job.&quot; You'll stay anonymous, my guy. But he should be ashamed of himself. I stayed over his house He has a pool in the backyard. It's one morning we wake there's a pool. Excuse me, there's a pool? There's clearly a pool. There's a turtle wandering It's just a regular turtle, to be clear. Just a turtle. It's not hurting anybody. It's not like a big turtle. It's not small. It's just a turtle, just wandering around. You'd have thought this dude like an actual home invasion. He's like, &quot;What the fuck? &quot;What the fuck? &quot;Who the fuck does he think he is?&quot; I heard an adult man say &quot;Who the fuck does he think he is?&quot; About a turtle? He storms off to the phone. He calls up animal He goes, &quot;Y'all need to get &quot;or I'mma shoot it.&quot; He started the conversation with that. Not who he is, not where he is located. None of that information was important. They need to know if they out his yard, he's gonna shoot it. I hear the woman on the By the way, I'm seven. I'm watching this like adults are crazy. I hear the woman on the other line. You know what she does? I shit you not, I can hear it. It's so funny. She just goes, &quot;Good luck to you, sir.&quot; Hangs up the phone. I was like, oh! She called his bluff! I watched, I swear to God, I watched an adult man have I knew what a meltdown 'cause I saw him go, &quot;What, no, what! &quot;What the, bah, what?&quot; &quot;I gotta shoot this turtle.&quot; I saw his brain like come to &quot;Ah, ah, ah! &quot;I gotta shoot this turtle!&quot; And just to be clear, it No Ninja Turtle, just a The thing you're thinking of, all right? This dude storms off to his bedroom. He takes a couple seconds, comes back, he's got a fucking handgun. He's got an actual, it's big. Big gun. He's walking straight for the back door. And then I stepped in his way. I was like, &quot;Hey.&quot; &quot;You can't shoot a turtle.&quot; Sentence I never thought &quot;Can't shoot a turtle.&quot; This dude goes... &quot;You right.&quot; &quot;You shoot the turtle.&quot; I'm joking, I'm joking. Could you imagine? &quot;It's time to be a man.&quot; I get in his way. I say, &quot;You can't shoot a turtle.&quot; And he goes... &quot;All right.&quot; Goes back to his room. Puts his gun away. You understand what I'm saying? The fuck have you done for turtles? I earned my fucking straw. If you don't like it, Thank you guys so much, man. Thank you.