With its 22 million inhabitants, Mumbai is the economic Each morning, the city is brought To get to work, eight million people However, the railway network At rush hour, In the midst of this crowd of commuters There's the train. Vinit, a 26-year-old accountant, has an hour-and-a-half It will be here in a minute. Easy, gentlemen! To get on the train, A pleasant surprise, It's exhausting, every day, we fight more. You couldn't get closer to the door. Everyone pushes inside and outside. I have to wait for two Inside the carriages, the worn-out fans are not enough Despite overcrowding, and bank employees are still smiling. We are enjoying! Every day. It's not very difficult, The temperatures are quite hot. However, it has become a routine for us, This daily routine is not so fun Some never even reached their destination. Between those who hang on to the carriages casualties have become commonplace. This woman narrowly escaped death, This man in the pink shirt, let go under fell to his death. This commuter also lost his life. Vinit is nearing his destination. When you get to work, Yes, very exhausted, I take half an hour rest Although he has arrived safe and sound, in 2019, 2,691 people died A shocking average of seven deaths a day. Samir Zaveri, miraculously survived Thirty years ago, he lost both his legs I was crossing the railway track and fell. However, I was lucky that my body was out The train came The people who were there in the nighttime Therefore, within five or ten minutes, the bleeding stopped Since then, Zamir has persistently lobbied to increase safety on trains. It carries three to four times I'm demanding has all the doors and required to close. If any passenger get injured, then there must be and full service should be free of cost To relieve the overcrowded trains four subway lines but the overcrowded megalopolis Located on the west coast of India, formerly known as Bombay, The population of this former Bombay had a population Today it is home to 22 million people, and this figure is expected to grow To overcome the lack of space, hundreds of high-rise luxury apartments designed for the wealthy upper class who dream of adopting It's the house of our dreams, To build these huge housing complexes, the authorities are demolishing Bharat Dhupar works With such a beautiful view, you still have a lot of slums left These poor neighborhoods are home but their resourcefulness and ingenuity These shanty towns The city is growing at such a rate that it is having to encroach home to many wild animals, They are venturing built on the edge of the forest. The number of attacks Remains of her body were found, Far from the slums, Mumbai is also a city its glamorous film industry, Downtown trendy neighborhoods are booming, This is where Janita set herself up To be honest, Bombay is a city of dreams. Amid the people of Mumbai's thirst the sprawling megalopolis The biggest slum in Asia the Dharavi slums. One million people crammed A population density The electricity grid is precarious. Water is only available The sewage system is non-existent. Behind its obvious poverty, It is home to thousands of businesses, small auto-repair shops or even make clothes. Turn around, Mahesh is 27 years old. He grew up in Dharavi. This morning he received some goods some plastic containers. All right, who is helping me offload? We're going to get in Who is emptying the truck? Mahesh has found a way by clearing Mumbai of its garbage. Before, Mumbai was very dirty, Through recycling, We take the bottles bring them here, and recycle them. His recycling business For 200 rupees a day, which is around $3, the workers sort the plastic waste and various other qualities. With white plastic for example, This enables us to pay our employees, We can even save up some of it. Once separated, the plastic is crushed. For $6 a day, these men stick their hands Then the bags of pellets are sent off Have you finished Is it all done? In Dharavi, 12,000 people Sixty percent of the city's plastic waste The Dharavi neighborhood is a very large district Nearly everyone here has a job Despite the taxes that put many businesses we manage to survive. People eat well. Thanks to his work, This is the average wage but ten times higher He lives near his factory with his parents Yet Mahesh is content Over time, Dharavi has changed a lot, Before, we lived in wooden houses, We took out lots of loans You see, we have water, In fact, Mahesh and his family To climb to the first floor, you have to climb a ladder This floor is also part of my house, All these here are tenants, They've been working here a long time. The second floor Finally, a sewing workshop These three rentals Dharavi's informal economy This resourceful spirit This is where the movie Since this success, to visit its maze Some take the opportunity and experience the local color. Like in this leather shop it sells leather goods -How much is this? This visitor from China Here it feels like They are smiling. I'm surprised by the ability to survive in a really harsh environment. It's suede leather, it's 3,500. Imran, the 29-year-old boss, $50 and we accept Every type of money here. -Don't worry about cash. Proud of his brand of leather Imran is full of ambition. Are you okay? How's it going? It's a slum, It's like a small-scale industry. People are not doing crime here, It is looking for the success. We also try the same like that, If we see our brand it's top of like Michael Kors, In total, Imran employs around 40 members Is everything okay? Imran's father, Wahas, Forty years ago, Wahas fled Uttar Pradesh, in northern India I worked hard, I didn't have a choice. My arms hurt so much I was extremely poor. I arrived from my village However, by working hard, we got where we are today. Wahaj's life is like a fairy tale. Five years ago, on the top floor located in the middle of a shanty town. They paid $360,000 with breathtaking views This is a master bedroom and we have one small bedroom Come, I show you. and you see the decoration, and very hard working on it Today, Imran, his wife, make up 20 percent of Mumbai residents We have 24-hour water here. Is it a dream come true? Yes, my dream come true. The young entrepreneur to have entered the exclusive circle Most of the celebrities and politicians mostly because they have lots of money. It is a sign of success. It is a dream of many people to live In Mumbai, the richer you are, Down below, the city is suffocated Life is much calmer at the top. The most affluent residents from their upper-floor apartments One of the richest people in the city How are things in London? Babulal Varma He lives in this lavish with his wife and two children. Dinner's ready! Every morning Sit down here. Babulal is originally from Rajasthan. He moved to Mumbai around 20 years ago, My construction is my family business. My father, my forefather, I think we have been in this business If you go in Rajasthan, that were built How and why did you decide Mumbai is a growing city and I think In 2003, Babulal built These days, the property developer works Okay, it's great We are doing a lot of high-rise buildings. I think as a group with my partners, more than 50 stories. According to you, Yes, it is a necessity I told you if you want to grow the city, then you have no other way To compensate for this lack of space, Babulal has a drastic solution, We have started demolishing this. It is touching the bridge. If you come one or two years later, His ultimate goal is to tear down I think we all know It is hot in the city. If your heart is a little bit not proper as a city, it doesn't look nice. Babulal is the head of Omkar, on what is known as slum rehabilitation. It employs Mister Palival is here, This morning, to provide an update This has started? That too? The only thing left to do Yes, but we have to move the school, Before beginning Babulal and his team We are clearing the slums and mixed-use project Candor Mall commercial office, residents, and retail. Babulal has already wiped out The discussion but we need to rework, okay? One of his biggest projects He is building on the foundations It will be a residential complex At the bottom of the buildings, this showroom plays host It will only take five minutes. Raj owns a printing business. He has come here with his wife The visit starts with a promotional video. They are sold an idyllic way of life, a breath of fresh air that seems far What you see in this video The panorama will be exactly the same. Raj and his family This is a three-bed apartment. The living room It's where we spend most of our time, which is why we have designed it Raj appears to have been won over. At the moment, His daughter has to sleep This is not a balcony, obviously, The apartment is 560 square feet. Three bedrooms, three bathrooms, Something of a novelty Five toilets in your house. I've always dreamed of a house like this. It's all about the budget, and I think he will compromise on that. We are ready to move, The family has fallen in love with it, but there's just one small hiccup, Although it is still possible Raj is going to wait a bit In the showroom, has just struck a deal with another client I can give you a 36 percent discount, Okay, yes, that's fine. These housing complexes are all the rage in India. Surveying the slums Barrett is already thinking What I'm looking at is how much and how much is still left, With such a beautiful view, you still have a lot of slums In order to demolish the slums the property developers They are required by law to do so. Basically, it's a scheme whereby to get proper houses, we build proper houses for them What happens in the entire land, you have some houses and some houses you build and sell. That is how poor people while as the remaining part of the land, What are the buildings that house In Worli, a central district of the city, there is another Three 885-foot luxury high-rise buildings built for former residents of the slums. Dilapidated, A relocated resident talks to us, furious. We had supported the two builders, However, these property developers How long have they been developing They've been doing it for 12 years -Do you think that's okay? Contrary there is no school and the shops Three years have gone by where can the poor people go? Our interview is cut short He strictly forbids us of dissatisfied residents. Our filming continues inside the building their public relations officer. He has selected a family of six of 312 square feet, We are now going to witness Thinking that we do not understand the public relations officer dictates No thanks, not for me, I'm diabetic. You have to say: &quot;When I was my son's age, My parents brought me up However, I want my son and that will be possible, The man perfectly recites his speech. When I was young, Today, thanks to Omkar we are in the right environment for our child Says that he wants to be an engineer. However, he doesn't want he want to become a police officer. This family can consider themselves lucky because not everyone To be given a standard you have to prove that you have lived What happens to the residents They are moved In commuter towns 50,000 people are crammed into They were built just ten years ago. Wastewater is discharged in the canal These two buildings housed 200 families who were forced Abdul and his family of six The plot of land he occupied in Dharavi After destroying everything, We had to fend for ourselves, When they warned us, we weren't ready. They just destroyed everything In Dharavi, Abdul owned a business. These days he works as a delivery man We no longer feel the happiness This family of scrap ironworkers Three separate generations lived together This is my family and our home, Sardar is not happy with the authorities. I have nine children, my brother, and his family. Altogether, there are about 16 How can we live in a place like this? How do you all sleep here? Some of us sleep under the bed, some sleep in the kitchen. It's certainly not easy. This slum rehabilitation policy This shortage of space as the population of Mumbai in the next 15 years. Every day, settle in this sprawling megalopolis. Most of them carry out odd jobs. The labyrinth of small streets dressmakers, The most incredible workers on their bicycles. Dating back 130 years, it is the most reliable delivery system Shankar, aged 23, a packed lunch delivery man. There are 5,000 of them in Mumbai. Some of our delivery people it's happened two or three times. So we are a little scared You also see people driving around, and bikers driving recklessly Yes, it's pretty scarry. Once the packed lunches at the customer's home, Shankar meets up Give me the empty lunch boxes Each delivery man has a delivery zone. They exchange lunch boxes and to do this, there's no need for a modern system -Where's this meal going? -Sorry? Each basket is marked with a complex code The dabbawalas are illiterate, they are able to decipher it. They are numbers There, seven, two, one, and that's how we recognize This archaic system is foolproof, Harvard University even conducted a study to try and understand With PS66 on the carrier each turn of the pedal is like torture, Shankar sings himself a tune. We are the Mombay dabbawalas, At exactly midday, This young accountant pays $12 a month Why is it so important The woman prepare them It's fresh, it's hot that's why we prefer home cooked meals. Shankar earns 12,000 rupees a month, Let's go, hurry up, quickly, That's four times However, he didn't exactly choose It is passed on from father to son. My grandfather used to do this, Then I joined them and my father spent I learned little by little. Each year, Shankar and his fellow While some age-old traditions other parts of the megalopolis like the neighborhood, Bandra, With its tree-lined avenues luxury stores, old colonial houses, this haven of peace for Bollywood actors and trendy artists. Perched on the roof 32-year-old Janita I'm not perfect, It took me years to at least come to this. Janita is part of Mumbai's high society. She has a career as a model She has nearly 90,000 followers To be honest, Bombay is a city of dreams. Some people are actually lucky. If you find a way through and that's where the city really helps. If you have the right contacts and the right experience. Before she starts work for the day, Janita likes to come One of the few places We are on a contour route, it's in Bandra, It's just so beautiful in the mornings especially during sunset. It just feels like A year ago, Janita became a businesswoman. She launched a women's fashion brand. We have products like these, the ankle-length boots, we've got bags Her modern creations are appealing In this still very conservative country, Janita is proud There are now a lot of corporate women. They're more Westernized women. A woman in India and turn and switch into this other woman and a backless gown. That's the beauty of an Indian woman, This morning, she has a meeting -I'm good. Oh, my God, I've been waiting He has just opened this hip cafe, and Janita wants These are some of our products, What do you have for men? Very soon there's going to be a surprise. Bombay is everything you want it to be. It's got a bit of everything, It's about just presenting it rightly and she is Bombay. I don't know where I'm going In this city of endless possibilities, some French people are capitalizing Just 330ft away, Antonia, Jeremy, and Pierre are attending Pandits, Hindu priests of these three French people. This is called a puja. A Puja is a Hindu prayer. The aim is to bless the space, so they've come to bless the site These three French people moved attracted by the city's magnetism. They were met with incredible success. In addition to their bakery, these entrepreneurs offering organic and local products. It's a popular concept in Europe, They created something and in terms so we keep going They do it so effortlessly. You don't see any stress You feel like they're running Good food, good people. Each day, these French entrepreneurs To get from one establishment It can take an hour, There's a lot of traffic, Here, people are more flexible We've all got into the habit We use it as an opportunity Personally, Holding our meetings The last restaurant they opened a brand new neighbourhood It is home to the headquarters Amazon, and even IBM. This isn't the image people When they think of Bombay, They don't see a picture well organized with huge skyscrapers Yet this is exactly over the last few years. We have three restaurants here, and we will definitely set up because it's a city within a city. I think there's something It's a very strategic location. Here, businesspeople, executives, and financiers They spend an average of $12 per meal. In comparison our clientele here are not necessarily They are office workers, they're white collar workers. It's all quite corporate and serious. The 200 members of staff in the kitchen and dining areas of the French They are part Darshan holds a clerical position. I started my kitchen two years back, like different kind of bread It was a new concept What we serve here, it was really amazing, Thanks to Mumbai's economic dynamism. There'll be one axis here Jeremy, Pierre, and Antonia plan in new neighborhoods. With the ever-increasing population, the city is pressing further In the north of Mumbai, urbanization is causing serious conflict With an area of over 25,000 acres, the Sanjay Gandhi National Park The slums are inexorably moving further At night, leopards living in the park They head into building lobbies, They mainly go after dogs, In the heart of the park, on the leopard's movements I think it's over there, this place. Ranjit is a wildlife photographer. His photographs are famous worldwide. Together with his colleagues, he retrieves the images Is it a baby or an adult female? It's a female adult. Further, further... By observing these images, Ranjit has concluded to move closer to resident's homes. We have got certain footage or pictures and pictures of people after the leopard had gone from that. These predators lurking just outside In Aray colony, a neighborhood some 60 families live Krupa Tucker works Come here to the front, I've told you to stop going out I hope you don't play outside at night. The locals are reluctant We can tell children four However, some of them ignore us. I tell my children time and time again, They want the local council to help spot leopards at night. We need working streetlights There are a lot of people who come home We have been complaining for a month now. Nothing has been done, Sonu, Krupa's colleague We will review your complaints but you need to make changes The first thing is to make sure once it gets dark. However, the residents are calling We want the animals to be kept in cages. You see all these kids here? Why aren't you capturing the leopard? Are you waiting Even if we put out traps, others will come. To calm the anger of the locals, that is specifically tasked We are in the middle of the slums. Santosh Bania, the squadron leader, has just been called upon Wild cats often come here to attack dogs. Carry on, it's a bit further. Santosh and his team Do you see their eyes? When you move the torch, Lift your torch a little higher. Those aren't dogs. Over there? Yes, they are dogs, Despite the presence a man has come to meet the rangers. You shouldn't be walking around Don't go out like that, I come home from work at 10 pm sometimes, I'm afraid, but I have no other choice. Next time you're crossing the road, it will keep them away. After a few minutes, Leopards are skittish animals, They might attack young children However, otherwise, they prey on dogs, The presence of the rangers No, those are dogs, come on, let's go. Despite these words of reassurance, the number of attacks In Maharashtra, there have been 24 fatal attacks in 2020. Muthuvel and his wife when she was eaten by a leopard. You see there, that is where it happened. That's where they found A leopard grabbed our child here Darshani, four years old at the time, was playing in front Her parents found the remains We found all the remains There were pieces of her hands, We also found her head, That's how we identified our daughter. I miss my daughter so much. Since this tragic event, Muthuvel As soon as I hear a dog barking, I close the doors of the house, The family is now very angry We are angry, it's only natural, I understand that it's an animal, In the heart at the Leopard Rescue Centre, the rangers' lives are accompanied Can we open this cage? It looks clean. Mukesh More looks after around 15 leopards Here, each cage houses a killer. The leopards here come They attacked people, Did they kill children? Yes, they killed children. The adult leopard weighs However, it is an excellent hunter capable In areas close to cities, more than a quarter of their diet According to Mukesh More, leopards are direct victims In this conflict, I believe that it is humans Humans should stay away from forests This conflict between man and leopard Well-fed, the leopards have perfectly Their number has increased by 30 percent Mumbai looks like it will continue to push By 2050, the Indian megalopolis in the world with 42 million inhabitants. Since we finished the real estate broker, has been incarcerated