My name is Daniel Dorall, and I'm an architect, And this is my home. I am not a maximalist. You're actually quite maximalist. You think so? I feel that some people are interested in experiences. But for me, I'm a collector. I'm interested in objects. I have this idea of a place for everything If everything is in its space that's We've been cooking up something tasty. Meet our new magazine. Jam packed with people living small. Designing small. Sustainable and experimental design. Urban life and culture. It's designed for design lovers who like their design without the swank and the wank. More than a mag. This is a collectable keepsake. Born to live on your coffee table or best bookshelf. Mmmm: so hot Subscribe now before August 23 for the chance to win 1 of 3 July Carry-On luggage pieces. It's just me and my collection living here right now. A single person living in a space you really don't need more than 40m2. You know, 50m2 is great. Anything more than that One of the great things even though it's not huge, And volume just gives it, it things a different dimension, that you're walking into something So that's the song I don't have a car. It's about convenience for me, And it's also about, and what I can have in my space I'm really interested in spaces, which is why I really like this entrance It's a bit of a salon drawings and prints. I really wanted, a door stopper, I guess. And I really didn't like door stoppers So what I have here is one of these hooks, in another way, and it works really well to just sort of hold the door like that. Because it has a door closer, I actually use the same hook Swings this way down. You can have that amount of gap, or you can have it up like that more ventilation Very large picture here, which is hiding, I've got another sort of, hidden The trick is that you need to find a frame Sometimes I like to expose, the hinges. So in this case, I got gold hinges, I collect three different things. I collect: art, modern contemporary is it I collect objects. And I collect, books. I think the idea is to actually have like a bit of a blank So, you know, white walls, to display my collection. The kitchen, is, so we've got a pantry here, but I really utilized it low shelves Sometimes, you know, you might have jars, necessarily I did buy this metal plate. I think I got a custom, cut for me in this size, And it's all magnetic Otherwise, your herbs are going to hit All the cabinetry up here has everything I try to hang things as much as possible. My mum said, if you have lots of, Tupperware or, storage food, because otherwise Which I think a lot of houses have, Storage tips in my kitchen. Try to keep things off the benchtop. So I have a dishwasher, Sometimes you need to handwash. I actually have, And that just sort of, like, nicely closes So So this used to be I very recently got all this IKEA to store all the various different bits I live here by myself, I don't really But, yeah, sometimes I do forget. And so I'm going I used to have a lot more, but I minimalised it, into things So I use this trivet This is my squeezer, That's my Alessi, orange peeler. This is, called an oil Some people have like, I sort of thought, alright I'm I'm just going to have three knives and that's a bread knife, chef's knife And I think that's all we need really. I'm going back to that, What I've done here. is create a bit of a wine rack. In here is my sort of utilities area. So, you know, That's actually for picture frames. Just put it in there cause My Bissell, vacuum cleaner, There's a whole cutout at the back. This is my, brutalist poured concrete bench. This is the area which I use the most from all the oils. I didn't really get a designer and I didn't get, like, I got a concreter. besides it being a People about the fact that I've got concrete They think that the space is cold, because of, how it's laid out things in the space, their perception One of the things that makes this space Is that I try to collect, plants And I remember her having this asparagus I've hacked quite a few of the Lack Series So those are the table legs are just sort One of the things I really love about this apartment So it's roughly about five meters and it goes up, by about 2.5m. You have, exclusive view to which you can actually see So they open, just sort of halfway like that. If they open all the way, then you know, or an animal or a human. These were the original door I basically just use them for and I just need to wedge it. So I don't have curtains. But I do have blinds. The controller is here behind this box. And it used to be manual blinds One year, they sort of broke 3.5m, thinking if I fall So I got some electric blinds put in Not all Sometimes they can be a little bit higher. So that's a small So this sort of blue tack together. Everything needs to go with the thing which is next to it, in composition. But I think that comes You know, of like hierarchy It's quite important but you don't want to make it I still love art Even though I don't work So they are sort of influences This coffee table, I searched for a very long time. So for 3 or 4 years, I didn't want to buy something you know, a few hundred dollars on It's more of a platform, It's by Arflex, I think is Italian And it's called a Nap coffee table. And I try to have at least half of it, free space for if I need to, you know, I'm not completely convinced I used to have it just perfect, but then I sort of bought So it might change over the next few years Yeah. This is my main, picture wall, I guess. On the left made bookshelf, This is my new sort of hang. It's probably coming to about 18 months This sort of diptych, is by Janine I do get some morning sun, but I don't really get that much sun So it's always a few degrees which is good for artworks and objects. Not so great for plants. But I do have a balcony garden I have been working on this space for the last eight years as well, I always wanted So I've used those planter boxes, bathroom shelving So I thought it would go really well. That is actually two IKEA tables, And these crates here, there's I got them to make that, and I've just got so this actually just comes off The bedroom itself is not massive. It's roughly about, 3.9m by about 3.5m. The unit originally came so it actually ended here. I got that removed, and I actually by myself. I'll just give you a quick look inside, Anyway, lots of drawers for, you know, t So this is where I put my shoes. So I've just sort of carried it in after And on the other side I've got a huge jacket collection. Took me a while to figure out but I just really wanted it So those that's just sort of large Luggage, This is where I store, one of my ladders. So this is a four step ladder by Lucano. It's probably one of the highest step It's very very useful. I probably use it like, every other day. I've got, more seating for, you know, That's just a chair from Alessi. This little platform and I got another furniture maker just to bring it all together. And it also goes in line, with this other piece of plywood This study, was designed by myself and built by, Melbourne company, Like Butter. I do have stuff up there, term storage because it's very difficult especially putting a ladder That's another IKEA hack. I was looking for a rail, which But it does work laundry or if I need to, dry anything. I've got, another piece of artwork here. Hand-drawn on the wall, by Steve Cox, Melbourne artist. The bathroom, I renovated probably about 18 months ago, This is the original concrete, It's a 100 year old concrete. This is a, design of mine as well. It's all made in corian. I added that sort of latch there This is really literally all I have. This here, I thought, oh, you know, I'm going to get the cabinet maker and I need a piano hinge all the way here. And I sort of said, I'll So yeah, I think it works really well. I've put the washing machine, In this space underneath the vanity. I've got additional shelving in there you know, all my toiletries To actually keep them in place, I've added like, little nails, So they don't fall over. This originally was a normal door. But when I renovated this bathroom, so an entrance from the bedroom and an entrance from the living area If it wasn't bifold, it would cross with the other opening over here. But since it is bifold, it sort of just tucks nicely. And this is not obstructed. This is another sort of, gallery corridor when I created this separate entrance, But in here, is more storage. It also allowed me into the new studio space, I call it an excavation. Because, when there was a leak, a plumber had to come in to cut a manhole And when he looked up inside, so there was a total of five meters, When I first, opened up this space, It had no floor. It had pipes, running all over the place. So all of that had to be moved aside. In this cupboard That's where the, exhaust fan And in here, is the water heater unit which was moved from, downstairs. As you can see, it's quite a tight fit. On the back of stainless steel at the top here, which gives the illusion There's a cutout here, it serves And it also allows Plus the other thing, was that it allows me, put my legs in here, I've been using this space to continuously make my work, One of the things in the space, is this trap door. Which I designed And I sort of painted it myself. But it also allows me and fully utilize the cabinetry I've got this long cabinet here for boxes. Any, framed works cupboards here. There's a corner cupboard, And additional drawers, I think you can continuously improve in how you can live in a home. Because, you know, people change, people grow But it's all about tweaking and just sort of polishing things the home as you sort of grow. What makes it a home for me is that, I'm surrounded And that just makes me happy to be in the space. Thanks for watching. If you have a home we can feature, at never too small.com/submissions.