Steamdeck clones are a dime a minutes without some random tech And the crazy thing is, quite a few of them look to be worthy But, that's what's going on now! After all the wanna go back to 2015 before anyone was and not long after the world was introduced to Yep, today I wanna talk about one world of handheld steam-injected gaming one of the biggest scams from This is the Smach Z scandal... scandalous story we need to go back to But before going ahead here's a quick Isn't it time you got down to the gym? I mean yeah... but it's time getting a personal trainer is a great then your new issues are the cost and Thankfully today's sponsor Trainwell elevates all that tells you what to do. It's a personal 1 on 1 your needs, and your ability helping This is how it works After having my introduction call with my personal I explained what I wanted to achieve, how much workout. And from that, Terrence here gave me I then went to the gym and got to work. the sort of exercises I needed to do and Terrence's own voice is replicated And when I changed the weights or the reps, Terrence's voice automatically updated Plus after my very 1st session which was a to Terrence who changed my workout ready for my Simply put Trainwell (formally known importantly personal service that I have and you can try it out too completely for free We all know that fitness should be For me... the best thing about Trainwell put up stopping me from becoming healthier. So again, if you wanna try out the last 2 weeks for free. Then that link Thanks for listening guys but for And, here we are back when the Smach Team Smach Z - The handheld PC! Play your PC *record skip* except of course... this Notice how the campaign has all this jargon logo are property of Valve and that Smach official Steam machine and that Valve is not you might think that this is all just legal gumf... front and center like this is because The Smach Z identical dubstep-enthused cinematic trailer on Get it! STEAM MACHINE... GAME BOY! No, no, they are because they obviously didn't get it got the name out there before they Yep, Plenty of publications started what looked to be an official STEAM was the Escapist website that received The Escapist has received additional info exact hardware itself is still under wraps, the 4GB RAM, a 32GB built-in memory &quot;SteamBoy won't be as powerful as other announced or PS Vita performance is not comparable it will be possible to play the Now, it's super easy to sit here that were falling for this quite But again, you have to put yourself into Because as stupid as this may sound The much everyone who had even a passing gaming (which was still very popular at Machines. And it's these machines that Because, unlike the Steam Deck... Valve didn't have they simply made an operating system. And then "consoles" that would run it with the only And sure, even though this turned people off originally expecting a stand-alone console (myself included). These Steam Machines were Steam products! They were just So with that in mind, unless you were following mistaken in thinking that it's yet, just another I think this is just a steam I think this is just a steam machine I think this is just a steam machine but portable Also, let's not forget, that it had the same Steam Controller. Although they do add some Magic buttons to the touchpads hahaha remember But hey, regardless of all of that... The Steam calling them... didn't have the correct permission, And that's why they created a campaign... Simply put The SteamBoy WAS the Smach Z in fact that's where the name came mach machine.... That's how you pronounce shouldn't it be called the smach zed anyway thanks to a Thunderclap campaign in those and in case you don't It's a now-defunct social funding platform that to help spread the word of This Kickstarter... sites but instead of a money target they had a If you like what a company, a charity, an and you wanted to help them spread the word. You thing by the time the timer counts down, an get sent from your social media platforms "WOW! #SMACHZ is the first handheld console it's amazing! http://thndr.me/lDxvfa" And then that link would of course It was a crazy and now, like I said used by a load of kickstarters back in the later when the social media giants the end of that... either way it it got eyes on the Kickstarter... but sadly 8 days in and it was becoming painfully obvious had daily updates reminding people that they Before we had an entire wall of excuses talking The goal being too high... The system not coming with the comment section was constantly asking for And the most obvious one... the pledges had All valid reasons for a campaign to close down, I'm sure you will all agree... however Forms exit questionnaire that you start to Several times in said form they bring up whilst hammering home the fact that they For those that don't know Kickstarter requires before going live whilst IndieGoGo does not... just as long as it's documented that the Thankfully for them, they 2016 with the 2nd campaign on Kickstarter And when I say prototype what I actually trying to build something and a load of the system beyond all recognition as they play We get more information about the specs, prototype with the final version being of all is the fact that the device Wait wait wait... what the hell is Not long before the release of this campaign, called Modular technology most well remembered And for those that don't remember what that was. It was essentially the skeleton of something modules that would individually upgrade RAM, and storage. All that good stuff, It was essentially turning your phone for my British subscribers. Let me know And yes, even though the idea of modular simply because. The vast majority of users and the storage... which a lot of phones The Smach Z team still pushed this as Click Advanced Removable Modules)... and the with another company to create the board And guys sorry, Not to break up the ...just so we are all on the same page, previously responsible for the Click ARM which wasn't officially put out by them... One was crowdfunded by IndieGoGo and raised 1,000 units on their own website! aaaaaaaand you Supposedly due to a legal dispute with a company NOTHING to do with ClickARM... hahaha it's the whole Anyway, the reason I bring them up at kinda of people working on the Smach Z "Prototype" So, let's make sure we are all up to date. the campaign (that consisted of 4 game of making a portable steam machine) and the Prototype or as they like to put it the "proof of Oh, and just to make it even more confusing. ImasD eventually renamed ClickARM "Rhombio" which is how I will refer to So, in short the smach team had the idea and the Potential Backers of Smach Z's 2nd campaign could front page of the campaign and in the early We also get to see detailed bios on the More footage of people playing with some more graphically intensive titles as well We get to see Windows working on the system which let's not kid ourselves device like this... in fact they heavily Limited edition zombie-themed We got community-supported updates screen resolution. Very nice... this is Slope's gonna knock a company for taking on backers And finally the stretch goals went the Smach Z getting mobile phone support Which they didn't reach... still, they did reach as opposed to the original 900,000 they 1,293 backers got it up to just under 500,000 And as soon as that Kickstarter was funded an after where the team made an extra $744,710 Now, this is a really confusing the currency is different between crowdfunding figure which is the amount you see thrown around And just to doubly sure, I recently spoke who also previously had a Kickstarter confirmed that the amount you see on came after... should be the TOTAL amount raised In other words, in total, Oliver raised was not a scam. Everything was all if you support like retro action movies and You may even see a tiny cameo with me So, in short, even though I have seen many these 2 figures together... I'm here to on IndieGoGo is in fact the total amount In other words, it's $744,710 raised by a total let's talk about the YouTuber Now, for those that don't know Stop Drop things has a history of calling out scammers... and to be even more specific than that... the gonna be a scam... come on... it's really Well, in Stop Drop and Retro's he is the one that is deserving of the credit for As of July 10th, 2017, his upload shows features Pedro David Pelaez AKA breakdown of the console prototype/ And in that very upload he discovers that breakdowns is a circuit board that has HAHAHA yep, this.... This very old LINX tablet of been a while... includes the same It turns out the folks over at Rhomb.io all their backer's money AND their GRANT the innards of an extremely cheap tablet But that's not all! According to several other updates. now that this device runs Windows. Guess that this now windows powered system would Steam Controller... why... because it's a bloody tablet circuit board duct tapped in the Oh, and this would eventually be confirmed when leaked prototypes found their way online... they're the same picture Around the same time that this video was released, Rhomb.io decided to cut ties with the Smach They explain in fairly broken English here) that the 2 companies butt heads Based on our experience developing/making been able to understand or value the complexity product implies, regarding to the technical after several disagreements and unconnected to Rhomb.io, both parts Yeah, like I said, English isn't their 1st that confirm that they did not receive team could still use their custom chips if they Shortly after this a Reddit Ask Me Anything was scheduled with Pedro the But not before Smach Z responded confirming that directly with the Smach team this time for greater still be a thing, but of course, as everything a delay is most definitely on the cards. Oculus Rift, and TouchTime all got Right let's take a look at Hello Mr. Pelaez, If you could design any device you wanted, a Steam controller, and a Linx So. Was the Smach Z prototype different screen and a steam controller attached? Yeah.... It was a bit of a shit show little got discussed presumably They did eventually answer the claims using the innards of a Linx tablet... they would they use other peoples? And they documents to the Smach team when the final Eeeeeyeah, that's pretty much it. It's pretty obvious to all involved that of that YouTuber Stop Drop &amp; Retro getting under himself outright denied that this was a Linx The Smach team decided to prove the up the board and showing it on their Which just proved that it was a Perhaps they too were unaware it proved that this was nothing more than a a whole heap of yellow tape... and very little else As you would expect Stop Drop was ecstatic he went to Twitter to showcase his findings meltdown kicking off at the YouTuber... off the shelf tablet board although he regardless of where you got it from, And then all of a sudden this team themselves sent out on their own Drop on twitter was forcefully removed by DMCA takedown... FOR A TWEET... OF A With every passing moment, this whole debacle I know I said it already but Stop Drop and information to the masses. And even though nobody hence why you are watching this very video. I this scandal enough as it's super interesting to even more exciting when you discover that Smach Continuing on with our... sadly... true story... The rest of the updates in this video will the best possible vision of what it was wreck at the time. However, unlike previous this one isn't as easy to compile. where included into a sort of secret forum Sure that's fine to a degree, plenty of in this instance each backer was struck with a Agreement. If any backer was found discussing the post would be instantly deleted by instantly banned and unable to get further way to not spread the information too far backers who would take down anyone who And now with the closure of the website that to the best of my ability... this is what went down... As you have no doubt already worked out a few gaming conventions and it would In August of 2016, it was Where the system suffered from some pretty not exactly a graphically intensive game... issues, and that when they moved to an On Kickstarter they stated the following... technical problems that made that only small The problem was with the energy of the device, another trade show in Madrid and we will bring Before then the Previously rumoured NX would be announced in October as the And then at the Madrid trade show, we Z device on their youtube channels and Back over on Kickstarter, we got another was running on the tablet at 60fps which was fans... no proof that this was working of course, And after that, very little happens detail already for the rest of the year. For example, In November you of The 2nd Kickstarter itself was fully funded before moving to IndieGoGo the very next day Again, you know all this, so let's move forward When the Nintendo Switch was released. worried about it as the biggest competitor system that had already launched and as in it had the same form factor as a 3DS, ...As time went on more and more and virtually everyone was singing it's praises... ...Besides the Smach simps obviously... ...and to be fair to them. If the smach z it would have blown GPD WIN I will admit that I prefer the form the only problem was... the Smach Z wasn't fact The GPD Win 2 had already been announced by either way it doesn't matter. Because that the Smach Z was originally And obviously, it wasn't... since the of 2016 to now very few updates were published were locked off for backers. A On top of that the forum wasn't getting being filled up by hardcore ask what people's favorite color shell vroom vrooooooom... in other words... during Fewer and fewer updates continue to pop up backers begin to get more and more worried becomes common knowledge and backers pretty much collectively calling this out as a And just when you think it can't get any Smach Z team paid the rhomb.io team for true... then Smach Z got sent down the garden 80 THOUSAND EUROS!!!! For a cut-up-linx tablet, ...Now look, I'm not trying to claim Rhomb.io did here... and of course, they are at devices themselves... but gimme 80K and I reckon we really only have Smach Z's word on this.... But and it just goes to show that this whole project bodged together by a company that really should Also, before moving on it's worth pointing invoices to the company... which again, when it comes to this as the last time Honestly, I don't have the answer here, it doesn't change the end result And finally, before moving on, notice from my understanding a legal battle was this point resulting in Smach Z losing if this is true. Then Rhomb.io really are just Smach Z. They knew they had a bunch of guys that tonne of crowdfunded money behind them? They took less than what was expected of them... hence why They also confirm this Moving into December, It's leaked in shipping date is now May of 2018 and an update either on the Kickstarter as a reason Rhomb.io left was because of the Uh Oh, it's another year and STILL no Smach to rub even more salt into the wounds because ...But, It is Indiegogo after all.. like at times regarding prototypes Only 10 days later a non-sponsored review popped up on arguably the biggest tech He confirms that even though the GPD WIN 2 modern triple AAA games, it can play them, but more than capable at running emulators and less honest is exactly what you would expect. this size at this point in time can do. But of course, it's not quite as good as what with all of these delays, the In February the Smach Z team announced a custom Ryzen V1000 embedded processors for the A week or so later The Smach team tried that the final product would be And finally, we get another leak from date will be May for backers and at the We get to see a lovely animated video go that shows the Smach Z running some pretty this is all CGI but still, it gives AMD chips allow it to be advertised It's then leaked in the forums that the And that the prototype will be shown in April pre-orders open up later in March as the whopping $699... Still, don't forget that Deck-like machine, and publications if it worked it would still be well Anyway, Remember the GPD WIN 2... sorry Smach else that's worth being bought up here is not got shipped out, and got overall positive reviews... updates. Insane amount to be quite frank that its release. A prime example of how you should when you follow as many campaigns as I the process into an art form, and the GPD are able to pull it off like this... Yep, the very same month backers started was launched... and guess what that was shipped we got closer to the point where new reputable And look, I'm not gonna waste your time video as there is quite frankly a stupid this must have been for the Smach backers their blind support with every other Moving into June we get to see The trailer ever on the 1st day of e3 promoting the Smach Z team ever put out it's Anyway here we are guys... e3 2018... the event where except of course we didn't... as it wasn't even at YouTubers, bloggers, and news folk being invited Now. most of these people who covered the after all it was a handheld that was playing Thankfully we did have a couple of individuals on site who were able to spot One of those people was Michael Quesada who have now collected $500,000 through various means all they had to show for that was this new-fangled I'm sorry what? Why would you even turn up and a screen connected to a laptop that has the ripped off steam controller talking to a It's the most blatant obvious fakery going. It's worth checking out his video in full and yes, auto-generated subtitles are available As he goes into detail about how they tried to being that it's still gonna be cheaper than 5 full-priced because cheap Steam games They also try to convince him that it's going this was before the PS5 release) due to the Or what about the part where they try to convince if you wanna upgrade the CPU, the GPU, and you will need to upgrade the It's all so bogus and you really mathematical gymnastics to make sense of any of it Thankfully for them, the Spanish the English-speaking ones Moving into August we get a big the head honcho at the company who fights back about the investors that What's the problem here then? Well, latest discovery. Smach Z's real parent company ...this isn't exactly a big revelation that did come up here was that the the main investor that the Smach team In other words... this isn't it's the president of the company. It's a by the Smach team who in this update claim that actual president himself and therefore it's all As documents prove that yes... he is the bloody just... the president hahaha shout out to It also states that several other grants have been which I suppose does make sense going by the just hope that these government officials also As we move into September we got to see the At the event, the unit that was promised without the laptop this time... simply the blog Boiling Stream which is run Gave an update sharing his thoughts on Sadly for him the machine was not functional screen. but, hey he liked what he held while I am still cautious about meeting the guys behind the project in is probably not a scam but a genuine project look for more tangibles demos in the next They had a unit, but it didn't turn on, on top of Supposedly this was due to an error to the screen. Either way, it doesn't matter have taken a wood carving of the console later that month the smach z team started paying for Google ads in order to get more And we get reports that the Smach Z will 2018... don't forget you can pre-order your own time... uneducated news publications all over where Doh! In November we finally got confirmation that And then at the the beginning of 2019, production. But we get to see yet another filled with dubstep-enthused music this So, how is this fake exactly, well, Dan here over the shoulder style video... finally. He is nay sayers. No edits, no bullshit, And to further confirm that this isn't some a cut-up controller sending a signal to a computer back? He goes to the Windows task bar to show No weird streaming at play here right?. Well, Ya see, when he goes to the wifi settings 1stly, why does a system like 2ndly the icon at the bottom of the screen He then turns it off Before the screen conveniently blurs And you tell me.... Does it look like it goes back on before refocusing... cos it sure Now, none of this confirms either way what bizarre behavior to prove something... that Moving into February the Smach Z team 2019 Devices will start being produced and that A couple of days later we get to see videos of the system playing some more And the following month we get to those Smach Forums informing backers been slightly pushed back with the new Strangely enough, those officially uploaded a couple of months ago... might have just was seen in public again at E3 2019 and were rather sluggish for higher-end However, later that month in a surprising turn of a proper test unit. To date, this is the only Now, similar to other projects I have Phawx has removed this video and other similar now no longer ever gonna get released and he However, the original unboxing has been 1st and only review is that it's still very As an example, some of the buttons like didn't function. The same goes for the it should but it's not connected to the Regardless, Phawx gave a fairly positive include some 3D MARK test results and The problem was that to get to this point the system way more than your average user unless they Of course, doing all this may appeal to some, regardless it was still not finished and as day Phawx is still the only person in the world A month later and the device was shown off again E3 and reports from backers who got to play these reports have been shared by the Smach to be mostly positive. And in all fairness, I was Well except for the systems shutting Supposedly this was due to the system powerful enough to look after the long play event... this was long predicted by the critics Remember that article from the blog The Boiling last year's Tokyo Game Show. the game show that Well, he's back at Tokyo Game Show 2019 and boy oh We can finally put to rest the idea that the Smach I am glad to say that those people because this time around they had a and I had it in my own hands. He also confirmed that after speaking stated that Backers will start to get their Their ya go... that will shut up the naysayers... the smach team obviously do give A couple of days later Smach Z themselves However, ignore all that as it's time for some interview Daniel Fernandez who confirmed And look, before carrying on. I just wanna single example that I can find of the release unprofessional, they are doing a fine job how painful it must have been to be a backer. are coming from random websites who managed to the discord and the forum were hardly backers constantly looking for new new dates with each other. It really was Yep, because 9 days later another that the device would be shipped to Again, this is NOT an official update, that Backers were furious! sharing this spread another backer shared a private days earlier that still confirmed it would be This confusion continues on Discord as also confirms that the handhelds will be shipped then indiegogo backers, then indiegogo preorders Errrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrr, backers were also the location of their headquarters... that Yet another interview confirms that backers specifically and everyone else will they will be sent out before the end of the As you would expect this resulted in the backers they wouldn't get an update let alone the system on the 31st December, they got one... which obviously delayed Thankfully some backers that were CONSTANTLY begging to get their asking for an absurd amount of banking And as great as this sounds it was more than angry backers. As you know the only real via the locked-off forums. Turns out if you then your access to these forums would be way to get updates on the system or your pray you was one of the lucky few that you waited you were now sitting in the Another interview pops up which units from I don't even know how long We also get confirmation that the company and a closed 10 million euro budget Which is great if it's true... but few days later It's discovered that new job This is troublesome as not long finished on the Smach Z considering But the wording on the Job listing is word for in October the previous year after Carlos This potentially proves that his role had Obviously, a leaked update comes from applications and Letting backers know that they was already reported to be shipping And with it being the last day They also offer the opportunity to Ok, this isn't really an update... but this 1 comment really does hit home how I Have emailed but i'll post it here too. being in my 20's to now my 30's and life's time for video games anymore much less one other startups are anything to go by will either The Spanish podcast Vandall and after testing it and speaking with Their opinion is that the device time it's taken to get the system out when they tested 2016's Doom, According to them The analogue triggers clicked and the whole L1 and R1 buttons were simply uncomfortable ripped up for its prototype and of course was And as for Smach Z's new version of Rhomb.io's that upgrades will require users to Z company in order to upgrade components Oh my gawd, this is such a joke! Finally, they once again pushed that 2,500 unit figure confirming backers will When exactly? Well, it's confirmed in yet out in a matter of months.... So much for an angry backer who was a big supporter in the Smach team that shows that the device will require the handheld molding to during COV... as well as the recent Chinese new Now obviously, this molding issue 1stly, how was it not spotted before? should really only be an issue in a it would have been a design flaw that could have In other words, and I'm sure this will come to the The system is so delayed at this point that the device with the minor defect as it is... and Then on April Fools Day 2020, we they have decided to take a 2-week it's a kickscammers greatest excuse... the COV that they are unable to provide refunds Desperate backers waiting on an they notice that the main Smach Z website had Happy 3 years late everybody Another pointless update is sent out to backers in with zero updates on shipping and giving vague There is literally nothing of note here at all!... Thankfully it is confirmed by a few some refunds are starting to get not And then in July, it was leaked on Discord backers that the plastics have finally come meaning that they finally start We get another leaked DM from an eager is organizing a new production and Later in August, it was discovered $10 preorder reserve to only should stop those annoying credit Sadly not everyone was lucky enough to get their get responses claiming that the Smach Z team and that they would just have to wait until the ability to issue anymore... supposedly in the that a new official delivery date. Honestly, News dwindles down to practically nothing and all responses to emails and comments Yep, welcome to 2021 when backers discovered a notebook check news site. It reported on the forced to deal with for the best part of half a article released by the same site explains that let them know that final units are shipping soon, site the ability to email over any questions Notebook check then did that very thing... and Noticing that backers are getting more an update apologizing that no new updates have once again they blame COV for these delays their standard which if you remember they had got fixed!... look if you wanna be a Either way, they apparently still need to be So, in order to get these done as to bring the molds to Spain so eye on things. They also showed off the Which finally brings us to May 2021! The year or so by this point and therefore get an update from the company... However, Today we have tough news to share with you, and as possible from the very first paragraph: we that was sustaining this project and, as a Yep, the time was up for the Smach Z The update goes into detail about how ever in Spain supposedly (not sure you can They also continue to blame COV... as ya do! And finally, they had issues with the charger and the batteries overheating on We are all well aware that the scope of way more than we anticipated. The project scammed by ImasD (the lawsuit is still ongoing), assume command of the project, with the handicap We know we have failed, over and over, to commit to the communication goals we We understand that from your point we can only say that we did all we could We will continue to inform you about the and possible solutions. Please, feel you may have to save the project. we have achieved to share some of Even more than ever: thank you all for SMACH Team. And that was the last we ever heard of them! Until they showed up a year later Look, if you want my opinion on Thoughts if you will as to whether Honestly, it really does depend For me... yes 100% it was a scam! The only time it wasn't a scam was when one of be cool if someone made a portable steam machine" But of course, they decided to rip off that and worst of all pretend to know These are game developers, not hardware designers. Of course, they are not fully to blame, relationship between The Smach team are fully deserving of plenty of the Z up the garden path before Smach Z had the And of course, since then it's been lie dangling the electronic carrot in front close followed by it's coming next month... on So yes, with all of that information, I they simply were not being honest. it may not that that wasn't the intention But at the end of the day, from the beginning final years where they constantly kicked the can Happen. And most damming of all, silencing how long can you the backer hold It probably didn't start out as a scam" you have gotta question whether