Competitions can be nerve-wracking. The more we live up to the day on which we What if I perform badly? What if something goes wrong? An Olympic swimmer trains thousands of hours, A musician practices for days on end, just And a student practices a speech in front moment in front of the audience. When all their efforts come down to one defining of the need to succeed? This video expands on a Taoist story that's that it generates. Is it because we're trying too hard? If so, how can we win without trying? Taoist sage Zhuangzi was a keen observer of He figured out that the burden of the future in the present moment. To illustrate this, he tells us a simile about When you're an archer, and you shoot simply But if you shoot for a small prize, you begin And if you're competing for gold, you become Zhuangzi tells us that our skills, thus the same in all three situations. But, somehow, we let different circumstances Let's analyze this story to show how this When we play for fun, winning or losing doesn't This means that we aren't burdened by possible When we shoot some balls simply to have a much, as we're not competing. And practicing a speech in front of the mirror damaging our reputation, because there is When there's nothing on the line, there's there's no fear that sabotages our performance. When burdens like 'trying to win in a conceptual a horrible failure from the past' are absent, That's why, in many cases, the best speeches soccer goals are made on the practice field, outside the studio and far away from the stage. But suddenly, there are consequences tied By performing well, you might be able to obtain And within the game of human civilization, These prizes represent symbols of success and, in some cases, an opportunity to monetize Winning could lead to becoming rich and famous. Losing, however, could result in falling out of a career, and losing the chance of gaining So, there's a lot at stake. And because of this, a desire for winning until we conclude: losing in no option. Feeling the necessity to win has a positive make sacrifices. Thus, necessity is a breeding ground for success. However, necessity can also become a burden In the case of the archer: the prospect of With the possibility of winning gold, also or 'having blown the chance of winning it'. His thoughts about a potential loss produce When we're too focused on winning and losing, Our skill is still the same, but the mind skill from unfolding. In such situations, we find ourselves not We might even start to believe that we've But this isn't the case: it's our mind When our thoughts about the past and future to the point that we become 'one with the A great example of this is a dog catching When the dog sees you throwing the ball, it it, without even thinking about landing, as It doesn't act because of a prize. It acts for the sake of acting. Catching a ball is part of the dog's nature. However, we are not dogs. We're humans and our nature is different. We can plan for the future in detail, and We're often expected to perform our best But even then, we can still influence what Do we let the possibility of winning a gold Or do we let this desire fade into the background, The less we care about the results, the less This applies very much to creative work as When creating just for fun, it's an easy But when we're obsessed with getting views, our creations as failures and successes, we'll The need for success, the desire for fame, the overall performance of a content creator. Thus, when there's something on the line, once was a joyful pastime, could become a Worrying about the results obstructs our ability This is detrimental, as our best performances This immersion is known as the 'flow state'. In this state a swimmer forgets the water, the movement of her brush. Within that moment, they don't try to win obtaining a prize; they have switched off their very 'being' to the act. And that's key. Just do it. Thank you for watching.