I get freaked out by...a lot of stuff these You know. The world, generally. Entropy. The prospect of going outside. Sometimes I just need a mental reset button, bring me back to zero. A systems diagnostic check. And the thing is, I actually have that button. Watch, I'll show you. Whewwwwww. It's like entering a decompression chamber. Everything stressful is, if temporarily, blown synth. In an article for Laced Records, Thomas Quillfeldt it does! It's simultaneously mournful and reassuring, It feels...safe. This feeling is appropriate, as many of you The track is called Serenity, it's by composer 4- one of the most successful, and influential Also it has by far the most suplexes per minute sayin! Just sayin!). Serenity is actually a part of a grand Resident Scrounging ammo, dodging zombies, trying to in your inventory at the same time, it's And that's why the games, since the very save room. Take a breath, save your game, get everything And, since the very first Resident Evil, these of a hurricane. You aren't safe permanently. At some point, some point soon, you're going undead and puzzles and not nearly enough shotgun But for a few precious seconds, you're safe. This continued throughout the series; even they had something like a save theme. It speaks to a core design ethos- it can't Ya need to give players a minute to rest. And that brings us to Resident Evil 4, also Now I know that people say this game isn't as your fixed-camera limited-ink-roll spooks, boy, I was tense. This opening fight in the village has the and it wildly succeeds. After the near misses and last-second headshots literally trembling (again, I was 13). Resident Evil 4 may not be the lurking-dread making you feel on-edge, like you're just On my umpteenth playthrough, I can game the my first, I found the flow of combat precarious On my umpteenth playthrough, I know which I know when I need to be on guard. On my first though? No security! I had no idea where ganados might pop up, Lakes aren't safe. Lamps aren't safe. Nothing is. This all culminates in a fight against "El you right into the wall with a tree trunk Again, it's not keep-me-up-at-night scary, And so to finish that fight, and then walk dock and hear...this...it's a genuinely It communicates, through those synthy whale Sure, you're in the eye of the storm, but I adore this series tradition. One of my favorite parts is how the theme simple synths of the first couple, to the are changed and updated in the remakes, all sounds like a decaying acoustic deconstruction It's brilliant. I also find it fascinating that the contrast and bouncy. Happy music is just distorted by the scares. Instead, it's just a return to something by the characters in these traumatic situations- uhh man. Resident Evil isn't the only series that's And here's where things get cool, because strangely beautiful tracks I've heard in Is it because these games are just really Well yeah. But I think there's a throughline here too, makes the scary stuff more scary." There's this kind of...longing, present A desire to return to something that maybe Look okay this is all getting very poetic mouth is, and by money I mean "foggy nightmareville," I mean, have we ever been spoiled for choice Hill games? There's Promise and its reprise, everyone's too intricate to allow a full descent into There's the unsettlingly motivated "Rain even appear in Silent Hill 3, but is on the it understands the anxieties of these characters There's the incredible "Not Tomorrow," melancholy, maybe tinged with hopefulness, Silent Hill's music frequently makes the they undercut themselves to achieve a greater more (and a choice I've already talked about But my favorite is what Not Tomorrow morphs of Laura. It still blows my mind that this song is from It is so many things. My friend Henry noted that it almost feels this acoustic base of guitar and strings drowning game's sound. But rather than these styles conflicting, bizarre combination of the original Not Tomorrow It gets the Silent Hill sound, it walks that It's definitely got spooky vibes, but it And not in the way where it seems like it's because that almost never works. Just in the way where this is like, a song That longing feeling though, the one I mentioned That's here in spades. This is probably not an experience shared this song, the alternative-bordering-on-emo, for me. Music-analyzer extraordinaire Polyphonic hit "It feels like something that would play Doesn't it feel like that's exactly the One of the false and faded glory of high school night of our lives"? The entire game is framed around a trip back weekend he had with his wife, back when their was just a speck on the horizon. When this game was made, 20 years ago, I'm different connotation. But I, like James, can only see things through This song, like the entire town, is a surprise It's no surprise that Akira Yamaoka scored He gets this series dude. He has helped define its essence. Music brings those subtextual feelings to It's why I use it in every minute of my one genre. But it has a special power in horror, maybe maybe because the simple act of being afraid Fearing something means that, even for a couple And while some horror uses that power to just, leveraged in a different direction- using into something even more compelling. The game Amnesia: The Dark Descent is familiar The horror game that popularized the "no the ~scariest game ever,~ the game that launched A lot of people have also heard of the sequel; names. AMNESIA: A MACHINE FOR PIGS But I rarely, if ever, hear this game talked There are vanishingly few monster chases in of the first, and it's also just...really I mean, the subtitle is A Machine for Pigs. It does not make itself easy to parse. The game takes place at the very end of 1899. You play as Oswald Mandus, a dude who wakes As you wander around your spooky house that that his children are stuck in the bowels depths to find them. The "Machine for Pigs" part comes into a bit of a Jekyll and Hyde thing going on. Oswald, good ol Ozzie, reliably amnesiated, his other half- Mandus. The dude-stick with me here- took a trip to a "stone egg." That stone egg showed him a vision of the went full Doomer, plunging all his resources of humanity because complete annihilation Also he killed his own children as a sacrifice be kinder than them dying in World War 1. Wooooooooof. (also the machine turns people into pigs. Humans are the pigs, but also...pigs are the That's the name. A Machine for Pigs is what Mandus creates, We are all pigs) It is a weird, fascinating game, one that that its own predecessor helped create. In case you didn't get this from the paragraph World War 1, it's a game about psychological far more often than like, big pig dudes. Oh but there's another thing I didn't Jessica Freakin Curry. For those who don't know, Jessica Curry Room, and is basically a rock star of video Dear Esther's remarkable score was all her Gone to the Rapture, which I can't play me when I say it is maybe the most beautiful Ever? It's on spotify go listen to it please. But in between those two games, she also wrote miss the opportunity to make some truly bone-chilling But, because she's Jessica Curry, it also This song, titled "Mandus," plays over the core of the giant machine you've been A voice pleads with you to not turn off the century will be, and now it's not your Jekyll enough to be utterly horrified by the future. "A house of skulls in the jungle. The innocent, the innocent, Mandus, trod and murdered and enslaved. This is your coming century! They will eat them Mandus, they will make And given the content of this monologue, it grim. Dead kids! Mustard Gas! Nuclear Bombs! But instead you have this delicate series a vocal track that both just race up and down Mandus and the machine have been dreading. And it's not victorious, it's not a defeat in the twentieth century does come to pass, sense of sheer inevitability, and it's an How do you sell a finale in which the character's of the World Wars and mass starvation and of, but by doing so also ensuring...humanity? What does that sound like?? But it's almost silly to ask these questions, Because Jessica Curry nailed it, as she always We have Mandus, as well as the following song, dark. At this point you might just be thinking "great, and you're right I do like pretty songs, some nice sounding music in your horror game In The Evil Within, a game directed by Resident same safe room trick as Resident Evil. No enemies, take a breath, inject some green But the game indicates it, not with moody de Lune. Virtually every time you hear this song, you a broken mirror, the song should hit that Resident Evils. And it's...fine? I'm certainly not here to throw shade at But it doesn't stir the same feelings within have the same weight as those synth-whales The thing is, Clair de Lune isn't much beyond It doesn't really hit that nostalgia center than the one we're in. And I'm criticizing The Evil Within, a game a game that does this exceptionally well. You know what? A game that does almost everything exceptionally Hell, it deserves its own titlecard. Flip the switch, here we go. The Evil Within 2, still helmed by Shinji not particularly compelling protagonist, released 25% as many copies. It also knocked my freakin socks off. This game has style. There are so many deliberate choices here, indulgent and twin peaks-y coffee drinking, wight doesn't go down with a simple stealth Evil Within 2 feels like exactly the game and deserves to be played. Now I'm about to spoil the story, so...do Describing every plot twist in Evil Within not even gonna try. Here's the broadest possible overview: There's an evil corporation that controls lie in a bathtub and connect your brain to They want to make this VR world...more powerful...so I dunno it's not important. Point is, you're in this VR horror world. To make the horror world work, the evil corporation be like, the base of it. And that person ends up being Sebastian's and pretend she died in a house fire. Sebastian is devastated over the loss of his VR world. Still with me? No? That's okay, it- well it's not that important Sebastian's wife, Myra, is obsessed with and was instead captured by a shadowy organization. She joins that organization and goes inside her daughter, but when she gets there, she decides that both she and her daughter should up and shoots her corrupted form in the...head? question mark? a bunch of times and that brings Sebastian should take their daughter and go, VR horror world from the inside. On paper, it's...it's not Hamlet. The first game had a similarly convoluted without really caring about any of the characters, systems and world design and setpieces, I And then I reached the last level. I've already told you what happens here- orange goop a bunch and then she becomes good But here's what I didn't tell you. Chapter 16, "In Limbo," happens in this and reducing back to this ashy nothingness. After a point, there's no combat, there's jumping out and clawing you. It's just this long walk to your house on many times in dreams and nightmares, a house over. And all the while, this slow walk up this It's called "Making Your Way Home" by And I mean...good lord. There is some of Serenity here from Resident calm. I said Serenity felt like a return to zero, the level is even called "In Limbo." But instead, there's more- these strings and the real just like Laura's Theme. And for the first time in the game, I felt Walking up this hill, towards his house that who he thought was dead and his wife who he conflict here. There is a world where he just stays in this life he resigned to being lost years ago. There's a world where he can go back to But it's false. And so instead, this walk up to his house and the life he once thought he'd live, The game knows how powerful this song is, it. Throughout the game, like the first, you've police station, where you level up and save last level, that police station has just crashed Instead of zooming to it through a mirror, And instead of temporarily escaping the outside I want to emphasize this again; for dozens physically separate. It's been the escape, it's been the safe It is not until the very end that it is thrust remnant of Sebastian's past that he'll "When this is all over, you won't need "Because this will be over? Or because I'll be dead?" "The answer is the same either way." Is this all there in the text? I guess. But it is entirely because of the music that A direct confrontation with your longing for dreams and loss that lives there, while simultaneously And what's even better, what drives this is that replaying the game I realized this It's literally there for the titlecard!! With that music comes that emotional weight. With that music comes that longing. It is a song that makes the entire game better. I recognize that we've gotten away from When I started writing this, I wanted to find songs were so necessary to creating the atmosphere I do think there's something there- that known, and these songs reflect the futility back what's already happened. But I think there's something simpler, more These songs transcend genre, because people me feel is just...connection, and empathy, game thing or even a story thing, that's