- What if the next big technology was actually a really old technology? The processors in your They think in ones and zeros. But this processor thinks in waves. This is an analog processor, and it might allow us to from the ground up. Oh wow, it can cut through anything. - For the last few decades, digital computing has always And it became very easy to build applications. But all of the information in And so what analog is understand and potentially from that data in its rawest form. - But just like the digital it can still be programmed with software, and that's kind of a big deal. - Imagine being able to build new devices that use AI and machine but yet, use 1/1000 of from a digital perspective. And so you get all those the power, the efficiency, the accuracy- but now you can use a software - Does all processing need to be digital? How will analog processors and interact with us? This is &quot;Hard Reset,&quot; a series about rebuilding Hey, everyone. Real quick, we're trying This is a quick message about our sponsor for this episode, BetterHelp. Now, I wanna make sure will never take sponsorship like Aspinity, which is in this episode. But sponsorships from other will make it easier for we know you will love. And BetterHelp is a company Frankly, at &quot;Hard Reset,&quot; we're always asking ourselves What are the assumptions that we should rethink? And personally, I think we need to rethink our cultural Your mental health is super important- and it's something worth taking care of. I'm someone who has and many of my dearest and I think we can all agree have been pretty wild. And one of the things I is that it's totally normal from time to time. And just knowing that has helped make things BetterHelp's mission is to and more accessible. Basically, it's an online service that matches you up with therapists based on your preferences BetterHelp makes it easy for towards improving your mental health. It's easy to do, and it's worth doing. Taking care of your mental It's vital to making that is fulfilling and satisfying for you. If you do decide to try out BetterHelp, you can get 10% off your first month by going to betterhelp.com/freethink. Okay, back to nerding out The first computers ever made were analog. Think Ancient Greece. and in the 19th century, we that calculated how things over time or solve differential equations. We met the folks from Aspinity to learn about analog processors. - Analog has not gone away. I mean, every iPhone uses and analog to transmit So analog has always been there, but it's bene relegated to - Analog processors were surpassed by digital processors, mainly because digital could and they could be This made them far more But what about a software-programmable Well, that's what this is. - The challenge with when you put a certain input in, for the same circuit you might get a slightly different output. And we call that 'voltage offset.' So 2.1 and 1.9 aren't exactly the same. You want it to be two. And Aspinity has solved a major hurdle, and through our software, we're able to make fine-tune adjustments so that that chip gets a 2 at the output, this chip gets a 2 at the output. But we also solved a key problem and how easy it is to use. And so we're now able to from Aspinity in the same - That means the signals that these chips are to be converted into ones and zeros- they can just go straight in. And you can write the about how to interpret those signals. That's sorta huge. But don't take my word for it. Jared here has a little more insight as a product designer at - Aspinity has slayed a dragon here, and I've been going like the history of We will do digital. We will go binary. Turns out that all along, analog has been slowly creeping along. Now that we've solved the stability and programmability issues we're gonna see a quick reset to the entire architecture of computing. - Right now, we spend tons of energy breaking analog signals just so that our computers And by tons of energy, Think about all the sensors in your phone, your house, your car, at work. Most of them collect analog signals that have to be converted and usually back into analog signals so that we can hear them or see them. - We expect 30 billion of the decade. Every one of these will and it takes tremendous amounts of energy to have these always on computing. - All that energy we spend converting signals adds up. In fact, the energy consumption is rising faster than the rate that's a problem. - It allows these products So we can really understand whether the data is relevant or not. And then that drives everything after that to take advantage of that efficiency. - This technology isn't meant to replace digital computers, but it could mean we use - We can still have a and digital locally, but we wanna be able to use that analog as your always-on computing as necessary or wake up and send data to the cloud as necessary. - Think of it this way: How often do you change the batteries in your smart TV's remote control? Well, even those batteries are by the digital processors for your voice to command them. - And all this is just &quot;Hey TV, I wanna watch a rom-com - You really can't make it five minutes into a conversation in Austin without someone bringing - 'All right, all right, all right. - Oh Christ. - How you doin'?' - Anyway- - With analog computing, it for that wake word that's never doing analog-digital conversion, and then it can wake up to do the work of the request. - That means that same remote control could last 10 or even 100 times or you could just use and get the same functionality. - And you can virtually This is a glass break detector. This also is for automotive - Right. So you can potentially and decision tree that can say, &quot;That was glass breaking. That's a window. This is a car window, And then based on whether of those priority glass breaks, it can send that signal which communicates via I'm guessing? Once we make the decision, we - Right. a call center in some cases, - Hey, Siri, the glass is broken. You can't fool it. - You wanna hold it? I'll see what happens. All right. What if I'm talking Now does it filter out? So here I'm gonna talk. I'm gonna say, this is &quot;Hard Reset,&quot; a series about, wow, that really. - Yeah. that it could differentiate 'cause a lotta people say my voice sounds like breaking glass. - It may not be a major but all these little things where you're using energy - Where this really starts isn't your remote control. It's your pipes, your solar - On a piece of equipment like a stacker, which is one of those conveyor and makes piles and there's of a half a million of 'em and just, if you have a chip on battery power with enough to listen to a vibration and determine that it's not just a vibration, but the type that indicates and then you could use that information to find out what it would When you think about the whole system, it's not just that the it's that because it uses less power, it creates a new computing architecture where we can get more value, the insights, with less resources. - Monitoring all these would be impractical. But with analog systems, it So, picture a scenario where the activity of digital computers. This would mean better sensing in places where it can make a difference. And of course, all the can be done with far less we currently use. You probably won't ever Some things, like audio devices, That would probably be music to the ears of your vinyl-loving friend. But most implementations the best strengths of analog and digital. For example, heart monitoring is perfect for analog computers. Our heartbeat is an analog signal. And with power-efficient, tiny sensors, more people could be If the analog portion it can wake up the digital component that communicates with the cloud or contacts a health care provider. - Once you have these kinda chip sets, you're gonna see an to create new kinds of analog sensors. This would allow me to around voice computing in the home, because I could look at the and the stove wouldn't turn on because I wasn't looking at it. - It's this idea of, it'll be of all of these insight-gathering devices that are very specific to you. And there's no middleman or no middleman that's it can come to you. - We're constantly relying on more and more intelligent devices in our lives. But analog intelligence those devices understand us.