- You can never see (bell dings) Imagine you trap your and blast him off towards a black hole. He looks back at you shaking As he zooms in, gravity gets stronger, so you would expect him to speed up, but that is not what you see. Instead, the rocket ship Not only that, he also appears to be shaking his fist slower and slower. That's because from your perspective, his time is slowing down at the very instant when he the point beyond which he and his rocket ship do not disappear, instead, they seem to stop frozen in time. The light from the spaceship until it completely fades from view. This is how any object would look crossing the event horizon. Light is still coming from it's just too redshifted to see, but if you could see that light, then in theory you would see everything that has ever fallen into the black hole frozen on its horizon, including but in practice, photons are so there will be a last photon and therefore these images - This is just one of the strange results that comes outta the general our current best theory of gravity. The first solution of Einstein's equations predicted not only black holes, but also their opposite, white holes. It also implied the existence and even possibly a way This is a video about the white holes, and wormholes. - The general theory of relativity arose at least in part in Newtonian gravity. In the 1600s Isaac Newton contemplated how an apple how the moon orbits the earth and he concluded that must attract every other, but Newton was troubled by his own theory. How could masses separated apply a force on each other? He wrote, &quot;That one body may through a vacuum without the is to me, so great and who has a competent faculty of thinking could ever fall into it.&quot; One man who definitely had a was Albert Einstein and he figured out how gravity is mediated. Bodies do not exert forces Instead, a mass like the in its immediate vicinity. This, then curves the spacetime around it and so on all the way to the earth. So the earth orbits the earth is passing through is curved. Masses are affected by the local curvature of spacetime, so no action Mathematically, this is described by Einstein's field equations. Can you write down the - This was the the result of after special relativity and essentially what we've on one side it says, tell me about the distribution The other side tells you of spacetime is from that distribution of matter and energy It looks like, oh, this is But it's not really one equation. It's a family of equations and they're coupled equations, so and they are differential equations, so it means that there are integrals that have to be done, da, da da. So there's a whole bunch of to solve the field equations. To see what a solution to these we need a tool to understand spacetime. So imagine your floating A flash of light goes off above your head and spreads out in all directions. Now your entire future, anything that can and will ever happen to you because the only way to get out of it would be to travel faster than light. In two dimensions, this bubble If we allow time to run up the screen and take snapshots at regular intervals, then this light bubble traces out a cone, your future light cone. By convention, the axes are always travel at 45 degrees. This cone reveals the that you can ever hope Now imagine that instead above your head, those photons from all corners of the universe and they met at that instant and then continued traveling on in their separate directions. Well, in that case then into the past, these photons also reveal a light cone, your past light cone. Only events that happened inside this cone could have affected you We can simplify this diagram even further by plotting just one spatial This is the spacetime If you want to measure how far apart two events are in spacetime, the spacetime interval. The interval squared is plus dx squared, since spacetime is flat, the geometry is the same everywhere and so this formula holds which makes it really easy between any two events, but around a mass, spacetime is curved and the equation to take into This is what solutions to They tell you how spacetime curves and how to measure the in that curved geometry. Einstein published his equations in 1915 during the First World War, but he couldn't find an exact solution. Luckily, a copy of his paper made its way to the eastern front where stationed there was one of of the time, Karl Schwarzschild. Despite being 41 years to calculate artillery At least until a greater how to solve Einstein's field equations. Schwarzschild did the and imagined the simplest an eternal static universe except a single spherically This mass was electrically Since this was the only he measured everything relative to this center of this mass. So r is the radius and theta For his time coordinate, he by someone far away from the mass, where spacetime is essentially flat. Using this approach, non-trivial solution to which nowadays we write like this. This Schwarzschild metric outside of the mass. It's pretty simple and far away from the mass but as you get closer and closer to it, spacetime becomes more and more curved, it attracts objects in (gunshots firing) Schwarzschild sent his concluding with, &quot;The war in spite of the heavy gunfire to allow me to get away from it all and take this walk in Einstein replied, &quot;I have read your paper with the utmost interest, that one could formulate the in such a simple way.&quot; But what seemed at first quite simple, soon became more complicated. Shortly after Schwarzschild people noticed two problem spots. At the center of the this term is divided by zero, and therefore this equation breaks down and it can no longer describe This is what's called a singularity. Maybe that point could be excused, because it's in the middle of the mass, but there's another at a special distance from the center known as the Schwarzschild So there is a second singularity. Well, at the Schwarzschild radius, the spacetime curvature becomes so steep that the escape velocity, the to leave there is the speed of light and that would mean that inside nothing, not even light So you'd have this dark object that swallows up matter and light, a black hole, if you will, but most scientists doubted because it would require a lot of mass to collapse down into a tiny space. How could that possibly ever happen? (thrilling music) Astronomers at the time were studying what happens at the end of a star's life. During its lifetime the inward by the outward radiation pressure created by the energy released but when the fuel runs out, So gravity pulls all the star Most astronomers believed would hold it up and in 1926, Ralph Fowler came up with Pauli's exclusion principles states that, &quot;Fermions like electrons so as matter gets pushed the electrons each occupy but Heisenberg's uncertainty &quot;You can't know the position with absolute certainty, more and more constrained in space, the uncertainty in their momentum, and hence their velocity must go up.&quot; So the more a star is compressed, the faster electrons will wiggle around and that creates an outward pressure. This electron degeneracy from collapsing completely. Instead, it would form a white dwarf with the density much and remarkably enough that fit this description. One of them was Sirius B. But the relief from this Four years later, 19-year-old traveled by boat to England and Arthur Eddington, one of of the time. During his voyage, Chandrasekhar realized that electron degeneracy Electrons can wiggle faster and faster, but only up to the speed of light. That means this effect up to a certain mass, Beyond this, Chandrasekhar believed, not even electron de degeneracy pressure could prevent a star from collapsing, but Eddington was not impressed. He publicly blasted Chandrasekhar saying, &quot;There should be a law of nature to prevent a star from and indeed scientists did discover a way that stars heavier than could support themselves. When a star collapses electrons and protons fuse together to form neutrinos and neutrons. These neutrons are also fermions, but with nearly 2000 times their degeneracy pressure So this is what holds up neutron stars. There was this conviction among scientists that even if we didn't know the mechanism, something would prevent into a single point and because black holes were just The big blow to this belief when Jay Robert Oppenheimer found that neutron stars Shortly after Oppenheimer showed that for the heaviest stars, there is nothing left to save they wrote, &quot;This contraction but Einstein still couldn't believe it. Oppenheimer was saying that but when Einstein looked at the math, he found that time freezes on the horizon. So it seemed like which suggested that either there's something we don't understand or that black holes can't exist, (star explodes) but Oppenheimer offered a He said to an outside observer, you could never see anything go in, but if you were traveling you wouldn't notice anything unusual and you'd go right past it So how is this possible? We need a spacetime On the left is the The dotted line at r equals Since the black hole doesn't move, these lines go straight up in time. Now let's see how ingoing in this curved geometry. When you're really far away, the future light cones are but as you get closer to the horizon, the light cones get narrower and narrower, until right at the event horizon, they're so narrow that and inside the horizon, the but something strange happens - They fall in, but they they actually asymptote to that value as time goes to infinity, but they don't end at infinity, right? Mathematically they are and they're traveling in this direction and this bothered a lot of people, this bothered people like Einstein, because he looked at &quot;well, if nothing can cross then how could there be black holes? How could black holes even form?&quot; - So what is going on here? Well, what's important to recognize is that this diagram is a projection. It's basically a 2D map of four dimensional curved spacetime. It's just like projecting When you do that, you There is no perfectly accurate way to map the earth onto a 2D surface, but different maps can be For example, if you wanna keep like if you're sailing across the ocean and you need to find your bearings, you can use the Mercator projection, that's the one Google Maps uses. A downside is that it misrepresent sizes. Africa and Greenland but Africa is actually The Gall-Peters projection but as a result, angles In a similar way, we can of 4D spacetime to study Physical reality doesn't change, but the way the map describes it does. - He had chosen to put a of a space and have a time It's the most sensible thing to do, right? - [Derek] People realize a different coordinate system by doing a coordinate at the event horizon disappears. - It goes away. That problem goes away and into the black hole. - What this tells us is that there is no real physical singularity It just resulted from a poor Another way to visualize what's going on is by describing space as flowing like a waterfall. As you get closer, space starts flowing in faster and faster. Photons emitted by the against this flow, and this the closer you get. Photons emitted just outside the horizon can barely make it out, but At the horizon, space falls in as fast as the photons are swimming. So if the horizon had a finite width, then photons would get stuck here, photons from everything that ever fell in, but the horizon is infinitely thin. So in reality, photons either Inside the horizon, space falls faster than the speed of light, and so everything falls So Oppenheimer was right. Someone outside a black hole because the last photons they can see will always be from just but if you yourself go, you will fall right and into the singularity. Now you can extend the waterfall model to cover all three spatial dimensions, and that gives you this, a real simulation of space flowing into a static black hole made by my friend Later we'll use this model falling into a rotating black hole. Now, I've never been but sometimes it feels like with a spam collar. Fortunately, today's You know, I used to get and they frustrated me so to the Do Not Call registry but that didn't work and so I wanted to go on the offensive. I even contemplated making a video where I just mess with spam for all the frustration and lost time, but I no longer have to There are a lot of data brokers out there that suck up information about They collect things like email address, and even and then they sell this which is why we often that we've never even given our number to. Incogni battles these data brokers, you simply give them who out there has your and then they send them the right letter, with the correct legal with the request to Now, you could do this yourself, but it's a super tedious weeks, even months, and then you'd have to So that's something I and energy for, but Incogni Just sign up and they'll that have your data, the and the status of each request. So far, they have filed 83 of which have been 62 hours of work, but the best I've hardly gotten any more spam calls. So to try Incogni and fight visit incog.com/veritasium. You can click that link or scan the QR code right here and make sure to use the code So head over to I wanna thank Incogni for and now back to spacetime maps. If you take this map and transform it so that incoming and outgoing light ray all travel at 45 degrees then something fascinating happens. The black hole singularity on the left transforms into a curved line at the top and since the future always it tells us that the a place in space, instead, the very last moment in time for anything that enters a black hole. The map we've just created but this only represents the part inside the and the part of the but what we can do is the infinite past, infinite and morph it into a single map. It's like using the That gives us this penrose diagram. Again, light rays still So the future always points up. The infinite past is in The infinite future at the top and the sides on the right The black hole singularity at the top, a final moment in time. These lines are all at the same distance from the black hole. So the singularity is at r equals zero, the horizon is at r equals 2M, this line is at r equals 4M, and this is infinitely far away. All of these lines are at the same time. What's great about this map where you can still go and For example, when you're here, You can enter the black and you can see and receive but if you go beyond the horizon, your only possible future You can still, however, from the universe. You just can't send any back out. Now think about being at This is at the event horizon, and now your entire future but what is the past of this moment? Well, you can draw the past light cone and it reveals this new region. If you're inside this region, you can send signals to the universe, but no matter where you nothing can ever enter this region because it will never be So things can come out, but never go in. This is the opposite of a What color is a white hole? (Geraint exhales) (Derek laughs) - I mean, it's gonna be the, it's not gonna have a color, right? It's gonna be whatever's It depends what's in that's what you are going to see. So if it's got light in it's all gonna be ejected. So the white hole kind of picture is the time reverse instead of things falling in, and so whilst a black hole has a membrane, the Schwarzschild horizon, you can't get back out, the If you're inside the event so it kicks you out kind of thing, right? Relativity doesn't tell There's nothing in there that and that is the past. When you are doing your mathematics and you're working out you make a choice about which but mathematically, you could have chosen the other way, right? You could have had time point Any solution that you find in relativity, mathematically, you can just flip it and get a time reverse solution and that's also a - [Derek] Now, we've been showing things being ejected to the right, be ejected to the left. So what's over there? This line is not at infinity, so there should be something beyond it. If we eject things in this direction, you find that they enter one parallel to our own. - [Geraint] We can fall and somebody in this universe here could fall into this black and we would find ourselves (Derek chuckles) - The only downside is that we'd both soon end up in the singularity. I guess I'm just trying to understand where that universe appears in the mathematical part of the solution. Like, can you point to the part so that's our universe, that's the other universe, Like- well, it's coordinates, right? Imagine somebody, right, came for the earth, but only and you looked at that And you looked at it and you said, &quot;Ah, I can see the coordinate but mathematically latitudes You've only got positive What about the negative ones?&quot; And they said to you, No southern hemisphere, right?&quot; And you've gotta go, &quot;Well, you can have negative latitudes. Maybe we should go and to see if there is something down there&quot; and I know that's a because we know we live on a globe, but we don't know the full geometry of what's going on here in the sense that Schwarzschild laid down coordinates over part of the solution. It was like him only on the northern hemisphere and other people have come along and said, &quot;Hey, there's a southern hemisphere&quot; and more than that, there's two earths. That's why it's called maximal extension. It's like, if I have this then what is the extent of the coordinates that I can consider? And with the Schwarzschild black hole, you get a second universe that has its own independent from our universe. I want to emphasize right, to the Einstein field equations, and it already contains a black hole, white hole and two universes. - [Derek] That's what you get when you push this map to its limits so that every edge ends at - And in fact, there's another which is that, that little that is an Einstein Rosen Bridge. - To see it, we need Now this line is at constant crustal time and it connects the You can see what the spacetime is like by following this line from right to left. Far away from the event horizon, spacetime is basically flat, but as you get closer spacetime starts to curve more and more. At this cross, you are and if you go beyond it, you that gives you a wormhole - So that is hypothetically to travel from one universe to another. - Hypothetically, because these wormholes aren't actually stable in time. - It's a bit like a bridge, and then becomes shorter and if you try to traverse this bridge, at some point, the bridge And you say, &quot;Oh, well, let But as you start crossing your speed is finite, right? The speed of light roughly becoming stretching and you - [Derek] This pinching for anything to travel through. You can also see this if you because when you're inside one universe, there isn't a light cone that can take you to the other universe. The only way to do that would be to travel faster than light, but there might be another way. Schwarzschild solution that doesn't rotate. Yet, every star does rotate and since angular momentum every black hole must also be rotating. While Schwarzschild found after Einstein published his equations, solving them for a spinning mass turned out to be much harder. Physicists tried, but 10 years they still hadn't solved it. 10 years turned into and then in 1963, Roy to Einstein's equations which is far more complicated and this comes with a The first is that the structure The black hole now It's also not spherically This happens because the rotation causes it to bulge around the equator. So it's only symmetric Alessandro from science around this spinning black hole. Space gets dragged around taking you and the When you get closer, faster and faster until than the speed of light, you've now entered into the ergosphere. No matter how hard you it's impossible to stay still but because space doesn't you can still escape the black hole. When you travel in further, the outer horizon, the point of no return. Here you can only go inwards, but as you get dragged something crazy happens, one where you can move so you're not doomed to the singularity. You're now inside the inner event horizon. Here you can actually see the singularity - In a normal black hole, it's a point, but it in a rotating black hole, it actually expands out to be a ring and there are weird things happened with spacetime inside the a rotating black hole, but it's thought that you can actually fly through the singularity. - [Derek] We need a Penrose diagram of a spinning black hole, was a horizontal line at the top here, the singularity lifts revealing this new region Here we can move around freely but these edges aren't at so there must be something beyond them. Well, when you venture further, you could find yourself in a white hole, which would push you out - You can have these pictures whereby you're in one universe, you you fly through the singularity, and you pop out into a new and then you can just - Extending this diagram infinitely far. but there is still one brave the singularity. So you aim straight towards and head off towards it, you now find yourself in one where gravity pushes instead of pulls. This is known as an anti-verse. If that's too weird, across the singularity with normal gravity. - And I know this is basically But if you take the you know, essentially at face which is what Penrose &quot;oh look, these shapes are very similar, I can just stick these together.&quot; Then this is the conclusion that you get. Now we have effectively an infinite number of universes all connected all the way through and but it'll be a very brave who's gonna leap into to find out if this is correct? (Derek chuckles) - Yeah, I would not sign up for that. So could these maximally and Kerr solutions Well, there are some issues. Both the extended Schwarzschild are solutions of eternal black - As you say, it's an eternal solution. So it stretches infinitely and infinitely far into the future and so there's no formation it's just a static solution and I think that is part of the, part of the reason why black holes are realized in our universe - Or might not be. - Or might not be, or I'm reasonably I, personally, I'm reasonably confident that they don't exist, right? - [Derek] For the maximally there's also another problem. If you're an immortal you can send light into the black hole, but because there's in this top corner, you can which creates an infinite flux of energy along the inner horizon. This concentration of energy then creates its own singularity, sealing off the ring - My suspicion and the suspicion of some other people in the field is that this inner horizon will become singular and you will not be able to go - So all the white holes, and anti universes disappear. Does that mean that real In 1987, Michael Morris and that an advanced civilization could use for interstellar travel, so you can travel back and and have some other properties like being able to construct them. They found several by Einstein's general relativity. In theory, these could of the universe, making a They might even be able to The only problem is that require an exotic kind of matter with a negative energy density to prevent the wormhole from collapsing. - This exotic kind of matter, is really against the I have the prejudice I'm bothered by the fact that we say that the science fiction wormholes It's true, it's mathematically possible in the sense that there's but Einstein's theory it's geometries plus field equations. If you use the kinds that matter actually has, So I feel that the reason is very strong. - So according to our it seems likely that white and these parallel universes don't exist, but we also used to think So maybe we'll be surprised again. - I mean, we have one universe, right? Good, why can't we have two. (whimsical music)