Here we go. Why was 6 afraid to go camping with 7? Well because seven wanted to bring three knives hated him and did not have benign intentions. Don't be too impressed. I tweeted that six years ago. I am literally out of material. Or am I? Today on MMM, Michael's Math Magic, we're A card stack is a stack of cards in a particular comes next, either through rote memorization One of my favorites is the one we will be It is the Si Stebbins Stack. First published in 1898 by magician Si Stebbins, The Si Stebbins stack is wonderful. And it is a classic of mathematics as well Now card stack tricks have been in literature well. Take a look at these cards. They look pretty, ya know, normal. We can even cut the deck anywhere we want. I can even do a little bit of a messy, you But some of the bottom ones on top bla bla Doesn't matter. Point is you now get to pick a card. What's the best way to do this? How about this. Tell me when to stop. Okay you have to say stop. Alright? Ready? Whenever you want just say stop. Hannah, how about you tell me when to stop. You ready? Whenever you want. Stop. Oooh nice and near the top! Love it. Now this card that I stopped on is your card. And I know what card you picked. Hannah, you picked the eight of diamonds. Was that magic or was it mathematics? Well in a funny way it was both. This deck of cards...there's some drilling me because I am for you, not for them and I'm here to talk about orders. These cards are in Si Stebbins Order. It doesn't look like they have any order card comes next. For example the three of diamonds is on the the top. What is the Si Stebbins Order? Pretty simple. Each card is three above the card above it. So for example a six on top means the next The next card is ten, jack, queen. The next card will be a king, ace, two. Three, four, five, six, seven, eight and so But what about the suits? Well for the suits, I've arranged the cards The word CHSD is a mnemonic here to help you So if I cut the deck and just pick a random Clubs, hearts, spades, diamonds. The next card will be a diamond and it will five. Viewers at home, may I present the eight of Even though I know how the heck this works, single time. Certainly I won't know what card comes next. Eight, nine, ten, jack and after diamonds Jack of clubs. Oops I did it again. And I can do it again and again and again linear, it's cyclic. What is the difference between those two things? Well I think the best way to approach this One of the very important rules about taking midnight. But here's the problem. This has been pointed out by many many people. It's always after midnight. How long after midnight do you have to wait When is it long enough past midnight? Look this is really just a semantic trick time it is in terms of hours, minutes, and If it's 8:00 it will be 8:00 again. The days of the week are also cyclical. It is always after Tuesday because there will Unless it is Tuesday, in which case, well It's all a cycle. Here is a linear order. One, two, three, four, five, six, seven. This order is pretty easy to understand. After one comes two. After five comes six. But what comes after seven? Well, nothing. Unless we create a circle. Now instead of having a linear order we have or end. One, two, three, four, five, six, seven, right This is how a deck of cards can be treated. If I put these back together, seven will be the very next card is on top and it will be So long as I do not shuffle these cards and It doesn't matter where I start. Cutting a deck does not disrupt that cyclic Think of it this way. If I take the bottom three cards and move point of this linear order are different but One, two, three, four, five, six, seven. I can cut the deck again and move these cards Now the starting and ending cards are again One, two, three, four, five, six, seven. One, two, three, four, five, six, seven. Forever. So if I have the cards in this order, so long That is move some from the bottom, maintaining somewhere else in the circle. But it's also one of the limitations of I cannot riffle shuffle these cards because is where the actual magic comes in. How can you make sure that your captive audience the order of all the cards in the deck. You can learn false shuffles. There's some fantastic tutorials on youtube There are also some great magic kits. Or go to your local magic shop and learn how You could also swap decks. Shuffle up a deck or allow an audience member and without anyone noticing, swap it out for Now, that shuffle I did where I took some and put some cards from the bottom on the This thing right here, it can look really I love it. But it's actually a false shuffle. I am changing the linear order of the cards That's because when I take some cards off here, all I've really done is cut the deck. Then I push some cards from the bottom onto I've just cut the deck again. I move what I'm now calling the top back together and when I put some of the top cards cutting the deck again. All I'm doing is changing the start and So still Si Stebbins is in effect. Ten is followed by jack, queen, king of, what That's right, spades. King of spades right there! Pretty cool. But here's what I love about card stacks. You can come up with any order you want. In fact you can just come up with any order by using different memorization techniques, Here's a really cute one that I like. I've got this deck in that order. This one is called the Eight Kings Order. And this is how you remember it. Eight kings threatened to save nine fine ladies That's it! Those are all the cards from ace to king and what suit comes after which suit. I'm not very familiar with this order. I just learned it a few days ago but let's First of all let's cut the deck. Actually Hannah come cut that deck. Love it. Perfect. Here we go. Okay now tell me when to stop. Stop. Stop. Perfect. Your card is the card on top here and I know It's the six of clubs. I knew that because I secretly looked at the Our mnemonic phrase remember was "Eight for a or one sick knave." Sick being six and CHSD order what comes after We go back to clubs. Ch the C in CHSD. So six of clubs. I love this very very much. Card stacks. I love them. They're a great way to explore and learn And it's a creative project you can do on Come up with your own order. Name them after yourself and then no one will I wanna try one final thing. I've got...let me put all these cards back I've got a 1 in 52 chance of getting this I have a deck of cards I try this one out. And I figure if I try it, on average very Okay so let's see here. I'm going to use some mind-reading. What card is on top? Three of diamonds. Dang it. Alright if we do this 52 more times. This is a video, we could just fake it. Oh my gosh the three of diamonds really was Maybe you are psychic. What are the chances of that? If only there was some form of mathematics But there isn't so it must have been magic. *creepy laugh* And as always, four of diamonds. King of hearts. Six of clubs. Seven of diamonds. Three of hearts. Eight of spades. Eight of spades. Five of clubs. Ace of clubs. Jack of hearts. Oh my gosh this is the ace of spades. Dang it! Six of clubs. I want a really miraculous moment. And as always, three of hearts. Hey that worked! I mean of course it works. It always works when you're magic. And as always, thanks for watching.