Wish me luck. It's easy. This Pillbot is a tiny submarine that can navigate through your stomach and you can even pilot it. Plus, it's only about The future of medical robotics and it's gonna be a wild ride. Why do this? - This is a mystery. I have no idea what's going on inside. Here you go, you're looking - PillBot is a moving It's really just the tip - Technologies like these could dramatically change the way we get information about our bodies, allowing us to catch and treat diseases, maybe even before we experience a symptom. - Theoretically, this is for hundreds of millions of - That is a live feed of a burp. - Yes, that's what a burp looks like. - (laughs) That is an actual burp. Plus, it's like driving in your own tummy. So, sign me up. (Nick coughs) Went down the wrong tube. (coughs) (everyone laughing) Will your next checkup Buckle up Arnold, 'cause we're about to My apologies to Snoop Dogg. We're gonna get to know This is Hard Reset. One of the best movies of It's about how Dennis and injected into Martin Short. Okay, I haven't seen it so I have no idea how well it holds up, but man, did it make an Well, it made an Meet Torrey. - My father showed me this movie and I just got a kick out of it. As a kid, I just assumed, but at the same time, that must be what we're working on, right? - Torrey is the CEO of Endiatx. That name doesn't accurately They make tiny robot submarines that can navigate in your stomach. I suppose &quot;Tiny Stomach was already trademarked though. - We're actually offering real-time three-dimensional investigation basically doing what a endoscope does. - Later on, I'm going to swallow one of these robots. But before I do that, I wanna know where they come This seems like the kind of technology that would come out of a but it actually started known to most of the world If you've never been to Burning Man, there's only a few One, bring lots of water and hydrate. Two, last year was better. And three, people go all immersive experiences, Like this pair of giant Tesla coils, which was built by Torrey, Alex, and a bunch of other talented people. - Burning Man can be a place where, you can express your creativity in ways that you can't necessarily do it at work. Our group of friends had of building a world record Tesla coil and taking it out to the desert. - And we were pushing related to high voltage and high energy. Giant lightning bolts and yet they're beautiful. As you know, Burning Man is difficult and the technology didn't but we came back the second year and it only worked a little bit. And we came back the third And we came back, and we came back. And there was some magic in that. - Sometimes you need to before anything actually - And at the end of that, we're like, well, what else do we wanna do? What do we wanna do next? - So, Torrey, Alex, and the team of people that came together to build in the middle of the playa, decided that their next challenge would be to bring their blend of talents to making something very small. The PillBot is itty bitty, than your average supplement capsule, but it used to be a lot bigger. - Well, with PillBot we needed to start with because we needed to show that we had any chance of And so, we decided to build at the size of an American football. At that scale, you could get Raspberry Pi It's kind of like junior high school, science fair level tech. - It was literally, you know, It was absolutely that, that first prototype. - And we called that &quot;Pool Bot&quot;. And Pool Bot showed that you could do elegant three-dimensional control, with a multi-pump jet system. - It was massive. And then there was this progression, in order to get it smaller and smaller. The roadmap was pretty difficult. - Shrinking PillBot down from pool-sized, to elephant-sized, to horse-sized, to smaller horse-sized, to human-sized, was an engineering journey So these are all the different iterations that you guys have gone through. Well, not maybe all of them, but the major milestones, is that right? - There are dozens and - Right. of the big hits. The real step forward though, you know, football to Red Bull size. Getting down to thumb size, was the last thing we were able - To go from here to - We were cooking, right? Like on the mechanical side, finding smaller motors, smaller batteries. So yeah, just over a year But when we swallowed it, the thing was almost twice Meaning it would sink like And at best, you'd be motoring around over the wrinkles, usually - Normally I would've said, There's too many things, right? In terms of size, in terms in terms of compute, right? In terms of manufacturing, and we were off orders of We were literally 100 fold, needed to be smaller, lighter, cheaper. We started, we knew we had a lot, but we kept at it and we kept at it, until finally, we were only like 5x off. - A lot of what made this possible, is probably sitting in your pocket. Smartphones. This device is built on technologies that have fallen in price and since they found their - PillBot, in its current It has three pump jets that in any of six different directions, and basically, it's a that's capable of moving - Here we're starting to put together, some of the thrust barrels. - So you can imagine there's sort of a back end of the robot, - Right. - Which is the thrust section, right? This is all the motors, and - The Pillbots are and they're made from so that they'll be safe to ingest. How does it taste? - Doesn't taste like anything, but I can imagine in the future, someone will want cherry-flavored, I don't know. - The jets in the PillBot are the same vibrating that let you know when Craig about dinner tomorrow night. RSVP at the last minute. Classic Craig. - Let's go look at motors. So this is a vibration (Nick laughs) - It's a commutated DC They cost probably about 20 cents. We're able to kind of take those motors and pop our propellers on them. - The batteries in these need to be able to push really quickly. Surprisingly, electric car technology is what has paved the way - Let's talk batteries. Lithium ion battery, like that battery, is now super effective. Because of electric vehicles there's been billions and the design of the anode and cathode, and the connectivity, and the electrolyte, and everything that Things at that scale are difficult, and you can't even hold onto it. - Yeah. making custom equipment, to - Right. A lot of custom tools that and building in order to - Right. - Every single corner we would take, was a surprise and a challenge. But some of the big ones were, &quot;Wow, can we get the parts small enough?&quot; The traditional way of and having connectors wasn't gonna work. The smallest connector available, It took up too much real estate. - The team at Endiatx, was only able to make this work by using flexible circuit - And so, we can optimize and the chips, and the entire layout. So, there's a thing called an application specific where we might take three or four chips and put 'em all onto one custom chip. Not only does the robot get - Right. This is that flexible circuit, that three-dimensional origami circuit, that contains all of the electronics: the motor driver, the processor, the FPGA, think of the camera and the lens. All of the data that as well as all of the the antenna, the But that's it, that contains everything in We wanted to show that some of the fundamentals at a small scale, in a small size. We spent a lot of time on that. If we really want this to be that robot should be $20, $10. Like imagine if you're - Right. - now you can go almost and almost anyone can go So that's where it's going. You know $35 now, you can cut that in half and NASA could have built this 10 years ago. It would've cost, you know, a It would've been insanely expensive. We need to make this robot single-use disposable - Alright, what's next? We go swallow robots. Are you hungry? - I'm starving. - I haven't eaten a robot in a long time. - Let's go eat a robot. - Do you know a place around here? - I know, I have a favorite. I have my favorite. (laughs) - So, what's it like to play Mario Kart in your own tummy? I'm about to find out. In order for this to work effectively, I had to swallow a bunch of liquids, and then stop, drop and roll, to coat the inside of my tummy. They did offer me a couch to do this on, but I just decided to do Because, that is how I roll, get it? Whole lot of setup for that dad joke. - The way that you turn on a we use an external light. - Right. - And so there's a photodiode inside. Once you kind of activate the photodiode, the robot itself will turn on, I'm gonna hand you this robot. - Cool. - And you get very comfortable with it. - It's pretty amazing. I mean, it's definitely (Pillbot whirs) - That's me turning the motors on. - Yeah, its got some oomph. - Right now, PillBot is about by about 30 millimeters in length, which basically means it's most people might be able to swallow. - Shall we? - Alright. - Down, down, down, here, we see we're going There's bubbles and there's some- you can keep drinking - Okay. Okay, so this looks like, Dune. So, sandworm right there. - Yes, there's definitely So let's go ahead and - Wow, I don't even feel that. - Right? There's nothing. So, I'm moving around now. - The PillBot is a submarine, so you need some &quot;marine&quot; What I mean is that, you that inflates your stomach like a balloon, and gives your PillBot a nice, Sorry guys, apparently I And, um. Oh, I was wondering where that went. - Because PillBot moves we're actually offering, real time three-dimensional investigation, inside the human body. Basically doing what a endoscope does, in real time with no ifs, ands, or buts. - The PillBot is ballasted to stay level, which means it's always It can't currently look up or down. So in order to see the top you need to lay on the - And so even if it's not it's actually small enough to So we're very excited about humble beginning for PillBot, that certainly sets the stage - When was the last - Last night, I had a salad at like six. - Okay. Ah, it should be good. - I mean, but also my So my live swallow started out great, but seemed to go awry, when the Pillbot wasn't - Now we'll go back to your back and then onto your right side. There we go. Alright, let's see if that stabilizes. Yeah, I don't think I'm gonna Alright, you're up. - Alright. (grunts) It seems that my stomach Maybe because I was Hard to say. The point is that this technology They're still working out all the bugs. Just like their Tesla coil you need to be willing So we waited a bit and tried again, with a different model This model is designed to always look up, so you can examine the top I was also able to get a much better look at my long lost Lego friend. See you in 13 hours, buddy. Torrey, who has swallowed like had much better results. - I think this is 48. - Yeah. - Thanks for the correction. Anyway, we watched him do a demonstration with a gastroenterologist. - I think what we are is a complete gastric exam. So, that's why we are trying where we can say we looked We are looking for gastritis. Big one is gastric cancer. Those are the big pathologies. A lot of people have postprandial And an exam like this, which is the big question, you know, that answers the diagnostic dilemma and prevents need for more - This is how PillBot of a modern EGD or upper endoscopy, on a vastly higher scale. Instead of diagnosing people we need to figure out how symptom-based care, which we into healthcare, where someone who is generally or find something that they might not - It's worth noting that there have been ingestible cameras before, They just drift along and What makes PillBot different is the fact that it can - Some people on the team pure visual data, being Google Street view style environment, that you can actually, in digital form, use to construct a 3D environment. - If we can catch things colon cancer, or even they could be far easier to treat. So the potential impact for this, is huge. - The vast majority of people just don't really have access The idea with PillBot, we believe that these transport the capabilities basically just into the palm of your hand. If someone has a internet You could have a gastroenterologist on the other side of the planet do a telemedicine procedure. - So, what will it mean the insides of our bodies? Picture a scenario where looking inside yourself but an everyday occurrence. As this technology gets we could see these little medical constantly checking for - We haven't saved a life yet. - At some point in the next few years, we are gonna get a call from a doctor and they're gonna say, we caught a early cancer and we cured it. That is when PillBot stops being a dream and it becomes a reality. - But the future might not just be about monitoring our bodies. We could also use robots inside of us. Delivering targeted doses of medicine, or even performing surgery. - The scenario that we see unfolding over the next few years is, that tiny robots in the human body should be able to start - The concept that says, &quot;Oh, hey, I have this right here in this one and how am I gonna solve it? I'm going to swallow It has to go through your entire body, in order to affect this How inefficient is that? Let's just go there to that and we can do that now. - Imagine taking a sample from a disease site and getting bio-signatures and then being able to like a biological compound, right back to the actual location. That's like tailor-made - Some of these ideas but it was only a few years ago that this seemed impossible. - I wonder if we're - Oh, I see something there. Oh, that's, yeah, that's what I left in there for you. I recognize it.