These are the Roma in Bulgaria. We arrived at the brides' market in Bulgaria. Where girls gather every year. Here to be sold. The prices are determined by the family. However; Do you know who are The Roma? Roma community, gypsies. There are 8 million of them around the world. They're nomads, they say they have north Indian origins From Rajasthan, they moved hundreds of years ago To east European countries, like Romania and Bulgaria. And they're in most European countries. Some of them are in the Middle East. Among them is Nawar, and other Roma groups In the middle east They have very bad reputation, and they're really oppressed. No one socializes with them. Because they don't join communities. People are apprehensive towards them. Their traditions and standards are not compatible With the communities they join. Today we arrived at Bulgaria, in the capital Sofia. It's in the UN, but it used to be a part of the Soviet Union. Before it fell. Until now, time seems to freeze here. Its buildings and streets, and trains. It feels like it's still a part of the Soviet Union. It's very small, it looks like a mini version of Moscow. Today, we went to get to know the Roma there. They hate Bulgarians, despite having citizenship. And Bulgarians also hate them. Why do the Roma have bad reputation? A lot of them here are living in slums. They steal. They live without paying bills, without rules. When Bulgaria joined the UN, they opened the borders. All the Roma went out, scattered across Europe. You find them in Britain and everywhere. That's why we decided to drive for 2 hours from Sofia. To Stara Zagora, 2 hours from Turkish borders. A Roma family will host us in their house. Preparations started for the big day. I have to be from the same tribe to be accepted. Her daughter is ready tomorrow, they say she costs About 10 to 20 thousand in the market. Everybody is going with her, her mother And everyone is going to the bride market to prepare For this event. It's almost like social media But in real life. Boys and girls can meet each other And get married. They ask for their prices. Okay guys, we're now at a house of the Kalaidzhi. This is their house. And now we'll have interview with them Because the event is tomorrow, the bride market. Tomorrow, they will be sold. They like traveling and moving, and they're private. You can enter some of their houses, some of them are good. The Roma have a bad reputation. And now this is like a tribe from the Roma. She's preparing. She put on make-up, and chose a suitable dress for this day. Kalaidzhi tribe don't marry with other than their own. Even if they were all Roma, it has to be from their tribe 4 years ago, this girl was on a documentary; And they filmed her when she went to the bride market. Until now, she goes every year, and she didn't get married. They started coming, they started to gather here Their numbers continue to increase. And not only girls wear gold, even the guys. Wearing them everywhere, rings, chains. Expensive gold That indicates wealthiness, and to attract girls. Brides market will start in a bit. Someone has just found a wife, they agreed. What happens is that they get to know each other Then, they discuss the price. Girls here feel like a product, in Europe! That's why Europeans film documentaries here Saying: how are girls for sale in Europe?! Girls here have to be virgins. If she isn't, nobody will marry her. Maybe it's their families, culture and traditions That affect them this way. Eid Mubarak. The next video will be in Iraq. 10 million subscribers video. Let's not forget our ever-supporting sponsor Epidemic sound, in every video. Do you see all these sound effects? They're from their website. You'll find all-original music, updating every week. And it doesn't end there. Now, in find similar, you can find music you like. For example, dramatic, you'll find similar to it. In find similar, you find something else. And find something similar to it Now they can give you 50% off on yearly subscriptions. Use this code (JHATTAB50). A big thanks to them And a big thanks to you. Don't forget to subscribe to them. Eid Mubarak. See you in next videos