These five tech giants revolutionized they are shells of their former selves. fell. Starting with one that This video is brought to you by bond accounts. Setup Chester Carlson had made a breakthrough. Up until consuming, and required all kinds of chemicals. Carlson changed everything by inventing reliable, and extremely cheap. But he Tension one company finally took interest: Xerox. They royalties. When they released the Xerox 914, it of business, and soon every office was using one. but Xerox still weren't done. inventions. Using what they had learned, and even ethernet technology. Both of But there was a problem. Xerox had developed these amazing inventions, They had become complacent and slow. Why? revenue. So they didn't push other sides of the Soon other companies began to catch up, and were own inventions. But it didn't stop there. new technologies came into the Their executives were too comfortable, From the dominant player, to an afterthought. from over $150, to below $10. groundbreaking, and yet, even more tragic. Setup out of their workplace. They were frustrated with The "traitorous eight" sought out funding, and had one goal: Change the world of computing, Every computer uses tiny switches, called a flow of electricity. Extremely simple, but them. Yet at the time, these were extremely slow. called germanium. This allowed and because it melted at low temperatures, it As technology advanced, people In hot environments. It was unreliable, Fairchild wanted to change this. How? Tension so it performed better, was more stable, and Fairchild weren't the first ones further. One of the engineers, Robert Transistors and their interconnections could This meant chips could be much, much With these changes, Fairchild had reinvented the forever. Not only that, this also birthed "Silicon The entire world of computing today is only unfortunately, things took a turn for but couldn't keep up with it. Fairchild made incredible But soon, internal conflicts began to arise. Two of the original eight, including Robert Fairchild fell further and In 2016, ON Semiconductor acquired to their massive impact, this is a measly sum. this next company changed the world of software. Setup Sun Microsystems made a breakthrough. called Java. What made Java special? Well it Let's say you created some software in for Windows, but wanted it to run on for both platforms. Java was different. with Java: "write once, run anywhere". of time. You could write the code once, without you only had to test it once before deploying it. of years it was one of the biggest Much of the operating system as does arguably the biggest game in the world: But Sun Microsystems did much more than just Java Sun also invented the With it, a computer could share files with network. (Show diagram on page 4). this changed everything. Office work was Everything was going great for Sun Microsystems, but they were about to face Their stocks had grown fast. Too and in the year 2000, it burst. stocks were over $250, but just just two But other companies like Cisco recovered from Resolution / Payoff but hurt their customers more, many of which were But things got even worse. Sun had distributed this meant that they didn't make much money. Most sharing systems. But soon even that was at risk. like Cloud Computing, which made They were soon acquired by Oracle. But they were bought for only $7 billion. nothing compared to this next company. Setup had possibly the biggest impact on computing. They were a centralized research lab, and they have so many inventions, it'd be They invented the transistor itself, the core they invented the laser, radio programming languages like C, and C++. own right, and this barely scratches the The company won ten Nobel prizes for highest honors in research. Tension a division of AT&amp;T, a giant conglomerate. among other technology industries. They were a In 1974, the US Department of Justice filed a was stifling competition and innovation. the company's many divisions, Resolution / Payoff all its resources. It could still perform As time went on, the market began to change. as companies choose to perform R&amp;D in house. There Their relevance shrunk, and soon, as a shell of their former selves. Bell Labs could do after the breakup. It be said for this next company. Setup traffic was growing rapidly, as was demand for the dominant player in this space was Cisco, but Juniper Networks was founded in 1996, and some from massive firms like AT&amp;T. their first product. The M40 Internet faster internet traffic, and in higher and was 100 times faster than most competitors, Tension money began flooding in for Juniper. Within one the M40. With the success, Juniper began signing router was soon all across the world, from Europe One year later, Juniper went public with an IPO, was the darling of both Wall Street, and the Resolution / Payoff the dot com burst hit hard, but Juniper remained new challenges. New competitors began to appear, success, Juniper struggled to keep up. behind with product launches. Consistently away their market share. When their new routers lacking. Juniper's brand began to suffer. never recovered. Most of these firms had hold onto it. They gradually fell behind. from the most important man in business history. the assembly line. But some time later, his and innovated. But he couldn't accept it. While and soon Ford fell behind. Most of these companies but that success won't last forever. movers don't always last. You need to CTA 7.39% yielding bond accounts. We're the modern we're currently running a 3% deposit bonus. Pair yielding 4.39% and you can lock in 7.39% for the are cut. This offer is only available for the interesting, click the link below, but until then,