The probe used multiple SQL injections, but I've yet to find This is terrible! When I first saw this show, I shut down my TV that very second. Hi, I'm Keren Elazari, a security researcher, I've been in the cybersecurity space for more than 25 years. I'm the founder of Israel's BSidesTLV, and the Leading Cyber Ladies. Today, we're gonna take a look at some cool hacking clips and discuss, how real is it? Yikes! I wouldn't do that. That is bad, bad OPSEC. Bad operational security. The computer might actually If I had the computer like that, I was bringing it in for investigation, I might even x-ray it before When we bring in a device for a digital forensics investigation, we usually open it up not in the middle of our agency office. It's his omega site. I don't know the term &quot;omega site.&quot; I think that's just added Hollywood jargon to make it look scary. Most encrypted level he has. It wouldn't be a level. It might be a file or, you know, a segment of the hard drive. There's no levels. It doesn't look like this. There's definitely no 3D, you know, moving animations of Q: Looks like obfuscated code OK, that bit is real. Yes, you could obfuscate your code, and malware authors often do this. Q: He's using a polymorphic Whenever I try to gain access, it changes. We have seen polymorphic code, specifically with malware. So, now we finally see a Hex stands for hexadecimal. Now, hexadecimal means 16. You typically can see only 16 characters. 0 till 9, A to F. You won't see G. You won't see R. You won't see O. You can do a lot of things with code, and it can be beautiful, but it's not gonna look like a map. It's not gonna have these, This is something completely different. I think this is maybe three out of 10, and I'm just giving them putting in some actual, real-world terms, like malware, polymorphism, but that's pretty much unfortunately, Mr. Bond. Darlene: They're in the of the qualifier for a CTF. So, Elliot and Darlene are that is currently hosting a CTF. A CTF is a capture-the-flag competition, and this is a type of hacker game. It might be about decrypting a really unique piece of So, in this scene, they're in the qualifying and DEF CON is a real-world It's the world's largest I've been to CTFs at convention centers, university campuses. There's even hackathons and CTFs that take place in Italian farms. Although the one they're at Elliot: They let you restoring all the mines you found and all the shells you cleared. That's the weakness. What Elliot is doing could be having somebody Yes, it does happen. However, for Elliot to, understand what's going on that screen, get all the context of that code, and then tell them how I mean, I understand the show, of course, sets him up to be of but he would have to be Elliot: The game trusts to recreate the board. Poison the data. You can make it run It sounds like the hackers or to take apart a Minesweeper-style game. This sounds quite realistic. It's actually based on the real-world CTF challenge from 2012. So I think it's really cool of getting a real-world hacking challenge. [crowd cheering] A CTF room can get loud, it can get sweaty, it can get smelly. It can be electric. Elliot: All I have to and change the name server configs. What he's doing right and it would have taken him One does not hack a Elliot needs to get in touch with the backdoor that they planted inside E Corp in the past season. In order to do that, he's utilizing the fact that backdoor, which is basically a computer software, has a hard-coded C2 domain. C2 in this context means And it's oftentimes where hackers or malicious criminals that's going to run inside but in order to be in a position to communicate with the backdoor, Elliot first needs to And the next thing he does, and we see him do it, is issue the command &quot;shred.&quot; Shred is a Unix command but also rewrite them so much more difficult to recover, even with specialized forensic software. I'm gonna rate this I'm only deducting the one point just because of how and how quickly those hackers let Elliot jump into their CTF game. Well, we can tell she's a hacker. She's got all those Nine Ball, Rihanna, is using which is a fancy term for the internet. This is what's called a She's not just going on she is spear phishing. She's targeting this particular individual with an email with a topic, something that he's There are definitely attacks out there that would give an attacker and they could even turn on your webcam and you wouldn't know that it's on. But it typically takes and a tiny little bit more interaction on the side of the victim. They would maybe run an It will take a little bit extra. These types of physical boxes that would allow you don't really exist for computer passwords. Many of you have a phone that if you put in the four-digit PIN or a seven-digit PIN and you get it wrong, the phone will get wiped after So those physical boxes in the real world, used mostly by law enforcement, would bypass that using all but they would require physical access to be connected with a cable to their target device, to the phone. It makes sense that they just to get access to That's cool. That makes sense. However, this looks like and it's got not just lower case, and special characters. For a password of that length, it would have about 94 to the power of 12 different possible combinations. That's a number so big that You'd have to use the whole screen just to write it down, right here. There is no way an electronic And if Nine Ball has a box like that, it's more valuable than whatever it is they're gonna steal from I would probably say the first part, about the spear phishing, but then it kind of loses the realness. So I'm gonna average I think it was the turning point, where Hollywood started So, what we're seeing here is that Trinity is using Nmap, which is a legit network that hackers use all the time. We also see her using So, SSH Nuke refers to &quot;secure shell.&quot; And SSH Nuke is, according to the movie, basically an attack where she's taking advantage And it's even telling us it's attempting to exploit So, this was a real-world vulnerability in SSH that was only discovered maybe about a month before So as somebody was working as they were in preproduction, this vulnerability in that and they already featured it in the movie, which I think is extremely The only tiny element here is that she is resetting the password. If she successfully the exploit would give She wouldn't necessarily There is no way she could hack like that and not make a ton of typos. All the hackers know you need fingerless gloves to type fast. I'm gonna rate this And I'm taking away half a point just because of the gloves, girl. [keypad beeping] [door buzzing] So, Lisbeth here is doing the groundwork. She is casing her target. What she's doing is basically hanging out and catching, hearing the code as it's being touched in the keypad. And it sounded like one, two, one, two, which looks like what she's pressing. So, in the real world, it's not that difficult to understand what the different digits sound like if you train your ear to it. She's not gonna mess around with it. She's not gonna plug her computer and be seen doing all She's gonna take photos, get out of there, and then analyze those photos to see exactly what the hardware setup is, what the router is, what the type of communication setup is in that apartment building. And then she procures a specific device from one of her fellow hackers. I think that's very realistic. Looks like a, you know, a hacker space. Looks like a lot of places The device itself, it's hard We see that it's a Nokia. This might be in reference to something called the Nokia N900, which used to be known in And it was a phone that was used primarily for wireless-network hacking. However, it didn't look exactly like this, so this might be a specialized device. It might be a tablet that's got both a cellular connection It might be something similar to this. The device she's using in the movie is a little bit dramatized. It's a device that you can That's where you put in And it also has room for a SIM card. So, you put in a SIM card, it's got a cellular uplink, and you plug it into the wall. It's actually designed to And if I was doing a security assessment, I would sneak in, just like Lisbeth does, I would plug this into the and then I would use this other connection to, basically, from my to plug in, call up this bad boy, and run some network assessments, see what I can sniff, see what I can capture on that network. So, based on what we just saw, I'm gonna give it 10 out of 10. It's a very realistic scene. Mark: Billy Olson's sitting of putting some of the pictures next to pictures of farm animals and have people vote on who's hotter. So, apparently Mark Zuckerberg indeed live blogged everything when he created his Facemash. So everything that he's writing I'm gonna assume the screenwriters grabbed from his actual blogs. Mark: A number to represent like they do on hotornot.com. A website called Am I It was very popular. Mark: Unfortunately, Harvard centralized facebook, so I'm going to have to get all the images from the individual So, he has to tweak his script or has to tweak his process to match the specific houses, Even today, academic are a spaghetti of different and servers. Mark: They require a username/password. For one of the houses, he is required to provide a username and password. And the movie shows us for a split second that he's got the mzuckerberg login, but then we see he logs in with another username, called bolson. This is a hack. This is a moment where he And that would be, you know, probably against the Certainly against the Mark: Dunster is intense. Gonna be difficult. I'll come back later. This is very realistic. If there's one that or additional challenge, we won't spend too much time on it. We will circle back and get back to it. And this is also what the criminals do. They go for the low-hanging fruits. They go for the easier or if they're trying to they would go for the target You want to have that for the bad guys to get in. Mark: To break out Emacs And the movie represents it as if it all took place where in the real world it took him at least a couple of nights. He was obviously very capable but these are no zero-day exploits. These are not novel, innovative attacks that we've never seen before. Basically, he is automating the process of grabbing images from web servers. So, something quite simple. I would give it nine out of 10. I think the only unrealistic elements here is basically the to make everything happen Hack them all. [keyboard clicking] [engine starting] This hack is actually that was demonstrated about a year before this movie came out. So, back in 2015, Charlie demonstrated that they can remotely hack a 2014 Jeep Cherokee using the infotainment system. [tires screeching] I don't think it would have It might not even be realistic today for a hacker to be able to get into a lot of different Even the best would struggle with remotely for a car that doesn't already have a feature like that built in. However, in the future, that are much more This could be a very They are using, I guess, to coordinate the movements of all of these vehicles. If you think about it, even if you have remote control you would still need to of where all the cars were going and to somehow coordinate all of them to make them all go the same direction or where you want them to hit. So let's go for seven out of 10. I'm taking away points for Cipher already has everything set up, all she has to do is click on a tablet. I have definitely done that in the past. So, looking for a note, that's gonna have the password for the system that you want to access. People write down their passwords, but even further than that, people recycle their passwords. I just have to go to some of the many databases of leaked passwords, and I can easily find that you had five or six different accounts where you used the same password, so I'm gonna bet that you're gonna use that same password or a for a lot of your other online services. And hackers do this all the time. It's called credential stuffing, and we're just going to stuff them and try and see if any account, It's super easy for hackers to look over your social-media posts, or maybe even when you're on a Zoom call, and you've got that Post-it with a password just behind you there. So you want to enable things like two-factor or And sometimes that could also be biometrics. Good scene. Gets 10 out of 10 for accuracy. I've done it myself. Airiam, how we are doing Airiam: The probe used but I've yet to find This is terrible! This is horrendous. So, I gotta tell you, when I shut down my TV that very second. To think that a space probe in the future, in space somewhere, would use something like an SQL injection to attack a Federation spaceship. So, SQL injections are something that hackers use nowadays. You're banking on the is going to run whatever you input. And this is ironic because SQL was first created in the 1960s or 1970s, so maybe the writers of the show are basically telling us that we're stuck with SQL I give it one out of 10. So, they log on to our boxes, and our boxes log on to the real WiFi? Between everyone's device -- The scenario that's described in the scene is very realistic, and they're using a real-world device, a WiFi Pineapple made by Hak5. What I got over here is which is a much smaller version of the routers that they used in the show. And it's designed to be very sleek, so you could walk around with something like this in your backpack, and nobody would be the wiser. So any phones or computers walking around the vicinity would be logging on to this instead of the legitimate access point that they think they are logged on to. And they wouldn't be able So we show them a fake landing page and force everyone to of the Hooli-Con app. The second part of the They're using their control of the WiFi to point people to a website they control made up to look like the I would rate this at 10 out of 10. I highly doubt that the CIA would have servers that over the internet. While she's on that server, all the files are organized really neatly in cool folders with all of Now, this may seem unrealistic, but actually, a year we actually saw something called Vault 7, which was featured by WikiLeaks, which was an actual leak from the CIA. And they did have a lot of including their hacking tools, organized in files and folders like that. It doesn't look like any security-monitoring tool that I know. However, what's probably happening here is that Nicky is using a backdoor that somebody has already So, basically, Nicky's to specific ports on the CIA's computer, and after a specific sequence, so a packet's sent, port 8,000, port 9,000, the CIA's computer accepts and opens up a connection to Nicky's computer. This is a realistic capability. Agent: Where's that trace -- Agent: Unknown user. Again, they're using a basic capability. Traceroute is something that even your Windows computer could do, any Unix computer could do, but the CIA has that added that's gonna correlate it not just to a physical location but also to the accurate GPS coordinates. Sakov's hacking camp. So, it's remarkable the CIA they know it's a hacker space, they know all the hackers in the world, and they know where they live. Kill the power to the building. You know, this is not a capability that an intelligence if they have such a capability, to remotely kill the power When hackers hacked the in the Ukraine in 2015, they took down the power and it took them months I don't know if this is something that could be realistically done in such a targeted manner, We see IP addresses that For example, an IP address So, IP addresses are made up of four octets, four segments. Each octet has three digits. The digits, of course, could be zero. So it could be anything from zero to 255. Anytime in the movies that starts with -- you know, that's, like, 257, it's bogus. It doesn't exist in the real world. [computer beeping] If I'm hacking, I will that are gonna alert me if my computer is being but it would not look like this. I'm gonna give it a six out of 10 rating. They did include some but bogus IP addresses, OK, so &quot;Hackers&quot; is my ultimate, all-time-favorite hacker movie. It's the reason I chose to become a hacker in the first place. This is what it looks like when somebody is An entire night goes by. A montage passes us by. He needs all that time, and they're, you know, eating cold pizza, drinking warm energy drinks. That's the hacker menu I grew up on. Dade: This is every financial transaction Ellingson conducts, yeah? Now we actually see and to the right, the ASCII characters, or the financial transactions that the hex code would actually represent in the Ellingson Corporation's So this is fairly realistic. The antagonist is using They basically created that's threatening to capsize the Ellingson Mineral if it's not paid a million dollars. Mind you, this is the that Hollywood has ever depicted, before ransomware became Nowadays, we have a lot where criminals take and request a payment in and give you back access to your systems. So while it wasn't accurate back when the film took I think it really predicted the future. I would love to give this 10 out of 10. I'm gonna take away two points, a couple of points, just because we don't actually see any of the software code. Stop recycling your passwords! It's not a good kind of recycling. Don't do it. In fact, I got a T-shirt somewhere that says, &quot;Hackers don't And that's fairly accurate.