- Google Drive, Dropbox, OneDrive. If I were a betting man, I'd say the odds are pretty good that you've used or are currently using to store files in the cloud and collaborate with your team. I mean, as a creator myself, I'm constantly sharing files including very sensitive and even client data that The problem with this I just don't like using Dropbox, and two, I prefer the privacy assurance of end-to-end encryption that isn't available with believe it or not. I've already shared with you the different client in a previous video, but I've been on the hunt that makes sharing and both easy and very secure. So here's what I found. (techno music) Hey, guys, it's Josh here a channel where I share with and software solutions and privacy online. This week, I wanna give you of a migration that I'm which is what my team is currently using, and onto sync.com. Now, there are a number of reasons that I'm really attracted to Sync as an alternative for our team, including true zero knowledge encryption that gives me a little piece of mind as I upload files to the cloud, unlimited file versioning that keeps a copy of to the file stored with Sync, unlimited storage plans for teams and a special device vault that I can use as a personal cloud backup. I'll get into that in a moment. But if you really wanna know why I'm starting to make this switch, check out this side by side comparison. Let's say I wanna share a file with a contractor that has On the left, you see the three options that Google Drive gives me for sharing. I can either restrict it to share it only within my company, or make it entirely public. That's it. By contrast with Sync, which you see on the right, I have the ability to create that has a password, an expiration date, and even the option for enhanced privacy, which basically adds an additional layer of end-to-end encryption Now, on top of that I have the ability to for specific teams or groups of people. It's just a better way not only with those people on my team but especially with those who aren't. I guess I'm getting ahead of myself here. Let's step back for a moment, and let me show you what it's looked like for me to migrate my files and into Sync. And spoiler alert, Google does not make it easy So I've already created I'm gonna go in here, and I need to install the app for my Mac. And that's what I'm gonna just so that there can be without necessarily having (upbeat music) Now I do have 2FA enabled on my account. It is not the 2FA key, but it's the next best thing which is using the 2FA authenticator app, which can be done through not just Google authenticator, you've got Authy, you've got Yubico, so many other options out there. And that's what I've done that I've got my accounts So if you look here in Finder on my Mac, you'll see that Sync is a folder that stays consistently updated as long as my computer is Now what comes to I really wish it was easy as just dragging and dropping into that Sync folder. Unfortunately, that's not the case because a lot of what I is the Google Docs and the Google Sheets, and all those things that So what I have to do is into something called Google Takeout. So if you go to takeout.google.com, now, I'm gonna take, and I actually don't wanna but I need to scroll down here into Drive. And then I want to include only the stuff that I want to have exported. So let's just say everything And then I'm gonna go down here. I could do everything including Gmail, but for now, I'm just gonna do this: I'm gonna export once, and I'm gonna make it a zip folder, and exports larger than two gigabytes, I could change that. I don't think I have two gigabytes worth. We'll find out. But then I'm gonna create an export. And what it's gonna do of those Google Doc files into DOCX files or something that can be or something else other than because, yeah, we're not Same thing for every other file and makes it into something that can easily be imported into Sync. So I'm gonna go ahead and wait and then I'm going to import it into Sync. Okay, the export has been completed, and I need to download the data. It's gonna be in two different files. And once that downloads I'm going to import it So I was able to get it. It's gonna be in Takeout and Takeout 1. I'm gonna go ahead and put all of these and then bring them over into Sync, and same thing with the Takeout 2. There we go. And you'll notice right here, it changed it into DOCX and XLSX file. So basically files that can be opened by most office type software, whether that's Libre, or whether you use, obviously, Microsoft Office, or even Google docs Now, it's gonna take time for Sync to upload all of these files to the cloud in an encrypted vault. So that way it can be downloaded and used on any of my devices. By the way, in regard to my problems, moving away from Google in providing ideas on how to best do that. They offer toll free which is really interesting, but the response I got with email was more than fast enough for me. At this point, based on the ability to control how and externally is amazing. And now I don't have to fiddle around with these different client which basically means me before I upload them to or whatever. It's just easier with Sync. From a security standpoint, I like the fact that I on my account, which does present a little bit of a risk, but it also ensures that even temporary access, to my encryption keys. I have the ability to secure my account with two-factor authentication apps, which, you know I like, but unfortunately, at this point they don't Data is stored on servers but since Sync doesn't have like other cloud providers do, the data we stored there isn't viewable, even if it was somehow stolen or swiped in transit or whatever. But remember when I mentioned earlier about a personal vault for each device? Check this out. Right now I'm using the And if you see here on the bottom, we've got Files, which is all the files that have now been for my Sync folder. And then, of course, there's the Vault. Now this vault means, this is only for my iPhone, this specific device that I use it for, and I can put a backup of my iPhone, I can put a backup of my photos, I can add specific files or images that I want to into my vault, and it will stay synced in the cloud for the specific device, but it's not gonna be synced up to all of my different devices. So, it's almost like as well as having a synced vault with all of the other devices as well. By the way, if this is Sync has been very kind for those of you who are watching this. If you go to sync.com/ats, that stands for All Things Secured, sync.com/ats, you'll see that they give you of space free if you sign up, and you can test them out It's been a goal of mine to reduce my reliance on one company, like Google, for all things related to my business. And this is one step that I've been taking to help make that a reality. So this is what I'm using right now. I'm open to any thoughts and questions in the comments section. If you're still watching I appreciate you and hope that if you to &quot;All Things Secured,&quot; you'll take that simple step of just clicking the Right there.