Today I'm testing out a product I found while this which is a $200 pen. This is supposedly It has an alloy tip that basically will last ending up finding an alternative out there. This one This is also an inkless pen that lasts forever. So let's compare the $6 Let's first take a look back at the Let's take a closer look at this $200 pen by with an ether graph point. It's very We have looks like a little drawing of a have to read this over. We have a nice wooden Ah here it comes. Here it is. First It has, looks like a metal on the side with a kind tip here. There's no, there is no tip. There really of metal. I paid $199 for this. They say the uh that's what this is. It's made of aluminum. They a pencil. It is made in Italy. Now they say it works and that's it. That's it. That's all it is. That a groove here with a notch where you can either place it right there as well. So it's kind of an attractive display. It does feel very well made. I would hope so Alright now we're going into the low end here. Alright let me see. Definitely feels tip. Now this tip looks different. This looks The listing refers to it as a pen in some is a processed alloy but they don't really specify they do say this one can be erased. I don't think so $5.50 apiece. Much cheaper than the $200 pen here. here all right so I have a black and a silver. We shall see. Alright the preliminaries I got a few different types of paper here. Alright I'm kind of excited about this got some paper I pulled right on my computer Let's see how it works on that. First up, expensive pen. Oh wow it's very light. It's very light. Let me go from light to dark. Well you can make It almost feels like a pencil that's so low to be sharpened. It's kind of like that. The tip it but it does feel kind of dull. Let's try This has a much finer tip. You can tell. Oh this Let's see if I can go from light to dark. range. I can go from lighter to darker First impression, the cheap one's better. Let me see if I can erase either one of these. Uh not very well. Here's the the cheap one. not perfect but it does erase. The cheaper one It's not boding very well for the expensive Maybe this is just the wrong paper, let's see. here then something's wrong. Expensive pen take by the way how do you hold your pen? I guess this but I just kind of hold up here. This is a terrible you're supposed to hold it. I was never very good the reasons for that. I also wrote way too small in my classes, but I digress. Here we go. I'm just Alright let's try the cheap pen I mean neither one of these feel like I don't know why they call it a pen although the it a pen and a pencil. I would say this is closer than this one is. And this one's $6. This is $200. From light to dark. I'm just scribbling. Now the the cheaper one. Light pencil. This feels like a very dull pencil. Very So far I can't say I'm jumping for joy about spent my own money on this. Alright let here. I'm gonna have this piece of paper with a When I was a kid I used to do this one. Let me show you And we would turn that into a picture of a boy. twice. Bring it back down. Kind of make that into in the 70s when we didn't have the internet so we On this paper and this soft backing that didn't the previous ones I tried. Interesting I'm gonna Over the top. Over the top. That's a Alright for some reason on this particular paper result. I wouldn't say it's $200 versus $6 say at this point the $200 pen is striving to go back to my original paper with a stack of it. and now I've got a whole stack of underneath there I mean for doing some sketching it doesn't seem too just kind of... I don't even know what I'm of doing some random sketching. Let me I think the $200 pen is better when feel like this is more like a pencil them are like a pen. Let me try erasing Barely erased. Cheap pen next. Much closer. I mean I didn't... I did about the same I think at this point what I need to do is enlist at drawing than I am to see if there's any that next and then I'll come back and give you kids who are much more artistic than me try these Brandon and his Paper Mario sketch said that the the $6 felt like a 2B. He did say the his final assessment we both were okay. gave the slight edge to the $6 model also had about the $200 one is that it felt &quot;weird.&quot; More gave the slight advantage to the $6 model. thought this was the $200 one because it was these qualifies as a pen. They should just call it I'll probably keep using them although I'll use okay for light lines for sketching but the $6 for writing and more everyday use. But that's tell me what you think in the comments below.