Hey everyone, so I know that many of you find just like I do, and given his history of slander pathetic apologetics in perpetuity. Well there's what he's been up to and laugh together, shall we? he was busy pretending our debate never happened, in real time, out into the internet, looking for of life researchers, plus Bruce Lipshutz for some anything more than a lunatic shrieking on a street ignoring for years. Well the 60 days have elapsed, which he begins by upgrading his claim followed by disingenuously referencing If all they did was answer one of those five bothering them. They couldn't do it. They couldn't And remember what I told you, that if they can't we are clueless, but I'll start saying that origin of life is an absolute scam. Ok, it was tongue-in-cheek, but yeah, This time James forgets to trim out the part the tweet. That's what tongue-in-cheek means. way". Which means he doesn't think it's a scam. showing them that he's a liar, and nobody cares. that the YouTuber cites. They are confessing because they didn't have the answers. understand that they don't respond because he's a of my viewers who don't even have a background in syntheses of polypeptides and polynucleotides, He just keeps pretending they don't exist because aside stacks of literature with the empty claim and deprotections is just pathetic. He doesn't since it proves him wrong about even The only one to respond to me was Lee Cronin, and relevant. The questions were not relevant for the but what he agreed to do is to meet with me. We he and I are going to be at So as it turns out, Lee emailed James to tell so we won't know what else was said other but of course the DI capitalized on this shred Harvard in a desperate attempt to continue Anyway, that event happened a couple weeks ago, consisted of James and Lee each speaking for dinner, and then a discussion panel. Throughout a radio contest to sit with real scientists for an over and zoned out, only speaking when spoken is talking about. But let's start from the top James makes his statement. I'm just going to go through this. Let me give of life from non-living matter. To construct take into account the condition of the Earth this is from Merriam-Webster. reading from a script? I thought only The man could not speak without a script! You could do it! You could do it! get a car! You get a car! I am not speaking of a god of the gaps. I think By that of course he means that one day we will that his god of the gaps made life by magic. close. And how can I say this. It's because close we are being able to reproduce this, build is every year the cell gets further away from Predictably, James is off to the races spewing complex modern cells are, interactomes, and all of four billion years of evolution. You all for good faith conversation or to update just highlight a few things he says about Lee. oligopeptides by some prebiotic-like route. It And same thing with saccharides. Because this is billions of compounds. It's very hard to do this. want to go. They don't know to move toward life. toward life, there's no impetus to do this. doesn't understand and calling it garbage. We and it's great research. Lee makes and he demonstrates how sugars can be made by the presence of certain mineral surfaces. James towards life" because he's a complete fraud biomolecule synthesis was somehow supposed molecules don't want to move towards life? I of course they don't. They simply obey the laws that they resist being incorporated into Professor Cronin now speaks of the general with no rationale for what makes it good, and know the primordial soup model where you have lightning strikes, molecules form higher those cells now form higher order structures and then those creatures evolve and they come out know where that came from, you think that came Darwin? No. That came from the Babylonians. And gods as well. You wanna take those? It's nonsense. this tripe about the "primordial soup model" but these upgrades just get dumber and creatures slithering out of the pond, but the hell is he even talking about at this point? The James. By the way, it's common knowledge that borrows tremendously from Babylonian mythology, then so are yours. Great job admitting you're is just James screaming the same ridiculous debate and in all of his content, so there's no Let's move on to Lee's statement. In short, some concepts relevant to his research. This are interested in science, but ineffective for how James just lied to them for 20 minutes. This like myself and a scientist like Lee. When I meet a lying fraud he is. When Lee meets with James, isn't to say that Lee should have used his time in Lee mock Jim's pathetic script. He could have features of modern eukaryotic cells as though could have briefly summarized some known prebiotic and pointed out the dishonesty in Tour's polynucleotide linkages that don't negate polymer for his repeated misuse of a facetious tweet. was a joke, if you can listen to the podcast. people to say hey, origin of life has made looking at complex systems. Powner, Sutherland, quite in a very particular way, and there's a Anyone want to take any bets as to whether James even though Lee just told James to And it's really important that we have a wide to the time of electricity, when the Voltas and and Tesla were trying to work out what the best clean progress. It was lots of argument. But eardrums have already been rattled a little bit. constantly shouting like a toddler, Lee is quite fancying himself above it, which is fine. So let's So I figure that in my lab, maybe it's not two be able to create the conditions where we start A very reasonable statement, since this through the work of Gerald Joyce and an area James continues to pretend isn't real. counting those bonds. Jim talked to the graphs They're graphs. Mathematical objects. They're were reaction diagrams. That's a massive in Nature requires that you interact not just smart people who want to understand what you've up in this kind of hierarchy of you don't know into not thinking is not the way I do science. should ask ourselves what are the questions. understand the research he So assembly theory is actually very simple. It's pathways start with a basic set of building blocks give a child and say right, start here, let's with graphs, that look like molecules, these are blocks. The assembly equation is this quantity to tell you the amount of memory that basically has going to making a thing. It has three things I object and it is this, this is the next simple pair of scissors in your head, you can cut it up Just imagine that, put it on a graph. You then and the larger the number of copies, and the it came from evolution. That's the basic premise. thinking that these ideas can be transmitted so only he in the room is aware of. But this fundamentally too complex to convey in not give the Tour follower what they need to hear But from here we move on to the round table for James. He's used to lecturing crowds of at a table with educated people, and you from fiery preacher to perplexed toddler. people have stimulating conversation, while of intervening with a comment even a single time. he speaks only when spoken to, and even in those are a few highlights. First we have a fellow who of years in the future who admit that early 21st but they have a machine that can create cells. the emergence of life now were like hopelessly but they also show you their machine where they whatever, some sugar or whatever simple things you know, a day later, you get cells. And they process for you, it's entirely convincing Earth. Do you feel vindicated or do you feel Oh I feel... so, I didn't inject any That's not my... that's true. Oh I absolutely do. But I just wanted to vindicated. I'd feel totally vindicated. so the molecules in my mind are fighting against push them, you use all sorts of ingenuity. in certain orders at certain times certain and it's so hard to move them move toward life. Again, this bit used to be that molecules have saying they actively fight against being pushed ascribing them sentience and also stubbornness? nothing to do with this? Or maybe he just can't the funniest part is that the guy asked him a very that takes raw ingredients and makes cells. So not going towards life, he's just pretending the pivots to one of his dumb talking points. Dimitar Sasselov here at Harvard has used to get crystallization to enhance chirality in you see that hey, maybe there is a route to really wasn't even around when I was in school. Crick did and appears to have a stroke. that's great. Just like when Watson and Then the guy who asked the question tries So just to be clear, at the beginning you said, at think we will figure it out. But it was a very believe like, in the end there's a naturalistic Yeah I think that we're gonna see, just like where we're gonna go oh, lord, you did it. That's how information is stored. we will find a naturalistic explanation we will figure out how god did it. I mean, the The philosopher in the group picks up on this Well then if molecules don't move towards life molecules, then the missing X factor must be either the environment or a creator, right? living organisms. So you are insisting that it so Lee jumps in to save him, but I'm really, Jim I don't really know what your one hand you're so angry and aggressive against like you're saying oh this is garbage and that's anything. That's the process of science, right? way. I think we make more progress by doing it in who your audience is. I came here tonight hoping misquote. And I refute to get in that converation, there's something super interesting what's going to address your ludicrous claims. It was more forward for new scientists out there, people who where the new interesting problems are in science. Nuance. We should criticize. Absolutely, that doesn't pass my test scientifically. But scared to engage, why do you think none of those you because you sounded like, look like the to have a discussion. And I know you a little it's great, so I came here to kind of deamplify This would be a good opportunity for James to he's become, but instead he remains silent, and I think we wanna know, I'm kind of interested in and why you think these people, who because I'm pretty sure they're not. And I think I don't know about Lee. I don't know him. But So, I don't think that anybody is setting out to scam, intentionally scamming people. Origin of life research is a SCAM! tail. Dance your dance. This whole I think that what happens is, when you three years. When we have life in the lab in when on the other side you get into a professional there's a long distance between the RNA and life. of researchers dozens of different You're a scientist, right? You know that, I may and it took me 27. I mean it doesn't not a disservice. It's also not a disservice. about what you're going to do in your lab, and patents, arguably they've gone somewhere. But you do. Does that make you working in bad faith? I think is that you're coming around... over you for the ridiculous things you say on the James is. This woman confronts him about how he frauds and scam artists. He has no response. Lee not following through on projections when he does is completely and utterly incapable of admitting is, he just will never do it. And the only lungs right now is because nobody at the table over again until his psyche starts to crumble, do instead? He brings up the Lee quote that Like in the interview that I read from Lex He read a long paragraph, but for some reason should become a politician. He is basically how he unabashedly trots out this idiotic despite me having completely humiliated So we as a community have put forward something is grossly incorrect. That is starting in and the primordial soup model is into advanced college classes. That model. to keep spewing this talking point. Here's a great important clarification regarding something Everything on planet Earth that has been be it this glass, me, the silverware, and it's Random events happen, and the thing that doesn't that can exist in time has to be copied in some or the photographs on your thumb drive to keep we are not seeing that goes through chemistry. this. Because everybody talks about equilibrium taught. And not about Prigogine's work in simply that if you have enough species to start from equilibrium, which describes pretty much all import free energy, like this planet. Then regimes evolve. I mean this is mathematics. It's chemical level with various kinds of reactions So that to me says that life is inevitable. In my paper, explicitly, the thermodynamics stability that you guys are looking for. lifetime. And this is key, it's all selection. for any individual life, or for life itself. before the cell every became. about in my very first response to James, others regarding life as a manifestation of the complex systems as inevitably emerging when matter surprise that James has no response, and probably this guy was talking. Lee even confronts James What Galileo did, and I'm no Galileo, but I do wanna cause a god in the gaps. And I'm sorry there's a god in the gaps. I've looked at it very going to be solved, and on the other hand you so way science works, when you do that yourself new conductors, new catalysts. So you kind of move getting bigger and the goalposts are moving in Jim is very nicely playing a sleight of hand here, key shift that has to happen in the discipline. religion into science, and Lee accurately James does believe in a god of the gaps, no he shifts goalposts using slight of hand. These but this time, James remains stone-faced and keeps table conversation, and move on to the final of the previous discussion but with everybody James will happen here. Let's check it out. implication of scientific study of the origin And so I would like to ask both of you, Jim on what do you think are the implications Yes, let's talk about religion! That thing James regarding science. First we get Lee's answer. about culture, and I'd like to expand it to what life is. We wanna know if we're alone aliens. We want to know what's the future of the religious implications, it's about the understanding the place of life and how special I'm not an expert from thinking about a religious people, there's a strong wish to understand, have That was a bit abbreviated, but you For me, I mean my faith in Jesus Christ means more what I understand of the scriptures, it is clear him. You don't have to know him in this sense to the lord at all. But what it does is it gives scientist has when they behold these things that to ponder before. In all the generations that have are occurring. And so for me, if, when someday I think it makes the lord all the more magnanimous it. This is how it could be done. And I just know that we'll discover this in my lifetime. true colors, flat out admitting that he including life. So he is publicly announcing that explanation for the origin of life, he's lying, one. Not that a single person is surprised by these things out loud and later pretend he didn't. my lab. I mean I certainly look at it and critique thing of chiral-induced spin selectivity, I saw 20 years ago, when I was visiting him in Israel. up. And this is why I say there's going to be many discover. It's quite, I think it's quite wrong for There is no difference between James and a garbage that contradicts his earlier comments, has nothing to do with anything, then he tells a what happens as James wraps up this trainwreck and To see all the things that god has discovered, there, and know that there's a magnesium atom into that thing, and you eject an electron the street who doesn't know the science can't get of the glory of the creation of god. No, actually we really have to move on. agree with the intelligent design conclusion. Institute and many other creationist organizations a naturalistic origin of life helps to support Kudos to this guy, because James is constantly movement despite just admitting about five that he believes everything was designed by god, appreciate the god who designed everything. Shall Yeah well I absolutely believe in a creator. For days god created the heavens and the earth and the length of the day is, if we can quantify it based believe in creation, and I'm very explicit on why I say I'm sympathetic to it. It's just that I people are now trying to come up with measures of have a mass spec tool, I don't have an analytical that I wanna hold myself to. Show me the data. that he believes god created everything exactly as but he is pretending that he needs some kind to support them, something he is already territory for James and the DI. They want James one among them who can, as he's the only one known as anti-science propaganda all across academic credibility when their affiliation with That's why this gets so uncomfortable for But you allow all of your It's not a matter of allowing. I mean how You give them permission. permission to be published? Oh if people take my written material and publish it's published. So I can't say no no no, you can't permission and I've never denied permission. audience, I failed to introduce This moderator is hand-picked by the DI just like on cue to jump in and save James by changing which comes from the philosopher. we discovered some very natural explanation for Which is possible. In the book of Exodus it's rolled the Red Sea apart, in another chapter it's the thing apart. How do you distinguish what's You know, I wish I were a better philosopher Yes, James. It's your ineptitude with philosophy faith forces you to lie about science. that doesn't normally occur. That have many things that could occur that don't I'm sorry? none of us is, each of us is an exception. frequency of occurrence as a distinction No that's a good point, I mean the and you guys can just dance around me. James is basically just admitting that he's too the next bit, where Lee dumps on James Right, and I think, if you're just saying a later, well you know, I think it's going odd going on there. It's really important, if is going to be productive, problems are really and shouting at each other, saying there's a it's impossible because no one stabilized the you made it all up! No, they just haven't Well put by Lee again. Now the physicist has Jim. You're now the head of NSF. And you have years on origins of life. And you get to decide I know what you don't want to happen. But I don't about wanting something. I think that was you. I don't want you to say as an answer, and this is don't want those guys who are doing bad science. could happen with that 50 billion dollars. think it would be wrong to make that decision. from the community and outside the What a copout! James Tour, the brave who has spent several years telling all the they're clueless morons who haven't done a the smartest boy in class, what would he do with idea! The group would have to decide, because he wants the entire field to cease existing. existing. He actively tells students not to enter away. He hasn't thought for a single second about because that's a totally nonsensical scenario for invalid. With that for context, let's watch him I would never designate, and use that, I mean might imagine. I mean this is a fictitious thing own university, people have said you know, he going to say with the people in evolutionary for my colleagues myself. I would put it before what have people been trying for many years that I just keep saying no that doesn't work, that there are things that don't work that repeatedly Sorry, I really want to hear. And but I have ADD so I think it's ok. bullshit wafting off of James since the isn't having any of it. He just spent a minute But I wanna hear something positive. Like amazing laboratory, and these are the forward. That's what I wanna hear about. hear. You just said it. I mean... Right, so I would say that we have to approach Five billion dollars is a lot of money. Fifty I mean origin of life is a boutique community, million would be a big thrust for that program. question, and just pivots to one of his Remember when I slammed him on this in But what I would say is, ok here's a new selectivity. Dimitar Sasselov just came enhanced crystallization so you have a new how chirality may come forth in small molecules. he never shuts up about that has nothing to do getting this much of a window into Jim's little lightly pressing on James, you can see the demons I mean some people say that it's right that's beneficial to say that it's right around let me finish. I say it's not beneficial to be to the community 'cause if you keep telling they don't wanna go into it. It's a problem. deal with this anymore, who's gonna go into it? nobody will go into it, a thing which you job, James. Lee has a bit to say First of all, what would we do with the money, but let's say I have 50 billion for a day. I don't I think there's a lot of good synthetic chemists looking at complexity, and really but there's overlap. So I think one of the things silos. Origin of life is not gonna be solved by a He's a bit long-winded here, but he's is interdisciplinary. Something I've been trying James never listens to dumb old Dave. Let's How could we actually be more interesting can agree about how time comes into origins Why don't you go first, Lee. So, I mean the numbers that I put out there enough time in the universe to do many things fold. We don't have enough time in the universe. meant. You mean... what? That life can't No, I said it takes beyond the universe time for a these folded proteins that would have to occur. saying is just immaculately idiotic. Not enough the hell is he even saying at this point? Does he Why? There is no context imaginable in which sense. Let's hear him waffle some more. So life can't exist in our So there was some other influence upon phenomenon that we're not familiar with. Or we don't recognize that it can happen. interactions between amino acid residues. Protein that causes chemical reactions to happen. But you don't think that's god. Fundamentally all things have been created by puts this in a materialistic sense and allows It's all god. Nothing happens without god. launches into his script about how molecules And these things don't hang around very long. So that's coded well for something, that thing days, depending on that molecule. And that's it. So that's really interesting. This I think. You're very interested in time. Your something that makes the time smaller. set up the argument really nicely. what James said is so profoundly stupid that So I will talk to two, so I think the protein like if we take that table here in front of us, the staff for putting everything out, it's been to drink. and I say what's the probability of people eating and drinking and being laid out greater than the lifetime of the universe. But Harvard. Or habit. understand probability, and then reminds But there's a really important point here. That talks about reactions, the reactions when the that can exist for long enough time, because you no death no life, no evolution. So for Careful, Lee. You know what happens when chemistry. But there are others on the panel so let's give him another moment. so molecule A reacts with... how it works, it's what it is that works to understand, it's not magic. Ok, so let me propagate in time. And they can cause, molecules themselves and they can make Roman arches, wooden arch template, and it's arches on arches not this big combinatorial space, it's by and then that produces a more complex artifact Look at our society, we're building Very elegantly put, and the central to get James to acknowledge all along. And physicists do not think simply just because I know you're very worried It's like an outtake from The Office. Priceless. The reason I came here wasn't to defend far from it. It's to basically say that we have problems are not catastrophic failure. They are There are new ideas coming, assembly theory may be and we don't actually come up with new ideas and made better, we are not going to be doing to have critical discourse about what does this and how we can bring people across, and go across of doing science. I wanna go across, I'm not just some physics, if you're more interested in that, it's incumbent upon us to basically bring all the Not exclude them by being overcritical you're a joker, clueless. Ridiculous. Don't idea. It didn't stand up to scrutiny here. Here's These subtle digs at James probably seem a but it's Harvard, so we'll take So I apologize if I came across as angry. I really I'm passionate with my grandchildren. You're just what, James? What do you question, James? Do you do this? It's not passion that fuels your outbursts, you're passionate about is slandering So I wasn't angry at all. So if you thought angry at Lee. In fact I'm happy that he came, I'm glad that you came, and I'm not angry at work in origin of life are disingenuous. Many people have asked me are they doing this, you know, they wanna somehow exclude god? I don't and think how can I exclude god today through Of course not. Real scientists don't do that. But lie about science to prove that your god exists. doing anything wrong. I do think it is thing solved when we don't have it solved. When experiment after experiment it's becoming changes in the publications of my colleagues, talk about the origin of life, they're a lot more James is so delusional that he thinks researchers their publications because of what he might are worried about what Kent Hovind will say. thing. If you tell young people that we've got who wants to go into it. And so I'm not upset and I apologize if I hurt anybody's feelings. about this. I'm not sure how I can curtain this. He's using his entire closing remark to do nothing be a humbling experience, after spending so and having your ego built up, to then have intelligent, educated people at Harvard, who or it would have been another unhinged But feel sorry for my wife! I mean, think Oh, we do James. We do. and we're together, and we're happy, four kids together. So it couldn't be all bad. his entire final remark saying absolutely the entire audience that he was never there Anyway, that's the end of this fiasco. It's hard idea, as though any real academics would take away with his script if they didn't press him a lot. But even their mild, civil criticism was for him as our debate at Rice, but you can bet front of any audience that isn't his brainwashed he knocked this one out of the park, as always. is as disheartening as any experience imaginable full of science illiterate morons praising James how badly he just humiliated himself. I hereby flat earthers. They are that pathetic. himself to the path of shameless apologist