NARRATOR: During the time has been measured by through the darkness of space. Scientists use our solar system of the universe as Time has a quality as the perimeter The haze occasionally which inquire into the very itself. And a glimpse of the true Time, from creation to now, tugs strongly as the unborn toward all eternity. Someday, man will between these two great and the future. And then will man journey to the center of time. [car horn] Mr. Stanton Jr. for a top priority conference. Yes, sir. Your route is cleared Denning, how long to be dead before you bury him? I don't understand. Am I or am I not in full Why, of course. Then we'll drop the Junior. I'm the only Stanton in [warning buzzer] [machines beeping] Power intake, Laser beam pulse system go. Photosensitives go. Time selector set at Present. All set, Dave. Stand by for time Check time transport Date-- 6/8/68. Time-- 11 hours, 20 minutes. Five, four, three, Marked-- date, 6/8/68, Count down checks out OK, Mark. Time synchronization 100. I'm standing by for Ready. Switch on. Switch on. Stand by to activate Reception 100. All systems go. Time selector accuracy, 100. Stand by, Dave, here we go. OK, see you day I'm going to set the time Final countdown-- 10, five, four, three, two, one. Date, 5/8/68, time, 11 hours Hey, it worked great. Time transport all go. All go. All go. Accuracy 100. Now I'm setting at zero minus 48 hours. We need more basic power input. Basic power systems are MARK MANNING: Check Flash pulse indicator Laser beam cycling is up, too. MARK MANNING: We're not for the time transport. Check photon cycling. I'm sorry, Mark. Photon cycling is up there, too. You've got all the external I can't give you any more. Wait a minute. The internal power your auxiliary show a power shut-off there. Doc, why don't you try opening Very well, we'll try it. [beeping] Mark, the time selectors. Cut it back. Well, we might as I'm sorry. We weren't ready Don't blame yourself, Mark. I agreed to take a chance. Zero minus 24 hours-- We'll get there yet, Mark. We've been at this And we've still never gotten And that's only phase Remember what Edison said. At least we know 700 Nothing worth doing Was there any damage, Karen? Nothing serious. The circuit breakers all worked. Oh, Mark? Something's burned out. It looks like one of the Nothing drastic, but that very nicely. Good heavens, I'd Well, if I know Stanton Jr. to, quote, &quot;investigate and projects to determine future he hasn't forgotten. And he and his sharp little blue FEMALE SPEAKER (ON PA): Doctors please report to Mr. Stanton has arrived How's that for a cue? It'll do. Let us go. Gordon. You know Mr. Stanton. He's very eager to learn more Mr. Stanton, Mr. Ms. White, Dr. Manning. Gordon, Gordon, Yes, Dr. Gordon, I believe my appropriation of of last year-- $14 million. To be exact, it was, Why? We're working on a project Mr. Stanton. And that means new types of much experimentation. Why, Dr. Gordon? What makes your Perhaps this might This is what really started Why, it looks like an It is. Ah, may I? Well, don't keep it to Let me in on it. All right, &quot;Washington, An announcement has an airborne eye that sees What this particular is this-- operating from a in space, the eye moving images of people and but that were there But that's impossible. STANTON: &quot;Developed by and used to gather information the TV-like eye somehow picks and things from referring them to an For instance, the eye may to capture pictures of the with cars during the day.&quot; You photograph the past? That's substantially correct. I don't know, but taking the way it appeared a it strikes me as the height hardly worth almost $14 million. As useless as raising a Yes, if you like. That's probably exactly what called his mold penicillin. Now see here, Manning. MR. DENNING: Gentlemen, all sit down and let Dr. Gordon dollar gizmo of his works? Certainly. I'd be glad to. Our experiments here of the fundamentals of relativity-- the Theories, Dr. It's proven, Mr. We know that there is a and a peculiar one, dimensions of space. Time may therefore be MR. DENNING: I'm afraid I DR. GORDON: Now, It may be said to exist in length, width, and height. Of course. Ah, but it wasn't Before it took that shape, it And at any time, it may So it still exists. But its three is no longer valid except Time is therefore a Yes. In fact every object, every to the entire to exist in what the scientists Doctor, may we come back to made to this matter, please? Certainly. All right, have you with any of your experiments? Yes, partial success. We've been able to go 24 hours. [chuckles] In other words, you duplicating that have been tried Not at all. We're working with an Well, Dr. Manning? Instead of the used in the early is based on a laser beam. Laser beam? It stands for by Stimulated Oh, I see. It's a one color which is extremely selective. It doesn't spread The rays stay parallel. A laser beam is like one perfect while ordinary light is like high school band. It's-- May we dispense with your and get down to Now, I still don't you gentlemen are trying to do, If it's all right with MR. DENNING: So you think you can take with this laser beam Yes. The past, of MR. DENNING: Oh? Suppose a scientist on a planet were observing Earth. He would at this moment be left this Earth 50 years ago. He might very well be In effect, some full would be contained in to that distant planet. That's quite an idea. It's more than an It's fact. And since spacetime the present is only a along that continuum. When you put it even I can understand it. Theoretically, we should be able along that continuum, actually And why haven't you been able Well, that's a haven't found the answer yet. Now doctor, I refer to this watching the past Yes. And that phase B is really That's correct. Would you mind telling Looking into the future. Oh really, looking Now despite all had looking into the past, succeed in this, well, scheme? We do. And for what We are on the threshold Mr. Stanton, actually Our existing predictor Predictor instruments, doctor? Instruments that are used They get predictive look into the But their capacity is Now we need to look ahead Fascinating, Dr. Gordon, Yes, it's all very But I must say it's also Doctor, are you prepared into the future for us now? No, not quite yet. Ha, well, I thought not. Well, gentlemen, I'll your request for funds. But I'll have to warn you. If you don't come up with within 24 hour, I'll be forced and convert it to Good day. Doctor, young Stanton He hates to put the that isn't going up. Then why doesn't he That's the only You shouldn't He's a pompous fool. Well, we know that empty But unfortunately, we're We wondered where Yes, getting a Worrying won't do any good. I guess not. Such a lovely evening. The mountains look much Yeah. It doesn't get you What? All this. What would you Poetry? Why not? All right, I can be poetic. Let's see, a lady of can travel much She took off one day and returned on [laughing] You nut. You know, you're quite pretty for a girl. Why, you're not entirely There's even a full moon. The perfect It's a shame for What do you say? Help yourself. Susan. Ah, good morning, Mr. Denning. How are you this morning? Well, I'm not so sure in that rainstorm last night. Here today for the test? Oh yes, yes, I'm it should be very interesting. Yeah, we were just Mr. Stanton come in yet? Yeah, I saw him in the He was on his way down I think he's going to Oh? Well, I won't be in the way if Oh no, not at all. Dr. Gordon just told I think they're Well, I better get See you later, Mr. Denning. Right, Dave. DR. GORDON: I've gradually, though I'm sure the Right. Stay with it for a while, Dave. We're running a check. No hurry. I've got all the past, present, and future. Don't worry about a thing. I'm going to run a Oh, by the way, maintenance last night. So everything should be A-OK. Cut the image stabilizer. Switch is off. Stand by. Setting minus one. Setting minus two. Morning, Gordon. Hello, Mr. Stanton. Setting minus three. Ms. White, Manning. Mr. Stanton. Well, I hope for your sake to show me this morning. In a minute, Mr. Stanton. Setting minus four. You know, I'm not against as long as it pays off. It didn't take Stanton DR. GORDON: Setting minus five. Setting minus six, There, that does it-- Standing by for exterior OK, then what are Phase B. MARK MANNING: OK, phase B it is. Resetting the time selector, on countdown-- 10, five, four, three, two, one. Marked-- time It's all yours, Doc. Take her away. I've set the time plus 24 hours Time selector set. Stand by to activate KAREN WHITE: Standing by. [whirring] Switch on. Switch is on. Time transport system How is it for you in there? Negative. I'm going to increase Stay with the I'll only take it [whirring] Negative. There's only one Accelerate the Mark, we've never subjected It's a risk. I say take it. Now wait a minute, Manning. You have no authority to make Dr. Gordon is in charge It may shatter the Or it may not. If it does, we're But we don't get this damn thing anyway. Very well, we'll try it. Oh, that's enough, Mark. What's the reading? I don't know. I could still accelerate. But the needle is of the flash pulse what our cycle speed is. Better decelerate. No. Wait, it could be the time They may be off. Try moving the transport ahead. Keep going-- to the That's it, Mark. I'm the past the How far? Oh, 100,000 years. That's twice that, even more. I'm bringing time transport back to zero hours. Hold it there. I'm going to open the No, don't do that, Mark. [whirring] [electrical explosion] [bombs exploding] [sirens] [bombs exploding] Wait, look. It's a test area, time central. It's fantastic. Look at that But how? The time transport circuits The time selectors. What's the reading, Mark? 5,000 years. But that's impossible. In the future. But it can't be. I know as much as you do. The lab just seemed to vanish. All right, we'll stand by. But hurry, please. What happened? Where's the lab gone? I don't know. One minute, everything Dr. Gordon, Mark, and Suddenly there was a Mr. Stanton was in Mr. Stanton? Well, can't you do something? Bring them back. Are they in danger? We better try to with them-- wherever they went. Susan, has the monitoring a bearing on the lab? Negative. Monitoring tried to But any attempt at communication Apparently, everything's been Then that means they're DAVE: No, not necessarily. We're still getting a faint but beam pulse system. Monitoring is attempting Trace it? To where? To whatever dimension in time You mean they've travel Well, I follow you, Well, you're familiar with I'm familiar with the theory. All right then, now that lab But somehow, they've transported in the continuum. Monitoring has just from the recorder We should know very shortly the lab has travelled. And then what do we do? Well, it's a wild chance. But before the overload, were synchronized Our central control is equipped of the lab in the such as a power failure Monitoring reports the time was set on plus factor, traveled into the future. The future? How far? Well, there's no way of telling But according to the laser beam, Quick, get engineering I want all the plans circuits inside that lab. The overload burned out and apparently has created new somehow we're going here in our master control if We've done it. The future-- a window I almost wish we hadn't. MARK MANNING: Why It's almost as if the end of the world. We don't know that. Come, there's much to do. We've got to take recall what fuses and what new made in the transport system. I don't know if stable enough not to burn out. We better work fast. It won't be long at before the laser explodes. You know something? It looks like you can [explosion] We're in the center of Doctor, get us out of This is not a window This is real. The lab-- we have been A time rift, a warp of that matter can pass through. KAREN WHITE: We traveled in a matter of seconds. Come on, the condition The readings, the new Mark, the hatch. Do not be alarmed. We mean you no harm. We observed your craft as You'll please come with us. Hold it. How do we know? But how do you You don't. But if you're found here you will surely be destroyed. We must hurry. Come with us. We seem to have Where are you taking us? To the council chambers Dr. Vina will be as interested as you are in having Picking up a faint video but it's not strong on the time screen. All right, let's see what we Monitoring, this Now, I've reprogrammed the circuits in our master control. I'm going to attempt to utilize a guide to pick up video image. Please stand by and record all All right, Susan, stand by Standing by. All right, screen activated. Image activated. Reception 100, standing by. Susan, try advancing the Just what do you hope to if I may ask? Well, we know they went It seems logical that if last position and we should be able to Negative so far. The vault's beginning Keep trying. Keep trying. Try changing the Still negative. I don't think it's going to-- Wait, wait, look, it's working. My god. Where are they? Lost if we don't act fast. We've got to take a them back before it's too late. Dave, we're drifting. I don't think we'll be able Just long enough to We're losing them. Quick, lock in time I can't. We're drifting. We've got to hold them. We may not get a second chance. But the circuits are unstable. Lock-in is impossible. They're gone. We've lost them. Keep trying, Susan. We'll get them again. We've got to. There's no telling DR. GORDON: --lost Less than an hour ago, in our own world. And now-- You are still in your We are the aliens, not you. DR. GORDON: Aliens? I don't quite understand. Ours is a colonization ship. We come from a dead world And we have been with an environment close to This is still Earth. The year is 6968. But yours is a dying world. Dying? How? I wish I could tell you But I'm afraid that Ours was an untimely Regrettably, we've of a devastating global war, a and mankind annihilated. How do you plan to survive We don't. There is a creeping We cannot stay. Where could you go? We must return to the stars, where Earth-like worlds exist. MALE SPEAKER (ON PA): Break units 9 through 14, report Units 1 to 9 report to repair. All other units on alert. Stand by. All our efforts may be in vain. We're in a race, a A race? MALE SPEAKER (ON PA): Attention Massive troop movement It is only a matter of assault will succeed. We must make the necessary before that happens or parish. Why? With all your you build stronger differences? Our makeshift defenses for a while. But there is grave danger. If we cannot compete MALE SPEAKER (ON through, major has penetrated the barrier. Repeat, barrier penetrated. Enemy forces This is council control. Activate secondary force field. Repeat, activate You see, even with our we are not invulnerable. Man's atomic weapons as-- as spears are to man. But even modern man can But if you're just here would they want to attack you? In hopes of our advanced technology. To them it is a means of life, their waging of war. [static] They've broke through. [laser blast] We shall not succeed. Our journey ends here. But you-- you must taking with you the Fate of mankind? You must return Tell them-- tell them-- Yes, go on. Warn them. The laser weapon-- We have no laser weapon. You will have. It will leave your burned out slag in space. It will-- my people re-enter your time-space warp. You must go with them. You must return to your-- [gasp] Follow me. [laser blasts] [explosions] [laser blasts] [explosions] Monitoring, this Stand by that video We're going to try it again. Are you ready, Susan? Ready. Screen on. -I hope we're not too late. But there's no time to get them out of there alive. What makes you even think Coordinate. So far we haven't just this futuristic holocaust. They're out there, Mr. Denning. How can you be so sure? You see, we're picking up this In other words, everything is identical to what Dr. Gordon Then as long as this that means they're intact? Yeah, that's basically correct. But we have no way of knowing Well, I doubt very much that Monitoring reports they've just selector settings from the lab. Does that mean That's a good bet. Reset our time selector Reestablish video contact Time selector set We should be back in I've tried to minimize with ourselves in time. We'll make it. Of course we will. And we'll bring We will not. MARK MANNING: What Well, isn't it The war did happen. We didn't get back Maybe we did. Maybe they just didn't listen. Sometimes people don't listen to But whether or not, there At least we can-- Gentlemen, please. Karen. Laser beam pulse system go. The overload indicator overloaded the laser's ruby. It could shatter if Does that mean we'll No, Stanton. Our lab may be set wander aimlessly through time All set, Doc. Standing by for time Standing by. All right. Mark, activate time transport. Time transport activated. We should be back in the I wonder-- MARK MANNING: Doc, Something's coming Whatever it is, we're on Laser beam pulse in strength, causing in video reception. All right, activate Image stabilizer activated. It looks like they're Monitoring, confirms. Dr. Gordon's time selector How long will it be Oh, I imagine just unless it takes longer to How accurately can Within a few seconds of They're safe if they hours in either direction. But we're not taking any Stand by to attempt as it passes through our It looks as if we're not the FEMALE SPEAKER (ON The radio-- it may not work, This is Dr. Manning. We are from the year 1968. We're traveling the on a direct course with you. Collision imminent. Unable to correct. Over. I repeat, collision imminent. Unable to correct. Do you hear us? Please reply. The laser system-- perhaps without overloading the laser. I'll set the discharge at 50%. Any more than that will destroy Stand by for discharge. [laser blast] It worked. The discharge acted like It didn't work. They're going to I've got to stop them. Stanton, wait, you fool. You'll be murdering-- destroying [laser blast] Laser power surge from Lock-in is impossible. They're going too fast. Release time locks. They're gone. What happened? Where did they go? Monitoring is still They haven't stopped yet. Monitoring, this We made visual as it passed through our time. Our time selector traveling on the spacetime We're standing by to Please verify closest They must be completely No change in speed-- [church bells] [cannon fire] [horses galloping] [hooting] [cannon fire] [clashing swords] [yelling] Well, how far we've perhaps even farther. It looks prehistoric. Mark, what is the time 1 million years. 1 million years? BC. Both of you go See that the settings I must have readings. Otherwise-- The laser system-- It could shatter. I'm going to take You people do what I'll let you know what DR. GORDON: Stanton, come back. The warp condition is unstable. It may collapse any second. The lab may move on. MARK MANNING: Come If we move on, we'll Some loss. I'll go after him. Mark. No, Mark. It's my responsibility. I'm still the senior here. Now you two, get See to those settings, and see Well, I think we've got in our master control. Are you getting any video? Nothing on video. However, we are still the lab's laser pulse system. But it's-- it's weak, very weak. Could that be because they've traveled? I'm afraid not. It's more likely a malfunction ruby. Is that serious? Well, it could be if You see, that ruby for the entire lab and the Monitoring indicates the And telemetry from the systems are very weak. The warp could collapse at any Can they give us No, they dropped We have to locate They consider the All right, stand by to SUSAN: Standing by. DAVE: Screen activated. Stand by to boost reception. This is central control. We're going to and attempt to get clear All right, I'm going to Almost-- just a little more. All right, we've got them. Now let's try and Monitoring is standing All right, lock in Time coordinates locked. Set the time selector to Time selector set. All right, I'm going to try We're just holding If we have a change in that lab short out all our circuits. You ready, Susan? Ready. All right, switch on. [static] SUSAN: Mark. DAVE: They're starting to drift. We'll have to hold it here. Dave, we're shorting out. Cut all power input circuits. [sparking] Well, that does it. All the systems are gone. There's nothing more we can do. We're still picking up the At least they're still intact. She's right, Dave. That's something. Yeah, I'm sure But it may not be enough. That warp condition was The lab can move on at any time. It may be hours before we [static] Mark. Mark, what is it? Keep the warp open, and [laser blast] DAVE: Well, it's Those circuits took quite Dave, the laser beam-- Monitoring, this We've just lost the Do you still hold No bearing. The lab's gone. There has to be We can't just leave them We're not giving up rewired every circuit and [screaming] [roaring] KAREN WHITE: Mark, Karen? It came after me and I discharged the laser Mark, what are we going to do? DR. GORDON: Look. [screeching] Let's head for those Come on. [roaring] STANTON: There's a We can hold up in there. Come on. [roaring] Whew, that was close. Too close. It doesn't sound as if We'll just have to sit him out. Sit him out? Let's try to find All right. We've been wandering Yeah. We were lost when But you, Manning-- yeah, you. You really fouled us up. Now you've got us Look, Stanton, if we'd be back in Mark, Karen, come What do you think of Well, if it weren't I'd said it was an All right, and this? A diamond. Oh, but they can't be real. It is. And do you know what it means? Uh-huh, it means we're rich. Not at all, Stanton. These are worthless stones to us of the approximate to replace the one that was Come on. I've never seen anything Just hope the place This crater must be a lava pit. Intense heat and pressure This cavern must be in Take it easy, Stanton. No worry, I know Look, you get what you want. I'll get what I want. Get away from there. Now listen, Dr. Gordon. You're not giving me any orders. This is not your expedition. It was an accident, an and bought with my money. So I'll do as I [steam escaping] Get out of here before [screaming] MARK MANNING: We've got to stick together. Come on, Karen. Stanton got away from us. [whirring] Stanton, wait. We're pretty close now. You know, if we could step up we might have reception. Yeah, but I don't think these It's pretty makeshift now. Look, the laser signal. Wait a minute. Monitoring reports they picked It's moving. In which direction? Back on a steady course Increase video power Activate image stabilizer. Better cross your we don't overload this time. All right, Susan, stand by I'm ready. Lock-in activated. MARK MANNING (ON PA): We are from the year 1968. We're traveling the on a direct course with you. Collision imminent. DR. GORDON (ON PA): Perhaps we can fire a warning MARK MANNING (ON STANTON (ON PA): They're I better stop them. DR. GORDON (ON PA): You'll be murdering-- destroying STANTON: No! [explosion] Was that the lab? It couldn't be. We're still getting a signal system. Well then, what was it? I don't know. Monitoring confirms They're still picking The lab is stationary in its and telemetry indicates They can move ahead Good, we better Now, they may attempt Dave, the time Controls, the settings-- were when we first arrived. But that's impossible. Nothing's impossible. Stanton must have doubled back, I have a feeling the time transport while The same thing Well, that's a chance I'm setting the time selector Plus or minus how many seconds? 30 seconds plus departure time. Here we go again. They're moving. All systems check, with the What if they overshoot again? Isn't there some way No, they'll have to hit Laser beam increasing. They should be coming It worked. They hit their time lock. DAVE: Yeah, but They're still drifting, and What is it, Mark? So strange, so quiet. We'd better hurry. We're off our time mark. Mark. Our calculations We've returned too Why aren't we-- why We've disrupted the time flow. We're existing in of time, a parallel world. Look, they are that you can barely see it. We're existing at such rate we'd be nothing more There can't be two of us. Sooner or later, time ourselves and our counterparts. What could happen? Two solid objects can't I don't know what would happen. We'd explode, implode. I don't know, but at any There's got to be There's a chance. What? Back to the time lab. To what? And when? Come on, I don't know what. It's our only chance. We've got to take it. (ECHOING) Dr. Are you prepared into the future for us now? (ECHOING) No, not quite yet. (ECHOING) Well, I thought not. Well gentlemen, I'll your request for funds. But I'll have to warn you. If you don't come up with within 24 hours, I'll be forced and convert it to Good day. (ECHOING) There's only one accelerate the (ECHOING) Mark, the unit to such speed. (ECHOING) It's a risk. I say take it. (ECHOING) Now wait You have no authority to make Dr. Gordon is in charge (ECHOING) It may shatter (ECHOING) Or it may not. If it does, we're But if we don't get we're out of business anyway. (ECHOING) Very Whoa, that's enough, Mark. What's the reading? (ECHOING) I don't know. I could still accelerate, but of the flash pulse indicator. There's no way of telling (ECHOING) Better decelerate. (ECHOING) No. Wait, it could be the time They may be off. Try moving the transport ahead. Hold it there. I'm going to open the (ECHOING) No, [whirring] Mark, what will it be like? Another Earth, another We may be the Adam and [whirring] [music playing]