Spring 1941. Nazi Germany dominates Europe. Only the British Commonwealth fights on. Hitler now turns east to the Soviet Union, where Nazi dreams of a new land empire Episode 1 - Barbarossa April 1941. In a field in western Ukraine, counted bullet holes The twin-engined German aircraft But the military bearing The smell of burning plastic was It came from a smouldering which the Germans In the spring of 1941 Nazi Germany But everyone knew it could not last. German reconnaissance aircraft, usually passed unnoticed. engine trouble forced It was quickly intercepted and shot down. Under interrogation, the Junkers pilots flying to Krakow in German-occupied Poland. They'd been shot down near Rovno, deep inside the Soviet Union. The pilots were from the elite 'Rowel' They had been secretly photographing in preparation for the German Ten days later, a top-secret report arrived the Soviet military attache in Berlin. His report made two conclusions. The Germans are planning war They plan to attack soon -- In the spring of 1941, could say exactly when Stalin's best spy, Richard Sorge, had claimed that the invasion after the harvest was sown. When that passed, The reports from Soviet agents In short, no one in Moscow was certain In later years it was rumoured that the almost as soon as they were signed. Masses of information was received But only a few reports Many valuable ones got lost 5 months earlier, in December 1940, It ordered German forces to prepare codename: Operation Barbarossa. Now, German troops taking up position Hitler would later claim that the Red Army poised to invade Germany. was a pre-emptive strike -- But this was classic Nazi propaganda. particularly in the neutral countries, But few were fooled. In private, Hitler was more candid "It is only the possibility of Russia "that now gives the English hope. the English would have to make peace." Operation Barbarossa was relying on the blitzkrieg tactics that and British the previous year. The attack was to be spearheaded Their tank and motorised infantry divisions into enemy territory, and destruction of enemy armies The four panzer groups Hoepner... Guderian... and Hoth. The ultimate goal was the capture of Moscow, German strategists believed would lead to victory in 3 to 4 months. For the invasion, German forces Army Group North was to advance Army Group Centre towards Moscow... and Army Group South towards Kiev Army Groups North Army Group Centre had two, including Colonel-General Herman Hoth in the campaigns against Poland and France. He was 56 years old, by his soldiers as "Papa" Hoth. Unlike Russia, where many senior officers Germany could call on Most Soviet generals were in their 40s. Hoepner 55... and von Kleist 60. Panzer Group command staffs arrived at the At first only staff officers The tanks were not to arrive By keeping his tanks in the west, Hitler wanted it to look like and prepared only defensive And so an invasion army quietly In 1941, the Wehrmacht was Its divisions had been Morale was high after victory in the west. The last few months had been spent for blitzkrieg operations. In contrast, the Red Army was dispersed with many of its units still The forces at the border spent much of It would take two or three weeks of And there was little preparation the Red Army always expected to attack. Furthermore, Stalin was in no rush He knew the Soviet Union was not ready. In 1939 Nazi Germany and But Stalin harboured no illusions. Intensive military construction The Red Army had grown from strength to five million. Soviet armed forces were still in the midst Fortifications were still being built, Until these preparations were complete, Stalin was desperate to stave off But the reports from Soviet intelligence In early June 1941, and motorized divisions This no longer looked like preparations 8 days before the invasion, printed a report in one of its newspapers. It read, "In the British there are rumours circulating between the Soviet Union and Germany. Soviet official circles believe that It was an invitation from Stalin to Hitler to settle their differences But in reply, Stalin finally ordered reinforcements Even now, Soviet spy Richard Sorge reported: "The invasion has been delayed Stalin hoped once more But it was too late: the invasion was now On 22nd June the Red Army stretching from Poland Most Soviet troops were only just beginning In contrast German forces were massed At the start of the invasion, in the Baltic republics 21 Soviet divisions In Byelorussia, 26 Red Army divisions In Ukraine 45 Soviet divisions The Red Army was outnumbered, and they would prove to be of little value. On 21st June, German high command It confirmed Operation Barbarossa Tanks, armoured vehicles and trucks That evening, German officers to read them a proclamation It declared, "The fate of the German In the days to come, German soldiers as those from General Hoepner: "Your struggle must pursue the objective and must be carried out But not all soldiers wanted to be part of Sapper Alfred Liskow, a secret communist, He crossed the Bug River, Stammering with excitement, the Nazis would attack. Before the sapper was dry his words Similar information came from a Soviet On the morning of 21st June he reported In the Kremlin, General Zhukov, managed to persuade Stalin A directive placed all troops but with a warning that the Germans The orders reached front line units just In Minsk, General Pavlov, Commander arrived at his headquarters Waiting for him was a report from the town "Ammunition has been distributed. Commander of the 3rd Army, Vasiliy Ivanovich Kuznetsov had been He later rose to command When the Second World War began, and would endure its hardships The warnings about an invasion His troops had been listening from across the border for many hours. The first Germans to cross the border an elite German special forces unit. With a mixture of trickery, the German commandos secured key The Luftwaffe was already airborne. They were heading for major and airfields identified The Soviet Air Force, had no idea of what was about to hit it. they were the first to see At 4am their bomb doors opened... Russia's Great Patriotic War had begun. Dawn on the 22nd June 1941. One squadron commander, ringing the alarm and getting his men Where Soviet fighters did manage they found the unmanoeuvrable Mlynuv airfield in Ukraine became Here the German Edelweiss But these were token victories in a Some airfields survived But then the Luftwaffe In the course of five most Soviet air bases in the west In the air, although the Soviets their pilots lacked the combat experience Major General Kopets, made an aerial inspection After landing, he shot himself. By the end of the first day, in Byelorussia, half its strength. In Ukraine, 300 planes were lost -- And in the Baltic, about The first German onslaught The Red Army Air Force had been decimated. It would be many months before it was able German ground troops began Hoth's tanks advanced between capturing key bridges Hoth wrote: "All three bridges across This was completely unexpected." German generals quickly began Hoth recalled: "Everyone longed to get For the moment, Hoth's panzer group The aim was to envelope Soviet armies But not everything went according to plan At one point events took an unexpected at the 19th century The fortress was supposed to have But units from two Soviet divisions, were stationed here On the morning of 22nd June the fortress came Many soldiers took shelter where they became trapped The Germans had expected But instead a bloody siege The fortress garrison defended fighting on in small isolated groups -- After four days the Germans had The Red Army garrison 400 survivors, led by Major Gavrilov, On 29th June the Germans began and finally captured the citadel. By now the defenders were running out of It was a full month after the invasion when the Germans finally The doctor who treated him recalled that without even the strength left to swallow. But an hour before, throwing grenades that killed Despite the heroic resistance it was simple enough to bypass the Brest Fortress One advantage held by the Red Army seemed They had about 10 thousand tanks But for Red Army light tanks it was to be a very short, The T-26's front armour The BT-7's was not much better Both were extremely What's more, their 45 millimetre to pierce the armour of modern German The poor design of Soviet shells meant many simply shattered on contact For the Red Army, the first tank On the second day of the war, Red Army tanks met a German panzer The battle turned into a massacre. More than a hundred T-26 tanks were On the third day of the war, about 150 T-26 tanks were destroyed. The next day, Soviet T-26 tanks in the Baltic. (PORSHH-EE-LAY) At the start of the day the Soviet 28th By its end, just 50 remained. The pride of the Red Army lay wrecked and The German army had 4,000 tanks and self Half of them were the virtually Only 1,400 of them were the new Each German panzer division had 200 tanks and more than 2,000 command A Soviet tank division had almost twice Events would prove Without enough support vehicles ammunition and spare parts, would be abandoned German tank crews went into combat But a nasty surprise lay in store. German tanker Gustav Schrodek of the 11th He recalled: "We sent the first shell The second shot was another hit. What was going on?! We had always joked at a Russian tank, and it would blow up!" Other reports began to arrive of that seemed to be immune to German guns. Near Raseiniai, these new Soviet heavy before bursting into the German position The only effective way to stop was with the powerful 88mm The new Soviet tanks They were names German soldiers As fighting raged along the frontier, was the only one to bear on the advancing German troops. Kusnetsov's troops fought German General Ott wrote: has forced us to fight We could afford to take certain chances Kuznetsov was also to launch an armoured counter-attack. The Soviet 6th Mechanized Corps including 350 of the new T-34s and KV-1s. The decision on where to counter-attack When a concentration of German where Kuznetsov's Third Army was fighting, General Pavlov decided It was a catastrophe. The 6th Mechanized Most tanks ran out of fuel or broke down, because supply depots had been When the remaining tanks the crews blew up their It also became clear that there was So while the 6th Mechanized Corps Hoth's panzers advanced German control of the air meant had no access to air reconnaissance. Pavlov estimated that he faced only But on the third day of the war, a German reconnaissance unit After the battle was found and sent After one glance at the map, Instead of one or two tank divisions, the five panzer divisions was advancing on Minsk and Bobruisk. All of Pavlov's forces were Pavlov immediately ordered all his troops Guderian's panzers burst into Slonim, blocking the only good road In Byelorussia's landscape controlling a single road like Other lines of retreat simply didn't exist. German panzer groups Their commanders tried to find weak points moving fast and threatening To maintain momentum they simply These were dealt with by infantry divisions Armoured cars and motorcycles accompanied Reconnaissance units led the way, Finally, close co-operation with Luftwaffe in 1941, an unparalleled offensive force. Guderian and Hoth, commanding were advancing on Moscow. Minsk was the new priority. they saw Moscow as the grand prize. But both reluctantly diverted to help complete the encirclement Minsk had been bombed since From its ruins, huge columns of black Now Hoth's tanks were First they would have to fight their way But when one of Hoth's divisions it was immediately counterattacked Hoth's panzer group, as he later described, had to "break though Soviet fortified amidst heavy fighting". But the tried-and-tested tactics A German tank platoon normally with its two prongs facing the enemy. This allowed German 50 or 60 tanks across 1000 metres. In 1941, a Soviet division's orders should be spread evenly along the front. This meant 50 German tanks would The German tanks overwhelmed then turned right and left to attack What made the situation even worse for Their staple 45 millimetre antitank of German tanks at very close range. Using superior tactics and weaponry, the Germans broke through after two days of fighting. As German trooped entered the city, Commander of the Soviet Western Front, could Like British and French had been overwhelmed by the speed But he did get As soon as he saw he ordered a retreat to the east It gave many soldiers It was with that hope that his men But for most, there was to be no salvation. One week after the German more than 300,000 Soviet soldiers Some Red Army units were able to fight through lightly-held German Others, including the remnants tried to make their way back to Soviet The rapid German advance meant Most would spend weeks walking through the Around Bialystok and Minsk, who did not make it out They fought on, in a bid to escape the encirclement. They inflicted heavy But finally, two weeks after the invasion, 290,000 Soviet soldiers entered captivity, General Pavlov, his Chief of Staff Major and Commander of the 4th Army General were all arrested on charges of cowardice Under NKVD interrogation citing the enormous difficulties he had The trial's outcome was never in doubt. Pavlov was shot on that same day To the south in Ukraine, managed to evade mass encirclements The Germans advanced between before the disaster at Minsk forced the Red German High Command was in high spirits Surely, it was thought, the Russians tanks and aircraft. Soviet collapse Franz Halder, Head of the "It would be no exaggeration to say has been won in the first 14 days." The Germans' next objective was Smolensk... For a start, German forces for the early battles on the frontier. Now their forces were spread out Secondly, Soviet reserve armies They played no part in the early fighting, but now stood ready on the banks Guderian and Hoth's panzer groups Their mission was to advance far ahead of But soon Guderian's from fresh Soviet armies arriving Guderian was forced onto the defensive. Soon Hoth also had to switch to defence. A Soviet counterattack forced his men It was the first Russian city The speed of their advance Not until the main force of the German Army Group North had also run into trouble. The assault on Novgorod Moreover, the German 8th Panzer Division and had to fight its way out. A German officer recorded in his diary, "We have no sensation of entering Instead we have resistance, permanent By August the Red Army had somehow A front line was re-established, allowing thousands of stragglers After struggling through forests the remnants of Kuznetsov's army There were many such stragglers in groups of a dozen, Meanwhile Guderian was preparing On 21st August his units were at their But the same day Hitler issued a directive General Halder would describe it as the Army Group Centre was refused Instead, Hoth was ordered north Guderian was ordered south to assist the Guderian immediately flew to Berlin In person, he forcefully made his case that In his memoirs Guderian wrote: "I pointed out the serious consequences if operations in the south dragged on then it would be too late Hitler and the Army High Command Summer was already drawing to a close against the flank of the Soviet If he could reach the German-held the Red Army forces defending Kiev After his escape General Kuznetsov had been put His troops were right in the path The Soviet High Command to fight it out along the Dnieper River, if the line was breached -- to buy their troops some breathing space. In the end, it was decided to abandon without a fight. A close watch was kept on But in August, The main threat to the South-Western seemed to be from far to the south on the lower By August 1941, the Red Army Its mechanized units had been annihilated Kuznetsov's 21st Army, for example, Kuznetsov's weakened 21st Army as they smashed their way towards Guderian was about to cut off all the Soviet It seemed high time to order the troops of But the Soviet High Command hesitated, waiting for the latest information The Germans meanwhile strengthened near the city of Kremenchuk. There they built an enormous Von Kleist's 1st Panzer Group The tanks crossed the Dnieper and joined up The Soviet High Command All troops of the South-Western Front For the Red Army the unfolding disaster it was the largest encirclement An estimated 532,000 troops Only 15 to 20,000 would escape. The fighting in the Kiev pocket dragged on The Red Army's chronic by how many were captured Meanwhile German Army Group Centre, having been stripped fought off large-scale Soviet In these desperate battles For the bravery shown amidst the 100th Rifle Division was awarded General Hoth later wrote: especially amongst the junior officers. The losses were higher and were only partially recovered According to the German the Soviet Union was supposed to collapse But to exhausted German units their final objectives seemed more The Red Army was also desperate. With the the Soviet High Command was forced to throw And now, with the final Guderian, Hoepner and Hoth's panzer groups Of these panzer generals, Guderian would be Hoepner would be dismissed by Hitler Only Papa Hoth would keep his job. Meanwhile offensives near Moscow... and a return to Byelorussia, In 1945, his men would lead the attack And on 1st May 1945, soldiers of the 3rd Assault Army -- Aleksey Berest, would hoist the hammer But for now, the war was And in a few days,