Here we are, deep in the Kreminna forests, it's loud here, and we're working with Azov. This is where they hold the defense... You hear the shots of small arms. We're a few hundred meters away from thefront line in the forests of Kreminna. This is where the legendary &quot;Azov&quot; is standing strong. Right now, we're at the point where pilots are handling drops, aiding our infantry in cutting off the enemy during attempted assaults. We're about to dive into the operations of various units within &quot;Azov,&quot; the same group that played a crucial role in the legendary and challenging Mariupol operation. Some of them have been through russian captivity but returned to their combat duties. Today, you'll witness the &quot;Azov&quot; mortar unit in action and see their medics saving lives right before your eyes. - Angle 4.10. - Scope 54.3. - Fire at one! - Just one? - We scared them off and they scattered. Mission accomplished for now. If they decide to push forward again, we'll be back in action. - Single shots or belt firing? - 4 shots. We are working with &quot;Azov,&quot; and they are currently throwing &quot;VOGs-25&quot; at the enemy infantry. - Were you asked to work now because something happened at the front? - Seems like the guys decided to make an appearance... - Either the enemy emerged from their hiding spots, or we needed to shield the drone that's orchestrating the drop. A couple of scenarios. In this particular case, we were targeting the enemy infantry. - This is the MK-19, Mark - an automatic belt-fed grenade launcher. It runs on a 40mm belt and can comfortably shoot from 2,000 to 1,700 meters. When dealing with windy conditions, we can adjust the barrel to hit our targets precisely. If we spot any movement of enemy personnel, we target their observation points when they expose themselves, detected by the drone.. - We've thrown out 4, another 6, and that's it! We make adjustments with the help of pilots, the drones, or a fire controller, it's either our commander or the guys who have already learned. They see the ruptures on the drone operator's monitor and calculate the correction. What do I like about my job? I enjoy watching the well-executed drone recordings. - I'm in charge of fire correction here, using MK-19, an American automatic grenade launcher with a belt feed and an 82mm mortar. When we first arrived here, they always wanted to advance. Initially, they didn't know Azov had arrived, thinking it was just some brigade. They attempted to storm us at first, but as they found out Azov was here, advancing became difficult for them. Instead, they started heavily shelling us with artillery. - How long have you been with Azov? - Since February 22, 2023. First, I went through basic training, as one should. I watched interviews of the guys and saw that many of them went through captivity and injuries. Azov experienced encirclement and realized that over time, they would need to rotate guys. So, I made the decision to join. In addition, I had acquaintances in Azov who said they give a worthy response to the enemy, so I decided to join. - I finished up the UAV courses, but before that, I gradually learned on my own with comrades who were more experienced in this field. I was in the infantry since the beginning of the full-scale invasion. I was in the city of Mariupol at the beginning of the invasion from the 24th of February to the 16th of May 2022. On the 8th of May, they carried out either 3 or 4 airstrikes. They hit Store &quot;10&quot; first, where support units were staying. An aerial bomb landed there. They also hit Store &quot;20&quot;, where support units and sniper personnel were resting. Almost everyone there died. It also hit my bunker, where I was sleeping at that time. Another guy and I were pulled out from under the debris, but the rest were impossible to rescue. Due to the bomb, the building started collapsing, and that's when I got injured. I ended up in the city of Novoazovsk, then I was transported to Donetsk, temporarily occupied territory of Ukraine, where I was in captivity. It was a relatively light captivity. As a heavily wounded person, I was in the hospital, and that's it. I was exchanged on June 29, 2022, as a heavily wounded person. - What kind of injuries did you have? - A fracture of the pelvis and thigh. We were not given any medical help. We could only ask for a painkiller or some medicine. But there was no full-fledged medical assistance. Until December 2022, the Azov Patronage Service had my back. By the way, donate to the Patronage Service because it genuinely helps Azov and the Third Assault Brigade. It's very important. They managed to get me back on my feet. - In terms of health, could you have avoided military service or not? Or you had to?.. - I didn't have such a heavy captivity as the guys in Olenivka, where their barracks exploded, or the guys in Taganrog. God spared me. I got injured, and I was exchanged as a heavily wounded person. The motivation is still there. How can you just leave after everything that happened? I can't just leave the serivce like that. Moreover, my comrades are already in captivity. I should at least wait for them and then make a decision. But I fully understand those guys not only from Azov but others too, who want to leave after being captured. It's their business. I haven't planned to leave yet. After getting injured, I couldn't go back to the infantry because the injuries made it impossible for me to run. So, now I'm operating drones. - You're currently working alongside people, who went through Mariupol, Azovstal, captivity, and came back to the frontlines. How's it like working alongside such people? - It's motivating because despite their injuries, they keep moving forward. A lot of people who are civilians don't do that. It motivates you even more to work, and you realize that your injuries or situations are not that significant. These folks have endured much more and it could be much worse. It inspires you to work and do your job more effectively. For the guys who can but, for some reason, don't want to go, they need to make a choice now because, unfortunately, we are not immortal. Sooner or later, we'll need replacements. - How old are you? - Radio check!... Come in. - Sure, take your time. - Prepare 2 mines; we'll get to work! - Fire one, once ready. - Roger that. - Who just finished their work? - The 82mm mortar. We targeted the enemy's positions, hitting the same spot that the MK was targeting. We caused some fire damage. - We are ready. Our aerial reconnaissance has spotted the enemy, either holding their ground or making a move towards us. We've gone on active duty. We're here to suppress and destroy the enemy, better to eliminate them. We have several artillery pieces, and we're divided into sectors. Each mortar is responsible for its own sector. Therefore, there isn't much activity here. When the guys operate there, we are silent here, or vice versa. - It goes down at night, during the day, and in the morning. They keep trying to push forward, but it's not working out for them. They get what's coming, and they either back off or stay put. On their side, there's a ton of artillery, mines, shells -- basically, they can afford to keep the action going. As for us, there were brigades working this area before. When we rolled in, the forest was already gone, and they're still knocking it down, you know? Somewhere, it hit a tree or close to a tree. When it's scorching hot, you need a bit for it to catch fire, and boom -- the forest is ablaze. If it's close, you put it out. If not, you head home, and you see it burning here and there. Lots of smoke, makes breathing a challenge. - I've been to Zaporizhzhia region. Here, there's a higher intensity from both sides. Seems like in Zaporizhzhia, we were mainly hitting the enemy hard, and they weren't responding too actively. I'm the ammo guy. I prep the mine for takeoff, that's my deal. And once the mine is good to go, I load the powder, if it's a Soviet mine, I have some more work to do, thne I insert the cartridges, and screw in the detonator. Simply put, it's the American &quot;mortar shell.&quot; Accuracy should be top-notch. - And range? - With our mortar, we can shoot up to 6 km. - Flag, one fire! - Roger that. - Fire! - One is away! - That's it. - Good, 0.4 - Roger that. - We are ready. - Fire! - Why do they say it's a pain to fight in the woods? Is it really tougher to battle in the forest compared to open ground? - Well, for us mortar guys, finding a spot is a bit of a puzzle. It has to be a clear area, no trees messing with our trajectory. Though, it can be arranged. And then there's the sand. If something lands nearby, we get covered, like a sand shower. Trenches aren't as nice as on regular ground. And everything is visible. - Plus, camouflage. In a village, you might set up under a tree or improvise a makeshift shed for better camouflage. It is much better in terms of camouflage there. - Here, you have to be creative to avoid being found. After finishing basic training, I joined the mortar team. Now I'm here, doing my best to give the enemy a hard time. It's a solid unit with great leaders who care about their team. Everything is nice here, so, we joined it to get the job done. That's it. - When they formed the &quot;Advance Guard,&quot; I transferred here from the Territorial Defense Forces, along with the sommander of a mortar team, &quot;Mak&quot;. Unfortunately, one of my buddies is still in captivity. - Is he from &quot;Azov&quot;. He's with the Old Guard, been fighting since 2014. - Any word from your buddy? Well, fingers crossed everything's okay. According to the stories of my friends and comrades, I've heard a lot about the old &quot;Azov,&quot; how legendary it was. Especially considering how they held off the enemy horde at Mariupol. They deserve respect and honor, and you'd have to be a fool not to want to join them. Among the fighters, there are phrases like &quot;how much more can we take?&quot; but in our brigade, it's not that dramatic. We always encourage the guys. It's our job, doing everything for our victory. Personally, I don't feel tired, only towards victory, until the end! Everyone knew who &quot;Azov&quot; was, and we wanted to be part of that. We knew that everyone here is motivated, all volunteers, and we share a common goal. - That was pretty close, huh? - We are in Silver forest, not far from Kreminna. The legendary &quot;Azov&quot; is currently in action here. And it's always like this here. We hear that it gets pretty loud here in the morning, like medium and heavy artillery is firing here all the time. - Yes, that's the norm. Every day kicks off like this. Artillery duels start every morning. We've been in this forest since August. During this time, we've improved our position, reclaimed territory. When we first got here, the forest was still untouched. We kind of liked it at the beginning. But on the first day, when we were approaching our positions, an FPV drone hit the car. I landed unded ther car but everyone survived. We made it out of the woods without injury. But over these months, the forest has changed a lot, becoming bare. - Heading over to the &quot;Azov&quot; company support point. - I'm infantry. Things are quiet in our direction; we're not spotting them directly. The drone relays small movements. Though they don't get any closer, sometimes they get lost. Sometimes they slip through our position. We were able to catch them straight. They just come in groups, and our artillery and mortars fend them off. - Commanders keep telling that fighting in the forest is a challenge. As an infantryman, someone right on the front lines, why is it tougher in the forest? - The visibility of the enemy is terrible, thick forest, and the terrain is just brutal. It takes a good deal of effort to reach positions. Working here is no walk in the park, as there is sand. Sand keeps falling, and we're constantly working. - Digging? I had this dream of joining 'Azov' for about 4 years. When I finally made it to the 'Azov' training center, I was 19. I would've gone at 18, as I was preparing for this. But my parents insisted on finishing college first. I wanted to be a part of 'Azov' because they're like family. - People might call us &quot;crazy,&quot; but the worse things get, the more alive and needed you feel. When the fight is over and you step out of the cold into the warmth, you feel really alive. When it's cold, you're like... Civilians just don't get it. You're cold, so you screw on a battery, and voila, you're warm. But here, to warm up, you've got to put in so much more... You really find happiness in the little things, absolutely in everything. You had a smoke, had a cup of coffee, and, overall, didn't kick the bucket - that's pretty cool. Civilians just don't get us in this. Even our families don't quite get it. They may ask, &quot;Do you need this or that?&quot; - Nah, I don't need it here. It's something secondary, not genuine joy. - I joined 'Azov' back in 2017 and took part in the 'Mariupol Campaign.' I'm glad I went through it all with this unit. I was captured and exchanged on September 21. After going through a few months of rehab, I haven't had any serious health complications, I passed the medical examination, saying, &quot;I'm ready to fight again.&quot; And they signed me back into service. The year 2022 felt like Groundhog Day - war, capture, you know how it goes. Initially, the forest had a different vibe because the enemy wasn't expecting 'Azov' to set up here. They were more relaxed. However, when we announced that 'Azov' would be here, they brought in personnel, equipment, artillery, tanks - everything. The aviation became more active. Knowing how other military units operate, a soldier usually can't approach a commander and suggest something about battle tactics or overall routine. It's more like 'follow my orders' in most places. But 'Azov' flips that script. Any soldier can walk up to a platoon commander or higher with suggestions regarding our service. Even if it's an incorrect idea, no one will condemn him for it. Out of every seemingly crazy idea, something good might just pop up. A lot of the cool stuff 'Azov' introduces comes straight from the soldiers themselves. They have a better understanding of combat actions than any commander. Sure, we spend time with them on the front lines, but it's not like our command staff is camping out there 24/7. We treat our soldiers with the utmost respect, always listen to what they've got to say. We get senior assault group members involved in planning assaults. - Looks like they were aiming straight at us, targeting trenches... - Yeah, in that grid, through the field... - There was a flash, about 600 meters out... - Through the filed, they were aiming straight at us... - First flash, and then the second one. - They fancy using AGS-17 around here. It might not always kill, but it sure puts people out. Those tiny fragments put soldiers out for at least 2 weeks. - AGS hit a bunch of guys the other day. Four of them are out of their positions now. - The enemy keeps coming at us, never giving up on trying to break through our defenses. Our sandbag positions struggle to handle the explosions, even if a 152mm shell drops a few dozen meters away, it messes up the trench. We are strengthening our positions, but after the shelling everything gets buried, and it's a real challenge to keep our ground. And talking about the forest, well, there's barely any left. All the trees are cut down, offering minimal cover. Moving around is a real workout - you've got fallen trees everywhere, and you're constantly climbing over them, crawling through the mess. Moving through the forest is physically demanding. And it's impossible to fortify the soil on the sand. The sand crumbles very often. The job never seems to end; we're always on the grind. - It's tough, but we're handling it. We need to dig, dig, and dig again. The trench protects us about 95 percent from shrapnel and injuries. A trench in the forest is the best shelter. - When I found out which front line sector I'm heading to with my group I immediately started calling my buddies, who fought here, and they were like, &quot;Ohhh.&quot; They groaned, saying it's a bit challenging there. Challenging in the sense that it's a wooded area. Tanks and vehicles won't work here much. You can't do maneuvers either. One tank or an armored vehicle is at the limit of our capabilities. But one tank in our reality doesn't solve anything critical. You also can't do maneuvers with large groups, only small groups, sabotage teams is the only way out. The enemy also has a colossal advantage in artillery here, a colossal one. The enemy tried with infantry, but it didn't work, so he just adopted the tactic of leveling everything with artillery. On one position, they target 100-120 mines a day. That's a colossal amount. - Yeah, we were here with the mortar yesterday, and we heard constant heavy arrivals. Based on the sound, these were unguided rockets, Grad rockets, - Even Pions or something like that? Yeah, but not only do they use artillery, they also use aviation. They're just pouring the forest with KAB-500s. Frankly speaking, they lose with infantry, but they've got more artillery. There are areas where there's almost no forest left, just small matchsticks and a lunar surface. But, we win in the tactics of using means. - Hmm, hmm, let's get to work here. Now we'll work with the UAV crew, handling drops and helping our infantry cut off the enemy. - We're aiming to hit their bunkers, covers, and similar targets. - Approaching the target! - Explosion... - That's ours. - Was that ours? - The enemy digs pretty darn well, it's no secret. We try our best not to let them expand, deepen, and carry out their engineering work using drops. - They dig positions overnight, and during the day, we dismantle them, and they dig them again. The same story today: we targeted the positions, they dug in overnight, we worked again, and at night, they will rebuild. Whether the assaults are coming from our side or the enemy's, we work constantly, non-stop, because it greatly helps our guys. - If this is our assault and the enemy comes out, we target the frontline positions. If it's an enemy assault, and they're gathering their troops, further from the battle line, we try to intercept these groups before they reach our front lines. In the last two weeks, there was a sort of assault. They tried to break through but failed. We engaged in practice, and they started retreating. It seems like panic sets in -- they enter and don't know where to go and hide. After my drop, an enemy soldier shot himself. He just took out his rifle and shot himself. When we try to target specific objectives, they, as in any of their wars - Chechnya, Syria, wherever they've been - resort to carpet bombings. Not necessarily pinpointing our guys but covering areas in squares. - Evacuating the wounded becomes a challenge if it's needed. With a serious injury, we can't remove the tourniquet on our own, and even evacuating from the front lines to the rear takes an hour, with an additional two hours to get out of the forest. It's a problem. But finding a solution seems impossible. - He's almost stable. All shrapnel injuries, with hypothermia! - Plus, roger that! We're loading onto the medical evacuation with Azov medics, who evacuate the wounded directly from the combat zone. - Oh, explosions nearby, greetings to 152. This sector is often shelled, as they know we're taking people from here. We have much fun working on the front line. They constantly shell us there. We're not just working on the ambulance but on the case. - Turn him around. Place him on the sand. [Indistinct] - That's it, guys! Good luck! - Should we pass him as a red one? - That will do. - Stable red. [Indistinct] - He has minor shrapnel injuries, and the most significant danger is hypothermia. He spent a long time in the cold with injuries, and this could have affected him negatively. Sensation was reduced, and in certain areas, it was absent. The crucial point was to restore them through warmth and heating. The key was to warm him up, and we're doing that with warm solutions. The heater in the car was turned on to maximum. We had thermal blankets to give him that much-needed warmth. Upon arrival at the hospital, he was already feeling some sensations returning in his limbs. I haven't been fighting long. Not because things didn't work out... I knew I'd end up here. I knew that I wanted to join the Army. I knew I would go to war even before it started. I knew there would be war, I had no doubt that the invasion and the war would take place. I was prepared for that, so I bought a uniform and hid it so that my family wouldn't know. That's the way it worked out. It was just a matter of deciding which unit to join. Then came the conscription, and that was it. Ever since the unit arrived here, I joined within two months, and I've been on the frontline throughout this period. I transferred here from the ER where I worked for 16 years. I was used to taking things easy. Even here they say, &quot;Why aren't you afraid? They're targeting us&quot;, and you're just sitting there, putting in an IV... You can die anywhere, even in civilian medicine when you go on an out-of-town call. The probability is higher here, but you just need to do your job, and do your job well. Men should not hide. - In Azov, a powerful tactical medicine has historically developed, which we have been developing for many years, introducing international standards in 2016-2017. And it showed very high results during the battles. In Mariupol itself, many people survived because they knew how to do it. Now the situation has changed for many reasons, much of the personnel, unfortunately, have died, many were and are in captivity. Though &quot;Azov&quot; was not formed from scratch, many current soldiers joined &quot;Azov&quot; in 2022. We are basically renewing and expanding the brigade. Moreover, we are expanding quantitatively and qualitatively. We suffered a slight decline in training levels, and now we are actively working to rectify this situation. The main task currently set here is to restore the level of training for personnel in tactical medicine to the level we had before the full-scale war. - The largest number of deaths or injuries in Ukraine is due to what? - If we are talking about preventable deaths, deaths that could be prevented by correct actions in combat trauma -- the absolute majority are due to massive bleeding or its consequences. One of the most common consequences is hemorrhagic shock. Ukraine as a state has recognized that the actions to be taken when a person has lost a lot of blood and is in decompensated shock are to replenish that blood. We acknowledged this at the state level, but a small number of brigades still actively use blood. - Blood is crucial. If it weren't for the blood we get from the medics - &quot;Weirdo&quot;, &quot;Rina&quot; - the survival rate of the guys would be critically low. Blood gives us the time to get them to doctors who can professionally take care of them. Because &quot;CASE,&quot; &quot;Medevac&quot; doesn't provide them with what they need. Blood gives them a chance to survive. There are medical solutions that can be infused other than blood, not plasma, some fluids... We can transport the person alive, but the person will die there, on the operating table. Doctors may tell you that in detail. Blood provides a chance to survive, and a very significant one. - Some brigades don't transfuse blood, especially during the transportation stage, because people often have a clinical mindset like, Well, I brought him alive,&quot; &quot;He was alive when he was with me.&quot; People don't think ahead for 2, 3 days, 30 days. We monitor each of our wounded who received blood transfusions, and we can say that no negative consequences of blood transfusion have been recorded yet. Here are the stories we still hear among the chief medics: &quot;Oh, we delivered him, and that's the end of our story&quot; -- to the stabilization point, medevac, hospital, and that's it. No, friends, your work is not done there. You need to know what happened to the wounded later on. You need to know if your help was effective, to what extent, and what the problem was. Negative experiences are good experiences. You have to learn from your mistakes. You need to know what went wrong. You need to collect data, analyze it, and do it right next time. Everyone makes mistakes, and they need to be analyzed to be prevented in the future, or better yet, share them with the community. - In situations with extensive blood loss and considering factors like evacuation routes, weather conditions, hyponatremia is very bad for blood clotting. And when dealing with uncontrolled internal bleeding along with low body temperature, hypothermia, it's tough to do something. When you're providing a blood substitute, it carries some oxygen, even if blood is being lost into the abdominal cavity, it still enters the bloodstream and performs its function. - When we talk about the necessity of blood for the wounded, it's needed as quickly as possible. As a medical service concerned about our injured, we must bring the blood as close to the wounded as possible using all available technical and training methods, so the staff can effectively work with it. This is the skill that combat medics in NATO armies possess -- people without medical education who have been trained. It's part of their preparation, that's the skill they have. There was often a dismissive tone, &quot;What? Doing blood transfusions in the trench?&quot; My reaction was genuine, childlike joy -- blood transfusions in the trench! - Everything will be fine, buddy! - Don't worry. We injected the medication, and that's ok. - A drone is above us. - The mission was clear: reclaim specific territories. We had active offensive actions. To achieve this goal, a sorting center was organized at the front line. For the first time, we decided to perform a blood transfusion so close to the demarcation line, just to have that option available if needed. And, as fate would have it, we faced such a situation. There was a young man who got injured in the arm, with shrapnel making its way into his chest and eventually lodging in his liver. He was in shock, I would say. The first degree of shock that floated into the second degree. Given the damage to the chest and, as it turned out later, the abdominal cavity, there could have been internal bleeding. And vital signs such as pulse, capillary pressure, and skin condition indicated that the person was in shock. Since he needed further transportation, which would take time, the decision was made to perform a blood transfusion. - On the spot? I was there with &quot;Wierdo,&quot; our chief medic, and he prepared the blood vial while I established intravenous access. We had equipment for blood transfusion. We had a refrigerator on hand for its safe transportation. He got the blood ready, and I got the patient ready for the transfusion. There were other guys helping with the evacuation from the front line. They were involved and helped. It was a real team effort. This approach is practical, it works, and it can be applied to prevent more casualties and save more fighters, ensuring our fighters return home in one piece and healthy, ready to keep up the fight in a good mood. - It's high time we recognized the need to heavily invest in training our military personnel and supporting them during their recovery. This person needs to get back on track, for they has experience and understanding of the tactics. If we do not prepare a fighter as a professional, all the invested resources, both human and financial, might be lost after 2-3 weeks of combat. The fighter may die or be wounded. We'd then need to find a new fighter, initiate recruiting, find, bring, and train them -- Why go through that when a well-prepared fighter lives much longer? The army is a long-term investment project on a large national scale. I just wanted to drop a quick note to say I love your channel - you guys, the kitties, bunnies - greetings to everyone! - What were you doing before becoming a medic with &quot;Azov&quot;? - Architecture. I have two degrees, one in medicine and the other in architecture. When I was finishing my medical studies, I realized that it wasn't my calling. I loved drawing and such stuff more, so I obtained an architectural education. Gradually, I started practicing it and gaining momentum, and in 2013-2014, I understood, &quot;Hey, dude, pack your bags.&quot; Fate intervened, and my military experience turned out to be much greater than my architectural one. I had time to do some design work before the war started in 2014, and I also tried a little bit in the interim. - For example, what did you build, design? - In most cases, these were interiors. I haven't reached the point of greater architecture yet. There was also some minor architecture, but everything unfortunately remained at the level of a concept. 2022 came along and a lot of things dropped out. I was involved in the design of Google's office plans, working on a project for their upcoming office. I'm not sure if it's opened yet or not. I should look into that. - You've been in the war for ten years, right? - Nine years. - Since 2015. In 2015, a friend and I completed one project. We celebrated its completion, shook hands with the clients, and a week later, I assembled a portfolio, went to the recruiting center to apply for &quot;Azov&quot;. At some point, I realized, &quot;Hey, you have a medical education, you know and can do something, so you can be useful,&quot; and off I went. A dramatic moment, cool! - That happens here? - Yes, they will turn on the generator. On February 24th, I woke up an hour before the alarm, grabbed my famly, hid them, and headed to Mariupol. And I went through everything there. I experienced the whole story. An interesting analogy, Do you recall Tom Hanks in the movie &quot;Inferno&quot; with those flashbacks while he was walking around the city, body parts emerging from the ground, people burning, all in chaos? It felt somewhat similar. The chaos was at its peak. - At that time, were you involved in rescuing people there? They assigned me to a unit not directly part of &quot;Azov,&quot; but it was a mix of &quot;Azov&quot; fighters, the Armed Forces of Ukraine, and border guards. We didn't expect an offensive from that side, and it turned out a bit differently. I had to build an evacuation team from scratch, managing the crew and providing medical assistance on my own. I was dealing with practical administrative functions. But with the offensive and losses, it all started to break down. Everyone was involved in everything... - It was impossible to change people, support them and evacuate. Every 2-3 minutes something exploded. They targeted you from 360 degrees. It was like a &quot;tasty pie,&quot; and they sent everything at you, from AGS-17, that were relatively close to &quot;Azovstal&quot;, to aviation and naval artillery. Moving around &quot;Azovstal&quot; was quite a quest to avoid getting hit. It was helpful that we had the same caliber as the enemy, and we could take their ammunition after they were destroyed. We also took their small arms and grenades. People were exhausted both physically and mentally. There were more and more wounded. There were fewer and fewer medicines. So it was the right decision to save lives. - Where did you end up after &quot;Azovstal&quot;? - To Olenivka. Afterward, some guys were further transferred. Some went directly to russia, others to the temporarily uncontrolled territory of Donetsk region. Captivity is not something good, especially captivity in russia. It was tough, no doubt. Some had it rougher, some had it easier. You're always under psychological and mental strain. Shortages of food and meds running low -- it's the bare minimum of what everyone has experienced. Then personal tales like &quot;did they torture you or not.&quot; - I went through this 'contest' - almost a year in captivity in Olenivka, then Taganrog. Almost one year. In May of this year, I was exchanged. I gathered myself together, got some medical treatment, rehabilitated - probably, I'm not sure. And I've been serving here for a few months now. Soldiers of &quot;Azov&quot;, and others - those who ended up in captivity after Mariupol, following Azovstal - share a similar experience, the only distinctions lie in the details. The conditions were downright awful, poor treatment, torture, beatings - the usual ordeal. Those who endured captivity just laugh about it now, recounting stories like, &quot;They did this to me or that to me.&quot; And then we are sitting sweaty like this. Now you get why I'm not eager to chat with those without military experience on these topics. With non-military, there's often a complete lack of understanding. At some point, I even stopped broaching these topics with those not associated with military actions. Even when someone asks, &quot;So, what's up on the front line?&quot; I answer no more than, &quot;Everything is fine, dude.&quot; Because when you talk about certain things, even daily routine, the typical reaction is like that. Support the army, support your friends in various units. You have to understand that it's a story you can't escape from. Sooner or later, it touches everyone. It's not gonna be like the good old days. I run into people a lot, saying, &quot;I wanna live my best life,&quot; &quot;I wish things were how they used to be.&quot; I genuinely feel sorry for them as they potentially face significant existential problems because they dream of a utopia. If someone can't accept that reality, well, okay. It's a lot simpler when you embrace stoicism and say, &quot;Well, yes, we're living in these times, let's figure out how to navigate it.&quot; Unfortunately, many people are stuck in the mindset of &quot;Oh, I wish life was like it used to be,&quot; but that's just not happening. - This battle-hardened &quot;Azov&quot; from &quot;Azovstal,&quot; the one that tugged at our hearts when you were there, is it back to take down the enemy? - To destroy or, paradoxically, even save them. I personally provided assistance to captive russians at this very table. I even have photos. - How do you manage that after being held captive and tortured? - I see it as my subconscious trying to stand up to them. After the way they treated us, especially when we had problems, including medical issues - either they didn't offer any assistance or punished us for needing it. Sometimes they provided assistance, but to such a small extent that it could be said to be non-existent. I realized I didn't want to be like that. I have deep hatred for russians, but no hatred for those who are unarmed. - We're all here, maybe russians will understand if they watch it, because we still have friends and family in captivity, and until we bring them back, no one is giving up. Then there's Olenivka. Olenivka was a crucial point. I always say, if someone talks about brotherly nations, just show them Olenivka, Bucha, Mariupol. Olenivka is critical for us because Azov soldiers were involved. The guys who died there were legendary fighters. It's like they could make a movie about their lives. But the guys just got hit hard, blown up, and burned there. That's just frustrating. It's a matter of principle. And thirdly, we need to finish this. Frankly speaking, I don't want my children growing up abroad. And if we don't finish this, I don't want children growing up in this chaos. I've invested so much of my health and effort, and also my family... well, they have a son like me, sorry. I love them very much. I don't want them to live like this. I'm 29 years old, and I've spent 9 years doing whatever I can to help. - Our unit is mostly made up of young motivated guys, really young guys who haven't experienced enough of life yet, haven't started families. Meanwhile, healthy men are hiding, knowing their laws, they say, &quot;You don't have the right, etc.&quot; If you're Ukrainian, and your passport says Ukrainian, go fight, as your country is under attack. - You can't throw in the towel right away. If this counteroffensive didn't work, it didn't. At the battalion level, if an operation fails, we sit down and analyze what went wrong, what needs to be done so that next time it works out for us. Well, the fact that it's tough now... Believe me, is not any easier for the enemy. Just count how much equipment and resources the enemy lost in Bakhmut, how much more they lose in Avdiivka. That much. They are losing exponentially. Much more. Both in human resources and in equipment. Believe me, we lost less. Yes, I must admit there are losses, but fewer. Just understand from a military point of view, how many resources they poured into that?! I talk to the guys. A morning of an FPV operator starts with drinking coffee, and just when they're sipping it, they hit another russian tank. Frankly speaking, the enemy is suffering significant losses, and not only on the Avdiivka front but also on the Kupiansk direction. Our FPV drones could hit about 10 vehicles a day. Now everyone's feeling down because the counteroffensive didn't work, as they pushed us a bit here and there, well, consider that the enemy doesn't have reserves anymore. They used to be able to afford leaving 2-3 armies in reserve, but not anymore. People are getting anxious, as draft dodgers are already being caught in gyms. I tell them it's just a matter of time, that we'll all be in the fight. I'm not saying everyone has to be an infantryman or an assault trooper. It's the ones using their brains who are making more impact now. Let's be frank. Even nowadays it's difficult to find a good FPV drone operator. It's tough. A skilled FPV drone operator isn't just someone who's taken a course. It's about having those human qualities like cleverness, initiative, and whatnot, you know? These are the folks who dig in, search, and come up with something new. These smart folks are driving all the progress now. As for this depressive state, we'll get through it. Spring will roll in. With 2-3 successful operations, everything will normalize. It has to be okay. We've sacrificed a lot of lives and health for this. We just need to push through a bit. - The new chapter of Ukrainian history is unfolding, and it's not just any writing - it's in the Ukrainian language. That's cool. Everyone has a role to play. Not necessarily everyone needs to fire. Some drive trucks, so drive trucks, provide support. Some dig, secure rear positions - those need digging. Some are IT specialists. Others filmed weddings, so swing by and capture &quot;death to the enemies.&quot; Eternal Glory to the &quot;Mishania&quot; and all the TO BE A WARRIOR IS TO LIVE FOREVER! This ongoing cycle of &quot;challenging times created by the weak.&quot; We are, in fact, the result of this pattern, we are living in difficult times created by previous generations. These challenging times have already given rise to an entire generation of really strong individuals. It's only natural that good times are ahead. For anyone who didn't grasp that it'll be a tough but incredibly intriguing journey, well, let me tell you, it'll be challenging yet incredibly fascinating! Personally, this motivates me to stay alive, to see what comes next. We're living in a remarkable era, and I just want to express my gratitude for being part of it. It's incredibly captivating.