We talk about a lot of big structures on this the roads, dams, sewage lift stations, and every there's almost nothing more fun than watching better when you know what all those machines something a little bit different. I'm Grady, and [musical transition] A big part of construction is just shifting around you know how limited human effort is in complete without at least one excavator because the heavy steel bucket of an excavator guy or girl with a single scoop. than just digging. They are a lifter, A skid steer is second only to an excavator machines are often equipped with a bucket, but While there are often purpose built none of them can convert from loader to mower and in tight confined spaces, a A loader is one in many machines a distance. They're often articulated in large bucket on the front for lifting and dumping. They're meant to carry materials over short Longer hauls use a dump truck. These trucks repeated loading with various heavy materials. A that can lift the bed, tilting it at a steep back.. Since dump trucks carry heavy loads, lots to distribute the weight over more tires and keep weight limits. Articulated haulers are dump If you want to move a lot of soil another option is a scraper. Rather than these machines do it all in one. A huge a hopper. It's carried directly to where it's and these are often used on large Another Swiss army knife of the construction yard is the backhoe that is kind of a Great for small sites where it doesn't And don't forget the bulldozer that specializes in material over large distances, but they can spread The last stop on the digging train is the and sizes, but ultimately they all specialize Many use a tooth chain like a By the way, there are about a hundred every piece of large equipment. and countries use different words for the same sound like a pro is just to add the drive a loader, it's a wheel loader, or a tracked Roadwork is something we've all seen, and stuck in a traffic jam from it, roads might be modern lives depend on them, and it takes A grader is technically an earthwork tool, but it's used mostly on roadways. The extra precisely leveling surfaces and evening Once all that soil is in the right place, settle over time. A roller compactor are a few varieties of these depending on the for most soils and asphalt. Sheep's foot and on clay and silt. Pneumatic tire rollers are of roller compactors have a vibration An asphalt paver is the machine where is loaded into the machine, which the subgrade using a screed. Many follows a stringline as a reference to the If we're talking about making a road out a slip former. It's usually more efficient and curbs, and highway barriers are installed casting them in batches. Careful control form machine to create long concrete If we just added another layer of pavement to pretty soon, we'd have walls! Roads are so removing the top layer isn't easy. That's specialized tools grind and remove the material is routed up a conveyor system and It's actually fairly common to see multiple like this. An interesting example is we have a dump truck full of asphalt fresh from which continuously lays a layer of asphalt that on the ground also continuously monitor the Not everything at a construction site A lot of equipment gets hauled in on a trailer, work outside of daylight hours, illuminating the An air compressor enables the use of lots sandblasters, and painting rigs. If you need diesel generators offer access to power So far, the actual material we've seen is in bulk the materials we need to lift or move pipes. For that you need a crane or This is a pipe layer. The name is a bit confusing often called pipe layers. And it's no surprise handling large sections of pipe and precisely A telescopic handler, or a telehandler forklift. The boom can have attachments and it telescopes to make it easy to deliver If you happen to be the load that needs or its cousin, the scissor lift. The operator on it, allowing for very positioning and usually safer, than a ladder. Another which has a boom lift in the back, used a Stepping up in size, we have If you've passed a giant crane driving since most other types of cranes have to be As the name implies, all-terrain paved surfaces to get to work. However, you need a rough-terrain crane. The giant have them transported, but once rolling, they can If the crane you're looking at is mounted heavy-duty cranes, while slower and bulkier than transport to job sites, can carry immense loads cranes we've seen so far. Most crawler cranes can lengths of booms, amounts of counterweight, configuration is for demolition where a crawler Most can move from place to place, but not horizontal booms with an integrated operator cab cranes we've seen so far, these come in a wide almost a construction project themselves One way to build bridges uses a specialized have heard the term gantry before for a all kinds of industries. A launching of the bridge as a base and often lifts Turning from the sky and looking underground, let's talk about a few The biggest and heaviest structures are supported if the usable soil is just clay for hundreds or piles below a heavy structure can keep it install a pile is to dig a very deep hole, place the whole thing with concrete. This is the exact large-scale drills are pretty closely related to Another way to install piles is the job of a pile driver. Just like the name or concrete piles to sink Speaking of concrete, there's a whole specifically designed to handle, transport, probably seen a mixer truck before, and I'll even though cement is just one of The truck can be loaded with dry materials the job site, since concrete generally has Concrete is often placed directly from the truck way. Concrete pumps are used to pump concrete to a truck, often with a huge overhead boom. Since these pumps operate at extremely high pressures, Finishing concrete is mostly a hand-tool job, but trowels, that speed up the job of floating Big jobs with lots of concrete might just This is helpful if you need to produce vast way that would be too inconvenient or maybe Sometimes concrete needs to be placed on a sloped shore up a tunnel, or even just install a pool! sprayed concrete is shotcrete (although some machines use compressed air to apply concrete to When projects require the installation of new already built up, the traditional method of job calls for a directional drilling machine. they are anything but uninteresting. to talk about how they work, and bit below the ground. Go check that out Hopefully there have been a few machines in the I have a few more specialized machines you Fans of the channel might recognize a soil nail or less horizontal shafts in an earthen slope and Jobs that require grout often use mobile batch ground into the ground at high pressures using a A wick drain machine installs prefabricated intervals to speed up drainage of water inevitable settling of the soil so One option for repairing existing pipelines in lining. Inverting a liner impregnated with air pressure essentially puts a brand One of the least boring machines that is a tunnel boring machine. These behemoths use a by a material removal and shoring installation Obviously I can't be exhaustive here. The There is such a variety in the type and scale of with new and improved equipment that can get a outside of construction use heavy machinery, Let me know what you think I missed or if you But I think this is a good starting point and I hope it's exhaustive enough that if you can puzzle out its purpose on your construction spotting anyway, so get out there I am obviously fascinated by the machines environment, from the oldest to the most lot of the differences we see in vehicles doing a very specific task. For example, my just released a video all about maglev trains, and speed maglev line in the world, even though train travel. I had no idea how travel time Maybe you've noticed what I have over the past running reality shows, and the best video content independent creators. There's just something about their topic instead of being told what to numbers. You can catch the Real Engineering video eventually, but if you want to watch it right now You've heard me talk about Nebula before. It's the best channels on YouTube didn't have to cater to through a subscription instead of supporting better and better: totally ad-free videos from and specials that can't be found anywhere else, Sam from Wendover Productions and Jet Lag. And by using the link below. That's less than $3 a My videos go live on Nebula the day before they one is what you do for fun, you should upgrade free like it is right now at the link below. Thank