Osaka, Japan Opened in 2014 Good morning 6:59 Buys ingredients at the market and arrives at work 15 seats in total, including counter and tables Starting preparations right away Marinating the pork Chicken bones for soup Washing each one carefully Staff member) Do you wash each one individually? These are called the neck and body carcasses, and are the neck and body parts (of the chicken). They make a different broth, but the body carcasses have the innards attached. You need to remove them properly to make a clean broth. This is the body. This is the neck. Staff) Do you make the soup only from chicken bones? It's 100% chicken bones now. When we first opened, we used a lot of different things Now we use 100% chicken bones Staff) Is there a reason for that? At first, I was just adding and adding and I did it for years Halfway through, I started subtracting and I got closer to my ideal taste I've recently come to the conclusion that the more I subtract and the simpler it becomes, the better Pork belly Cut into individual parts Cut into the appropriate size for your needs Even within pork belly, it's like the fatty and lean parts of tuna There are fat and lean parts Cut them into appropriate sizes The parts for Takaida ramen and the cheesy ones for regular ramen Also, it goes as a char siu topping To do this, we separate them into different parts Cooking string Tie up the char siu Staff) You put (red meat) inside and roll it up To make it well balanced, I roll it up On the other hand, I add fat to the less fatty areas So that when I cut it into slices, there's just enough fat in it This is just a pre-boil Skip off excess fat and blood While the pork is parboiling, cut the already-made pork slices Cut the pork slices for the pork slices bowl Skip off the scum from the chicken broth The soup is starting to look clean The parboiled pork is done in just under an hour Remove and rinse with water Stew in a soy sauce-based sauce to let the flavor soak in Cook about 70% of the way through, then simmer thoroughly in soy sauce (The sauce) has been topped up for about 10 years Then, simmer for a few hours, 8:51 The shop front is cleaned up. Staff member) What is the origin of the name of your shop? The origin of the name is embarrassing... It's one character each from my name and my wife's name It's not embarrassing at all The employees are also at work Washing rice I'm going to make boiled eggs now! It's a bit half-cooked Marinated in soy sauce 9:15 Homemade soy sauce sauce for ramen The soy sauce sauce contains pork stock and a few aromatic vegetables The soup is brewed in two stages, and then heated again to make it smoother. This is the dark soy sauce made with tamari soy sauce. This is boiled down for about five hours to give it more body. We add various touches to it so that it becomes darker in color. The soup is boiled for about two hours. I don't usually use this, but and it uses back fat Staff) Do you often have ramen that is only available today I don't do it every week, but I try to do it as much as possible. We have a lot of regulars, so the people who come here come every day. I try to make sure they enjoy it and don't get bored. I grill the char siu for the limited menu. I strain the back fat. The menu is always handwritten by the manager Staff) It's not photocopied, I like writing these I'm particular about writing by hand 10:53 11:00 Open Limited menu The standard menu is six types of shoyu ramen Basic flavor Light Spicy Den-den Black Limited Den-den Black passes through Fully booked within 2 minutes of opening Chili pepper Chinese chives Back fat Garlic Sorry for the wait Slurping it up deliciously Mini char siu bowl Heavy made with tamari soy sauce Special menu for the day There were a lot of regulars that day Staff member) Do you come to the restaurant often? You've been coming here for almost two years. That's a long time. Staff member) What did you order today? Today I'm having &quot;Den Den Black&quot; All the dishes the manager makes are delicious, Today it's a limited edition Staff member) Do you come here often? I come here at least once a week. Staff member) What is your most recommended menu item? They're all delicious, so it's hard to choose one. When there's no special offer, I eat the regular menu. When there's special offer, I try to get the special offer as much as possible. The owner is a hard-working guy, so he doesn't cut corners. Special offer: Black Den-den 950 yen. A rich shoyu ramen with a strong flavor of back fat and garlic The melted egg yolk adds a mellowness that makes it the best The flavors are different, but they are all shoyu ramen Staff) The noodles change depending on the type of ramen, don't they? I usually use three different types Basic thin noodles and medium-thick noodles And in addition to that, today we have four types of noodles We have prepared noodles that go well with the soup Right straight done The basic &quot;right straight&quot; and the simple &quot;razor punch&quot; This is the Razor Punch 11:53 There's a line outside the restaurant This is the spicy shoyu ramen This is the spicy ramen hook Staff member) What did you order today? Left hook I've been here quite a bit It's stimulating It's so delicious that it's almost crazy to eat it every week After that, I got various orders for Shoyu Ramen Takaida Cross 800 yen Staff) What did you order? A large serving of Razor Punch I'll have a large serving of Takaida Cross Staff) Do you always order the same thing? Let's go through the menu Staff) What's your favorite? I like Razor Punch Light and delicious Razor Punch is the lightest and lightest of the six types Razor Punch 800 yen Popular with women and foreigners Happily slurping down a large serving Heavy customer This guy is having a strong &quot;heavy&quot; with rice... And this guy... Staff member) What did you order? Right straight This is always it This is definitely it &quot;Unchained Custom&quot; Strong and a popular order among regulars Right Straight Unchained Custom Strong flavor goes well with rice This is what I've been doing lately It's the best 12:35 The black one is the basic flavor &quot;right straight&quot; This is our basic flavor &quot;right straight&quot; Basic flavor: &quot;Right Straight&quot; &quot;Razor Punch&quot; large serving I'm &quot;Naniwa no Joe&quot; Staff member) What does it taste like? Naniwa Joe is a traditional restaurant Staff) Do you come here often? About three times a month Staff) You come here quite a lot It's delicious! Staff) What do you recommend the most? Actually, there are three types: &quot;Right Straight&quot;, &quot;Razor Punch&quot;, and &quot;Naniwa Joe&quot;. It's difficult, isn't it? These guys here also seem to be struggling with what to order. They came here yesterday too. Staff member) What do you recommend the most? I want you to try the right one too In the end, the right one is the one I eat the most No off-flavors, always delicious Right Straight 850 yen The basic flavor of the restaurant The noodles are straight and thin. After much deliberation, the staff decided to try the right one. This is it, with no off-flavors! A classic shoyu ramen After much deliberation, the guy decided to go for the limited edition instead of the one on the right 13:28 It's Kaji from Unchained The creator of Unchained Custom, former pro boxer Kaji from Unchained, came to the store Former professional boxer Unchained Kaji Before I knew about this place, I thought ramen had to be tonkotsu I thought it had to be tonkotsu When I first tried it, I thought, &quot;Wow, this is it!&quot; Since then, I've been a fan here and come here at least once a week Staff) They put &quot;Unchained Custom&quot; on the menu. Staff) Is that your favorite? It's the seasoning I like and I order And they named it after that. Staff) Do you always eat it that way? That's true for the most part But today my favorite &quot;Den-den Black&quot; is on the limited menu I thought I'd come and try it Today I'm having &quot;Den-den Black&quot; It's Den-den Black He's been coming here once a week for nine years If you go once, you're sure to find your favorite shoyu ramen And Unchained Kaji-san... Honodo too! Thank you! He drank up the soup and left in style. A close look at one of Osaka's most popular ramen shops, which is always crowded with regular customers.