Transcriber: Rhonda Jacobs Food addiction isn't a recognised Yet lots of us do feel Now, we diagnose other addictions So I want to ask all of you I should say, these are I don't do this to diagnose you. I do this to force us all to think about And I ask these questions And I also want to say, my answer Are there any foods that cause you physical, social but you keep eating them anyway? Have you ever tried and failed And I want you to think about what Think about the brand. Do you ever feel like you're Do you ever have cravings for those foods, Now, if this was I would be possibly diagnosed if I answered 'yes' But there are two big problems The first thing is that food doesn't seem Now, some people think but most of us can sit and we don't find ourselves No one does that. Okay, my three-year-old does do that. She does it for the same reason which is to frustrate me. Broadly, sugar is not addictive. But there's another much bigger which is that baked into the concept And none of us can be abstinent from food, so calling food addictive But in 2009, a group of scientists almost by accident. They were noticing this terrible that was sweeping And there are lots of different products They were being aggressively marketed. This is door-to-door and they were selling frozen foods, There was a great variety of products, they were all industrially processed. And so the Brazilian team led by They called it 'ultra-processed food'. Arguably, it might be It's housed in the United Nations I may be one of a tiny number of people but if you're wondering if a product it all boils down to this: They're products you wouldn't usually find So things like this sandwich, for example. It's ultra-processed because it contains of mono- and diglycerides of fatty acids, one of the most common It's got xanthan gum, twice, and something Now, these products They make up more than 60% in the United Kingdom; 80% is common for many, many children. And at the same time we've seen a global pandemic that means that poor diet as the leading cause of early death. And at the same time, we've done And that's being driven because we're living in an emergency our children aren't just some they're also short. Children at the age of five are that much shorter the age of five than their peers in Northern Europe, where they eat less of this kind of food. So the research is pretty clear that a diet high in ultra- And just like tobacco, it seems to affect It's been linked to anxiety eating disorders, cancers of all kinds, metabolic disease, cardiovascular disease, and most importantly - this is the thing weight gain and obesity. We can't seem to stop eating it. And this is where that definition because at least in theory, we could be It's only been in our diet But is it really addictive? You may have seen headlines like this And like me, you may have thought, But I want you to reflect on this: Of people who tried cocaine or alcohol, between 10 and 20% of them Not by any means all of them. We think, according to that around 14% of adults live to ultra-processed food products. And terrifyingly, we think We also know the risk factors They're the same, whether we're talking about cocaine, stress, poverty, trauma. And when we put people in scanners, So there is a lot of commonality. Now, to find out more, I put myself It wasn't a usual diet. It was a diet where I was in a big research study at University College in London. And the idea was I'd eat a very high 80% of my calories, a normal diet for a British teenager. And we'd see what happened to me, and that would guide us We'd get pilot data from me. So I was very excited about this, because, of course, if you're a doctor and broadcasts about nutrition, you don't usually get to eat It did stop feeling appropriate. So I brought this whole bag of food home, She called it the Mickey Mouse cereal. She'd never seen Coco Monkey before. And I was a bit uneasy But you look at the box - it's positively designed for them. There's a monkey on the box. There's lots of health claims. There is something weird, though, if you look on your boxes of cereal - all applies to an adult portion, Now, has anyone here Not even in this audience. So I have here an adult There it is. It's not much, is it? But if you stick Well, I sat down the first morning (Laughter) we ate - she ate three and a half adult portions, She ate almost in a trance, looking at (Laughter) It was an incredible experience, This is food that has been designed I'm full; I've had enough calories. And that speed In general, ultra-processed food, It's often full of salt and it doesn't have much water And the speed of consumption for lots of different addictive products. The delivery of the reward molecules, is important if you do it quickly. Compare nicotine gum and cigarettes. Same addictive drug, same dose. But the cigarettes are essentially while the nicotine gum in fact, we can use it And there are lots of other examples. So speed of consumption seem to be very, very common between ultra-processed foods But there's another aspect which is the additives. And there's lots of additive anxiety. Most of them are pretty safe, In the UK, we've got more than 2,000. In the US, no one has a list. Might be 5,000. By some estimates, it's more And part of it is to save money: If you can put in a bit you'll save a lot of money, and you may We have emerging evidence seem to be driving changes They seem to be weight gain and inflammation. So the additives may well be and they may be contributing to addiction. Essentially, you are all participants in experiments that You take all the risk in this experiment. New molecules, new combinations trialled on you, and the benefits are all kept who own a relatively But how did our food get to be this way? Well, I want to show you. I spoke to hundreds of people in the course of my research. I have good friends and I've got a good picture It's called A/B testing. So I've got two slightly of the same breakfast cereal. One has a slightly different emulsifier, and the way I test them And the main thing I'm interested and how much you eat. And if you eat box A that's the one that goes on the shelf. And next month I try box A - Every single aspect of every product And the reason is because the food that have obligations our pensions, pension funds, hedge funds, And there are obligations to deliver them and so we have to sell [R.J. Reynolds Tobacco] Now, some people say the food industry is behaving And that's actually not quite accurate, because what you have to remember the tobacco industry In the 1980s, R.J. Reynolds Philip Morris bought and created the biggest And they used all the flavor technology they'd been using they applied all that So Philip Morris had this program - If you smoked Marlboros, and you could use the miles And they developed the same thing And it was a loyalty program. The more Kool-Aid you got, the more points The companies know We've got cereals called Krave. We've got whole campaigns And if you think about if you look at the behaviour they all have a very with the products We have to use to regulate the food industry. We learned how to control them. Just as they are using the playbook to now sell us food. And the first thing that we have to do is interrupt the flow of money. The money has to be seen as shameful. This is our biggest nutrition This is a list of the companies We have to stop doctors, scientists, a financial relationship, We need to get the tiger off the box This is a box from Mexico. And kids in Mexico and Chile, where there are these warning labels they're now asking their parents just as I asked my parents But what should you do? You know, this will take decades. It will be more Well, I got an answer. If you're struggling with this. Midway through my diet, she's a colleague in Brazil - just as an aside: It's an industrially produced And we hung up the phone, and I sat down to eat my favorite meal, She had flicked a switch in my brain. She turned it from addictive And we have some evidence that if you stop forbidding yourself and you engage with it meaningfully, that you can make that transition So my invitation to you You're soaked in it. We have to keep eating it. It's all the food particularly people So keep eating it, inspect it, get it out on a plate, look at it, and ask yourself this question: Is this food? Food should be prepared with love Is it food, or is it designed to turn my health And if you're struggling - and this is a conversation with shame and blame for so many people - I would ask you just to remember are so carefully designed and just remember, it really isn't you. It is not your fault. It is the food. Thank you all for listening, (Applause)