Hello, My name is Mykola Volokhov, call sign We are fighting in the Kharkiv direction as In this video you will see how we burn the equipment of the I would say in a rather cruel way. Therefore, If you want to see it all uncensored, Believe me, there are a lot of interesting things there. Especially patrons on Patreon And for those who want to join, we We are raising funds for electronic warfare systems so that A link to the fundraiser will be Or by QR code on the same video. Become our YouTube sponsors, Patreon Patrons. For Patches of the unit, as well as flags Support the Armed Support the &quot;TERRA&quot; unit. Together we will definitely win. Glory to Ukraine! Friends, today I am going to the position with, well, I will With the best FPV squad of Very productive, very The &quot;Vitrolom&quot; crew. Decent people turn on the sight, just in case. - And what is this? - Does it croak? - Duckling Zhora? Benefits of helmet. When you don't know the Ok, friends, we have a task We will now use the &quot;Drakaris&quot; Ten inch large hexacopter. And a special incendiary ammunition on it. Such Flying. Such a complex &quot;Drakaris&quot; course it's a little scary to be near it because we really want the kat*aps to burn in the Beauty, burning! We burn kat*aps, Oh, beauty! It went well! At that intersection, F*ck, low, cool! It's still going! It's still Basically, the task is done. The incendiary treeline, to the place where the trees At least, that's how it should work - Come on, let's go! - Well, well, well. We see vehicles. - So, what do we have? Loaf! The buchanocide He maneuvers, wants to somehow A little bit of -Bam! Got it, Seryoga? - Vitrolom goal! Next we fly with fragmentation ammunition - I see someone flying, and the f**ks - There's a small - Here it is, here it is. - This is this, full speed ahead. - That's him! Gotcha! - Get fu*ked! - F***? - Yeah! - Great. - Let's repeat, repeat &quot;Vitrolom&quot;. - &quot;Vitrolom&quot; in the sky, ETA 3 min. - Shrapnel, shrapnel. - There are three of them in total, so there are still targets. - We are almost near the target, show us where they are. - And they want to take him away here, well, we will help. - Come on, let's hit him. - Look, his backpack caught fire, Kolya. - FPV, do you understand where to fly? - Is it possible for *** to zoom out so we find landmarks? - Look &quot;Vitrolom&quot;, got landmarks? - All FPVs go there! - Let's repeat again, faster, we can't let them through. - And where is this bush? - I am covered by smoke - There they go in that direction, looks like one of them f*ckers. - Under these bushes, a lot of f***ers! - Roaches. - Roaches, get f*cked! - Yes, splendid! - Got him? Seryoga, reload! - Igor, take it out, take it out! - He crawls, that's - Great, Great, crawls. - And another one! We took out two of them. But - We don't touch the wounded, but the living one, - Let's go for the athlete! - Roger let's fly. - Yes, he's inside under the tree. Not - Under the tree. - There he is, I see him. - Repeat the &quot;Vitrolom&quot;, another roach in the bushes. - &quot;Vitrolom&quot;, 100m along the *** stream. Are - &quot;Vitrolom&quot; work the bush where the - There is still smoke there, this is our landmark. - This is our bush. - Yes, this is our tree. - Is there a roach? -Yes, yes, under another! - Beauty, he is ours. - Get some! Got it Seryoga? - There was another roach there, by the way, - Great! A drone with a thermal imaging is ready for We will work on TOS. In the area of his firing positions, We are flying with a thermal imaging ammunition on the TOS, it will explode like - I descend abruptly. Here he is. - Let's go to the hit, we will hit, now. - Well done Yes! Suck it! - Judging by the joyful shouts, - Tyulpan! - We haven't hit the Tyulpan yet. - Pion and Tyulpan are heavy self-propelled mortars for destroying - This is this path. Yes, yes, it - Go to the right of it to see it. - Is it in the field? - Wow! - Eagle in the sky, in the sky, ETA 6 minutes - Roger, 6. - Okay, I'm just going to fly there and be nearby. It is important to quickly crush the enemy's firepower so that Our goal now is to find There are two scenarios. The first one is to itself, by piercing it. And the second scenario, Well, the third scenario is to unalive firing squad. - Here is a hole you see near the tree, to the right, - Roger, 1 Minute. - High-quality additional reconnaissance. These - Let's go - Come on. - And dive. - Beauty. - Yes? - Gothca bi*ch! - Well flown. - Nice. - &quot;Vitrolom&quot;, here we looked at your work, the deputy commander of the - Thank you for the award! Friends, let's sum up the results. For We got the kat*ap infantry TOS was fried a little. In the side, yes. It didn't explode, unfortunately. But he was close As they say, like and subscribe. Glory to Ukraine!