(soft music) - Hi, I'm Rick Steves, sailing We're on the Nile, exploring the historic and Thanks for joining us. (uptempo instrumental music) Egypt, while not in Europe, contributed to the foundation It's a crossroads where east and where ancient meets modern. As we'll see, it's a long story, and it continues to unfold. In Cairo, after admiring of the ancient world, we - Buy one, two free today. Cheap, cheap. - We haggle with a gauntlet venture into the back streets local-style, and help chisel a tombstone. In Alexandria, we delve and smoke a shisha. In Luxor, we revel in the and their hidden tombs. We hoist the sail for an then upgrade to a river boat cruise and kick back while enjoying Our finale, the magnificent In the southeast corner Egypt is one of Africa's The Nile River flows like a green ribbon from south to north. After Cairo and the pyramids at Giza, we tour Alexandria and Luxor. Then we cruise the Nile, check out Aswan, and finish in Abu Simbel. Cairo, straddling the Nile, is the biggest city in North Africa and the biggest in the Middle East. It's the capital of Egypt and one of the leading cities in Islam. With about 20 million it's bursting at the seams Cairo's downtown is modern Streets, squares, and grand of the country's colonial past, from the 19th and early 20th centuries. The riverfront throbs with energy, stately bridges busy with traffic, fancy riverside restaurants, and towering apartment complexes. The Nile is still the sprawling endlessly on both sides. The heart of Cairo is Tahrir Square. It's long been ground zero If there's a demonstration going on, and there have been massive it's likely here. In addition to its political energy, the city's long been a religious capital. Ever since the forces of Islam from Arabia in the 7th century spreading the teachings Cairo has been a leading And today, Cairo's known as the Stepping into Al Hussein mosque, like any neighborhood mosque, you'll find a worshipful tranquility. It's believed that resting There's more intensity believed to contain a sacred relic, the head of Al Hussein ibn Ali, a grandson of the Prophet Mohammed. In a mosque, men and As praying can be physical, it's considered more respectful to allow woman their own space. I find that a respectful tourist is welcome to be a part of the scene. Along with minarets, especially in Cairo's Coptic quarter. While Egypt is predominantly Muslim, today about 10% of the The Egyptian, or Coptic Church actually predates Islam by six centuries. Because they worship in an orthodox style, stepping into a Coptic Mass The faithful believe and baby Jesus escaped this very spot is where they took refuge. Later, in 43 AD, it's came to Egypt and established Mark was their first pope and the first in an unbroken stretching back nearly 2,000 years. The Coptic quarter comes Throughout Egypt, travelers security barriers, and a These are reminders of a pent-up tension in Egyptian society. They reveal the challenges While many modern Muslims would prefer a separation others believe Egypt should with a strict interpretation of the Quran. Religious fundamentalism as it is in America. Cairo is intense. I love traveling here, but I do it with safety While prices on the street may be cheap, if you want rich-world comfort, you'll pay rich-world prices. I sleep in an international-class hotel. It comes with first-class security. I hope the future will be more relaxed. But for now, I splurge (soft uptempo music) The people of today's Egypt in a story that goes back 5,000 years. Even if you don't understand its long and complicated history, just observing how old is rewarding to the traveler. Egypt's heritage goes back And ancient Egypt, that's The iconic sights of Egypt, are basically buildings Back then, they believed and your big challenge: to be sure your body and your valuables survived the journey into the afterlife. That's why, if you had you'd lock everything up These are the most famous, But the oldest pyramid is the tomb of the king This structure, which marked Dating from around 2600 BC, it's a century older than its This first-ever towering stone structure is more than just a grave marker. With an innovative stacking of layers, it provided a new way to glorify a king, creating a stairway to eternity. A visit to Cairo's Egyptian Museum helps bring the country's Along with the Grand this museum shows off the best collection of ancient Egyptian art anywhere. The core of the collection, art from the age of the pharaohs, dates from about 3000 to 1000 BC. Nearly everything filling these art designed to help save statues filled with and offerings to deal with the gods and help assure a happy This ancient art is so well-preserved because most of it was dark and dry, in tombs. This portrayal of geese from 2500 BC is perhaps the oldest surviving painting. This seated scribe recalls the importance of the educated elite in the court of an often-illiterate king. And this couple, a husband and wife, was also found in a tomb. It's all art for the dead, locked up until rediscovered Many mummies patiently await your visit. Ancient Egyptians preserved bodies through a complex process that the soul could re-inhabit And the coffins were elaborately painted with an inventory of would accompany the to be sure all went as planned. The art looks essentially the A remarkable thing about as a whole was its stability. For 2,000 years, from 3000 to 1000 BC, relative to other times very little changed. Religion permeated Egyptian society. As long as things were the gods were happy, Every year the Nile would flood, bringing water and When the gods are happy, and you don't change things. And the pharaoh was considered a god. If your leader is a god, You obey the rules. Things stay the same. Akhenaten was the one exception in a 2,000-year line Rather than the same, Akhenaten had his own voluptuous looks, from a strangely curvaceous body to big, sensuous lips. Ruling around 1400 BC, he was considered Akhenaten replaced all the with one all-powerful being, the sun god, whom he called Aten. In reliefs from the reign the sun, shining down on everything. During the time of Akhenaten, people were portrayed Casual family scenes, must be from the time of Akhenaten. As always, I appreciate so I'll understand the symbolism So, we're joined by my friend She explained how lots of on papyrus survives, and how it helps us better understand the mysteries of the pharaohs. - Papyrus is made out of the which is hammered, and then it is woven, and then we press it in a to get those beautiful papers. These are the hieroglyphs, one of the most ancient written languages because of which we understood a lot about the civilization of ancient Egypt. So, these are beautiful Even in the afterlife, they and deities in order to help Even here in front of the judge Osiris is a big offering pile of lotus, onions, oxen leg, as well as - Anything to make the god happy. - Anything to make him happy. - [Rick] The son of perhaps the most famous pharaoh. A highlight of the museum's collection is a section filled with from his splendid coffin to his jewelry. This is exquisite. - It is a beautiful piece of the jewelry of Tutankhamen around the year 1300 BC made out gold, turquoise, lapis lazuli, and you can see the where you can see the scarab, the sign of existence, The cobra is wearing the as well as the ankh, symbol of life. The ancient Egyptians used and also mummified their organs. King Tutankhamen around the year 1300 BC had his organs inside this and that was also inside a that had the surroundings of the four goddesses for protection. So it was always about protection. - [Rick] The mask of so his soul could recognize him on his journey to the afterlife. Placed over the head of his mummy, it was 24 pounds of gold, with a cobra and a vulture to of both Upper and Lower Egypt, After the museum, Cairo's is a colorful celebration Khan Al-Khalili is the 600 years ago, it was a caravanserai, a stop on a caravan trade route. Then, when the Ottoman Turks took Egypt, it became a bustling Turkish bazaar. Today it's a stop for every tour group, and the merchants are standing by. - How are you? How can I take your money? - [Rick] Eager to charm - Welcome. Just have a look here. Everything is free. Welcome to Egypt. - Today, 100% discount, - Buy one, two free today. Cheap, cheap. - No money, no honey. No cry. - [Rick] The hustlers can or fun, depending on your approach. - Hello, my friend! Hello! Good morning. - [Rick] Dive in, with a sense of humor. Bargaining is expected Treat it as a game. Never feel sorry for, or If you see something you like, show some interest and see - Here, your size. - Big size, you know. - Give me $5. Okay, okay, okay. - Cairo's a fascinating clash between traditional and modern, religious and secular, east and west. While its chaos can be exasperating, it can also be a rewarding challenge for the adventurous traveler. I find that simply from the tourist-friendly bazaar, suddenly, the tourists are gone, and I'm swallowed up in Wandering through the here in Cairo's Islamic quarter, you feel that it goes on forever. Three-wheeled tuk-tuks (horn honks) I love to hop in one for a quick joyride. There's something strangely graceful about this chaotic dance merchants, and pedestrians. (uptempo instrumental music) Exploring the Islamic Quarter It's a commotion of activity. Everywhere you look, something you've never Somehow, bikers balance Craftsmen inscribe marble tombstones with verses from the Holy Quran. &quot;The peaceful soul, after a blessed life, will finally rest in heaven&quot;. With a little effort, you'll find it can be easy In this shop, a man spins that will become a favorite The classic street food here is koshary: lentil, rice, pasta, all mixed together into (dishes clattering) The distinctive clanging And small bakeries are steadily producing hot balloons of pita bread, destined to be filled with falafel. Bread is subsidized by the for people struggling (soft uptempo music) Walking through neighborhoods like this, you gain an appreciation for is a daily struggle for millions in a teeming city like Cairo. I make a point to explore Here in Egypt, like almost anywhere, there's a big gap between rich and poor. In the relative cool of the evening, the prosperous streets with window shoppers clearly a world for Egypt's And gated social clubs in a refuge where the wealthy protected from the gritty My friend Tarek, who runs has invited me out for the evening. Tarek grew up as a member and today their children enjoy almost daily. These clubs have something birthday parties, playgrounds, Adults can retreat to the no-kids zone to play a quiet game of croquet with friends they've been since childhood, or just to watch from We finish our evening just down joining his family for dinner. So, how do you say... In France, you would say, bon appetit. - Bon appetit. (both speaking Arabic) - That's very difficult. Bon appetit. (all chuckling) - I think so. Heba, this is so beautiful. Can you give me please a tour of this beautiful Egyptian meal? - Sure. This is moussaka. - [Heba] This is the stuffed vine leaves. - Stuffed vine leaves. and this is okra with tomato sauce. - Okra. Nice. and this is Egyptian and this is of course, rice. This is rokak. - Rokak. What is rokak? It's some kind of pastry - And- - Tzatziki. So we have moussaka- - Common between us and the Greeks, yes. - I was gonna say, moussaka, and tzatziki. - A Greek would say, &quot;That's my food.&quot; It's Egyptian, also? - We cook it differently. There we go. Thank you. Shukran. So, is it normal for children - Actually, if they're - [Rick] Yeah. And your kids - Yes, American ones. - Sometimes on Friday or Thursday, we watch on the TV, Netflix, we choose an English movie. Egyptian or English? - Family movie! Every Thursday night is family movie. - [Rick] And, Heba, what do to be successful and to be happy? - Mm, to have good faith, good education as well, to be open-minded, self-confident. I think you're on the right road. I think you're on the right road. (both chuckling) - That's lovely. (soft instrumental music) Cairo sprawls. It's a jam-packed city of over 20 million. Massive blocks of many violating building codes, to congest the ever-growing suburbs. Driving through half an hour of this, we finally reach the desert and the sight that draws the Pyramids at Giza, one of the most recognizable Towering before us are the or pharaohs. These monuments were built the bodies of fabulously They spent a good part of their lives and their kingdom's wealth which served as lockers for whatever they wanted their bodies, their treasures, The pyramid of the pharaoh Cheops is the only survivor of the Seven Wonders of the Ancient World. This grandest of all pyramids, was built 2,500 years before Christ. The neighboring pyramids are likely those of The smaller ones? They're for the wives and daughters. Experts guess that with it took 20 years to build According to my abacus, that's 200,000 man-years of hard labor. Workers dragged over two eventually constructing In their day, the pyramids were encased in a shiny limestone veneer. I sure hope Cheops was satisfied. Long, secret corridors, originally blocked by sliding stones, lead to the tomb chamber deep Climbing this passage, you marvel at the design and Finally, reaching the burial room, you're hit by the thought and precious chamber in the ancient world, until the arrival of tourism. This is it: the center The pharaoh's mummy was put The sarcophagus is bigger so this must have been here first, and then the pyramid built around it. This huge chamber was A little shaft was to provide an escape passage For the pharaoh, the most which needed to be free for Back outside, complementing the scene, is the mysterious Sphinx. As old as the pyramids, it was carved out of a piece of hard rock that stuck above the limestone plateau. With the body of a lion and it came to symbolize as it faces east and the rising sun. But we're heading north, down the Nile to Egypt's second city, which lies on the Mediterranean coast. Alexandria is one of the great It was Egypt's capital until the Muslims came in the 7th century. Not as big as Cairo, it has milder weather, and Alexandria is a thriving Fishermen, as they have harvest the sea to help feed the city while taking advantage of this safe haven. The harborfront corniche is and people out enjoying the scene. Strolling here in the cooler you appreciate the inviting ambiance. This beach-side cafe has a relaxed vibe, not unlike other Mediterranean Alexandria can feel spirited, In fact, this city helped spearhead Egypt's Arab Spring The populace is an intriguing modern, religious, and hipster. The city has a chaotic energy exceeding anything I've With the constant beeping its center is a carnival Scenes like this are and why many don't. (soft uptempo music) This urban commotion literally But, apart from this which dates from the 4th century, very little survives. It's mostly destroyed, in the sea, or buried under today's city. Alexandria was named who founded it in 331 BC. It became one of the with a population of Queen Cleopatra ruled Egypt from here, when the city rivaled Rome as a cultural and intellectual capital of the Mediterranean world. And it's here that St. Mark establishing what, to this day, is the Coptic, or Egyptian, church. Ancient Alexandria was home to two of antiquity's greatest sights, neither of which survive, a huge library, and an one of the wonders of the ancient world, built in around 300 BC. Imagine the lighthouse which stood at the mouth of the harbor. It was so tall that light from its fire could be seen from 30 miles out at sea. After guiding ships from safely into port for 15 centuries, in about the year 1300, an earthquake hit, and it tumbled into the sea. Today, a 500-year-old In fact, it's said that many of the stones from the lighthouse were to help build it. (soft uptempo music) While the ancient lighthouse guided friendly ships in to Alexandria, centuries later, this fort like the Ottoman Turks, out. And Alexandria was famously home to perhaps the greatest No ship was allowed to dock here without giving up its books to be copied. Tragically, about 2,000 years ago, that amazing repository of knowledge was burned and destroyed. Today, its legacy survives Built in the year 2001, walls are inscribed with characters of the world's languages through the ages. An inviting gathering the library feels promising, to see the next generation The interior is welcoming for hundreds of readers to History has been harsh on the city, with its population shrinking in the 18th century. Then, in the 19th century, when it welcomed enterprising foreigners from around the Mediterranean, Alexandria enjoyed a resurgence, becoming one of the liveliest The corniche was lined by from the early 20th century. And grand European-style Today, Alexandria's century-old European grandness is fading. Caked in this generation's grime as the city's population has exploded, it's become a thoroughly of over five million. The cityscape includes a gritty yet somehow beautiful and densely inhabited apartment glowing with every sunset. (soft uptempo music) For me, no visit to Alexandria is complete without venturing into its While you can buy just about anything in these thriving and exotic streets, there's also a strong sense of community that naturally comes with And, to better enjoy this convivial scene, I'm joined by my Egyptian friend, Tarek, in a classic shishajoint. As I've done in Turkey and I occasionally enjoy this traditional and very social form of smoking. - Nice, huh? - This is a beautiful scene. - So relaxing, comfortable, peace. - A lot of people in the United States, they say this would be a What is this in Egypt? Yeah, and few people now call it hookah, hubbly bubbly, nargile. - Is it some tobacco, - It's a tobacco flavored Could be apple, strawberry, mint, Too many. - If I smoke and smoke and - If you spend like two or This is one, finishing one of those is like finishing two (Rick coughs) Sorry. (laughs) But the people aren't We do it casually. Lets us vent out, be casual, socializing, you know, talking with friends. We do it with close friends. - Yeah. - While clearly Tarek could spend the rest of the evening right here, we've got some exploring to do. A short walk is filled And we'll start with dessert. It's hard to walk by this place without enjoying at least a taste. - Absolutely. And delicious. - That looks great. What are these? - This is sawabe' - Zainab's fingers? - Mm. - Shukran. - Thank you. Shukran. - Mmm. The key to this kind of sightseeing, have a curious spirit, have fun, and explore. These guys are way too fast for me. (uptempo music) The entire neighborhood is an and it's open late. There's fresh bread, very fresh poultry, olives straight from the desert, and something I noticed everywhere, friendly and inviting people. I know about six words of Arabic, but it didn't stop the smiles. You can get whatever you need around here, including a quick trim before dinner. (soft uptempo music) Okay, we've worked up an appetite. And Tarek knows a great place for fish. There's no menu, just That looks good, yeah. - Oh, that looks good. Okay, I think that's good. All right? Thank you. - Good. All right. Bailhana' walshifa! What is the fish? What am I eating here? - This is denise from the Mediterranean. - Okay. And then? - This is fried calamari and fried prawns. - We dip our bread in this and that? What is this one? - That's tahini. That's baba ghanoush. - This is tahini? - I just go... - Mmm. And then, what is this over here? - Baba ghanoush. I've heard that word, yeah. - Yes. many herbs, and dill. Dill makes it beautiful. - Mmm, oh, I like that. So, what is this one? - [Tarek] This is fried - So fried eggplant, tahini, in the Mediterranean and each country will claim it's ours. You find this in Tel Aviv- - So, Israeli, Turkish, Greece. - Turkish. - So today we claim this is Egyptian. - This is Egyptian, - The Mediterranean region shares many delicious and similar dishes. What country wouldn't want to claim this as their national cuisine? But, tonight, it's definitely Egyptian. While Alexandria sits at the delta, where the Nile flows we're heading south, about 500 miles upstream to Luxor. Luxor, straddling the Nile, was for many centuries the It's famed for its tombs and temples, which were mostly built These were the glory days of the pharaohs. From their palaces here, they proudly ruled a united kingdom, Upper and Lower Egypt together. Luxor is a standard stop While a city of about half Luxor feels like a tourist town shops, and ancient temples The riverbank is lined ready to ferry sightseers to Popping into its busy market, that serves both locals and tourists. The friendly welcome is a reminder of how important tourism The souvenir I take home, memories of so many vivid With the smells, the colors, the faces, and the rich heritage, just lingering here is sensual, a Luxor highlight. While I generally avoid the touristy horse carriages in Europe, here, they function as taxis And it's cheap and easy to simply hire one for a clip-clop joy ride around town. (soft uptempo music) Luxor's charming riverfront promenade welcomes strollers enjoying As the sun sets, we of both Luxor and the Nile. The Luxor Temple is particularly Standing in the middle of the city, it's evocatively floodlit and welcomes visitors in the evening. The towering front wall and greatness of the pharaohs. This grand entry was marked Both still stand, this one here, and its sister in far-away Paris. This holy complex was nearly 1,000 years before Egypt's temples were not but sites of sacred mysteries, where priests and pharaohs Reliefs show pharaohs wooing the gods with rituals and offerings. While the temple may have it seems all the statues Ramses II. Egypt's ultimate king, Ramses ruled for 66 years and did a lot of building. The sheer size of the complex with its forest of massive columns leading to huge squares is to get things done. Evening's a great time to visit. Under the stars, people wonderstruck at the Luxor's other great sight, another magnificent temple complex, is best enjoyed early in the morning, beating the heat and crowds. An avenue of battered sphinxes leads to the awe-inspiring main entrance, heralding the Temples of Karnak. Karnak was the most important Back when Luxor was Egypt's capital, this sprawling complex of temples was dedicated to the a trinity of gods, Amon, Mut, and Khonsu. It was built over many centuries throughout this New Kingdom period, when most of the great The Great Court is the largest It was used once a year for celebrating fertility, fertility of the land, the The Great Hypostyle Hall, is one of the grandest Its forest of columns bulging stems and flowering capitals, each elaborately carved The many columns of this vast hall once supported a stone ceiling. You can measure the of a society by the distance This was the best they The columns were fat and close together, making the gap easier to span. Imagine what it took to build all this. They had to design it, quarry the stones, stack them, smooth them, all for the glory and favor of the gods. Consider the depth of the faith, This was not for the public. It was only to be seen by the royals, the priests, and the gods. Obelisks symbolically These are monolithic and carved out of a They were quarried about 100 and then shipped down the Nile. This one's been standing Like church spires and minarets, an obelisk marked a holy place. There are only about 60 in existence. A few still mark their but more decorate the taken there through the As you venture farther into the complex, things get older and crescendo Everything at Karnak that marks the very heart the Holy of Holies. This was the most sacred On this pedestal sat a statue Amon-Ra was the god of Luxor, the god of empire, Egypt's god of gods. The Nile still flows as the lifeblood of Luxor's riverfront is busy The traditional felucca, long now hauls vacationing tourists. Anywhere on the Nile, The hand-stitched canvas sail Egyptian boatmen have for thousands of years. Today, they expertly maneuver as tourists leave every care behind, enjoying this scene, essentially unchanged since Here, where the desert meets the Nile, the lush ribbon of green is a reminder of how to all life in Egypt. As the sun sets, palms become silhouettes, ensuring memories created Across the Nile from Luxor are hills rich with some of Egypt's most While most sightseers cross the river on a fleet of touristy shuttles, we're riding on the public It's early morning, and these And we're heading for and the ancient tombs. To the ancient Egyptians, to live on the East Bank, and bury your dead on the West Bank, where the sun dies each evening. While the workers head off, While there are a few Egypt favors group travel, to waiting buses for their West Bank tour. The valley is blanketed with Here, two lonely statues And here, burrowed into is the Valley of the Kings, where mummified pharaohs hide awaiting the eternity express. This valley was all about And so were the great pyramids before it. It was to ensure that all those valuables made it safely into the afterlife. Ironically, rather than protecting tombs, the pyramids were actually Again and again, pyramids were looted and pharaohs were waking up in heaven with absolutely nothing. By about 1500 BC, pharaohs and began hiding their tombs instead. These tombs, buried deep in proved to be more secure than the intentionally While around 60 tombs have been excavated in the Valley of the Kings, far more have yet to be discovered. The tomb of Ramses IV was typical. It had a long ramp, leading to the burial chamber. This massive granite sarcophagus It protected the mummy of the pharaoh. Slathered in hieroglyphs, it was all designed to boost the pharaoh into the next life. Jackals stand guard, and here, a god presents two The burial chamber walls are Sealed away dry, dark, and they're beautifully preserved. Tourists can still clearly see Egypt's ancient elaborate spiritual world. The most famous tomb in the aka King Tut. Another long passage where you find more surrounding an empty stone sarcophagus. It was one of eight that protected the pharaoh's body. Remarkably, Tut's actual The ancient process of mummification ensured that the body was there for the soul to inhabit in the afterlife. And, you gotta admit, Tut doesn't look a day over 3,500. While his reign was of no and lasted only a few years, Tutankhamen is the one pharaoh That's because in 1922, this tomb was discovered (soft music) While pharaohs hid their they built their memorial temples in public splendor, in so they'd be remembered and This is the Temple of Queen Hatshepsut, the greatest woman pharaoh. In its day, around 1500 BC, Queen Hatshepsut's monument surrounded by gardens and approached by a The challenges of being a woman Hatshepsut claimed to be but to prove her strength, she Determined to assert her authority, her propaganda even showed Statues show the queen wearing a beard, a symbol of royalty. This multi-level temple is fit for a god and surely must have inspired With ranks of imposing it's easy to imagine public adulation for centuries after her death. Her formidable army carried weapons, but also carried olive branches, the ancient symbol of peace. History's first great for a 20-year reign of A short venture beyond the famous sights takes us into a timeless The vast majority of live along the banks of the Nile. And most of them lead traditional lives on land made fertile by the river. Plowing with oxen, sowing seeds by hand, and harvesting their crops, they farm as they have In some ways, life along the Nile seems to have changed little The major difference, the annual flooding, once essential to nourish has been controlled by an enormous dam. Today, fertilizing and irrigating the soil is the work of engineers With the Nile now tamed, farming in Egypt is possible Luxor's a busy port Fleets of these provide which have become a standard We're riding one farther upstream for a look at the most As if on a floating resort hotel, tourists enjoy the deck, with its pool, the attentive service, and the views from their perch atop three floors of staterooms. The trip upriver takes and seemingly ancient scenes interrupted only by modern cruise boats. Long stretches pass by timeless as vacationers have and live at the pace of the steady boat heading against the current It's so peaceful until the tranquility is broken by... Pirates? Nope, they're eager and who artfully tie up to the model, and haggle. (people shouting) Selling their souvenirs the hard way. Whether you buy anything or not, you can enjoy their on both the port and starboard sides. (soft uptempo music) As the sun gets low in the Scenes crescendo in beauty as they glide gracefully We pass patient fishermen, grazing cattle, farmers at work, children play, villagers do their chores, and minarets call all to After two lazy days, we the last major port on the river. An ancient garrison town famed today it's embraced tourism, taking full advantage of These days, Aswan is most It was built with Soviet back in the Cold War. A game changer for Egypt, it tamed the Nile, providing electricity and controlling the flow The dam created a huge Its creation submerged many But the most important temple was saved. To visit that temple, tourists catch a short flight from Aswan. It's an easy half-day side trip over one of the largest The Temple of Abu Simbel, while originally built by was relocated here only Abu Simbel was saved from and lost forever after Thanks to a heroic effort, in 1968, this ancient temple was and relocated to this spot, high and dry for at least Four towering statues stand sentinel at the entry. Ramses' wife and some of his children, considered less important and, are at his feet. Inside, the central hall is lined with more They're surrounded by reliefs Here, the pharaoh leads riding his chariot, thoroughly And finally, in the sacred sanctuary, Ramses assumes his place Admiring this one last magnificent temple, you can't help but ponder 5,000-year story of this civilization. I hope you've enjoyed our look at Egypt. I'm Rick Steves. Until next time, keep on travelin'. (soft uptempo music) (logo thudding)