- I want to show you at the top of this mountain. So I'm making my way up. It's about a 4,000 foot climb. And this entire time, I've been absolutely Let me show you what I mean. Norway is a place built by ice. For a very long time, glaciers have moved across this landscape, advancing, retreating, They carve rock away from leaving behind depressions called cirques, ridges called aretes, and long scratches in the rock. They flow through valleys, smoothing them out into this U-shape with steep walls and a flat base. Some of these valleys fill with water, forming the iconic Norwegian fjords. All of the rock carved away is carried by the glaciers They spit out piles of forming long ridges called moraines. And they leave behind boulders, so many boulders, and in weird places, like the tops of mountains or hundreds of kilometers If you know what to look for, you'll find these features everywhere. Not just at the edge of glaciers, but all across Norway. About 20,000 years ago, ice covered all of Scandinavia, along with vast stretches It buried Scotland, Since then, the ice has retreated, leaving behind all of this Today, this evidence But just 200 years ago, its origin was a complete mystery. These features were often and the idea of Europe being buried under ice seemed absurd. I want to tell you about to figure out how these landscapes formed and why the Earth froze. A figure whose work is in the entire study of the earth, but whose name has been largely forgotten. The first person to see the (orchestral music) All right, it's the early 1800s, and it's a weird time for science. Europe is on its way out a 500 year long cold period that saw glaciers famines and storms killing hundreds of thousands across Europe, and Vikings and Inuit For centuries in Europe, mountains and glaciers have been seen as places of danger and evil, but that attitude is changing. Explorers are climbing higher, venturing farther abroad Almost all of the Earth's land has been mapped with two big exceptions, these massive ice sheets covering The Industrial Revolution and politics, but to understand the earth. And the field of geology is Scientists all across Europe are looking at the landscapes around them and trying to figure out how they formed. They're seeing some weird things, boulders in places that and long scratches across the earth. For centuries, one theory has won out, that these landscapes were created by water, tsunamis, One of the most influential is Thomas Burnet's, &quot;Sacred published in 1681. He describes a, quote, paradise Earth existing thousands of years ago, completely flat with Baking in the hot sun, the Earth's crust has allowing water stored underground to erupt onto the surface carving today's mountains, hideous stains on the (orchestral music) Some theories are a bit closer, suggesting that these boulders floating over this landscape during a time of higher sea levels. A few geologists are getting really close, studying glaciers high in the Alps and beginning to suspect with these boulders and scratches. At the same time in a Swiss Louis Agassiz is collecting dead set on becoming a scientist. He studies in Zurich, earning a degree in medicine Then goes to Paris to study A few years earlier, Cuvier on the Revolutions Of proposing that species and landscapes didn't evolve gradually. Extinctions and geological processes were the result of a in the Earth's history. In 1836, Agassiz takes and visits Jean de Charpentier. Charpentier has been doing fieldwork, finding moraines, boulders, all over Europe. These landforms are similar next to glaciers in the Alps, and he suspects they were left by much larger glaciers in the past. He takes Agassiz out, shows him (suspenseful music) Agassiz returns home and more about this, seeing reports of similar He puts all of those reports together and proposes his theory the next year. A time of extreme cold in the Earth's past with ice extending from the and North America. And he describes the of all life at the Earth's surface, a powerful creation supplanted only the whistling of the northern wind and the rumbling of crevasses of the huge ocean of ice. But there's one huge question Why? Like why would the Earth just freeze? Plenty of theories are proposed. Maybe the sun had become weaker or the earth's axis had suddenly moved, reversing the poles and the tropics. Maybe the earth had just passed through a colder part of space. Around the same time, James Croll is growing He's had to leave school to but he's teaching He leaves the farm and working odd jobs, repairing managing a hotel, selling tea, writing a newspaper. And in 1859, he starts working as a caretaker at a university in Glasgow. The whole time he's continued to study. He's read all about the ice age and he suspects it's So he sets out to between the Earth's orbit and its climate. The shape of the Earth's Sometimes it looks close to but sometimes it looks more like this, elongated with the sun closer This alternates on roughly As it's orbiting the sun, the earth spins on its own axis as well. That axis is tilted a bit and exactly how much This time on roughly a 41,000 year cycle. And finally as it spins, kind of like a spinning top, In 1864, Croll publishes his theory suggesting that changes push it farther from the sun He also calculates wind and ocean currents, snow and ice, reflecting the sun's energy. The result is something a vision of the earth's complex and deeply interconnected climate. But in the following decades, scientists start questioning and his theory is eventually abandoned. Half a century later, Milutin Milankovitch modernizes and re-popularizes the same ideas. Croll is given due credit, but history has credited Milankovitch. Alright, cool. Two visionary scientists solving one of the planet's biggest mysteries. It's a great story, but a really important chapter, and that's what brought me here. I'm right on the edge of And looking around, you can see all of these glacial features being made in real time. It's pretty cool. You've got moraines all big boulders all over the ground. The rocks are all scratched. And of course, all of this is sitting in this nice U-shaped valley from the ice. Jens Esmark was born in Denmark in 1763. He studied theology, and later geology. He became a certified land surveyor, and in 1797, he moved to Norway to work at the Kongsberg Mining School. But in 1805, the mining and Esmark moved to Oslo. In 1811, Norway's first and Esmark was hired to teach geology. Working here, he took daily and air pressure, deepening an interest in He worked closely with scientists who were out studying Norway's glaciers and learned a lot about how the ice works. And he traveled the surrounding mountains, surveying the landscape, and summit elevations. He made first a sense of some but he was more struck with their steep smoothed Something must have carved these out, but what could possibly do that? In 1823, Esmark and two of his students are sent out to survey on the Norwegian coast. Here they noticed something out of place. In one of these deep U-shaped valleys, at the end of a lake is a weird hill. It runs across the valley wall to wall long, skinny and abrupt. He makes a note of it and The group follows the coast north to inspect another copper mine. Here they find more landform They're in weird places, and their rock type doesn't match that of the surrounding mountains. Somehow it seems they came At this point, the trip They've been on the road for months and gone way up the west coast. Instead of retracing his Esmark chooses to take a shortcut by cutting across They cross over a mountain path that takes them right past And it's probably here that All of these features they've the U-shaped valleys, the here they can watch this glacier When he gets back to Oslo, Esmark immediately about his observations. Looking back on all the and everything he's learned in a completely different light. And the next year he publishes his theory that much of Europe was once extending all the way down to sea level. He describes how glaciers slide downhill carving rocks from the mountains and depositing them elsewhere. And he even takes a stab at the cause, suggesting that changes in would push it further from the sun leading to a colder climate. Esmark's paper is later read Agassiz publishes his own theory and it makes a much larger splash. He then devotes much of his spending each summer and setting up a permanent He ventures into holes in the take samples from deep measures their movement. In the following decades, the study of ice is fueled largely by polar expeditions. In 1888, Norwegian makes the first crossing And in 1911, another Norwegian is the first to reach the South Pole. By the late 1800s, geologists have mapped the extent of the Ice Age has seen not one, but several Today, the glaciers have gotten smaller, but the ice cores have gotten deeper, reaching thousands of meters down, all the way through the ice sheets. Samples of ocean sediments reaching back tens of millions of years. Radiocarbon dating and the have revealed the age of glacial landform. Satellites have allowed detailed Ground penetrating radar underneath them. The result is the ability to watch the ice advance, retreat, carve mountains and valleys. But 200 years later, there's one name that you'll only rarely see mentioned, Esmark has been swallowed up, lost within the scale of his discovery. (suspenseful music) Today, the Ice age continues covering Greenland and Antarctica, but also in smaller ice caps scattered across the high latitudes. The largest in mainland Europe I want to show you at the top of this mountain. So I'm making my way up. It's about a 4,000 foot climb, and this entire time I've by the ice age. Here you can look back in time, you can glimpse this and Agassiz saw. (music) I'm standing up here, of Agassiz's ocean of ice. (music) I feel the northern wind. I see the crevasses opening in the ice, but I don't hear the silence of death. I hear water. (music) (water gushing) (music)