Good morning everybody, good morning, it's Every Generation introduces dozens it seems like they all have a purpose.....most of are so bad that I have to stand in the shower and These are the worst moves in every generation! sponsor of today's video, Factor75! Factor so you already know the food you'll be getting have goals for the new year set, so why not from Factor! There's no need to go out shopping, with Factor's fresh, never frozen, pre-packaged as 2 minutes! And the best part is, you can Keto, Vegetarian, Vegan, they have all the already been using Factor myself this I immediately feel better about my overall health, about what to prepare next. So if you're ready be sure to head to Factor75 dot com or click the 60% off your First Factor Box! Thank you Factor75 Now Gen 1 is probably the hardest to pick it's a little too obvious. Naturally, as and also the least power crept generation, we discussed in a previous video was Rock Throw, of 65%. It's like hitting a Focus Blast with less at least it has a purpose as the only Rock Gen 1. Rage is also an awful move, as in Gen 1 it stat after you've been hit, which is HORRIBLE, but we're looking for stuff way worse than that. meaningless. And I think I found my 2 winners. attack with TEN power! And its bonus effect? A 33% You cannot be serious. You're telling me you made moves not even have a guaranteed secondary effect? dealbreaker here? And what's funnier is that which is certainly one of the most broken Gen being wrapped. This means if an opponent you just don't get to attack! But this isn't stepchild...actually that description feels red-haired step-children, I didn't mean it like move has not only survived all 9 generations, know we're early in the video, but it wouldn't be And the other Gen 1 move is one we've covered video, it's Kabadra and Alakazam's signature move: Attack, but with 20% less accuracy. And maybe, you could argue that Kinesis was worth but since Gen 4, Flash has had 100% accuracy, and so what is even the purpose of Kinesis? Honestly, Steel types or something like that. Otherwise, Gen 2 likewise has some pretty bad contenders. only works on sleeping Pokemon. It inflicts loses 25% of its HP at the end of every turn. But any other action you take when an opponent is surely you have a better attack than can either Plus, since Gen 4, only 6 Pokemon have been able here, you have an ability that does this for you! And rightfully, since Gen 8, this move has been I couldn't agree more.....now about Constrict. sleep related moves, because Snore also exists. can only be used when sleeping. It does have a scenario where you'd rather use this over Sleep believe it. It was only 40 base power before Gen the turn wouldn't count towards your total number this move out like they did with Nightmare, but it Delibird's signature move Present is also so I don't think it really bears repeating. this Gen. A 40 base power Dragon type attack with are already pretty worthless to carry with you rare to fight against, but this one is so weak modern games, Twister now does double damage but that's so situational it's almost like In Gen 3, we have a litany of bad status moves, target's ability which may not sound bad if good ability like Intimidate or something, but on opponent is already using theirs to take you out. especially in Gen 3 itself, when it could only changes the user's type to match the surrounding Beta Terastalization?! But BAD? Yeah, Starmie is imagine why you'd ever want to change your type this move now, but it's not much better with them. read for your opponent to set up on that turn. that would be beneficial for you as well. an opponent's Nasty Plot, it's like well, that the only thing this move is Snatchin' And I can say the same thing about an equally faints in the same turn that it used Grudge on, move. I think there's another similar version of Destiny Bond! Yeah, who would want to actually drain its PP, ahhh, yeah, of course! Why didn't I But arguably the worst status moves from Mud Sport and Water Sport. These moves make moves respectively! Yo dog, I heard your Ground resistance on top of your immunity, it's genius! fade as soon as you switch out of battle, so to Pokemon who might actually need them! Imprison, and so on, but honestly, I don't think so props to them for being the worst of the In Gen 4, fortunately the bar for moves would be from sneaking through the cracks. Miracle Eye is removes an opponent's evasion buffs and also makes Look buddy, all I gotta say is, if you're in that you just went ahead and accepted defeat. This Sleuth from Gen 3 which I neglected to mention that's somewhat useful for getting through early the Pokemon that get it are so much later in the And as far as offensive moves go, Natural Gift is to be used to determine the type and power of the coverage moves to Pokemon that typically wouldn't power Fire move on a Meganium? But the problem I've literally never seen that Berry before now, you could use it against a friend to catch sticky Nuzlocke situation, but it's really not you're literally giving up the ability to use an But that's still probably not the worst Gen Rage with a new coat of paint. Instead of the gains more power the less PP it has, starting it takes entirely too long to build up for this it being good for Nuzlockes where you waste the 200 base power nuke to KO a harder Gym Leader situational occurrence, I wouldn't even bother. exceptionally strange Psychic type move that you'd ever use them. Magic Room: suppresses all with Wonder Room which flips the Defense and field. There's also Power Split and Guard Split, with the target. Shuckle can at least get an opponent's attacking stats into oblivion, and ally much more bulky. But aside from Shuckle, who other Pokemon getting usage out of these moves. moves our way: Synchronoise, a psychic type move with the user! WHY? Half the Pokemon that learn what were they thinking? And this move used a move with almost zero utility. Sure, now it's user of this move is Chatot who can damage 164 type, but that still means that are 844 Pokemon I don't think we're finding one worse than this. any of these bad moves, and that would be not to use any of his moves if you just or like the video if you already did! just failed VGC experiments, with one of the worst mostly learned by Ground types, this move will the Grass types on the field. Don't most Grass you'd want to go for either Nasty Plot or Swords half the gain. On top of that, only 3 Pokemon Parasect, Cacturne and Tapu Bulu. I guess maybe you could use in doubles to buff a Grass type ally just another in a long line of overly situational But believe it or not, we could actually go worse Block isn't much of a useful tool either. This Guard but without any priority, and only two gens shipped off to the orphanage. The fatal flaw of like Fake Out, y'know, a super common VGC move. have is protecting a slower teammate trying I know Greninja is pretty fast, so you might be remember how many Prankster Pokemon, priority VGC. It's just too easy to play around. I know get comments about how Mat Block was actually an in 2014. Great for you, but I don't care. can also only be effectively used in doubles, to Electric type attacks for the remainder of the your team with extra steps. Why not just use Deluge? Naturally, this would be another one Game Electrify has a similar effect, it just makes which I literally can't think of a single teammate with Lightning Rod or something, and even Electric didn't stop there, because they also have Special Defense of all allied Pokemon, but only those abilities we talked about in a past a good sign to avoid anything associated Aromatisse's former signature move, Aromatic as it simply raises an ally's And honestly there are so many more bad Gen few moves this Gen introduced, like Forest's I was beginning to wonder how I was possibly going Game Freak did that for me by inventing these two attacks that do absolutely nothing. And no, that's I appreciate that, I would have been here all was the actual worst of the worst otherwise. doubles moves though, as it gave us Spotlight, but it can redirect moves either onto an ally have control over. Now if you could use this move then it would be pretty broken! ...But it doesn't this move is to override the effects of things again, like so many other moves here, it's just the only format where this move would which explains why it only lasted one generation. one other move that is truly awful, and that's and Magearna. This move raises the Attack and Plus or Minus ability....so it's just as bad as In Gen 8, the two worst moves are also signature so I'll make it quick. Hatterene's Magic Powder, into a Psychic type. Polteageist's Teatime which berries....I am genuinely dumbfounded And finally, Gen 9! To be honest, most of the good! I could only find 2 moves this gen that most but honestly, these are definitely way better The first is Farigaraf's signature move, Twin It's not even as good as Psychic....why was this the And for our last move of the video: Scovillain's raises the target's attack by two stages, This could feasibly work as a hail mary or some people have managed to pair this move with but by and large, it's far from the And with that, thank you for watching today's as always, thank you to my channel members for the