That's a big hole! Hi it's Tod from Tod's Workshop and Tod the staff sling. This is an incredibly simple way, even in the hands of a normal guy. And today make one, and these things are so simple that say 'you' I mean YOU, the person who thinks they history out the way. The staff sling seems to be a in this book by Vegetius, which is late 4th but actually it all smells a little bit Greek to they did love their slings. But either way it was have been because it had such a resurgence. By the so sieges, naval warfare, open battlefield, staff he thought that the injuries from slings and staff because of the general nature of the injury, but anyway like all good weapons use and it was fantastically effective. Oh! So it's about 70 odd meters have got is a staff that is somewhere over your armpit something about that and then the sling is just tied off with a slip the peg. I'll show you all this in close up in a pouch and you just swing simple. Makes you throw like a baseball player. I'll show you again. Take it in two, hands swing There's no trigger, there's no timed release, it's and to use. But of course inevitably there's more we all know what's going on, I'll show you the got a little peg just carved in the end there, tied off onto the shaft, little loop goes that loop will pop off and the stone flies. you'll completely see at what point it leaves do because the length of the sling changes works, and you can understand how to tune this accelerates the sling and the stone, they of the staff accelerating all the time until big enough that the loop slips off the peg and the relationship between the various elements So the length of the staff, the length of the and of course your own physical strength and the give a set of built in parameters, the default do anymore I'm just going to show you a gratuitous [Music] Well I hope you enjoyed that. We were talking of kit and this is like modern terminology but you you become accustomed to the default settings, So if I swing this as hard as I can the rock but what you can do is you can start to accelerate release angle a little bit, you can go a little you can change the weight of the rock that you into the advanced settings menu and change the experience. So in the hands of a novice, any fool advanced person and it becomes a far more fearsome can basically enter the advanced settings menu and but of course it's the weapon that they were given about how big it should be? Well the length of differences to how it works, so we're just going trajectories. So the length of the sling. I've got on screen, see the difference it makes. Okay, foot. Nice! Mid length sling. Short sling. So what we can take from that is before a fight to happen. Basically long sling for if you're short sling if you're going up and over similarities with the trebuchet and what the Persians saw this and made that leap they seem to have developed independently is remarkably similar. Hi I've just interrupted interesting fact. 15th Century medieval rondel because I'm going to talk about the really weird but you'll see weird things like that on all how about that? Anyway you will find this and I'm going to show you how to make it this is everything that you need. But we're going somewhere between nipple height and ear height, but none of the measurements I'm going to give you It's so simple just make another one. So we're branches, any lumps off the staff there, so I'll show you the whole thing, but you get the idea. So I'm just going to mark where I want it and just half/35mm and there you are. Just going to round the back slightly But now if you imagine that we put the loop of on there that's fine but as you lean backwards for so we just need to put a little retaining now. And I'm now just going to tidy it up bit cleaner, and then we'll test it fine. So carving the peg really is that the other half of the sling needs to tied off but again we can just put a retaining everything in place. So I'm just going away and now when I lash the sling around it, finished. Time for the sling. I have I'm sure you could do it with you stout fabric and then cut a strip that is about 9 cm x 28 something like that and it will precise. So now we need to find half and just put a little mark on the centre line, then I'm just going I'm not cutting through. Where that line this way come in about one thumb thickness. Put a mark and then cut from that mark down to the edge and you now end up with a piece of leather And then again just maybe 1 cm, 1/2 inch, cut those holes in, it's a lot punch, and I end up with a piece of leather that modern terms para cord would do very but you want it strong not thin string and each other, put your cord through, you tie so you just pass it through and pull it pass it through again, pull it tight. knot. Now I've cut that off with a 1m So that is our finished sling and you can see basically you want it to just slightly hold the really encompass the shot because that will make about 60 cm 2feet long and that way we can shorten So now we need to make a slip knot for the part through, take your cord pass it through, and then when that's all pulled tight it will clamp down nothing will slip. So basically because it's to make the loop for the other end making making sure that it's balanced like that. So just the pouch and just pull it until it's level and stone well. Pinch it off at about 2 and 1/2 inches itself and form an eye so now I can put the eye nicely and that is it. It is as simple as a weapon It shows why they were so popular and used that - Let's go test it! So we've made our Knights. Straight through his chest, but you know it's going to hurt, now I'm but actually with the same thing you throw a won't walk again! So I promised you could make also promised that it was devastating in the hands this thing,' you know ranged weapons yes, staff well when I hit them, but you know often enough if go and when I said devastating, Oh that's a big hole. Really is an extraordinarily simple thing. So I'm down to my last rock always train your soldiers slings them because battles take place so often so it's the last one but then actually talking you. Winged him. Anyway hope you've enjoyed it, one more thing to try and I do. Plumbata, Roman at least in Western Europe, were Greeks loved throwing darts from slings, but if they invented them together you can knew about the kestros, but this is Tasty and now available from Todcutler.com lets try it with the sling. Putting those in Well this definitely ranks in the Right here we go, would it have worked? Well yeah! Kind of little bit precarious, but by hand much faster, much more accurate. check out the kestros, there's a guy called David amazing kestros videos. Anyway I hope