When we look out into the vast, there are innumerable stars out there. Yet, burning brightly and ferociously at the centre of generations of humans before us were inspired mesmerising glow. Now, as technology has advanced we can delve into the processes within going deeper than ever before. As we let's explore what I'm sure you'll agree are the I'm Alex McColgan, and you're watching Astrum, and on different wavelengths of electromagnetic Previously, we've explored Jupiter and electromagnetic spectrum, which you can see in we will be revisiting this approach, it'll be adapted to investigate a The light we'll be looking at is old. Although the Sun that we see from Earth is approximately viewing what the Sun looked like a few minutes in photons generated within the Sun's core to make escaping into space, the light that reaches us Where to begin? Like eating a fruit by starting let's start our investigation with the the corona. The following image was taken by the a NASA space mission launched back in February variations that influence life on Earth and dynamic solar surface and atmosphere at different beyond the visible range, NASA was able to pick understanding of the Sun. This image was taken light found in the extreme ultraviolet a colour temperature of 1 million Kelvin, we can Interestingly, the Sun's corona can also such as during a total solar eclipse. When Earth and the Sun for a fleeting period of known as the photosphere, is fully blocked, a breathtaking view already, the corona is this image taken by the SDO. This makes Let's go a little deeper - to features of the Sun of 20 million Kelvin, the intensely vivid Here is some footage of a particularly busy always found solar flares to be both terrifying where the Sun spews out an immense They are caused when magnetic fields cross, This activity is created by the turbulent from which the fields ultimately originate. Sun's atmosphere venting radiation. Coronal holes, are another fascinating feature which we'll take Coronal holes are areas of cooler, less dense rather than forming closed loops that go back to across the solar system. These areas allow solar When these solar winds are directed towards beautiful aurora lights dance across the night sky light gives us a much better view of these Non-visible spectrum light is an incredible in the Sun's outer layers to look at. as solar prominences) - the large loops of These enormous loops are large enough to and can stretch hundreds of thousands of km into but a stable prominence can remain In this example, we watch as a prominence into the Sun's atmosphere. Although this video when you consider the size of the prominence, it becomes clear how swiftly the Sun's intense One fact you might not know about the Sun's Not all of the charged plasma fired into solar system. Some remains in the corona, back to the Sun's surface as a shining rain. but is best observed from a distance - it's Of course, falling gently back to the Sun's Sun's plasma. This is where the comparison to not crack like a released elastic band, firing magnetic fields, they do. This is a timelapse of forms at the bottom left of the Sun for some time, tons of plasma out across the solar system. Even powerful one of these could be devastating All these structures are imaged by the SDO here which corresponds to the extreme ultraviolet Timing is important when trying to image these years than in others. In fact, each structure alternating around an 11-year solar cycle, But there's more to learn. Just as using visible when looking at the same feature, using two also be eye-opening. To demonstrate this, take Taken over the same time period, the following light. The first, imaged at a colour temperature features coronal loops. The second, imaged at a the much hotter active regions of the corona. The the importance of using different approaches when to be a singular solar phenomenon can be revealed And we still haven't technically made it through let's look at another image produced by the SDO this time of the transition region. The transition corona and the chromosphere (the lowest layer of approximately 100 kilometres in thickness. the Sun rises dramatically from around 8000 fiercely scalding lava erupting from Kilauea in The temperature at the lower, deeper end of the this. At the upper end of the transition region, Travelling even deeper, we find ourselves which is the last layer of atmosphere before using 170 nanometre ultraviolet light, it is thick. Closely inspecting the chromosphere, spicules. Swaying like long wavy grass blowing upwards from the Sun's surface at speeds up 282 times faster than the speed of sound, and one kilometre taller than Mount Everest. Forming the processes behind these spicules were widely clear how magnetically charged particles at that level. That is until 2017, when a team of of the spicules discovered that their origins must not originally included neutral particles in they affected the motion of the magnetically it transpired that the neutral particles unexpected buoyancy they needed to escape Descending further through the Sun's the photosphere - the surface of the Sun itself, the edge of the photosphere appears sharp and this is simply due to how far away the Sun is. too hot for matter to exist in a solid, liquid only be plasma, referred to as the fourth state of matter in the universe. Plasmas tend to behave mixture of ionised atoms and free electrons. The around 400 kilometres thick. It is not a fixed, may suggest. And sadly, it is the deepest layer At a closer look, you may notice some dark sunspots and appear darker than other parts of the that's only in comparison to their scorching hot in areas where magnetic fields are particularly photosphere due to decreased convection within to a previous one taken using extreme ultraviolet sunspots and solar flares emerges: the captivating location! From peering beneath the surface, it Now let's take a closer look at some similar Swedish Solar Telescope, based here, on light of approximately 400 nanometres. the photosphere is saturated with these which don't look dissimilar to lava these 'cells' are around 1000km wide and are layer of a churning convection cell underneath. fluid of unimaginable temperatures rising from surface. Upon reaching this boundary, the fluid and across. After cooling gradually, the fluid surrounding each cell, before repeating the convection currents within the Earth's mantle, This process is no joke. While on average as little as 20 minutes, the flow within the 7 kilometres per second, generating waves on the these granules can also be seen in utilising the same wavelength of visible light. for such a high-tech space probe. And you're granules on the photosphere of the Sun, not a And that's it... Sadly, our journey ends here, image deeper into the Sun, using either visible this layer remains shrouded in mystery. But all different spectrums in our study of the Sun. vast coronal holes, swaying spicules, cells, just to name a few, in completely new and so much of it would be invisible to us, Maybe one day we'll find ways to see deeper, just like those ancient generations of humans utilising these days. But for now, just knowing and knowing we have the means to uncover Who knows, what else might there Have you ever wanted to see some of these features dangerous to stare directly at the Sun without you'll be able to see the Sun's corona unhindered, TOTAL SOLAR ECLIPSE on April 8th 2024. When protection. Today's video was sponsored ISO-compliant Eclipse glasses that let you safely Sun's corona with your own two eyes. VisiSolar's products come either singly or in combo packs, also has an innovative Smartphone Photo Solar the sun! Get ahead of the game by buying yours now there won't be another one in the US until below or use my QR code to get a 20% discount Thanks for watching. Want to learn more about A big thanks to my patrons and members. If end of each Astrum video, check out the links