Reviewer: Queenie Lee I've been in the entertainment I was a very light drinker in my 20s. In my 30s, I was a social drinker, and somewhere in my early 40s, which is abbreviated AUD. We don't really use the term because it's too narrow of a term. AUD covers everything from the occasional binge drinker I started to realize that something when I was always the last person when everybody else had switched Yeah. I realized then that I so I decided that I would just But what I didn't realize is that could cause what's called where once the honeymoon period you're left with constant Think about it. You drive by a liquor store, You walk by a pub, and you get angry because you can't go in there You start isolating from your friends Developing AUD was for somebody who, admittedly, I was definitely not In fact, I was swept up with something I refer to Addiction is a monster, social class, race, sex, age; You can be the most When it gets you, it has you. &quot;It&quot; is in control. When I finally realized that the monster was, I sought out every single treatment I went to rehab for $30,000 to basically drink wheat grass I went to talk therapy for 200 bucks a session. I actually sought out a hypnotherapist who claimed that he had cured that was 400 bucks an hour. I went to 12 different meetings I went macrobiotic. I tried veganism. You name it, I tried it, and I - I prayed. I prayed until my knees and I still kept relapsing, I mean, I think that in the years and really battling it, I probably relapsed close to 20 times. And each relapse became and they got worse and worse and worse. And here's the thing: I wasn't drinking or because I was suffering I mean, if you look at it I was in my chosen career. I had friends and family I was drinking because I was That's it. Once I started, I could not stop drinking. I have addiction and the genetic predisposition which for me is drinking, I knew one thing for sure and this became very clear: doing equine therapy or tai chi in some swanky beachfront was not going to fix By the end of 2008, I had six months and that's when the addict started That's the insidious thing is once you have a bit you go, &quot;Hey, I'm not an addict.&quot; It whispers to you, You'll be able to control it. So I listened to that idiot in my head, and I had a glass of wine, came home, &quot;Well, look, the idiot is right. I only had one glass.&quot; Right ... Day 2, I had two glasses; plus I picked up a bottle to bring home Day 5, I was in a full-blown binge; I was drinking anything and everything, I would have probably When I was finally too ill to drink I did what I always did: This time, something went very wrong. I started to suffer I lost all control of my motor controls. I couldn't stand up; So I called a friend, and she took me Where, I got to tell you, In fact - until they had my $3,000 - they finally gave me my medication At that point, I felt so humiliated by the whole experience On the way out, there was for all these different One of them was for a shot, and this shot promised The shot was over $1,000 a month, but at this point, I would have sold When I got home, I Googled that shot. It turns out that the main an FDA approved, that's been used to treat AUD since 1994. As I was searching, a book popped up: the rather boldly named by Dr. Roy Eskapa. And there was this little sample chapter, so I read the chapter, This made complete sense It described a treatment where one takes an opiate blocker, you wait for an hour so the medication and then you drink alcohol. Sounds counterintuitive, Usually when an addict drinks, and that's what makes them But if you drink an opiate blocker, like Naltrexone, or Nalmefene instead of the alcohol reinforcing the opiate blocker blocks the endorphins from activating the part of the brain It's as if you have a huge room And every time you drink alcohol, and they raise hell in your brain The opiate blocker stops those endorphins It slams that door, and it locks it, Over the course of a couple days, the body is slowly detoxed, drinking levels dramatically decrease because your cravings for alcohol subside. I didn't have a doctor that would in fact, when I mentioned it So I ordered my pills 50 mg of hope. Took a couple of weeks and when they did, I got to tell you because I thought, What if it makes me relapse again? What if it's a worse relapse But at this point, I was So I took the pill; I waited the hour; I poured myself a glass of wine, I mean, the wine just sat there There was no head games, no compulsion, no &quot;I want more, more, more&quot; - nothing. I took a couple of sips, It was a complete miracle. Three months into TSM, There was this billboard - near where I lived in Los Angeles, and every time I drove by it, which was my particular poison, every time I drove by that billboard, If I was in drink mode, it would trigger me, If I was in sober mode, and I'd go, &quot;Uh, damn it, This particular day, and my brain said to me, I can't even explain to you because it meant that my thought It meant that my brain was fixed. It meant that I was me again. Six months into TSM I was mostly sober, except for the occasional planned drink TSM worked so well for me and thank him for writing his book. I also asked him to thank whose life's work, I asked him, &quot;What can I do to help He said, &quot;Well, why don't you That's when my journey I found out that the World that a person dies - 3.3 million people die every single year That's more than malaria, I also found out that multiple researchers estimate that 80 - 90% of people and many of these people because they've been falsely that they have to give up alcohol which to a 20- or 30-year-old not to mention kind of unrealistic. I also found out that of the 10% up to 90% of those people I mean, what other that has this abysmal of a success rate? Studies show that tough love or making them hit rock bottom it's actually making people worse. As Dr. Keith Humphreys &quot;It's remarkable that people believe If punishment worked, It's a punishing enough experience.&quot; He is absolutely right. It is punishing. If we addicts had a normal disease, we would be treated instead, we're faced with a barrage of and a complete lack Many people suffer for but the majority of us suffer So, why do so many people believe that a long-term battle can be simply stopped in 30 days or less with nothing but talk therapy It's amazing. It's amazing. The World Health Institute estimates that a person dies every ten seconds Is our current treatment system The Sinclair Method Imagine a world with 78% less alcohol addicted people. Imagine the profound impact 78% less broken families. 78% less abused children, lost days of work, insurance costs, accidents, The Sinclair Method uses science or even yourself to achieve recovery. Thanks to the Sinclair Method, I was able to Ctrl-Alt-Del I am no longer powerless. The monster is no longer in control. I am. TSM works wonders It is my dream to see it become a go-to, regularly offered treatment I encourage all of you, I beg you to please help spread the word And let's give addicts Thank you very much. (Applause)