The blueberry gum from Willy Wonka. Well, if there's anything I know about Willy Wonka, it's that nothing quite goes the way you expect. Does this item even count as food? Does gum count as food? Whatever, it sounds delicious regardless. Oh. Oh. Well, I guess they do say you are what you eat. I don't know if you're supposed to wear what you eat though. Regardless, I guess this actually makes total sense because today I coded your terrible food ideas into Minecraft and hosted a massive Thanksgiving dinner with a bunch of my friends. (screaming) That's all good. I'm a blueberry. Me, me, me! I'm so sorry for the editor. Yeah, this might be the most chaotic video I've ever made. I asked you in my community tab for the worst food ideas we could code into Minecraft, and then naturally I coded 33 of them into the game, resulting in a grand total of 75 unique items being added to Minecraft for one single video. Oh look, I'm inside the blueberry, hello. You're all in for a treat. Let me just start by taking this blueberry off. Oh. Curse of binding and curse of vanishing. I mean, I guess it makes sense once you turn into a blueberry, it's like really difficult to get it off, right? So I guess I'm stuck like this. Actually, I think I have an idea. Oh, Pillagers, where are you? Aha, there you are. Come here, come here, you. Come here, I'm a blueberry, I'm a blueberry. This thing actually gives me armor. Oh my gosh. I didn't realize this gave me armor. This might take longer than I thought. Hold on, come here. 75 years later. One thing it doesn't do is give me resistance to, oh. (ominous music) Nice. Hey-yah, 360. And now I am no longer blueberry. But let me tell ya, that's just the beginning of how insane this video gets. So let's jump right into the worst of it with Sour Patch Kids that scream violently when eaten. What could possibly go wrong with this? This one, I'm just gonna let you witness. (screaming) Oh boy. I may have coded a grand total of about, like, 15 different screams into the game. So if I just take this stack of blue Sour Patch Kids. (screaming) For the record, this isn't my fault, right? This is the comments' fault. I have no part in this. It's completely, this is horrible. This is, oh. It was so horrible, my game crashed. Something else unique about these guys is that you can actually dye the blue Sour Patch Kids. There are five unique flavors, I guess you could say. Nice, yep, all the Sour Patch Kids. And all of them do the exact same thing. Yeah, why am I still eating them? What am I, what is going on? Jeez, this is horrible. This is just, this is awful. That one was especially horrible. Rocket Dragon 3818. I entirely blame you for this one. All of these are entirely your fault. How dare you? Yeah, and that's not even the worst of what we've got today. This next one might be one of the most complex and completely absurd features that I've ever coded in a Minecraft. Prison Sludge, smiley face. Contains two teaspoons of cyanide, three cups of nitric acid, two mutated ghost peppers, and the soul of a Minecraft hater. Side effects include combustion, nausea, explosion, glowing body, and bad attitude towards others. All right, two teaspoons of cyanide, two mutated ghost peppers, three cups of nitric acid. And I actually do not remember the recipe. They said a soul of a Minecraft hater, huh? A soul of a Minecraft. Oh, he despawned, no. Why can't they just add all the mobs from the vote? (laughing) This is the Minecraft hater, and this is the only mob that I think I coded into this mod today. Everything else is like a food, but he basically just- This game is so bad. (laughing) He just complains. That's all he does. And he punches you. He just complains and he punches you. Why aren't there any circles? Why aren't there any circles? Well, because it's Minecraft, you annoying hater. Minecraft sucks. Minecraft sucks? No, it doesn't. That's just your name. Can you op me, please? That's the only way I can have fun. Oh no, that's the only way you can have fun. Get over here. And you found this game. Yep, that's right. Yep, I got the soul of a Minecraft hater. This is such a ridiculous feature. This is so ridiculous. Funnily enough, I actually need another one. I can't get just that all the mop. What's that for? Come here. You don't like that game anymore? Well, too bad I have your soul, so. What is this game, man? The soul of a Minecraft hater is cool, but you can actually release it if you want to. If you're holding it and you right click, you let the soul go. But that's not the point. I wanna use this to create the most insane feature of all time. And I actually need a bucket for this too. So I need to figure out how I, how do I freaking? Is it like this? That's how it works. Poison sludge, poison, prison, prison sludge. This right here is a bucket of prison sludge and it actually has four unique effects. I based this entirely on the comment because the side effects included five different things and I chose four of them because the bad attitude towards others is just inherent. So that's cool. Let me just drink this real quick. Oh no. Oh, here's the nausea. (groaning) Oh, oh hey, how's it going? I'm back. But now I need more prison sludge because there's more side effects such as glowing and spontaneous combustion and, and if you drank the worst thing they could. Prison sludge. What an insane mod this is. What a just a, what? This is my, this is my, can I just take a second to just appreciate that? This is, this is my job. This is, this is my job right now. I coded a Minecraft hater into the game and then killed it to get its soul. And then I crafted prison sludge with a bucket and mutated ghost peppers and, what is my job? Subscribe chocolate bar. That makes you subscribe when you eat it. Oh yeah, this one's gonna be good. So here's the chocolate bar. It looks pretty great. It's pretty awesome. But the real fun starts when you eat it. (mumbling) You're subscribed. Oh, it's gone. You're subscribed. In fact, if you're not subscribed, you should be doing that right now. I am right around a million. I might've hit it by this time. I don't know, but if I haven't or even if I have, you should be subscribing to me. That sounded really mean. I didn't, I didn't mean for it to be that mean. Subscribe if you want to, but don't, I get it if you don't, it's fine. It's okay, it's fine. I'll just be down here, okay, it's fine. Not subscribing, but it's fine. I'm fine, man, okay. Wonka fizzy lifting drink. It makes your character float, but unlike the Shulker ability, it only stops when you drink milk or float up to say 2,000 blocks in height. Oh boy, another Wonka product. Well, we know how well that went the first time. So let's just drink this and see what happens. Oh, oh, great view from up here. Oh, well, I can't see anything anymore. We're just too, we're too high. Well, it does lift you. Oh my gosh, what is happening right now? It sure does lift you, so. Yep, this thing launches you super high in the air. And also you can just keep drinking it and just keep going higher. I could just keep going if I wanted to. Yeah, we're at a solid 2,000 blocks. Yeah, 2,500 blocks. Yeah, this is great. We're thriving over here, you know? Well, I'm 3,000 blocks in the air. I sure would love to move on to the next segment, but I don't think that's happening until I hit the ground. So I'll just be here for a little bit. I'll just, I'll see you in a second. See you guys. Why is it the Willy Wonka stuff? Why is it that Willy Wonka is the one that's making all this dangerous stuff? Why is Willy Wonka the problem? I don't get-- Okay, I gotta immensely prepare myself for this one. Extra large, iced, salted caramel cafe mocha with two pumps of vanilla, four pumps hazelnut, extra mocha sauce, chips, chocolate drizzle, extra caramel drizzle, a scoop of vanilla bean powder, and extra whip. Obtained from the new barista villager, gives the player instant diabetes upon consumption, player did not want coffee with their sugar. Wow, so I'm not coding diabetes into the game, but I did find a solution that isn't just diabetes. Cause I felt like, I felt like that was a little mean. I felt like I was a little insensitive. But we're gonna, we got something. All right, we got something cool. This right here is a coffee cup. Yup, you can craft coffee cups now. And this is great and all, but like we need something for the barista, right? If we take this coffee cup and we surround it with planks, we get the coffee table, which by itself is pretty cool. I will say it's a pretty nice block. This is the new Starbucks employee villager type. And as you can see here, we've got a new item. We've got the extra large, iced, salted caramel cafe mocha with two pumps of vanilla, four pumps of hazel, and an extra mocha sauce, chips, chocolate drizzle, extra drop of caramel drizzle, scoop of vanilla bean powder and extra whip. Woo! The low price of just 49 emeralds. Here's my entire life savings. Oh my gosh, look at him holding it. I forgot that he did that. That's awesome. Hey, come here, come here. Give me that extra large, iced, salted, caramel coffee mocha with two pumps of vanilla, four pumps of hazel and extra mocha sauce, chips, chocolate drizzle, extra caramel drizzle, scoop of vanilla power and extra whip. Ooh, I am not saying that every single time. Oh my gosh, look at it in the hot bar. And you know that this is someone's actual coffee order. And the cup at all is cool. It's really funny, but the real fun comes when you take a sip or eat the whole thing. Okay, all right, okay, all right. I've got a new effect called caffeinated. This takes bounce off the, bouncing off the walls to the next level. You literally bounce off of the walls. Uh oh. Okay, I know I spent my entire life saving someone already, but I just need another. I just need more caffeine. Oh my gosh. Oh my gosh. Oh my gosh. (laughs) is it just overrides the motion of the player every single tick. So you just go flying. You just go ballistic. Oh, I didn't die. This is amazing. That means I can have even more caffeine if I want, but I think I can't. I shouldn't. I shouldn't. Oh my gosh. And the beauty of it is it's completely random. It's completely random. Your motion is entirely random. So sometimes you could end up a hundred blocks in the air. Sometimes you're just already on the ground. Uh oh. This feels like a lot more fun and a lot more chaotic than diabetes. I really hope you agree. Oh man, this is wild. (laughs) caffeine consumption because you could end up like me. It's anyone's guess as to where I'll end up. Nobody knows. Nobody knows where I'll be. Nobody. Uh oh, that's a problem. Next up we've got edible Knarfy merch. I like it. Product placement. In fact, I liked it so much that I added its own creative inventory tab. And here they all are the edible gray beanie, the edible black trucker hat with a purple logo, the edible blue beanie, the edible truck, black trucker hat, the edible red trucker hat. And something you might notice is that each one has a little Knarfy signature on it because this is actually my new line of Knarfy signature hats. If you head over to store.knarfy.com, you'll see a new selection of Knarfy signature hats. These things are intentionally incredibly simple because I wanted them to be really easily worn out in public without it feeling like weird and YouTuber-y merch looking, you know? Plus the hats are all really high quality. They're actually my new favorite thing to wear during the day. In fact, I'm actually wearing one right now. They're genuinely really high quality and they're something I'm planning on wearing pretty much every day. They're my new daily wear. So if you're interested, head to the link in the description or go to store.knarfy.com for your hats now. And because of the company we're doing this through, I can actually give you a little video thank you. So if you're interested in that, I might go through and find your order and say thank you to you. I've done that to a few people already and it's really fun. Plus bonus feature, they're all edible. Not really, maybe don't eat the real hats. Maybe that's not a smart call. Maybe don't do that. But hey, they're delicious in game. Once again, there's a link in the description or that's store.knarfy.com. Let me just finish off my meal here. Yeah, just finish off all this. Yeah, yeah. Delicious. A peanut butter and jelly sandwich, but you have to travel to three different faraway locations to collect each ingredient in which you then have to craft into the sandwich. And when you eat it, it gives two hunger points and an achievement that says, was it worth it? Well, I guess we'll find out. There's three places we need to head to. And to start off, it's lucky that we've already got this right here. The first ingredient we're gonna get comes from pillager outposts and mansions. And if we head on up here to this chest, you may have seen it earlier. This is the sandwich bread. The next place we need to get into is this, the bastion. Because naturally the piglins are gonna have something we need, right? How am I, how do I? Hello, is there a chest down here? Oh, hello, there's a brute. Oh no. I haven't mentioned how This peanut butter and jelly may be the most highly sought after item in the game. Uh oh, that's not good. Thank goodness I'm in creative mode and have resistance. You can't stop me. There's nothing in the chest. There's nothing important. Okay. Look, parkour civilization. No, no, no, please, please guys, please. Come on, chill out. Come on. Okay, there's still nothing in this bastion. I'm out of here. Goodbye, I've seen you peeps. Have I mentioned how insane these are to find? All right, here we go. Second bastion. Oh geez. (upbeat music) Here we go. Third bastion, third bastion. Gotta be in here, right? Gotta be. You, chest, nothing. Another chest, still nothing. Please, please, please, please, please, please, please stop it guys. Please chill out. I just, all I need is you. Yes, I found it. Peanut butter. Any more, any more peanut butter? No peanut butter, but I got it to Iron Block's Curse of Vanishing. Have I mentioned how dangerous this expedition is, by the way? And the third location we need to go is exactly where you'd expect. Oh boy. Okay, I gotta get to the outskirts. What's in here? What's in here? Nothing. I got an Elytra before I got the third ingredient. Come on, yes, I got it. I'm out. Goodbye. See you later. Oh my gosh. The hardest item in the game. I'm gonna fall. I'm so dead. Oh no. So let's recap. We got sandwich bread from the Pillagers. We got peanut butter from the Bastion. And we got jelly from the End City. And what do we get? The PB&amp;J. Challenge complete. Was it worth it? Nope. Okay, so this next one says pipe bomb, but you see that little, you see that little translate to English button? Well, when I clicked that, it translated it to good pipe. So that's what I decided to code. This here is the good pipe. And if you eat it... Yeah, that checks out, doesn't it? But you'll also notice the way that I'm holding it right now, because this thing also has 11 attack damage. Yep. Come here, cow. (laughs) This thing, fricking one-shot stuff. And it has zero durability. This thing is an insanely powerful weapon. It's both an insanely powerful weapon to smack things with, and it's a delicious snack. I like this suggestion. It's a pretty good pipe. This is all we really needed. This is what we needed. You know, this is what we needed in a food video. A pipe. That's awesome, that's so good. Exploding hot dog. Yeah, I expect nothing less from my viewers. And to be completely honest, that is all that that was going to be. But then I read this next comment. &quot;Adding onto the &quot;add ketchup, mustard, and relish, &quot;which are the same as honey &quot;when you eat them on their own, &quot;but if you put them all on a crafting table &quot;with a hot dog, &quot;it gives you every effect &quot;an enchanted golden apple would.&quot; So that's exactly what we did. We've got ketchup, we've got mustard, and we've got relish, all going with the exploding hot dog to give us the delicious explosive hot dog. And oh yeah, is it delicious? It sure does taste great. Delicious, but still exploding. Yup, it gives you an advancement, and then it still blows you up. And you'll also notice that yes, it does give you every effect that a golden apple does, but it doesn't matter, because you still blow up. It's just explosive, so yup. Hey, Barista, don't stand too close. Oh, rest in peace. Anyways, let's move on to the next comment, I think. &quot;Hot cross buns that obnoxiously play the piano tune &quot;when you take a bite out of them.&quot; (piano music) (laughs) Ah, yup, mm-hmm. Yeah, this, yeah, no, this, yeah, there's a few different versions, a couple different versions of hot cross buns in there. Would you believe me if I told you I played all of those myself? Because I sure would believe me. They are terrible. Yup, nice, cool, awesome, love that. Just, yup, that's it, that's the whole bit, that's it, that's the whole thing, huh? Cool. I love that I just messed up in that one. That's it, that's hot cross buns. That's what they are, they're just hot cross buns. Sick. (laughs) Hold on a minute, you work for me. You just wanted dino nuggies in the game. Absolutely. Oh my God. Oh, oh, you're just eating dino nuggies. I would love a dino nuggie. All right, let's dig into the inspiration behind these. What did you want dino nuggies for? Because they're the best type of nuggies. You know what, that's fair, I agree with this. Do they do anything? They just kinda-- No, they just simply exist for happiness and sunshine and joy and life. Oh, hey, can you just, hey, can you eat that real quick for me, could you just eat that for me? Sure, are you sure this is safe? Yep, yep, totally, mm-hmm. All right. Dragon fruit, but if you eat it, you catch fire and shoot out fireballs. That makes total sense, that's how that works. Oh geez, oh geez, whoo, oh my gosh. Yeah, that's crazy. Imagine if it did that in real life, that would be something else. What happens if I just keep eating them? Just shoot out more fireballs and just keep shooting out fireballs. It sure does, this is fine, this is fine. I'm thriving, I'm thriving right now. This is fine, ah! Oh my gosh. Knarfy was blown up by Knarfy. Never in my life have I seen a more accurate sentence than that, bacon, but it's actually a cookie, along with a cookie, but it's actually bacon. Oh boy, buckle up. So naturally, you know, we've got raw pork chops that drop from pigs. Well, if we go ahead and put this right here in the smoker, we'll get ourselves some cooked pork chop. And if we just take that cooked pork chop and we put it right back into the smoker, because you can totally do that, naturally, you just get yourself some bacon. Awesome, we love to see it. Well, this is where it gets confusing. So a cookie bacon is where you bake a cookie, you cook, you bake a cookie and you cook a bacon. So baking a cookie, wait, I'm gonna, so I have to bake a cookie, right? So if I bake a cookie, then I take that, and then I get some, then I get cookie bacon, right? But if I cook bacon, then I get myself, then I get a bacon cookie. So a bacon cookie is baked cookie, wait, no, hold on. So a bacon cookie is a cooked piece of bacon and a cookie bacon is a baked piece of cookie. What, huh, what, how does, what? They're both edible, they're both, it's a bacon cookie, and a, why do I hate the idea of both of these, but especially the bacon cookie, cookie bacon, bacon cookie, cookie bacon, do I, this hurts my brain and I don't wanna be here anymore. I'm just gonna, we're just gonna leave these here overnight. Maybe some of the monsters can take it. I'm just gonna have a snack real quick. Now you may be wondering yourself, Knarfy, that was only 15 comments. Where are the other remaining 17 or 18 or however many other comments that I said there were at the beginning? Well, that's the thing, a lot of them are immensely simple. So what we're about to do is something called rapid fire, where I'll just read the comment and I'll show you the functionality. The main goal of this video is to entirely overwhelm my friends with the number of random items and explosions, I mean, random items, not explosions, I don't know what you mean, I definitely didn't mean to do that. I just wanna overwhelm them. You know, there's 75 individual items in this game, and if you check this tab real quick, look at how insane this is. So let's, let's go through a few of these rapid fire, shall we? I may not touch on all the functionality, but I sure will get a lot of it. Here we go, rapid fire in three, two, one, glue that gives you slowness 900,000 to make your FOV really small. Here we go, glue, yep, that's what it does next. How about the lava cookies from Pokemon? You got it, lava cookies that put me in lava, oh my Gosh. A candy cane sword, yep, this thing does damage and you can also eat it, delicious, yay. Also I have speed now, wee. Gummy bears that when you bite them, they bite you. Yum, delicious, ow, ow, ow, ow. Me, me, air, yes, add air as food. Oh, what's that, a shadow on the ground? Oh, look at you, look at that, there's air, I'm holding air, delicious. Oh, jeez, snickers that when eaten, make a loud laughing noise. (laughing) Yeah, this is snickers, all right. Red Bull doesn't give you wings and just drops you from the sky, have fun. Oh boy, I sure will. Wait, doesn't this one usually give you wings? Not anymore. Coca-Cola that explodes when thrown. Oh yeah, this is a fun one, yeet. See that cow, yeet, not anymore. I'm gonna catch it, I'm gonna catch it, I see it. It's right there, I'm gonna get it, I'm gonna get it. Wow, I'm alive. A bowl of rocks that makes an absurdly loud crunching noise. Nice. (crunching) Delicious, rock pancakes with lava syrup. Okay, don't mind if I do, rock pancakes. All right, some lavas, we can use that as some lava syrup. Yum. (crunching) No, I guess that, I guess that makes sense. Bottle of water and there's a scream of a British saying, &quot;Baw-wah.&quot; Oh, don't worry, we got you covered. (slurping) just gotta let it play through. Just gotta let it play through. Oh, what a beautiful, what a beautiful theme. What a beautiful anthem. Ah, it brings a tear to your eye. The beautiful country of the United Kingdom. It's beautiful, it's so beautiful. (groaning) I don't even live there, I'm an American. Monster energy, but spawn monsters on speed. Spawn monsters on speed. (crunching) Pop rocks, you have fire fireworks explode whenever you eat them. All right, well here's a bag of pop rocks and if I just pull some of those pop rocks out of there and then I just eat those, we firework, yay! (clapping) (crunching) I actually really like this one. Ranch flavored ketchup. Ranch flavored ketchup, huh? (crunching) Huh, kinda tastes like ranch. Durian, which you can also use as a weapon. Cool, let me just munch on that real quick. Ow, that's spiky, well, let me run on over here and yay! Come here, cow, come here, cow. You're so, hoo-baah. I missed, hoo-baah, hoo-baah, hoo-baah. It hurt me, hoo-baah, hoo-baah, hoo-baah. It works, it's a durian. Nice, yellow snow. It's just yellow snow. Oh, I don't know if I, I don't know if I want, I don't know if I wanna eat. (crunching) (groaning) Tide pod. No, man, please, please, no. I don't feel so good. I don't feel so good. I don't feel so good, man. I think I ate too many Tide pods. (laughing) Can you tell this group session is gonna be absurd? Oh, man, I just have far too many. There's just far too many of these. And in fact, if you wanna try them all out, there's a link in the description to the mod release. So go check it out if you dare. And now, without further ado, I present my Thanksgiving dinner. Whoa, no way, what are you guys doing here? I'm here to eat your food. Oh, well hey, have I got news for you! Where's your refrigerator? We're here to feast. We're here to feast, baby. Let's go eat some food, cause I'm American. What was that? Are you eating gravel? Is this what we're eating? I can do the tea crunch. I don't want that to be honest. Wow. Look at this. Can we eat that? Let's kinda look at-- No, don't eat it. That's a phantom. Don't eat that. Don't eat it. Narfi, why do you have a stuffed phantom? Don't worry about it. Oh my god, what is that? Can we eat this? Can I eat that? Oh, oh, oh. Crack down the window. Oh, crack down the window. We're gonna find out. He's a hardcore champion. He's a hardcore pro. Anyways, go on this way for the tour. The grand tour. Step into the grand tour. James over there. Hi James. Hi James. Wow. This is crazy. This is a room. Oh yeah, pay no attention to the closet or the doors there. What's this? It's fun. There's a chest in here, Narfi. You should subscribe. [LAUGHTER] I want the TV head. Do let her out of the basement. My editor. Oh no. Get back in there, you. Get back in there. Get back in there. I'm like really hungry. I need food really badly. Well OK. Well, funny you should say that because we are literally here for Thanksgiving. So oh, thanks for my-- OK. Come along this way. I need the mantles off the wall. This way. Really quickly before anything else, let's go upstairs. Just take it in. It's beautiful. Is this your childhood home, Knarfy? Nope. I don't know who lives here. Can I eat this, guys? Gosh, leave the statues. Me. This book-- this book is very important. What's it say? What's it say? Oh, it says subscribe to-- I forgot it. Narfi. There we go. All right, OK. Let's just go have a seat. Let's go have a seat. OK. Let's just jump off a balcony. Oh, I'm truly-- There's stairs right there. Narfi, you don't need that. You can sit next to me. OK. What is Thanksgiving? So Thanksgiving is this little holiday that we have in the US. I know you don't really know what the US is. The United States. It's where you eat a lot. It's, yeah, it's a big holiday where the United States gets even fatter. So that's what we're doing today. Oh. Oh, OK. Yeah, yeah. No, we don't have that in Europe. Yeah. From my perspective, it looked like Fundy was sitting on your lap, Knarfy. I'm not even gonna lie to you. He's like, come here, little child. Sit on my lap. Let me tell you the story of Thanksgiving. What do you want for Thanksgiving? Well, I'd like to thank you all for coming to Thanksgiving dinner. Yeah. It's really-- it's a tradition now. This is the second year in a row that we're doing this. And good lord, this one is going to be insane. So-- Teacher of the question. Yes, you in the red. Why does lafless have food when we don't? And why does Coolment have a drink when we don't? Or is he just-- I-- What you-- what you drinking there? Coca-Cola. Well, it's funny you say that. This video is sponsored. That one on-- That one on Coca-- It's holiday gathering. Yeah, no, I agree with that, actually. That motion over there, that made sense. Help, I'm in a tree. Get me down, Eddie. Eddie, get me down. Catch me, laughless. Catch me. Ow. Wait, wait. Who was the editor again? Me. Eddie, are you having fun? I'm having so much fun. Oh, hi. Eddie told her-- Do you think you're going to have fun after the recording? No. I was late to it. Can I just point out the chef's been over there for a long time, and he's kind of doing everything but cook for us. He's OK. Watch. because he can literally just make food appear. I don't know. It's kind of-- Whoa. Whoa. Whoa. It's kind of crazy. Whoa. Dig in. How would nothing possibly go wrong? Why would it-- Nothing could possibly go wrong. I almost just-- I'm an adult. I'm an edible hat. Edible black and gray trucker hat with purple logo. I'm going to eat this. Yeah. They're high in fiber. Black trucker hat. Whoa, this is amazing. Are you saying you could get this on knarfy.shop right now? Actually, store.knarfy.com. But yeah. That's right, it is. Yeah, store.knarfy.com. Wow, I'm going to give it a little crunch right now. I have-- But-- That's unfortunate. I got a tide pod. Let's go. Yeah. Guys, I'm going to keep eating those. Nothing could possibly go wrong. I'm going to eat them. Oh. Oh, there we go. They're turning into-- Oh my god, it's Willy Wonka. Wait, I-- Ow. Ow. Ow. Wait. Does anyone know where my air went? Can someone help me find my air? Oompa. Oompa. Doopati-do. Knarfa is really- Go and eat some Dorian. They were good. Funny catch. Oompa. Coolment, have you tried-- have you tried the water yet? No. I got killed by Knarfy. Let me grab you-- Yeah. Here you go. Here you go. Yeah, please, please. Mm-mm. I sure do love being hydrated. Ooh. Ooh. Ah, what the-- Now drink the new one. Drink this one. [MUSIC PLAYING] Bottle of water baby, welcome back to another episode of me drinking bottle of water. Here I go. America, baby, thanksgiving. This is taking a very long time to drink this bowl. I'm really wishing this bit would end because I'm running out of things to say. Oh, boy. I'm so sorry for the-- I'm over there. Yeah. I'm over there. Yeah. Run. Hey, Fundy. Hey, Fundy. Hey. Hey, I've got something specifically for you right now. You ready? Come here. OK. I'm excited about it. It's not designed for you, but I think you'll enjoy this. I think you'll think this is nice. You think this is nice. OK. Go ahead and grab some money. Yep. Just-- you know, that's my vault. Don't worry about it. And this guy right here sells you something really nice. Oh, extra large ice salt and caramel coffee mozzarella with two pumps of vanilla, four pumps of hazelnut, extra mozzarella sauce, chips, chocolate drizzle, extra caramel drizzle, a scoop of vanilla bean powder, and extra whip. Oh, extra whip. No, I can run it for you. I want to run it for you. I'll still take a sip, just in case. [LAUGHTER] [SCREAMING] I got a drink. Oh, this seems unhealthy. I don't know what you mean. It's really good. It's really delicious. It's one of the-- oh my gosh. Oh my god. [LAUGHTER] Oh, no. I can mix this. I can move it around. It's all good. I'm on fire. Oh, careful. The floating blueberries. Ballistic blueberry. That's what that-- but then I read its name. It's called the Delicious Explosive-- Coolment, can you eat that one? No, no. Don't worry. I love being part of the bit. Whee! Yeah! Oh, yeah. This is great. It's delicious, ladies. It looks delicious. You've got a lot of-- [SCREAMING] That's some monster energy right there, if I've ever seen it. Wow, you can sell. That's some monster energy right there. Oh, come on, come on, come on. Subscribe to Chocolate Bar. What is this? Dude. I got to take another drink of my soda. Coolment, I found your soda. Look, I found it. It's right here. Oh, I appreciate it so much. Hold on. Wow, it really is. Hold on. Catch. Everybody I know and love is dead. Hey, Noah, can you pass me a durian? I'm feeling kind of-- Yeah, yeah, yeah. Let me-- I got to just-- here you go. Here you go. You know how it be. Here you go. Hey, catch. I cheer. What is the structure of this video? Oh, I heard you. Is this how the last one went? Good luck. I don't know. Good luck. I'm going to die. Nxtric acid. [SCREAMING] It's wrong. I must eat this bacon cookie. Knarfy is an edible black trucker hat with a purple logo from the Knarfy store. It sure is, Crag Dyna. Why are you glowing? What? Yup, you know what's crazy? You can get one for yourself at store.knarfy.com. Is no one else concerned? This is an ad integration that we already did in this video. Can I click the link in the description below? You sure can, Crag Dyna. You sure can. No way. For the record, this is exactly what I was looking for. And I'm so sorry, Eddie. I'm so sorry. How are you meant to use this footage? Eddie's just leaving. Eddie's just leaving. Eddie's just going to visit the village. Eddie's just gone. Yeah, I know. They're done with this footage. It's impossible to record this right now. Make sure that's in the video. So nobody has to give you the holiday bonus. Oh, what's this? Oh, it's a Wonka Fizzy lifting drink. OK. Oompa loompa doompa do. Pop rocks. Oh, ow, ow, ow. Oh, nitric acid. I love that. Can you help me, please? Ow. Who invited this guy? Help. He has gone to the freaking moon. Yeah, I'll go get him. Don't worry. Yeah, yeah, yeah. See you later. [LAUGHTER] Catch me, catch me, catch me, catch me, catch me, catch me. [EXPLOSION] Holy. Fundy if you tried the Sour Patch Kids. I don't know. If I want to try-- I want to try the Sour Patch Kids. Oh, that's-- that's-- you're toxic. [LAUGHTER] This will sync the audio. This will sync the audio. This will sync the audio this way. Yeah, this will sync the audio. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. [MUSIC PLAYING] [LAUGHTER] Jesus. It's so loud. We work for him. I can't destroy a small village of children any more than I'd know. Can I give a try? Hey, hey, hey, Knarfy. Yeah. you were able to mic up the voices in your head. What did you use to do that? What is Laf doing? Hello. Can op me, please? That's the only way I can have fun. I don't-- I can't-- you're not on-- ow. OK, this is got-- what is this? Oh, actually-- I think the laugh found the other relative that you might-- Really funny about that, actually. Regular ketchup. Ranch flavored ketchup. Isn't that just ranch, then? It's ketchup. Eat it, Fundy. Eat it. Eat it, Fundy. I'm not hungry. I need to get hungry. Kill him. So he becomes Fundy. Kill him. Kill him because he's hungry, Fundy. Fundy. Oh, my god. You're going to taste like-- I need to be hungry. Can you at me, please? That's the only way I can have fun. I can't. Sorry. Can op me, please? I cannot op you. Who took all of us to move? I am literally not getting-- oh, I'm hungry. I'm hungry. Stop. Stop. Wait. Somebody move. Huh. Kind of tastes like ranch. I get it. I get it. Shut up. [MUSIC PLAYING] [LAUGHTER] Help. Help me, please. Please. I know he came home. Oh, no. Oh, no. He's being chased by a freaking Minecraft hater. Yeah, let's go check out Laugh. I think he went out back. Lafless, are you OK? Oh, he's dead. He's dead. He just exploded. Don't worry. I'll save you. It's fine. Is this a bread? Yeah, OK. Hot crud. There we go. He's counting hot dog. What is this? You're pouring the back of the house up, Crag. You put a hole in the back of the house. There is a hole. It's my whole review. It's over here. [LAUGHTER] [INTERPOSING VOICES] Yeah. I say we break the news to Knarfy very calmly, OK? Hey. Hey, here. a hole in your house. Geico's not going to pay for this one. Oh, no. With these screaming [BLEEP] dogs, man. It's times like these that I question my own job. Hot cross buns. What's happening? Is this piano or something? Ow, no, please. I hurt. I hurt. I hurt. Give me one. Why does a gummy bear kill me? Wait, what? I don't-- what is the effect? What's wrong with gummy bears? It's just a regular gummy bear. The orange ones aren't that great, though, to be fair. Dragon fruit. Oh, whoa. Whoa. Oh. Oh. Oh, god. Oh, god. Oh, my god. Oh, I get it. Because it's what you play on the piano when you're learning. Is that Coca-Cola? I won't miss. I won't miss. Come here. Come here. I won't miss. Come here. Hey, I got one. Oh, my god. Bonus points. No. You're just killing him. I'm going to block you this time. Laugh, catch. I'm not going to have to catch. I'm so good at dodging. And I'm really-- Guys. Guys. I'm going to do it. Don't do it. Don't do it. Don't do it, buddy. Don't do it. Don't do it. Don't do it. Don't do it. Oh, my god. Oh, god. No. You're trying to chase your kid in life. Oh, god. Where am I going? Oh, don't put me in a tree. Don't put me in a tree. Don't put me in a tree. Don't put me in a tree. Don't put me in a tree. Don't put me in a tree. It put me-- This was all a mistake. I hope you all know this. Happy Thanksgiving, everybody. Happy Thanksgiving, everybody. Happy Thanksgiving. Happy Thanksgiving. Happy Thanksgiving. You can get yourself some-- [LAUGHTER] I was going to do a merch plug, but that didn't quite work out the way I anticipated it would go. Nope. I'm happy. I'd like to apologize for interrupting your merch plug. I'm in the tree again. Give me down, Eddie, please. Anyways, I'll see you guys later. What? What? Dude, he makes me want to eat children. Wow. with all of my favorite little Minecraft friends. This was so lovely other than dying over and over and over. Yeah, we even have a new family member joining us today. We have this guy over here. Oh, oh, no. Oh, no. Oh, no. Oh, he did not like that. Oh, no. Don't get angry at the dinner table. Gosh, calm down. Geez. This is why we don't talk about polars. Oh, no. Exactly. It's a little spicy. OK, we've got him today. He's going to be joining us. Who the heck is that? It's Minecraft sucks for 20. I didn't even see this guy thread the entire recording. What did he drop? It's the soul of a Minecraft hater. I don't want it. Soul of a Minecraft hater. Can I eat this too? Oh, I let it go. I let it go. You can't release it. Oh, I let it go. Oh, god. Hey, Knarfy. Uh-huh. We're going to get food, right? So thanks for coming. [SCREAMING] I'm going back to my closet. Back to the subscribe closet. Were you waiting on it? You knew he was going to starve us? Come back here. You ain't going anywhere. OK, he's beating up a man. Hey, that guy's innocent. He was free later. OK. Hey. Why would he be a man? What is that? It's yellow. It's a snowball. I'll take the snowball. Yeah. Ah! Ah, no, give me the snow. Listeners, there's two outcomes. Either this tastes like lemon, or it's delicious. And the answer is it's not delicious. It's delicious. Oh, yeah, this is your house. Oh, right. Oh. Oh. Oh. Well-- Well, Happy Thanksgiving, everybody. I'm going to run from the cops. Bye! [MUSIC PLAYING] We didn't get to say what we were thankful for. I'm thankful that this video is over. What are you thankful for, Fundy? Yeah. I'm thankful this recording wasn't more than-- Hey, so can I get that bonus now?