I am at a gold mine a couple hours outside of Melbourne, because, one kilometer underground, they're putting in a detector Let's go. (epic music) It's gonna take 30 minutes to go down a kilometer underground. Dark matter is thought to make up 85% of all the matter in existence. It could form a shadow universe than everything we can see. Over the past several decades, over 50 experiments have tried to make a direct detection of dark matter, but none of them has found anything, except one. Under a mountain in the Italian Alps, there is a dark matter It's been collecting and, every year, it sees The rate of detections and then decreases to Some scientists think this could be the first direct But why would dark matter Well, this is our galaxy, or at least what it looks Astronomers suspect it is surrounded and permeated by a huge invisible particles all in random directions. According to most theories, dark matter doesn't interact except through gravity. We think there should be five as there is ordinary matter. Now, our solar system is at 220 kilometers per second. That means we're also at this rate, except earth orbits the sun So, for half the year, we're moving with the sun, going faster through dark matter. And, the other half the year, we're moving in the opposite direction, so going slower through dark matter. And, the idea is we when we're moving through it fastest, which happens to be in June, and less of it when we're moving slowest, which happens in November. The actual geometry is a The solar system is tilted at 60 degrees relative to the plane of the galaxy, but the idea still works. So, the signal observed at DAMA/LIBRA may be due to this motion or it might not be due It could just be something humidity, moisture in the or the number of tourists in Italy. All of these things fluctuate And, that is why they're gonna build an almost identical experiment down the bottom of this gold because, there, the seasons are reversed, but our motion through dark So, if we see the same signal, it's pretty strong evidence for the existence of dark matter. One of the big problems is that there are other that don't see anything. And, this has led to a lot of uncertainty about is the DAMA/LIBRA So, yeah, we don't know, right? The favorite thing in science... But, why do we think dark matter exists in the first place? In 1933, Swiss astronomer, Fritz Zwicky, was studying the coma cluster, a collection of more These galaxies are So, they all orbit around their Zwicky measured the orbital and found that somewhere moving it was as if there was a lot more matter in the cluster than he could see, pulling everything inwards. So, he proposed the existence which he called dunkle materie, the origin of the term dark matter. No one really took this idea seriously, but 40 years later, dark Vera Ruben and Kent Ford in the Andromeda Galaxy. And, they expected that the further out the slower the stars would be orbiting, but this is not what they found. The rotational velocity with increasing distance from the center. Without additional mass in the galaxy to pull those stars in, they should be flung off into space. The result was the same in other galaxies. Using radio telescopes, Albert Bosma and others even further out from a galaxy center, but the rotational velocity One way to explain this is to posit the existence dark matter, which holds all these galaxies together. So, let's say you have a star and this represents the mass of everything in the center of the galaxy The star can maintain a stable orbit if it's centripetal force is equal to the gravitational attraction to all the mass in the rest of the galaxy. And, so you can see that at this is the speed of the orbit. Okay, but what happens if So, this water bottle represents now there is more mass pulling which means, at the same orbit, it can now go much faster, and, in fact, it must go And, this explains the observation. This is what we see. (metal clanking) (Derek laughing) By looking at the scientists estimate that about 85% of the mass of a galaxy is dark matter. But, there's another way to without invoking dark matter. And, that is to modify What's the supporting that the particle idea and we should actually be looking at a revised theory of gravity? We can either invoke or you just say, well, the and we need a way to explain And, the only way we can do that is by modifying the laws of physics. So, when you look at the they've got a lot of Dark matter says that well, is due to the gravitational Whereas, the people who that's centripetal acceleration, that's just the fact that and can't get any lower. So, they, they're saying that due to dark matter, but there's a limit to how I think the consensus is hugely in favor of it being a physical substance, in that it just seems reasonable that is that it could be that we haven't seen yet. And, there's more evidence. This is the bullet cluster, a site where two clusters Most of the ordinary is in the interstellar gas. And, when the collision occurred, the interstellar gas interacted, So, you'd expect that most of would be in the middle But, if you use gravitational lensing, the way that gravity bends light, you can actually measure where most of the mass in this picture is. And, it isn't in the middle. It's actually on either side. So, the best way to explain this is that when the clusters collided, all that gas got stuck in the middle, but the dark matter passed right through, creating the most gravitational lensing where we can see the Even more evidence for dark matter comes from the oldest 380,000 years after the big bang, light could finally travel And, this is what we see as the cosmic microwave background or CMB. The red spots show was a little hotter and the blue spots show but these temperature Just 0.01%, but they are there. And, you can turn this by counting up how many blobs So, there's the most common size blob, which results in this peak, but there are also And, so you get these other Now, the height of these peaks depends on how much dark matter there is. In a universe without dark matter, the graph looks like this, but as dark matter increases, the amplitudes of even To match the measurements of the CMB, we need about five times as ordinary matter. This figure also agrees with required to explain the and the motion of galaxies in clusters. So, the dark matter hypothesis explains a lot of different observations with a simple theoretical framework, that there's some type that only interacts through gravity. But, what is this particle exactly? Well, since we don't know, scientists have proposed a that it could be. And, now we have to try The approach differs depending on what you're trying to find. Dama Libra and the detector are looking for WIMPs, weakly interacting massive particles. These particles are expected to weigh about as much as a proton, but interact with ordinary At the heart of the detector, our seven seven kilogram So, that's actually Yeah. I didn't expect it to be so clear. The idea is that very, very may hit a nucleus in the crystal and transfer its energy. This creates a flash of which is detected by very sensitive light detectors, which are positioned above But, there's a problem, even the purest sodium iodide crystal contains radioactive potassium. And, when a potassium atom decays, it emits an electron and a gamma ray. Now, the electron can cause a just like the hypothesized So, to eliminate these events, the sodium iodide crystals are submerged in a tank full of 12 tons This is a liquid scintillator that emits light when and that light can then be detected by photo multiplier tubes in the tank. So, if there's a simultaneous and in the tank, it was most likely a potassium decay, not a dark matter event, but there's another problem, cosmic rays. Energetic particles from the sun and other galaxies hit the creating muons, essentially heavy electrons, which stream toward the earth at close to the speed of light. Muons can also create flashes This is Muon detector, and it's got these three separated by some pieces of steel. If we see a flash of light in all three, basically the same time, then we know that Muon So, if I hit reset, we can see, counting up the muons being seen. So, it's at least a few a second. This is why all sensitive are located deep underground Here, we have the muon detector, now one kilometer underground, and it's been running for and there have been no muon counts. Yeah, we have to leave this I think, even if we wanted We expect the number of muons down here to be about a million less. And, we didn't see a million at the top, so we're probably not And, this is the whole point of putting a dark matter You wanna get rid of all the background that would create noise in the detector. But, even this shielding is not enough. We all have muon detectors So, if a flash is seen in a crystal at the same time a muon is detected, it can be ruled out. Being underground brings The walls of the mine of radioactive elements which decay into radon gas. The requirements here are fairly serious for dark matter experiments. We have to completely in particular, the radon level. To counteract this, the walls with special paint to contain The crystals are immersed in a continuous stream And, the entire detector is shielded by 120 tons of steel and plastic. Wow, look at the size of that cavern. There is a lot riding on this experiment. It will validate or disprove one of the most contentious So, if we see nothing, well, this is the death of DAMA/LIBRA but if we see something, I actually like the idea that because 80% of the mass of or dark stuff, maybe there's more than just one particle that dark matter is made of. It could be an entire dark A dark version of or maybe something more complex, 'cause there's so much more of it. Like I really hope it's that. - Do you think that dark matter interacts with ordinary matter? - If we want to find we better hope there's that we can at least probe when it comes to doing experiments. If God gave me the great book of physics and there were two sections, one for the luminous matter and one for dark matter, and they didn't talk to each other, I would say that was a But, in science, we have to that, at some level, we It may elude us, but at least we tried. The sponsor of this video, Brilliant, is the opposite of dark matter. You see it everywhere and Brilliant is an innovative that guides you through engaging, hands on courses in math, They have great courses on so to probability, to computer It's the ideal compliment to watching educational YouTube videos. After learning about a topic, you can dive deeper and so you really understand it. For example, if you wanna learn more about dark matter, gravitational lensing, and the cosmic microwave background, I highly recommend their A lot of care and attention Every lesson and interactive simulation builds on what you've learned previously. And, every step of the way, through quizzes, which and reinforce what you've learned. If you get stuck, there's So, I encourage you to check over at brilliant.org/veritasium. And, I bet you'll find something there that you wanna learn more about. Plus, if you click through right now, Brilliant are offering 20% off an annual premium subscription to the first 200 people to sign up. So, I want to thank Brilliant and I want to thank you for watching.