- [Female Reporter] - [Male Reporter] We have throughout Oklahoma. On the radar now are thunderstorms in several of the central counties. These include Cleveland, Logan, Lane, and (mumbles) (piano music) (thunder rumbling) (wind rustling) - Looks like it's about 10 knots. No sign of any (mumbles) - This one's moving in - Look mommy, I'm a bird. - What kind of bird honey? - Like the bluejays flying overhead. - Well you just keep the - Don't fly away. - You know at breakfast this morning, she told me she wanted to be a scientist, like her mother. - Oh (laughs) - That's right. Temperature's dropped five degrees. - Hmm. - If I'm right, it's gonna Dee, Dee, you get in the car - Let's get out of here now. - Yeah, just give me - No! - Get in the car. (wind howling) - Mommy. Mommy! - Ahhh! - No! (screaming) - Mommy, where are you? - Careful, Steven, my jacket's about to - Sorry, but if this guy's for - Forget about being real, just some great storm pandering to get high ratings. - There are certain tornadic that can be detected but that's just a part because without new methods the Federal Aviation Administration's Terminal Doppler Weather Radar, obviously a step in the right direction but quite frankly it's not enough. - It's time. - Ah, my assistant five minutes away from set down so let's just cut to the chase. About 75% of the tornado warnings issued by the National Weather so people have just gotten in The NWA would like to by the year 2005. I believe the Arledge system Dr Arledge, you actually is going to set down here Aren't we all in danger? - You're always in danger Right now that's primarily when the tornado's gonna hit, or where. Entire streets of homes can be wiped out in a matter of seconds, hundreds of people killed, thousands of people made homeless. The cost of fixing the damage My invention can't do much but it can save those lives. - That's a very ambitious goal, doctor. - Ah, yesterday I sent the exact time, course that would set down precisely five miles beneath our present position. So ladies and gentlemen if on the plane below us here, we should see a funnel - Maybe it's just a real small tornado. (laughter) - Now all wait just a minute. - Dr Arledge, can you tell Well folks it looks keep on depending on your local news for those tornado warnings for a while. I'm Kirt Reid with Eye of the Storm. Cut. - Dee, this is our chance, - Why bother, he's hanging (suspenseful music) - [Kirt] Aren't we all in danger? - You're always in danger Right now that's primarily tornado's gonna hit or where. - Yes sir, I have it right here. As soon as it gets in. Yes. (TV chatter) (keyboard clicking) We're on again. - Those vultures picked all - Got a couple of messages. - Yeah, any of them worth returning? - The Dean, the Board, Kirt Reid. He wants another interview, - Well this time he'll and ask if it wouldn't be to cut my own throat for his audience. - Jake, I know we can but right now... - Look, it's been a long week. Why don't you just take some time off? I need to be alone, see if I - It's not your only problem. OAM's frozen your grant. - Oh my god, did you get your check? - No, I was too late. - (sigh) alright, look, I can get you some cash with my plastic for the time being. - Well this month sure, My car's in the shop. - Here. - Well what's this? - It's a pink slip to the other van. - I'll take it, but only as a form of collateral and you can pay me real money. - (laughs) deal. - This should have worked. - I know (sigh) (ringing) - [Dr Arledge] 75% of the National Weather Service are false alarms so people have just gotten in - Dr Arledge you actually will set down here in just a few minutes. Aren't we all in danger? - He didn't predict an F5, you doofus. - Are you saying that Kirt Reid doesn't know what he's talkin' about? - Kirt Reid is a two-bit storm chaser who wouldn't know an F5 from an F plus. - What's an F plus? - The grade he got in his high school - You should be watching this Dee. Kirt Reid may be an with a local show that's People love this guy. - Maybe people watch his show he can get from week to week. - Look Mazur, here's the real scoop. You keep telling me you don't that you want to get out in the field and become a real reporter but to do that you need to first and foremost is - Mm hmm. - You're a little too long in the tooth to still be hanging on - I'm idealistic just because I believe in being accurate Dad? - It's like this. Kirt Reid knows what the public And I'm betting Kirt gettin' the dirt on this Arledge guy. - Jake Arledge is washed up. That system of his was never gonna work. Now the whole world knows it. - Which is why he's hot right now. Look, if Kirk wants him, let's Or I'll get someone else who will. Is that weather clear enough for you? - What a beautiful day. - Did you forget something? - Dr Arledge? - Yeah. - I didn't mean to startle you. My name's Mark Scott. - Well please go away, - Uh, do you remember me? That's okay I think I - You knew my daughter. - Yes, yes, yeah I liked her a lot. - Yeah I remember, you were the kid with the torn blue jeans, used to come by the house and - The very same, but don't worry I'm not gonna ask you I'm working with Dr at the UFO's Weather Center. So I know a little bit more - Fletcher send you over or just a small painful poison? - Uh, no, no. Actually Dr Fletcher well that I borrowed this from his office. I saw the news and I think I can help. Who did the programming on your software? - We farmed it out, none - I guessed as much, because if you did, you would have found the mistake. You see this? - Yeah. - This will help it get - Well how do you know about this stuff? - Oh well, I have double major, climatology and programming. - Uh huh. - Thanks to you by the way, I taught myself basic on the - Oh, isn't that nice. - Uh, may I? - Why not. (keyboard clicking) - There see, instead of that, I'd do this. - Well, that doesn't make any sense. See we had almost three successful tests with that old system. - Well I think that's involving conditions with the last one did. Let's see what we got here. Okay well, if this is correct 70 miles from here, today, in just over two hours. - Looks like it's near Reeds, I wonder if there's a tornado warning out. - No, they have no idea it's coming. - Yes I know that there's in the Reeds area yet, but what you have to understand is this thing is gonna go like a hot knife through butter. Now if we can just get they can start packing right now and... Oh shoot. Think the phone lines went dead. How long will it take to get to Reeds. - An hour and twenty. - That'll put me there about That ought to be enough time - Well, who in turn will verify that you warned them about... - A storm that nobody Listen, Mr... - Mark, Mark. - Mark, well I can't tell you you've done here but I'm gonna - Well, do you mind if I tag along? - Uh, well I'm gonna need some help. Start yanking wire. (engine rumbling) (car door slams) - We going in? - No point, he just left. - Yeah well, you might wanna - Oh, great. Kirt Reid. Okay go, let's join the circus. (seatbelts click) (radio music) - [Radio Host] KRAJ Radio News Talk 1050, you are listening to on this Thursday afternoon. I'm David Brandon for Richard Kelly. Today we look at cafeteria and we talk to tornado survivor... - They are greater storms and tempests than almanacs can report. Shakespeare said that. - He did, did he? (radio chatter) Mr Scott, have you ever - Uh, no, no. I mean I've read about them, I've read about what they've done, the destruction they've caused but I've never been caught in one. - Well once you have been caught in one, lost somebody to one, all those poetic thoughts will be erased. - [Ted] Dee I wanna know - Yeah, we're on to it, Ted, uh huh. - Don't let Kirt Reid scoop it. - Right, bye. - What the hell's he doing out here? - Well we'll find out won't we. (radio chatter) - This may sound kinda paranoid but I think we're being followed. - That's not paranoia, that's Kirt Reid. - What's this? - Well, some kind of accident. - [Radio Host] We interrupt an urgent weather bulletin. A tornado has just set down Wind speeds over 100 miles - We were right, the - Still, nobody's gonna believe we were able to predict this. All we woulda needed was some witnesses. (engine revving) - [Radio Host] The safest is in the basement, get under If no basement is available, seek shelter in the lowest or in an interior hallway or room such... - Can we get around this? - Not unless you can grow us some wings. - Ugh, this is taking forever. - [Radio Host] Use blankets and always stay away from windows. Do not use your car to - [Steve] Hey now that we've lost Arledge, let's stop for lunch. All this driving is making me hungry. - Look we're on a deadline, I don't think Ted would long leisurely lunches. - Alright, let me just grab a sandwich. Where did he go? - I don't know, just head for downtown. Even if we can't find Arledge we can still get some good footage there. - Okay. Jeez. (radio chatter) - That tornado's gonna be - There's not much time. (brakes squeaking) (car doors slam) - Can I help you gentlemen? - Yeah, you need to there's a tornado headed this way. - Yeah, I heard the warnings. - Didn't you hear what he said? - I heard him. They said that twister's - Well it's not, it's headed for this spot we're standing on right now. - And how'd you know that? - Who is it, Joe? I know you, you were on - That's right Dr Arledge is a - On the news they said he didn't know what he was talking about. - Do you at least have a storm cellar? - You fellas are trespassing. - Well they're right the only time it's ever that color green is right before a twister. - Now we need to get in - Joe, what about Tammy? - Who's Tammy? - Our little girl, she's - Dr Arledge! - [Dr Arledge] Get the shelter ready. (suspenseful music) - Tammy, Tammy, go, hurry, hurry. - Tammy, Tammy. - Go, go. - Daddy, daddy. (dramatic music) - Get in Tammy. Get in, hurry. - Go, go, go. - [Mother] It's okay honey, it's okay. - It's gonna be alright - [Mother] It's gonna be okay. (wind howling) Ah, oh my god. - Get away from the opening. - Okay, it's gonna be alright. (door rattling) (wind whistling) (banging and rattling) - Don't be scared sweetheart. (screeching and rattling) (gentle music) - It passed. - So, Mr Scott, you still feel - We're here outside the where a tornado set down earlier today. - Go again Dee. - We're here outside the - Cut. (chatter and laughter) - Hey, we were taping here. - [Kirt] Excuse me folks. Sorry Dee, we didn't see you. - Right, I suppose you When you decided that we were taping here, there must be something good right? You don't have an original - My offer still stands. You can make more money than you can where you are now. - (scoff) - My ratings are big. - So is your ego. No thanks. I don't wanna cross the line like you do. - Karl. Three, two, one, Hah, when you've seen as I'd say this is a big one. (cheering) Come on storm chasers, is this the adventure - [Storm Chasers] Woo hoo! - I'm Kirt Reid with Eye of the Storm and we're off to catch - Aren't you afraid you might be driving your tours into danger? - I've seen a lot of these storms, and I've been at it a lot I know the safe distance to be at. Cut. Karl, get in the truck. Okay storm chasers, let's - Why does something inside me say Kirt Reid is in over his thick head? - He's more concerned with his ratings than those people's safety, that's why. I guess your favorite guy (engines rumbling) - Where was he hiding? - Come on, the man wants something juicy on that scientist anyway. We going after him or what? - Let's go. (door slams) - [Radio Host] And that was Meg track and as it turns out, we Welcome Jay, Chris, Meg Tulip. - [Band] Thanks for having us, thank you. - We've got trouble makers on our tail. - Who? - Kirt Reid and his storm - Ah that guy is such a fraud. He's got no qualifications at all. One time I was investigating He was there with his group, traffic sign to them, and very that only an F5 could have Meanwhile, about 20 feet right behind it, there was this tree that right in two by it's impact - I have an embarrassing I went on one of his tours once. - Please tell me that's not why you wanted to become a meteorologist? - No, no, no. Actually you're why I wanted - Oh, so it's my fault huh. - Well to tell you the truth, we never even got near a tornado. Which is just as well because me killed, just drove right into one. - Yeah TV show of his makes some kind of fun ride at the county fair. He never talks about all - We got something forming, - How far? - About 100 yards. Oh don't worry it's a small one though. - An F1 could pick up this at 80 miles an hour, no you remember that. - [Radio Host] Mostly sunny late this afternoon and this evening. - They don't have a clue. Not even a tornado watch in effect. (dramatic music) - Good Arledge is right in front of him. - I can see the cell forming He's on to something. - How do you know that? - Arledge taught me a long - So you were a student - You could say that. - Then no problem, he should - I don't think so. Let's just say the class didn't end well. - But sir, if you would just listen to me, Yes I said Dr Arledge. Well no it didn't work yesterday Hello? Hello? Chief of Police in that - This things gonna pass - Man called me a kook. 30 years of work, I'm no better - Dr Arledge we need to pull over and prepare for this storm. - What, oh yeah, you're right. Let's just hope we can track Kook. - What's he doing? - He's pulling over. (brakes squeak) - Ted said he wanted us to catch - Yep, so get your camera. (car doors slam) - Look at that sky, we got us another little twister - Alright. - Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. - Come on storm chasers. - Yeah. - Alright. - Check it out, look. - This is no place for a Get outta here. - You don't need to holler. You should be nice to me, think of all the free - There's no time, get and lie flat. - In the ditch, yeah, come on folks (mumbles) in the ditch. - You can't tape here, You need to get outta here - Dr Arledge is this another prediction on the part of your system. - Look, as much as you might and give you a ride, I'm afraid my conscience won't allow it. - Dr Arledge let's talk - He's right Dee, we need to take shelter. - No, I can handle this. - Okay, but I'm heading for that ditch. - I can handle it. - If you won't listen to me at that is if being a TV - Well there appears to (wind howling) - Ladies and gentlemen, your very own F3. (laughter and cheering) - That was not an F3. - Hi Dad. You didn't have to - Yeah well one of these days when a twister changes and sucks you about a - Okay, you do your job and I'll do mine. - Great, what a time for this to happen. - Let me take a look. I think it's just the computer we lost, I can patch in my laptop. I'm a computer geek too you know. - Well, geek or not, I'm - Yeah come on. - Congratulations on being Of course you're gonna have - Well you're gonna have You're gonna get these people killed. - (laughs) that was just a small one compared to the one's we've seen. - A man can drown in - Dr Arledge, my group here pose for a few photographs, - You savage my work to the that it could save, all and make a lot of money. I'll tell you son, when it helps if they think - I believe in what - Thanks for sharing, both of you. - I'm gonna be working - Great, doctor, can we get you over here in front of that supercell. Karl, let's film. Let's go. - [Woman] Yeah come on doc, right on. - [Kirt] Let's move, come on, Karl. - Dr Arledge... - [Kirt] stand over here while I ask you questions. Come on guys, let's go. - [Woman] Oh great. Make sure you get close up of him. - Here. (scraping) - Oh, thanks. No problem. - Watch yourself. - I can get my cameraman over - No, no, no, we, we, - Hey we've met before. - Don't guys usually use that line? - No, no, really. - Okay, yes we have. - You're the kid who used - You remembered? - Sure. So what brings you back? - I believe in his work, - Even after what happened yesterday? - Oh, we fixed that. - You fixed it? - Yeah, the problem was with Two reverse variables - So the Arledge system works? - Oh, yeah, we tested on The test was almost a - Didn't you get there after - Well, yeah, but we... - So you can't really - Am I being interviews right now (laughs) - (laughs) no. I'm sorry, it's just that Arledge system myself, that it was never going to work. You can get just as much information off a SPC MSD. - But MSD's aren't enough. The Arledge system works. You should have stuck with it Dee. - How's it coming? - Good, the data's coming in right now. Let's see, we've got outside of Tupelo. We've got a... holy wind speed Batman, we've vortices on tap tomorrow - Looks like Two River Bend. What's the SPC say? - Well there's an MSD out on it, but it'll be a weather - Can I take a look? - Why? So you can do another and his tornado predictions? - I wouldn't exactly phrase it that way. - We live five miles apart Dee and I haven't seen you in 10 years and now you're here to and you expect me to help. - I don't expect anything from you. You've wasted 10 years on this system and don't have a single - You'd like nothing better wouldn't you? And then you can feel - Oh I don't have to feel You did everything you could in case you'd forgotten. - Yes, I did, but... - But what? You think if you can get this to work it'll all be okay somehow? It'll even mean that Mom didn't isn't that it? If it'd stuck around maybe - Why do you think I If you think it's because you're right, because I I always knew you could be next. And I wasn't willing to risk you the way I did... I wasn't there for your mother. - Are you saying you So you wouldn't lose me? - Oh I knew I'd lose I'm going home. - But the, the tornado. - You said they had an MSD out on it, let somebody else worry about it now. - This is your chance to prove that the Arledge system works. Especially if we get some media coverage. - And I'm sure Kirk Reid would - (laughs) fine, good luck. - Yeah she's talking to him now. - Yeah. - Let's go. - Uh, you might wanna take this first. - (sighs) yes? - [Ted] Hey. - Hi Ted. - Did you get Arledge? - Yes. - Good, I want you to stay on him. - But Ted, it's ridiculous. He wants to drive us all that he thinks is gonna be - But what did I tell you? - But what? - Do I need to remind you - Look Ted can't you get anyone else? - Yeah I can get someone to - Okay. - Dee, you understand me now? - Yep, I got it Ted. Right. You set that up didn't you? - Didn't want you to (engines revving) - Two River Bend is about If we leave now we can (door slams) It's good to see Dee again. In person I mean, I've but I didn't even realize it was her with the name change and all. - Oh yeah, well that lasted for seven months. - Is she divorced? - Well sometimes she can hurt the people she loves. I don't know where she gets that. I'll let you in on a The Arledge system See when she was 19 years old, she, well she wasn't out all night partying like some of the other girls. She was helping her old and she was brilliant. She was always coming up I was still trying to form questions for. - So what happened? - Alright, that was my fault. Well she took a lot of risks, But I made things hard on her, too hard. Never really thought about it but well after the way, after - I read about that, I'm sorry. That wasn't your fault. Your wife knew she was taking - Well maybe so, but in Dee's Our last fight was over View Ridge. - View Ridge? One of the worst tornadoes ever. - Yeah. We had information that three days before it hit. Dee wanted to go into I wouldn't let her. She tried to go anyway but so she couldn't get there. She quit right after that. - Well you did the right thing. - I don't know about that. See I wouldn't let her go, so I went. I was out in the field that storm was forming in front of me. All of a sudden the wind jumped You have any idea what coming right at you and it's Whole world goes dark. Anyhow I jumped into under this big old two story house. It's pitch black in there. The sound was just deafening. Everything above me's just I can hear people up there screaming, I couldn't tell where couldn't do anything. Then the floor above me just this great big old hutch saved my life, kept me pinned down otherwise I'd have just been swept away. And then when it's all comes crashing down on you. You're not really you think that it's just waiting for the next time. - Hundreds of people died in that one. - 519. When I made it out of that the injured, the dead, maimed. I guess that's why I take than some of the others. (door knocking) - Hey. - Hey. Uh, I'm sorry to bother you but does your laptop have a - Oh yeah, yeah sure it does. Come on in. - Alright. - Have a seat. - A small tornado like the one today can be pretty scary huh. - Yeah, we were lucky nobody got hurt. - Yeah. - So your Dad was telling me on the Arledge system. I'm a little jealous he - I know what you're trying to do Mark, but Dad and I have decided not to speak on mutual consent, okay? - And you don't believe - I believe what he's trying to do is make up for what he did. For what happened to Mom. And he'll never be able - I'm sorry I didn't get The system works Dee. - Since you fixed it? - Well, yeah, but all I did was... - So now can you predict the future? - Maybe. - I want it to work, Mark, I really do, but I don't know. - Your Dad told me about View Ridge. - Oh, did he tell you how It was so stupid Mark. We needed to be there - He went there by himself Dee. - What? - He went, barely escaped with his life. If you would have been there well you probably wouldn't be here. That's what your dad did for you. I just downloaded the last five years of the Arledge system data, including the information from yesterday, which proves that it accurately - Oh. - Happy reading. - Oh, you, you forgot something. - Thanks. Good night. - Good night. (thunderclaps) - Hi there, this is Kirt Reid, reporting to you live from Two River Bend where this city is celebrating Now I must tell you folks that has issues a tornado watch for the area, effective from 11:15am to 4:30pm with a possibility of hail but I tell you folks, the about that, they don't even Despite the predictions of per hour, Two River Bend says get in the way of the biggest has ever seen. Now we spoke to the Chief who says they're not planning to curtail any of the activities. Now who could blame him, planned here today than We've got the pie bake off you guessed it, the pie eating contest, then the concert at one is followed by an autograph Yes folks, I will be So come on down, we've got a lot planned, a big big party here and I'll tell ya, don't mind if I've got a because I plan on winning So come on down. Maybe you get a little rain, who cares, we're here to one hundredth anniversary. I'm Kirt Reid, live, Channel Nine News. - This is Two River Bend, a massive tornado will in just over seven hours and head straight to where I'm standing. Dr Arledge, can you tell us - Well, if this thing were an earthquake it would be an eight on the Richter scale. We're gonna have winds in houses will be ripped cars and trucks will be - Dr Arledge can you tell our viewers what to look for when a - I imagine most people around with most of the signs are, the thick, dark, sometimes but there is something See, when the funnel or it sucks air up into itself kinda like air escaping from a big tire. - What can people do to protect Well, is your place is you're gonna get some damage. It can also be damaged by flying debris. That old story of opening a window in one corner of the house is partly true. See the pressure inside a 50% less than the pressure on the outside and it can cause things to explode just from rapid decompression. Now it doesn't really of the window is open, it to happen more slowly. Now remember though, this plenty of time that you even I can't stress enough. Take an immediate shelter and storm shelter, just get to get to a closet, get in your bathtub, that can protect you from flying debris. - People have often described with tornadoes, but - The hiss is just air. That freight train That's roofs and houses and all too often people are and blowing around at (police siren) Trees won't just be uprooted, I mean this thing's gonna these people could see in their life time. - What are the chances of surviving an F5? - Surviving an F5 is pretty rare. Immediate evacuation from it's which is what I'd recommend - Miss Dee Mazur? I'm Dotty McAnders, of Two River Bend. - Nice to meet you. - Nice to meet you. - We're still live on air. - Oh. - You've heard the tornado to prepare your folks for the emergency? - Well, Two River Bend has and we have never, I repeat The Osage Indians who lived her before us believed this place was the juncture of two rivers. Given that, our plans for of inviting it to our party (laughs) Now we've got a parade Miss Consolidated Farms, - That's right, Mayor, the We're expecting to have folks having a good old time at our party. So y'all come down you here? - Prettiest queen we ever just because she happens - The misconception that a can be lethal. Now there was town about called Emporia and they thought That is until a tornado killed over 600 people, in about 30 seconds. - Oh please, don't believe Come on down, you hear. - Hey, hey, hey. - Excuse me. - Look, I'm as big a believer as anybody but I've heard This birthday brings much into our town economy. Nobody's gonna believe this - If your behavior's any sample Mayor, I am not impressed. - Oh come on, no one will ever or earthquakes, never have, never will. My gut tells me you don't Well, you think anyone will ever be able to predict weather accurately? - I like to hope so, because of all the lives No, I don't believe it'll ever work. - Too bad you reporters what you really think. Would be a lot less trouble - Mom, it's time to go - Well at least someone here knows the priorities for this event. We need this. Nothing, I repeat nothing, - I'll take it from here. - Thanks Miller. - Folks, I'm Chief Miller. Now you need to listen that we don't want any trouble, especially from another fortune teller. - Fortune teller? Sir are you aware that for this entire state? - I get these warnings all the time. Until you have some proof Now do we understand each other - Loud and clear, Chief. - Good, I'd hate to have to arrest you and impound your vans. - You should... - It's obvious you don't right now I don't know what - Dr Arledge. - I'm going for coffee, I - Didn't you read the - Yeah I read it. - Well then why are... - There's nothing there. Wake up Mark. He's had nothing but There's no proof. - But Reeds... - Could have been sheer dumb luck. Come on Mark, you know better from one test, that's - Well maybe this isn't - Come on. (bells jingling) (cheering and chanting) - In six hours this place There's what about 2500 they could all be dead if we - Coffee gentlemen. - Thank you. - You guys are with the You're in town for the big birthday party? - Not exactly. - Hey you're the guy on TV. Is it true about that tornado warning? - Yes, it's true, we think - It's gonna come right and wind up here. In about six hours this than a pile of dust. - We need your help, your we need to warn these - The whole town will be here - The whole town, how many - Seniors, school kids, all - We won't be able to condense them. This is like the Titanic going down and the skipper's ordering - I told you there's no tornado coming. I've seen him on TV. Did he tell you how many Why should we cancel our party based on his bogus predictions? - Yes it's been wrong in the past but we've fixed it since I mean check the NWS bulletins, don't they also have a - Oh you mean the same one we There's never been a major tornado here. - Oh yes there has. You won't admit it but it's true, 1922. Leveled half the town, 800 souls perished. - Eat your lunch and shut up, Roy, you've had too much to drink again. - No, no, no, let him speak, what he has to say. - I'm not lying, I was - Come to think of it my - Listen, this is what you need to do. You need to take anything you you need to leave town now. Alright, find shelter whatever you need, just get... - Guess what, you're under arrest. - What? - Disturbing the peace. - People are gonna die. - Let's go. - Well you know, this fellow, he's made claims like this so I'm not taking him seriously at all, but you know, the sky seems clear today and it doesn't, you know, you this was a, a tornado So I think that we're gonna be okay. - [Interviewer] Yeah, to the party at the town? - I'm still gonna go to I think we're all gonna celebrating this big event and, you know, I'm looking forward to it. - I mean I see this guy on and he seemed kinda shady to - And then Mayor Dotty comes on and says everything's gonna be fine. I mean I don't really I'm not scared yet but, I have a good time, do some tonight and just play it by ear. - The tornadoes gonna be the mayor says no, what are you gonna do? - Well I'm gonna take my and go into the basement. I'm a little concerned but and see how things are. - You've never been through a tornado? - No, I never have, I'm a little concerned but I'm gonna just do what I can. - Are you scared? - Yeah I am. - This is Kirt Reid with the Channel Nine News weather bulletin. We're here in the small where they're celebrating one But about 200 miles north west from here a tornado watch has been The National Weather Service is reporting severe weather activity. - I know Ted, but, oh yeah, aha, he is, of course he is. Right, okay. He wants coverage on anything that comes or doesn't come along. - Well if Dr Arledge is right, does the phrase hazard pay come to mind? - You believe that June? - Oh I put about as much stock in that as I do alien invasion. - (laughs) Got a lot of food must be good these days huh? - Funny you should ask. That fella on the TV with a bunch of storm chasers. - Yep. - They're even paying - See you at the big party tonight. Hi. - Hi. - Can I help you, oh alrighty. (cash register clicks) (car doors slam) - Thanks for bailing - Well you owe me 250 but it (drumming) - I just don't understand What about you, Marie, you Dr Arledge. - Well I did but now I don't know. I mean I don't know who to believe. - Okay, take care. - Yeah you too. - Excuse me. I watch all the time and was wondering, would you take a picture with me? - Sure. - Do you mind if my brother (camera clicks) Oh thanks so much, I've - Oh (laughs) you're welcome, take care. (loud bang) (gasps) - Some ice cold tea Ms Mazur? - Oh, thanks. - Not too late to join our parade, we'd love to have a TV - I don't know. - Momma says tornadoes never happen here. - Really? - They always happen down by Just saw a little twister Don't worry, they never come in to town. And they never get big, not here. - Sarah, we got to get you at the head of the parade (laughs) - If you're not gonna leave of one of these stores - You're a crazy man, making warning's for 200 miles away. - I think you should stop If you're right why don't we - What do you think Mr Reid? Do you believe him? - I'm waiting for some more proof myself. And we can't endorse until it's 100% accurate Dr Arledge. It wouldn't be responsible (crowd murmuring agreement) (piano music) - [Young Dee] I'm a bird. - What kind of bird honey? - Like the bluejays. - Yeah well you just keep a (drumming) (clapping) - Wait a minute, wait this is getting outta hand. Alright, now I know that we and ESP and anyone that can in the future. Life would be a heck of a lot easier huh? And you wanna help people but and I can't have you scaring I'm not gonna tell you and you're not gonna Now let's all enjoy the day (clapping) - Lady I don't much care but the rest of us... - Doc, doc... - What? - One of us has already - Karl, let's go get the storm chasers. - [Dr Arledge] The Mayor for disturbing the peace, - Doc, doc, we don't have much time. - Okay, okay If this thing happens, - Not much, it's gonna set north of town, where the river is. - That's where the inn is. Oh my god, that place is gonna be packed. Kirt Reid has his group staying there. - And knowing him he'll strap themselves to trees so Look, I'm gonna go see give them a heads up, I want you to double - [Mark] I'm on it. - It's gonna be great. - This is Kirt Reid, coming very live Two River Bend, whoop it up for their of this fair city. Now we do still have that National Weather Service a small supercell building but I tell ya the people rain on their parade. Now so far today we've had I lost by one slice, We've got music, dancing is the parade and I don't know looking forward to posing for a snapshot or two. Now I know that Dr Jake Arledge tornado to set down here upmost respect for Dr Arledge and his work but when I look at that supercell overhead all I see hitting this In my experience as a weather for so many years, that a few puddles down here on right on outta here. So stay tuned, if you wanna if you wanna stay at home, live from you, live from all day long, and we've got Miss Consolidated Farms coming up and I know you won't want to miss that. So in the meantime sit and maybe we'll have a join the parade. This is Kirt Reid, Channel Nine News. (keyboard clicking) (beeping) - I almost feel helpless - But you don't think this - It's not that I don't believe, warning for the whole area a really good chance it'll happen. I mean I really don't want to be here but these people made me. - Well they've just had but your dad's system can fix that. Is trying to talk to him I mean I know how you feel but yesterday I saw him he didn't even know. - Well that's dad, he's everyone else that he closest to him. - Well, see I remember how Like that time we all and you accidentally sucked and then you and your dad, you were crying. - (laughs) I can't - You kidding me, I had the - And what about now? - If we get out of this town in one piece will you promise me - There's your promise. - I couldn't raise anybody at that end but Reid's got to have a cellphone, you reckon you can find a number for me? - Ah he must have a website. - Arledge? You know, I got near about from folks wanting to know if it's true that there's a tornado going to hit here. - Well what did you tell them? - You see this file? I put some proof together to good as predicting tornadoes - Well maybe you ought to - I did, they told me you - Alright look Chief, since any time now, why don't we - Fine, we got a parade I don't need you getting in the way so you just get in your van - What I comprehend is an inn full of people. - What, June Ricket's place, - Oh good then we can get - No we can't. They want us to leave I don't want you in any more trouble. - Dee and I'll go in the You know where you gotta - I think I can manage. - Good, we won't trouble you any more, thanks for your hospitality. - Glad to see you're Miss Mazur, I do hope we'll see you again. - You better hope you'll (car doors slam) (marching band music) (engine starts) - Glad that nonsense is over, Go. (marching band music) - Here goes. (beeping) (marching band music) - Do you think he can do it? - Mr Scott's a pretty bright young man. Anyway he's got a map - Turn left. (beeping) (marching band music) (police siren) (tires screeching) (suspenseful music) - Main to Wilcox, left, (brakes and tires squeal) (police siren) - You're not gonna have (tires screeching) (police siren) - He's just barely gonna it's now. - [Radio Host] We interrupt an urgent weather bulletin. Doppler radar shows a massive tornado just north of Two River Bend. I repeat we are reporting a major tornado just north of Two River Bend. - Kirt Reid coming to you where we're celebrating one Now the temperatures so my storm chasers have jackets, along with myself, The only thing you need your appetite and maybe a credit card. Now we're just a few minutes of the parade and I tell ya folks, it's going to be a humdinger. I've seen a lot of the and glimpsed a few of the this side of the Rockies. But it's all going to with the beginning of the parade. Now after the parade we're some square dancing and as much as I really don't It's just so good I can't Tonight we're gonna have the by Hank's Roundup, and is the pancake breakfast And at that point I plan to be in bed, sleeping off all this barbecue. Now the National Weather tornado watch in effect a few blasts of wind and dampen anyone's spirits here. It's going to be a Come on down, I'm Kirt (police siren) (dramatic music) - [Chief Miller] This is Chief Miller, pull over to the side of the road. You're under arrest, pull over. (dramatic music) - [Dee] What's wrong with tornado on the edge of town - [Steve] They must - They're gonna find out quite quick. - What are we doing now? - All these buildings are tornado will take them - Well there must be some kind of shelter. I'm gonna go talk to the fire department. (police siren) (dramatic music) - The fire department does but we've got a problem. The mayor's been using the for years now, couldn't - Well how about the High School. - Yeah, we're setting up Just out of curiosity Miss Mazur, do you think this one's gonna hit? - Oh I wish I knew. (suspenseful music) - [Kirt] Come on storm and find a tornado. We're gonna get in the vans, and we're gonna find a tornado. - You can't leave, you can't leave, the tornadoes heading right here. - I know, we're heading - I mean any second, you cannot... - Get down on the ground, get - Open your eyes, we need to get in to - Chief Miller? - I told you to get down. - We have to take shelter now. - [Man] Look, look. (thunder) (wind whistling) - Is there a shelter in this place? - I'll have to get the key. - There's no time. - You put that axe down or - We need to get in that cellar. If you'd rather shoot - Mr Reid. - I'll do it. (banging) - Go, go come on. - Alright, go. - [Woman] Go, go, come on. - [Mark] Go, go, go. - [Man] Where do we go? - [Mark] Quickly. (confused chatter) - [June] There. - [Mark] Keep moving back. - [June] Everyone. - [Mark] Brace yourself. Touchdown. Hang on to something. (wind howling) - Get under the table. - [Kirt] You'll be alright. Here we go, here we go. (wind howling) (banging and crashing) (wind rattling and howling) (yelling and screaming) (banging and crashing) (suspenseful music) (nervous chatter) - [Kirt] Everybody, is everybody alright? - [Woman] What do we do now, I don't know. - [Mark] It's over. - [Woman] I was so scared (cries) (suspenseful music) - [Kirt] Careful. Where's, where's my van? - Forget about your van Kirt, (excited chatter) (marching band music) (bells jingling) - Hello, Mark? Mark is that you? Hello? - [Steve] Hey Dee, check it out. Woo hoo. - Get down. Dad, I saw it. The F5 I saw it, it's coming - Yeah we'll talk about this later, I think I may have found us a shelter. - Looks like new, maybe - It's gonna have to (engine) (wind howling) (thunder) (marching band music) - Step back. - Isn't that breaking and entering? (glass breaking) - What do you think? - I think it's underground Ready to start. - Marie, Marie, we need your help. I just saw the tornado and - Are you sure? - Absolutely positive. Now we think the storage building is safe. Can you help us get these folks in there? - It's not gonna be easy. Ladies and gentleman come there's a tornado coming. Right in there, alright. (crowd chatter) Comeone, in there, it's safe. Right in there, right in that door. (suspenseful music) - Hold it, shut it down. A tornadoes already on the ground, it's on the edge of town, We need to take shelter right now. Now. - I'm real sorry but you could - I've never seen the sky look like this. - [Dr Arledge] Come on. - [Dee] Come on. (thunder crashing) - [Sheriff McAnders] There is no need to panic. The tornado is not headed this way. I repeat there is no... ugh (mumbles) The tornado is not heading, where are you going? (mumbles) (emergency siren wails) (car engine) There is no... - [Steve] It's getting I don't know how many more we can pack in. - Okay Steve, I think we've - It's time for us to - No. - What do you mean no? - I mean you should but I've gotta get - You wait just a - No it isn't. We know it's path right? I'm sorry Dad, I'm sorry I doubted you. Your system works and I'm at a safe vantage point. - No you are not. No I am not gonna put you at I can't do that Dee. - Dad it wasn't your fault. Mom made her own decision And you've gotta stay here I'm sorry. Daddy I love you and I am so - I'm very proud of my little girl. Love you. (siren wailing in distance) - Still okay for some hazard pay. - Wouldn't miss it partner. (tires screeching) (wind howling) - Is that the mayor? - Unbelievable, did you see that? - Get out of here. (crashing) (brakes screeching) What are you doing? Don't back up Steve, keep going. Keep going, keep going. - I'm going, I'm going. - Okay I think we've beat it. - As long as it doesn't and follow us. - It won't, I know it won't. (suspenseful music) (doors slam) You on? - Five, four, three, two... - This is Dee Mazur, coming of Two River Bend where an F5 tornado at work. Now this tornado has exactly predicted by Dr Jake Arledge, who's currently in the town taking shelter with the local residents. (siren wails in distance) (wind howling) (crashing and banging) - Excuse me, excuse me please, excuse me, coming through, excuse me, excuse me. - Hey, what are you doing? - I'm getting out of here, (scream) (murmuring and scared chatter) (wind howling and gusting) (screaming) (dramatic music) - Did we actually make it through that? - Yes ma'am it would appear - Ohh. (piano music) - Sir, keep all these Check, see if anybody's injured okay. - Alright. - Alright, you okay hun? - Uh huh. - Okay. (coughing) - Well I see you kept a - Thanks for trusting me. Let's go find Mark. - Yeah. - This is Dee Mazur reporting live from just outside of Two River bend, in the aftermath of the in the last hundred years. There are estimates of and only one building remains standing in downtown Two River built of steel reinforced concrete. In fact this building served Although there were there were a few casualties, including town mayor Dotty McAnders. - Folks listen up, this is Mayor McAnders and we had a little duster as you can see, oh my lord, Alright the parade will be starting, it's just gonna be a minute or two late. I want y'all in your starting positions. Move it pal, what are you doing here, what is going on? I'm telling you, I'm and y'all gotta vote for I'm coming up for re-election. - Apparently Mayor McAnders for a few terrifying moments, when she was pinned down beneath it. Although local firefighters for helping to escort the authorities are singling out one other man who's the real hero of the Dr Jake Arledge, who's is now being credited as the in the history of severe tornado warning. This is Dee Mazur, reporting of Two River Bend. (piano music) - It's great, full of surprise material. - (laughs) Oh come on - I mean it Dee, and you're Hell, your story beat Kirt And being number one means you - Well I hope that over the stories I get to follow. - Dee, call for you on line two. It's a producer from that new TV show, Network Prime Time News. - Tell him I'll call him back later. - Alright. - Now I'm serious Ted, I want more control over story content. - Didn't I already say that? Yes alright, yes. - Yes, yes, yes, give her If you need someone to you can count on me. - Hey Kirt, you know I never it sure helps to have - You really showed you had guts out there and I admire that quality in a competitor. So I thought I'd stop and personally thank you You're one brave reporter. - I only did what I thought was right. - And with that outta the way, I'm here to tell you that to work even harder to get And I'm gonna be chasing - Okay. - You'll see it's very lonely at the top. Seeya on the news. - You bet. - Take more than a tornado - Well you know something life - Yeah, maybe. - Hey, is this a bad time? - Hey (laughs) hi, no, - Of course I did, yeah you were great. Your dad's not gonna have any time soon. - And what about you? - Well I have to finish my I have a standing job - No I meant before that. - Oh you mean right now? - Yeah, the Arledge's owe you big time. Come on, lunch is on me. - Here at Channel Nine the weather as it happens. Whether it's windy, rainy, you've come to know and trust weather casts in the region. Now you've heard me report you come experience the up close and in person. Join my storm chasers tour the fury and terror of - Kirt was a lot of fun, you know really you could the food was that good, when you had good food to eat. - And I just thought seeing the little ones, the it was a very exciting trip. What did you think hun? - Oh definitely, definitely. You know I know there were some the drinks were plentiful, food was good, hey what more can you ask for? - Well then it was a great - Definitely. - It's safe, friendly and fun. You'll tour the countryside with an assortment of beverages, at night you'll stay at along the interstate with The four day package includes jacket, cap, special and all the complementary to record those freaks of nature. Show it to your friends that you survived, along with Kirt Reid, a real live tornado. - It was really cool aboard the - And also, seeing a tornado was more amazing than for the first time. And also, just, we saw a barn, road, being blown away And a lot of the games were and a lot of the food was great too, better than my mom's home cooking. - Well I don't know about - Yeah. - I've reserved the last seat for you, so come on down and let's (gentle music)