Sparky checking in. We're about to get destructive, And boys, I brought Five vehicles, undrivable, not street legal. So these are totaled cars? Totaled cars. Yeah. Through and through, Break on three. One, two, three, break. Oh, let's do this! [SCREAMS] I love it. Not good at building stuff? But I might not be good Come on. Bullseye! Bulls. [LAUGHS] I keep going short. Oh, it was such a good one. Come on, what's happening? Wow, I'm not built for this. Cory's on attempt number 10 of Argh! (SCREAMING) Yes! I don't know why, but I feel [SCREAMS] OK, team. You know who you are. It's time. I tapped out. I'm tired. [GROANING] Push! Ha, ha, that's incredible. Huh, kind of feel That's my team! Meanwhile, I'm over of my leg for a nice right there in the My son's name is Easton. Let's have a go, huh. I'm out of breath. Hey! Apparently, I'm the Let's see if we can It's not going to work. Not going to what? [CAR HORN] Let's go. I just lit my car on fire. Watch out boys. Oh gosh, this smells horrible. Oh, working tail light, I'm tired. Oh, I got one more tire to pop. I've got to go do that. Yeah! Hey, I need that You can get it. It's working. It's working. Ha! I wrote, &quot;Hi, Sparky. Love you. Smiley face.&quot; All right, it's Three, two, one, convertible. The destruction's over. [MUSIC PLAYING] Judgment time, It feels good boys. Let's go, baby. In fifth place, think And it's Cory. Honestly, I'm shocked. I even quit halfway through. Hey, see y'all Fourth place. It was fun, boys. Don't sell yourself In fourth place, Garrett. Yeah. Hey, I'm a fan of the minivan. You definitely called In third place, Cody Jones. Oh. [APPLAUSE] Yeah! I love the convertible look. The convertible's great. I love the convertible. Yeah, I'm a guy who You know, let my hair blow in Comment below. We need a new judge. I'm out of here. I don't to hear it, Sparks. Boys, I thought y'all did really Y'all put it to use, and y'all But of course, there There can only be one. The TT, PT Cruiser, baby. Thank you, Sparks. Well done. Well done. I wanted it bad. The interior set you apart. Thank you. It was really good. I appreciate it. I didn't want to bring but it is opposite episode. So you know what I mean? Are you trying to tell me? Are you reading [LAUGHS] Back to the desk. Welcome to Not Cool Cool, trying to get a not cool. All right, Gar, Oh. Good save. Because Cory needs to do it. Let's go. Ladies and gentlemen, The only thing that you do It turns it on, and then Press the button to itself turns itself back off. I will say, I will that it's a little fun. There is no actual It is pointless. Therefore, an obvious You're saying that open because it closes itself? You can't use it as a box. I mean, you could if If you can put something in Good luck. That box is fast. All right, Ty, do your worst. Green. Ahhhh! I greened it. Is it green? It's a good box. It's a cool item. It's a fun box. Yeah. Great item, Cor. Well done. What a start. I will follow that with the a pointless puzzle. It is a see-through puzzle. You literally drop the You build a puzzle, you really don't see anything Good luck. Dude. Dude, this is the dumbest That's one of the dumbest [BUZZ] I mean, that. You kill an hour. You'd kill the rest of your life That is so cool. [DING] The whole point is you're so excited to see and there's no picture. It's just nothing. I agree. The challenge is there, but then [BUZZ] I think you could use This is successfully I lied. I'm a huge puzzle guy. [DING] That's a Saturday I'm going to go ahead and go. Let me just go back You know, I'm not a huge If you never want to talk to That is disgusting. Eww. You wear this-- you wear Eww. Eww. Eww. No one's going to bother you. They're actually going Look at the belly button. That's disgusting. It's not cool. [BUZZ] Can we cut the strings They're kind of distracting There you go. That's better. And by better, I mean worse. (LAUGHING) Almost for that Because of that change [BUZZ] I have two firm opinions. Number one, please Number two, I hate it very Your attempt to keep going to keep the And the guys who going to be attracted to you. Be like, dude, love And it's like, now you're with a guy who loves I didn't think that You are going to and I did not think about that. No offense to the weirdos. If you own that, We just-- we probably Hey, look at me right now. Zoom in. If you own this, you need to put it in a dumpster, Unless it's a joke. No, even if it's a joke, right now like I'm This thing's a joke. [BUZZ] Not cool again. I think it's a not cool. [BUZZ] Overall, I I think, based on my logic, because you're No way. A super not cool for that? I'm going to go ahead and Good luck following that. You guys know what in a normal episode in the is stop and make a huge, But good thing it's Guys, the Dude Perfect 2022 are on sale now. Let's go! 24 cities, brand new show, Not Cool items yet. I've heard a rumor that Get No, say it ain't so. Click the link in or click right here to It's going to be fun. See you guys in the summer. That's Happy named after one of come up with. Back to Cool Not-- No. It hurts my brain. Back to Not Cool, Cool. Ty, I actually need to borrow to display my item. Would you mind taking and handing it to me? Wow, you really do Gentlemen, I would like to Oh my gosh. Oh. Are you having a Honestly, here. Hey, think about this. [DING] You're right, it's actually-- It's one of the greatest For a croc owner. I don't even have to change Do you have another I do, actually. No way. Do you want to put it on? Yes. No, it would just get It's a red [BUZZ] I own crocs. I would never attach those to [BUZZ] There's no way that Because you put and I guarantee the Put it on your foot, Ty. That's magical Oh, Oh you got to go You go socks and crocs? Crocs, socks and spurs, baby. Yeah! Ha! [HORSE NEIGHING] Ha! [HORSE NEIGHING] Ha! I genuinely think that is cool. I agree. Ty's Instagram algorithm feed in this kind of a product. You need spurs for your crocs? Ty's like, yeah. Absolutely. Again, I'm not be happy or sad, but good job. You know what's cool is sports. You know what a cool sport is? Basketball. Yeah. Golf. Yeah, golf I would say is cool. Baseball. You know what's not cool is when that's cool like a into a lackluster, bad example. I would like to I don't even have a name for it. That's how not cool it is. I guess I'll just see if hit the ball. [DING] (SCREAMING) A hole in one! You got a hole in one. [DING] [DING] [DING] Hey, Ty, swing it A man will admit [DING] [DING] [DING] Honestly, I'm just glad What's next, Ty? Coming up next is Not Top 10. And by the way, What? Gentlemen. Oh. Welcome. You know what? I'm just going to He's not the guy. [LAUGHTER] As we all know, Tyler had and he blew it. There were 43,000 comments Welcome to the school, brother. Gentlemen, today, we are in the history of animals. God's worst work. [LAUGHTER] I would like to present I don't even know Honestly, the too cute to put anywhere I'm personally interested Is it not 10? You're supposed to be animals in the world. So all these should be bad. It shouldn't be As one of the cutest has one of the worst The Bible says that Adam and I'm going to ask him This is why the capybara Moving right along to Oh, wow. Humans are number nine. Yikes. We should all be When's the last time you of a mess in the world? If you're wondering to yourself we're all part of the What other animal's generated $2 No need to linger Let's move right along to The King vulture to me, reminded There's just too much going on. [VIDEO PLAYBACK] TYLER: I got it. I'm finished. [END VIDEO PLAYBACK] This should not all The guy's bald, just like me. I will say, a bald bird is It's not the last one Moving on to number As the deadliest snakes in the I'm not here for it. [VIDEO PLAYBACK] [YELLING] [END VIDEO PLAYBACK] I have a question. Sure. Can you-- I mean, are such an integral part Tons. Can you name two of the three The top one is a mountain lion. You're joking. He's being a troll. I actually don't know Are you kidding me? Number six, Chad, Just go fast, Colby. Just get through it. Garrett, we've got It's the marabou stork. In my opinion, this out there who you just and you need to shave your head. This little guy's just got a And he needs to go. You just put the unofficial Do you know that can swallow 2.2 pounds of Can he really? Yes, that's why it's Doesn't matter. He deserves to be on the worst number six. No way. Number five, the fainting goat. No. If you're not familiar, if to one of these fainting And then they fall over. It's unbelievable. It's one of the coolest Unbelievable. Number four-- we are moving on are made of-- the Japanese Spider crab. One of the oldest of the world, that's cool. I mean, yeah, just Do you know how old they live? Do you know how old I dare you to show this that he sleeps 100 years old. It's unbelievable. Those things live He's probably 60 right now. It's unbelievable. I'm afraid to talk feel like an uncontrollable And I've never really been the rage monster in real life. But I think we're at this point. And if I keep talking, Number 3 is the the most humans in the history I 100% agree with that. Great pick. OK, OK, Yes. Finally. Some could argue he'd be higher. What would happen if Would the whole food I haven't done a but I would imagine Some may argue with While this animal has not as the mosquito, the I would argue kills It's not number one, but hey. I'm here for it. You know, I don't mind cats. No they're the worst GARRETT: Oh OK. OK. OK. The top three so Let's bring it home with a bang. I agree. Two and three I'm on board with. We will give you to take something from one of your horrible answers. Yeah. In hindsight, I would like to creature with the black and That's a good choice. See, to me, that was showed that he has no backbone. That was a test. This is your top 10. You need to own your top 10. You need to be able to this is my top 10. I'm sticking with my gun. And you just folded like a weak Cue the clips of Ty doing [VIDEO PLAYBACK] TYLER: This is my show. CODY: I like that. TYLER: Hey, it's a group effort. GARRETT: What a rule. [END VIDEO PLAYBACK] I say we bang home Yeah, the chigger. Wow, your top three was I'm telling you, if you have you are feeling me right now. We are vibing strong. Very personal story I have That was a long Those chigger bites, Say it with me, us three. They must go. They must go. The future can only be here. I'll see you guys soon. I'm sure I'll be back. Comment below. Which of the three of us I'm going to do us all a favor. We will head not to but Wheel Fortunate. You guys can use Cobes, great job. Opposite edition. Can I address something? Take it how you will. What? I thought this was Wheel Unfortunate? Same logo? I can't stand this show. Oh, look at it. Ha, ha, ha, it's the laziest You want to be on wheel. By the way, Ned's not hosting. Hi, hey, Cory, congrats. It's you. Then it'll be you. You want to spin the wheel, and Coby is not fortunate. I'm alive, I'm alive. The next person who Cody it's not fortunate. Let's go. Another one. The next person who I got to say, if you get this is a rigged show. Yes, yes. Just pick somebody. Hey. Hey. I don't care about this show. I honestly don't care who-- So do you. The person is in my hand. Comment below. Ladies and gentlemen. Come on, Cory. Standing at 5 foot 11. [YELLING] It hurts to take that from Cory. Are you kidding me? And in honor of opposite day, Jim Schwartz is here to [APPLAUSE] I am your host, Jim Schwartz. My hair is long, and [LAUGHTER] And today, than Garrett the purple hoser. [CHEERING] Come on down. I have never been more excited. Good to see you today, Garrett. Is this show always like this? It seems very fun. [LAUGHTER] No this show is not like this. If it was like to spin this wheel And I somehow feel like I have of my life. [LAUGHTER] Before we spin, we must We have every product made That's what I want. I would love a Shiba Inu coin. I will tell you-- Well, I have 40 million of them. I'll give you one. Oh, we have gold bars, I don't recognize. Yeah that's horrible. [LAUGHTER] New cameras for the editors. That's very, very, very selfish. [LAUGHTER] Oh, year's supply [GASPS] And that one is not interesting [LAUGHTER] All right, Mr. Garrett, because Yeah, I'm doing it. Spin that wheel. [CHEERING] Come on, baby. Oh, shiba inu, [INAUDIBLE]. Apple products or Super Bowl. Oh! Oh, I can not believe it. We have a first Charizard Are we I did with my entire childhood? Is open poke packs to God above for a card of a [LAUGHTER] Because if we are, I need Hey, Jimbo. It's Jim. Sorry. Short. This is-- hey! This is turning into because I don't want to I am so fun. Let's go get my card, OK? And then, I'm going to sell it That's my goal. [APPLAUSE] All right, I'm out of here. [CHEERING] We are here at the card shop. It is time for Garrett Charizard. Let's do it, baby. This is insane. I might retire. You might. You might after this. He's wearing the croc spurs. What a day. You have to. What a day. You have to. I believe this is the That would be me. Josh? Josh. Nice to meet you. I'm sorry, Gar, Garrett. Is that what we Oh, well, that's good But that's pretty much for Otherwise, you're looking would be first edition, And the big one is going to Oh, ha, ha. Wow. If you were to put what would you put that at? Well, price is all determined and everything like that. 3.0 right here. You know, anywhere is it's pretty high for a three. But this is better. Oh gosh. He's about two just one up you. So next, you would have-- Oh, a Venusaur. The Venusaur and the Blastoise. Oh, Blastoise. This is all a first edition And all together as the say that the value is? I know that I'm kind of asking Your regular Charizard it Not to take anything We need to collect them. We've got to catch them all. That's the game. I'm back in. I'm back in the game. Where can I buy I mean, give me a pack. I need a booster pack. Yeah, all right, Back to the desk. No, I'm not done yet. I'm not-- I haven't Gar, I always wanted a first Oh, you're so lucky. Oh, it's incredible. Yeah, as the saying goes, good I don't think that's Comment below, and want to see more card openings. Because I could certainly I might go right back I'm actually waiting That will do it for Let's hit them with the intro. Oh, nice. No, we don't have to. I'm going to throw my hat first. OK, and then now we're Don't miss out on any See ya noggin, pound it. Noggin pound it.