Today I'm playing a competitive Mario Kart It's that time! Let's go, baby! Hey, nice to be beat people up, eh? Yeah, maybe. I don't know. goes. I'm gonna do a little bit of bagging. up for fun. It's gonna be light work. Without I'm getting red-shelled. [laughs] It's over! Okay, oh, I messed up the gap jump. That was the best know, it's fine. It's fine. It's Mushroom Gorge. There's nothing I can do about that. Uh, I just some way better players than I'm used to, and for the challenge. I'm just here to get carried right now. I mean, hey, we're gonna try, but I the way I see it personally. I think I'm gonna do but I see you in last as well. It's okay. I have a I got triple greens! I can't take it... Nooo, players are too good! [laughs] I got flattened! I think we got four points in our first I got one. So, we actually got Koopa Cape. why aren't we going to a bagging track like Cheese is that it doesn't really matter what spot same playing field in terms of how you can start with a lot of coins, and B, you have a which is really, really good. I'm saying that, They got me in, like, ninth. No, I'm in ninth. You triple reds, dude! Oh, I saw you get destroyed I'm in seventh with two mushrooms. I'm gonna I need to tell you what's going on with Need you to hear my life story this Oh, I see you. Okay, yeah, we're making our way up That was so cute. Yeah, hey, short JPG together horn. Okay, he might go crazy. I can't slow down. mini-turbo. I'm too scared. This guy still has This is actually terrifying. We're just in we can do about this. Okay, one guy with rip. The guy with the horn... Oh, he's backing the rough spot this race. I'm in fifth with triple Can't do anything. There's triple reds behind I had double reds. I didn't hit them. That sucks. That red shell passed, like, three people. What We got eight-nine. That's an improvement from now got nine points. Next race, we're gonna get yeah, yeah, I'm trusting. Hey, Teddy Buggy Rollers here. [laughs] The City Tripper's the way to go. What can I say? Dude, me too. I feel like I didn't even do like... Oh my God, those items. Random green person made an impossible maneuver I've gotten hit at least seven times so far is what Mario Kart looks like sometimes, you No! That warning didn't show up! [laughs] This is tough. This is such a good room, man. Is there, like... Do we have custom items on multiple people pulling triple bananas? That's most chaotic session I've ever played. This is And I have to take the shortcuts Okay, cool, we're in eighth. Dude, the shy guy... to dial in. Me too, man. Me too. It's so tilting, surrounded entirely by mushrooms. I wouldn't Please don't. Oh geez, the bullet takes I'm gonna try and save it for the cut. Knowing just gonna hit me or shock it out of me before I could definitely happen too. The red shell's Okay, the green shell's behind me. that's good. The people in this room are, Okay, I'm in fourth now. That shock really helped gonna hold this until I might dodge another shock right in front of me. I'm not dealing with I'm in second. Okay, I'm in fifth. I'm in fifth you. Hey, we're hanging in there. I think there's first slot. No, triple bananas right next to me. mushroom off the cut, yeah. And then I went out I got second at the very least. Man, I was gonna so I got eighth. You know what, I'm that's fine. 17 points is really, really good. I so many items. Every competitive event has to have when I joined lounge, I read the rules, and it event doesn't count. Everyone loses MMR. Yup. just-- I don't want to touch anybody else's items please, the red shell came for me. Okay, I guess I think I'm very close to first. Oh no, I'm still like fourth, I think. I'm in 10th Okay, I'm going wide. This person's... Okay, we're gone. If I can get to 10 coins got magical. I feel like I haven't been at 10 Okay, I think I'm in a decent spot. I got Oh no, it's not. It's not. Blue shell No, I got hit on the line. Why did that This is more funny than it is like anything luck... It has to be bad luck, right? There's straight. There's no way. Positive vibes. It ends I guess I'll front-run if, like, everyone worst. I just wouldn't be in... I guess if a choice. I'll just run. Whatever, I was in the off-road for like one second. I kind of Come on, buddy went out of his way to star I'm so far in first place, guys, so anyone and like, why don't you just front run instead? then watch what happens at the end of the video yourself wrong? That'd be pretty cool, wouldn't I'm just kidding. [laughs] If there's no how far back everyone else is, there's gotta and plus, okay, so the shortcut's right here. shock. I think I barely saw shock. Okay, well, Why so many red shells? That's been like another red shot like I, yeah. Honestly, I It's okay. It's okay. I might get a top position get second. Maybe third? Okay, I got second place. clutch. I was so wrong. Bagging is unviable. You're gonna run this one too? Uh, I'll slightly on the first lap just to try and get maybe people are gonna be bagging harder Oh, everyone's bagging. Yeah, Yeah, this is the lounge experience. You not taking this shortcut. I'm, I'll do pull blue again. [laughs] Don't worry, I'm not Okay, this person did a great green snipe on me. that's what's going on. [laughs] I don't see any signs of shock right now. [Music] All right. Wow. I got triple mushroom star I gotta get away. Everybody, okay, bullet I have a star after bill. I have a golden right a shock at this point. Uh, I don't see one, but use a star now just in case. How many times Doesn't even make sense to get I'm in fourth. I have triple greens. I'm holding Nice. [Music] Okay, everyone's gonna pass me right hope that connects. He got red. Okay, I got hit too much. Hey, I'm almost not last place. It's much lower level often than this, and that's when they get triple reds, like, oh, yeah, let's toss shells more than today. This is always a red shell first place. Nice, nice. With the red shell too. I'd like some more coins, though. I think you got some more. Yeah. I just pulled a up there. I'm just gonna toss these. Yep, I hit I actually tried to get out of the way. third though. But I'm in more in the pulling triple bananas in eighth. Okay, we're good. Yeah, this is like, this is It's how it does-- how I feel today. Yeah, no getting triple bananas all the time today. try not to hit you. All right, cool. All right. behind you. There's nanas in front of us, they Okay, you're good. I'm on the far right. They Are you kidding me? I am not that good at this picked, but, um, like, how good can you really what's the skill ceiling on this track? I I'm at first, but I have nothing. I went being bumped is so real in lounge. That everyone's all over the place. [Music] I didn't realize you were there. My bad. Oh, it's and then they got stuck, and I can't This is ridiculous. This person hits me with eyeballs, and then I can't pass them because was triple greens in front of me again. I want Big as, big of a lead as possible. I but I wasn't gonna use it yet. Honestly, I'm just right now. I was not thinking about the shock. for words right now. What was I'm in twelfth but I have a star. Wait, what? What? I got fourth. Yo, congrats, man. was looking like it was going to be a lot worse. to beat AD Elias here. We're gonna chain three top sick. I got trailed off the track. Very good start me in 10th. Thank you so much for proving my I red the guy who redded you. Nice. Thank you, I've ever played. It's just never been hit this couldn't do it. What are you talking about? No, okay. He had mushrooms. I couldn't get him. This I almost got-- okay, if I get Like, how did that even? Can someone explain 10 coins, star and a mushroom, and someone You boys put on 175 cc. Yeah, that was actually I have a blue shell. I'll just throw it. I've gotten hit, like, six times in the last 30 shelled, I could get first from 10th right now. terrible here. I can't get hit if I'm in a star. so nice eight. Oh, oh my God, this is actually so everyone, like, a mushroom and, and we, we can fun time time trialing this track together. The City Sprint is one of my better tracks. That's Random green shell almost hit me not, not on this particular point on the Someone just did the zoomy thing where they go to be able to go in this game. No kidding, dude. uh, and a red shell. Oh, okay. Of course, there's Wait, I'm in first. I feel like I can't even keeps happening. It's like, it's just a normal Thanks. I have a blue shell. All right, I'd prefer if you just held it because, I'll just hold it. Yeah, I feel like there's gonna 12th place, here I come. [laughs] I can use it if I mean, I'm not getting anything besides 12 I was so far away from everyone. there even a green shell there? Like, I Can someone crunch the numbers and tell me how We're on last race. Want to go 3DS Rainbow? We Cheese Land. [laughs] Well, I'm in first. [Music] though, instead of a coin. I take that all buddy. I think it's 40% chance of not a coin. 40% chances on a coin. Yeah, it definitely does I'm going around. I'm gonna get... Find a way me in that shortcut, and I'm gonna fall off. I Chaos everywhere around me, except for hitting me. but it's fine. I gotta pick up my own mushroom. Oh my God, I hope I get shock. No. Have I got in the back the whole time, and it's just not make the game start giving her bud with items? Nope, after the line. I got second. Okay, someone fell off on the shortcut.