Nine million years ago, on the trail of Megalodon I haven't told you yet, but my name profession and occasional time traveler. will no doubt remember the video of the trail of the last Tyrannosaurs. me the opportunity to time travel had from which to safely monitor the comings and food to last at least a week and top-notch cameras, and. a couple of very useful drones. up on one of the many islets from which today's an epoch that Timing Inc. assures And if the first time I had risked my life seen a Tyrannosaurus up close, now I am here to ever inhabited Miocene waters: the Megalodon. Of extinct animals that tickle our fancy, the dinosaur rulers of the Mesozoic, few Due to an avalanche of B-movies depicting them sharks have become for the general public the the effect of knowing that three million years swallow whales as if they were meat rolls... the megalodon has in fact become a version under steroids of the But how much truth is there Let's find out - as I scramble to get settled animal was and, more importantly, The megalodon lived between the Miocene and years ago. Its name means &quot;big tooth,&quot; because it of its oversized teeth and a few vertebrae As with other sharks, the megalodon's skeleton a tissue that very rarely manages to The vertebrae and especially its huge we know of and have been able to find in all hypothetical living reconstructions remains and comparisons with other Because of the limited information we, therefore, do not know for sure what it Actually, there is even a strong debate in the to give it and in which shark family to place it. to those of the white shark, it was immediately but recent studies tend to place the megalodon Nevertheless, the megalodon is still the white shark (which was already present at was almost certainly very different. shorter snout and flatter jaw, and because longer pectoral and caudal fins, which Overall, today we imagine it to be far more such as the whale shark or basking shark. it would be quite a coup for paleontology one of these creatures and test all the But finding a Megalodon is not as easy as meeting water, while I sit on the beach of this tiny trust myself to go looking for it in its element. the shoreline, having seen too many documentaries seals sunbathing blissfully on the beach... one? Unfortunately very little, but I am very drones that I have brought with me will be effectiveness of a paste that according to attract all the sharks around here. Paste you - I am beginning to shoot with a jet pump Okay, but now you may be wondering As I've already told you... All are based on the size of the teeth, which to 18 centimeters (the maximum size for a white Until a few years ago abnormal measurements had length; however, these dimensions have recently calculations in fact believe-more likely-that the is still about three times the length of a large A predator of this magnitude undoubtedly had few as evidenced by the marks of its teeth found other cetaceans. In fact, the fossils suggest small whales, and sperm whales, which they techniques as appropriate, somewhat And another question is and dominant-why would it have become extinct? megalodon disappeared from circulation million years ago. We do not know exactly right around that time the Earth faced a severe As fossil remains show, megalodons lived in preferred tropical belts and warm waters, The drastic drop in temperatures that only directly harmed sharks but also reduced causing a series of chain reactions that began to adapt to colder waters where the of large predators such as killer whales and It was thus most likely a mix of climatic and competition with large cetaceans that Well -- while I was telling you these things mixture into the sea here up ahead. And both aerial and submarine drones. my surroundings, but I fear must disappoint from any Caribbean beach of your time. to harbor any wildlife worth mentioning. I impressive number of snakes, and nothing more. on the North American continent, rhinos saber-toothed tigers. And that somewhere in East trying to survive to start our own species. But there goes drone1! The sea and by flying over its surface the small silhouette of a megalodon-if there is one. afternoon to be able to see something. And then But could the megalodon still exist today? hiding in a small population somewhere in the just like the Megamouth sharks discovered 1939. There is one key difference, however: a huge predator that needed to eat more amount of food it certainly could not But wait a minute! Drone1 is showing away. Below the surface dart dozens of dark an ancestor of our dolphins, very Are they chasing or being chased? I bring the drone up in altitude to widen the edge of the frame--a black silhouette gliding Is it a megalodon? I wouldn't swear size would venture into such shallow water. the submergable one in the water. And in have entered the water up to half my body. On the monitor the crystal clear water allows me I attempt to bring the drone up to the spot behold...SBAM! The drone almost gets run It is indeed a megalodon-what else could it be? What I was then able to capture on The resemblance to our white sharks is striking, about this beast we are seeing in full hunting A pity it's getting dark... the But I still have six days to go.