Riken Forging Co., Ltd., Maebashi City, Gunma Prefecture, Japan. The company manufactures high-strength hot forging parts used in automobiles, construction machinery, and ships. Today, I will show you the process of making a crankshaft, a universal engine part. The crankshaft is one of the components of an engine and is the axis that converts the reciprocating motion of the piston into rotational force. So, let's take a look together. Mold Making Machining Standards Measurement Cutting Process Mold machining takes approximately one day. Mold after processing. Steel material cutting heat forging press The crankshaft is made with the power of a 6,000-ton press. Remove unnecessary parts. Cooling Process Shot Blasting Process Shot blasting is a processing technology that sprays small steel beads at high speeds on a metal surface. It creates various effects by creating fine irregularities on the surface. Non-destructive testing. Completion Nippon Bit Industry Co., Ltd. located in Kita Ward, Sakai City, Osaka Prefecture, Japan. This is a company that manufactures motorcycle parts in Osaka. We manufacture numerous parts, focusing on motorcycle mufflers and steps. Today I will show you the process of making a muffler. So, shall we check it out together? A motorcycle muffler consists of three parts: flange, exhaust pipe and silencer. A motorcycle muffler is part of the exhaust system that exhausts the engine's combustion gases and serves to reduce noise. Cutting of muffler parts on an NC lathe *For filming, processing is performed with the cutting oil paused Cutting titanium pipes Refining the cut surface Process of bending pipes Cutting pipes Fine modification of pipes Making pipe holes Surface processing of bypass pipes Prepare the surface so that there are no gaps. Welding work Temporarily welding all parts and then performing the main welding Polishing work The process of baking the pipe This is the process of giving it a pretty color Silencer production Punching pipe roll work Spot welding of the punching pipe Punching pipe assembly/welding Inspection of silencer end parts We carry out assembling the silencer end parts, welding the assembled parts, assembling the silencer, installing the silencer emblem, and testing the process of attaching the muffler to the motorcycle. WINGED WHEEL Co., Ltd. located in Kitagameicho, Yao City, Osaka Prefecture, Japan. Founded in 1924! It is the only company in Japan that manufactures halogen lamps, celebrating its 100th anniversary this year. Today I will show you the process by which halogen lamps are made. So, shall we check it out together? Raw material: Cutting tin plate material Press process: Making the floor Press process: Refining the shape Press process: Engraving A flat iron plate is transformed into this feeling. Kelly Phone Process: Making Support Parts Assembly Process Packaging Test Final Co., Ltd. is a Japanese company that designs and manufactures high-end headphones based on acoustic research . Today, we will show you the process of making high-end headphones worth over 4 million won. So, shall we check it out together? The headquarters of Final Co., Ltd. is located in Kawasaki City, Kanagawa Prefecture. The main material is an alloy of aluminum and magnesium. It is cut to the required amount for cutting processing. Further detailed cutting processing is performed through cutting machining. Process for making magnets Magnet raw materials There are no screws attached to the magnet raw materials. Magnets are made by applying high voltage to magnet raw materials. Press forming process of diaphragm Attach magnet to jig. Adhesive Attaching the punching metal to the diaphragm Fixing the diaphragm to the housing Checking whether the sound comes out well Process of installing headband parts Cleaning and packaging test Duo Co., Ltd. located in Kamikosugi, Yaizu City, Shizuoka Prefecture, Japan. This is a company that manufactures fishing lures. Today I will show you the process by which worms (soft lures) are made. So, shall we check it out together? The raw materials are baked using a microwave oven. It takes about 2 hours until they are completely cooled and hardened. The process of making the material (pellets) that is fed into the cutting molding machine . The forming process. The pellets are put into the molding machine and the worm lure is created. Cooling Wait until the molded product hardens. Inspect the worm lure by removing it. packaging test