You probably think you are in complete control are they guided by something else? Something you Here are 21 cognitive mind traps, fallacies, biases and other phenomenon Strange things that are hard You may go through your entire life or well carrying around these thinking errors and mental You can't turn them off or But being one of the few people that can knowing situations they are likely one of the first steps to becoming a This 2 part series is mainly inspired psychologist Daniel Kahneman and his Survivorship Bias During World War 2, Navy Researchers conducted a that had returned from missions, they concluded these areas with the most damage. At first this "We need to place more armor where However, a mathematician by the name of Abraham Wald was quick to point out an They were researching data only from the and the bombers that had been shot Wald proposed they change their armor the areas where the surviving planes areas that were causing fatal damage to the Survivorship bias is a logical error where the of only a subset of the population that has More simply, we tend to focus on those things that People may say things like "They made much time and age, ignoring that this is one of and that 99% of the buildings of that ugly but are now completely invisible to us. Here is another example. You move to a new town. You see many come to the conclusion that if all you could very well do the same. What is that failed in the years prior. When you are only causes you to underestimate the challenge Everywhere you look there are successful actors fraction above zero of becoming successful. so the burial ground of all the Society and Media only focuses on the winners. Try googling "Actors that never made it..... out of college" and you won't have For every rock star, there are thousands of people For every Startup business, there Everyone should chase their dreams, you into thinking the challenge is your overly optimistic beliefs that Are you only focusing on the person Self-Serving Bias You received an A on the test due to test because the teacher is For the CEO, all the great things year were a direct result of If the company has a bad year. The economy, interest rates and government According to the self-serving bias, our but our successes are the For most people...The natural reaction to a negative outcome is to find an To combat this, the first step is to simply become always seek accountability and feedback on Self Serving Bias is also closely linked to... Fundamental Attribution Error We judge others' behavior on their but we attribute our own If Simon is late to work, it's because job seriously. If you're late to work, Try to catch yourself in situations on their personality in a way that you would Hindsight Bias You have probably encountered &quot;I knew that was going to happen..." "I knew that stock was going to fall..." "I knew she was going to lose the election!..." They are always experts This is hindsight Bias, otherwise phenomenon. When we look at past events, Imagine you are a computer bias) that causes you to write over past you are unable to reconstruct We think our memories are clear, but in reality The hindsight bias is a memory actually said or believed before make your past opinions or beliefs more Here is an example. This is what you actually The results you observed The virus gets to work and now it has been distorted. And the memory This causes people to misremember and makes people overconfident in explaining The events leading up to World probably looked something like this, people put it all into a neat sequence of Hindsight bias is especially harmful CEO's and financial advisors, because soundness of their decision making but We blame good decision making But we praise bad decision It is easy for us to blame When we we oversimplify the past, when at the time "Don't worry Mel, the mistake seems obvious now, but it is just hindsight. You "I knew this exact thing was going to happen" "Are you sure? .... I remember you Availability Bias "Cape town is safe, I know a guy who lives "Smoking isn't so bad, My uncle has Humans are notoriously poor even when they are educated. We create a picture come to mind. This is illogical, of We use statements like these to try prove nothing at all. When we speak like Plane crashes on the news are easy to recall, Safe can lead us to an irrational fear of flying. easy to recall. Safe swims at the ocean can lead you to have an irrational We estimate the likelihood information most readily available in our memory. Here is all the information. And here us which could be something we saw recently, Here is an example Your chances of getting attacked by a shark And let's imagine this is your You see a news story about a shark attack You hear a story about a shark attack A friend of a cousin tells you his Someone in your family was The closer you are in proximity to the available The facts and reality have remained the same, but the information most available With availability bias we go through life We overestimate the chances of an terrorist attack and we underestimate the Availability cascade A local news story about a razor blade found in becoming worried, which leads to a news story to a national story, which leads to parents which eventually leads to homemade candy and cakes This is an availability cascade - which may start from media reports up to mainstream public panic and/or People begin to adopt the belief, not because Put more simply, an availability cascade is Whenever we encounter minor risks or completely over exaggerate A parent may know of this feeling waiting home. They know that there is a 99 percent But having even a small thought that your mind, sets off a self-sustaining chain about something disastrous having to panic and needing to immediately make When you are watching the news, is it an objective piece of journalism "This is just an availability being inflated by the media until it fills Sunk Cost Fallacy You go to the cinema with your friend, after awful. You turn to your friend and say "This "Yeah it is, but we spent a lot on This is the sunk cost fallacy. You've spent the money either Another Example... Maybe you have a but you keep forgiving and accepting her "I've invested so much time, energy and love If you catch yourself saying things like so much on this stock, I can't sell it are probably encountering the sunk cost fallacy. The sunk cost fallacy can especially plague To be more rational, look at the current status and don't put too much weight into the past The Framing Effect Which meat would you like to buy? 99 percent Fat Free or 1 percent fat Most people, when asked, go for Option How about now? 98 percent fat free or 1 percent fat? Most people STILL go for option A. This is the framing effect We often draw different conclusions from it's presented. Be on the lookout for how different and stories and how companies frame their offers. Here we have a small size Which would you choose? In this case a higher percentage are Now, let me introduce a third Studies show that when given these three options, a much higher percentage will choose the large The small and the large prices are exactly the and influences your decision making When the Economist magazine they were quite disappointed with the When they introduced a third decoy The offer was exactly the same, but the print The bills are overdue! It's not what you say, but how you say it. Would you like to pay by cash or credit card? If the sign showed a cash discount of missing out on the "discount" for the If the sign showed a credit card surcharge of On closer inspection though, There is a 90% chance you There is a 10% chance you Same outcome. Different frames. The words we use affect the emotions we have The Clustering Illusion Have you ever seen faces in the on the rock formations of Mars. The For the most part the clustering illusion is harmless, but it does have Investors who rely on technical analysis of kinds of patterns and predictions from and make risky investments, Take a moment to observe Is the sequence random or planned? Even though they are completely often come up with all sorts of laws or To overcome your sensitivity try to regain your skepticism. If you more likely to be pure chance or am I Exponential Growth If you fold a piece of paper in continue to do that 50 times. How If you guessed a few inches because the paper would be so thick. It Linear growth is intuitive to is incomprehensible to us. But why It wasn't needed before. Our ancestors Let's use this hypothetical country with The inflation rate of this country is 5%. Intuitively, if we are being honest, we "Only 5%" some people may If instead I told you, in 14 years, your you can understand that without much thought. And &quot;The greatest shortcoming of the human race is our inability to understand the &quot;The power of compounding is the most powerful To illustrate the power of exponential the first square of this chessboard, four grains on the third square, and on each subsequent square. How many grains of In the short term exponential but the growth that occurs at a faster truly amazing and can quickly become To complete the task you would need 18 number that we can't even begin to wrap our small amount of something can grow when it is If you want to approximate the time or you need a way to describe something 10% returns on investment = your money will 8% percent inflation = Your money is worth half A country has 5% population double the population in approximately 14 years. Of course these growth rates and the world is full of uncertainties more intuitive than just saying "The Be careful with exponential growth. Never because we don't have any. Where possible try to convert the growth rate into Barnum Effect For you, the viewer, you may find You have a great need for other At times you have serious doubts as to You pride yourself as an independent thinker. At times you are extroverted, affable, sociable, while at other times you are Was I close at giving an accurate Bertram Forer in 1948, conducted an the same text of generalized statements each participant that he had personally 86% found that the text was an accurate This is the Barnum Effect, when we easily generalized statements, even if they The next time you remark "Omg that is doing an online quiz on what type of spirit easily fooled by horoscopes, Palm reading