- I love that this is the You go, &quot;I can't hear 'cause they're very - An excited crew. Yes, it's nice to meet you. - Because we've been on a record together. You played on my record. - I played banjo on your record. - Yes! (audience cheering and applauding) - I'm still shocked that you said yes. - You know, this is my career no one absolutely knows about. - [Kelly] I know. - Is a kind of a banjo-playing musician and, you know, and when I it goes to number one on the banjo charts. And if I have, and on the pop charts, it goes to number 10,227. - That's what, you still No, but you make music in Nashville. You live in Nashville, right? That's what I was saying, you wanna- - Yes, I live in Nashville, and a record label called Compass Records, and yeah, it's an exciting place to be. It's the recording capital of the world. - Yeah, but you didn't start there. Are you originally in - Originally in Connecticut, That's where I discovered the banjo. So I'm a Southern California and recovering investment - I was gonna say that. Somebody said you, yeah, Where's that transition happen? - She was a pool player. - Yeah, yeah, I was like, how did that, how did you, you always but you were also a banker, and then you just decided - Right, well, I've but I didn't really see how you could make a career out of it. And my parents were both lawyers, and they really encouraged as an excellent avocation to talk about at cocktail That was their aspiration for me. - Aw! - So I went to, after doing I went to UCLA business school. And then when the investment I'm like, &quot;I'll sign up for that,&quot; so. - Yeah, okay. (audience laughs) - I'm like, I love that your I was like, &quot;Sure, that's fine.&quot; How did you get into the banjo? Like- - Well, I was a kid in And that's when the and they had a banjo, and the Kingston Trio. You may not know 'cause but, and they were just great musicians, singing folk songs, and I heard the banjo and I got, I was able to so I could focus on the banjo. - [Kelly] Honed in, yeah. - And then there was a friend at school who played the banjo, one of the founding members He was in my high school. So we got together, and some things and I - Yeah, Southern California seems like a very interesting place to Like, you know what I'm saying? - Well, there were folk would tour around, and you'd and I was able to see some of the great bluegrass groups like The Dillards. And we saw Earl Scruggs - Yeah. - [Kelly] Okay, awesome. How - [Steve] Oh, there we (audience cheering and applauding) - I'm gonna own, I don't if but I knew you as an like, went down this just, you know, I was just went, I don't know, I went down this YouTube like vortex and watched all these videos. Y'all are actually in one, and to fall in love with and then to see this whole musical side. It was a really cool connection for me because I love music so much, and that's why I ended up 'cause I was like, &quot;I love how - Thank you. - And my favorite like I don't know if it's one but anytime we bring it out on tour, it's like my favorite thing. It feels like everything's gonna be okay. It's that instrument is being played, it's It's like you're coming home. It's something good is - Something very American that voice, yeah. Yeah, it just is very calming, yeah. - I agree, I mean, to me, American instrument because It's a drum with a neck attached, which is like the European influence and then the African influence, to make this incredibly infectious sound. - 'Cause there's something about it to me too. - Definitely. - And there are Irish banjo players who play Irish-type music on but it's a banjo, yeah. - Which is interesting, as well as country music. Let's take a short break, y'all. Diego and our audience - Hey Kelly, Steve, and I'm also a banjo player, but unlike most, I don't play bluegrass. Instead I play traditional But lately I've been thinking So maybe I'll learn a few of your songs. (lively banjo music) More with Steve, Kelly, (lively banjo music continues) (audience cheering and applauding) - All right, we are back with (audience cheering and applauding) Their new single &quot;Wall wherever you get your music. Okay, we've given you banjos 'cause we're gonna move on to that. But look, I can't have you 'cause I'm obsessed with the show, so how is &quot;Only Murders How do you like shooting in New York? (audience cheering and applauding) - It's such a great in New York, where I live, and And I remember the first day the first shot was 25 - Oh my gosh! - I'm supposed to walk across the street. I think, &quot;This is great!&quot; - Yeah. - And I'm supposed to - That's a new thing. - Yeah. - It's such a fun cast, too. - It's a great cast, and it keeps getting- - So talented. I mean, we had a scene in our, you know, Episode 7 with Marty, me, Selena, and Meryl Streep and Melissa McCarthy, and they're fighting. - Molly Shannon, and we're just laughing, and it's just so much fun. - Oh my god, yeah, it's a great cast. Eva Longoria was just here. - And yes, she was hilarious. - Okay, well she had this to say. - And then of course Marty like, in the green room, yeah. - Oh, just on- - Just in the, off-set, yeah, just them ordering a sandwich and fighting about mustard is like. (audience laughs) - Oh, my god, I would just like a stalker. I do. I just do this. (audience applauding) you have to name one thing You have to name one thing. - Oh, well- - If you argue all the time. - He's like, I've said this before, I said, &quot;We don't have a friendship. We have a funship.&quot; A friendship, you call somebody up, and you say, &quot;Hey, you Can I do anything? Can I come over?&quot; On a funship, you say, Call me when you're up.&quot; (audience laughing) - (laughs) You're like, &quot;I - Yeah, yeah, &quot;I don't need you that way.&quot; (audience laughs) Okay, well, I wanna get back to bluegrass. You're holding these So you mentioned that your love of it, but what did the genre It's had, I think music in general can kind of morph and progress. What did the beginning, like, how you fell in - Well, to me, it sounded playing, you know, fast, (lively banjo music) You know, just super exciting sound. - Yes! about bluegrass music to me is that it's a relatively young genre. The big bang for bluegrass December 8th, 1945, when and Earl Scruggs got together, and that was when bluegrass was created. So the threads of the music but that was the moment So it was very much like post World War II. on the scene here. - Exactly. - So it's a relatively new instrument, genre. So you've made some music like Sir Paul McCartney. How did that go down? - Well, I'm very honored. I mean, I've written I think So we better get started. Here we go. (audience laughs) No, and I was doing (laughs). (audience laughs) - No time like the present. - I was writing some songs, a great banjo player, said, &quot;You know who I hear singing And I said, &quot;Well, so?&quot; And he said, &quot;You could probably reach out to Paul McCartney.&quot; So it took like two months. And I figured out how to write him. You know, you gotta go to get to Paul, as you By the way, he was the nicest guy I ever met in the world. And so I finally got him on the phone, and I said, &quot;Paul, you and my producer and I think you would be the guy to sing it.&quot; And he said, &quot;Well, And I said, &quot;Well, I'm a terrible singer.&quot; And I said, &quot;Look, let me just, I'll do a little quick with the banjo, and I'll send it to you, and then you can call me back.&quot; So weeks go by, and finally- - Wait, weeks after you send it? - [Steve] Yeah, well, - Oh, I'd be sweating. - Yeah, yeah, just sitting, and he said, &quot;I listened to the tape.&quot; And he said, &quot;And you know, when you said you were a terrible singer, (audience laughing) Anyway, he ended up recording the song, and I've got a song I wrote - That is so cool! So wait, tell us about your new single. So called &quot;Wall Guitar.&quot; - Oh, go ahead, you - Well, Steve texted me on the banjo that he was playing. And he said, &quot;I don't know, do you think something might be here?&quot; And I listened to it, and So I wrote a B section and then we kind of had And then Steve kept saying, &quot;I could really imagine And I was like, &quot;Go.&quot; And so that's really how, - And we should explain what here's a little of it now. (lively banjo music) - This is what you sent? (bright banjo music) Don't you feel like (audience laughs) - And the rest, and so- - It's beautiful! It's beautiful! - And so I wrote some lyrics to it, and I'll explain what a, 'cause it may not be obvious A wall guitar is like, It's just, you know, if you go into a bar, sometimes there'll be an with rotten strings But sometimes people And in someone's house, they'll sometimes have a wall guitar. So this is about someone going into a bar with a broken heart and and start to play it. - Yeah, there is a line in it, and I meant to put it in and I forgot to tell you to do and maybe you'll help me But it's the part where it's right before, I think, but it's like, you know now what it is to have a broken heart, Now that they're gone, you actually know what this song means. Like, now I know how this song feels now that you're gone. &quot;I sing the sad songs real good now.&quot; - &quot;I sing the sad songs real good now since you've been gone.&quot; And I'm like, &quot;Oh, since she's been,&quot; I was like, this is, that's don't you feel you're and you're like, &quot;You could in the world, but I don't believe you.&quot; - That's Marty! (audience laughing and applauding) - That was amazing. - You don't know. - You are so funny. from saying that. - Oh, no, it's just, And you are wrong. Y'all are so gifted. - Oh, he's amazing. - Yes, but it is true though or sing something or feel something you, and it's like you're that can really reach someone. And that's what I loved about that lyric. I love that it, you know You know how to sing this song right. You actually feel the lyrics. - Well, that's the good is that you can write about - And sometimes just (audience laughs) So we need, thank you. We need another break, everybody. Steve and Alison's single &quot;Wall Guitar&quot; is available tomorrow You've gotta check it out. And stick around actually, an exclusive performance, And it's exclusive with Vince Gill later in the show. But up next, Oscar and Grammy They're gonna play us out. - On the way out. - Okay. (lively banjo music) (audience cheering and applauding)