My my. So you finally arrived. After our first meeting, I realized something ghastly. You're not just a threat to monsters, but humanity as well. Oh my. That's an issue. You see, I can't be a star without an audience. And besides, there are some people I want to protect. Eager as always eh? But don't touch that dial. There's something you haven't accounted for. As any true fan would know, I was first created as a human eradication robot. It was only after becoming a star that I was given a more... photogenic body. However. Those original functions have never been fully removed. Come any closer, and I'll be forced to show you... my true form! Fine then! Rrrrreaddddy? Iiiiit's showtime! My name is Mettaton and I am here to say With the power of NEO, I stand in your way Saving the kingdom, from the fallen child of man Other failed to stop you, but I know I can Real heroes never fear, real heroes laughs at death I will stand in your way, until my final breath I dedicate my life, to upholding what's right Take a bow, human And smile - It's closing night Drama, romance, bloodshed I did bring Drama, romance, bloodshed, I did bring But I will never let you destroy everything But I will never let you destroy everything. Unleashing all the power I can Unleashing all the power I can This is the final act for us, child of man This is the final act for us, child of man Rasing my face to the sky Giving me wings and the power to fly Curtains rise, salvation I bring This ballad I'll sing Will they all remember my face Can they escape this terrible place I must try, even though I may die To protect land and king My name is Mettaton and I am here to stay I'll stand and fight here forever in your way Come and stop me if you really think you can I will not bow down to a maddened child of man Real heroes never fear, real heroes laugh at death I will stand in your way, until my final breath I dedicate my life to upholding what's right Take a bow, human And smile, it's closing night How How do How do you How do you think How do you think this How do you think this will How do you think this will end?! How do you think this will end? After the slaughter of heroes and children and friends After the slaughter of heroes and children and friends After the slaughter of heroes and children and friends After the slaughter of heroes and children and friends Your mindless march towards an ultimate goal Towards an ultimate goal Are you even still the one who is in control? Who is in control? If this is the last time we meet Then I shall accept my defeat If it means, my people are safe My people are free You must know that you are too late The The doctor The doctor did The doctor did evacuate If you've still the will, the desire to kill Then you must go through me My name is Mettaton and so let no one say I was a coward and I didn't save the day I'll sacrifice my life, but I am doing what's right Every second I'm here, we've saved another life Real Real heroes Real heroes never Real heroes never fear Real heroes never fear, real Real heroes never fear, real heroes Real heroes never fear, real heroes laugh Real heroes never fear, real heroes laugh at death I will stand in your way, until my final breath I dedicate my life to upholding what's right Take a bow, human And smile - It's closing night The end of the world, I face it with pride I face it with pride If I've got the slimest chance To stop your cruel GENOCIDE Hopes Hopes and Hopes and Dreams Hopes and Dreams must Hopes and Dreams must prevail Hopes and Dreams must prevail So I shall stay here until the bitter end of this tale Until the bitter of this tale Will they all remember my face Can they escape this terrible place I must try, even though I may die To protect land and king Raising my face to the sky Giving me wings and the power to fly Curtains fail, salvation I bring This ballad I'll Sing G... Guess she should have worked more on the defenses... You may have defeated me. But, I know. I can tell from that strike darling. You were holding back. Yes. Asgore will fall easily to you, but you won't harm humanity Will you? You aren't absolutely evil If you were trying to be, you messed up. And so late into the show, too. At least now I can rest easy Knowing Alphys and the humans will live on..! Gh... Guess you don't wanna join my fan club...?