Narrator: It's no secret And a standard lobster can set you back $38 or more. Lobsters are considered but there was a time when they were known as the cockroaches of the sea and even served to prisoners. So when did lobsters And why are they so expensive? There are a lot of species of lobster, but we're interested in the recognizable, clawed lobsters you might see on the menu: Homarus americanus and Homarus gammarus, better known as American These two species are very similar. The biggest difference is their color. We went to Ed's Lobster to speak to someone who buying, preparing, and Ed McFarland: So, one of the lobster is, truthfully, it's and it fluctuates greatly and the price increases. And the yield when you So you could buy a I think this is what most is in a pound-and-a-half lobster, there's probably only 4 ounces of meat out of a hard-shell lobster. So there's not much yield So when you're cleaning to make lobster rolls, it really turns into a very, very expensive product. Narrator: To fully understand what makes lobster so expensive, at its history, because it wasn't always as revered as it is now. Lobster's history varies across the world, but, for a long time, for many of the poorest in society. During the Viking era, lobsters as food became much more popular as boats more suited to deep-sea And by establishing meat-free days for certain religious holidays, the church also increased the demand for Across Europe, lobsters became associated with status and a lavish lifestyle. And they were often featured But the value of lobster Native Americans used and crop fertilizer, a colonists later copied. During the 1600s, American because they were so plentiful. Lobster became known as among European settlers, and the shellfish was often served to imprisoned and enslaved people. That reputation in the until the advent of railway Lobster started to be served on trains across the country, and of the exotic-seeming dish. For a better taste, chefs which they still do today. Unlike many other foods, in the United States during World War II, and the lack of other meat options led many more people to The shellfish's surging popularity reduced the stocks of lobsters and lobster became a gourmet with living the high life. Even when the supply of the price doesn't drop, due Successfully catching They're caught using traps, which have to all be baited and dropped Even if the traps are full they might have to throw a The crustaceans are put too small, or if they're The ones that make the and are placed on ice before They're then kept in saltwater They need to be kept cool and moist, as well as get enough oxygen all of which increases the A commercial lobster farm but it's very difficult American or European lobsters. Out of 50,000 eggs, only two lobsters typically survive to reach a legal size. And if the lobsters don't get enough food, they become cannibalistic. They're also highly susceptible particularly in confined spaces. On top of all that, they grow very slowly. It takes around seven years for a lobster to mature to the required harvesting size. Regardless, lobster catches And wild-lobster populations possibly thanks to global warming. Climate change has led to warmer waters, and therefore longer life cycles and higher fertility for lobsters. Even when there's plenty it's still expensive. In 2017, the price of because of the high despite a record catch the year before. McFarland: The wholesale price anywhere from $8 to $10, depending So right now, market we charge $38 for a And our lobster roll is $34 And if we all stop and the lobster delivery is gonna come in. Narrator: Ed's Lobster of 150 to 200 pounds McFarland: All of our for a day or day and half, max. Nothing ever sits in the So the reason why you want number one, because a dead When the lobster is dead, the meat is gonna turn to mush, it's gonna smell bad, and It kind of disintegrates inside the shell. And if you actually served or ate that, you're definitely gonna get sick. So you always want to is alive and kicking before you cook it. Narrator: Lobsters have become a favorite summertime treat. On a busy night, Ed's will McFarland: You know, summer is definitely the season for lobster rolls. It's when it's everybody's thought process here in New York City. Everybody's coming in the summer. They can't get down to the beach 'cause they wanna get Narrator: People just can't But a shortage in the Lobster fishers use herring as bait, and there's about to Because of concerns about overfishing, the New England Fishery Management Council last year voted to limit fishers to about 46 million pounds In 2014, fishers caught 200 With so much less available to buy, the price of herring will likely rise, which would, in turn, make And will people be for their lobster? McFarland: You know, I'm very concerned about lobster prices rising. It seems to be the bottom just keeps going higher and higher every year. I don't believe the consumer is willing to continually absorb the price increase that we have to absorb as restaurant owners selling lobster.