If you can empty your mind of all thoughts Lao Tzu We live in a world where striving is the norm. and self-optimization. We've become our own to achieve more and move faster. We live in and anxiety have become embedded in the fabric become more prevalent and severe, we're on to collective self-destruction. Today's so disconnected from the natural flow of consumption, and materialism that Luckily, the ancient Taoist sages left us with tranquility in our lives. Take Lao Tzu, for two thousand years ago, which became one Although times were drastically different predicament as many do today: they disagreed They looked for a different way to live. with After Skool, I thought it would be nice explore Taoist views that could help us If you want to help keep this channel going, become a Patreon supporter. You'll get Also, check out my new novel! If you like Stoic available on Amazon at a special introductory Today's world is stressful. Compared to simpler consider. Just look at the abundance of choices from--and the many ways we could live our lives. we talked about the achievement society as achievement subjects, have become our accomplishing more and more, often to the system is putting endless strain on its people. ourselves beyond our means, running rat races, It's like just having a PhD isn't enough: a perfect marriage, an interesting and amazing and displaying all these things on social encourage each other to self-exploit, it's tormented by worries of the future, and tasks and to-do lists. Our lives have become with hardly any time for reflection. Contemplation a sin. We should be grinding, always We should always be headed toward the prize. of non-action will eventually wear has some wisdom to teach us that might help The author of the Tao Te Ching (which is quite a mysterious fellow. Most scholars agree spelled Laozi or Lao Tse. However, there's a who this man really was. Some even doubt if he Lao Tzu was up to is in his legacy, a book universal and all-encompassing force named Tao. as going with the flow, the vanity of striving and harmony with nature. An underlying theme of letting go, which I believe is a vital Understanding and embracing this power can What's so refreshing about Lao Tzu's teachings direction. The Tao Te Ching seems to be a guide could make anyone question how they live their and accomplishing. For example, in chapter Fame or self: Which matters more? Self or wealth: Which is more precious? He who is attached to things will suffer much. A contented man is never disappointed. find himself in trouble. End quote. Today's society praises excess, whether it's wealth, fame, or material winner. Millions of followers on Instagram? You've things that are essentially beyond our control. wealth or ourselves, how we feel, our contentment those who like attention, but there are many and maintain it. Just look at those who have it, sometimes out of desperation, to stay relevant. for sure. But does money itself make us happy? our happiness and contentment don't depend on all It's the absence of lack, the feeling that the require all the stuff society tells us we should cultivating contentment with less. The James Be content with what you have; When you realize there is nothing lacking, It's no surprise that we're always so busy. so many paths to take, and so many ways to buy more, and experience more. The a source of stress and exhaustion. Let's If you over-esteem talented individuals, If you overvalue possessions, Do not display your treasures End quote. the problem with our achievement society. First so people behave accordingly. It's all about we are compared to others. And yes, people have almost everything, we find competition or social media. The common good isn't important as we have become entrepreneurs of ourselves. Aren't these the indicators of success successful achievement subject? "People begin but not only that. People act in unethical, others down to get higher up. Needless to say, Also, Lao Tzu observed that showing off our which only attracts trouble and leads to the harder it is to protect," he argued. embracing simplicity may be a wise these modern-day desires? What if we in so many different areas? How about not out? How about not being successful according to be if we would ignore today's society's In earlier videos on Taoism, we've explored the oneself float along with it. The idea is simple: effort to get somewhere, but sometimes, we we become exhausted. Therefore, Lao Tzu repeatedly aware of the workings of the universe, we could example, overstretching ourselves in our pursuit may cause us to constantly push ourselves toward as Lao Tzu stated: "Those who stand on Lao Tzu also advises his readers to be weary trees catch the most wind. And when we're at the stay there because many want the top position. in which one lives more privately, with less less effort. In short, we're standing more Lao Tzu also has a message for the go-getters or fall for get-rich-quick schemes, which are "Those who rush ahead don't get very far," he (the act of doing several things simultaneously), really well at one task or create something of that's always in a rush. We're rushing to get to self-improve. Learn Spanish in 6 days! Get dropshipping and retire before you're twenty-five! So, why the rush? Why the overstretching? Why live doing ourselves a favor. Yet, society commands us if we're swimming against the stream, doing is a concerned with showing that they're productive things like substance, balance, patience, careful exactly celebrated. But these are the fundamentals What if we let go of the societal expectation of but unsubstantial status and success? "Those who Lao Tzu. What if we put substance over status and of what philosopher Alain de Botton calls 'Status comparing oneself to others and worrying that We just have to contemplate the vastness we are as fragile humans living on outskirts of the galaxy. Perhaps for that as we incessantly try to control our Do you want to rule the world and control it? The world is sacred vessel You will only it make it worse if you try. End quote. ways we try to control our environment and and we believe that accumulating a lot of money will ensure that. We want to be perceived highly place to make sure our surroundings think so we answer to all of our employers' whims so we and night. But we're never safe. We can't command our boss's attitude towards us. Once we so. We might even harm ourselves if we hold and the universe might work against us, as not focus on what we can control, which is our to do so, we'll have to be willing to let that Thank you for watching.