The ruins of great cities about the people who built them. In these mud-walled streets, The key to it a mystical silver serpent and uncoils through an immense landscape. People settled on its banks They tamed the rivers However, what do we know about them? A century of archeological digs This civilization flourished then vanished into historical limbo. However, it left behind One day at sunrise, after his morning ablutions Srila Vyasadeva sat down to meditate. The great sage saw certain anomalies He foresaw that the life for lack of virtue. At the end of a hard day in 1920, Professor M.S. Vats the key site in the Indus Civilization. The light of the setting sun At the same time, Professor Adi Banerjee of a gigantic city, Mohenjo-Daro. In Europe, archeologists reacted European scholars had always downplayed Since then, no less than a thousand sites in a region The Indus, born of the Himalayan snows is 3,000 kilometers long. Its valley was home For a long time, our image The first archeologists thought They unearthed toys, The people seemed oblivious They appeared to be a carefree, The Arcadians of the Indus. [French spoken audio] Mohenjo-Daro in the Sind province of southern Pakistan. Two thousand years before Christ, this land was settled by newcomers Today it is desert. However, on this spot, they founded the largest city with 40,000 people The streets reflect The city layout is a model Residential blocks are defined by long, crossing at right angles. The main street It's easy to imagine it filled Imagine the archeologists' surprise when they discovered that the entire city It had 80 public toilets. In the residential areas, every house had a tiled bathroom Sewers serviced the whole city. In a unique system drains for wastewater, gutters, and water collectors In cul-de-sacs and smaller streets, wastewater was poured Some crossroads had brick containers The most spectacular discovery on a huge brick platform, the last refuge The people of Mohenjo-Daro For their daily ablutions, Round about it The thousand cities of this civilization twice as large as France. One of them Desertification has now made it The city was Dholavira, a junction for the trade routes The Indus builders mostly used brick. Unfired bricks for walls In Dholavira, archeologists 15 meters high. The walls testify to the mastery who must already have been familiar Dholavira carpenters used Himalayan cedar into the finely cut Here too, a complex water system Water was used to clean the street. It ran into underground conduits, Since it was discovered in 1989, an entire city has gradually over eight meters deep. However, Dholavira has also been archeologists are particularly interested For Professor R.S. Bishit and his team, Dholavira brought a fresh perspective on the technological knowledge The dig showed had burrowed right into the bedrock. As the archeologists they uncovered strange structures For a long time, Look at this, it's going deeper, We don't know how deep it is. We have already gone down eight meters and it is still going deeper. The rock reservoir you have seen there. Was this structure part or perhaps an underground dwelling? How were these walls built? They were constructed with great care. The stones fit exactly, which also makes up the floor of the pit. I'm standing in a long and deep reservoir In fact, this is the first example or rock-cut architecture. by the Harappans. It is continuing further eastward further westward on that side. We have already confirmed which lies 85 meters away, further west. Dholavira finally yielded up Professor Bishit believes that the city Thanks to his work, the city plan Dholavira was surrounded The city covered 48 hectares In its center Another wall separated the upper part The city had many gardens, Dholavira's wealth and its people Even after the general plan it still took archeologists how the reservoirs surrounding it Drinking water has always been scarce Today, the sea has retreated, The remaining villages and yet the people of the Indus Five thousand years ago, in a land alternately burnt by the sun a civilization grew up [French spoken audio] Every year, in July, the monsoon covers in a blanket of rain. That's when the Indus, breaks its banks. It spreads everywhere, However, the floods People welcome Their properties are mainly out of reach How did the people of the Indus manage to tame The archeologists found the answer in dry riverbeds, they found traces of stone structures. These were the remains of dams That was the answer. The people of Dholavira to fill gigantic reservoirs, the largest of which was 79 meters long Nor was that all, for the water to flow the architects had to use The upper city is situated 13 meters higher That was how they retained the water. Aqueducts carried it The stored water also made it possible for most of the year. The plan of the city was entirely devised Dholavira, Mistress of the river, The ruins of Dholavira are now silent. The relentless heat splits the stone. Water no longer flows in the street, and yet a strange atmosphere for this city worshipped water The Citadel, at the top of the city, also had an ingenious system Gutters channeled rainwater For years, archeologists did the Dholavirans make between water For the people of Dholavira, water was the fundamental element Its marriage with the earth Its alliance with man In the heart of the citadel There, in the middle of a paved esplanade, the Dholavirans had placed two tanks whose mouths gaped toward the heavens. However, the men who dug them The archeologists It was a well four meters in diameter Women came here to draw water. The edge of the well still has the grooves where the women For the people of Dholavira, the purest water was that drawn The blessed liquid filled two small pools in which worshippers When descending these steps, they were encountering the Universal Mother, Dholavira is no longer No splash or trickle Another mystery Civilization developed Why are most rediscovered cities in the middle Why do they dot desert valleys? To answer these questions, archeologists point The Ghagger-Hakra, once flowed through the Tar Desert. The river has now disappeared, [Foreign spoken audio] The water is still stagnating. One thing, there is satellite imagery. Second, the ground we are standing on Third, evidence of water Otherwise, there was no point It is no pond. It is part of a riverbed. These are the three pieces of evidence. Four thousand-five hundred years ago, a powerful river The Ghagger-Hakra said to have risen high While excavating some unusual earthworks, archeologists discovered dikes They found the same brick walls, the same system of water management, Today, geologists Four thousand years ago, a powerful earthquake It shifted further east but the groundwater artery just a few meters beneath the surface. From 1990, new wells were dug, and the precious water Over 4000 years after it disappeared, the Ghagger-Hakra With it, a whole region came back to life. Fields reappeared in the landscape, Much time had passed, but the same methods of cultivating land Once again, water emerged Two thousand years before Christ, fields of wheat and barley between the Indus and the Ghagger-Hakra. Traces found on pottery The peasants also grew peas They kept buffaloes and zebu cattle, A diverse bountiful agriculture Soon villages appeared in the most remote regions Civilization was spreading. In the walled cities, artisans were able Every city had its craftsman's quarter. Ideas, methods, in the markets, in jewelers' workshops, The streets teamed Stonemasons fashioned new tools The city dwellers mastered the art They made weapons, mirrors, and razors, Their ceramics They mastered the art Artists carved ivory in gold to make jewelry. The level of production seemed on the verge of an industrial era. [French spoken audio] With their first trading journeys, the people of the Indus took care with clay stamps or copper plates, but their favorite method a material that hardens when heated. Merchants hung them around their necks, The development of long-distance trade and invent the concept of the contract. To seal a contract, they used finely carved stone cylinders More than 2000 of these seals they're carved with animal profiles. Zebu, buffalo, and crocodiles, all with more intricate Inscriptions accompany the images. archeologists have identified [French spoken audio] In 1999, a wave of excitement At the foot of the northern entrance, the archeological team Their brushes uncovered After several minutes of careful work, All the workers gathered to watch. Everyone held their breath. It could be a historic moment the Indus script One after another, made of inlaid quartz, Originally, they were probably set long since rotted away. The team was on tenterhooks composed over 4,000 years ago. After several hours, the archeologists Once again, they had uncovered The Indus script What do these signs mean? What do they tell us about the structure was thought to be ruled by a single man, I think this is the oldest signboard going back to the Harappan times. While excavating, Those letters must have been pasted I don't think this is the right place I believe that it should have been spotted I don't think we should have brought in That sort of thing. One doesn't know. However, in the situation we see here, we think that the Harappan empire It was an economic empire. It was a cultural empire within which there were several rulers. Some were mightier than the rest. One might have been the mightiest, There were several kings or some princelings Will these nine-stone figures Did the northern entrance bear the name of the sovereign Some experts think so. However, others, think it represents put up at the entrance of a city. The archeologists can only dream. Perhaps somewhere, The find that will solve the mystery Did it have poets and writers? What were its legends? What was its concept of the world? Without these texts, we will never understand which soon set its eyes on faraway lands. Four thousand years ago, the people of the Indus set out to find They needed copper, Their caravans took the road west They founded colonies on the borders of Afghanistan. Soon they were looking and the Indus Delta. Beyond were lands that attracted them, A strategy of exchange Up until then, the people of the Indus Valley Their craft went up and down the rivers, carrying passengers These small crafts live on in Pakistan. Flat-bottomed boats suited Their design [Foreign spoken audio] Cautiously, the first navigators followed the shores Sea transport soon proved its value. It was faster than the long and above all, However, where were the merchant vessels [French spoken audio] A fabulous odyssey began. The first navigators and discovered the world. Sailing from Harappa, the boats reached the Oman peninsula, they sailed the Persian Gulf 3,500 kilometers from the Indus Valley. Abu Dhabi, at the entrance of the Persian Gulf, Today it is a bustling commercial port, where fishing boats It was here With their totally different culture how did they make their first contact? [French spoken audio] The island of Umm an-Nar, the influence of its civilization over the Arabian desert. Its royal tombs tell the story. In them, archeologists and ceramics typical of the Indus Valley. This hole or these burials go back to sometime The material, mainly the pottery, we have identified at least 10 percent that was imported from outside, Even further off, archeologists for proof of a cultural marriage It's a huge task. They have identified a thousand tombs In this burial complex, Dr. Alsendi A text that will allow scholars of the Indus civilization. In the world of archeology, that would have had the same impact of Egyptian hieroglyphs in the 1820s. I hope that one day we will find Indus Valley and Mesopotamia. We solve the problem in one grave We hope that. Don't forget that here in Bahrain, we have thousands There are two merchants, two cultures, coming and sitting together here We believe that one day we will find it. History teaches are destined to disappear. The Indus Civilization was no exception. From 1800 BC onward, it was no longer mentioned Little by little, the streets The craftsman's quarters The buildings and irrigation systems The great cities were ravaged by time How can we explain this sudden decay? Theories abound. Some experts think the Empire succumbed Others suggest that it was devastated What cataclysm brought about the end and where did their people go? Did they die? Did they flee? Did the disappearance force irreversible changes We have no texts and we know too little to be able to pin down Can we speak of a decline? What do we know of the world [French spoken audio] The Empire literally fell apart. The fertile lands around Harappa, or Dholavira formed independent states. New crops appeared, camels, and donkeys. Gradually, what had been one people and yet some have preserved Adalaj, a temple in the heart of India, carved in the rock in the 16th century, It's a passage between two worlds, between the entrails of the earth Thousands of worshipers still come here to gaze at the smooth surface It's thought The elusive civilization of the Indus was a brilliant Today, the banks of the Ganges heirs to a long tradition. [Foreign spoken audio] That is the legacy. It was passed on to medieval and it reaches us seemingly unchanged. These gestures and these chants Watching the rituals worshiping a benevolent god we see the faces The people who, to build their empire,