Hello. My name is I was born on My mom is She is from Algeria. My father is and the ruler of Dubai, Mohammed bin Rashid Saeed Al Maktoum. He has three I'm the middle one. There is one older than And he has two I have thirty I had to say that in case this video is 'no you know there is a Yeah, there's three I'm the middle Latifa. My full sisters are They're both older than me and Majid, he's And I'm making this video Yeah. [sigh] Pretty soon I'm going and I'm not so sure I'm ninety-nine And if it doesn't then because all my father He will kill people to He... he only cares So, this video And if you are watching this Either I'm dead or I'm in a So, where do I begin? In 2000, my sister Shamsa while She was 18 years old, She ran away. And in the two we were in contact with my mom Where as she had and all of them. So while she... she escaped because she She didn't have freedom to do the things would take for granted, like driving a car or traveling or for your own future. Freedom of choice is not So when you have it, you take it for granted So yeah, she ran away and the whole And I was fourteen years old at that time. And yeah, Shamsa was... I saw her almost as a mother figure. Yeah, she's my big sister. She's like a mother also to me I would speak to So yeah when she I was happy for her but at the And what she did was, she also contacted whose name is Leila Harab(?) and she kept calling Leila. And what my father has and he tried to bribe her with a Rolex and he said we need to tap your phone to track Shamsa to see where she is. So that's what they did. And Leila told Shamsa, she told her 'My phone is bugged.' 'They're trying to And Shamsa told 'Stop calling Leila. Because, if I think she was very She had nobody else to talk to. So she So, yeah after two Basically, she and a bunch of guys they found her, they grabbed her, and she was driven somewhere by a helicopter... she was ended up in France and She was drugged on the plane. It was a private jet, so She was drugged, and basically It's the building, is called But it's not a tent, it's And it's on... on the property of And she was kept And during that time, we could send her some So, we snuck in 'We' meaning me and Mona Al Lamara(?) We were in contact with her and we snuck in a telephone, So, while she was inside, she contacted some and they released I think it was around May 2001 The stories... Google 'Shamsa Al Maktoum' Her, her escape and all of that. So when the story came out, I think they somebody was helping her or whatever. So, the police went and they and they And my sister in the evening the 'Mona was taken by the and beating her up basically what do you know about Shamsa?' And Maitha was kind of You know like... I'm gonna interrogate I said I don't know anything. And... so anyway, I went and I told my Fatima Lamara(?) Who by the way was She was kept... So, another story... She's kept in a cabin on Separated from the rest Her naughty behavior. She's... she's rebellious. So, she's basically And, anyway... I told our to slide it under And I told her you know Mona has been and everything. And then Fatima just went crazy, she and the door. She threw this.. the metal She broke it. She got out. She took a knife. She was threatening Ali, but he is also like.. of my father's right-hand man. So he was kind of like in So she took a knife and `I want to see Mona, So they took Fatima. They put her in prison And then they realized We didn't tell her because we couldn't Anyway, what happened after that? All my friends, all my... I lost everyone that day. It was... it was a very hard day for me. And of course I lost my So, approximately a year later as a 16-year-old, I Back then I didn't have the internet. I didn't have.. I was very... it was 2002. Internet existed but I didn't have it, I didn't have Internet. I didn't have a phone. The only phone I had so it wasn't approved So, I decided I'm gonna go, I'm gonna find a Like, I'm gonna go to Oman. I'm gonna just go there and and I'm gonna help Shamsa. In the worst case scenario if they I'm gonna be in prison with her, so at least that she has somebody with her She's not gonna hurt herself. She has her sister with her, You know... So I was thinking either I get her So, in 2002 I escaped. And they caught me at the border. And yeah like... I was very, very naive. I thought you can just... there's like a I didn't realize what a border looks like. I've never been to a border in my life. I didn't have internet to research it. I didn't have anyone to I couldn't... I had no one. Nobody even knew what... like I mean... they didn't know I couldn't talk to anybody about it. So, yeah... I wasn't allowed to go I would sometimes go to and apart from that I didn't So, I did I didn't have... I was... I didn't know anything. So, yeah, they caught me at the border They brought me back to Dubai and my under my father's orders yeah, they... they put me Basically, one guy was holding me, and they did that, repeatedly. I think the first time they because I was in so much shock. I didn't... It was like somebody was hitting I could see what I was like, are they What's going on? I didn't... I didn't even... the pain didn't shock and it was a long day I didn't... I didn't feel the pain and And then the next for five hours and yeah driven to another in the same building, The Kheima, the tent, which is not a tent. And yeah, they tortured me. I knew how long it and they told me to beat you until we kill you. That's his orders, Your father, the So all of this public image It's bullshit. He's the most evil He's pure evil. There's nothing good in him. He's responsible for and ruining so many people's lives. He doesn't care about anyone. He only cares about and he will gladly kill somebody, but he doesn't do it himself. He just... he... He'll just get other people to do it. He doesn't care. After my uncle died, he killed... he killed her. Everyone knows Because she was too... her behavior was too outrageous. She was too... I think... and he felt threatened by her. So he just killed her. Of course, he couldn't but he could do Everybody knows So, in total I was imprisoned I went in June 2002 I don't know... do the math. But in 2003 for a They put me back home, &quot;home,&quot; it's not a home. It's my house, my mom's house. They put me back there for a week and it was surreal. When I went I expected some sympathy, maybe? Since prison was not it was constant torture, constant torture. Even when they weren't they would torture me. They would switch off all the lights. I was in solitary and there's no windows, there's no light, so when they switched off They could switch it off when one day ended and then they would... they would make then they would come pull me out of bed to beat me and it wasn't... it wasn't a normal prison It was just torture. And they didn't give me anything. I didn't have a change of clothes. So I wore the same clothes and I but you know after the So I would crawl to the bathroom to I would just crawl on my hands and knees. There was no medical help at all. They didn't care. They wanted me dead anyway. And yeah, so I didn't have anything. I had a thin mattress that had holes and it was disgusting, it smelled so bad. I had a thin blanket And I had the clothes I was wearing. And then I think in the last few just one toothbrush, you know. So, I didn't... I didn't... it was so hard to stay clean clothes washing... like Tide, So I would use the clothes washing It was really disgusting. So, yeah... so after that experience, from that to a house with soap and clothes So I would shower like There was warm water. There was... there was soap. There was a towel. There was clothes. I couldn't believe it. There's a toothbrush. There was food, not food in like a little container meat and rice, meat and rice. It wasn't like these little It was food that I can... I was very, very I had lost so much weight. All of my clothes were I needed to get new clothes. And everything So I remember, I remember when I came out even in the car, I remember the car I had not moved for So the car felt like I was like wow, And when I went home having all Normal? I don't know what normal is Every time... I mean, even now... I am... if I hear a noise I just wake up and I remember for a few whenever I could hear I would just jump up out of bed, you know, I would just jump. I wouldn't... and I would stand I'm ready for anything. Yeah. So, yeah... that wasn't a good time. So after a week of being at the and she didn't show Actually, what she said to me was `You think your prison experience was bad?' `There's others that's so and when that happened I felt really, really I really expected some compassion from her like any.. as any kind of mother but there was no compassion. I also didn't get any She didn't, They could have but they didn't... But at the same time they didn't put They could've visited me if they wanted to. They could've fought for me a little bit more. They could've had some compassion, 'Oh you did this to yourself' No I didn't. I didn't tell Shamsa to I didn't tell her to keep calling Leila. I didn't tell her to get caught. I didn't... I didn't do this to myself. My only thing was... I was trying to defend and that's what happened to me. So back to me being at the house. So I only stayed in the house for one week because after one week I don't remember how but I just kept go see Shamsa and I It was like... I can't explain it. I literally just kept 'I want to see Shamsa, 'I want to see Shamsa' and that ended up like I was So they were holding me and They called the police, but at some And then there was a doctor. I saw a doctor and she injected me and I don't remember. I think it was a car I couldn't remember. They tried to tranquilize me. It didn't work the first time. They put me in the hospital. I remember them putting... sticking And then I just remember flashes of like... seeing people trying to feed me and then then waking up like I lost I had no voice because I lost all So, yeah... and then I don't know how much they tranquilize me And then yeah... then and... with no there were And they were trying to make like not, not to treat me because I'm not a mental patient. I told them what I went through I could talk to them and tell them like what they tried to make me feel normal. And anyway so after one week in the they put me back in prison again. So in total I spent three And I didn't know They just told me you know your father And yeah, they didn't manage to kill me. They wanted to, but they didn't manage to. So when I got out, the second I of course I... I just... I hated everyone. I didn't trust any people at all.. like for me all people were bad, all people were not to be trusted, all people they were just against you, you know, that's how I felt. So I spent a lot of time with animals with the horses, with with just different kinds of animals. I would spend my days with animals and then I would go to my room but I wouldn't interact with people. I didn't have anyone I trusted. And then I... yeah, I don't know... I don't know how many fully recover from that experience. I don't know. I don't know when started to be more normal. I don't know if I'm normal now. I mean it's something that that really changes you, you know, makes you lose trust in people. The summer of 2017 is when a lot of things changed, that kind of pushed me to... Go... like I can't wait any longer for I realized you know this took that me being here I can't help her here. I need to leave. And that's the only way I can help her. That 's only I can help myself. I can help her. I can help a lot of people, I cannot help her at all. So... and also in 2017, I lost a good friend in the summer and it made me see how life is so... so short. You know. There's no guarantees. It's just, just... there is no reason to or somebody to be ready. There's no reason to keep waiting just Shamsa will be fine without you So I need to make this video. In case I don't make it. It's not gonna be in vain, I have to... I have to remember to say I don't know what else to say. I don't know what else to say. They will for sure will try to discredit or something for sure. I don't know what I'll just say more information about me. I went to Dubai English and then I went to and then for one year And then yeah when I got out of And then I was scuba diving in Fujairah So there's a lot of people They know my face. They know me. So even if they try some of my friends `I know the Latifa and Anyway I look like my sister Maitha. I look like my brother Majid So even if they try to So... And I've also given copies of my passport which by the way... I don't have possession of my passport, My UAE passport is I just got a photocopy oh, my... when I got, when after I left prison, I did some So, I took a picture of my passport then and also when I did the FAI? I think that's what it's called... and which requires so I managed to copy... They wouldn't even give me my passport, So I'm not allowed to drive. I'm not allowed to I can't. I've been asking a lot just to go They don't let me. I have to... I have a curfew when I have to be back at a certain time. They... my mom she always like The drivers report back to my We have assigned drivers. We're not allowed to I have to go with the driver. The driver has to know exactly where I am. Yeah, so that's my life basically. It's very restricted. I can't... I can't even go to I can't. So I have to be in Dubai. Yeah. So, yeah, even if I have a lot of data that Well, they will try and So, yeah, this is I hope it isn't... I hope I never use this video. I hope this video just but this video needed to be made. I don't know So, what I'm I get my passport and I have freedom and I can help I can say give her her passport. Let her travel. Let her see me. And, I think that's the only I don't know what else to say. I can talk about a lot of When... when I was So she took me away from my mom. So I lived for the first believing that my aunt and I would visit my I would never sleep there. I'd just spend the day And when my younger my mom also gave him. Well, she... she that one was more so she gave my brother So, yeah for the first ten then I discovered who I was and I was fighting to Shamsa was fighting So I always saw Shamsa So I was trying really but so far I haven't been successful. I know what else they'll probably do. They'll probably tell Shamsa to make to discredit me or something like that. For sure they will try to do that... knowing them. Of course, she will. She has no freedom. She can't do anything you know. She's... right now she's... she has a psychiatrist with her and she's surrounded by nurses. They're in her room when she sleeps. They take notes of when she wakes up, when she sleeps, when she eats, what she eats, what she says, the conversation she says, they watch her, take her pills, they make sure that she takes all of her pills, these... these drugs to control her mind, I don't know what they are. And so her life is totally controlled. Oh yeah in the summer I should have said is, Shamsa was discovered my mom and my that she was gonna try to to talk to them about try to... to tarnish They were scared of that. So that's when her That's when the psychiatrist She's already dealing with psychiatrists like... like as much as she is now. And full-time Basically like walking around so she has no... no freedom. So basically yeah I think... I think what they will do is they That would be amazing because... yeah they will... they will They will never be able to get you know... they're not gonna take me back alive, so that's not gonna happen. I don't know what else to say. I mean this... this has been like a crazy We're in 2018 now, it's been... A lot of people... a lot of people's a lot of people tortured, a lot of people lost their lives, a lot of things happened... you know He... he covers up a lot of murders. He doesn't care, my father. He's the worst criminal and he has this image of so modern and all this bullshit. I have thirty brothers and sisters. He doesn't... He only puts the pictures and he has that's all... all bullshit. He doesn't. It's just PR. He has a son in He saw... he met him maybe you know when his son came to Dubai. He's... he's neglected He's not a... he's not a father. He's really, really disgusting, really disgusting human being. Yeah, the way he lives his life It's not what's been Remember in Dubai, as is much of the Middle East. I don't know what else to say. I feel like if this thing kills me, or if I don't make it out It's sad that it's come to this point I don't know what else to say. trying to think of anything, everything, what else can I say about my life... I don't know what else to say. I really hope I don't need this video. And I'm feeling I won't need it. I'm feeling positive about the future and I'm feeling like It's a start of... of me claiming I don't expect it to but I expect it to be the and one where I have some voice where I don't have to be silenced and I can talk about myself, I can talk about what happened with us. Yeah, I'm really looking forward to that. Yeah, I don't know, I don't know how... how and thinking... I can do whatever I want today. I can go wherever I want. I have all the choices That'll be such a new different feeling. That would be amazing. I'm really looking forward to that. There's only so much you can and trapped by all these restrictions. There's only so much a human being can do. I'm looking forward to that and I'm I'm looking forward to a lot of things. Yeah, I really feel like this is I have no reason to stay in Dubai, at all. I have no reason to come back here. I have people I love, but they can come see me. You know the people in they can come see me wherever I am. And that's also hard because I don't know where I don't know where... where I can live. I don't know anything. I don't know where I'm going. We don't know. I know where I'm stopping. I know where... where I have to be for It is kind of nice also. I have all the options then, hopefully. Yeah... did I forget to say anything? What do I talk about? Do I talk about all the murders? Do I talk about all the abuse I've seen? Do I talk about... what? I don't know what to talk about because that would I don't know. I should, shouldn't I? He's responsible for a lot of deaths. He is a major, There is no justice here. They don't care, especially if They don't care. He's even burned down He's burned down houses. He's crazy. I think it's time that he faces the He will. He will definitely face the consequences. No matter what he does to me, all He doesn't scare me. He's pathetic Pathetic human being. And he's gonna face the not just to me, but to everyone else. He will face the consequences. Yeah. Okay, I think there's Hopefully, I don't need this video. Any final words... Any final words? Thank you to all my friends and to my... to the family you know who you are, not all of you care Thank you to those people. And if I don't make it out, I really hope there's some positive Okay.