Okay, so video game stories are unique Like, whether or not you GERALT: "How many people's lives have PREACHER: "That has no bearing--" Those choices might cause an immediate reaction... GERALT: "There's something to think about, folks". Or, in some cases, the game might remember your decision and issue some GUARD 1: "Geralt of Rivia. Witcher". religious sentiment. We've orders Now, these sorts of choices have interactive fiction, and... whatever we're And I think that's partly because back to improvisational tabletop games, and But I think it's also just an interface thing. interaction is to pick options from a menu - So making choices about the But what if your game doesn't have that? or an action game? How do you let players Well, one way to do it can be seen in but it features an infamous moral choice: you need to decide whether to save her - or And, in these moments, the game slows and just slaps a big ol' pair of button prompts LITTLE SISTER: "No, no! No no!" So that's one way to do it. Just kinda more suitable genres - whether that's Or a dialogue wheel. I'm going But there's actually another way to do it. Let's look at another shooter - Here, we come across two men, snipers aiming at their bodies. WALKER: "I get it, we're meant to choose" But this time, there are Instead, you decide which person Walker will *Gunfire* So that's a very different way to do it. Instead Spec Ops lets players express their intent by the game. This is a game about shooting I call this, you guessed And I think these, rare beasts have some video I'm going to share four key reasons why you Okay. Advantage number one - invisible So in Bioshock Infinite, you're told to did you know you can actually throw it at the right there on the screen. That kinda spoiled input system demands you list every Back to that choice in Spec Ops, though, and one of the two men... you can also decide to Or refuse to make a choice at all. Because the choice is invisible, the game can enterprising players really think about the Spec Ops is actually full of these things. on Walker and you're encouraged to shoot or just do a non-lethal melee There's also a memorable one in Far Cry 4 - giving you a chance to escape from his fortress. But if you actually just wait for his These hidden options can make players less like a rigid sequence of choices - and Advantage two. The choices don't have to be equal. So back to Bioshock for a second - when it the choice is equal. I mean, sure, And one might make you feel bad. But the press one button on your controller, or the other. But then consider a game like Undertale. monsters and bosses in the game - or and it's - usually - a lot harder to save the So that means you need to put in And you might decide to make a certain choice... or cost too many resources, to do the other thing. Like, there's a bit in Deus Ex: Human Revolution and it's possible to save her - as long as you are It's not a moral choice whether she lives Also, picking immoral and selfish choices icky - but it's even worse when you have to When you slowly, manually, personally steal it makes you, the player, feel even Okay! That was a bummer. Uh, So, when we think about more explicit choices, points. Picking between the lives of two Or, uh, what to have for breakfast. But when a game is tracking invisible choices, databank of everything the player is doing - and This can lead to a game feeling Orks in Shadow of War can recall the Or how the characters in Hades discuss HYPNOS: "Daw, one of those Wretched Louts those mean old slappy guys? Maybe try It means the game can comment on tiny is why JC Denton gets chewed out for Or how long you take to do something - waste Mass Effect 2, and you'll find the Normandy This makes you think about the effects of every obvious choices. So, in Dishonored, for example, chaos meter - which can change the outcome of and add more rats to the world. And so because to change the future, you end up playing Same goes for Metal Gear Solid V, and by popping on helmets or And finally, advantage four. Surprising outcomes. One of the biggest problems with explicit choices making a decision. let's put a notification on screen to back that up. So, it's pretty hard to surprise players But with invisible choices, the game actions without you ever realising it - and then Like, in Metal Gear Solid, when you encounter PSYCHO-MANTIS: "You are a very methodical man. The And yet you're rather ineffective in battle." What's actually happening here is that all along, how often you save, how many traps you've sprung, And then Psycho-Mantis can give the appropriate but a neat example of how invisible Other examples might include only for him to come to your aid in actions at the start of Chrono Trigger The other thing is - because explicit I think players quite rightly expect for them storyline. And to be disappointed when, typically, even tiny consequences are impressive Now, if I'm going to be listing advantages... challenges of implementing invisible choices. For one, it can be hard to honour every choice the where you have to deal with some skinny-dipping different actions - including tossing their had to create a very complex and robust system Interested devs can find some resources to in the description for this video. Also, this system doesn't really work for communicating to the game is down the barrel nuanced decisions. But it doesn't have to that game tracks actions like picking up system through the walkie-talkie. That gives Another challenge is that when choices are they even had access to certain options I made a video about Fort Frolic in Bioshock, killing Sander Cohen. But according to my comment away was a valid choice. So, you may need to And, finally, players may not realise of previous actions. The nice thing about explicit the fact you're having an impact on the game. But In playtests of Dishonored, Arkane found incredibly linear - but only because those player They were too subtle, too organic. Likewise, and have no understanding that the cutscene obscure and obtuse actions It's important, then, when using invisible and make it crystal clear to players that GHURA THE SINGER: "Like a little chorus he comes Too subtle, and all your hard work is wasted. So, there we have it. Action games don't need to twist in order to react, remember, or These games already have ways for the player and decisions, and moral leanings. players can speak using the verbs they've And in doing so, games can make One choice can be harder to make than another. the player is making. And the consequences Ultimately, we say that actions reckon more games should make that Hey! Happy new year! So people who "reading list" of 20 articles and videos that why the superhero genre is You can check out the full list over on Thanks so much for your support.