ANDREW HUBERMAN: Welcome to where we discuss science for everyday life. [MUSIC PLAYING] I'm Andrew Huberman, of Neurobiology at Stanford School of Medicine. Today, my guest is Lex Fridman is an expert engineering, artificial He is also the host of the initially started on technology and including computer but rapidly evolved to include as a matter of focus, For instance, Dr. Lex in Brazilian jujitsu. And he's had numerous come from the fields both from the coaching side He also has shown in topics such as chess that involves intense activation and/or body. In fact, the Lex evolved to take on such as mental health-- he's and other guests on that and mental illness, as well as and some of the more that face our times. He's had comedians, he's had he's had enemies on his podcast. Lex has a phenomenal, I would ability to find these people, and in that comfort, both and to confront them and to All of which is to say that an accomplished scientist, But he has also become one of leaders on the planet. And if there's anything the essence of Lex of learning, his desire to share and to broaden that experience In many ways, our discussion captures the many although no conversation, of We sit down to the after Lex returned from placed himself into the in order to understand the and to understand happening at the level of the You may notice that he carries and knowledge and understanding. And yet in a very you'll notice that of his own experience around and view them through so that first of all, everyone so that everyone learned is to gain new perspective. Our discussion also ventures and how that the way that science and We also get into the topics of both finding it and executing I should mention that this is Podcast. And I would be remiss that there would be no were it not for Lex Fridman. I was a fan of the long before I was ever invited And after our first was the one that suggested He only gave me two The first piece of advice And the second that I not just make it me and staring at the camera. So I can safely say half of his advice, and that both as a friend, a and now fellow podcaster for start this podcast. I already mentioned covered on today's podcast. But I can assure you that that many of us If you are somebody interested engineering, or robotics, is most certainly for you. And if you are not, who is interested in world the human experience, and the collective Lex shares what can as incredible insights as the human experience and what from our time on this planet. Before we begin, I'd that this podcast is separate roles at Stanford. It is however, part of to bring zero cost to about science and to the general public. In keeping with to thank the sponsors Our first sponsor is LMNT. LMNT is an electrolyte drink and nothing you don't. That means the electrolytes, and magnesium are in LMNT But it has no sugar. As I mentioned before electrolytes are of every cell in the the cells in your brain, Indeed, the ability to be active and communicate depends on sodium, You can get electrolytes But it's often hard to get even from food. So if you're somebody who's or if you're somebody a low carbohydrate or even a that will cause you to I tend to have my in the morning when I wake up of waking, any time while or I've sweat a lot, such If you'd like to try LMNT that's LMNT..com/Huberman to pack with your purchase. Again, that's drinkLMNT, sample pack. Today's episode is also Levels is a program see how different foods affect real-time feedback on your monitor. Now blood glucose or blood of your immediate and indeed, your and mental clarity and One of the key things is to know combinations and is impacting blood glucose. And with Levels, all of that in real time. I tried Levels. And what it taught was that I can eat certain But if I eat them at I get a blood sugar crash. It also taught me, to space my exercise It turns out for me, exercising That's something I And it's completely just the spacing and timing but also use of things like It's been a tremendous that's really shaped an enormous that have led to me feeling mental focus and physical So if you're interested in and trying a continuous go to levels.link/Huberman. Again that's levels.link, Today's episode is also Eight Sleep make smart mattress and sleep tracking capacity. I've talked many about the critical relationship temperature. That is in order to fall throughout the night, needs to drop by And conversely when we that is in large part, by 1 to 3 degrees. Now people have different And they tend to run colder or Eight Sleep allows you of your sleeping have the optimal temperature sleep. I started sleeping on cover about eight months ago. And it has completely I sleep so much deeper, during the middle of and I wake up feeling far even after the same If you want to try to eightsleep.com/Huberman to fit holiday bundle, which Eight Sleep currently Canada, United Kingdom, and Australia. Again, that's And now for my discussion with LEX FRIDMAN: It's good This feels like a porn set. I apologize to open that way. I've never been in a porn ANDREW HUBERMAN: Our So here we are for the of episode 100-- LEX FRIDMAN: Episode Podcast, which was inspired Some people already But I'll repeat it again There would not be a were it not for Lex Fridman. Because after recording a few years ago, he that I start a podcast. And he explained And he said, &quot;You But just make sure blabbing the whole And I only sort of LEX FRIDMAN: Yeah, surprised the world, that and cite some of the and be able to without many interruptions I mean, that takes an that you're probably born with. And some of it is developed. I mean, the whole science Stanford is proud of you. So yeah, it's a beautiful thing. It was really surprising. Because it's unclear do a great podcast shooting the shit but really is giving very that's boiling down the into something that's So that was impressive. It's like holy shit, he And doing it every week I mean, I'm usually for people I love and support. But damn, I thought, he's going to be able to pull And it's been only getting Had a whole rant on a recent of how awesome you are She's a emotion recognition And then she didn't And I was like, what And I just went on this whole Is hilarious. ANDREW HUBERMAN: Well, I'm I'm-- it's a little but listen, I'm just really information that they like And it was inspired by you. And look right back at you. I've followed a number of Attire, I don't wear a tie. I'm constantly reminded LEX FRIDMAN: Yeah. ANDREW HUBERMAN: Who says And he was like, why like your friend Lex? He literally said that. And it's a debate that But nonetheless-- LEX FRIDMAN: How does it feel? Episode 100. How does it feel? ANDREW HUBERMAN: LEX FRIDMAN: Can you You hear after so many I mean, the number of The amount of of work you put into ANDREW HUBERMAN: It feels great. And it feels very much at the same distance Every episode, I just try And the process that we We won't go into it of distilling it down walking around, trying to figure out and then-- as just like you, or anything like that. There's very minimal notes. So it feels great, And again, I'm just grateful And I just want to keep And I should say that we're sitting here because to a very intense war zone, And the entire time I was genuinely concerned. The world's a unpredictable And we don't always get the only So first of all, one peace, one alive peace. And what was that like? I mean, at a broad level, what drew you there? What surprised you? And how do you think it changed LEX FRIDMAN: I think But first, it is One of the things to a difficult part of the world going through you really appreciate how Everything. The easy access to food. Despite what people think, the The lack of corruption in that a business or if you take that there's not going to of your efforts such So this kind of the ideal of capitalism is in this country. And it really makes you And also just the ability to across generations. So you can have your in Kentucky in a certain city. And then his children lived and then it just That's the kind of thing you can Because war destroys And it destroys like life stories that stretch So-- ANDREW HUBERMAN: Yeah yeah. I didn't even think about But photographs, hard drives LEX FRIDMAN: Yeah. ANDREW HUBERMAN: Libraries. I mean, nowadays, things but are still a lot of-- LEX FRIDMAN: Yeah. ANDREW HUBERMAN: that are irreplaceable, right. LEX FRIDMAN: Well, even in rural they don't exist in A lot of people still, well, love the physical photo A lot of people still of families in the VHS tapes and But I think-- there's so many felt the lessons. One of which is nobody gives a and all that kind of The thing time and time that lost everything is how They love the friends, the That's the only thing That, in fact, they with much dramatic sort of losing your home. They're just non-stop saying person Y is still here. And that makes you realize it's still-- it makes you realize which is the people I mean, a lot of people kind when you're facing mortality, or you get a cancer I think people here in with the fires, you you You are going to It doesn't really matter. It's a pain in the ass the family, the I think the most intense thing-- I talked to several hundred is recorded. I've really been because I have to And so you're talking about 30, ANDREW HUBERMAN: Is LEX FRIDMAN: Yeah. ANDREW HUBERMAN: Are you LEX FRIDMAN: It's So I talked to a The number two in the I'll be back there to to do a three-hour conversation. Those are easy to edit. They're really heartfelt from different perspectives But the ones that is like grandmas that are They lost everything. They still have hope, And some of them have-- some of them, many of have now hate in their heart. So in February, when this is the thing I One of the most is that war creates We sometimes think about war kills civilians, kills injures people. But we don't the secondary and of that which lasts decades. Which is anyone who's lost or a daughter or a son, the individual that invaded their country but So it's not that they or hate the Russian military. They hate Russian people. So that tears the that, for me-- my half half of my family But there is-- I remember the pain the still resonates through And so, you remember when fought together against You remember a lot of that. And now, to see the fabric completely with hate is really, just to realize that be the same on this particular But also, there's so many things will never be the same. Which is we've seen that a major hot war in I think a lot of people China is watching this. India is watching this. United States is watching this have a large-scale war. And I think the lessons Might be the kind that lead in the 21st century. So one of the things I realized is that we don't know to happen in the 21st century. And it might-- we kind of have there's not going ANDREW HUBERMAN: Like LEX FRIDMAN: Yeah. ANDREW HUBERMAN: Yeah. LEX FRIDMAN: Yeah, pandemic. Yeah-- ANDREW HUBERMAN: LEX FRIDMAN: Back to normal-- ANDREW HUBERMAN: LEX FRIDMAN: But you at the end of World War I, the war to end all wars. Nobody ironically, it was also the roaring 20s There will never be And 20 years after that, A charismatic leader the minds of a military that can And so it makes you realize This is still possible. And then the tension. You see this-- the media machine, that I've gotten It's still fueling that division Between Russia and India. And then Africa has that's trying to figure who are they against. And just this tension is And like it makes you the thing that might may not be so far off. That's a realization I mean, there's all And one of which is propaganda. Is I got to-- I get a lot of letters, emails. And some of them are full full of hate from Or, well, the hate is side X. And X stands as a So either I'm a Zelensky or I'm a NATO show, America show-- Or I'm a Democrat Because it's already been, I think there's a sense of full of corruption. Why are we sending money there? I think that's kind on the Republican side. On the Democratic side-- I'm not even keeping track and the conspiracy theories but they are-- the And I get to feel it directly. And what you get to is there's a large that all are extremely know the truth. People are convinced, that they're not being lied to. People in Russia think They think that, like state-sponsored smart enough to ignore the lame They know that we can think and everybody kind of Everybody in the well, yes, there's they're full of messaging and We can think on our own. Of course, we see through that. Everybody says this. And then the conclusion is often hatred towards some And the more you've intense the feeling of hatred. It's a really through calmly and and try to understand ANDREW HUBERMAN: That's the only words that You mentioned something that It's against an entire Why do you think it is that may or may not generalize? LEX FRIDMAN: I've as you can imagine, the is, do you have love It's a question I And then I would dig that you're asking. I think some of the most heard which is people are able to They know they shouldn't feel It's not-- they know that helps them and helps everyone but they can't help it. They know. It's like a drug, they it's like a vicious spiral. You just can't help it. And the question I think you'll ever be And after much thought almost-- it's split, but most I will never be able to forgive. ANDREW HUBERMAN: And because you talked about earlier, that LEX FRIDMAN: All Russians. ANDREW HUBERMAN: they mean all Russians. LEX FRIDMAN: Because that's as bad or worse that invades. So the people that are the good Germans, the people on with their lives, you're is their perspective. ANDREW HUBERMAN: that going over allowed you to of the positives of being I have a good friend. We both know him. I won't name him communicated the tier-one Special Operations. He spent years Really amazing individual. And I remember when the pandemic you know, Americans aren't used with their plans. Around the world, familiar with governments with their plans. Sometimes even in a Here we were not I mean, we get speeding to vote and things like that. But I think the pandemic at least in my life, that I seemed like the government was wanted to do. And that was a shock And I have a what might mundane question, that I saw on social media. A lot of people were and I was curious about too. What was a typical Were sleeping in a bed, were Everyone seems to want to know. What were you eating? Were you eating once a day? Were you eating your steak? Or were you-- were you in fairly I saw a couple photos of doors in front of rubble. With pith helmet on in one case. What was that typical LEX FRIDMAN: So One of them-- I spent which is much safer than-- it may be obvious to state it's in the middle and it's much safer The word the battle So much, much safer is Lviv which is the So the times I fundamentally different than And I went to the which is where a lot of really There's several areas. So there's Kharkiv. It's in the Northeast And then there's Donbas region, And then there's Kherson I'm not good at geography, so And that's where, at was a lot of really So when I was in it's what you would imagine. The place-- I stayed in a have to stay off. So the entire town, You have to navigate and use your phone ANDREW HUBERMAN: This is system. LEX FRIDMAN: Yeah. LEX FRIDMAN: That's exactly-- I was this-- how can I do this? Where's my element How can I function? No. There's I think it was balanced of being alive. [LAUGHTER] ANDREW HUBERMAN: this is the reason LEX FRIDMAN: Stress-wise. ANDREW HUBERMAN: I ask is we get used to all LEX FRIDMAN: Yes. ANDREW HUBERMAN: And but we often come in a way that makes us LEX FRIDMAN: Yeah, there's something about that you see in people's living through a war that makes comforts. And it was actually-- I'm somebody who hates I love the creature habits. I love-- I love the but all of that was Just the intensity of love that people have for In terms of food-- so there's a curfew. So depends on what But usually, you basically have So the hard curfew in a lot of But by then, you So-- in some places, it's 10:00. So at 9:00 PM, you Which, for me, was also because I get to spend-- I get to be forced to spend time in wherever I'm staying. Which is really nice. And everywhere there's a to the whole thing. In terms of food, once a day. Just the food is incredibly People are still-- they can still take pride possible food they can. So meat-- but they do so the meat is not as great as But I ate borsch every day, Mostly meat. So spend the entire day-- wake up in the spend the entire day Which for me is very of the intensity of the story. It's one after the We just talk to regular talk to politicians, I talked to people there who Americans. I hung out with Tim Kennedy. ANDREW HUBERMAN: Oh, yeah? The great Tim Kennedy. LEX FRIDMAN: The great also him and many one of the many an American is how trained American soldiers are. ANDREW HUBERMAN: I guess for we should familiarize Tim Kennedy is because I will know, but-- LEX FRIDMAN: How do you do that? How do you try to ANDREW HUBERMAN: Right. We can be accurate as any good data are Very skilled and accomplished and accomplished former American Patriot, and Does he have his own podcast? LEX FRIDMAN: Maybe. ANDREW HUBERMAN: OK. ANDREW HUBERMAN: We know Andy LEX FRIDMAN: Yes. LEX FRIDMAN: Which is Yeah, Andy's great. ANDREW HUBERMAN: Yeah. Clearing Hot podcast LEX FRIDMAN: But is like the embodiment of and the most ridiculous degree. So he's like what you imagine-- what is it, Team America? I just imagine him into enemy territory at the top of his lungs. That's just his personality. ANDREW HUBERMAN: He actually does the LEX FRIDMAN: So He really embodies that. Now, some of that is just I'd like to sort of comment not just with him. There's very one other But also when he's he's extremely good which is building go into the most dangerous areas anywhere else, and And one of the things I which what's really that Ukrainian soldiers said Russian, and American are the bravest, which was to hear given how for the Ukrainian soldiers. But that just enables you to be brave. So it's not just about how well it's how intense and ferocious And it makes you realize, not just through the technology, guys. They're still one of and terrifying And listen, just somebody who is, for the most But you get to see some of the you up to what needs to get to protect some of the values, and all that kind of stuff. Sometimes war has to happen. And I should also because while I haven't gotten yet I do fully plan to travel to I was very upfront with I would like to hear But I do know from the Ukrainian I love grandmas. They told me stories that the ones that entered their believed they're saving from Nazi occupation. So they feel that of Nazi organizations they're saving their brothers and sisters. I think propaganda and I think to arrive with in that war zone. I think in the 21st you realize that so much of war, is an information war. And people that just use Twitter might be surprised to know is on Twitter, like real and so it's really hard And through all of that you and ultimately and listen to actual That's the other is that war is waged by and it's the poor And that's just visible ANDREW HUBERMAN: You mentioned enjoy food or the or there's occasional humor I know Jocko Willink has in that all the elements of still emerge at various times. I find this amazing, have had conversations but the aperture of the mind. The classic story is the one of Viktor You put somebody into a and some people break and other people within a centimeter can occupy them, real stories or fascination and surprise. And I find this so interesting We talked about creature of creature comforts and and yet, humans are it seems, or one would hope, to better their conditions. So as you've come back-- and you've been here for how long after your trip? LEX FRIDMAN: Depends release but it felt left, so practically ANDREW HUBERMAN: OK. Yeah. And we won't be shy. We're recording LEX FRIDMAN: We actually so we're anticipating ANDREW HUBERMAN: going to start telling you this I'm still trying to figure I'd like to take a quick one of our sponsors, Athletic Greens, now called AG1, drink that covers all of your I've been taking Athletic so I'm delighted that they're The reason I started taking I still take Athletic Greens, is that it gets that I need for gut health. Our gut is very important. It's populated by communicate with the brain, the all the biological to strongly impact our and those probiotics are optimal and vital In addition, Athletic a number of adaptogens, that make sure that all of my are met, and it tastes great. If you'd like to try to athleticgreens.com/huberman travel packs that make it really while you're on the road, in the and they'll give you a year Again, that's to get the five free travel of vitamin D3, K2. I know I speak for I say that we are very We know that it's not going that there will be be going to Russia as well as well in order to explore. And I have to say, as a I was really inspired at and your sense of but thoughtful, You understood what You weren't just going there or something. This wasn't a kick or a thrill. This is really serious So thank you for doing it, bring Tim Kennedy again. LEX FRIDMAN: I feel like will take you because going to the most dangerous So I think he'd get me into And I should mention there's many reasons I not something I take ANDREW HUBERMAN: Right. LEX FRIDMAN: So I'm doing I just feel like I have to. ANDREW HUBERMAN: LEX FRIDMAN: So I now I'll definitely talk There's different are seeing a lot of suffering. Yemen. There's so many atrocities but this one is just I feel like I'm qualified So most of the talking, it was in Russian. And so because of the language, I felt like I had to do I think it's, in many ways, was made clear to me. But I do many things because the heart But also there's I'm afraid of death, but I it's almost like, want to take full advantage of I feel like when you a responsibility for others more conservative and careful. I feel like I want to of this particular when you can be a little ANDREW HUBERMAN: Well, reproduce at some point. Maybe before next time you LEX FRIDMAN: I-- ANDREW HUBERMAN: Really, that-- LEX FRIDMAN: Is that what Is how that works? ANDREW HUBERMAN: You There's always an opportunity You know that there are and there are actually a few at how cold exposure can but it doesn't happen Good scientists, as the authors realized that it's the the vasodilation. As people warm up again to the testicles, seems there's probably to the reproductive organs as So that seems to cause some of the various cells, the of the testes that output of testosterone and in So the cold exposure in do you do the ice bath? Are you into that? LEX FRIDMAN: I've ANDREW HUBERMAN: As a that a hot tub. LEX FRIDMAN: Yeah, exactly. Yeah. It's a nice thing to have fun to warm up. No, I haven't done that. Been kind of waiting with you at some point. ANDREW HUBERMAN: Great. LEX FRIDMAN: Because ANDREW HUBERMAN: It'll be I always say that the and so if you just like you're going through a as opposed to going for time, With your jujitsu you'll immediately recognize Even though it's it's the adrenaline want to hop out of the thing. LEX FRIDMAN: And So Joe set up a or it's not even a cave It's like a network But it has a ice bath and ANDREW HUBERMAN: We have one of So we'll have to get you LEX FRIDMAN: Sounds ANDREW HUBERMAN: Maybe No, although there is a-- I don't know the underlying but there does seem to telling in the sauna. Some people will refer Mine's a barrel sauna Who knows why? Maybe under intense feel compelled to share. LEX FRIDMAN: Well, I have with saunas because of ANDREW HUBERMAN: Oh. LEX FRIDMAN: Some of sorry to interrupt-- I've done was in the sauna. It's very-- I mean, I've gone because, I mean, I wrestled and those weights cuts So you're-- truth telling. Yeah, it's a certain telling because and the clock moves slower than Yeah. So I usually, for would try to have a bunch of that kind of stuff, and run. It's easier because you In the sauna you can't It's just and all the excuses in your mind just and you're just sitting there That's the worst. ANDREW HUBERMAN: And talk You're in a small box so it also even if you're not That's absolutely true. And the desire to just is where you get a pretty from in the sauna as well. Now, the sauna actually will-- it won't deplete testosterone So for people that-- sperm are on a 60 so if you're trying because that's what or fertilize an egg or dish or in vivo, as we say well, you can look it up, folks. The 60 day sperm cycle. So if you go into or a hot bath or a those sperm are going to be-- a significantly will be dead, will So there's a simple solution. People just put ice pack down but a jar of cold fluid between or they go back and bath and the sauna. But you probably-- if you're you should freeze sperm. We're going to do a couple it's relatively inexpensive. And you're young so because there is a association It's not a strong one. It's significant but it's to the autism phenotype. LEX FRIDMAN: As you age There's no science to back that? ANDREW HUBERMAN: No, but men at a considerable age. But in any case-- but no, they don't get wiser. What happens is interesting-- LEX FRIDMAN: Finely aged steak. ANDREW HUBERMAN: Well, it's a of the brain in the sense get much better at swimming get less good. Motility is a strong correlate LEX FRIDMAN: This is to announce that I'm I wanted to see how much that-- ANDREW HUBERMAN: Oh my goodness. LEX FRIDMAN: Riding ANDREW HUBERMAN: Well, your and my future children, are since I've only done so I'm strongly vested LEX FRIDMAN: Yes. ANDREW HUBERMAN: But only LEX FRIDMAN: Well, yes. Friendly competition Yeah. Dominance of the clan. Yep. For sure. ANDREW HUBERMAN: So moving with our minds in the Ukraine. Did you encounter any scientists As we know, in this country science takes infrastructure. You need buildings, you need you need a lot of equipment, and you need incubators and you need technicians. And typically it's been that have been able to of research and development Certainly the Ukraine had and marvelous scientists. What's going on with science And gosh, can we even that is occurring as a LEX FRIDMAN: So science goes on. Before the war Ukraine had which means engineering and Kyiv has a lot of and they still go on. The biggest hit, I the infrastructure but the fact, because everybody is joining So everybody is to fight, including you, Andrew and not because you have And everybody you know that you're fighting, to convince, Andrew have much better There's deep honor in fighting but there are better ways to than just picking up a gun that and going to the front. Still, they do it. Scientists, engineers, ANDREW HUBERMAN: Men and women? LEX FRIDMAN: Actors-- Obviously, primarily Much more than you would women are-- everybody. Everybody wants to fight. Everybody's proud of fighting. There's no discussion Should we be fighting? Is this right? Is this-- everybody's So there's this that pulls everything, into the war effort that's psychological. So it's like if you're a it feels almost like by continuing to do things There's a lot of people that They literally watch of how to shoot how to arm a drone If you're a tech to work with drones so use whatever skills you got, you got and how to use them to And so that's a big hit. But that said, I've talked faculty primarily in the so I didn't get a chance are on the biology, chemistry, but that still goes on. So one of the really is that they're able to maintain supply, all that kind of stuff, going on, especially in Kyiv. The war started whether Kyiv was going to be It was surrounded. And a lot of experts from Russia would take And one of the really one of the things I is that a lot of people before the war. He only had about A lot of people But one of the as a leader, which I'm not be able to do, is when Kyiv chose to stay. He stayed in the capital. Everybody, all the American agencies, NATO, his own staff, and he stayed. And so I think that was a for the universities, for the infrastructure and that kept the There's an interesting social I think for folks who control in this is one of the decisions is to give guns to everybody. Semi-automatics. ANDREW HUBERMAN: LEX FRIDMAN: Early So everybody got a gun. They also released from prison because to keep the prisons running. And so there's a psychological experiment of, Everybody has a gun. Are they going to Are they going to of a chaotic situation? And what happened is So it turned out that worked wonderfully. ANDREW HUBERMAN: That's a LEX FRIDMAN: Yes. ANDREW HUBERMAN: Or We don't know if it's of initiative for common LEX FRIDMAN: Yeah. I don't-- right. I think that's very correct hate that was unifying people. It was love of country, It's probably the same thing aliens invade as well. It's the common effort. Everybody puts everything Plus just the sheer amount You realize, well, a self-correcting mechanism very was also put aside, right? Basically the police because everybody else kind of taking the law That system, at least in this particular moment It's an interesting ANDREW HUBERMAN: It is. I had an interesting contrast because you mentioned Texas. So not so long ago I often visit you or others And many doors that I walked said no firearms It was a sticker on the door. You see this on I saw this at Baylor College Relatively common not so common in California. And then I flew to the was walking by an elementary and saw a similar and it said, no peanuts containing foods past of this elementary school. So quite a different Now, peanut allergies, for some people, although of Stanford showing that can prevent the allergies. But don't start rubbing yourself if you have a peanut allergy. That's not the best In any case, the dangerous, the contrast of versus no familiarity. In Israel and elsewhere you see In Germany, Frankfurt, you see Not so common in So again, I feel like there's There's this aperture of comforts and lack of and then there's this People who are are familiar with people their firearm on the table But if you're not accustomed LEX FRIDMAN: I should mention-- people know this but the human ability get used to violence So you could be living like we're here now, and like a 9/11 type of situation. That would be a huge shock. It's terrifying. Everybody freaks out. The second one is a huge drop And in a matter of it becomes the normal. I've talked to so many which is one of the towns that's You ask them, is it safe there? In fact, when I went to the-- closer and closer to the is it safe? And their answer's usually, ANDREW HUBERMAN: It's LEX FRIDMAN: Nobody has told sitting in the West it's really dangerous here. Everyone's like, My uncle just died yesterday. He was shot. But it's pretty good. The farm is still running. How do I put it? They focus on the But there's a which is just get used and the stuff that and the stuff that is relative to that new ANDREW HUBERMAN: Well, and there were a I remember the '89 the Embarcadero on top of people and cars. I remember I moved to there was a Northridge quake. Wherever I move there I never worry about I just don't. In fact, I don't they cause, but every once roll through and it's It sounds like a It's like, wow, like You know? Again, I don't want but I enjoy a good rumble It's signal to noise. But if I saw a and people from the Midwest Dan Gable, the great that you know and I've great respect for, he's and is like, ah, yeah. Maybe. Yeah. You know? So I think signal Before I neglect, forget, speaking of signal you are returning to one of your original which is the Massachusetts is-- LEX FRIDMAN: Natural ANDREW HUBERMAN: It's actually MIT, right? So you've been spending some other things. Tell us what you're up LEX FRIDMAN: Well, I'm being on the West Coast, know New York. I feel like a lot of people ANDREW HUBERMAN: It's the Bostonians and New Yorkers. LEX FRIDMAN: They ANDREW HUBERMAN: Oh my goodness. LEX FRIDMAN: Yeah, I love it. I gave lectures there in ANDREW HUBERMAN: What LEX FRIDMAN: For the of AI and robotics, machine So for people who know the they usually don't and people from outside AIs. The biggest breakthroughs learning field with some and so on. Yeah. It was in person. It was wonderful. I'm a sucker for that. I really avoided teaching during COVID because people on but also got comfortable and I think nobody enjoyed it. Except there's a notion do because you don't You can do it in your But when you actually you don't get the that you do when As a student you don't get the It's not as effective and So to be in person together to get their excitement, to the interactions, And I'm still a sucker and a of the University. I think it's an There's something But it really hit-- the pandemic hit and I can say this. This is not you saying it. This is me saying it. That administrations-- when people criticize the pandemic has given more and taken away power from and that's from including the administration. That's a concern is about the teachers That should be primary. And whenever you have an opportunity to increase One of the things that and I'll scream from about this is they've instituted Which is if you're a visitor you have to register. You have to, first of all, but more importantly, there's You need to get One of the reasons I loved MIT, MIT just leaves the In classrooms you can roll The students that business stuff or economics and just-- you're but it's a gray area and that creates a flourishing was beautiful. And I think adding extra rules some of the some of that as we kind of let go of was created by the pandemic. As we kind of enter some of that But when you're actually it was magic. I love it. I love it. ANDREW HUBERMAN: Well, some on your YouTube channel were That's how this all started. LEX FRIDMAN: Yeah. Yeah. That's how YouTube-- is terrifying, right? ANDREW HUBERMAN: at the time when you did it. Again, you're a You did that, Jordan Putting up lectures is-- yeah. I teach still. Every winter I teach-- direct a course, and I'll going forward. But the idea of those yeah, that spikes my LEX FRIDMAN: Yeah. It's terrifying and everybody has a For me being a junior the kind of natural And when I was giving I don't deserve any of this. ANDREW HUBERMAN: That's your and I actually on the part of an because those that think that could give this lecture? Then I worry more. I once heard-- I don't true-- that at Caltech, Institute of Technology that many of the afraid of the students. Not physically intellectually afraid because And teaching there can I've heard. But that's great. Keeps everybody on their toes. And you know, I've been before at Stanford When my lab was at UC San hey, wait, last lecture you said or on the podcast. You know? And I think it's that feel that urge to defend and and I think it depends My graduate advisor was I don't know, all the time. And she went to Harvard, Brilliant woman. And had no problem LEX FRIDMAN: I don't So I usually have two guys grab them, drag them out of So everybody is You don't understand that the I get is-- ANDREW HUBERMAN: Especially when and everybody seems to be No, I think that I'd love to I know very little about AI, But-- LEX FRIDMAN: Have you Have you ever given lectures? ANDREW HUBERMAN: Oh, yeah. When I went on the job market choices were between I had an on-paper offer. Wonderful place. Wonderful place to And UC San Diego, which is a In the end it made on the West Coast but there's some amazing Goodness. And that's always been true It's been a long time since Oddly enough when I started and I still run a lab but I as I've done more podcasting-- I've received fewer invites, which makes sense. But now they're And so when people say, do you want me to talk and its role in or do you want me to And my big fear is to give a lecture about and I'll start off with or something like Just kidding. That wouldn't happen. But listen, I think to keep a foot in both places. I was so happy to teaching at MIT because teaching is another, and in the Venn diagram. But listen, the students on one of your may see me sitting soon when I creep LEX FRIDMAN: In sunglasses. ANDREW HUBERMAN: That's right. Wearing a red shirt. You won't recognize me. Are certainly I've watched your lectures on and listen, I know you to LEX FRIDMAN: Yeah, so I'm also doing-- I stayed up pretty working for a One of the things for hopefully the rest of my and I think it's really even if you continue the podcast on your own intellectual as you do podcasting. At least for me, and especially because I want to think that keeps keeps you humble talk too much on a microphone you might lose track comes from engineering and the scientific process and all that kind of stuff. ANDREW HUBERMAN: And how We have two papers right now and it's been a very long road. And I was asked this recently He said, do you want to you just going to go And Stanford has been very as I know MIT has been of you. And I said, oh, to continue to be involved And when you start and we're looking over my-- and looking back these papers have been in So it's a long road but and the more time you at a bunch of data the more you I totally agree. Talking to these is wonderful because it's fun. It relieves a certain itch that lands some important information but doing research is the-- I guess if you know, you know. There's the unpeeling knowing that there could There's just nothing like it. LEX FRIDMAN: I mean, you do-- especially with the pandemic. And for me, both have made me much more of the review process because-- ANDREW HUBERMAN: LEX FRIDMAN: Twitter will. But even with podcast you'll find something cool and you'll just say them and ANDREW HUBERMAN: Then we do a that we both found interesting Yep. LEX FRIDMAN: And something, like there science of posting stuff that don't get annual review, go through the review process start using them if it's code. And it's like, what's It works. It's self evident that it works and that I think applies because it's an actual It doesn't matter if-- you don't that it works. It works because it's ANDREW HUBERMAN: Well, sorry for point of reference, describing the earned Watson and and should have earned Rosalind of course, but they got it for That paper was never They published it because its or whatever. They decided-- LEX FRIDMAN: So the editors. ANDREW HUBERMAN: It was that I believe. I mean, that's what I currently an editor at Nature. If that turns out someone will tell us in LEX FRIDMAN: Well, I think-- ANDREW HUBERMAN: That's LEX FRIDMAN: That's ANDREW HUBERMAN: Perhaps the in biology and was leading to of course, of the last LEX FRIDMAN: Yeah, but-- so Eric Weinstein, have talked about I don't think people understand process is. Just the amount of-- review it means all the and they review your and it's usually a And they have a very so they might not be the if it's super novel work. ANDREW HUBERMAN: And it's I'm on a bunch of Why, I don't know, but I and sending papers out. Oftentimes the best and don't have time to review. And oftentimes the will select from a kind good scientists who are sometimes the people are It really depends. LEX FRIDMAN: And both If you're very close jealousy, and all those Very far from the appreciate the all that kind of stuff. ANDREW HUBERMAN: And Sorry to interrupt again, but extremely successful Howard Hughes always told me that they-- I won't even say whether They select their of who has been publishing assume that that more benevolent because well so that the love expands. LEX FRIDMAN: That's a good But the idea is that be the best reviewers, so that the thing I wanted to mention about, that back several much more power. And there is something to be are the ones who are responsible They really are and they're also It makes sense for a bit of power in this case. Usually if an idea is truly And so it makes to have more power Of course for me, should be done the which is crowdsourced ANDREW HUBERMAN: Let LEX FRIDMAN: Let and let the crowd add depth for the contribution. So if the paper overstates the crowd will If there's not enough support supported by the evidence, the There could be, of course, that enters the on very controversial think I trust the to figure that out. And I think most of us this whole process out. I just wish it was because on the important cycle could be faster. And we learned that Twitter was at doing science communication. It was really interesting. Some of the best to communicate their own and always putting that it's not peer reviewed and and the data just moves so fast. And if you want Twitter is the best medium It's cool to see. ANDREW HUBERMAN: I'd like and thank our sponsor, InsideTracker is a that analyzes data to help you better and help you reach I've long been a believer in for the simple reason that your immediate and can only be analyzed from The problem with a tests out there, however, back about metabolic and so forth, but you don't InsideTracker and makes it very easy what sorts of nutritional, supplementation you might want to to adjust the numbers of those lipids, and other your immediate and long those numbers into the and, indeed, optimal for you. If you'd like to try insidetracker.com/huberman to or 34% off the entire site as through the end of November. Again, that's and use the code I'm now on Twitter and initially it And I remember you and I used to conversations where I'd say, And you'd say, I don't And of course, we and how to work each but I think we were both what is driving the psychology because they are quite distinct reason. I think I'm finally starting it a little bit. Initially I wasn't of reflexive scrutiny. It sounds a little but that people pick and then drive it It didn't seem to be happening but I love your tweets. I do have a question and how you-- do you have sort you'll put up and won't put up? Because sometimes you'll are about life and reflections. Other times you'll put up excited about in point to various podcasts but others as well. How do you approach Not in how do you on there in terms of how I know you've talked But you know, what's your when you go on there to either to information? LEX FRIDMAN: I think not the sound cliche, but some into, as OJ Simpson I think there is this viral and I try to find the right there. And it's actually because there's something about I can't quite put but whenever I talk about childlike in my curiosity start to think, surely he There's dead bodies This must be a fake-- ANDREW HUBERMAN: LEX FRIDMAN: It's the attic? ANDREW HUBERMAN: The attic. LEX FRIDMAN: I keep That's the details. ANDREW HUBERMAN: I was I don't have an attic or a I just want to be very clear. LEX FRIDMAN: Yeah. I do have an attic and actually Maybe there is bodies up there. But yes, I prefer the basement. It's colder down there. I like it. No, but there's an assumption or it's disingenuous And so I try to find the of stuff, how to be positive. Some of it I was really inspired Not all of it, but I found that silliness-- I think it's Hermann Hesse one of my favorite writers-- ANDREW HUBERMAN: Yeah, same. LEX FRIDMAN: I said, learn what is and laugh at the rest. I think I try to be laugh at the absurdity when I'm serious, try to to see a positive perspective. And also, as you said, and so on and they attack me over certain usage I think the thing I try to do is like do not escalate. So whenever somebody's I just smile. If there's a lesson to and then I just send Don't respond, and through karma and through the have an impact on them and And what you find your actions create So how I behave gets me But lately, especially Ukraine I also thought somebody who reached out who's extremely controversial. From the perspective of a lot ANDREW HUBERMAN: and I know that there's a lot Maybe you could familiarize me. I've been pretty nose and I tried to do this four weeks. LEX FRIDMAN: I've ANDREW HUBERMAN: Yeah. And it sort of worked. I did get some time in by myself, which was great. I did get some downtime. But in any event, it mainly LEX FRIDMAN: And nature? ANDREW HUBERMAN: Reading working out, good food, these kinds of things I But I am pretty to the kind of but I've heard his he's been deplatformed Do I have that right? LEX FRIDMAN: Yeah, he's admit that while I might it's not by much. So it's like a to a four-year-old right now. ANDREW HUBERMAN: Is he LEX FRIDMAN: So basic summary, a kickboxer, I believe. Was pretty successful. And then during I think he was on and he had all these programs artist advice. He has this community of on how to pick up women, how to how to make a lot of to enter those programs. So a lot of the criticism it's like a pyramid scheme to join so that they and then they convince others But that's not why I'm I'm interested because maybe I should mention who, but really a big scientist, said and 12 really look up ANDREW HUBERMAN: Is it male LEX FRIDMAN: Male. And I hear this So he is somebody that a lot of So I haven't done I usually try to avoid doing and then I go deep. But there is an he talks about women that, while certain dynamics in and he's one such him being really disrespectful it's not how I see what So the conversation I is about masculinity. What does masculinity And so when I think and because we're it's like going into a war zone. I'm a happy go ANDREW HUBERMAN: You're but I don't want to have LEX FRIDMAN: Because really tricky one because when you do a podcast, It's everything Maybe you'll say the wrong and you can correct yourself. With Andrew Tate, with Donald you have to-- I mean, it's a I think you have You have to be really eloquent. You have to be also empathetic do what journalists to the person the entire time. That's easy. The hard thing is to to understand them, to but also to make your own case. So in that case about what a strong man is somebody Not out of weakness, not out signaling, and all that kind what a strong man does. They don't need to be their position in life. He is often-- now, a lot of He's being misogynistic. He's being a misogynist as a purposes. ANDREW HUBERMAN: LEX FRIDMAN: Yeah. But to me, that avatar has a so the character has impact. ANDREW HUBERMAN: you can separate the in terms of the In fact, there are on Twitter and Instagram and only revealed their first another name or they're And part of that, I from some of these individuals I understand as an attempt to is important to many people. And in some cases so that and then just pop up else without anyone knowing LEX FRIDMAN: Some of-- I've been reading a lot about so the '30s and and you get to see how to evil quickly. One of the things I worry-- one of the things to see on Twitter is how many statements It's like you think just because or is funny or is it also doesn't have a So that's such a because some of the best but it reveals some important But sometimes comedy for destructive have to know the line Hitler was seen as a joke in in Nazi Germany until the You have to be careful between the joke and the I mean, in a conversation-- I'm just such a big to be able to reveal something but I don't know. One of the big-- you and I challenge I don't know if I to have a good, empathetic, ANDREW HUBERMAN: I need to learn or not learn about them. Yeah. It sounds like maybe I don't know because, again, I'm But I was going to you've seeked out you would ever consider on your podcast. LEX FRIDMAN: Yeah, I've and I really believe I can have Trump, but I haven't seen many So part of me thinks-- part of me believes but he often effectively ANDREW HUBERMAN: You could an element in Athletic Greens. LEX FRIDMAN: Just relax. ANDREW HUBERMAN: conditioned black and a different Context is powerful. LEX FRIDMAN: Well, Joe's which is relaxing the person. Like here, have a drink. Smoke a joint, or But this energy of and there's laughter and so on. I don't think-- as not good at that kind of stuff. So I think the way I could have is to really understand be able to steel and those that support him. Which is, I'm sorry who seem to hate Donald Trump, of the country. And so you have to really You have to empathize with and from that perspective, ANDREW HUBERMAN: is the counterpoint to seek balance in your guests. If you're going then you have to have who on? LEX FRIDMAN: Well, ANDREW HUBERMAN: to be strongly associated in the eye of the public. I think he's retiring soon, but. LEX FRIDMAN: Yeah, So that's really Yeah, definitely, but I don't He's a complicated, who seems to have attracted but also-- ANDREW HUBERMAN: And LEX FRIDMAN: And love. ANDREW HUBERMAN: And I mean, I know people, not who have pro-Fauci shirts. I've seen people with anti-Fauci but who adore him. There are people who adore are people that adore Trump. It's so interesting that you get such divergent LEX FRIDMAN: It by design and every single topic fascinating to watch. I mean, I got to really witness in Ukraine, where there is There was in certain parts of across the world there between Russia and Ukraine, overnight, this intense hatred. You see the same kind of stuff At first we were all There is a togetherness Of course, there because you're isolated. But then you start probably the politicians and how can I take a side now start reporting on and say how the And so I think Anthony Fauci as a scapegoat as part of that kind of But I think-- so Trump is to me, represents something I'm not sure what you have to think-- you go forward in time, How will he be remembered 20, Who is the opposite of that? You have to-- I would really have because Trump was so singular. I think AOC is an but she's so young it's if she represents a legitimately Bernie Sanders is an but I wish he would be The young Bernie ANDREW HUBERMAN: There are LEX FRIDMAN: Yeah, I think so. ANDREW HUBERMAN: Not LEX FRIDMAN: Well, yeah. Maybe him. We never know. There is a big conspiracy that that's a body double. It's no longer him. ANDREW HUBERMAN: LEX FRIDMAN: No, no, no, no. ANDREW HUBERMAN: I'm having a LEX FRIDMAN: The conspiracy That the Putin we see on ANDREW HUBERMAN: Well, and in particular, a classification scheme for which they either say you're Some people like to call a not necessarily but for a lot of reasons. And then other people like into multiple names. And of course, people used to structures after themselves. So that would be the nucleus of or whatever. Less of that nowadays. And by the way, those structures We haven't defined those yet. I was making those names up. But what's interesting is it years, there's been there's been a trend, excuse for lumping. You can't say-- it seems that to say, hey, yeah, you know-- and here I'm not stating my-- I will never reveal about pandemic related things Some people will say Or vaccines and masks, And other people will say, And then other people will Let everybody work. No one was saying no vaccines, I don't think. So there's this sort The boundaries around did start to defy science. I mean, it wasn't scientific. It was one part science-ish really hardcore science. Other times it was I mean, we really of all these different that use very different I mean, as a when the vaccines asked somebody, one I had that was actually how does this thing turn off? If you start generating get turned off? So I asked a friend, they And I said, you know, They explained it to me and I asked some other questions. But most people aren't at that level of but it did seem kind of amorphous that they grabbed on there was this need for It was almost felt like it to want two of the things from from that menu. I really felt like I by a kind of like where I didn't get to define I could either have Bento but nothing in between. LEX FRIDMAN: And I and I think a lot of are in the middle with and they're just kind of And I think there is just the nature of this division. So I think it's the in our individual if you have a I think you have to try to walk and humility. And that's actually what science I'm still thinking about ANDREW HUBERMAN: Well, I mean, maybe Fauci is I mean, not everything I mean, maybe he's he's in the minority was an outsider from Washington LEX FRIDMAN: But also I wonder-- you have to pick your battles you should take very seriously. And just the amount I got, and I still get with the Pfizer CEO, that was ANDREW HUBERMAN: Oh, that LEX FRIDMAN: Yeah, it ANDREW HUBERMAN: Because you guests on from time to time. LEX FRIDMAN: Yeah, that one-- ANDREW HUBERMAN: Is he LEX FRIDMAN: I believe so. ANDREW HUBERMAN: CEOs This is the thing In science if somebody moves Most people don't have more maybe. But they often move to the But it in biotech-- it's like have a former from San Diego and then he's a CEO there. He went back to a company He's probably back we worked at for all I know. It's amazing how much It is a very LEX FRIDMAN: Yeah, in certain companies, I guess the CEO is more of like a jumping around benefits so you become better and There's some leader that stick around for so critical to like the Microsoft Sundar Pichai is Obviously, Elon Musk is is part of pivoting a company but yeah. In biotech there's a machine. In the eyes of a lot of people, It's the epitome of everything It's evil, right? And so I showed up where I thought with and really asked what I questions of him. I don't think he's ever sat In fact, I'm pretty sure because of that, and was hot in the room and I was asking For somebody that half the of the country believes he's helped, through the financial helped alleviate a lot of And so I thought for I was asking pretty Boy, did I get to usually one of the sides is So there are certain like with Andrew I would hear from a very-- it would probably be that would write very angrily. And so that's a group The Pfizer CEO, I didn't from people saying, why He's an incredible human, of a company that helped that nobody thought would be ANDREW HUBERMAN: You did not LEX FRIDMAN: I did not. I mean, here and there, that said everything weak that I wasn't able how do you sit down, how do how do you make him look And you have to deal with that. You have to-- of It's great because I have to is like, did I? You have to ask I love criticism like that. You get to-- I had some low points. There's definitely some despair was I too weak? Should I have talked to him? What is true? And you sit there alone Hopefully over time but I still don't know what the ANDREW HUBERMAN: Well, I feel When people think think billions of dollars-- maybe even trillions And certainly people who make a others don't. Part of it is that they are but I think that there is and I'm not justifying it. I certainly don't know some people who some people who are very poor. I can't say it scales People are always but that's what I've observed But that people who are often held to a because people resent that, and maybe there are I mean, among people oftentimes the wish Not money. You get a bunch of and unless one of also has immense status typically if you put a with a bunch of all talking to that person. Right? And there are many very But status is something that is with money, but is a much out there, a if one considers status positive So I wonder whether or not the because people assume also, that his LEX FRIDMAN: Yeah. So because I have a I can answer it. It's a very good hypothesis. Let's test that scientifically. ANDREW HUBERMAN: He's about to but it's wrong. I know the smirk. I know the smirk. LEX FRIDMAN: I honestly That effect is there but I think the distrust The distrust is One of the really had to do, which is just having at every level, from they're all really nice people. They have a mission. They talk about trying because that's the money is to come that helps a lot of people. The mission is clear. They're all good people, a lot PhDs. So you can have a system including the CEO. And by good, I mean are trying to do everything. They dedicate their And yet, you have to think from a path that does good yourself of what is good, where money does come into where you convince yourself the more good you'll And then you start to focus on making more money, and then track of what is actually good. I'm not saying necessarily but I think companies You can apply that criticism to big pharma companies. One of the big lessons for me-- I don't know what the answer inside the company you would want to you would want to work with, That's a possibility. So the distrust I don't think individual, which I do I think it's Wall that the machinery of this has gone off track. ANDREW HUBERMAN: It's the LEX FRIDMAN: Yeah. And then good luck This is the tough stuff. But I should say individual scientists are just incredible people. They're really brilliant people. I never trust the administration no offense, business people. But the scientists They have the right But again, they can Too focused on the science. Nazi Germany has a just too focused on the politicians use the whatever end they want. But if you just look narrowly it's a beautiful one in it for the of discovery versus money. I mean, prestige probably does but especially young scientists. They're after the-- pulling at the to try to discover They get excited by and it's beautiful to see. ANDREW HUBERMAN: It I have a former now a postdoc at know she had a cell phone. She would come in the lab, put and she was But that wasn't why She was productive as a side committed and the answers to the asking as best she could, and You could just feel the low activation energy. If there was an experiment to You're teaching at MIT. You are obviously you're right on the podcast recently, which is interesting. I don't play chess but-- LEX FRIDMAN: Oh, I have to you about that. ANDREW HUBERMAN: Oh, OK. Sure. Let's get to those for sure. And then-- LEX FRIDMAN: You're ANDREW HUBERMAN: Oh, no. OK. And then also some very-- do I have to spell LEX FRIDMAN: Of course. ANDREW HUBERMAN: to have a proclivity for finding right? You're thinking about Tate, we're talking about the Pfizer These are intense people. And so what we're we're not doing in the traditional sense of What we're doing as the great Karl Deisseroth, LEX FRIDMAN: Thank you for that. Thank you for connecting us. He's an incredible person. ANDREW HUBERMAN: He's an bioengineer, and human and your conversation I listened to it twice. I actually have taken notes. We talk about it We really do. His description of missed, I'll just because if I try and say But we're getting map of at least a portion So what else is going on as it relates to robotics, AI? Our last conversation and the potential for Even what is a robot, et cetera. Are you still working on robots is science showing up in your already talked about? LEX FRIDMAN: So I we talked was before Ukraine. ANDREW HUBERMAN: Yes. You were just about to leave. LEX FRIDMAN: Yes. I mean-- ANDREW HUBERMAN: So I was like, you the last-- you said you before or after. I was like, come I want to see you before you go. But here you are in the flesh. LEX FRIDMAN: So a lot of-- just a lot of my mind has with that part of the world. But most of the that I'm still going through the company that and the company I mean, it's maybe a but the ultimate dream is But short term I see of launching a and it's a nontrivial leads to robots in the home. But it's basically that fuel effective robots that you can form And so I've been really-- yeah, but struggling that if I were to be critical, ANDREW HUBERMAN: Or the time. LEX FRIDMAN: Well, ANDREW HUBERMAN: I think I mean, it's clear if you'll CEO and you're considering fellow on your podcast and that you have the guts. It means not doing quite LEX FRIDMAN: That's what I mean. It does take-- the thing when you fill your that busyness becomes an excuse the things that scare you. A lot of people use You know, my wife, When in reality some of the most and have kids and have And so a lot of times we can with-- yeah, of course, I have podcasts And they make me happy and and there's research, But all of that can just serve that my heart says is and that's why I don't to say no to and then to focus all out. Because part of it is at anything in my life found a comfortable place. With a startup it's most likely going to an embarrassing failure. ANDREW HUBERMAN: Well, that I'm aware of-- I don't know a lot but within the realm say that a failure is optimal for Whether or not that translates isn't clear, but getting seems to be optimal seems to be optimal and it seems to be optimal on average, right? I'm sure I'm going-- you have more machine that listen to your podcast but it doesn't mean you have sets, folks. I mean, it could be 16%. No, I'm just kidding. It's not exact, but it's a LEX FRIDMAN: I think a would literally murder I think given all the the skill set, the funding, my chances are relatively But what relatively high is still far, far below 85. You're talking about Most startups fail. ANDREW HUBERMAN: Well, the decision to focus on the means the decision to close from all these other things that of dopamine. Not that everything is is, I think, the primary If you know that you can get from scrolling social media of coffee, that's what That's what you're going to invert the algorithm it's actually my drinking that coffee that's Right? LEX FRIDMAN: Oh, interesting. ANDREW HUBERMAN: And of having a forebrain is that This is the essence, of what we see of David Goggins. There's much more there. There's a person that none of course. But the idea that the pain The limbic friction, as I is the source of dopamine. That runs counter to how but it's decision based, right? It's not because his or he had CRISPR or something. It's because he decides that. And I think that's it means in terms of and changing priorities is or many of the current so that you can derive within this narrow a very reductionist view of what we're talking about. But I think about this a lot. I mean, the decision to choose is a decision to close down So I think that the off the menu versus others those other hatches. So I think that you It's just a question of, LEX FRIDMAN: Yeah. Remap the source of ANDREW HUBERMAN: Right. And maybe go out there the-- the journey is the but when you're financially and as far as I one life, at least and you want to spend LEX FRIDMAN: And a lot of the people are really don't have people around me that It's very difficult to ANDREW HUBERMAN: Is Austin LEX FRIDMAN: Yeah, it is. It is. But it doesn't make sense This is what the people have been telling me, what you're doing right now. Just do the thing you ANDREW HUBERMAN: Why that because they you're apt to go against them? LEX FRIDMAN: No. Actually, I was never Unfortunately, I need-- I've talked to people I love, friends. I'm one of those people that for difficult things. I know myself coaching so here's how I Let's say wrestling. I like a coach that says, They will not-- if the gold medal at the wrestling I want a coach that and believes that I is viciously intense and If you want to do Right? But that's support. That positivity, I don't-- I'm never-- I'm not energized, a person saying-- basically criticizing that. Saying, you're too old to win Or all the things That's not helpful to me or I haven't yet, a dopamine Basically people that are to prove them wrong. It never got me off. It never-- ANDREW HUBERMAN: Whereas some I mean, David Goggins He seems driven by many sources. He has access-- I don't know because but if I were to I'd say that he probably inside his head as how to Not just overcome pain, about the fact that this or people will do this approach. He'll also talk approach that's purely involve anyone else. Great versatility there. LEX FRIDMAN: Yeah. There's literally yells that represents wants him to fail, bitch and all kinds of things I'm not. There's always an enemy and I mean, I wish-- maybe that's something. I mean, it's really interesting. Maybe you can remap it this that's a kind of Construct an amorphous wants you to fail, right? That's kind of the And that blob says you're you're too old, too whatever, and getting you And then you start getting and maybe that's I haven't personally ANDREW HUBERMAN: Well, I've I was a postdoc, very several prominent were working on the and I was just working on a project from the lab I was in. And there was was plenty of room for everybody and frankly, I won't And because there was some and a little bit of healthy scientific friction-- yeah, I might have pushed a little bit. I have to say, it It felt catabolic, right? I couldn't be sustained by it. And I contrast that with that my laboratory on stress and human performance, It's pure curiosity and love. I mean, there are hard no adversary in the picture. They're the practical LEX FRIDMAN: That was the thing and people do create in podcasting because you get-- YouTubers do this. They hate seeing somebody There's a feeling of see that as healthy. Mr. Beast is somebody, some how do they get 100 million ANDREW HUBERMAN: Mr. according to him, he's been focused on becoming LEX FRIDMAN: Well, that, but there's some famous for doing much less than Mr. Beast. People become famous and and it's easy to One of the early things being a fan of his he celebrated everybody. And again, maybe I ruined but I don't get energized by In the podcasting it doesn't-- it's awesome. All of it is awesome and But the problem is that's Inspiration is like, oh, This is beautiful. But it's not-- I'm looking. I'm looking for a That's why I gave away I was hoping my bank That would be a forcing You know? And you're not allowed so I wanted to launch-- and then the podcast So it's like, goddammit. ANDREW HUBERMAN: Yeah. Yeah. Well, and here I have You are so good at what you and you're excellent at I just have less I know here I'm taking for many, many people I sure as hell hope you But as your friend who cares very deeply about satisfaction, if it's to do a company, well then, LEX FRIDMAN: And a lot categorize as happiness. I don't know if you have but I'm probably the happiest ANDREW HUBERMAN: LEX FRIDMAN: But a longing for the nothing to do with happiness. It's something else. ANDREW HUBERMAN: That's that itch. LEX FRIDMAN: I'm pretty sure a really tough process. I mean, to whatever degree from struggle, yes, maybe. But I don't see it. I think I'll have some There's a lot of people found companies know about. And I also want to I want to get married, a startup is not the likelihood of that. ANDREW HUBERMAN: We and start a company. LEX FRIDMAN: Well, that's a-- I'm a huge believer is get in a relationship in your life, which is-- [LAUGHTER] ANDREW HUBERMAN: Sorry. I'm not disputing your stance, It's just every once a Lex Fridmanism that hits a I have to just laugh out loud. LEX FRIDMAN: I just easy to have a relationship The relationships that become are the ones when ANDREW HUBERMAN: Well, then Before we sat down I was with my podcast I wouldn't say avid, rather he's and finds these amazing and unique episodes. Anyway, we were talking that he had seen and read and he was talking about career, and a calling, right? And I think he was from conversations of CEOs I forget the specific brought this to light for him. But that this idea that you can make an income, and or not hate it too much. A career represents a a kind of series of can go through-- junior But a calling has a whole to it because it and it includes this It's very hard to draw the line and a calling in the So the question, you feel a calling or is it more of a compulsion Is it something you or is it something that LEX FRIDMAN: No, I It's a calling. It's a calling. ANDREW HUBERMAN: LEX FRIDMAN: It's like when I first and it became even stronger the I interacted, with And you're like, does anyone else see this magic? It's kind of like maybe like that feeling. Does anyone else that just walked in the room? I feel that way can elaborate what that can convert it into words. I just feel like the of robots in society will create And our ability to when we look at a robot and when we look at a robot is don't yet experience, everybody will experience And I just want to be that because it hasn't been The best roboticists are not currently working They try to avoid human and nobody's really in terms of when you All the big tech companies the closest thing and basically being a servant or play music and so on. It's not trying to And so sometimes you Not only do I notice the magic. There's a gut not to speak to because but I feel like I can be good of the robot. And there's no data that but there's a feeling. It's just a feeling. Because I've done I love doing playing guitar, I've never felt that feeling. When I'm doing the magic of the genius At guitar I don't But I've noticed that in they notice the magic and they ran with it. And I just always thought-- I think it had a different existed, before I existed. The form was more about I think of it as love, but have towards each other And people would be excited and notice each other, that they share that I was like, wow, that's It is really interesting separate intelligent able to connect all of a sudden It's like, huh. It's just beautiful to see, And then when I started a period, but then programming that could be-- that's not just between That could be humans and and robots. And so I-- for some reason when I saw robots. So yeah, it's a calling. But it's a calling that I can the vision of a future world, of full of cool stuff, or I can And being part of doing the hard work is like raising funds from now, is the easy part, and I don't know how much you know ANDREW HUBERMAN: Hiring LEX FRIDMAN: will define the your company, but your whole And building it up, not they all depend on you, with an opportunity that brings joy to people. And all of that fires that you have to put out. The drama, the having you've never worked with like and supply chain. And because this is the computer infrastructure, cybersecurity, because you're So now you have to understand of data and the privacy, how with data, but also the you with their data. And how, if you look at Mark and those folks, by a large number of people. ANDREW HUBERMAN: Jack seemed-- I didn't-- LEX FRIDMAN: Much less so, yes. ANDREW HUBERMAN: I think I individual, but-- LEX FRIDMAN: Well, yeah, you of the world, yes. ANDREW HUBERMAN: I like Jack a someone close to him recently as he's an That's what they and that's my Very private person so But listen, I think one of the greats of and is just much quieter than a lot of people. But much of what we see in I think we owe him I'm just voicing my LEX FRIDMAN: And the person. This is really important. ANDREW HUBERMAN: Yeah. LEX FRIDMAN: A wonderful a good person, to pay the price of making as the head of a company. You don't get any extra bonus ANDREW HUBERMAN: But his and deal directly and say, to that in some cases. But to deal directly with some to me earned him LEX FRIDMAN: Yes. As an individual. He was still part of him-- you've said-- OK, and I interact with him often. ANDREW HUBERMAN: He's LEX FRIDMAN: Yes. But he's also part of a and I would argue that Jack else with him on that podcast. If you go-- ANDREW HUBERMAN: He had a cadre of-- LEX FRIDMAN: Oh, he had I And also it requires a to go on a podcast and be able to win over by being able to be how the company really works about how a social the more you open the vector of attacks increases. Also, there's a lot of of censorship and that if you make you're going to get an order So you have to make all and I think that's one of is you have to take that hate if you make mistakes. ANDREW HUBERMAN: Well, you of this architecture in order to create a company. Of course, there's I mean, you don't have to do but finding people that to run the critical I'll just say what which is if it's in your heart's if that, indeed, and it sounds like it LEX FRIDMAN: Does the I don't know. What's that ANDREW HUBERMAN: Probably not. LEX FRIDMAN: We ANDREW HUBERMAN: In my lab we worked on cuttlefish, and but they pump green Very fascinating animal. Speaking of hearts earlier today solicited four questions on LEX FRIDMAN: Do you want to-- ANDREW HUBERMAN: If you'll-- LEX FRIDMAN: --look ANDREW HUBERMAN: Yes, let's My podcast team is always have any charge on my phone. I'm one of these people that or whatever it is. LEX FRIDMAN: An iPhone? ANDREW HUBERMAN: Yeah. LEX FRIDMAN: It's funny people are out of battery. It's weird. ANDREW HUBERMAN: Well, LEX FRIDMAN: So weird. ANDREW HUBERMAN: I mean, this I just got a new one so for different things, I'm trying that now. All right. Get into the-- LEX FRIDMAN: I have a chess ANDREW HUBERMAN: Will I insult you if I look up LEX FRIDMAN: No, no. But I will insult you by asking think it's hilarious. So there's been a controversy Hans Niemann, who ANDREW HUBERMAN: Oh, yeah. LEX FRIDMAN: --was ANDREW HUBERMAN: I saw that By the way, I love but I listen to LEX FRIDMAN: The big accusation I mean, it's half getting me to wonder whether-- so that you can cheat by having can send messages to-- ANDREW HUBERMAN: Well, let's Not you can, but one can. LEX FRIDMAN: One can. One can. ANDREW HUBERMAN: LEX FRIDMAN: That was But it made me realize, I mean-- ANDREW HUBERMAN: I'm just going here. LEX FRIDMAN: I use for podcasting to to remind myself of notes. But it's interesting. I mean, it-- ANDREW HUBERMAN: I'm not LEX FRIDMAN: Yeah, that's It did get me down this how would you be able to to cheat in different sports? I mean, that doesn't even have but it's interesting that there's mechanisms you're streaming live can watch it on TV. If they can only send it's just a fun little and if it's possible So I wanted to get your ANDREW HUBERMAN: To of interoceptive device? LEX FRIDMAN: Yeah. Vibrating of some kind. Yeah. Or no, no. That's one way to send basically. ANDREW HUBERMAN: Yeah. So there's a famous-- I believe there's story of physics students-- I'm going to get so I'm saying this in so that somebody But I believe it was physics Cruz or somewhere else, a bunch of universities it with any one university and used some sort of tactile This was actually not this particular in the movie Casino I remember Robert have a not so vague resemblance LEX FRIDMAN: God, I wish I had Travis Bickle. ANDREW HUBERMAN: Travis Bickle is if Lex ever LEX FRIDMAN: I would. ANDREW HUBERMAN: So he had a that was signaling. Someone else was counting to that person. So yeah, that could be It could be done, if it's deep earpiece. I think there are ways Certainly any kind in whatever orifice provided to that while still Yeah, I think it's Now, could it be Could there be and listen, it wouldn't have This is where whenever people machine interface oh, you have to drill and put a chip below I think there are people with glucose monitoring devices, and it was very informative as a kind of an experiment. Gave me a lot of interesting regulation, how it reacts to Well, you can implant below the skin with Actually, one of the I know well because he through my laboratory and he actually has put in a and his wife has it too. And he can open locks like that, so he's been doing-- LEX FRIDMAN: Under the skin? ANDREW HUBERMAN: Under the skin. You can go to-- LEX FRIDMAN: How does that work? So how do you use-- ANDREW HUBERMAN: A piercer. You go to a body and they can just and it's got a battery and some fairly long duration. LEX FRIDMAN: How do you the haptics of it? ANDREW HUBERMAN: Oh, no. That just allows him to his hand, but you could easily in there. LEX FRIDMAN: But does it or is it just like-- ANDREW HUBERMAN: LEX FRIDMAN: And sense it even if it's ANDREW HUBERMAN: And can be Bluetooth linked. I mean, I've seen-- Laboratory at the University that's got an amazing about the size of a Band-Aid. It goes on the sound waves pinged into the Think about this for a moment. This is being used in let's say, you're leading People are getting shot, you can see where the Are people dead? Are they bleeding out? Entry, exit points. You can get-- take it out You can get breathing, body There's so much that you can So these same sorts of could be used to send Maybe every time you're I'm not a good gambler when I go to Vegas because but you get some good mileage usually. But maybe every time the person gets a because this is stimulating and they get a little So it doesn't have It can be yes, no, maybe. Right? It can be green, red, It doesn't have to be very a significant advantage. Anyway, I haven't thought before this conversation there's an immense landscape. LEX FRIDMAN: I don't a poker player named Phil Ivey? ANDREW HUBERMAN: No, I don't LEX FRIDMAN: Well, to be one of the of all time legitimately. He's just incredibly good. But he got-- there's he was accused of and it's not really is what's really fascinating. Is it turns out-- so he plays poker. Texas Hold'em, mostly, It turns out that the grid is often printed a and so you can use the to try to figure So if you play and you remember I think the 8 in that deck that were slightly different So he can now ask to rotate it to So you would ask the dealer there's-- to detect the of the card, and now he 8's and 9's or likelier to be that information to play But it's just a And his case is-- and found this, that he's but it's not right. You can't use this kind So it's fascinating that you in games if you pay ANDREW HUBERMAN: Yeah. It's fascinating. And I think that I about the potential of a and the fact that a admit to cheating at some Very, very interesting. LEX FRIDMAN: Well, So online cheating When you're playing in a game where the machine it's very difficult to And that applies, by the is in social media, the bots. If you're running a you have to deal with the one of the really in machine learning and is the very fast improvement So neural networks that interpret text, that and all that kind of stuff. But you're now going to look awfully a lot like humans. ANDREW HUBERMAN: not going to be those seem to populate my comment on Instagram. I actually delete those to the comment roster and if-- they bother me so much. I spend at least 10, 15 minutes those. I don't know what but I'm not interested it is they're offering. Speaking of nonbots, that all the questions There are a lot of more than 10,000 questions. Goodness. I'll just take a few, What ideas have you been And I think about but as I scroll to the LEX FRIDMAN: Well, some of which is the ideas of how what is true about a human how to reveal that to challenge that to understanding not derision. So that applies to to Vladimir Putin. Also another idea is there's in trying to understand-- the trying to understand what's that have a foot in the how to regain some Also, there's-- as we talked yeah, how to find and how to I mean, that's really been-- I've never felt have this year with Ukraine. It's just like, so many and just feeling so deeply alone not my home literally I'm a proud American. I'll die an American. But my home in the my family's home, is now going-- has been changed forever. There's no more being proud of or Ukraine. It's now a political to show your pride, and so And within that world, with how do you find a It has been tough. But obviously-- and of technical ideas like, how the hell do ANDREW HUBERMAN: Well, is one we talked a and last time we touched on We're going to come back to What or who inspired a suit every time you podcast? That's a good question. I don't know the answer to that. LEX FRIDMAN: So there's two One is a suit and two is because I used to do-- I used to have more variety, a black suit but do a red tie and a blue tie. But that was mostly me because varieties-- you're What inspired me at first that doesn't take in terms of how you present So in academia, at Google, everybody was wearing In the tech. I don't know how it in the chemistry, But in computer science I mean, very relaxed in wear so I wanted to try seriously and take every and everything I do made me feel that way. I don't know how it looks, And I think, in terms to that wore a suit that made Richard Feynman. I see-- ANDREW HUBERMAN: He was LEX FRIDMAN: I see him as the and brilliance, and come close to that kind of-- be able to simply explain and to have humor and wit, And then there's that whole era of the '50s, There's something both removes the importance You see the person. I think not to-- I forgot who said this. Might be, like, Coco Chanel Is that you wear a shabby dress You wear a beautiful dress So in that sense it was-- hopefully I'm quoting ANDREW HUBERMAN: Sounds good. LEX FRIDMAN: I think a simple, classy suit on your character and then do of that, this is who I am. Yeah. ANDREW HUBERMAN: I love you said just prior to that. My father, who, again, why I don't dress formally said to me growing slightly, at least people know So it's a sign of respect for Someone asked, is there an AI And I'm assuming they that machines can do to alter their neural circuitry activation patterns. LEX FRIDMAN: Yes, obviously. Well, I don't know exactly but you can see that with now with Dali and the generates from text, art. It's basically a small into a system that has of visual information. So it is able to convert text to into that noise into that. That's kind of maybe. I could see that as a and it's able to create From a conceptual it can create incredible could have at least through a bit of Randomness does a lot of work Just enough. ANDREW HUBERMAN: There are for relationship, about statistics about you, Flipping past those, to achieve in jujitsu? I would have assumed but is that actually true? LEX FRIDMAN: No. I mean, everybody has through jujitsu, as people know. For me, the black belt which is not usually the case, I trained twice a day for I seven, eight years. I competed nonstop. I competed against people I competed against many and brown belts. I think, for me personally, was the brown belt because, the size of tournament divisions is just humongous. Like Worlds, when I competed 140 people in a division, I forget how many times, in a row to medal. And so I just had to put in a And especially for competitors, really make you earn a belt. extremely difficult. to earn the brown to compete nonstop against other You're talking about-- the are, like, 23, 24, incredible cardio. They can, for some reason, are no kids, nothing. They can dedicate so they're training two, Diet is on point. You're going-- and for me, and taller than me and actual good athletes, yeah, I to earn that brown ANDREW HUBERMAN: I got to LEX FRIDMAN: Yeah, you should. But it's a different-- ANDREW HUBERMAN: I did the one class, but I LEX FRIDMAN: As you know, are different if you're doing it It's like it's a different-- you're not-- you can have a You can have that but you should be more later in life. ANDREW HUBERMAN: That's the wisdom. LEX FRIDMAN: I think He still goes hard and super competitive on Jocko is somebody like that. ANDREW HUBERMAN: doing they're doing something in it, and that's There were far too many but several, if not many, asked for where we are in the And this is one, admittedly, all the time, but I of being in the question And so, what is your LEX FRIDMAN: So I just and the amount of love I And so of course, who undergrads, maybe young one person did ask for advice I did a bunch of Q&amp;A. So my tell you to find a work-life to try to-- try different fields connect with, variety, that kind of stuff. And I said in your should find one thing and work harder at that than in your life. And if it destroys That's advice for in your 20s. I don't know how universally but I think at least Sacrifice, real sacrifice really care about, That said, I've and I'm starting to applied or best tried in especially programming. I think there's a bunch of can achieve success and it's much more have a clarity of and have an energetic mind. The grind in certain disciplines I just know that in computer it often does. Some of the best people ever have programmed systems are kind of people that drink 18 hours a day. So I don't know actually. You have to, I think, really So my advice applies which has been mostly and for that you really, really And what that means it feels like a grind. I do recommend that you should That if you interview some of ever, I think if they're going to as a journey of a lot of pain I think what really is a lot of those successful will talk about They'll say, you from that process is that it's sun in the morning, to have good relationships. ANDREW HUBERMAN: Hire a chef. LEX FRIDMAN: Yeah, a chef. Exactly. But I think you have forgotten the value took to that lesson. I think work-life balance is My own perspective. There are certain things you and so you should learn Yeah, so that's And I should say that I If you want to get I think there are the they got towards something. It doesn't actually is, but towards achieving That's the highest thing that I think is excellence ANDREW HUBERMAN: I love it. Well, speaking of Whether or not it's teaching or the company that that you create-- once again, I'm speaking for that excellence and hard through everything that you do. Every time I sit down with with such an immense feeling and gratitude, and it wouldn't or in case of Lex even if the word love weren't So the feelings of gratitude for taking the time here today doing, your thoughts, you're perplexed about and what LEX FRIDMAN: Can I read a poem? ANDREW HUBERMAN: Yes, please. He was trying to That was getting a little long. LEX FRIDMAN: No. No, no, no. I was thinking It's one of my favorite because I wrote several because I think it's a Essays being, like, trying and it's one that I mean, both its calm beauty, of what it means because I so &quot;Stopping by a Woods I think it's ultimately asking the old Sisyphus, the I think this poem, doesn't seem like it is a with suicide and Whose woods these His house is in the He will not see me stopping with snow. My little horse to stop without a farmhouse near lake, the darkest He gives this to ask if there's some mistake. The only other sound's the sweep The woods are lovely, but I have promises to keep and miles to go before I sleep. The woods representing the comfort of the woods and he's a man choosing to live. Yeah, I think about that often, is you have promises to keep. Thank you for having me, Andrew. You're a beautiful human being. I love you, brother. ANDREW HUBERMAN: I Thank you for joining me today Fridman, and special thanks to me to start this podcast. If you're learning from please subscribe to That's a terrific zero In addition, please subscribe and on Apple, and on you can leave us up If you have questions about topics and me to include on the please put those in the I do read all the comments. In addition, please mentioned at the beginning That's the best way to During today's episode we but on many previous episodes we do discuss supplements aren't necessarily many people derive for things like enhancing augmentation and so forth. The Huberman Lab with Momentous are of the very highest quality In addition to that, they have that allow you to devise the most effective and most If you'd like to see the on the Huberman Lab to livemomentous.com/huberman. If you haven't already signed zero cost neural we invite you to do so. It's a monthly summaries of podcast episodes into simple form. You can sign up by going to hubermanlab.com, and look for Newsletter. You supply your email, but we do And as I mentioned is completely zero cost. And if you're not already we are @hubermanlab @hubermanlab on Twitter, and and at all of those science and science related physical health, and overlap with information covered but often which is distinct on the Huberman Lab podcast. So again, that's @hubermanlab and Facebook. Thank you, again, for joining me Fridman, and as for your interest in science. [MUSIC PLAYING]