Hello. I'd like to show you guys (Applause) So that was El Capitan and in case you couldn't tell, I was climbing by myself without a rope, a style of a climbing That was the culmination and in the video I'm over Seems scary? Yeah, it is, which is why I spent so many years and not actually doing it. But on the day that that video was taken, it didn't feel scary at all. It felt as comfortable and natural which is what most folks Today I'd like to talk about and how I overcame my fear. I'll start with a very brief version and then tell the story They were both successful, (Laughter) But the first felt largely unsatisfying, whereas the second, El Cap, was by far Through these two climbs, So I started climbing in a gym which means that my life for more than 20 years. After nearly a decade I made the transition to the outdoors I built up my comfort over time and slowly took on And there have been so I had plenty of But by 2008, I'd repeated and was starting to imagine The obvious first choice was Half Dome, an iconic 2,000-foot wall that The problem, though also the allure, was that it was too big. I didn't really know how to prepare So I decided to skip the preparations and just go up there I figured I would rise to the occasion, which, unsurprisingly, I did at least climb the route just to make sure and that I could physically do it. But when I came back I decided that I didn't I knew that there was a 300-foot variation that circled around I suddenly decided to skip the hard part even though I'd never climbed it before, but I immediately began to doubt myself. Imagine being by yourself wondering if you're lost. (Laughter) Thankfully, it was and I circled back to the route. I was slightly rattled, but I tried not to let it because I knew that all the hardest I needed to stay composed. It was a beautiful September morning, I could hear the sounds of tourists They'd all hiked up which I was planning on using But between me and the summit There were no cracks just small ripples of texture I had to trust my life to the friction and the smooth granite. I carefully balanced my way upward, shifting my weight back and forth But then I reached a foothold Two days ago, I'd have just but that would have been with a rope on. Now it felt too small and too slippery. I doubted that my foot I considered a foot further to the side, I switched my feet and tried It seemed even worse. I started to panic. I could hear people laughing I wanted to be anywhere but on that slab. My mind was racing in every direction. I knew what I had to do, I just had to stand up on my right foot. And so after what felt like an eternity, and I stood up on the right foot, and it didn't slip, and so I didn't die, and that move marked the end And so I charged from there And so normally when you summit Half Dome, you have a rope and a bunch and tourists gasp and they This time I popped over the edge I was amped, but nobody batted an eye. (Laughter) I looked like a lost hiker I was surrounded by people I felt like I was in a mall. (Laughter) I took off my tight climbing shoes and that's when people stopped me. &quot;You're hiking barefoot? (Laughter) I didn't bother to explain, but that night in my climbing journal, but I included a frowny face I'd succeeded in the solo and it was celebrated Some friends later made a film about it. But I was unsatisfied. I was disappointed in my performance, because I knew that I had I didn't want to be a lucky climber. I actually took the next year or so because I knew that I shouldn't But even though I'd already started to think about El Cap. It was always in the back of my mind It's the most striking wall in the world. Each year, for the next seven years, I'd think, &quot;This is the year And then I would drive into Yosemite, &quot;No frickin' way.&quot; (Laughter) It's too big and too scary. But eventually I came to accept that It represented true mastery, but I needed it to feel different. I didn't want to get away with anything This time I wanted to do it right. The thing that makes El Cap is the sheer scale of the wall. Most climbers take three to five days to ascend the 3,000 feet The idea of setting out with nothing but shoes and 3,000 feet of climbing represents thousands of distinct which is a lot to remember. Many of the moves I knew I'd climbed El Cap maybe 50 times But this photo shows my preferred I'm on the summit, about to rappel down the face to spend the day practicing. Once I found sequences I had to memorize them. I had to make sure that they were that there was no possibility of error. I didn't want to be wondering or using the best holds. I needed everything to feel automatic. Climbing with a rope You just have to be strong enough But free soloing The physical effort is largely the same. Your body is still climbing the same wall. But staying calm when you know that requires a certain kind of mindset. (Laughter) That's not supposed to be funny, (Laughter) I worked to cultivate that mindset which basically just means imagining Partially, that was to help me but mostly visualization of each hold in my hand and imagining the sensation of my leg I'd imagine it all like a choreographed The most difficult part of the whole route It was about 2,000 feet off the ground and consisted of the hardest long pulls between poor handholds This is what I mean by a poor handhold: an edge smaller than the width that I had to press up into with my thumb. But that wasn't even the hardest part. The crux culminated in a karate kick with my left foot over to the inside a maneuver that required a high degree enough so that I'd been doing for a full year ahead of time to make sure that I could comfortably As I practiced the moves, my visualization turned of a potential solo. Basically, what if I got up there What if I was too tired? What if I couldn't quite make the kick? I had to consider every possibility so that when the time came and I was there was no room for doubt to creep in. Doubt is the precursor to fear, and I knew that I couldn't experience I had to visualize and rehearse But beyond that, I also if it never seemed doable. What if, after so much work, What if I was wasting my time and I would never feel comfortable There were no easy answers, but El Cap meant enough to me Some of my preparations were more mundane. This is a photo of my friend Conrad Anker climbing up the bottom of El Cap We spent the day climbing together to a specific crack that was choked with loose rocks that made that section because any missed step and kill a passing climber or hiker. So we carefully removed the rocks, and rappelled back down. Take a second to imagine to climb 1,500 feet up a wall (Laughter) It's never that easy to carry It's even harder on the side of a cliff. It may have felt silly, I needed everything to feel perfect if I was ever going to climb After two seasons of working specifically I finally finished all my preparations. I knew every handhold and I knew exactly what to do. Basically, I was ready. It was time to solo El Cap. On June 3, 2017, I woke up early, ate my usual and made it to the base I felt confident as I looked up the wall. I felt even better as I started climbing. About 500 feet up, I reached a slab very similar to the one that had but this time was different. I'd scouted every option, including I knew exactly what to do I had no doubts. Even the difficult and strenuous I was perfectly executing my routine. I rested for a moment and then climbed it just as I had My foot shot across to the wall and I knew that I had done it. Climbing Half Dome had been a big goal and I did it, but I didn't get what I really wanted. I didn't achieve mastery. I was hesitant and afraid, and it wasn't But El Cap was different. With 600 feet to go, I felt like the I climbed with a smooth precision and enjoyed the sounds of the birds It all felt like a celebration. And then I reached the summit after three hours and 56 minutes It was the climb that I wanted, Thank you. (Applause)