If you are one of the tens this Thanksgiving, you may have noticed Domestic airfares are averaging near $284. That's up 9% from the same time last year. That's according to travel booking And the news doesn't get much better because ticket prices to popular about 20% from Thanksgiving 2023. Joining us now is travel expert He is the founder of the Points Kayak.com. Brian, great to have you on this day. Let's start with points. So many people, they will be traveling How do people use loyalty programs Yeah, points are the key. You know, the airlines gouge last minute But you'd be shocked So my number one availability That means a website that will actually you want to go. So if you've got credit card points point me will actually show you And they just sent me a bunch of deals. You can go for New Year's New York to Bermuda and even Europe. And if you want to actually buy flights, So Google.com slash flights, and you can put in your home city or put in Europe, and it'll pull all fares Yeah, New York to Bermuda. Sounds really nice right about now. Talk to me a little bit about I mean, there are, of course, personal who warn that chasing points Yeah. So using points is incredible and get your points back for free. In most major programs, unlike airlines, maybe, and have change fees. Using points is like buying So that's what Even if you're at the airport getting delayed and you might be canceled pull out your points, Even if you don't end up you can cancel And but to your point, if you can't pay it off you pay will negate the value Is there a good rule of thumb, Brian, travel tickets? I feel like every time I wonder, wait, Like, what is that rule? A good rule of thumb is 4 to 6 weeks and basically three months. 2 to 3 months and prior for international. Now, note the airlines will take advantage of you They charge a premium, but most airlines mile awards for most of their flights So if you can plan a year in advance book as soon as the calendar airline, that's how a lot of people will snag those really hard to get tickets Okay, Brian Kelly, great advice. Thank you. Thanks for having me. See, the issue is when you want to buy in advance, like me, but your husband That's where the issue is. Push and pull. Yes, sure. First of all, what? Back now with our national lead, Will you or your guests And just how will the weather impact First, let's tackle the travel. New numbers from the TSA show to break records for those flying CNN aviation correspondent Pete Montaigne at Reagan National Airport So, Pete, give me a sense We're up about 2% And remember, there was year after year of increases These numbers are the biggest really continues the theme. The TSA says its top ten biggest days Heard a passenger walked by earlier. He said things here aren't as bad as he anticipated, And this is when the rush really begins after the end of the workday on Wednesday, on Thursday. So far, the TSA has seen 2.7 2.9 million people expected to be screened Things have not been smooth The big pain point Administration is in Newark a delay program, The average delay about an hour The cause of this is air traffic control The FAA is short staffed of controllers mandatory six day weeks, But it is particularly acute at Newark. The FAA has gone to such great lengths moving the facility responsible for that Although things have not been And the FAA says they're trying to hire They anticipated but it has been pretty bad so far They had a ground stop yesterday. The help can't come soon enough One thing the FAA is doing is that is typically reserved of the East Coast over the Atlantic Ocean a lot of people This is when the rush really begins Pete, I feel like we keep topping records Every time you and I talk about this and is that what you're hearing from maybe even 2025 It keeps going higher and higher. The travel experts, especially at triple the pandemic era And now things although we will probably see an all time according to TSA administrator he tells me that is when we could see That is a huge number A lot of people trying to travel. And this is now the new norm. I am going to stay home Pete Martin at Reagan National Airport. Thank you, my friend. As for the second part of this equation for many of you. Thanksgiving's going to be served up with a side of rain or snow, and those could actually get worse CNN meteorologist Lisa Raffa is following So what are we going to see, Lisa, but over these next few days? It's about to get cold. Some of the coldest Today, though, is the best travel day, We have a storm that's developing, really have its juices together yet. That's why we've had some green showing up As far as the airlines are concerned, it's been some smooth However, We do have some rain and snow on I-70 across Kansas, Kansas City with some rain Roads are wet as we go into Indianapolis, near Cincinnati, and then even parts So starting to develop with some of that Then as we go into tomorrow, because this storm system and expand and take the rain with rain stretching And that could cause some problems when it comes to travel, We are looking at possibly some because of several inches of snow So you can see how that storm in the Midwest Snow for upstate New York, Hampshire, Vermont, and then that rain, and then stretching down towards The showers, the cold air comes in all weekend. So if you're doing traveling around the Even going into Saturday and Sunday. So you can see where we have in New York. And then here comes all of that snow US airports with a record number of travelers this Thanksgiving holiday CNN meteorologist that could bring rain, snow But first, let's head on over to Reagan That's where we find CNN's Pete Martin. So, Pete, what is the latest? Well, things have been relatively smooth You know the line to get through at Reagan National Airport, now less than 5 minutes to get through. It has not been smooth everywhere, though. And a particular pain point for the FAA is Newark That's where the FAA is facing And it has purposefully delayed flights The average delay for a flight going into This is so bad that United Airlines put out a memo traffic controller shortages have caused 46,000 passengers I want you to listen now He says that these slowdowns We are working the traffic. The staffing issue is as quickly We expected some disruption, which is why we're pushing We have never been able to get Newark when it was in New York. And so we're very optimistic we're going That move that FAA Administrator Whitaker taking the airspace facility from Newark to Philadelphia to be able to beef up trying to get through the pipeline The help can really not come soon enough The TSA screened about 2.7 million people It says it's going to screen about 2.9 today. We've seen nearly 8 million people pass since the start of this week, Alex. And it's only the start. Well, Thanksgiving in the U.S. is just one day away, travel season ever. The American Automobile Association, or Tripoli estimates and it says nearly with more than 70 million It is a big Thanksgiving day Security Administration expects but passengers Two storms are set to hammer Let's get more really on Thanksgiving Whitney, Chicago O'Hare Airport, you are still looking quite chirpy, A very good sign. That is the general mood here at O'Hare. It has been so smooth But like really for any time, So let me walk you through what we know I think it puts it all into context. So what we know is that at least a million through O'Hare and Midway. Those are the two Chicago area airports that those numbers are starting yesterday They're thinking the busiest day Airport Authority 254,000 people Really look, nationwide, to fly over this holiday weekend. Fortunately or luckily, the weather today is perfect. So there are very few So let me take you to the big board. That's the proof that things are going Look at this on time, on time I don't see any cancellations at all. I see very few delays here. Nationwide, there have been only So things are looking very, very good. That weather system We're keeping a watch for tomorrow, Back to you. And give me a sense of and I know at the airport, how people are preparing, Gary, talk us through the routine for some of the travelers on this major Oh, yeah. If you're ready for turkey day travel, And the system is this Make sure the kids have books, snacks, whatever device And then also just keep a good attitude the TSA website to make sure Because sometimes what happens Is it six ounces? What can I bring? And that causes problems. When you get to security, who is happy So just a refresher at TSA, gels, has to be in a1a quart zipper So those are the rules. If you stick to them, Back to you. Very, very quick question It's checks. What food you can take. What food What are we talking about here? Well, our one, John Berman, told me today that he once took a Brussels sprouts stock So it is a release. I'm telling you, it is great. I want to give you a woman years ago I think, look, it's Thanksgiving, Everybody wants to put forth So they're bringing whatever they need to do to deliver Oh, my God, John Berman. I hope he got through with that. Thanks. Very much appreciated. All right. New York City is getting the holiday party for tomorrow's Macy's And the character balloons celebration. And there is no bigger character Look at him. Look at him. Is so long. He's all dressed up and ready Starting point. Harry, where did you learn these moves? I, I got to We got Thanksgiving tomorrow. We got the crowds over there. I mean, how could you not be The bottom line I'm hanging out with my big brother, Tom, child of this parade, going all the way back, basically a century ago. So the bottom line is there's no reason I'm just in the Thanksgiving Harry, what do you call that move? I don't I don't know what I call it, but I'll tell you, whatever it is, That is true. But maybe it's organic. It just comes provocative, just like I am. I'm organic. Yeah. Let's talk to us about pie. You've looked at some polling What type do Americans Right. What do you like best? I mean, it's got to be your pumpkin I mean, it's the spirit of it's Number two is apple pie. I'm lukewarm on apple pie. My girlfriend loves it. I've had a little pecan pie But I got to say, Pumpkin pie is numero uno, my dear friend, sweet potato pie, I mean, where where is sweet potato pie? Sweet potato pie is a little bit lower. I believe it is in the top five. But the bottom line is So it doesn't flavor. You're either gold, silver or bronze, Fair enough. Where it doesn't count. Okay. Less controversially, what about what to have Thanksgiving? Yeah, I mean, look, basically early afternoon you know, I think the whole thing is crazy, though. What is this, that 6 p.m. or later, which is when you normally eat at only around 10%. That's not out of butter, we're going to be eating dinner early But if you're going to eat me, I think Let me live a little bit longer. I feel like I'm in a parallel universe Yeah, I wasn't talking about people That's a That's something we can't respond Harry Enten God, you look good. Thanks for being with us, man.