Tight deadlines, reading documentation, There's so many things nowadays that However, we have the significant so much of what we do nowadays. So today's video, we're gonna check out will boost your day-to-day productivity, And let us know what command line tools Why did the Vim user Because they were afraid of colon wq. Get it? Because colon wq means to save a Okay, nevermind. Neo Vim is a fork of a popular Vim time if you get to know how to use it. Now, if you haven't heard of Vim, Vim was made all the way back in 1991 and and customizable editor in their terminal. The productivity boost comes because you awkward back and forth with your mouse. NeoVim provides a hugely Here are some examples. NeoVim supports syntax highlighting, read and understand your code NeoVim also supports auto completion, by suggesting code snippets, You can also use Neo Vim to quickly search NeoVim offers extra capabilities like before you make the change or limit And let's be honest, who has the time I certainly don't. NeoVim comes with a pop-up menu that shows that you don't have to memorize anything. And if you wanna take a plunge into Vim, give Learn Vim the Smart Way book, or Vim adventures if you like The next tool I wanna talk about is It's literally the name of the tool. Thank you. This tool is called The Fuck, and You know how sometimes you type and you make a mistake, but you're The Fuck is a great tool because it command with the appropriate one. So for example, if I type in the because that command doesn't exist. All I have to do is type in fuck into the output the right command python for me. It can also help me complete my that will add an upstream branch. And let's be honest, we've all hit manually typing out that flag. Or if I do something silly, like screw identify what I meant to have typed. The Fuck comes with a lot of rules customizable, so you can define your own You heard me right! That means you can customize the When you accidentally mess up a check with your therapist if The Fuck is completely free and on MacOS, Windows and Linux. Install it right now and remember in the command line, just say &quot;fuck All right. One of the most annoying things line is navigating files. The first commands I had to learn But thanks to fzf, I can navigate line at lightning speed even faster than There is not a high bar to top, given For example, this command directory and then change to it. I admit I am guilty of the classic then ls, then cd, then ls, then cd. You get what I'm saying? Fuzzy Finder makes it really if you have a lot of branches. You can use this command to branch and then check it out. It's really useful if you're like to test out very random changes. fzf is also great for package management. Running this command allows you to search details immediately. You can even use it to navigate re-execute previous commands. Isn't that so useful? And one thing I like to do is set aliases can activate them even more quickly. Now, these are just a few examples fzf takes the annoying part and makes things blazingly fast. HTTPie makes it extremely easy Now I know what you're thinking. Why can't I just use Curl? Maybe if you're trying to make a no parameters, then curl is the exact But the real power of HTTPie parameters that you'll most likely Let's say I want to make a post request and receive back a JSON response. Here's what it looks like As you can see, it's much easier to and they do the exact same thing. What's more is that HTTPie has built it'll automatically parse JSON data Also, with just a simple flag, HTTPie lets Isn't that so much more pretty? There's also an insane amount of plugins for your cloud providers, Everything uses HTTP nowadays, so if endpoint without having to use huge tools then I highly recommend using HTTPie. If you use Docker, you know how Managing containers, building It's a lot. At the cost of what? Your sanity! Lazy Docker understands the It's actually a genius. By providing a command line tool functional docker commands into Let me show you what I'm talking about. Running Lazy Docker launches a Lazy all of your docker containers, You can click on a service and see like logs, stats, config files, et cetera. There's also a really easy pop-up menu that allows you to do things like stop service, prune all unused images and more. All of these can be executed Docker, I'm gonna keep it real with you. I say this because I love you, want me to memorize, it's not it. Docker ps, start, event, history, composed, import, info, checkpoint, update, run, sandwich, service... okay, I'll stop now. Docker is really awesome software developer productivity by getting probably have to Google anyways. This is a must have tool And that's it. I really hope these tools improve your definitely made my life a lot better. If I missed anything in this video, please command line tool you cannot live without. And if you wanna see more tips on how to make sure to subscribe to this channel. And thank you again for watching. See ya!