There's an eerie sense of mystery Hardly any outsiders get in. And those who do know very little about within these borders. There are secrets that North Korean about unimaginable the people experience. Over And you can read reports of widespread Electricity is in short supply with most Life in North Their dress, their hairstyle, There's essentially no freedom of speech, the free world enjoys, and the consequences There's a lot North Korea as it is to get in, it's even harder A North collapsing in a hail of bullets On November 13, 2017, Oh Chong Song attempted the impossible, It's a miracle he's alive. He was shot five times by his countrymen But he survived. The more we learn about the more I begin to wonder, What drives someone to cross a minefield I want to get as close as I can what life really looks like I want to know can the gospel And what happens We're standing here with, at the border of South Korea, with the demarcation line between Kind of overwhelmed. My heart's heavy, of persecution And then on top of that, just starvation major physical needs. So it's just, it's pretty overwhelming. That's where we're heading now. David came here like ten years ago, and Various sources report that starvation since the North Korean famine of 1990, to 3.5 million people starved to death. These conditions are staggering, are those in leadership. That's why most North Koreans of the Worker's Party of Korea, those who prove their full allegiance, You can The Democratic Republic of Korea treats with recent reports that being found in possession of a Bible There are tens of thousands of Christians for the crime of believing A report by the United Nations said that the gravity, scale, a state that does not have any parallel And it's all behind one border, considered one of the most The Demilitarized Zone We're about to get there. Even though it's called There are tens of thousands of troops plus another 750,000 on the northern side, half a million on the southern side And if that wasn't enough, At the end of World War II, having defeated the Axis powers, forced Japan to surrender its territories, At this point, the Korean Peninsula controlling the North The North immediately began major reforms, of land and property. The communist government was suspicious as rebellious thinking. Wouldn't you know it? Christianity fit that bill. So many Christians migrated south. Pyongyang, which was once known a model of how Christianity It would all get worse. This division between North and South was only supposed The plan was to prepare Korean, completely independent But things were heating up and it was immediately And suddenly, The South held elections while over in the North, a new dynasty would rise. One that would transform And it started with a name Kim Il Sung. There's a song it's called, &quot;Thank you, Father Kim Il Sung.&quot; It's the first thing North Korean parents It all sounds kind of worshippy, doesn't it? And it actually kind of is. The U.S. Commission that the Kim Dynasty is much more It also holds itself out virtue, spiritual wisdom, and truth Every home in the country has a portrait visit the homes and hand out fines This isn't just respect. It's full on veneration. They're not just interested They want to be worshiped. It's not a coincidence. If you dig a little into the history that this whole system of worship In fact, it has its origins in a place It's hard to understand before World War II. But like we talked about in episode one, of the East with hundreds At the time, there were more than 800 and missionary efforts were thriving. Some estimate that one out of every five was a Christian at the time. Korea was no stranger to the gospel The North Korean regime is built upon the Marxism and socialist ideology. But Kim Il Sung, he was a little bit modified as a Christian church child, and his mom So he was growing up and he had enough So I think it, after we can find a lot of similarities between our regime system and all of those church in the Bible, gospel songs, So in North Korea, we were praising but even we changed that leader to God, Jesus. So essentially, Kim and made himself God. Yes, in that story, yes. Rather than the one worshiping God, Yeah. This is Grace Jo Kim. She was born in 1991 She escaped North Korea in 1998, has been living in the U.S. as a refugee since 2008, raising awareness for the desperate and children forced to live She's also a follower of Jesus is distorting the Christian faith If I go back to 1996, I was five and a half years old at the time, And I remember I was drinking for ten days straight And then about two years, And we were trying to search for some food operating in the farms, And we also lived in the mountain wild fruits, season is the most difficult season because it's hard to find the natural food So after like for two years starvation, we all were suffering And my father, from one of his his distant relatives back in 1997. And he went to China for three times. And the third time when he came back, and he was detained And a lot of chaos happened But if I make a short story, we lost our father to our regime. And my grandmother, and her last wish was to eat And my younger brother And my older sister, And she left it to a city to find a food, but she never returned. So we lost our sister, and she that she was sold to China And my mom, she got tortured, and she gave birth to a premature And that baby only lived for two months And that baby brother also died after two months later by starvation. And after my father died, my my mom was also very weak took her to the detention center And she was bleeding, and her just So she cannot carry He was four or five years old, And one of my older sister, she was ten years old at the time, so, But even though all the family members passed away still didn't think that we going But the last thing kind of gave her strength our government officials, about six of them, came to our house, and there were ideas because our family kind of according to North Korea law. And then they're not welcoming our family The reason they're asking us to leave after a month later, Jong Il's presidential election We only elected for one person, right? So they are asking, all you guys have to go But at that time it was July, and begged them that all my children, We don't have clothes And this is our home. But those people, we will come back and check. And if we still found out we will burn this house down. So that was the last words And my mom just completely just changed her heart and said, &quot;Well, Every 4 to 5 years, North Korea holds Jo just described, with the most recent However, more than being opportunities they really serve as instruments and to track the whereabouts of Korean There's only one choice are overlooked by the portraits It's all part of an elaborate ruse to keep the Kims at the center of power. And at its core, you'll find an ideology Juche. I think Juche is the main that came here so modified from Marxism, so that the Juche ideology or core point is that man is centered, man is the intelligent person intelligent men can lead the group Well, that's is the intelligent guy, and who made North Korea independent And he's the main person So that's how Juche ideology kind of shaped him to become So even though North Korea says the Juche philosophy behaves and the Kim Dynasty are worshiped It's not hard to see how Kim Il Sung with his grandparents even going to seminary, and deviated But what does the Juche philosophy Every North Korean has to go to a weekly where they sing songs from a hymnal It's wild, but it was reported that was sung to Kim North Koreans pray, looking at pictures of the Kims. above all their possessions, they'll be reunited Juche has ten principles that are taught no greater authority in your life Kim Jong Il's birthday is called And North Koreans are taught that there was a double rainbow Kim Il Sung's speeches are studied as if from kindergarten all the way to Ph.D North Korea even has its own calendar. It's based on the year of Kim Il Sung's 2024 is the year Juche 113. It's no wonder the North Korean so much. It exposes its lies as what it is: a fraud. I've heard you say just in previous interviews defectors who become Christians are categorized as serious defectors. What does that mean? Our Juche theology is similar and then North Korean regime hates that people find out the true God, which is Christianity and through the Bible, so when we got caught, as citizens we got caught in China and when we get there, the boyibo is the similar level So those at this level will sort out those individual spy interviews and them trying to find out heard about the gospel, about the true story So once they found out that and read the Bible, which means all his ideology is changed they know the truth, so they will not remain loyal So that's 100% that that person will stay The authoritarian regime in North Korea every invisible sign of Christianity. literature, and symbols and anybody that professes faith in Christ Some estimate that as many as 70,000 citizens are imprisoned The Kims and those in power know is based on a counterfeit and they fear the power that if their people would know the truth, It sounds like a place and yet the North Korean church North Korea, Pyongyang, once it was called Eastern Jerusalem because we had so many Christians so they were educated at gospels and a lot of missionaries educated and started to help people. And then all of those spiritual activities began from Pyongyang. But after Kim Il Sung took power, the Communist came in, all the churches destroyed, So when I see the current North Korea, I just feel like the evil and they are human And they have to eat, they have to sleep, So in that case, man has limited a power, So the main difference is God has love. But Kim, the god of a human-made god, he doesn't have love. And God That's why He rescued and trying to raise voices so then those Christian community can pray for them and do something in a spiritual world, we still need so then that truth can spread