The second generation of Pokemon is infamous awful or badly placed throughout the Johto ones that are absolutely not worth using in I'll judge each Johto Pokemon based on in-game role, movepool, niches in-game, With that out of the way, I quickly want to Nearly every Pokemon can be viable, I like to play with a decently-built game. This video is made for players Now, it's finally time to 2 Pokemon should not be used in a GSC playthrough. The first group of Pokemon I want to talk about that Johto is very unfriendly towards Grass types. of the gym leaders, Team Rocket grunts and rival a closer look at just how disappointing The Johto games start in New Bark Town, Meganium has a high base stat total. Movepool wise, Meganium shines in its and powder moves. It's the only Grass type which is one of the better damage Compared to other types, this is kind of pathetic, though. If you want to run Meganium can also learn Return and Earthquake, I'm confident in saying that Meganium is so it won't get much better than this, sadly. The first wild Grass type you can it only knows Splash and Synthesis, forcing where it learns Tackle. This is basically a but without the awesome payoff You can only catch it in the early routes, so After Tackle, Hoppip doesn't learn an offensive you're nearing the Elite Four or accessing Even fully evolved, Jumpluff's 55 making its attacks weaker than some to play disruptively with moves like I think you're better off picking Butterfree, a Pokemon that has many advantages over the the game finally hints what you were The next Grass type we're looking at is Bellossom can be obtained by evolving Gloom than a Leaf Stone for the superior Vileplume. Contest a few times. There's quite a bit of luck When we're comparing Bellossom directly to good alternative. Bellossom has Vileplume's stats, swapped. Those stats only differ by 10 points, so higher Special Attack and access to Poison STAB baffling why Bellossom was even introduced--it Speaking of unique, here's the Pokemon with The only way to get rid of this Sun Stone. As I quickly showed earlier, and Sunflora--Sunkern's evolution--just Its only notable strengths are its and a decent evolution of Grass moves had more Speed a nd a useful second That was it for the Grass types, let's Ledyba and Spinarak. Early Bug-types are usually whole new level. They evolve quite late for an the Caterpie and Weedle line. Both of these Ledian excels in Special Defense and support role. It is, however, the only moves and even if it did--Ledian's To give it some credit, it does have an impressive make better use of these moves. On top of that, while Ledyba is still stuck in its first Now for the other Johto Bug-type, Spinarak it has a hard time in the early game. It's stuck where it learns Night Shade. While it game-changer. You also can teach Spinarak TMs, but By the time Spinarak reaches level 17, three single stage Bug types will become and they'll immediately start putting Even Ariados's one niche--trapping Pokemon--is They're faster and can actually I really wish I could give the early Bug-types had a better stat spread, and learned they wouldn't have made it onto this list. Now, let's see if there are any other It's time for Johto's regional Hoothoot favors bulk a bit more compared to Noctowl doesn't really catch up in its It's more oriented towards Special Attack it actually learned any Special moves! The only and Dream Eater, both at such high levels that Hoothoot line could've had a niche in the Team but Game Freak decided to make it rely on stat of 50 and fill its early game By the way, that attack stat is only 5 points Spearow's. A really pathetic performance compared Continuing on with the Zubat line, which has love this Pokemon, but I'm severely Zubat hasn't really changed since the RBY games. low BP moves by level-up and it still evolves The Zubat phase is really weak and Golbat doesn't at level 30 or the Fly HM, which will most Attack. GameFreak also forgot to give Crobat any relying on TMs to be somewhat useful. It's just Crobat ends up being too similar to a STAB. On top of that, many Flying types in Johto full potential more quickly, so Crobat really Crobat evolves through friendship, And let's continue the trend of Togepi line! The games require you to pick up people got introduced to egg hatching back in Pokemon that slowly grows into something If you don't walk around for Togepi will hatch at level 5 by the time you most likely have one of these Pokemon Also, don't expect much from STAB moves; level-up movepool is full of support moves, so if you want it to deal damage. Special attack late into Johto or in Kanto, so it actually I would honestly use Noctowl over this and The next Pokemon is exclusively available in Gold and Silver is a late game encounter, Let's see how it performs in Pokemon Crystal! type we can encounter. It evolves into Donphan with a base stat total of 500 and formidable physical attackers in Johto. there's more to consider. In Pokemon Crystal, rate. And to make it even worse, Phanpy has a 50% Once obtained, be prepared to invest because they barely learn any useful moves by Phanpy and Donphan rely mostly on Normal-type but in Donphan's case, it's especially Quagsire and Graveler, two other Ground can learn Earthquake in their thirties, You'll need the Earthquake TM from Victory Road That will also be the first time that the Phanpy Mud-Slap, given by the first gym leader, be outclassed by Headbutt. It does not learn You're better off using a Normal-type It's time to Headbutt some trees in the in these trees and Forretress is one of the that are a hassle to use. Let me explain why: at level 31, which would be between the 6th and with Tackle, Protect and Selfdestruct. It faces their reliance on Normal type moves to deal those Bug Pokemon have a BST of 500 and can It also doesn't help that Heracross is found Pinsir are not that far ahead of the Azalea area. line to physical attackers, since it's actually quad weakness. However, Pineco doesn't get any useful for nuking Whitney's Miltank, and also your Another Headbutt tree Pokemon I want to Aipom is a Normal-type Pokemon designed to be a decently quick Baton Passer diverse TM pool. For an in-game playthrough, it a versatile Normal-type attacker. None because there are many other Normal-types It's just another outclassed, poorly It may be the ideal time to horrible single stage Pokemon Johto introduced. The second single stage Pokemon is the beloved and it has pretty impressive stats for a making it statistically stronger than most Looking at its movepool, I'm surprised sets. While these sets can work, Its greatest feat is being able to solo but its encounter chance is so low, I think The next single stage Pokemon is Yanma! nothing going for it. Yanma has low stats, a not a single niche to save itself. This is I would rather hunt for a Psychic Hidden don't need to explain why these things are The only attack Unown can learn is Hidden Power, whose type and power depend on randomized can learn Hidden Power, so it's not like I don't see Unown as a Pokemon, Even in later generations, Game Freak has never given this Pokemon a single W. It's been Now for the Pokemon that It can be the ideal catching machine with but that's about it. Smeargle has lower stats long to learn Sketch again. Copying the While Smeargle shines in competitive battles, I Not even as a versatile Route cleaner, Let's talk about Sudowoodo next, one of the Sudowoodo is actually a solid Pokemon, it's just gyms, where Rock-types like Geodude and shine. When you compare Sudowoodo to Graveler, own strengths and weaknesses, so it mostly Personally, I think Graveler has a slight dual STAB and early-game availability make them As I mentioned before, Sudowoodo isn't bad at all, but in my opinion, the Geodude In Cianwood City, there's an NPC who had all his Pokemon stolen by your rival. Except for Well, to quote our rival: "I only care about strong Pokemon that can win. I have to agree with him in this case. I know later generations, but in this generation, Its best damage dealing move is Wrap for the Defense Curl with TMs, but even then, it doesn't and Sandstorm, which are locked away until Kanto, over time. I'd rather use Onix throughout the Did you know that you can give Shuckle he can have his precious Shuckie Delibird is kinda the Farfetch'd of Johto, but had the EXP boost and access to Swords Dance to only learns Present by level up--a move that should Present has a random chance of either dealing to teach it other moves with the help of TMs, Oh, Sneasel, what did they do to you? Attack and then an Ice/Dark typing. What were attackers that can't make use of its STAB. It's It's also only available in the late game, but I'd say go for it. Ice/Dark still has some great Gligar is up there with Yanma for being one of the but no STAB moves to use it with. GameFreak really Flying type moves. Another entry to the list of The final Pokemon in this group is stage Water-type Pokemon left, but they fit Stantler is available at the start of the passed by and many more begin appearing. that gets access to Hypnosis, which I'm really would run a mixed set of Return, Earthquake, forgot to give it a Special move for Johto. the Psychic TM is already there to finally give Attack. If it got Confusion by level-up, it for Crystal playthroughs, since that mon Besides access to Hypnosis, Stantler going for it compared to other Normal types. Granbull and Ursaring are better physical This Pokemon is kind of a mixed bag. It's close Let's tackle a few more of the smaller groups Psychic-types remaining in this video: the Abra line is one of the best evolution you can have a Kadabra with Confusion backed up by 120 Special Attack. Psychic type filling the same role as Espeon has higher stats than Kadabra, but movepool. The best possible moveset Bite and two physical or support moves. This a friendship evolution, so it's more tedious to Xatu has it even worse than Espeon. Psychic type move before level 65, which is a facing Red. Xatu needs the Psychic TM from physical attacks and Night Shade to deal damage. I would still put it on the list because Now that Espeon has appeared in the video, struggle as a friendship evolution Besides its rough availability, Umbreon but it lacks the tools to gradually during the early mid-game. Since it has see what Umbreon has in store. Umbreon learns which is quite late and not that great with to use a Normal-type move and Shadow Ball it to play disruptively, but having to wait 10 your Eevee up to level 30 for Bite, but that's Its role as a tank is actually performed Vaporeon. I'm not sure which of the two is of being able to deal tons of damage with Beam. Additionally, the Water Stone can so if I had to choose between Umbreon and The next entry is Steelix. Onix is a hassle. If you don't do this, you'll Coats are found on wild Magnemite, which have a Metal Coat. Depending on your luck, it can take evolution item. That's too much RNG to my liking. is actually a solid Pokemon, especially with False Swords Dance just before Johto's final battles. so I think waiting for Scizor until Kanto is okay. Johto, especially the one you get from a trade. the second half. It faces stiff competition even as a Graveler. It has many advantages over Even with strong alternatives available, I think Coat was, like the King's Rock, gifted by an Pokemon Crystal added the odd egg on Route 34. which can be a bit difficult to train at first, evolved. However, one that does not pay Hitmontop is one of Tyrogue's evolutions, the Tyrogue can be tough since it only knows Tackle 20, who finally learn a move at level 25 or 26. and with 35 base stats across the But here's the kicker: Tyrogue both of which are easier to obtain and one of one of Tyrogue's other evolution options, Fighting-type STAB Hi Jump Kick, pretty high itself is outclassed by a tradeable Machop, In short, you're better off including the one you obtain in Mt. Mortar. Before I move onto the next batch of I think the Legendary Beasts are great against the Elite Four beforehand. Howe Entei is one of those mono Fire types that is Attack to run a mixed set with. It mostly uses the so it has nothing notable going on in that field. Entei starts with at level 40. They're laughable. so you're basically required to spend money on There are two Fire-type Pokemon that you can obtain at the same time Entei escapes Magmar is the best Fire-type in Gold and line. It has excellent Fire/Electric has access to Flamethrower before you it can also learn Psychic to expand its Special Entei because of its early availability, great Entei is very similar to Flareon. Entei is of Flareon, but somehow it does not feel as good which will take less time than catching an attacker that has higher offenses than Entei and slower and less bulky than Entei, but it does just the weak Fire Spin until after the Elite Four, but you obtain it. Let's not forget it also levels up the time you could reliably catch an Entei. I can keep on going, but I think three legendary dogs, Entei is the worst. You've probably noticed by now that I haven't that's because I lumped them all The first Water type we fish up is Qwilfish! It's only obtainable with the Kanto activate a swarm with the DST-trick to make Qwilfish is obtained at level 5, which is It starts with Tackle and Poison Sting, which is well beyond the second gym. It early on to improve its damage output. its base Special Attack of 55 won't Bomb TM it so desires is only obtained after If you really want an early game Water type, Let's move on to mid-game Water types, many well-hidden Johto Pokemon, found a types that Corsola just can't compete with. by Quagsire, which has similar or higher both defense and offense. Corsola does learn a Ancientpower and Mirror Coat, so I can see The major deal breaker here is though. It's comparable to early-game that can still evolve, leaving Corsola The next Water type we'll discuss between Olivine City and Cianwood City, than the elite Water types I've mentioned before. decent Special Attack and Speed. However, its Flying STAB move, Wing Attack, very ineffective. type that relies on Surf for a pretty long time the weak Icy Wind for coverage. It doesn't offer slower compared to other Water types found earlier Let's move on to the Marill Marill can be found in Mt. Mortar at a mere encounter chance got bumped up in Crystal, As a bulky mono Water-type, Azumarill leans those two surpass Azumarill by a great margin. but they make up for it with every other Azumarill's movepool doesn't offer much beyond Water-types can learn, which often learn one can learn the famous Curl Rollout, but it Azumarill gets huge improvements it's just a bland, outclassed mono Water type. Next up is Kingdra! You'll find Horsea and only after defeating Pryce, making the Horsea Seadra evolves by trading it with a Dragon or Seadra at a 5% chance. Luckily, you'll so you don't need to catch a bunch of Kingdra is mostly a defensive upgrade over Seadra, resistances and better stats in HP, Attack, and but struggles against Clair. All of her Pokemon while our Kingdra can only hit them Twister or Icy Wind. The other important By the time you get Kingdra, you're nearly options available earlier in the game, it's The final Water type I will cover in this Remoraid, is another Pokemon locked swarm Pokemon unlocked in Route 44, which is Octillery has high offensive stats and decent too similar to Golduck and the Slowpoke line. attack and nearly double the speed. The Slow twins Psychic STAB on top of it. Golduck and the Slow moveset from the moment they're caught, just up a few times before it can successfully do so. so I find it hard to justify This nicely transitions into even more Pokemon that become available too late. Swinub in Ice Cave is encountered at game. It requires you to grind about 10 to evolve it into Piloswine and it in the final battles of the game. Use any Skarmory is actually an amazing but it lacks reliable offensive moves. It both moves that are not so strong and have a in Kanto. Some minor changes to its movepool And then there's the Gen 2 Kanto was GameFreak thinking? Houndoom would've given to Falkner and Misdreavus to Morty the game's pseudo legendary, would Luckily, there are ROM hacks that bring better way to experience the region. Well, that took even longer than my first video. Revisiting the Pokemon of Gen 2 in the GSC games were designed. Whether it's due to terrible or frustrating encounter mechanics, many of these be honest--there was little thought put into making Anyways, if you enjoyed this video, I did on the Pokemon in RBY. And if Sapphire, and Emerald Pokemon next, let to hear whether you agree or disagree Don't forget to leave a like and subscribe Until next time, have a good one.