Mormonism, is it Christian or is it an occult? 2023, over 68,000 missionaries. As of 2022, 173 live anywhere in the United States and different contact with people who are dressed really nice, I believe a teaching that is not Christian is the church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day was in Missouri near Independence. Around 600 BC, to the Americas and his descendants formed two the tribes fought each other but in 33 A.D after Americas and preached to the Nephites leading the those two tribes resumed and then by 385 A.D a on golden plates. After a major battle, Mormon's plates in 421 A.D. These writings became known Joseph Smith has a vision and he claims that him and told him that all the existing churches appeared to him and told him that there is a set American people and then in 1830, The Book of organization is founded. In 1844, Joseph Smith like a little overview of the beginning and these things are not historically accurate. Also and preaches you a different gospel than the one preached that we have to reject that gospel but some of the fallacies and some of the beliefs to the orthodox beliefs of Christians. The first So the big basic problem is that it teaches that steel weapons, fighting great massive battles. sign of vast civilization, great battles have with the book of Mormon is not that it only historically they're not verified and they're big contradiction between the Book of Mormon and they highlight the difference between the book of but the Mormon doctrine teaches that there are the Trinity is one God. The Mormon doctrine Gods. The book of Mormon teaches that God is God is increasing in knowledge. The book of the doctrine of Mormons teaches that God has eternal judgment and that hell is not eternal Mormon but in the Mormon doctrine, the polygamy contradiction even within the Book of Mormon and and this is is why. Here are 10 reasons that you are a Mormon, my goal is for you to research the truth and the Truth is Jesus Christ not the faith. Number one is Mormonism believes in many and even Islam. The father of Mormonism is one heavenly mother. The second reason that Mormonism eternal progression that means that everyone from one level of existence to another higher and as God now is man may be. God Himself once was throne in yonder heavens, that is the great secret man just like any human today, He progressed into being God. Now this idea is as old as Garden I believe it's not scriptural and it's demonic. is Eve. For example, if you read in one of their your father in the heavens, you will see Adam and you will see mother Eve. When it comes to Jesus, begotten in the flesh by the same character that heaven, Adam; Michael the archangel, the ancient only god with whom we have to do and it's a total birth. In one of their teachings, the being whom the Lord Jesus Christ and he was also His father make all you can of this statement. Mormonism the young woman named Mary and that Jesus was the why Mormonism is not Christian is that Mormonism organized matter and had now always God's form the cosmos as we know it. Now Gods as plural there is God. One God in essence but in three of nothing but they believed that God created beings have always existed, Mormons believe. form and progress. Christianity teaches that created everything out of nothing. The fifth is that Mormonism relocates Christ's main work correctly. The great victory according to Mormons but a psychological struggle against cosmic of Gethsemane. Mormons do not take communion, wine do not have cross's on their church buildings, redemption, atonement took place. All of that Garden of Gethsemane was very important but we as His burial and resurrection. That's where the redemption, that's where it happened. The sixth three levels and hell is mostly not forever. So celestial kingdom. You have to be married in Also if you are a woman, your husband has to call so you better treat him right. The second level get Jesus in this kingdom but you don't get the only good people go there. The lowest level of be reserved for individuals who received not the So these individuals will receive their glory is sometimes called hell. Notice that hell is not why Mormonism is not Christian faith. Mormonism King James Bible but it's not very important to that is not their main source of belief. Their Pearl of Great Price and so the Bible does tell us or who subtracts it you know their name would be dangerous. As I mentioned in the beginning, The contradictions to the doctrine of Mormonism and scripture. The eighth reason that makes Mormonism salvation through works. In Mormon salvation, resurrection. God provides grace for people to be is you have to work for the highest level of highest level of being in heaven and there are a need to be water baptized. Number two is you need a member of the church of the Lord Jesus Christ if you are a man, brethren, you must receive calling in the priesthood. Also you must receive eternity either in this life or in the next. reach the highest level of celestial kingdom but you get a little lower level where you just you can even get even lower level and even if you go to the lowest level of heaven, very convenient. faith is that Jesus's blood is not sufficient for or her own blood. According to Mormon doctrine, his light and knowledge will place him beyond the saved, he must make sacrifice of his own life to for the blood of Christ alone under the blood of Jesus is not enough for some sins. atonement for some sin since the blood of Jesus is in the Mormon doctrine. The tenth reason is you will see that though they pray to the Father these are just few ten different errors in a want to remind you that we cannot follow teachings the teachings of the prophets of the Old Testament rises, who claims to have an angel visitation or has ever heard about and that everybody is wrong, one person who has it all figured out, who has count, those teachings should be rejected and we that are given to us by inspiration of God and heretical teachings. If you're watching this you to research your faith, to study your faith you away from deception into the truth. If you continue to pray for them and you maybe even share scales out of their eyes so they will come to know the Son of God. Thank you for watching this subscribe if you have not and let me know in the