Hey guys. My name is Misty if hole in the wall local mom-and-pop food. And today's is SW8 (Swait) Dada's I don't even know how you pronounce it because Right now they're doing construction here so you on the street. It's not too far of a walk, but be confused with the Festival Market over there time. If you're wondering what sisig is, it's a pig head, ears, snout, whatever. I especially love and they usually use the pork And here's the menu. They also do beef pares chopping up all the pork belly and it goes but I think they put lemon and some peppers And that's the beef pares. I'm gonna soup. You can get it with rice or noodles, And it is cash only. So I'm excited to try it and parking is over here. If they weren't And they're really nice for letting me video them And there's some things frying in there. How long have you been doing this? Two years. And how do you say it? Is it Look at all the crispy pork. Wow. Yeah do second fry to get crunchy. Oh okay. So he was they fry it and then before they serve it to you Awesome thank you so much. And the cool part is And it's the same thing it comes with rice. You and they're only closed on Mondays but they're So again across from the Waipahu Festival they're right here their little trailer. Alright back to my car and try it out. Excited. Alright try this first so the noodles don't get soggy, some beef and it has some green onions on it. I asked for noodles and it looks delicious and the steam coming off of it, but these are the with some veggies in there too. Alright let's dig I was going to sit in the park, but there's no Wow right off the bat it kind of...I hate scared to try something new. Almost tastes And the noodles taste almost So good. Wow the beef broth is flavorful. Really, really tasty. Wow I'm impressed. I had it looks like there's like some choy sum And they're not overcooked. They're way I like it in soups. I don't like dead Just melts in your mouth. A lot of ginger flavor, you like beef you'll like this. On some parts I of how you flour stew meat before making beef you got to try this if you're looking for a This is bomb. This is so good. Generous portions been cooked unitl it's super tender and it just of the beef, which is great. I like it. Makes tendon and different things in there, but there's the cuts of beef have meat the lean parts and That way the beef isn't so tough and it's not garlic flavors and just that rich deep natural you're not really into soups you'll like this So flavorful. And the sprinkling of the green on certain bites and it gives it a nice flavor can add rice to this. And they also give...I just and it's really honestly hard to find calamansi thing for a restaurant it's probably really and it's individually wrapped in foil to keep see what it tastes like with that flavor. I but it was really great without it. But let's Really good. It gives it another but it gives it that fresh lemon taste. Kind of cuts through the fat because and a little bit of sweetness from the lemon. So I could see how this is really good with If you don't know, calamansi is a small little in Asian cuisines and really used a lot in well and other places in Southeast Asia. Number fence about ordering this because I've never had and I'm so glad I actually ordered it because the usual Filipino dishes such as lechon you know sari sari and stuff like that. So if you things in Filipino cuisine and you like Filipino don't be scared. Give it a try. If you're is, it's $13 and it's a very big portion. then get another dish if you want to try stuff. Very generous on the beef and soup as well and a I was wrong. We're off to the second dish, which sisig and they do have calamansi in here. If you maybe they do use lemon with a beef pares. But that they put lemon in the sisig and like I said find these exotic things. I remember my grandma don't really see it in the supermarket and as a a lot. But I'm glad. Hey they got the real thing. rice and the sisig, which is chopped up pork belly some kind of interesting sauce that I've never It's white and the infamous pepper. That's what put one hot chili and it's also got looks like So let's dig in and take a bite of this. I'm going this white sauce is about. Man if you could only to the staff and owners of SW8 Dada's Sisig to let You can hear that crunch. Crunchy pork skin, If you remember we had sisig with That's kind of the real thing though which I don't mind. It's got a crunchy I think this is great to have the pork belly kind of queasy about eating different parts of the pig face and the ears and stuff and the gelatinous if you're scared of it this is just a regular That calamansi smells so fragrant. Alright let's Again it's bringing out some freshness, that acid Mix it with some rice. The mayo to make of it. I mean it tastes I don't know if that's authentic I've never seen I'm seeing these little pieces of the what I So if you're afraid of spice don't be afraid onions. So it's not spicy at all if you don't It goes so well with the chili. I should like spicy things. Take a perfect bite of Perfect combination with the crispiness of the lean meat and a little bit of fat. So great. and definitely come to SW8 Dada's Sizzling Sisig like pork belly it's chopped up so fine it's easy much a plate with the sisig and the two scoops of to fry those and then he fries it a second time really fine like you saw in the beginning and it ask for more chilies because I didn't. I wish I have to come down and try it. So affordable if you're looking for it, for a party, they go check them out. Definitely a good option SW8 Dada's Sisig for letting me come into went and letting me see how he does it. Super service and remember parking's right there in the but I think they should be done today. They were I think it was the telephone company. So they is blocked you can either park in the Festival parking right there on that side road right behind I'll see you again next week. If you like this, for more food showcases around the island of Oahu