LARGE-CALIBRE TURMOIL Well, okey, okey, good boy! Just don't run after me like that anymore - otherwise I will gasp for breathing! After all, I survived 2020, if you understand what I mean ... So ... yeah ... This will be your home for the last few months. The last month It will be your home. Or whatever ... I don't remember exactly ... In short, you all remember the movie with Brad Pitt &quot;Fury&quot;. There was a fourth generation Sherman tank ... Done! - Fire! - This is my home! Today we have the T-72B tank in our program. The most massive tank of its generation in the world. Until 1992 alone, more than twenty thousand of them were produced. Many modern types of technology, including the T-90, originate from this machine. The development of the T-72 was started in the late sixties, as a cheaper tank in case of mobilization. The scheme of a tank with a front-mounted control compartment, a fighting compartment in the middle of the hull and an engine compartment in the stern. The crew consists of three people: driver, commander and gunner. There is no charger. Instead, a circular automatic loader. Twenty-two shots are in the machine. Twenty-two more are uploaded separately. Therefore, the tank can fire the first half of the ammunition at a speed of eight rounds per minute. Of course, all tank models have equipment for self-digging, underwater driving, when crossing rivers along the bottom at a depth of up to five meters. Protection against weapons of mass destruction, in other words, air filtration and increased pressure inside. Okay guys, let's be honest! It's a little scary to be in a tank ... Silenced on all sides, with hatches battened down, because here you don't feel like driving a BMW because you feel yourself in a tank, where you are constrained by walls, armor ... Below you are forty-four 125 mm shells, huge cannon, which, when everything starts working here, setng in motion and so on, I think that you can ... not sickly screw up concerning courage, because you really feel extremely uncomfortable here. It's not that I'm discouraging you from joining the tank forces ... I want to say that if you are at least ten kilograms bigger than me, thicker, you probably won't get in here. The T-72B tank is armed with 1A-40. A sight that has several of these eyepieces. The first is for direct shooting control. Well, I mean for visual detection. The second is for missile control. Yes, the T-72B tank is capable of firing missiles from a launcher and through this eyepiece you can see how the rocket flies and hits the target. This is a night vision device. Now the curtain is closed because it is not recommended to open it in the daytime - you can burn the matrix. Yes, and at night - everything is perfectly visible trough it! To load the ammunition, we put this toggle switch into load mode. Here we also have to push from automatic to manual loading. This is the icon that should light up here. We press this button - and we will have a cassette. Right here here. The gun will go down as far down as possible, and the breech will rise up. The cassette will come out and loading of ammunition will begin manually. &quot;U&quot; is a guided missile &quot;O&quot; is a fragmentation. The sight went into fragmentation mode, because each type of ammunition travels differently and the scope needs to be readjusted. Armor-piercing shells! And cumulative. This is the cannon lowering flywheel. The breech rises up. Here, he goes up here. Three types of toggle switches that include the tower function. This, in fact, is its horizontal drive, this is vertical stabilization, and this is a change in the range of motion. That is, when the tower itself spins towards the target. The sound, I'll tell you, is rather unpleasant ... It feels like we're taking off! And we haven't even moved yet! The tank is controlled (its aiming) with the help of such a thing. Turn on the drive and control the tower. This thing has four buttons: almost like playstation. If we press on the right side of the front button, with your thumb, then a rangefinder will appear in our sight. That is, we will be able to measure and with the left button cancel the target designator of the rangefinder. I have index fingers on this thing ... there are also two buttons: the right one controls the fire directly from the cannon itself, and the left - control of the Kalashnikov tank machine gun. If the this thing fails, then you have two types of redundant drives. That is, this is the horizontal drive of the tower, this is vertically, and there is a curious point here: here this thing moves and, if you click on it, then you will shoot from a cannon. Bam! And here the button is the control of the Kalashnikov tank machine gun. This pedal is like such an boletus, the last opportunity to press the trigger of the launcher. This thing here is the communication control inside. You click on it and you speak. Tankers provide a breakthrough of enemy defenses and even momentary mistakes in coordinated actions with other branches of the armed forces are unacceptable for them. At the time of the creation of the T-72, mechanical command watches were considered good military watches. In the commander's tower, not everything is as rosy as I imagined: there are fewer toggle switches here, but the tasks here are also not simple. This tower is turning by hand. And if it seems through the screen of your YouTube to you that it is easy, you are deeply mistaken. You need to be a big guy to turn this tower. This is a surveillance device. It is used at night too: that is, there is a night vision device, a night visor. Everything here is regulated, these things are spinning, diverged for the eyes if you are very, well, if your eyes are very close, accordingly, and if your vision is not very good, the eyepieces are also regulated here. There are two buttons here that allow you to specify a target - that is, target designators. and at some point, if you have indicated the target, the tower of this T-72B can turn itself automatically and the gunner will only have to press the shot. But, if something happened to the gunner and he is not capable of firing shots, you can take control. Anyways, there is a charging control system here. This contraption is a walkie-talkie, into which the commander communicates what he wants to communicate. Good news, or not. This is the commander's communications control box. Here he can switch to external communication, or internal. That is, to talk inside the tank, or switch to communication with other tanks. Here are the radio control units, and the commander, of course, can control the Kalashnikov tank machine gun in manual mode (mechanical mode). The Kalashnikov tank machine gun is activated in this way: this flag is removed and the trigger is pressed. The third place is the driver's seat, or control compartment. In general, I can tell you, they are not luxury apartments either! To turn on the mass, we need to get into this panel here. Engine temperature, coolant, fuel gauge, speedometer, tachometer, ammeter, engine pressure, airborne pressure. And the mass is included here. Control levers - as in a tractor: left control lever, right. Clutch, brake, speed - everything is like a car. And this is the gearbox. The T-72B tank was well armored for its time, but, with the advent of anti-tank guided missiles and anti-tank grenade launchers, it received dynamic protection. Roughly speaking, these tin boxes contain explosives, which explodes in different directions when a cumulative jet hits and it scatters it. Disperses a cumulative jet. In the turret of the T-72B tank there is a Kalashnikov tank machine gun. Here is its barrel and it is almost completely covered by the tower itself. I mean, it is soldered to the cannon. Well, if you want to make a lasting impression on your girlfriend, there is one option. The commander will have to get out for this, in this way, not very comfortable, and put hands here. The anti-aircraft gun in this case is the NSV &quot;Utes&quot;. Shoots with 12.7 caliber. It is extremely difficult to shoot, I do not know of a single, in general, successful method of using it against aviation ... Well, in general, it's called an anti-aircraft mount. By the way, I do not recommend that you to stand behind the tank, ten meters away, and do you know why? Because there is such a hatch here, which looks like it hasn't been opened for ages. but, after the shot, it will open. But it is not a bird that will fly out from there, part of the shell casing will fly out from there, because part of the shell casing has burned out. So this shell casing , as they say, flew out and split helmets on the head of poorly educated soldiers! Can you imagine what could be with your head if you are not wearing a helmet? But, it's better if you're in a tank ... The Tucha grenade ejection system. Here they are. Thrown out evenly, and this will allow the tank to get out of the firing zone. This must be an anti-cumulative grid. Twelve-cylinder, V-shaped engine, 840 horsepower, top speed - 70 km / h. Everything is just like in your favorite car: neutral point, brake, speed. Reverse and all of that. It is not very easy to turn smoothly here, because first you turn - then you go. The first type of projectile that we will use today is cumulative He has a weight of 23 kg, he looks like this. It's not easy, you know. This is the gunpowder charge, it gets out in this way. Almost like a grenade! You get out a cotter like this, one might say ... The structure is retracted to the side, and that's it. This thing gets out in this way. Maybe it's easy to knock it out? Mmm, fulminate cap! Conveniently! So ... Tube! Can you imagine, it smells like chocolate! Seriously, I'm not kidding, it smells like chocolate! well, let's see ... Really smells like chocolate! Here almost the same situation, but the weight here is 33 kg. This is a high-explosive fragmentation projectile. These things are removed and this heavy contraption gets out of here. Yes, a heavy, weighty contraption ... The main thing is not to pick with a knife ... Well, and this tube here, you know, like the column stands. Marble, you know, columns ... Here he is already in the equipped format. This is a scrap, weighs 6.5 kg. Yes, here you don't need to know anything else, except that this is really scrap in the common people ... Well, if scientifically, then this is a sub-caliber armor-piercing projectile. Yes, the weather today at the range is, as usual, very windy! Such that, you know, you can hardly raise a copter! But the copter is with us today, which means that the picture will be good! Yes friends. Today we have reinforced concrete floors, slabs like this, little fascists as you like, and sandbags. All this is to be penetrated by the T-72 tank. Yes, it was always interesting what will happen with these bags? After all, the bags with sand or with earth were picked up by these fascists ... And this is the main fortification: a fast fortification construction. So what happens if the T72B hits here with a 125mm projectile? - What a... * beep * A high-explosive fragmentation projectile flew here, and this is what he did: hit the lower part, scattered in different directions ... flew towards the camera, and did not reach ... But, the bags were scattered, and, in general, if you are below, there are great chances, because the fascists who hid here have broken legs, assault rifles, in general ... Although this is a head shot. Okay, with this fascist everything is clear ... Let's dig up another fascist, let's see if we're lucky? No, friends - no chance! This is the head ... Well that's it! There is no need to dig here: here, in my opinion, is the mass grave of the fascist army of the Wehrmacht. At this plate we will now shoot a cumulative projectile and it's time to pull the trigger! There, by the way, they say, the rubber band is like that, you need to lean against it tightly. I didn't know that, so ... it's good that I'm lucky, otherwise my nose would have been broken! The T-72B tank smashes the slab ito pieces, makes a huge hole in it and all the insides of this slab - there they are, scattered forward about 200 m. Here I see fragments, only I cannot understand: I fired with a cumulative, but I see a lot of fragments here. In general, not much to believe that I have mixed up the ammunition ... No, of course not! These are, most likely, splinters from a 125 mm fragmentation projectile hitting the bags. Because he is close here, and I see that the trajectory is heading in this direction. What about the fascist? This fascist survived. Because the blow fell right in the middle. It's the same with this dorky fascist. I hit the very center of the slab, and here I also see many small fragments. Here are the ones. There are both large and small ... Well, friends! Judge for yourself! Use this as a tutorial, share this video or not ... Putting likes and comments is of course necessary, because we have 2 more plates and 3 plates! High-explosive fragmentation 125 mm at a speed of 700 m / s crashes into this wall, completely breaks the first part of the slab and nothing remains of it, except for some reinforcing bars, which also look very unimpressive. In dust the first part of the plate, and the second - also into dust! It breaks through so that if it were a house, then the shell would fly through it! Ahaha! Well, look how lucky this fascist is! He covered himself from below, bastard, and survived! Well, this is where the work of the scrap is obvious - a sub-caliber armor-piercing projectile. It passes from this side, and from that side, and from three different sides: in general, it passes wonderfully! By the way, you see, he has even a little, as if fragments ... Although no, these are pieces of this concrete here, they crashed here. By the way, some end-to-end almost! The copter, by the way, broke down! See, the camera fucked up: for some reason it rattles, shakes, and behaves extremely unstable ... Two plates are shattered by a shrapnel shell! And the third plate was not pierced by a fragmentation shell ... I mean, the crowbar breaks through all three, the cumulative breaks through one guaranteed ... Whoa! Is it part of a projectile? So big! So, here his remains lie here? And this somehow scientifically proves that you have a reason to hide behind the third plate! Well, friends! Before I leave on a tank into the sunset, I want to wish you good night! And now I'm leaving in a tank into the sunset. LARGE-CALIBRE TURMOIL