Hi everyone, Kevin here. Today I want to Microsoft Excel. So what is index match and why things up. Let's say for example at the Kevin and I want to answer the question, how much in India? I can use index match to answer that of money in the cookie business. If you want to in the description down below. All right, let's index match should work in just about any version 365 subscription. Now I mentioned that we're separate functions. You have the index function and when you bring them together, you can pull And to make sure we understand how it works, you've ever played the game Battleship before, In the game of Battleship, you try to take out coordinates on the board. So, you'll call out a ship. The index function is very similar to that. sheet, here you'll see our very own cookie company And here within the board I have a cookie. Now I in this specific cell and it's a cookie. So let's in the formula. I'll select this cell right here clicking on insert function. This opens up a start with index. Here I'll type in index, click This opens up another prompt and let's go with column_num, and then click on OK. This opens up we want to pass into this function. what is the array? Here I'll move this over and the game Battleship. The array is all of the So here if I come down to my board different cells. These are all the different And right here it asks me to specify a row number know what's in this specific cell. So this is row also column number three right here. So for column click on OK it gives me a cookie back. So it tells And that's all the index function does. You give specify a row and a column that you want back. And that we've looked at how index works, let's take the next worksheet called match. Next up we have index match. With the match function, you can So here for example I have a table with all at the Kevin Cookie Company. And let's say I want see that I have six rows in this table and sugar see but maybe you have a lot more data and that's type in the match formula and once again to make function icon. This opens up the insert function Next click on the match function. This opens for this function. And first it wants to know to find out what row is sugar in. So the lookup Now I could also simply type sugar in but I'll specify the lookup array, so I want to find sugar what row is it so I'll select this as the array. I want it to be exact or not exact but I'm just Now right over here I can already see the outcome so it's in row number six. I'll click on Now because I simply referenced this cell, I here tells me that fortune's on row number Like index, it's also a pretty simple function. match function and we're going to be able Down below, let's click into the index and we're going to bring together index and match and sheet, I have all of our different cookie types revenue. Now I want to write in a formula that'll and index match will help us here. First I want just like we did in the previous example, we can to what we just did. I'll click into this cell and function arguments prompt and once again I want value, I'll select sugar and for the lookup array, here it shows me that it's in row number six. Now that we know that sugar is on row number six, and this is where we can use the index function. here let's select index and then click on okay. on okay again. This opens up the function so I want to know a specific revenue amount in and we found that sugar is on row six. So here I we see that the revenue for sugar is just over 17 formula up here, I hard coded in row number six, So here I'm going to click up where I entered in is on, and here, I'll copy the formula. Next, I'll hard coding in the six, let me paste in my match sugar is on within the within the index formula. but now the neat thing is here maybe instead of it to fortune and hit enter and look at that it cookies are actually our second highest revenue If I go back above, I'll click into the index here it's basically saying B6 through B11, this is And then match is telling me what specific row in row four, so here it returns this value back. match works and you can pull off some pretty fancy advanced. In the intro, I mentioned that I want chocolate chip cookies in India and here I have a all of our different markets. And right here I can 32 million dollars but how can we use index match by entering in the match formulas and then we'll let's find out what row chocolate chip is on. Here let's use match. Here I'll click on match and then chocolate chip and for the lookup array I'll I'll click on okay. So here we see that chocolate what column India is in also by using match. Here select match. This opens up the function prompt. the lookup array, I'll select all the different okay. So here I can see that India is in column and the column number, we are ready to play the function. Right up here under revenue, let's type to specify the game board or the array. Here I'll comma and now I need to specify the row number and it to three. I'll insert another comma and then in column one so I'll press a one and then close made almost 33 million dollars on chocolate chip code values in the index function. Instead, I want So here I'll click into chocolate chip and here row is. Here I'll click into index and instead of and here it continues to work just like it did I'll copy the match formula here. I'll click back here I'll paste in the match formula for just like we expected to. Now if I click into here but when you break it down and you start with the it's actually very easy to use index match. The change any of these different values. So instead fortune cookies. There you'll see that in India Now if I want to get really fancy, I could even typing in a value, let me go up to data up on the validation. Right here, I'll select list instead of the different cookie types, and then I'll click well. Here I'll click on data validation. I'll set the different markets that we're in and then I'll to choose any of my cookie types. So, let's look looks like that's a little over seven million, and snickerdoodle and it's a little over seven you can start building some very nice interactive index match works but I want to leave you with called index and match advanced 2. On this sheet little bit differently. Here I have the cookie and then the revenue. I want to find out how much the Philippines. So how do we figure this out? start with the match function. Once again let's go For the lookup value, I want to look up birthday also select the Philippines. So, I want to look array here, I'll select this entire column right I'll insert an ampersand and then I'll select Then I'll click on okay, and it gives me a the Philippines or this combination on row number like we did before. To insert the index function, select index, select the first option, and now we for the array, let's select all of the revenue here I can reference this cell with number looks like birthday cake in the Philippines has did before here I can take the match function, of this reference within my index function. When the revenue back for multiple different criteria. any one of these values, so maybe I type in India, Here too I can also insert drop down lists if I let me know down below in the comments, will you If you enjoyed this video, please consider