The development of 2D pixel art platformer made by Joar Jakobsson, who was studying graphic When the Swedish student wasn't drawing time to learn how to program and make sprites One of his early video game projects called some primitive AI behavior, something he would Having little experience playing games himself, games he could play with his cousin who loves The initial idea behind the Rain World prototype standing upright, like Mario for instance, tumble and crawl. After sketching a few designs and applying main character was born. Early on, Joar referred to it as "The Bear" In November 2011, he posted the prototype feedback. A couple of months later, after some tweaking to start a devlog to keep himself motivated. The original concept, then titled Maze Runner, the entire level during gameplay. Additionally, Joar wanted to create a small in a collective food chain. Creature A was small and able to fly around Creature B was the Bear character controlled while creature C was the apex predator and The goal was simple: eat as many A-creatures by creature C. Eat enough A-creatures without level. Since Joar really enjoys local multiplayer well where the player that's able to stay the match. Furthermore, to ensure endless replayability, level editor which he planned on making available own levels. Apart from that, the main tasks ahead of him levels and adding graphics to said levels The next couple of months, Joar started shaping style and was mainly inspired by his time in 2011. Not knowing the language or its traditions overwhelmed. He wanted to recreate that feeling of being The concrete structures and industrial parks looking aesthetic filled with tunnels, rusted and platforms the player can climb and jump Joar mentioned on the devlog it resulted in "I have always liked ugly environments. An abandoned building is a remnant of human different idea about who we are from just to any one of us. This might be the reason why the post-apocalyptic skeletons of human activity tells a slightly Joar stuck to a flat color palette, explaining of graphical elements and having lots of different Having fewer colors that mainly convey light and create a sort of visual harmony. Being inspired by early 20th century cartoons, to a black and white palette. Other aesthetic influences include graffiti, game look abandoned. It's also why Joar styled the games' flora traditional looking plants. As Joar began designing more levels and refining from the original concept that focused on of time. Instead, he began leaning more towards creating In April 2012, Joar shared he came up with rainfall mechanic that changed the premise Now, players could only hunt and collect food heavy rainfall would easily kill them. He mentioned on the devlog he likes the concept by this force of nature that you hardly ever him. At the start of development, all code was using Adobe Director, formerly known as Macromedia physics engine as development progressed. In May 2012, he sent out a first alpha version out. Opinions were very diverse, with some people hated it. The same was true for certain gameplay elements It was clear Joar needed to make certain changes He also continued refining the world and its The smallest creature had to be something much since that was your source of food. So, Joar opted to make it look like a cross The apex predator on the other hand went from a lizard-type creature. The player character still didn't have an commented "slug cats!!" and Joar ran with To give players a fighting chance against be used as distractions or as a means to defend It's important to note that during the early and had to juggle between school work and This resulted in a one hour a day work schedule he couldn't work on it for weeks at a time. His limited schedule remained that way until Before we move on, I'd like to talk about Milanote is a free online tool for organizing It's perfect to plan and carry out your What I love about Milanote is how easy and images, sketches, videos, PDFs, Word files Thanks to over 100 built-in templates, even creating a structured yet detailed project If something is missing from the templates you need onto your project or copy and edit You can work on your projects solo or you important feedback and collaborate with them Aside from using Milanote on your browser, projects on the go. Milanote is available for free with no time Sign up by visiting milanote.com/thatguyglen your next creative project today. Milanote, get organized, stay creative. Now back to the video. Although Joar had made the decision to create having difficulties choosing between a game Both had their pros and cons. A hub-world would mean players are free to replay value and a sense of freedom. A linear story layout would mean a lot more well as more visually interesting levels. In the end, he thought it would be more fitting world that's free to explore. Joar ultimately wasn't interested in creating go for something more unique. In addition, he started developing a custom and support multiplayer. In August 2012, James Primate, an American immediately expressed interest. After sending over an audio sketch for Rain Joar announced he and James would team up on out. James is also one half of a chiptune music It's no surprise then that his musical partner, inspired soundtrack. Having previously expressed being bad at sound would now produce all the music tracks and In the beginning, James focused on sound only, the business-side of things, to make sure and art. Their cooperation grew into an equal partnership. Though Joar was a bit scared to give up more he and James were operating on the same wavelength his own. Despite the game increasing in scope and having it as a cool art project they would release Making money off of it was the last thing At this point in development, Joar had made and behavior. Instead of using traditional sprite-based for character actions or movements, Joar implemented procedural animation. This means that characters consist of freely each with their own weight, range of movement Each limb is then individually animated with This makes the creatures look a lot more naturalistic For example, when a slugcat is climbing up is able to grab and release a pole accordingly, motion. Similarly, when a lizard is crawling along motor, pulling the lizard the distance of Additionally, Joar gave the lizards the ability If a player lands on the ground, a lizard and start to investigate. To be clear, it doesn't know where the player from. When a lizard is actively chasing a target, Joar accomplished all of this by giving the to give them a complex and robust method for In this example, the pink squares being dragged The pathfinding AI first sets up a grid and Then it calculates the available pathways Blue tiles mean &quot;I can get here&quot;, red tiles tiles represent both and therefore is the This is why creatures won't just mindlessly fall in the bottom of a pit somewhere. Their own survival always comes first. This same system also works for multi-room entire surrounding area to see where each Of course, the AI also has to work for moveable layers to make this work. Several subspecies of lizards were also developed Early prototypes had five different versions by tweaking certain variables and giving them Joar also saw an opportunity to add more creatures It would make the ecosystem feel more alive, in their own distinct way. Rain World's beings are usually a mix of imagination and therefore didn't necessarily It gave Joar the freedom to come up with a interact with the world in interesting ways. Rain World didn't have a typical development Most of the time, the design process and the undertakings. However, Joar allowed his creative decisions as well as letting technical solutions serve In other words, he was constantly floating which led to better ideas in both fields. What separates Rain World from most other to kill the player. That would go instead Joar's goal of creating a part of. &quot;Instead of thinking 'how can I make this game' I went at it from the angle 'how can that it can find food and move around and So instead of the AI creatures just existing own right, they exist there for themselves.&quot; This results in creatures that can be difficult They're often highly unpredictable and have every turn. However, the difficulty isn't defined by rather how easy it is to sneak by them and That's why Joar made sure Slugcats don't players to constantly come up with new ways of differently structured levels. What's more, each playthrough is also unique room. Joar does admit this can result in a horrifying player has to deal with a bunch of no-win All of these elements combined resulted in release, but more on that later in the video. About a year after it was decided to develop having second thoughts. He was frustrated that the game lacked an mystery to solve. Even though he didn't think the basic premise while simultaneously collecting enough flies bad by any means, it would probably get boring Ideas for a more linear experience, combined and taking care of slugcat pups, started to It culminated into a fully fleshed out story world mode. Even though the pups made it far into development, with a different story scenario. In November 2013, Joar and James started thinking After multiple attempts to complete and release project was far from finished. Aside from adding more polish and the desire mode now also made its way onto their ever Furthermore, while Joar was now working as making that much money, making it difficult After contemplating things, Kickstarter seemed would hopefully be enough to finally finish The Kickstarter was launched in January 2014 In just three days, the goal was met and on donated more than $60,000. During the Kickstarter campaign, Steve Gee, at the time, reached out to offer Joar and Adult Swim would help take care of the marketing if the Kickstarter money wasn't enough to On top of that, Joar and James would remain While having no intention of partnering up represented a foolproof way of realizing the The duo accepted Steve's offer. Having a publisher meant taking care of lots So, to make it all official, Joar and James The kickstarter money combined with the publishing work on hold and focus solely on Rain World The first order of business was to upgrade something more modern and transfer all the Joar eventually chose C#, mainly because it therefore seemed like the best candidate to minor tweaks. Picking the right engine took a while longer, Much of the next year and a half was spent In the meantime, Joar upgraded the game's shadows and a varying amount of light depending to implement since the very beginning. It turned into one of the more challenging See, Rain World's levels consist of 30 layers other in order to create a slight 3D effect. In short, this kind of setup made it difficult After lots of trial and error and trying out that didn't impact performance too much. Speaking of performance, to accomplish the where every single creature perpetually exists, Joar needed to come up with a new way of rendering performance. Before the switch to Unity, creatures would meaning only their position was saved. Joar wanted to push things further and make and still interact with each other. For this purpose, he started laying the groundwork framework". This framework separates creature attributes The cosmetic layer for example includes art functions. When a creature is off-screen, Joar could keep the AI layer active. That way, creatures could still exist and impacting performance. In 2015, freelance illustrator Allegra 'Del' art and key art illustrations that could be She also helped further shape the look of certain qualities that were inspired by Asian As development continued, she became an integral Del and Joar came up with the idea of designing different ways of traversal. The vulture for instance has the ability to its way through small corridors. One of the most important additions to the They were created to play an important part intelligent than the other lifeforms. Additionally, the scavenger's design was that paid for the reward to help develop a Joar wanted each one you encounter in the procedural generation to create the Scavenger's used for the lizards. Once the creature's cosmetics were taken could give every Scavenger a distinct personality The earliest implementation consisted of three From these, three more stats are derived: Later on, Joar also wrote an AI system which It transformed the game's current static being re-evaluated based on events caused A key part of this system is called "Social like, fear, temp like, temp fear and know. It tracks the relationship between the player scavengers. This boils down to a number of gameplay mechanics scavengers to form tribes, choose tribe leaders, be neutral towards the player when you first However, if the player starts to frequently a tribe will eventually send a kill squad On the flipside, if players decide to help for instance, they'll eventually become Scavengers will then share their resources attack. Eventually, forms of social memory and dynamic creatures as well and this, combined with more interesting behavior. For example, if a player knocks off a vulture's Maskless vultures will also get attacked by If the player holds up a vulture mask in front Packs of yellow lizards will get disorganized If you offer food to a lizard, it might become The game's Rain Deer will bow to other Rain These are just a few examples that illustrate and special. And that's not even mentioning its lineage being killed by the player to be replaced As a reminder, all of these complicated AI background, since creatures are always in on-screen or not. After the Kickstarter, Rain World's audio Back when James and Lydia joined the team the idea of Rain World being a small retro audio to 16-bit video game sounds. By 2015, the game had gone through so many that James felt the current soundtrack wasn't The game's new and improved moody, immersive organic approach to sound design. Out of the 130 tracks that were already made, the current version of the game and discarded From there, James started experimenting more Joar's original sound effects, like the Even though they were recorded using the built-in and running them through several sound filters, Excited about these early results, he began with everyday objects, a method better known Apart from using junk audio, James also applied buzzing insects, wind going over an empty After some sound editing and applying more tracks a better sense of cohesion than before. Rain World's minimal use of dialogue, or meant the music needed to fulfill the role James' favorite sound in the whole game It was made using multiple layers of sampled intensifies. Various gritty elements, distortions and filters to a deadly rain. Lastly, James added heavily pitched and distorted vibe that would instill a sense of fear and Furthermore, Joar and James developed a dynamic 8 to 12 layers of threat music depending on With more danger, more bass will be added, a full-on soundtrack will accompany the game's Each region has their own unique layers of To avoid it becoming repetitive, each layer many combinations possible. When James began taking on more level design was there to make sure music and sound design 2016 was mostly spent adding finishing touches In an update on the devlog, James addressed were and how things have changed for indie He mentioned the time of indie developers and selling lots of copies, is over. Nowadays, James believes if you want your many different roles. You have to go to an endless stream of conventions journalist that reaches out, build support He compared it to running a political campaign. Spending years of your life on one project into it, it's a big risk to just throw it On March 28th 2017, after 6 years of development, to Carbon Games, it was also ported to PS4. It received mixed reviews from critics. The art style, fluid animations and soundtrack was too much for many reviewers. Gamespot for instance wrote how Rain World's demise, causing frustration. They gave it a 5 out of 10. In many instances, the difficulty became the complex ecosystem mostly went unnoticed. Joar admitted he wasn't expecting all the "It never crossed my mind that I was making Then, when it was released, that sort of became But that's never how I thought of it. I thought of it as a simulation, and what the player is just another creature. There are no special cases for the player, same way as all the other creatures. It's not a world that revolves around the User reviews on the other hand were very positive. Players that took the time to learn the ins to have a great appreciation for Rain World. As a result, the game became somewhat of a Videocult released several content updates mode that featured local multiplayer, 50 new game easier or more difficult. In December 2018, Rain World was also released In March 2022, it was officially announced Akupara Games. After a long legal dispute with Adult Swim rights to Rain World back. There wasn't much they could say or do while why there was such a big gap between content Since the game's initial release, some fans and lore. One programmer with the username AndrewFM in September 2017 that added five new slugcats, However, it was only compatible with Rain While Andrew was working hard to fix this Years later, almost 40 programmers joined mod. When it was confirmed Videocult had the rights a collaboration. Their teamwork resulted in Rain World Downpour. It contains the previously mentioned five rooms across ten new regions, unique storylines, up to four players and more. Downpour was released for PC in January 2023 to wait long for console versions. To go alongside its release, the base game Remix that made it much more accessible for When Joar looks back at the development journey was key to keep himself motivated and to build "Post every day on your dev blog, even if Try to always have a picture, or even better, And be technical, the devblog is as much for for others to read, so really let it be a blog or hype vehicle." Another piece of advice from Joar is to start The barrier of entry for game development tutorials, Stackoverflow and other tools. Of course, this also means the market is more Joar is catching people's attention. "If we suppose we are indies, large scale we have to catch people's attention by being He realizes he was very lucky to team up with reliable co-developers who are in it for the "Games take years to produce, with many little guarantee of success. It's impossible to make progress if people reasons." As for the future of Videocult is concerned, Rain World to all available platforms, Joar experimental projects as a creative outlet. Joar was mostly interested in creating a 3D It reportedly was passed to another developer project. In 2020, the studio started sharing multiple titled Signal 001. Aside from some 3D visuals and a handful of is actually about. What is clear, however, is that Videocult is excited about what lies ahead.