(upbeat music) - Most doughnut shops or early morning and then But we always want people they can so we make them in small batches throughout the day, so anytime you come, you're gonna get a fresh doughnut. The dough is the most because it's the canvas Our doughnut kit that we the secret ingredients, and Certain things in this cannot mix, otherwise the yeast is So we mix these two right before. Nothing else in the recipe and that varies depending on the weather, the humidity, the temperature, and so once you make the first batch, you kind of tell like, maybe maybe it needs a little less. It kind of talks to you and that just comes with experience. Food is very linked to identity. Being away from home is what I was born and raised in Mexico City. There's a lot of flavors that always have a Latin influence. This is our Mexican cinnamon tea. It smells so good. Mexican cinnamon is more Like we tried it with different varieties and so this variety just lends Like you can't taste the It's kind of like seasoning. So now everything's gonna We're gonna add the butter. My intention when I were that even if you were it's delicious on its own. And then we also use nutmeg and we fresh-grind nutmeg I feel like all those little The dough is really nice kind of elastic dough that's very smooth, like nothing sticks to my hand. And so now we're just gonna The dough is going to rise. The yeast is gonna make its magic. That's gonna help in the texture. It's gonna make it be sort of that fluffy, but with a bite kind of You know, I always say I'm kind in many ways because I started I'm not the most organized so I think that my approach There's a lot of stuff that with the touch, and the That's something you just acquire. Nobody that works here had experience making doughnuts, including myself. So once it's proofed, then it's sort of where the hands go in. When you make things by that goes from beginning to end into every single thing that you do. There's intention, there's purpose. It's all about the human connection. You're kneading all these emotions, you know, I really believe that. The sheeter is a machine that mimics someone rolling out and to be consistent. Every single one gets cut by someone. The little hole gets cut by someone and then each one gets that it's as round as possible. Afterwards they get proofed What we're looking for is a doughnut that when you flip it, That's very important. If you touch it right after it comes out, you could hear it almost and then inside it has a Danny Boy is our salted brown What we're gonna make We're gonna make a caramel with this. So here we're gonna wet the sugar. So we mix it and the reason is so that none of the 'cause then that can There are certain flavors that we have that people come specifically for. Danny Boy is one of them. We're going to create a deep caramel. Use your sight to see the It's sort of like when you smell it, you can almost taste it in It just needs to smell like deep caramel and taste like the Now it's ready. I'm gonna put some cream. Doesn't that smell amazing? Nice and dark, everything is smooth. And we're gonna add the butter. So this is our brown butter. We make brown butter for and we have different depending on what we're using it for, so this is gonna be for our Danny drizzle. Brown butter is butter that over a slow flame and the milk It sort of separates like Depending on how far you take it, it smells like different kind of nuts. Sometimes it's like hazelnut, Once it dissolves, then we're ready. So now it has quite a lot of butter so it's inevitable that it separates so then all we do is You have to be careful so you don't burn. I have a bad caramel burn So now we're gonna make the glaze. And even though like it has like a lot of similar ingredients, they both taste different I always like to think of so nothing is like one note. This is warm now. I'm just gonna add the brown butter to it. The butter has melted. It's like this beautiful brownish color. Add the sugar. So there's a word in Spanish called sazon, which means seasoning, but oh, I put this little It's something that comes from within. It's what makes that thing We're gonna add confection This is gonna kind of thicken it. So you see it's all beautiful, silky. There's no lumps. It's not too thick, it's It kind of drips, you know, I love that. And those little specks that you see, that's the brown butter. Once everything is glazed, on top and then we put some pecans and we're gonna finish it with When I did this one, it was oh my god, I love this flavor. So I gave it to my and for some reason I wanted I was just so excited about it. - Mm, mm. - And he went like That's why it is Danny Boy. It's as sweet as he is. We do a couple of different so we do the classic. We do a regular classic braid, and then we do like a flower that was inspired by making challah. I'm Mexican and I'm Jewish and we do like these round When you tie it together, it just creates more of a bite to it. This is our passion mango flowers. I like to use a lot of tropical I just like colorful things, but I don't like to use And then here, 'cause we want to kind of These are poppy seeds. There's something almost very Like when I'm glazing, you feel you know, something like that. There's just like a lot of movement and it's not something that you can rush. It's like the last point Mexican culture is very colorful and I want that to be I like things that are layered, whether that is just literal visual, there's a lot of heart that goes into it, a lot of struggles in personal ways and it's sort of like that I had for a long time. This is a very personal These are called Fan-Fans. Before opening the shop, this is the first thing So this is more inspired by an eclair. First we make just a little hole. This is just so that it doesn't squish it too much. And so we have a couple that we never take off the menu and our most popular one by This is a cream cheese filling and this particular cream cheese is from an Amish farm upstate New York. This one is just so creamy and now I'm gonna top It's so good. I mean it's a classic combination used in a lot of places in Latin America. I'm literally drooling. This is a walnut graham It just adds a lot of texture. Whenever I have it, I'm like, I need a minute. - [Producer] Do you have a favorite? (producer laughing) - I just love it. It's so good. I'm gonna have one more bite. (upbeat music) Fan-Fan to me, I can't even It's a very personal place. It's about community. It's sort of going back to of who I am, but also what I And often it's rooted in nostalgia. I miss home a lot and that's We always try to have a very happy, joyous music and have a joyous kitchen. I feel you can taste Even if it's for a moment, So I feel like what we It's to bring joy.