This is my brand new, custom-built satellite And in about a month, she'll be zooming by way up But what makes SATGUS so special is that she's got and her sole purpose is to take your selfie in And it gets even cooler because if you tell me the the satellite will not only take the selfie over will happen. So if you go out yard and wave, you'll technically It's incredible we live in a day and age where decide to build something and send it to space. So today I'm going to give you a six step crash build and launch your own creation to space one And these six steps are very near and dear to my first learned when I was a young engineer at NASA So for step one right out of the gate, you got a that stands for computer aided design. And it's really the first step for anything that From Mars Rover to an iPhone to a hammer to a CAD is critical for visualizing what it will look should go where. In our case, after a few months of the design this and it might look really impressive and in ourselves a lot of time and money because this is About 25 years ago, a couple of Stanford space needs all the same basic elements like solar So instead of everyone having to start from standardize the basic necessary hardware and Of of the most common sizes used, the smallest is than a Rubik's cube. And then there's the 2U which is just two Rubik's And this is the size we're using for SATGUS. The way it works then is all the hardware satellite, like the flight computer, takes up this But then that leaves all this extra room for the In other words, the purpose of your satellite, In our case, that would be a camera and a screen So for your first creation you'll be sending to I highly recommend you make it a CubeSat because from tens of millions dollars to hundreds of So I want to talk about what's actually on SATGUS, But first, let's talk about what makes it unique, the pictures. Once we get to space and everything's looking on one, we've got a Google pixel phone and a and then on the other, we've got a camera that's space environment. So once we beam your picture up to the satellite, will take an HDR picture and then beam the image And you'll notice there's actually an identical SATGUS as well. That's basically a full backup system since we problem with the primary camera. For power, it's not feasible to run an extension so she's got two fixed solar panels that dump The solar panels provide enough power to fully if there are optimally pointed at the sun. But this actually creates a big problem for us. We have to point this way at the sun to charge up but then we have to point this way at the earth to at the earth to take the selfies. So how do we move around in space when there's no push against so propellers wont work? Well, here's a hint, see this cube, it's just any thrusters or propellers attached to it either. And yet when I push this button, I can get it to magically rotate and then stop. So can you guess what's going on inside to make Well, if we take off the panels to take a look, Because angular momentum must be conserved. If the flywheel starts spinning one way, physics maintain equilibrium. So if you orient these three flywheels we call other, then you can spin them up and down to want in space. And just like you could see here, they're Now because rotating the satellite is critically flywheels once they get to their max rotation oriented 90 degrees to each other. These are super genius and such a simple design. You can even make yourself where you just run a And when you run a current through that wire, it You can see proof of that here because when we But that new magnetic field, will want to line up magnets want to line up together. So you can see here, simply by turning it on and magic, you can change the orientation of this Another challenge we have is SATGUS needs to know earth, so it knows when to snap your selfie as a bunch of other reasons. To solve that, we've got a GPS on board, but that So for orientation, we've got an IMU just like well as two star trackers that take pictures of pictures to understand which way you're facing. But sometimes they can't see the stars because the So there's also two sun sensors that locate the sun and those work great for course measurements. For the penultimate critical piece of hardware, we For that, we've got two different radios, one slow There's a UHF that has low data rates and that's then an S Band which is for higher data rates like And the final piece of hardware on SATGUS that is the flight computer. This is the brains of the satellite and it takes then makes the choices on where to spin and take For step two of building and sending something to are four main ways, space tries to kill you. So we need to investigate each of these and make The first is that it will try and shake you to Technically, this actually happens on the launch But the rockets necessary to escape the earth's rumble inside the rocket is strong enough to break Especially if you're vibrating at the same rate as And here's what I mean by that. You know how if you push someone on a swing at - Is that too high? - No! - Is that too high?! What?! Fire! But then if you push at the wrong time, you - Everything has a resonant frequency from your in an earthquake. - To illustrate, I've got three masses here that all They're just attached to different rod lengths. So as I increase the shaking of this base plate, Oh, there it is. for the long one. It becomes like the swing because we're adding until it breaks. And now once again, if I increase how frequently the resident frequency of the big one. Now, the longer rod is fine but the middle one and now it breaks. Now, if I do this once more and maybe pause at the and maybe I pause at the second, and then I crank it all the way up, we get close, but we never quite hit the resonant And that's the key. The shaking base plate represents the rumbling, We have to make sure all of our hardware has a the short one did. So it doesn't break off like the longer two. But how do we do that? - Well, remember that CAD model we created in step to double use because now we turn it into a finite This means we take the whole structure and divide Each chunk is small and simple enough where we can will affect the chunks next to it if you start So now the computer just has to solve lots of opposed to one single impossibly difficult for the whole satellite and each individual part After that, even though we know we won't overlap go really bonkers, it's still a pretty violent So we use that same finite element model to make strong enough to even withstand those lower level The second way space tries to kill you is it wants Here on earth, we've got a nice cozy atmosphere heat from the sun and then moves it around through But its space there's no atmosphere and no wind. So in a single orbit, parts of the satellite can as -112 degF in the shade. That's like going from nearly twice the hottest the coldest temperature ever recorded in If we don't protect against it, those temperature pretty fast. So once again, we use that mesh that makes the Only now we investigate how heat spreads through or in earth's cool shade. And once you've done that, you now know where to computer, so we can make sure it doesn't get too and then surface coatings as radiators to make The third way space is trying to kill you is to An hour in direct sunlight in space is equal to an Thanks again to our protective helpful atmosphere. So we need to effectively put sunscreen on the thick enough piece of metal or glass or else the sources would damage the electronics. But how should it be? Because we have a very tight weight budget, we heavier than it absolute needs to. Well as an example of how we figured that out, we chamber that mimics the harsh space environment, lasted about 10 minutes, which is pretty Plus it looked really cool. And so now that we know exactly what amount of calculate how thick the aluminum and glass below that value. In our case, the necessary of sunscreen ended up radiation hardened glass that's five millimeters Speaking of super advanced phones in space, we make this whole thing happen. Google pixel was the obvious choice to take the specifically tested durability, bright high that accurately displays all skin tones and then Starlink to provide satellite coverage to keep you So they were experts when exploring how to And the fourth and final way, space is trying to We don't always realize it, but we're at the means our body is constantly pushing back against But if you remove all that air pressure to mimic vacuum chamber, you can see exactly why and when they're out in space that pushes in all Now, of course, our satellite isn't carrying foam and lithium batteries that one put in the that could damage other equipment if we don't take - So there's a couple other small things to watch But those are the four main ways space is trying But you'll notice, I didn't say you need to worry - This might come as a surprise if you've ever seen of satellites and other objects currently orbiting The problem is those satellites aren't drawn to representation of daily flights across the United SATGUS doesn't even need thrusters to avoid collision happening are so incredibly low. In fact, if you calculate based off volume of space is 1 million times less crowded with And then things about how rare it is to ever see Just to be sure though, as humans, we actively earth that are larger than a baseball. And there's international rules now, if you put a disintegrate after a few years. So before we move on to step three of our mini now is a good time to point out SATGUS will only before it burns up upon re-entry. So if you want that space selfie, you're gonna using the link in the video description. Once you're on the site, it's pretty You just upload the selfie you want and then nighttime earth photo bombing. You, you can also select if you want to take the exactly when we're gonna snap the picture. So don't forget to go outside and wave at that When you submit your picture at spaceselfie.com, patch in the mail, but it means you also have a California in a month or two with me and my team. And of course, all of this is free if you're a become one now, if you want to give that perfect Otherwise, all you gotta do is just sponsor one great choice. But I'll just point out if you're like me and one those moments where you learn something new, like video so far. Well, then you're going to love the CrunchLabs Or the CrunchLabs Hack Pack if you're a teen or In both cases, they get delivered right to your really cool science and physics that make them For example, box subscribers already learned all video because the first mechanical toy we put where the physics principle we discuss in the And for Hack Pack, we take it up a notch with a box with no programming required. But that is a fun incentive to dig in and tweak We make it easy to level up the robot's And since the holidays are here, there's nothing Nor is there a better gift to give and an in your life as you watch their confidence, On top of that, I promise you'll be guaranteed to picture of themselves actually in freaking outer So to get all that just go to crunchlabs.com or thank you, we're giving away either one or two Alright, so now that we've completed step one, the all the math and analysis to make sure it will we finally have the confidence to start step And as is tradition here, we're just gonna knock Once your space hardware is all put together, hardware-software test to make sure everything is So for us that includes things like unfurling and our camera and our screen and running a full I mentioned earlier, SATGUS actually has two Now, hopefully we never end up using the redundant stops working for any reason because we can't This is actually pretty common when designing Even my own hardware I designed for the rover had Both these doors could open and accept an though the dirt actually went to the same place to So once everything looks good, all you need to do Okay, fine. Sadly, googly eyes aren't allowed in space. Now that it's officially built and everything which we referred to at NASA as the shake and Basically, when we analyze the design in step two, extreme vibrations and temperature fluctuations Now it's time to run some tests by shaking it and predictions were accurate. For the shake part, we attach SATGUS to a shake Also shake it at a bunch of different frequencies frequency issues with any of the hardware. Now, the intensity of the shake is a little bit So if she survives this, we now have both ride to space. We're also checking to make sure nothing comes For example, if you don't glue your fastening vibrations can actually cause them to unscrew For the bake part, we put sack gus in a vacuum maximum and minimum temperature three times and for extra peace of mind that once again, both she gets to space, she'll have no problems with So once you're done with the shake and bake and still working perfectly, now you can load it into When you get to orbit, the dispenser will stay mechanism inside it will gently push SATGUS out Another nice feature of this dispenser is that it the satellite. This serves to further limit the amount of shaking It's the same kind of thing tall skyscrapers use You could see how much this tower shakes when But if we separate it with rubber pads, now you So now with everything packed up and ready to go, SATGUS will be launching on a SpaceX Falcon 9 from Now when you launch your own creation to space, I most inexpensive option by far. Also when you book a spot on the rocket, the pizza as you select all the options you want, such options or even add-ons like extra fuel. Now, Vandenberg might seem like an odd choice to Because we want to take satellite pictures over that circles this way around the earth. We need an orbit that circles this way, so we have underneath us. Fun fact: spy satellites also have orbits like So to get this kind of orbit, we need to launch to over water. And this makes Vanderberg an ideal choice in the Now, if you're sending something to Mars and you to be as close to the equator as possible because you're already moving 1000 MPH hour to the east as launch from, say the south and north pole. This is why in the United States, those missions south as possible and both launch east safely over Now, SATGUS won't be alone on this trip. There will be be anywhere from 50 to 100 others of the Falcon 9. That portion that carries the thing you care about And on the Falcon 9, it's big enough to house a Below that at the bottom, you've got a big liquid then a smaller identical set near the top with a eventually separate when we get to space. So after a very dramatic and very powerful liftoff off nearly 8000 sticks of dynamite, The Falcon 9 launches off the coast. It takes about 2.5 minutes before it's traveling Now it's time for the main booster to separate stowed away. What's really cool though is that it falls back to autonomously back to a landing pad so it could be This is one way SpaceX is able to fly things so reusable and you'd have to build a new one for Now, the remaining single engine fires itself up and 30 seconds later, three minutes after launch, all the satellites as the engines continue to It then continues accelerating for an additional Getting up to a speed of five miles per second, which point just nine minutes after launch, it Now it'll just silently coast for close to an hour each of the satellites including ours one by one And this brings us to our sixth and final step of Once SATGUS ventures off on her own after a couple everything's going great. After that, she'll stretch out her solar panels We'll be monitoring all her vitals from this And after a couple weeks when everything is start taking the selfies. And she'll keep taking selfies every single day approximately 1 to 3 years. And this might seem sad but there's no way around starts bonking into more and more air molecules as her down even more. And because she has the energy of a 55 pound heat builds up dramatically from so much air glorious hot fireball. And to give you a sense of just how much energy this is a model of our satellite subjected to only which honestly is a pretty epic way to mic drop a I've been working on creating the satellite with And after all that, we're currently right here in in a month or two. So let's do this together. Go visit spaceselfie.com, upload your picture and you'll even be selected to come out and watch the Since I was a kid, gazing up at the night sky has Seeing all the stars and even our own galaxy and amongst all those stars. That wonder sparked my first love for science and So in some small way, sharing that wonder with all for the next generation of big problem solvers. Let's do this With the holidays right here, what about getting Or how about even a free college tuition? That's awesome! Well, in either case, CrunchLabs has you covered the platinum diploma. If yours has it, college tuition is free for you As for the thinking part, of course, you get that adults, if you always wanted to make and build first step, Hack Pack is it. Because you're getting a series of really fun your door where we build it together and learn go into making the builds on my YouTube channel. And they work with no programming required. But since my goal is to take you from wherever easily hack the micro controller brains of any of level up the functionality. There's also a community where you could share AI chatbot named Mark Robot that will check your creative ideas. So no matter what your age, this holiday season, and get or give someone their actual picture from link in the video description, where to say thank we're giving away either one or two free boxes as Thanks for watching.