"And then the Flood swept over". So reads one of the quasi-historical compilation of all the far back into pre-history and legend. This line, the history of the world into the rulers that came En-sipad-zid-ana -- each of whom supposedly ruled that came after, the more familiar, though still Uruk. The antediluvian world, that is to say, that as the Sumerians are to us; unrecognizably foreign kings, heroes, and cities recognizable to bisected by this flood, and proper history only prehistory follows a similar trajectory; there through careful archaeology, and then there is The story of a great flood which covered all the to be rebuilt by the survivors, is a story video. And if you're listening to it in English, Biblical story of Noah from the Book of Genesis, survive God's purging flood and repopulate the familiar to 19th century Britons, which is on Dec 3 1872, an Assyriologist known as George a baked clay tablet, found amongst the ruins dated to 2600 years ago. All well and good for except that, it wasn't the story of Noah being the flood was named Utnapishtim, not Noah. And it was the God Ea, while the God Enki takes pity an ark, you could say, to survive. Some 20 another tablet dating to the 17th century BCE, was discovered and translated, telling the man who survived the flood was named Atra-Hasis -- was named Enlil. Many times this story had been sometimes Utnapishtim, sometimes Noah, or has been warned about a coming great flood he is instructed to build a boat to In Elden Ring, that flood story, and the story is told not via ancient cuneiform tablets, oh, yes, tablets too. But unlike those great told by the descendants of the survivors, here we can do we cannot in the real world -- gaze upon it brought upon that which came before it. In our forever confined to myth, like those early names distant, foreign, and unknowable . But here in the people who survived the Great Flood, and just Chapter One: The Great Flood In our previous episode, we discussed how the overlooks them are both derived from the culture from just prior to what we think of as the to Tree Monotheism. And while they are no doubt burial seen in many varieties throughout the exceptional in many ways. They are massively quite a particular purpose. To say that they not capture the essence of this astonishing scene. MSG, and concluded that it was a kind of sure, but it doesn't really convey what these massive structures still abound. Why these massive stone coffins, why now, and why, oh why, are they all embedded into the and doing so will shed led on origins From Charo's grave we can gaze and see the stone coffins positioned suggesting that they washed ashore into this rock. the "colossal stone coffins of unknown origin that make much sense, now does it? As discussed last so them washing ashore makes some sense, but how just onto the beach, but embedded into the rock even more confusing. Here the stone coffins are and solidly into the surrounding rock. Of course video-game logic so to speak, but if we are to that the stone coffins were encased in rock, found themselves in all different orientations, itself swept up all around them, a literal deluge result of the passage of time. While it's true buried under soil and sediment, organic material into solid rock. That is, unless, something occurs And, wouldn't ya know it, we have encountered All across the Lands Between, the older things rock. We discussed this at length in our Divine you're interested, but the basic idea is clear which underpin the world -- best seen in places the highroad cave, the mountaintops of the subterranean, having been been fully submerged say about Rauh in particular and the origin upcoming video. It's possible of course that as in tunneled, although their peculiar features embedded in the bedrock is more akin to how steel the way a strong structure would become embedded It is less like the way timber beams would be because while such pillars would appear with into bedrock. Indeed, the way both builder stratum seamlessly, if partially, embedded into bedrock and that the rock was liquified. No other stone without the sure signs of chiseling into the enveloping stone usually makes sign of surface tension of interfaces obtuse angles inward that would be Moreover, the Forge of the Giants, a free-standing as the builder stratum structures, is also the Divine Towers, certainly among the most structures in the Lands Between, all have a as if waves of the rock itself crashed and how you can even see the rock drawn onto the map indicating that, to the developers, this is a quirk of model rendering. Trust us, we considered a meteor impact ejected rock (ejecta) onto the not face a single point of origin, indicating they were just... unfinished? But closer and then later some layer of rock covered them, by The fact that the Divine Tower bridges, clearly distinct masonry and iconography, were spared this covered the divine towers in rock occurred after This is the essence of stratigraphy. In the end, event occurred which partially covered the Divine forge, and covered the structures of the high road Stratum constructions, burying them so completely But we can go even further, for these inanimate have been buried by this great cataclysm. Before as we like to call them, the Titans. Absolutely large descendants, these Titans lived in a most clearly in the mountaintops, where the to much larger skeletons of their progenitors, the and whatever killed them it was not the who were summarily executed during Godfrey and the rock. And we mean embedded. Here, deep beneath the surface layer. Again, basic it happened a long, long time ago, and it was structures and partially covered the Divine the great deluge that ended the prior world, Except that, unlike the Mesopotamian it was not a never-ending rainstorm, a great flood of molten rock. If you imagine a fusion of we've alluded to before in previous analyses. The be something like the KT boundary, the geologic of dinosaurs. This layer, found all around the cataclysm that ended that previous age, in this back, the oldest rocks in the world date to just 4.5 BYA, so, what gives? Well this is because of a frequent meteor impacts re-liquified the entire and, suffice it to say, ending and obscuring save for the stray zircon crystals, before the this event, this great flood of molten rock, it can be used to date the end of the Titans builder stratum structures were built; after the but before the likes of the Divine Tower bridges were built. By the same reasoning, it Dynasty and the Land of the Tower, which have the SKL did in our world, history is divided So the Stone Coffins of the Cerulean coast became builder stratum structures did, they were caught a great flood of molten rock. That certainly helps orientations; anyone whose seen the footage and that such cataclysms are not exactly orderly. the stone coffins tell us more than that; they but that someone foretold its coming. A Noah Chapter Two: Arks of Stone In our last video we discussed the who is depicted in monumental form through the and simultaneously clutching a tablet of a Tree at the Imago Mundi, lies broken and discarded at of the cerulean coast tells us that whoever or perhaps even by his command. And then, after along in a sea of molten rock, before finally now solidified rock. The fact that we find Great "Given in tribute to those who died the most would become legend", indeed suggests that But there is one, final peculiar their shape. Specifically the fact that while their bows are completely flat. At first this developers thought we wouldn't notice. But from reveals the final piece of the mystery. This is to be piloted, or navigated, to have any sort the opposite of a hydrodynamic design, a giant sense once you realize they were not meant to these aren't ships, they're arks, built in That explains why they have this peculiar shape; In fact, the descriptions of the ark from the was round, and famed Assyriologist Irving Finkel version of the Kuphar, a circular style of boat the 20th century. Not exactly a cigarette boat, goal. And modern attempts to recreate Noah's Ark seem to be basically a giant coffin, rectangular history of the Mesopotamian ark looking rather and certainly not something someone would be see sails or other methods of propulsion on these Ancient Dynasty obelisk. Though we do see ships this world are certainly capable of that. If explain their odd shape, their lack of sails or to have been made at once, based on the fact that we know the flood was not a flood of water, but of strange fact that these are made from stone. a situation, so in fact, building the arks from If the Dynast is the one depicted on all the Arks, one who commissioned their construction. If so, two distinct Iron Age Mesopotamian, or if you the survivor; Moses, and Noah. On the one hand revelation, but on the other, that revelation great tree, but also the coming great flood that one. In the last episode we suggested the Dynast a possibility, but to come clean here, we were the flood narrative. Point is, if the Dynast is a the arks, he's probably long been a convert, coffins as the catastrophe unfolded, seem to have Flood myths are by no means restricted to kind of flood myth has led to some unfortunate but But the Mesopotamian myths are certainly the or Noah, or Utnampishtim all follow a shared God) for his virtue. The Noah character is simply like Atrahasis, he is already a ruler of coming flood catastrophe and is instructed how and the animals of the world survive. This indicate just what caused the cataclysm. If the and he is a believer in the cult of the sacred or some envoy of it, is what warned him. So golden star bearing the Elden Beast, vassal of the leave that discussion for another day. Point is, enough to be warned of the coming catastrophe and Atrahasis narrative, by the way, these animals which could help explain that curious scene of the stone coffin fissure.Not mention in that version perhaps helping to explain the particular design versions of the story, the ark is constructed, and After floating along for many days, the survivor boat to determine whether there is nearby land. becomes the progenitor for all subsequent races Noah. A new patriarch, a new dynast, if you will. never forgetting the story and lessons of As it happens, this is precisely what we see we will return to now. On the top register there presumably, these are the only 3 the survived the across the cerulean coast, and those that had They started out as arks, but they became stone and instead died and began rotting ultimately leaking out as putrescence. The the one which will be resurrected as a likely bovine skeletal features, supports the within these coffins. But the 3 surviving arks the next register shows them cultivating sacred and, for that matter, to the People of the presentation of the fruits of the harvest, which if you believe some of our kookier theories. the new civilization of the Ancient Dynasty where the civilization of Babylon, Ur, and Uruk, after the flood, here the Ancient Dynasty begins the great feats of civilization, grand libraries, the massive ziggurats which inspired the Tower of And speaking of the Ziggurats, we mentioned inspired stylistically and thematically by the down to their nearly synonymous names. while Babylon derives from the Akkadian of course it is Babylon that lies at the heart But beyond that, the structure which inspired probably the great Ziggurat of Babylon, known as famous in its own time and throughout later according to the Wiedner chronicle, suspiciously similar phrasing to the "column that And although we know quite a bit about ziggurats example we know its dimensions, we know which God it, what we don't know is exactly what ritual was Supposedly, there were rooms for the various which housed nothing more than a suspiciously room was used for. According to Herodotus, "On the with a fine large couch in it, richly covered, no image, and no one spends the night there except that the god has chosen. The Chaldaeans also say the temple in person and takes his rest upon the would ritually marry a special woman, chosen that atop the tower that stretched to the very elevating a divine couple, one human, and one God.