od morning everybody, good morning, it's JPR, movepools, these are all factors that go into a competitive sense. But in Generation 3, Game served to make or break a Pokemon: Abilities. and don't make a huge difference on how good generations where we had stuff like Tangled Feet their users worse, but more often than not, have some like Intimidate that take a decent elevates it to the next level. But beyond that, Abilities that are pretty much the only reason An overly extreme example is Shedinja, a die to a hit no matter what, except there's making it immune to 13 of Pokemon's 18 types, Pokemon. But Shedinja is a rare case of a Pokemon not the other way around. So let's take a look at became amazing because of a certain ability. When Serperior first came out in Gen this Pokemon was pee-pee, poo-poo, stinky up with Calm Mind or Coil to pull off an unlikely definitely need to take out any Pokemon on your Power you're running, because that's virtually all after 3 long years of waiting, Gen 6 would finally Contrary. Contrary is an ability that flips the Intimidate actually raises Serperior's attack because you only need Contrary to work with one it so Serperior can not only spam a base 140 power boost upon every usage. This one ability paired Serperior from the trenches to the top overnight. cementing it as one of the strongest Starter coming back in 2011. And it's not like Serperior's Glare got buffed as a good utility move, but Leaf Storm and whatever Tera Blast you're Power. Serperior may be a one trick snake, The same can be said for other Contrary users no redeeming qualities to them other than this Serperior though is that they still kinda suck to spam Superpower and that's it, pretty much and even then Superpower doesn't hit nearly The next Pokemon on my list is a little bit of Araquanid. Now sure, Araquanid isn't tearing or being used by every VGC player in the does have one thing going for it in its ability, rolled into one. This ability doubles the power and gives it extra resistance to Fire. Most a base 170 power Liquidation without the threat scoff at. Despite all this, yeah, Araquanid whereas without this ability, I doubt most players I can't blame them, as an arachnophobic I might smack it with the pole instead. puts many Pokemon on the map: Prankster. Granting this ability is especially useful in VGC the value of this ability was on full display at when an absolute murder of Murkrow took over the 15% of teams, according to Pikalytics. Why? Well, existence of its evolution, Honchkrow, but also making it one of the few Pokemon who is just take away Prankster and both of these guys One other Pokemon that falls into this same rare but useful ability, Friend Guard, which ability is intentionally only given to pretty bad Jigglypuff, but Clefairy actually makes it work to be considered a viable Eviolite user. And Me, it actually carves out a pretty decent niche that Game Freak definitely didn't see coming. we may as well talk about Gastrodon, who has high usage in VGC for several generations now, Storm Drain, an ability that draws in converting them to a special attack buff. The is carried by this ability is because its almost Seismitoad and Whiscash. The three of these statwise, and they all have nearly identical is arguably better on paper than Gastrodon is, has overall higher stats. But the one thing that it's a pretty good move to have. But yeah, Storm On the topic of Water/Ground types though, ability to rizz up the crowd.....I apologize for bill with its Hidden Ability, Unaware, in front of it. It shares this extremely Clodsire, who also has Water Absorb to negate just serve to make Clodsire even bulkier than it Hey there, just popping in to say that so if you're enjoying the video, I would Another Pokemon who actually became usable Impostor was added in Gen 5, it allowed Ditto without burning a turn to use Transform. This to use Transform to begin with, seeing as how remember that Limber is even Ditto's primary just gets cast off to the void immediately. effect of making Ditto's signature items, Quick these only activate when Ditto isn't transformed. setting abilities are in Pokemon, especially Torkoal and Pelipper who all somehow have the ask me how that makes any canonical sense, but them, because everybody already knows how good falls into a similar category as Serperior, with one other attack, that being Grassy Glide, one-button Pokemon. Even after Grassy Glide took a mows more lawns than Hank Hill on a weekly basis. Pokemon is carried by its ability in both singles accounted for, Rillaboom can just throw out a Outside of Grassy Surge, we also have Electric outside of Tapu Koko is Pincurchin. Is Pincurchin Surge didn't exist on this thing, I'm fairly that it exists. I know because this is my go to but now that I've said that I should probably terrain setter, look no further than Indeedee with only remembered for its ability. Let's just Indeedee holds strong at around 10-15% usage. teammates, but the female version in particular Psychic Seeds item, and even deal substantial The last terrain setter is a bit of an odd case is actually completely outclassed I'm talking about Galarian Weezing, and by has almost always been an underwhelming it still is, nothing has changed. But in Weezing an incredible buff with Neutralizing ability on the field. I know, you might be what's so special about Neutralizing Gas? This to shut down opponent's strategies that involve or it can be paired with teammates like terrible abilities to make them actually good. to talk about a little guy whose ability makes so that is Terapagos, with its ability Tera Shift, form into the Shell form at the start of any where abilities shouldn't activate at all. This be turned off by Neutralizing Gas or other means me wonder why the Baby form is even a thing toys....actually, that's probably the only reason. completely different stats if this form isn't creating extra work for themselves sometimes. would be really bad, but their abilities carry other examples you can think of? Let me know like this video if you enjoyed, subscribe if