I want you to try whistling. - Please, no. - Then on this show... No, I can't whistle. [rock music playing] Aparshakti: The golden team. Two firebrand talents and a memorable I'm talking about How can we forget the miraculous partnership that helped India clinch victory And Dada's (Sourav Ganguly) t-shirt twirl Until this day, India was not known But this match completely changed it all. And, today, we are about to speak who were a part of this glorious squad. Yeah, let's go. Take as many retakes as you want. I know. Flintoff did, I tried, - How are you, Rahul sir? How's it going? And Ajit Bhai. Good to see you. - Yes... - Jam (Rahul Dravid). Whoa! Wow! Today I was trying to do the Dada act. I want to know, when you saw did you expect he would do that? I was shocked, to be honest. &quot;What is Dada doing? What's happening?&quot; - Yeah. And I remember, And I was pulling his shirt down Not letting him remove his shirt. Maybe, I don't know, Bhajji's body Yeah, I was just about to say the same thing. I mean, the only thing that Dada regrets is that he might have had to train England is such a sport loving nation and we were in the finals of NatWest, So, I want to know what was on your mind We hadn't been very successful in finals It was a bit of, I guess, a bugbear for us So I guess, from a team perspective, and a certain level of excitement You know, an event at the Lord's, the atmosphere is something different. It has to be experienced. - Of course. - is a real occasion. Usually, the support is so much and it's one of those venues but if you can start liking that venue, So we did have doubts I don't think till that point I think, we won every now and then I think Yuvraj Singh, Kaif and then Dhoni Wow! Kaif, what a game In those days, chasing down a target It wasn't easy to chase down Yes. Before that I would... like to thank Mr. Rahul Dravid. He took up wicketkeeping and that's why Otherwise, you'd always see an all-rounder A batsman wouldn't fit in there. So... It was difficult to get a keeper... - Thank you. He was a brilliant keeper. He never dropped the ball. Thanks. But don't ask Anil Kumble Anil Kumble would always tell me... - &quot;Please&quot;... I would say, &quot;It's not my fault Anil Kumble and Harbhajan Singh If they bowl down the leg side, it's not A batsman can't read their minds, That's true. Now that I am in this show, What was the discussion you had Did you easily agree when he asked you to? I was asked &quot;Will you try?&quot; &quot;Will you try wicketkeeping?&quot; The last time I had done any sort - Aparshakti: Oh, wow! after I skipped. - till I was 15... &quot;There's no option. You've to do&quot;. No, he would be like I said, &quot;I haven't kept wickets in 15 years.&quot; You were a keeper-batsman. Till I was 15, I was a keeper-batsman. But then, I was not that good I remember, we had hired a wicket-keeping - And... For that series You always catch a ball with your hands. You know, I was good with my hands as I was one of the slip fielders. So, But my feet movements were terrible. And keeping is a lot about your feet Which is why I was &quot;terrible&quot; But, yeah, it was nice and it was great. We could then give the opportunity which is where people like They changed the dynamics of the team. So, seven pure batsmen. Were you thinking that you would - No... and had a discussion The best part was that Ganguly than the panic that he showed on the field. He said not to panic in those 15 overs. and our team would be out of the tournament. So we were asked to save our wickets And we did follow it. When your leader The start given by Sehwag... From outside... The atmosphere of Our form... As a batting unit, Mr. Ajit, we've heard a lot of stories. Dressing room stories of Enlighten us on those. Was there any kind of... People say Yes, Dada usually ignored... [all laughing] Where did you get that? It's true. No, it's that John Wright used to Exactly. I think, John Wright was Whenever the situation was tense, and very nervous. People would think while he would be writing some random things And Dada was equally calm. So, I think that was the exact relationship But, Mr. Kaif, you had dropped Wasn't it shocking that Aparshakti: &quot;Kaif dropped a catch!&quot; - It's a big thing. Aparshakti: Yes, that was making headlines. I was at the covers... We didn't realize that the catch Trescothick was the batsman. and the pitch favored him too. It was a fast ball and I didn't Bowlers often complain - &quot;He goes a bit ahead.&quot; Now I won't defend - It was hard to convince bowlers. The captain would be &quot;Can you please &quot;See, I'm also trying but...&quot; So he would explain his theory. Then we had to convince the bowlers Whenever they told me, I would go back. But when he went for a run-up, he wouldn't So, Mr. Rahul, people often call your team There were legends and legends-to-be, I want to know about the youngsters, Back then, who was your favorite? There was no favorite as such. who came in that era like Ajit, Kaif, Zak came in around the same time and a lot of these young boys which forced a lot of us to start looking &quot;If he's fielding like that, I better start Talking about the energy, I'm sure seniors were not, - But when... It's a good thing that you don't know. - Good energy to have. But when youngsters came, they got In the dressing room or in the hotel So, when the youngsters came, Who would say &quot;Let's chill&quot;? Viru was the most relaxed He didn't care He'd score a decent amount of runs, so it And the best thing about Viru and would say, &quot;That's an easy six or an easy four.&quot; And you're batting next. But, yeah, he made it look really simple. I think that's the fact You know, walking in to bat and batting with Viru a lot of times... You know, he is whistling tunes and I'm thinking... But that was not who I was Firstly, I wasn't good at whistling. And I don't think if I was that relaxed, You must have tried at least. After getting dismissed once or twice, Dravid, I want you to try whistling. No, please. We are not on a field, - My kids can whistle but I can't... On this show... Will you do as I say on the show? No, I can't whistle. There's no chance. So, when five wickets were down and Yuvi and you were on the ground... Especially when you have just come you had to prove yourself So, how tough was that? Before that, the way that game and Sehwag with the hopes and then came a twist five wickets in no time Then I went in. When you watch the match from the balcony Sachin got out and I had to go in to bat. The duration from there to the ground... ...is about two to three minutes. You get down, cross the Long Room The members there don't budge. Members don't budge like &quot;What will you do? There is nothing that you can do.&quot; I felt like they were saying that. And the crowd was also leaving. Sachin got dismissed, so they thought The best part was that I had played So there was an understanding. No one speaks about the runs that we took. We took good runs, built the innings and played decent cricketing shots. So, if you have already played together you share a level of trust I remember, I was sitting behind. I was sitting on the physio table inside. And when their partnership began, We kept sitting there. we would go during the breaks We just kept sitting there... when there were that I came out into the balcony. I just scored five runs but I felt as if there was my contribution in Yuvraj As if I'm scoring runs. When five wickets were down normally players from the opposition so what were the fielders Nasser Hussain said &quot;They've sent the bus driver in, So when I hit the winning run and when I crossed him after that, I too answered him &quot;Not a bad innings for a bus driver.&quot; - Wow! This is not something which he would do. - Our senior doesn't do that... You can't relate to it. I'm sure. I found that if I started conversing on what I was supposed to do It was very important or bubble or whatever I called it. And then I figured out At the end of the day, or won the game like Kaif, There's no point abusing someone you are sitting in the pavilion I think Zak was pretty good at it. Zak was pretty good at it. Harbhajan, I think, was... - Every now and then, he liked a challenge. - He was... Anil... Whenever he got hit, he'd start - He would get upset sometimes... Yes, to anyone. - But that's what got him... &quot;There's no run!&quot; We would say, &quot;Anil, why vent are playing well, vent your anger at them. So, this is one of the most interesting games in the cricketing history of India. What were your families doing at that time? And what was their reaction My family was watching a movie. They had been to watch a movie. - Went to watch a movie? Sachin got dismissed - Superb. They thought that there's no chance The door was locked. They thought my family is inside and to avoid the crowd they are hiding inside as they can't handle the crowd. Then they realized they aren't there My family had to come out of the cinema hall. - Wow! When I returned to Allahabad - and the welcome that I received... I realized I have achieved something. Winning the final at the Lord's. I remember, when I reached Allahabad, - I was taken in a jeep. My house was at a distance of five So throughout the journey, scores of people. some were waving flags - Aparshakti: Superb. The guy sitting beside me held my hand [all laughing] I said, &quot;Yeah, okay&quot;. But that was... For me, it was quite a unique Yeah. You weren't married back then. So, when you were sitting in the Lord's the younger Dravid, you know and girls were always... Even today, there are girls in our team Even today, when you are married. So, maybe they will feel bad - So... - Better say that. - &quot;Just say that again.&quot; Perfect. I genuinely want to know that when how did you feel back then? If you had asked this question outside, I don't think, on the show you are going to get an honest answer. I mean, I was a focused guy, man. - I was just focusing on Yuvraj and Kaif. Well played, anchor... The best thing about Rahul is that When someone is dropped from the team he would call them up. We would get a call... He said, &quot;Kaifi, it's just bad luck. Keep winning runs. You will get back. I thought &quot;Wow! Dravid is calling&quot;. I have also been yelled at. But then I would wonder It's okay. But Kaif is a good person. - It's okay, I will keep trying. But that was good. That was good. I want to know about the atmosphere after winning the match, you know, We haven't seen such a flow of emotions... I had never expected that Dravid - Aparshakti: Yeah. It was one of those games where... I'm sure the Indian team - but didn't get through from there. And specially after losing five wickets with relatively young players playing... Experience wise and age wise. So... I think that has not happened. If we had to chase 150 or 180, then maybe we would have gotten across the line But a target of 320... When it actually happened Yeah. That was... I don't think the members running down the steps and running So all these members just parted and, But, yeah, it was... It built up. You keep wishing them, and then Bhajji comes in and plays - Zahir Khan running between the wickets. If it had hit directly, Yeah. That was a moment wherein till the last Because if Zak had been dismissed Nobody wanted that. Now I've a segment for you called LBW. It's called &quot;Let's Be Wicked&quot;. And, in this, I'm going to just give you names and you have to give me Yuvraj Singh. More sensitive than you think. Yeah? I want to say a clown but I'm - We will stick to that. We think it is a difficult task &quot;No, I did it in the morning&quot;. And we know he is not telling the truth. - Oh... would say that he hasn't done I didn't know this. Otherwise I would have... - All the things that Yuvraj said... It's a joke. All the things that - Aparshakti: Yeah. - No, I love Yuvraj Singh. - Okay, Sachin... - Foodie. Yes, organized. Walk into Sachin's room - Actually, you're right. Wow! Superb. Dada. - Lazy. because he used to wake up late. He always wants a crowd. about 15 to 20 people around, He seeks people who speak the local language. who speak Bengali, he is never at ease. Great runner between the wickets. Sorry, Dada. Sorry, Dada. Wow! Okay. Laxman. - Laxman... - Aparshakti: Sleeping beauty. Oh okay. - Yeah? - Always in the shower. There would be three minutes to go and bat - Oh, wow! He used to pad up when the batsman gets out and has started walking Anil Kumble. Say it. Earlier it was &quot;Sorry, Dada&quot;. He has to go back to Bangalore. - Temper. On the field, yeah. I was actually going to say Yeah? But complete contrast as - Absolutely. on the field. Nothing... He even had an argument Inzamam is like &quot;Why, Rahul? Why is this And Inzy was also so relaxed, so calm. And he is like - With Afridi too. Yes, at Peshawar. You get angry with Afridi, it's okay. But getting angry with Inzamam? He never says &quot;Rahul, why is he fighting with me?&quot; We have always seen him angry. We were usually at the covers And he was never satisfied. He would never be satisfied with his Okay, last one. Virender Sehwag. The things that took an entire day for him ducking, sweating Sehwag would finish it in two hours. Outspoken. Sometimes it is too much. So this is the end of LBW. Thank you so much for that trivia It was a great game. time and again and to speak But for now, for the upcoming World Cup we want predictions from you - Which two teams... - Yes. India Vs. Australia. - Don't mind the handwriting. India Vs. Australia. Okay. Wow! - India... Oh... - Aparshakti: Was this decided? Thank you so much for talking to us. Thank you so much for being on this show. most of the things that we spoke about What we got to know today was genuinely, - Thank you so much.