What is a passkey? Hi, everyone. Askleo.com. In the coming months, you're going to I want to describe exactly what how they're different from passwords Honestly, I'm really excited about Okay, so password, passphrase, pass key. What's the difference? Well, a password is a traditional word. Now, we don't necessarily recommend In fact, the ideal password is a string but it's usually a single thing, 20 characters or more that act as your your password, prove that you A past phrase is basically a longer The canonical example that we've used for Those are four random words. There's a conceptual way of thinking about But it's a very long, easy to remember password of a regular password for services Of course, don't use correct horse battery Make up your own. A pass key, on the other hand, It has nothing to do with anything And honestly, that's pretty cool. Now, I do want to preface all this It's based on what I understand As it turns out, passkeys are implemented has proven But fortunately, you don't The conceptual high level overview will why they're safe, and how you'll Passkeys are based on cryptography, Now, we'll talk about the public part behind this cryptography is that it's Semetric cryptography is That's where you have a password and then you use that same password Asymetric cryptography Basically, there are two large numbers. They are generated together and they have a very special And that is simply this. Call them A and B. Anything you encrypt using Similarly, anything encrypted using In fact, if you encrypt something with A, You can only use B. So they are asymmetrical. You use one to encrypt and you Great. I find it absolutely fascinating mathematical magic, It's so much magic. Now, I've talked about The fact that these two keys, A and B, have this weird relationship means you can I can make one of them public. I could just give it to you. So if I keep my A secret and I make the B key public, two things can happen. One, somebody can use the B key, to encrypt something that then only I can That A key is kept secret. It's a private key. That's why it's called private Anybody can encrypt something using the B key because it's public, This is a very useful and fundamental technique to sharing encrypted Now, the other interesting thing you could do with this is I and anybody can decrypt So what's the point? The point is, if that decryption using the B key is successful, that only I could have encrypted it encrypt it in such a way Anybody can encrypt something using person with the private key can decrypt and anybody with a private key can encrypt to prove that they are the ones Okay, great. Now we've got this public Let's go ahead ow do we Well, you end up creating, We have a key pair A and B. Let's say you want to use it What you end up doing is you give one of those keys, we'll call it the public you give one of those keys to the server and they put it in a special place So they store username and public key. Now you come along and you The server basically says, in effect, I'm going to encrypt the number that I'm thinking of using what you Now I'm going to send Tell me what number I was thinking of. Because they used the public key only I can decrypt that data, decrypt that data and then tell the server You must be You, I must be Me, This technology that I'm describing is I've literally been doing exactly what years as I connect to my Linux servers, happens to be hosted on. It's wonderful because I never It's the possession, the fact that I have the secret key in The server holding the corresponding to confirm I am who I am Great. Pass keys. Now, let's finally talk about pass keys. Pass keys are essentially exactly what I've just described with one I started the public key authentication description by saying Passkeys actually do all that So they do set up The public key is kept The private key is kept on your machine. And I'll talk about how that's But when the time comes for you to sign in, then Google does the same Again, conceptually, Google says, I'm going to encrypt it If you can successfully decrypt it, you must be holding the corresponding It really is that simple. Now, one of the things that is a little interesting is that passkeys are unique So for example, when I sign into Google, I might have a passkey set up for my I might have a different passkey set I might have a different passkey for I might have a different passkey and my PayPal account on my laptop, Yeah, there's a lot of passkeys. The good news here is that It's all handled behind the scenes. It's nothing you will So how does it get set If I'm not keeping track of it, how is it getting set up and how There's a few scenarios First off, let's say you're creating a brand new account, and you're only going to use You connect up, you create your account. By definition, you are you. You are the person creating the account. Therefore, Google can, create a key pair and store Because like I said, you are you. Now, when you come back later to sign in, You are you and you don't Now, if you're adding passkeys to an existing account, then you would sign in to that So for example, in the case of my Google and my two factor authentication, Okay, let's set up pass It does so. The key pair gets generated. The private key is stored on my machine, and now I can use pass keys for that Now, set up to use Pass Key authentication, in our first scenario, but you want to now Well, you go to that device You then will have a number of different options depending on the service You may be able to sign in some other way which at that point would But I said that this account is Well, on another device that is So for example, if I'm signing in on my phone I may get a prompt on my desktop If you then say, Yep, that's me, boom, the phone gets a key pair Or you would confirm your sign in using some other technique like clicking or an SMS text message that is sent to you phone number already But once you've gone through this bootstrapping process of securely then the key pair can get set up A lot of this seems almost too good to be true because there's a lot All of this is happening How can this possibly be secure? There are two parts to it, and in fact, the two parts contribute to it being The first one is simply that, Let's say that the service you're using with passkey only authentication What are the hackers They may walk away with your name, that stuff, The only thing they can get But the public key is public. We don't care who has it because there's that would cause us to do something to try We're only going to use that private key when we authenticate Great, the hackers have a public key. Good luck with that. There's nothing they can do with it. There are no passwords to be stolen if passkeys are the only authentication Now, I've said that the private key associated with the passkey That's the thing that proves you are you. Your possession of that private key So that needs to be stored securely. And it is. In almost every case, operating system's secure That manifests what that looks like is when you try to sign in to an account authentication loop, not with the service, So Windows might ask you for... Theoretically, they could ask Or more commonly, because it's that much more easier for folks, you set one up, or your face ID, After you've provided that level of authentication to Windows, grabs the private key that is then used You didn't have to do a thing other than maybe touch a fingerprint sensor, But that's it. There was nothing for you to remember So the bottom line here is that I'm really looking forward to seeing Don't get ahead of yourself. It's going to take a while. There are services that are Google happens to be one of them. But it also requires operating system It's going to take some time, especially for the other accounts They're not all going to switch There's going to be a fairly But my recommendation is that now that you understand conceptually why passkeys are might lose, consider as they show up, There's actually a really good chance that it could all happen automatically Because the operating system, because the services, don't necessarily need They could just start doing it. And what you would notice is that over for that service less often face or your pin to Windows Anyway, I find it really exciting. I'm looking forward I hope this helps you understand a little bit of what passkeys For updates, for comments, for links related to this askleo.com/157308. Askleo.com.