Would you like a free tool or complex tasks? Think about the last you had to in Excel. Or what about the last complicated task you spent hours researching While you were wasting a lot Get &amp; Transform, also could do it for you within minutes. It's like someone is there waving at you, please use me I'm going to and you just ignore it or you don't even know it's there. Let's go over what Power There are three main benefits. Number one importing data Power Query allows you to get For example, from another a folder or from SharePoint. You can connect to different databases, the web, online services or And in all these cases, you're not restricted to Number two, transforming so you can extract meaningful information. Power Query comes with an incredible data transformation engine. You can transform and shape data by simply clicking a few buttons. For example, you can compare two datasets and find the differences between them. You can split data from one You can extract numbers from text, you can calculate hours worked, calculate age, and merge Number three, loading your You can choose to load a pivot table, or load to the data model. Now since Power Query and you can also create relationships and pivot tables based on multiple tables. And here's a bonus benefit Generally, when you learn something, the more effort you put Like that concept applies But it's not the same If you just put in a little you get so much in return. This is the difference and learning other skills like VBA. And that's why I created this course, to give you the tools to really make a difference at your workplace. I'm going to take you from and don't worry if you've never used or even heard of Power Query before, you're going to learn right from the start. But it also made sure that are going to find new in the advanced sections, where we're going to dive in Still not convinced about Power Query? Let me give you a concrete example. Let's imagine you've started and your first task is to provide high level sales reports to management. This is the first data So let's just take a It's pretty big, you need Sales by group customer name, and sales by customer category. But customer group name and category aren't in your data file, Unfortunately, the way is in this format. It's sitting together with the invoice ID, then it's the customer ID, So somehow, you're going to have and then look up the names and categories in the customer master. And that's the other problem. To download for the customer Let's assume we didn't how would we solve this? I'd probably contact the IT department and ask them to find a way as an Excel file and not a text file. They're going to need to Once I get the Excel version, I'm going to add the customer to my invoice data file. For the first pivot table report, I need to get customer Now to get that I need the customer name, to get the customer name, This means I need to figure out how to extract the customer ID from the middle of this This is a bit of a difficult task, so I probably do some research online to find out which formulas I can use here. Then I had add a helper column to find the location of the first dash another helper column for the Next, I'm going to look into to grab the customer ID, write the VLOOKUP formula Unfortunately, I get errors for VLOOKUP. And after some research, I in the customer ID, I inside the trim function. While that doesn't solve the problem, it looks like the values are seen as text instead of numbers. So let's use the value functions instead. Okay, that seems to work. Now we need to figure out how Now this is going to together with trim and ease Finally, let's calculate the sales amount. That's a lot of thinking, In the meanwhile, my spreadsheet But whatever, I'm finally ready Let's insert that and Update the formatting and Saving the workbook may take some time, but I deserve to go for But wait a second, wasn't Damn, there was. Okay, here it needs the customer category. This means another VLOOKUP But now, I need to expand my pivot source to include the new column. Let's create a second pivot table. (gentle music) Put in the fields we need That's a lot of work. Now, let's check out the Power Query way. Let's keep our reports So let's open a new get data from workbook. Browse for the file and transform data. Let's extract the customer ID. We don't need the other information, so let's just go to transform, extract, text between delimiters that's customer ID. Change it to a whole number. Let's get total sales, keep what we need, and create Now let's import the master (gentle music) Let's add a second by removing the information Let's create a connection. Now we can merge these and The common column is Let's just keep the information we need from the customer file and Arrange our fields and we're done. (gentle music) Let's set up the second pivot table, exchange our fields Isn't it amazing how easy Let's go back to the first version with a complex Excel formulas, let's check out the size. It's 41 megabytes. What's the size of the Five megabytes. The old school methods gives me a file that's eight times bigger. The size is not the only In fact, for me, the best part is the simplicity that it comes with. I don't have to worry about Because even if I'm good with formulas, I end up spending a good chunk of time trying to figure out Plus, with Power Query, to the source files. Whenever I get updated information, I just have to refresh my pivot tables, and my job is done. And that's only a small part Your job doesn't have to You don't want to miss out on this. Come join me in my course, (gentle music)