On the 19th of June the oceangate submersible remains here, in the north western atlantic. With a descent rate of 55 metres per minute reach its destination. With each passing minute the equivalent of to the subs hull. By the time it reached its target depth the be attempting to crush it. Applied to just an area a little larger than to the thrust of a Saturn V F1 engine. Pressing in from all directions. An hour and 45 minutes into the dive. At the bottom of the Ocean. 3800 metres down. With this immense pressure bearing down on The oceangate submersible lost contact with We now know the submersible imploded, a sudden A tragic accident, however any composite material and they did. I worked as a composite design engineer and failure prediction. So, let's dive into the questionable engineering a tragic accident. With that pressure comes some extreme design Oceangate's Titan submersible consists of window, joined to a filament wound carbon [REF] Inside the submersible is pretty barebone. Some screens that are fed data from cameras The four electric thrusters are controlled gamecube controller. Many people are focusing on this part of the We will be focusing on one design aspect of Carbon fibre composites aren't really known They work best in tension. Great for airplanes that are pressurised from Where the pressure inside the fuselage works the fibres in tension. For a submarine, the pressure will work to under compression. This immediately set off alarm bells in my so I began digging into their justification Oceangate chose this carbon fibre composite These types of subs actually want to be as Meaning the weight of water they displace Minimising the energy needed to rise or sink This means to surface in an emergency they that make them positively buoyant and they The carbon fibre composite can be lighter target. Typically submarine hulls are made from steel achieve the desired buoyancy they need foam OceanGates CEO Stockton Rush, who was inside skip this foam layer because it added to costs. That isn't necessarily an evil thing if This is where things get iffy, oceangate had and we know this because they admit in their not test their vehicle with a regulatory body. [REF]. The now removed blog entry read: Most major marine operators require that chartered group regulators that vessels are designed, constructed Classing may be effective at filtering out the established standards do little to weed of marine (and aviation) accidents are a result As a result, simply focusing on classing the Now, I would have thought this wouldn't red flag has been written on their own website wealthy and successful people didn't seem otherwise. Perhaps most submarine failures occur due undergone rigorous testing and certification. The comparison to aviation is also just a catastrophic accidents to compare to, where procedures. These aren't procedures created as some They are very useful guidelines and testing catastrophic failure mode in your design, One failure mode is unique to composite materials Some of the first evidence we got for it was It's called snap buckling, or delamination For thin walled pressure vessels the failure simply caves the entire wall in, but here, deal with the immense pressure of the deep This failure mode is characterised by delamination basically the inside of the pressure vessel leading to catastrophic failure of the overall The exact mechanisms of the failure mode are this 2022 research paper titled "A Review Hulls in Deep Sea". [REF] It states, in its conclusion "investigations on this subject have remained There is still very little research in this So, I am assuming whoever engineered this of research as a YouTuber who wrote a script They must have at least been aware of this A failure mode like this is going to be exacerbated stresses, like those experienced when diving again. They have done that at least 50 times with it. Per their own admission they did not undergo did do their own classification test. One test, stated on that blog post once again. "A licensed marine surveyor will witness the vessel before and after the dive, and completion of the dive test plan." That is simply not adequate. Anything undergoing repeated stress cycles Like the test airplane manufacturers do on of times on the ground. They designed this thing essentially with Composite materials are incredibly difficult Composite materials are far more complicated the material properties are the same in all Composites are composed of fibre bound together If we were to zoom into a small cross section Some fibres, some of them could be touching be spaced further apart, and there can also to fill. We can simulate a small section like this modes, such as delamination. However if we want to zoom out and test a material properties in some way or else the My own master thesis tried to combine the an averaged composite material. There are specialised softwares that can model still very much an estimation. You need to back this up with physical testing. Something OceanGate didn't do. There are more signs of incompetent use of For a critical structure like this, I would That's basically a pressurised oven that out of the epoxy resin. Autoclaves are expensive, and can be difficult like this, but it's nice to not have air However, it wasn't used for this pressure It was simply bagged and cured, a cheaper Spencer Composites was commissioned to make back in 2017 in a compositesworld article. He seems very aware of the immense design that the porosity of the cured pressure vessel "Less than 1% voids" doesn't exactly Is it 0.99% or 0.0001% porosity? That's exactly the type of defect that's as voids can be propagation sites for delamination. The blog post goes on to dismiss classification which is just complete narcissistic nonsense. This isn't innovative. They have just made the pressure vessel from practices, and started charging rich people Innovation would be creating that pressure Figuring out the causes of snap buckling and This is profiteering, not innovation. To eliminate all doubt that this company has This court case from 2018 was brought against shortly after raising concerns about the composite Stating not enough was done to check for delaminations Oceangate argued that the technology to check this thick did not exist, and instead they which essentially listens for the sounds of But this is what a carbon fibre composite It's a cliff edge. Sudden catastrophic collapse. An acoustic monitoring system like this is is coming. You will see the lighting before the thunder, Pure safety theatre. It gets even worse. On one test dive in the Bahamas, a submersible ears and warned Stockton Rush that it was Stockton, once again, chose to ignore an expert's So this acoustic monitoring system was purely To give customers, who don't have the engineering of security. I would attribute this to malice and greed, trap himself. As the Hanlon's Razor goes: attributed to stupidity. There is this growing trend in engineering Mostly driven by one overconfident CEO who an entire industry with that ethos. That incriminating blog post even mentions bastions of innovation for this move fast Virgin Galactic too have blood on their hands, was attributed to inadequate design safeguards of oversight from regulatory authorities. This attitude is dangerous, and this won't CEO's putting lives at risk. When a doctor is negligent to the safety of but the impact their incompetence has affects responsibilities it can affect hundreds, thousands, We need more people like David Lockridge, over safety. The very first video on this channel stated To inspire the next generation of engineers, we need engineers going into the most impactful To solve the largest problems facing our civilization. You've probably heard a lot of career advice: love', 'take the initiative', etc. etc. But a lot of the advice out there doesn't we have for what actually makes for a high Today's sponsor, 80,000 Hours is a nonprofit the question of how you can find a fulfilling Everything they publish is based on careful experts, and taking into account the best And because they take this evidence-based on hard questions like: make a positive difference in the world? What are the most pressing problems facing What can I do today to start planning a fulfilling They have published over 30 articles on one of AI. They have a website with tons of collected which lists currently open roles they think a podcast where they have conversations with problems. Everything they provide is free, forever, aim is to help solve global problems by helping can. If you join the newsletter now, you'll get career guide sent to your inbox - just sign the button on screen now