Bucha is a city located 20 km from Kyiv. Russia launched a full-scale invasion of Ukraine. Two planes flew directly over the houses. My boys and I began to strengthen our positions . in Gostomel there lay half a body in the garden, days of horror there, in principle, it was a terrible picture, we heard people being interrogated, they took the phones, they took the documents, they tied us up This road It was the Road of fear, active planes flew to us, dropped shells on us, there were tanks firing from No one has ever mined your bridges, Uncle Kolya is starting to fly in, the shelling is on, damn it, now it's the aviation. Well, he's flying here, everything breaks down, and now and then, wait. I'm preparing a solyanka there, and they pointed machine guns at us, we didn't know what to do, we just raised our hands in the car, well, I I remembered that I had the baby's first things at home and I was going back to take these bodices. The brotherly blinker arose precisely because the occupiers did not allow people to be buried in the cemetery at all. Where are you coming from ? the city is located 20 km from Kyiv, this picturesque town attracted with its beauty, development and modernity, but everything changed on February 24, 2022, a terrible day, a day when people woke up not from alarm clocks, but from explosions. Russia launched a full-scale invasion of Ukraine by me. ] operations [music] From that day, Bucha became a completely different city, the whole world learned about us because of these terrible events that will forever remain in the memory and will be engraved in the rough Scars of Poltava . we just have an air corridor where, well, through Gostomel, this is an air corridor where planes land and here they flew through it, they blew up in adrenaline with their wife, not understanding like what happened, like, well, like, everything on February 24, how was your day, how did the morning start, the morning started terribly. She came mom said Something started a war and we had to do something. The boys and I got together and started doing something so that they wouldn't come to our city, where were you? Well, did you have some kind of plan? Did you act ? thought that it would happen or believed, no one expected this, the guys and I started to consolidate our positions, went, took weapons in Kyiv and began to defend our city, I was just on shift for duty and we were woken up at six or so in the morning, that's the collection of anxiety, that's what we have, that's all part of it should come Oh, well, in fact, the entire personnel should come part of it And that's all Yes, and they say something, it says something is flying here somewhere nearby, and I generally, well, my sleep is very sensitive . I heard that they were shooting. Well, in general, I got to one place, and then the meat grinder started, and that's all. No one was going anywhere. On February 24, 2022, I was just woken up by my wife, and she heard an explosion, woke me up and said that something was happening, and how I I live on the seventh floor, I even visually saw flashes in the sky. I saw and heard sounds, of course. We realized that something very bad was happening, and that day we immediately . already in the occupation because we used fuel for generators and we went to work and in principle we spent the first day at work, what about me and my wife and when we returned in the evening we already understood that the next day would not be the same as this one. That is, we already understood how much everything has changed, the whole world has completely changed 4:20 somewhere like this, in my opinion, I heard the first baboons in the guest house, I just woke up and I was at home for an hour, and just then he was at home and woke up and was supposedly mentally ready for her. not completely No, but I understand that there is no illness, I am not ready, but the first one goes, what does he do, there is no information at once, but it is interesting . Putin declared war, I woke up from the explosion, at that moment I did not understand that it was an explosion in one of the cars the alarm went off in the yard, this happened before, and later I saw how you were buzzing in our chat Chat Help, incredible activity began, then My friend Yaroslav Hrabsky dialed me and said Well, my friend, Good morning or not, and after that, My friend and colleague on the project dialed me Oleksandr stopped and together we began to think about how we should act and what to do. The link in the story on our Instagram. We sent people to our Telegram chat for communication . at ATMs, buy something in markets, pharmacies, stock up on water until 6 pm, etc., continue to look for a store in parallel, the Russians fired at the Gogastomel airport Antonov [music] helicopters, two helicopters, one was shot down, and the second one was shot down [music], the enemy sabotage and reconnaissance group near the entrance to the city were also destroyed they destroyed the convoy of the Roshvardya went to the store information about the shops buchantsy works ATB now they only accept cash We go there they say they say it works That's how I hope you can buy [music] with a card there [music] the first convoy that came in on February 27 and we did not understand where Where did they go? That is, they were broken up at the station, but a large part of the military was in various different parts of the city, that is, some of them were there on Lisova Bucha, part of it. Because some people called us and said that they saw them marching there, for example, from a military uniform, some black Russian tanks broke into the center of Buchi, Russian artillery shelled the city, damaging several houses, buildings and other infrastructure, residents reported that they lost access to water, gas and electricity due to the shelling, the Russians also mistakenly attacked a Brdm2 installed on a pedestal as a monument to Afghan soldiers, and the troops used rocket and artillery fire and airstrikes to to stop the advance of Russian troops, the State Special Forces of Ukraine were informed that one of these artillery strikes destroyed a column of Russian armored vehicles that was moving along Vokzalna Street. We were in the basement. someone told you about her, well, friends who went to Bucha wrote to me from Gostomel. Well, it was as if the Russians were standing in Gostomel and marched to Bucha from the station. I understood that it was basically us, and dad said that the battle was approaching according to the sounds and let's hide and we Literally in 10 minutes we ran into the basement and already heard what happened. The ground rumbled because it was a very, very scary sound. We were in the basement. I don't know. It seemed to me that our house had collapsed three times and someone had put it back because it was all ringing. In principle, we were almost underground, we have such a small hole in the mountain for ventilation, we covered it with Styrofoam And with some rags, it flew out all the time due to the force of the explosion, it flew on our heads, half a body was lying there in the garden, well, if the husband had told not to let the child out outside because there is a corpse lying there half like that Without legs without the upper part of the head Red Beard there is a token of all matters Well, he is a Russian, of course, in this, what are they called in a sailor's dress in such a striped one, and for some reason they don't know, well, it was a Kadyrovite, that is, we found out later and in the window of the garage was broken and there was such a big bone with meat lying next to it, well, a human bone, maybe its eyes are human remains that flew to you, where did they go ? that they will be taken away, but they were not taken away. We covered them with a bathtub. We had such an old bathtub. Well, because you probably can't move them, well, as far as I understood, we just covered it with a bathtub because we understood that the smell could escape because we have two dogs and a child goes out into the yard for a walk. then the Russians took him away. By the way, the Russians took him like this. And how did they find out about him? We told them that your fighter is lying there. Well, the fighter. If in the past and they took him away, what was left of him was there. What were your impressions when you went to the station street and that's all they saw, what they felt at that moment, no, I can't even know there, you know, there's probably no mention of feelings there. What a shock and hysteria and all this together and misunderstanding. I went to the school along which we all grew up and used to run. And how can this even be, well, that is, a couple of days ago, OTT mothers with strollers walked children to school, and now it is simply gone. Well, there was no such street, that is, the photos that were already exhibited later it was all extinguished it was already over there the rain had passed there a month had passed And at first, when it was still burning, these gas trucks were burning, it was really very Well, there were no sensations, it was just a shock, that's what snowed, it's the whole Vokzalnaya street. This is how Kadyyrovtsy came, and they left for the next world. what was the snow falling O guys Bucha 11:30 I think it's demyth substation there myth giraffe equipment went in the direction of the apple tree the armed forces of Ukraine stopped the enemy column Vokzalna street the city of Bucha these are the results of their invasion and the work of our armed forces of course the private sector which was also damaged nearby but everything will be rebuilt all alive and healthy armed forces of Ukraine worked well everything was [music] Ukraine was so devastated by the fighting that residents and journalists were able to go out on the streets and take photos of destroyed or abandoned Russian vehicles and equipment these photos were distributed by the Ukrainian mass media, some described Buch as a cemetery of destroyed Russian equipment [music] anti-aircraft planes were flying towards us, shells were being dropped on us, tanks were firing. Well, a lot of things, and every day there were 30-40 shells from a position just flying in. Again, none of you had ever mined bridges like that. No, never, no. How did you get to that point? as a replacement, the other guys arrived, mined, showed how to detonate if they were going to go, and we did so, then we were already in position on the giraffe, we went and took a position on the krivangal to strengthen and strengthen the positions, what was on the giraffe on the giraffe, the same as on Kaiwangali tanks were firing there. The Kyiv Regional State Administration reported that more humanitarian aid is being sent to Bucha Tarpin and evacuation will begin in both cities. It is reported that more than 1,500 women and children were evacuated by train and another 250 by bus. The armed forces of Ukraine regained control over Bucha and raised the Ukrainian flag over city council of the city of Bucha on March 3, 2022 we raise the Ukrainian flag over the city glory of the Ukrainian hero Glory despite the information of the Ukrainian General Staff about the withdrawal of Russian troops from Bucha and the Gostomil airfield Russian troops entered the city from the side of Vorzel Volunteers who traveled around the community delivered food, for example, on March 3, they came under fire at the glass factory, they were riding bicycles, they came under fire, thank God they survived, but they hid for more than two days, they hid with people, and then, unfortunately, they spent it, were captured, were tortured, and thank God they survived but already in such situations you can understand how dangerous it was to be in the city at all when We understood that it was necessary to reconfigure the work of the city council because we understood that there would be new challenges, new tasks and it would be necessary to organize help first of all for the people, we understood what could happen and power outages, there may be interruptions with products and medicines in the first days, such a situational center was created on the basis of the police station of the Buchan city council, where a hotline is open for just about all citizens who could contact and get this or that information, the first information, of course, is When pharmacies stopped working, shops are people what was the need for medicines, we organized the delivery of these medicines, organized a humanitarian point where you could get food in addition to medicines , the Russian troops intensified the shelling of the city, killing countless civilians, the city council reported that the city's residents hid in basements, and that the city could not receive humanitarian aid help due to constant artillery shelling. I don't know about Polmassiv, but it's burning terribly there already. Well, that's not the case. It's the left one. It started to move to the left. I'm on the left. There's one more torch. Two fakes. Three torches. I see something burning. It goes there somewhere. to vsekh Vsio v oblachnost' No eto yes you were here yes fri days of horror the first night in general was as terrible as we they huddled together, ran in, first of all, the wound was treated for the husband, then the older child went to sleep on that suitcase, such a small suitcase, and there were no beddings, nothing, there were a lot of people here, but the people had already settled down, you understand who was let out of the apartments, who had mattresses, who was on what, and we ran out, do you understand? That's why, plus shock, shock, this state of affairs, the man ran to the car and pulled out a car seat, a fully car seat with my younger daughter in my arms, I covered her with an old jacket, and that's how we spent the first night, the night was terrible, of course, it hurt, it was very cold, such a draft pulls from the door And secondly, what a dream, what a dream of no sleep, you close your eyes and one movie plus rustling screams Well, just like in the basement Because there are many people, this state of shock is visible from the first, and already on the second night, the husband naturally went to the second floor and hid the mattress was dropped straight from the second floor, you dragged it here. Yes, and dragged it here with the boys, and the four of us were on this mattress so that we were spread across. So we slept, the children began to spit out pollen, that is, you are sitting like this, she spat. And she is black, well, the pollen is visible on all organs, breathing is so. I heard, so you understand, I started to shake dust there with my ears, well, in the house, the back side of the insulation is glass wool, she bit very hard, she bit very hard, it scratched and bit, that's why in my ears, I started to scratch it . she put on a hat, it seemed to me that she was wearing makeup at all , she didn't take it off, tights were on, that's how you take it . staying in the basement is a psychological state because that's what happened, firstly, you're a homeless person, you won't have a home, secondly, in your head, what to do next, how to evacuate, how to leave, if we know that they are already being shot there in such a depressed state, plus you look there so that the children it was more or less comfortable. The children huddled in a corner and coughed. The boy was in charge of the boys and the girls, if possible. Who cut, who cleaned ? with a delicacy for lunch, the basement where we spent the night, here is my barn, here is a small one. But how I felt as one place that there would be a mess. In short, there were lying places further there, too, people were making bridges for themselves, and children were sleeping here, the old women were sleeping, the light was not the same curly like now but there was water here No, well, we drained it here and there there is a pipe It is there, even when there is no water anymore, there are still 70 or 80 levs left in these pipes, we drained it and drank it here, in my opinion, there were some tramps if I memory does not betray me, well, this is where our occupation began in the first days of the 24th. When it all started, I ran to work. They still thought that everything would end with something. That it was like something from the plan of cartoons, there is nothing so terrible, but when the first explosions started and the helicopters came in in Gostomel, we already understood that it would be a long-winded thing, so we ran with my father, we opened the basement next door, and this is the basement of our store, and this is where we went down because this is the only place, roughly speaking, we have a bomb shelter only in the fiberglass institute, but no one there firstly, he didn't let them in. And secondly, no one would fit those people in there. And it's unclear what condition it is in. Here we had a place, roughly speaking, a small dining room at this place . from the store, what was left of her defrosting, what was at my mother's. Dumplings, dumplings, cabbage rolls, all that was left were lying there in the freezer. At first, people started buying up everything . Well, the house was in complete chaos. People didn't understand what was happening in this plan, and they just started buying everything chaotically. I'm saying Mom, stop, I need to leave something for myself, we will have a lot of people in the basement, we will simply be left without food, and we will leave certain dumplings, dumplings, what was in the freezer, what could still be eaten, because it was light, what we ate was what was available, and we cooked it right here whether on the street or not, and they cooked here, and when there was light for a certain period of time, the light was gas, then they cooked, ran home to a fast food restaurant to cook, especially there with us Uncle Kolya was like that, he's so damn fearless, he's got two thermoses, he's running home, I'm going to call him, damn Uncle Kolya, he's been shelled, damn it, now it's the aviation, now it's flying, everything's breaking in, now it's here, wait, I'm preparing salt water, like what are you doing to me you worry, then run over there, a thermos of brine, a thermos of stew, a thermos of stew, and some pilaf. Well, he's always like that. We have a cook. Culinary extreme, and at first everyone is like on their own, but you understood there. A day or two passes, well, on your own, you won't survive here. You start moving. Do you understand that the family from the guest house came, well, the people were left with nothing, they came. Someone brought something there. Well, we need to get together, we need to do something. This is the room where the family from the guest house lived. They provided everything for the little ones, they slept on patches of eggs, tell me how the days passed in the basement besides cooking. What were they doing here? I woke up. Thank God that he was alive and prepared to eat there. Everyone was there. Everyone was there. They were alive and well. preparation Yes, because my grandmother used to have such a small one, my grandmother had a radio and there was a color with that radio somewhere, there was a connection there on this very top, I raised it here, well, in general, from here, but not that it is not here, even from above, there is a connection very Well, here it turns out like we are closed at home, all the towers of the communication type are located at the institute on the tower, but when the light disappeared, everything disappeared and there was no communication there, he ran out somewhere to catch one stick to at least send the mixture in my way through D or In three days, the first once it was heard on the radio that there would be a riot from Buch. It was said that there would be a first corridor of some kind. Did you believe these evacuations when you heard the information? No, I understood that things don't just happen, well, something is going to be wrong here. And on the 9th, the first buses stopped. everything, that is, it was their trick, like yes, yes, we give a green corridor, damn it, but in fact, they collect people and then they get some information from them and do what they need, well, that is, and because of that, I say that I did not want to come out I will remind you once again how many people were here. How many people were you responsible for? About 50-55 people. How many days did you spend in this basement? We stayed here until March 9. It was roughly two weeks. We practically lived here. How many people were there? There were three adults and three children, four adults, three children, how difficult was it to arrange everything and stay here, how long did you stay here? may be needed for leisure. Let's say that later and the toilet was equipped almost all the time. They went out here when it was a little sunny, more or less quiet. Then we went upstairs. How did the children perceive this adaptation here in the basement? How difficult was it for them, maybe easy. The children tolerated it very easily, let's say. say Let's say so, I organized absolutely all free time, drawing, sculpting, books, we recharged our phones, they watched cartoons, I, with my emotional state, set them up for the fact that everything will be fine, fine, and more information. How did you find out when there was no Internet ? there was internet, there was no information. None of the neighbors called, no, no, well, we just heard explosions everywhere, then when the tanks were there, we already heard them. And so what was happening, there was no information, so it turns out that you were completely cut off from information. And it was only on March 9 then the husband went out on reconnaissance, rudely speaking, yes, yes, nothing else happened, except that we, I say before that, except that we heard, there was no information, I stayed here with my parents every night. During the day, we went there, my mother went to work Dad was cooking at home, I was cleaning there, I was either helping my parents or helping the local residents, and so we were all ready to leave. Let's just say that I was with each of us until March 2 because I couldn't return. I went to Verpin for groceries and couldn't return. My mother was able to evacuate on March 9. My father remained in the occupation. Well, according to the witnesses, he was specifically in this basement until about March 17. How many people were there? There were about 110 people, and who were there? conditions, well, these are not home conditions. Let's say it's better at home , but still, there was heating. We didn't sleep on the basement. Well, not on the concrete. In case of extreme need, we could use the toilet, which was also in this basement. Well, there was no kitchen. food was cooked and heated mostly at home. Also, in our house, what we called it was a bar counter, here we had a barbecue, we cooked food there, we prepared cocktails, Bander smoothie, as I call it, they did a lot, well, actually, it's enough , maybe three boxes, you have a basement in your house, respectively, for some time how many days did you stay there and from the first day we went down into it when it was very loud nearby And but still completely We were not there because they are unfit for life there it was very cold there it was very Volo I am pregnant in the sixth month On that period for a second and well. We were afraid that something might happen in the first days, we went down there quite often. That is, we lowered ourselves, lowered our suitcases already at that moment, I don't know why, they lowered the dog to us, a labrador, and every time when it was loud, we climbed there and in the first days and under Well, somewhere at the beginning of March, we realized that something is not very safe with us, because the basement itself, as you mentioned, is in our house in the house and it is under the bathtub, and if God forbid something will happen to the bathtub it will fall right on top of us, and if there is such a huge closet hanging above the very entrance to the basement, if it falls, we simply will not get out of the basement to other places in the house. Ours also turned out to be not very safe, the windows, the gas boiler, the gas column, and the last the last times When I was still at home, we went down less. I just hid somewhere from the windows because I understood that nothing would save us from a rocket, that's why we tried to hide from shrapnel, if they didn't, God forbid, there would be some injuries, then from what could to scatter in this way to injure the body from the eighth to the seventh. I was at the locks, this is on the floodplain from the other side, and there we were fired upon. Well, they fired very well there. I received a concussion. And then we already got to Kyiv . and you are here And we already started, then already in the place of death, to base ourselves on different positions, then this evil already began, and it was already there. Yes, the DFTG was already created and we signed contracts, and then it was already somehow the opposition Yizdil And yes, at the beginning of full-scale, we were by themselves in their ordinary clothes and it would have been better if they had not come to our city, how long did these hostilities in which you were involved last ? I thought, but you have to keep yourself in good shape there every day. I think that these are the people who came to me, first of all, these are the people I know a lot there. Who from childhood I was sure that they would not run away and leave me, I was sure of them, there was some possible interaction with civilians, they helped you there, so civilians helped a lot, they brought hot drinks, something to eat, they brought something to eat, and they really forced you not to leave . three battalion-tactical groups, the local authorities informed about the organized evacuation of the population, however, the occupiers prevented the evacuation of people, why did they decide to evacuate then and what was your route? Well, the day before that they were shelling very hard and it was very loud, they started somewhere from noon and they shelled all evening and all night, and in parallel Well, we monitored the Bochansky chat , what people write about who sees what in their windows, and someone wrote about the fact that in Vorzel they place Hailstones between the houses in the direction of Buchi. Google told me that the range is different and Buchi falls under that range . I was scared, panic attacked me because I'm in the sixth month, I don't know what can happen, I don't know what can happen to me now, and I will need help considering all this stress, and I realized that Well, we have to leave in the morning, I was already preparing how to tell my husband, how to tell my father about the fact that I still want to leave, let me be taken out in the morning, we are all hysterical, I was already and we talked about all this, that there is an evacuation train that children and women were being taken away, that's why it was decided that I would go with my mother and my younger brother, who was 14 years old at the time, was leaving the house, driving along Ryvutskyi, just in time to meet the rocket that had fallen in the first days, which I had heard We were driving to Energetikiv, and when I saw all these destructions, my heart sank and it was very painful. We got into the car, I remember how I cried, kissed my husband and promised him that we would meet again, what did you take with you on the road? I was gathering my husband, he put things on me because I was somehow me. When we were going, I was still in hysterics, God, it was still Gupalo, and then he threw me the first things and, well, the first things of necessity, including saying take the laptop. I say why He is difficult for me. I won't take him, take the laptop because you can sell it and there will be some money. Then we were already getting into the car. I remembered that I had the baby's first things at home and I was going back to get these bodysuits in the hope that I wouldn't need them myself. I mean because We planned a partner birth and it was still our first child to meet her together with my husband This road It was the Road of fear I can call it that because we were driving into the unknown we were driving and we didn't know if we would make it God, they will shoot. Well, it was very scary. We left. We saw an open car that had been shot at the intersection of Vokzalnaya and Yablenskaya. It was in an emergency vehicle, that is, it is possible. It is exactly the same shots that we heard at the Bochansk railway station. Maybe it was from this car, but there was no blood on the bodies. I was not there. I saw it, but I didn't pay much attention because we were driving very fast when the Greens realized that it was time to evacuate and there was no need to evacuate. We realized quite quickly, in principle, after the first shelling in the house. part of the apartments, fortunately, our house is a little further from the road, and where did you go next? they were leaving the yard, a car drove by, I don't know their armored car, what's the name of it, there were four people with machine guns, well, there were four soldiers with guns, and we just leaned against them and they pointed their guns at us, we didn't know what to do, we just they raised their hands in the car, they drove a little further, there was a self-defense station, they shot it, blew it up, and right there, part of the house was right there. Yes, we directly heard how it broke, and we saw the fire that started, and they returned just as slowly. We sat with our hands raised all this time fortunately, no one was fired upon, well, no one was shot at there all day. We stood there at the intersection, in principle, somewhere until the 30th, probably the boys, our neighbors who were leaving with us, were constantly walking, watching, trying to find out the corridor, the way, and Well, all the information we received was that there was no permit in that time was already breaking through there, and sometimes we communicated with acquaintances from the president's office and they wrote to us that the corridor was not agreed, that is, turn around, go home in spite of that . the black Sprinter starts up and flies by merrsedees I remember another car in an accident right behind him, well, they drove by quite quickly, no one understood what it was, well, it was obvious that people were confused and the cars just started to turn around and follow them, and so did we discussed briefly and decided to go after them because it was already there, probably 50 cars drove there after him and in fact one huge convoy of hundreds of cars formed . in principle, the picture was terrible, because before that we saw some buildings blown up and burned, but here we already began to see what people were constantly talking about. We saw a huge number of shot cars of civilians. In one of the cars, a man was shot, well, that is, the body was in the car and in principle Well, there was a lot of blood on the road, so it's obvious that there are bodies there they took it away, but there were some, well, Ulyana said that she saw parts of human organs. Well, that is, we saw all this further, already behind the knot, a large number of cars were simply thrown into the flowerbed, and then we already started to turn to Irpin and further into the forest, we already began to meet with Russian they were military, well, there were about six checkpoints at each one, they looked after us at a different point. That is, somewhere it was just a matter of superficially opening the trunk there. Of course, they checked the documents of the men at each stage, and the farther we went, the more thoroughly they checked. they were looking for weapons, they were looking for men with tattoos on their hands, they were undressing. Well, then we realized that they were looking for Nazis there. Yes, and the Azov people on the road, there were a lot of roadblocks already ours, and they, well, I remember at one of them they say where are you coming from We say from Buchi A u We had these white rags on the car, we hung them up there and it said Children. It was written on it and he is like this type. Look at the guy in Ukraine and it is so straight. It was very nice to hear that you have no one to be afraid of here. Then tell us about the evacuation period, what number was it, the ninth number On March 9, Poles heard people calling out, &quot;Let's say yes, because there was no communication and they were very afraid. There were rumors among people that they were talking so as not to get on the emergency buses because there was a suspicion that people could go as a human shield to Kyiv and even to Belarus there. yes, yes, so that the Russians could organize all of this, to first let buses with people to Kyiv and walk behind them as a human shield, how did you find out about the evacuation, and here someone ran, there, too, it doesn't take much, someone ran to the basement and said to the green corridor in 10 minutes people gathered, they even left food on the fire, our neighbors are coming, and I think we will go to ours in line. Well, to go in a column with those people we know, it was you near the civic city council. Yes, but the line was so long that we began to move and found a place near the children's polyclinics, this is the situation, the corner of Bohdan Khmelnytskyi highway, just traffic jams, once again, I'm giving Kyiv a shot. Well, they are driving in the direction of Vorzel, we left somewhere around four in the beginning of the fifth, and we arrived in Kyiv: 3 in the morning, yes, it was an atom, the fact that there was not enough gasoline, the car was turned off, it was cold in the car, plus the fact that we were driving tuk-tuk tuk-tuk two times we jerked and stopped two times twitched and the children became nauseous, spoke less and had a headache, but we got there like a post where a post, well, I was interested in where the post was because somehow the cars didn't stop even though they said that there were like dividing the cars into 30 cars, when we had already approached , I already saw their car standing, like it was a post and two children, my God, the children are 18 to 19 years old. so here he is lying and here he is holding II, you pay more attention not to his face, but to the fact that the muzzle is looking at you, you understand, maybe it was so convenient for him, I don't know why, yes, the first ones did not stop us, then we pass a little further, the roadblock, well, it is bricked up. Two slabs are standing like this these concrete ones. We just started to squeeze in. Well, somehow it was our turn to drive in. The windows in our car are broken, the front glass is broken in the mesh, the side windows are completely covered with a black film, and the driver can only see in one mirror. that in one mirror I shout to the right, to the right, and where to the right, if there are concrete slabs, he squeezed in there like that, to the side, to the side, a car flies by, and behind me, a tank car. That's how you sit, like in this, she calmed down, he flew by, we drive a little further, yes, then we as soon as we entered the Zhytomyr highway, you can see there, too, there were such terrible battles. I remember. We are leaving on this very Zhytomyr highway, and after hours the curfew began, but there is still a little time there, in my opinion, 40 minutes, there would be 40 minutes left, they were not allowed to cross into Kyiv we leave this highway and go to Belgorodka, my way, there and there. We have already seen our policemen. Police cars. Oh my God, it's such a feeling. they start throwing these signals, so-and-so, so-and-so, like the Salute of so-and-so with this fire and then at these signals, people start to arrive, people are sitting, the car is shaking, the wave is coming again, I look in front, people were opening the doors in the cars like this, then everyone understands the first arrival in the column, you understand, because they are hitting the field like this The road also goes into the fields from two sides like only they get into the circle, the only way out is to open the door and run away into the forest, then we are already approaching Kyiv, then I already had such a hysterical feeling. in the evening, the cars stopped for a document check . Four of our soldiers approached each car. Then the doors opened immediately, we looked there and had to show documents. Who, where, how did I get out, put the little one down and put a blanket on her, we all stand like that And where should we go, and he says Well, for starters Go, move into the room to eat, and I say listen We won't go to Kyiv further They don't let Roma I say I'll sleep here I won't go further Du and he says to me It means they have checked the documents so well, let's see, he says the column is moving, people are already starting leave, you follow them. It's literally not far, oh Boyarka, the Epicenter, we get there, we really got out of the car quickly and there we were met by volunteers, volunteers with a mountain of pillows, blankets, winter clothes, jackets, we just walk in like those geese and there the light is on and I remember we stood like that everyone is looking at this light bulb, what is it over there in the Epicenter, these long lamps are coming on, everyone was standing, the light is on, and then we got out, called our friends, they say, Well, first, wash yourself, because you understand what kind of condition we are in. So we went to our friends in Gatne in their house is just like Sin. A little further down, we stayed there for a couple of days and already started to move to the Vinnytsia region. The occupiers ransacked the Buchi City Hall and captured six employees. The first time they came was on March 5. But they didn't come in. They just knocked. The guards replied that there was no one and they they left without even breaking down the door. This was, well, I understand. They were the first time they entered Bucha, already in the center, because they are on the outskirts, maybe they were like that, I don't know. Well, they came and left like that. And already on March 15, they entered, well, they entered It's hard to say. They ran in and started shooting. They immediately broke down the door. They came in with such a noise. They ran around all the offices and started breaking down the doors. They completely broke everything , and when they came to us, we were right on the territory of the city council, because there was still a warehouse where there were food products. we gave out to people who came and we had six guys. These were three city council guards who lived there all the time. My colleague Serhiy and another volunteer, Leonid, who also helped us with food distribution and generally helped with evacuations and unloading. They approached the I was first asked if I worked here, of course I answered no, because I understood how dangerous it was, in general, my position and for them to understand that I work here, I said that I do not work, we are volunteers, we just distribute food, but that was not enough for them, they took it away phones were taken, documents were tied, we were interrogated about weapons, where the weapons were, they threatened to kill me, to shoot my colleague's knee, after that we were transferred to another place, with our hands and eyes tied, were you interrogated separately or all together? in principle, there was no such thing as being interrogated, just when they tied hands, they just asked. Well, where are the weapons, you will always tell us about such a plan. That is, in principle, when we were still standing next to us, we put our warehouses under the wall. By the way, when we called they put them under the wall, we stood there for 20-30, well, under the machine guns, and at that time we heard them, we didn't see them because our eyes were closed, we heard how some of their equipment drove up and they unloaded all the leftover food that people had left they just stole it, loaded it, then they saw that it was simply gone, we heard that they were loading something, I think they were loading it and they took it. It was just what was in the warehouses that was still left, they took it and took us away when they moved it. It was a new highway, like us later already understood 16 That is, it is not far from a house that they took us to the yard and put them on the street and we heard how they interrogated people whom they also brought. That is, it was a place where they brought everyone and interrogated them, and then we do not know what happened to these people, because it was approximately I roughly think that we had somewhere up to 15 people, maybe more people according to their voices. Because I heard people who were brought, they sat them down. They somehow could have asked if there was anyone here . near the church, he says, I was going to my family, I brought groceries, they looked at the phone and took me here, unfortunately, we do not know the fate of these people, because in the evening they had to hand us over to some captain, because the soldiers who were talking to each other, who were guarding us, said that they were expecting someone the captain to whom we were supposed to be handed over, fortunately, he did not come and we were simply lowered into the basement, where we were in principle Well, they allowed us to untie our hands, they simply lowered us down and said that if we want to get out there, they will kill us Staro, right away, because that is already it was dark, it was already night, and we were allowed to go to the toilet, because we sat in this condition for a whole day . in the roof they even bumped into each other's hands and it was such a very unpleasant feeling for the boys, and what kind of basement was it, where were you transferred, we were transferred to the basement of this building noshs 16 We were already there Well, as they say, more free than us, well, they untied their hands we somehow managed to come to our senses, but I immediately realized it was such a stressful situation because we didn't understand what would happen next, that is, are we in the basement? We can't get out around the night inside this yard where we were sitting. as she drives in, there is such a feature of this house that it is in the shape of the letter C and seems to be covered high and they hid there, they simply hid behind the people, that is, they understood that our armed forces would not hit civilian houses and they simply hid there and sat like mice until the morning and we heard in the morning that some of the equipment had left. And when we were going in, I saw that right next to this entrance to the basement there was an arch that leads to the other side of the house, and we decided to try to get out anyway and, well, not to wait for them to come for us, but to get out and run away On March 25, 2022, according to the decree of the President of Ukraine number 164, the city of Bucha was awarded the honorary distinction of the city of the hero of Ukraine . you know, after signing these decrees, I felt that in fact it would be worthwhile to celebrate the award and confer the title of hero of a million millions of our people to you, to all Ukrainian men and women who are doing everything they can for our Victory for Peace where they are, where you are, the armed forces of Ukraine have restored control over the city , the Minister of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Dmytro Kuleba, called on the International Criminal Court and international organizations to come to Buchi and other cities and towns of Kyiv Region to collect evidence of war crimes and crimes against humanity committed by the Russians. in Buch and bringing the perpetrators to justice analysis of satellite images The New York Times refutes Russia's article that the killing of civilians in Buch occurred after the Russian soldiers left the city journalists investigators Bilingket debunked Russia's attempts to twist the tragic events of the training in Kyiv Oblast according to data published on April 7, 1990 % of the victims among the civilians of the city died as a result of shootings by the Russians, when they were returning, they saw how the occupiers were tying Serhiy on the ground, a boy who helped and hid the dead during the entire occupation, that is, he was driving, he and two of his friends were driving and trying to collect the bodies of the dead And they, my friends, saw just how the occupiers were tying him up, they tied him up, as we later found out, he was there for almost a day spent tied up just lying on the floor in the city council. The mass grave arose precisely because the occupiers did not allow people to be buried in the cemetery at all, they simply did not allow ritual services there, and of course people who were killed on the streets were brought to where it happened. Maybe at the beginning of the invasion, people were brought to the hospital in the morgue, and of course people had to be buried in some way, and it was decided to make such a mass grave near the church where the first ones could be buried, if I am not mistaken. There were 67 of them . in March, the church of St. Apostle Andrew the First-Called in the city of Bucha was buried, here on the territory there is one of the mass graves where a dozen local residents were buried during the Russian occupation, now experts have begun exhuming the bodies of the dead, experts are tasked with identifying the bodies and finding out the real reasons for the deaths of Bucha residents, but it is already known that the majority of people died as a result of bullet wounds, mainly bullets. It was a shot in the head and a few in the leg. Well, there were also shrapnel wounds where people simply bled and could not get out. The nature of the wounds shows that the residents of Kyiv region were not random victims of the people's war they killed specifically and en masse, there are several places in Buch, several locations where up to a dozen people were found tortured with traces of torture tied to their backs with their hands shot in the back of the head, the abbot of the Church of the Holy Apostle Andrew the First-Called, Reverend Andriy Galavin, remained in the city all the time and saw how the first burials were done by local residents and they repeatedly asked the occupiers to allow them to bury the killed local residents, some of them were in the morgue of the local hospital where the electricity did not work and, accordingly, there were no necessary conditions for storing the bodies of the dead, the first mass burial on the territory of the church took place on March 10 in general, according to the superior church. About 100 people were buried here. Later, during the entire period of occupation, just three volunteers tried to collect and bury the bodies, because we understood that the bodies must be buried in order to preserve the identification of these bodies and the crime itself, because most of the people were still I repeat the injuries from bullet wounds. In other words, it was obvious that people were just being killed, even today. By the way, while continuing this identification work, I received information about the deceased. It is possible that by the way, who knows more information about him? They helped us a lot. His name is Dmitry . Energetiki Street 11, as later, but unfortunately, to this day, we do not know any relatives, we do not know whether he is buried or not at all, because there is no missing information in the registers that the death was registered and, most likely, he may be just among those unidentified whose we still have about 64. On July 2, 2023, the obuchis opened installations with the names of local residents who died as a result of shelling from torture or were executed by the Russian military . engraved names of the dead, the memorial currently contains 501 names of civilians whose names were identified on some tablets without inscriptions, according to the data of Prosecutor General Andriy Kostin in the Buchansk district, during the 33 days of occupation, the Russian military committed more than 9,000 war crimes and killed more than 1,400 civilians, including 37 children. Well 64 bodies buried in the cemetery in the sector are unidentified, remain unknown people, and how did you even find out during the burial period what kind of people they were, how did you record them when you buried people in mass graves, the guys tried to record it, write it down in notebooks, but unfortunately, all the notebooks were repeatedly all the records they made were taken from them by the occupiers . That is , when they were moving around the city, in addition to taking away bodies, the boys also tried to deliver medicine there where it was impossible . collect all the notebooks they had, they took them all away and therefore understand there, I know people were brought in on wheelbarrows they hid so that the bodies were not on the streets, but it was only in the center of the city, streets such as Vokzalna and Yablonska Vodoprovna where it was very difficult to get there, of course, such bodies remained right on the street and we would have seen it already after the deoccupation These are just the first shots when they were filmed when they arrived, yes, Yablynska Street, where close to 100 people died, to date, we counted about 80 people only on one street , that's why when the bodies were collected after the de-occupation, of course there was some information, but during the occupation, all the records that were there were Well, they were almost all destroyed by the occupiers, that is, they generally forbade the last time. If I'm not mistaken, it was somewhere in the 20s of March, the guys went to pick up a body near the passage and at the entrance to the passage, their car was shot. They just jumped out together, they jumped out remained alive and unharmed, but the car no longer drove and after that they could not even drive a car anymore the day when they said they had released Bucha Irpin Do you remember that day and when and from whom did you learn about it learned from the boys yes learned from the boys the guys said that the occupiers had all fled and it felt easier that they had done it. What kind of mind did they hold this position, then it seems that there was no communication, what was possible there for the natives, there was no water, Svetlani, there was nothing, in your opinion, how little could it be ? the future fate of Russia is only destruction, not disintegration. No, destruction will not work, finally, such people cannot be left alive, they will lose the war now, they will calm down, then they will start again. What do you think the future fate of Russia can be? I think that this country will very soon. Well, it is not that it will cease to exist. But in the form in which it is now, it will cease to exist, because it cannot simply be a country in the 20th century with such acts as it does, any totalitarianism. Which Well, in general, I consider it a fascist state, because all the signs are of fascism as such a practice, so if the tactics to take such a doctrine of fascism is not the one that existed in Germany in the 40s. And in general, if you look at it this way, all the signs of fascism exist in Russia today, it can be considered a fascist state, therefore such a state cannot exist in the form it is now , an honorary award, a city, a hero Ukraine is presented to the community of the city of Bucha. I remember your shortness of breath at night, your worried eyes in them, fear for children and explosions, seeing phone calls [music] still in the depths of the soul [music] the rains are pouring down And full of fury, the rains will not be forgotten [applause] [music] the rains are pouring down and the flowers are raging the rains are pouring down those days will not be forgotten those days spent on [music] days Y