English is so weird. I mean, it really is. Not just in comparison with but in comparison with every Allow me to explain. Here are 10 ways in which English is weird. Way number 1: Weird noises. To speak English is to make more different distinct sounds in English - things like sh and nn and luh. 44 give or take, depending on your dialect. But researchers reckon that the average number of sounds across the world's language Meaning English has a good 50% A good chunk of that can be explained away There are loads of them. Again, the precise For example, if I say "hot" I'm using a vowel sound - that "oh" - that a lot Unless they're trying to put on a British accent. But that aside, English speakers are whereas other languages - to our best knowledge Latin had fewer than English, that's why the Roman alphabet has left us with an utterly Hence we have to use them in combination. But which are the weirdest sounds in English? Well one of them is that one the "th" in "that" or in "the" or "this" or "breathe". And the other is the similar - but different I assure you these are the three. The difference is that with "the" But with the "th" in three, you're not. "The" "Three" Anyway those "th" sounds only occur in making English pretty darn There's another weird thing and it's that "ng" we just heard It's not particularly bizarre to have But what's bizarre about English's use of it is that we allow it at the end of you can have it in the middle too - but you cannot have it at the start. And that is weird. Mandarin Chinese does it... but Onto weird thing number 2: Odd questions. "Have you noticed..." the way we swith words For example: "Have you noticed?" is a question, To turn a statement into a question The cat is hungry: statement. Is the cat hungry?: question. A question to which the answer is always "yes". And this, my friend, is weird. Now, you're perhaps thinking "no, it isn't, Rob" because French does it and German does That is true, but we just need to broaden our horizons a little bit here because outside Researchers using data from the a massive database of information about many, found that only 1.4% of those languages did this word switching thing to And almost all of those languages were in Europe. We've picked up the habit from each nother. English is also weird for what because according to that database, the majority of languages use a specific - it's called a question participle. For example, Japanese turns by adding ka to the sentence like And that's something we don't do, eh? ...oh, hold on. The second most common way to formulate a question is to just say the statement But again, this is something English speakers also or "You haven't clicked subscribe yet??" Please do. Perhaps another weird thing about English is Anyway, onto Weird thing about We use the word "do" in a lot of weird ways. English has something called the and it's the "do" that appears in In negative statements like "I I've tried to but I just don't. And also for emphasis in sentences like I'm not just saying that to fit in." In all of these constructions the "do" that There's no reason for the verb to be It isn't carrying any meaning at all. But to give a negative statement in Other languages do not do this. They're more likely to go for "Like They don't draft in this dummy do. This meaningless do makes English very weird. No other Germanic languages do it. In fact it's thought that of all only English and the Celtic So do you see how special it is? Y Weird thing about English number 4. Phrasal verbs! Ah yes, phrasal verbs - a term that strikes terror I like to think of them as our revenge More on that later. Phrasal verbs are things like It's where to describe an action an extra word - a preposition And English is just full of them. That's fine if you've been but if you're learning it as, It's easy enough to know what "to to remember that to "look up" Or to "look out" is to watch your back. Or to "look down on" is to patronise? And not always. You could also just be And sometimes the components of the phrasal verb How are you supposed to guess what "give up" means when there's no obvious So what do other languages do? Well German and Dutch are they're just working the Their words for "to give up" But you won't "come across" That's why we thankfully often have a French We can say "terminate" instead of "end Or lie all the way down if you like. Anyway, English's overreliance It's weird. Now, one of the ways you can weirdness of English is by And if you want to embark on your allow me to recommend to you Babbel, Babbel is one of the top language learning help you learn a language [Babbel app] "God morgon Maria." I've been using it to learn a I can't speak any of the Scandinavian languages, but they've had such a big influence Thanks viking invaders. Plus Sweden is a wonderful place to visit. With Babbel you can set yourself a goal and live teaching sessions, podcasts, lessons you can do whenever and wherever you want. [Babbel app] "Jag mar bra, tack." [Rob] Ya ma bra tack [Babbel app] "Ar du Robert?" [Rob] That word is actually where The Vikings brought it over. I've found I can make fast progress with Babbel because you're very quickly learning it teaches real-world conversations. So click the link in the description or scan to Babbel's amazing discount on their Tack sa mycket! Thank you very much. Okay, our next weird thing about In Spanish a book is masculine. But the table it sits on is feminine. Here in Germany the locals Doesn't look it. But my finger is masculine. And my face is neuter. And you need to know this to speak Spanish you won't know which of their Or which version of the This is grammatical gender and Which is weird. Because almost every other Indo-European language does - so every Romance, every As does Sanskrit and Ancient Greek did. They all apportion a gender - either one But English does not. We have gendered Now, if I was making this video I'd have to leave this section out. I'd because Old English did have apportion It had three, just like modern German And also three version of "the" to and none of which by the way was "the". It was a mess, to be honest. Mann And wife was neuter. And the fact it was such a nightmare longer have this grammatical gender system. We don't know for certain why it went away, but it seems to have happened around The Danish invaders, when married themselves off with the local women and the simpler gender system seems to have had an influence on Another probable factor in grammatical gender's the different word endings that you need to make For example Middle English speakers vowel at the end of a word just sound like an "uh" which was a problem when you to differentiate between a word ending So this might also have made the And good riddance! I cannot think be better off with grammatical If you can, stick it in the comments. But to my mind, having no but also weird. Afrikaans, Armenian, Persian and a handful of Okay, weird thing about English Pronouns got an honourable but let's take a closer look they're weirder than you might think. First of all, the way we use them is, in comparison with the rest of We are peculiarly reliant on them. In fact, we can't do without them. If I just write "like chocolate" you I mean "I like chocolate", "you like chocolat", "they like chocolate", "we like chocolate"? You don't know, because I didn't In sentences like this, the pronoun is Believe it or not, it's thought this are only found in around a This might surprise you because the other ones that have them But also on our doorstep are languages that don't. In Spanish or Italian, the There's enough information in the to tell the listener or reader But because English doesn't have every pronoun - you say "swim" whether we need the pronouns. And given there's only around a one having these obligatory pronouns, that makes it... weird. Oh, and also: the fact we only We don't have a formal and informal Y'all doesn't count, it's a contraction. And We used to have all of those versions of Yeah, it's a bit odd. Okay, weird thingy number 7: silly spelling. Why did I wait all the way to English spelling is a monstrosity. Different letters make different sounds in and letters have to be used in combinations English spelling is particularly - weirdly - bad. I don't know of another language form that represents the sounds of that language and failed so spectacularly. I touched on one of the reasons why already: we are using an alphabet that was And English has many more sounds than the Latin I also recently did a video about English's Great English words to change significantly just as meaning the spellings were soon, for English spelling has also suffered from adding in silent letters to try to better And a descending laziness has meant we've Plus there's also the fact words that were designed for different languages, meaning they don't quite match Anyway, all of this adds up to Another thing that makes English weird. And here comes another! At Okay, let's talk tenses. And here I can So far as linguists have researched it, Because English is the only language tense only requires you to alter the third Just let me explain: So take the verb "smell". It stays the same in the present tense for I, you, and ONLY for he and she and it. And so far as we know. English also has some other Staying in the present: our so-called You know, the way we use the verb "to be" plus For example, "I am reading a book" means This would be considered in many Why not just say "I read book"? Why I personally think we're better off with it. "I But I won't necessarily Have you ever noticed English To talk about the future we have to find "I am going to do it." "I am doing it tomorrow." Even when we say "I will do something" we're invoking the present form of Not having a future tense languages manage without having any tenses at all, they just say when something is going to happen - but having so many different ways to get well, a bit weird. It's time for number nine. Our next Okay, I've tried to be a little clever there, because what this section is about is These are known as articles. "The" You use it when you want to be specific If you want to just talk about any old which in English is "a", or "an" if Now English articles could I give you... German. But the fact that English and these indefinite articles is surprisingly odd. It's not at all common to have an indefinite And even among those, it's by no means a given. Celtic languages like Irish and Welsh Nor do Slavic languages. But the question is... Do we need them? If you have a definite article do you need to have another Can't you just have no article at all? And in fact, do you even need Would you genuinely be confused said something to you along the lines of - I dunno - "I want cup of tea" The fact they've missed off "the" or You can usually tell from context whether they So yeah, the fact English has definite "Do we need indefinite article?" Maybe not. Okay, we're there. Weird And for this one, I want your help. I think our tenth weird thing about English should be about what the language doesn't Because there are concepts that don't exist For example, English doesn't have a gender To talk about them generally we'd That seems to me like a niche that needs filling. Maybe we could use "auncles"... "auncles" "ancles"? I don't know. Come up with a better one. We also don't have separate words for our mother's parents and our father's We don't have a word for the day after tomorrow or And we don't have a word to negate a negative If you say to me: "Rob, you didn't take the bins out again" I can't challenge that outrageous claim with do I mean "no, I did" or "no, I didn't". Ditto with "yes". Whereas in German the word "doch" and for just this situation. To Why don't we have something like that? So help me out here, what other weird What don't we have words for Let me know in the comments. If you've enjoyed this romp through the wonderful 1: Subscribe to this channel and 2. Watch this video next and I do I'm going to go.