Translator: Angelina Babinova The day I got laid off from my job at Martha Stewart, I was relieved. (Laughter) I loved the job, I really did. But the relationship was over and I didn't know how to end it and then it broke up with me. Don't you love it when that happens? At the time I've been also for the Martha Stewart brand on Sirius XM. And then not long after On the day of my last show I got onto the elevator at the 36th floor and as it started to drop, I started to cry. Every floor took me further a magazine editor, a radio host, the person with the cool job You know. And honestly I had no idea And quite frankly So, I did what anyone would do I was making some phone calls: "Hey, what are you up to? Did I mention I'm available?" I needed to get paid I mean I live in New York City. If you're not paid to do something, you're not going to be there very long. But this idea that I had to know I'm supposed to pursue this passion. It's just bugged me. It always had. And that's because at the heart of everything we believe about success and life in general. And it's that you have one and your job is to find it and to pursue it And if you do that everything will fall into place and if you don't you failed. The pressure starts really young and it goes your whole life, but it's perhaps most pronounced After this, "Wow, the world's at your feet! And it's so intimidating, it's like picking a major for life. You know, I had a hard enough time and I changed that once, if not twice. I mean it was like just intimidating, And this compelling I mean this really, you know, forceful cultural imperative it's stressful to me, but it's not just me, it's everyone I talk to agrees with me. The woman who sold me this dress. I told her what I needed the dress for, and she said, "Oh my gosh, I really need to hear this talk, My friends and I we don't know we don't know what we supposed to do." I'm leery of passion for a few reasons. But one of them is it's a feeling. And feelings change. They do. You can be passionate about and then not passionate the next. We know this to use passion as the yardstick to judge everything by, instead of seeing passion the fire that ignites Anyway, I was such a mess such a mess. I was anxious and depressed I was temping to keep my options open, and I was sitting around at night watching Seinfeld reruns. Actually I still do that, that's not It's fine. But I called my mother every night crying and I was turning away Why? Because I was afraid. I was sure that I would pick and get on the wrong train My mother begged me, she said, You're not going to be stuck, You don't create your life first, You create it by living it, She's right, she's always right. And so I took a full-time job at a management consulting firm, Okay. Zero. Except I knew I had a reason to get up leave the house, people who were waiting and I got a paycheck every two weeks. And that is as good a reason Did I know that I want to be for the rest of my life? Truly! But this idea that should fit into this passion vertical And I'll say it - elitist. You show me someone and I will bet you a million dollars it's not because One of my favourite columns is a piece He wrote a piece in The Wall Street Journal about how he failed his way to success. And one of his jobs was And he was taught specifically: &quot;Do not loan money (Laughter) No, loan it to someone the more boring, the better. (Laughter) Adam says that in his life more than passion fueled success. When I got my first job I was thrilled. But I had to take pretty big pay cut, because at the time I'd been (Laughter) Laugh if you will, clearly you are But wigs paid. So I had to figure out a way A friend of mine invited me I said, &quot;What is a jewelry party?&quot; She said, "It's like Tupperware I said, "Okay, got it, got it." I went and I had the best time. I was there hanging out, the salespersons having a great time and I was like, &quot;That's a job. I could... I could do that.&quot; I mean, really, she seems Now, I had no background in sales, unless you count Girl Scouts, And I had no passion for jewelry. I mean, honestly, my earrings And yet I was like, &quot;I think I can sling drinking daiquiris. Yes, I could do that.&quot; And so I did it, I signed up, And I... Listen to me, I was not Really. And then I got better, I got better, I started making some money, I started getting Not just because of the money, what I realized was They were happy to pay for it. I sold so much jewelry that year (Laughter) It's true. I eventually let my jewelry business go, But I was so glad that I did that. Because it planted an entrepreneurial And that bears fruit to this day. Now as you know an entire around helping people Books, coaching, webinars, whatever. And their hearts in the right place, Okay. But when you ask someone, &quot;What's your passion?&quot; It's triggering. It's like, &quot;Oh my god, I have to One of my friends in her mid-forties what's her life going to be now. And she's like, And she's legitimately She's ready to hire a team of people. It's like, You know why, because she thinks I thought something was wrong with me and everyone was really into like the rock-bands and their actors and they would carve the names And I never carved anything, because I mean I liked Bon Jovi but not enough to deface (Laughter) It's probably why I'm assuming that's why. I was really boring, But that's the fear, isn't it? That when someone asks you &quot;What are you passionate about?&quot; That you're not going to have And that means that you're or that you don't have or scary talent that you hiding. And that your life isn't worth living. And it's not true. Passion is not a job, a sport, or a hobby. It is the full force of your attention and energy that you give to And if you're so busy looking for this you could miss opportunities You could also miss out on a great love. Because that's what happens trying to find the One. We all think we know and the kind of person we could love. But sometimes we're wrong. Blissfully wrong. And sometimes you don't know I mean, I don't. I love not knowing what I'm going or I will be into. And that's okay, it's okay not to know. You know why? Because the most fulfilling the most fulfilling careers are those that still have the power And as for the things you know You want to write a book, you want to change careers. Great! But if you're sitting around waiting you're going to be waiting a long time. So don't wait. Instead, spend your time and attention solving your favourite problems. Look for problems that need solving. Be useful, generous. People will thank you, and hug you and that's where passion is. Where your energy and effort That's when you realize: passion lives, and realizing what you have to contribute. Why do you think when we're asking people they say, &quot;Helping other people.&quot;? So don't wait. Listen to my mother. Just start doing. Because to live a life you don't follow you passion, Thank you. (Applause)