I'm Tiffanie Sio I'm a fishmonger People usually assume... that I'm poorly educated I hope that... people won't judge a book by its cover I own a crochet shop People usually assume that... I'm not a normal guy Everyone has their own views I don't intend... to change other people's views When people see how long my hair is, they'll definitely take a few more glances They'll think that I'm not a normal guy... or that I don't have a proper job We've been doing this... for almost four years now Initially, when I was still doing livestreams, we would head to the fishery port at around 1.30 am I came early today for this I came here to see you I only need these two items Most of the workers at Jurong Fishery Port... are either middle-aged or old men Unless they have other choices, very few young people will join this industry However, this young couple... went against the norm They willingly became fishmongers It's $5 31-year-old Tiffanie Sio... studied Broadcast Media and Goh Chong Hao, studied Business Information Technology This one is so small! This is too soft This won't do My husband and I knew each other We both enjoy fishing, so we joined this industry When I was younger, I probably wouldn't have thought of I was a night owl when I was younger I loved going to parties I'd usually party all night But who would've thought that... I'd end up having to wake up These days, starting work has become Is this enough? Yes! Is it not enough? -Yes I've bought four items from you She invited us to their wedding We treat each other as good friends We'll chit-chat every day Very few girls join this industry Selling fish is quite tough The fishy smell is quite strong For a girl to do this, it's quite impressive Sorry? We've gotten the goods We'll leave the fishery port I'll wake up at 11 am every day... and open the shop at 12 pm I'll end work at around 2 am to 3 am There are many things to do every day My hair is so long because I didn't cut it I don't see a need to cut it... because humans have Whether it is in the East or the West, even during the ancient times, everyone had long hair Therefore, having long hair I don't find a need I didn't set those standards Why do I have to adhere to them? Terrix Lin and his girlfriend, Angie Ng, opened this crochet shop in 2016 Angie used to sell They were well received by her customers, and they requested for her She opened a shop at Clarke Quay, and subsequently, Terrix When most people find out that they think that I'm crazy They think that They think that it's not an industry How can I support my family How can I feed myself? People think that They wonder how long we plan to do this... and if we can retire comfortably However, they don't realise that or giving piano lessons You'll earn money from teaching people... and accumulate enough savings after some time How many do you think... we should make for sale? I think we can make 15 of them Do you think that that's enough? What do you think? Thirty Thirty? We'll have to carry them back... if we can't sell them There's still another fair Oh! We can sell the rest another time We've been running this shop for eight years, and we've taught It's a sustainable business One can be successful in any industry Terrix has been helping out... at his parents' fruit stall since young These days, he still goes to the stall... whenever he has time I was very interested in drawing and art My parents would sign me up such as drawing and clay crafting classes After I completed these classes, I didn't continue... because my mother I wasn't opinionated, It's the Buddha Tooth Relic Temple That's right Of course, I know how to read this After sitting for he wanted to go to an art academy, but his parents didn't support his decision Hello. Good morning The fruits have been delivered I signed up to study graphic design... at an art academy But my mother listened to and felt there was and I wouldn't be able to earn much money The electronics industry has better prospects How much can you earn every month doing art? There's no regular income You'll be better paid... in the electronics industry The three years were an agony I knew that I couldn't When Terrix completed his National Service, he signed up and he fell in love with photography All right! Rotate the bunny this way a little bit We learned photography at the academy When I was exposed to photography, I was fascinated... because I can take and transfer it onto the computer screen After obtaining his diploma, Terrix used the savings that and some money to buy a DSLR camera... and go on a solo trip to Japan I wasn't very confident... nor had my own opinions when I was young So, this was a journey of self-discovery When I returned from Japan, I posted the photos on social media, and everyone liked them That gave me some confidence I stumbled upon a competition one day, and I sent in some photos of mine I didn't expect that I'd win the first prize Everyone was very surprised I was also very surprised The award changed his parents' mind They decided to support his endeavour His girlfriend, Angie, Upon graduation, they ventured into the creative industry Angie, who loves crocheting, would sell her handicrafts online When her business boomed, Terrix joined in to help promote her business One, two, three Fire! I need the photos to do promotion So, if they're of poor quality, it's very difficult... to compete with others We're recording I'm a professional photographer My girlfriend, Angie, is a graphic designer We're very experienced in this line of work I think that we make perfect partners... when we work together I never really gave up on photography It's just that... I can now pick the customers I like... and take on work that I like Thank you, Madam! -Very good Bye-bye! When Tiffanie was 28 years old, she changed the trajectory of her life She became a fishmonger at the market Previously, she worked in insurance Her monthly salary was determined It made her feel very stressed out When I got home every day, my mind couldn't rest at all I'd keep thinking... I had to do this and that the next day If I didn't hit my targets, I'd feel very fed up It's $14 for one kilogram Do you want it? Okay. Best! When she left her job Chong Hao, who was her boyfriend then, was looking for a job as well Unfortunately, the COVID-19 pandemic hit Many of my interviews were cancelled At the time, my husband and I... weren't sure of what we wanted to do &lt;i&gt;Come on &lt;i&gt;Bid higher &lt;i&gt;I have three Mao Shan Wang durians... &lt;i&gt;and a Red Prawn durian &lt;i&gt;It's 4.3 kilograms &lt;i&gt;It's not a joke By chance, Tiffanie's friend was looking and thought of her I'm the only friend they have... who doesn't feel shy in front of the camera So, I agreed to it I was looking for a job anyway My husband was good at cutting durians So, we both decided to help my friend I couldn't find any work anyway, so I would just continue in this line of work &lt;i&gt;It's a spicy radish salad&lt;/i&gt; In 2020, Tiffanie and Chong Hao and were ready to flex their muscles However, they couldn't decide on what to sell We realised that durians are seasonal We couldn't just rely on selling durians It would be a dead end My husband and I loved fishing, so we'd go fishing whenever we had the time Every time, we'd slice and cook the fish when we got home The idea just came to us - &quot;Why don't we sell fish then?&quot; Fish is available all year round People buy fish for Chinese New Year People buy fish for Hari Raya People buy fish for Christmas too We decided that... this business would be viable I'm waiting for you to buy from us We sold this though Someone ordered it Selling fish on a livestream... was pretty good business However, they were frustrated with... not having a proper place to process the fish They had to find a stall Last time, when we sold the fish, I had to process them in the kitchen at home I was scolded by my mother-in-law After getting scolded, I went back to my own home... and was scolded by my mother instead I was at my wits' end We had to find... a stall to sell the fish &lt;i&gt;It's a black pomfret, guys They were happy But Tiffanie's friends were worried that... she had to endure physical exhaustion... and cope with criticisms online When I first started livestreaming, I sold durians... and then fish I would wear a singlet and a pair of shorts When I was online, I encountered some weird people... who would criticise my outfits... or say that I wasn't well-educated I think that these people... shouldn't judge a book by its cover In September last year, Tiffanie gave birth to her first child... and became a mother Over the past few years, Tiffanie's parents saw her get married, make a career change... and walk her own path They witnessed Tiffanie's decisions... with trepidation One day, she told me that I was very puzzled I asked her why she made that decision I never really asked her to do any housework I was worried that it would be hard for her When she first joined this industry, I was against it, to be honest Your father is very vain He likes to take photos now... to show off his grandchild to others The world has changed and we have no choice Things are better now The world has changed indeed I'm selling fish now It's normal You're rubbing it in However, after one year, I feel that... the most important thing and can forge their own path... and that they have a common goal Oh, my heart ached How I ached for her But since this is the path she has chosen, I'll encourage her I'll help them in whatever way I can If they work together, nothing is too difficult They can overcome anything Stop smiling Stop smiling and drink your milk Tiffanie didn't slow down at all Shortly after her daughter she returned to the market and started to work It's sea bream You can deep fry this It'll be very good Okay Compared to the COVID-19 pandemic period, the online shopping frenzy has died down The fish stall has fewer online customers too There are only eight kilograms left Get yours before they are sold out Don't regret it and don't miss it! After the measures were relaxed, everyone started heading out Fewer people are cooking at home now Those who used to cook stopped doing so I have a few customers... who used to have helpers Those helpers have all returned home It's the same They don't cook any more So, our business has dropped We can only tell ourselves that We'll just do our best We'll give our best... to every order and customer we get After becoming a mother, Tiffanie has been doing fewer livestreams She spends more time receiving orders She hopes to secure her clientele If there are any tonight, reserve 20 of them for me I want the good ones if not I'll... After running the business Tiffanie has experienced and the joy of treating others with sincerity I want more... -Otah! I want more otah The otah from yesterday was delicious Some of them made bird's nest soup for me They also bought essence of chicken for me I'm very grateful and moved by their gestures I feel that... this is the purpose of what I do After the first round, it's only in the first round that... you have to be extra careful... because the cast-on stitch... is a little bit loose Since there has been one round, everything should be good more or less I feel that crocheting is very therapeutic It allows me to... create things that I want Whatever my mind thinks of, I can create it It's very interesting This is a very challenging job... because you have to constantly... come up with new ideas I feel that it's very fun and challenging It makes me very happy Okay, never mind I bet the hole is closed, but let me try Have you tied the knots? You haven't, right? Okay. Let me check To run a crochet shop, new business opportunities besides relying on returning customers Terrix and Angie not only conduct classes but they've developed a new product line too During the COVID-19 pandemic, it was very difficult to import any yarn I then experimented with... dyeing some yarn... with unique colours The yarn that we dye ourselves because the yarn that I dye is very special You can't find it anywhere else Guys, we're about to bring in... new yarn and colours Which is your top favourite? Everybody has to choose one We need all of them Running a crochet shop... is the same as other businesses You have to keep innovating You have to give to sustain the business Tiffanie and Chong Hao... participated in a charity event... during the holidays We're going to do sorting next These are all donations We need to check certain things We'll have to first check the expiry date In 2020, the couple participated in a charity event... for the neighbourhood at Pek Kio Market Along with other fish sellers, they collected to 100 low-income households This act of charity... moved the couple The residents told us that... they hadn't had the chance to eat seafood... for three to four years... because they didn't have the means to buy it We donated the fish close to Chinese New Year So, they could invite... their children and grandchildren... to have a meal together... because they had something to cook I was moved when I heard that This motivates me to continue There are many paths in life... that are laid out before us It takes exploration and courage... to find the best path for yourself A seemingly simple life... is made up of difficult sacrifices A seemingly ordinary wish... requires a huge amount of willpower To me, I want people to see my job... as a regular job The only difference is... I wake up earlier than you do... and end work earlier I'm working hard now for my daughter I think that many people I don't need them to change their views They can have their own views Everyone has their own freedom Subtitles: CaptionCube