University was built is the traditional Anishinaabe peoples, many of whom This territory is covered by the Upper protected by the Dish with One Spoon wampum to First Nations, Metis and Inuit peoples. It's the Centre for Scholarship in the Public Interest, welcome Noam Chomsky here this evening. Dr. &quot;Rethinking the Civic Imagination and Manufactured by an interview with Dr. Ian McKay, the L. R. from Dr. Chomsky's recent book, &quot;The Precipice: for Social Change.&quot; Throughout his entire academic and stature as a public intellectual to in societies that have failed to live up to the Professor Chomsky has rightly argued cultural workers, and others have a responsibility threat of nuclear war, ecological devastation, and aware that oppression feeds on mass apathy and work and public interventions have become a model inequality, needless wars in class, and racial individuals in social movements to unleash the to keep alive the spirit, promises and ideals of border crosser, he draws upon a wide variety of the public imagination while reminding us for a commitment to a free, just, and equal is no democracy without informed citizens and no He has made clear that we live in dangerous individuals, institutions, and social movements regimes of tyranny can be resisted, that that acting on those beliefs through collective Professor Chomsky's work is infused with a with the need for civic courage and collective because the world is more dangerous than ever. I captures the spirit of Noam's work when he wrote, get to it, the more real it is, which is part of It is my great honour to introduce Professor of the world's most important scholars and has written numerous books including one of Manufacturing Discontent and Resistance&quot;, which at the University of Arizona. It is my great Thank you very much, Henry. Well in many very searching questions have been inadequately of course, as a way of setting Well perhaps I can start with something that Fermi paradox posed by the great physicist where are they? His discipline of astrophysics accessible to us with conditions similar enough life, over time intelligent life, maybe even super diligent search we cannot find the slightest hint offered in a morbid gist is that they're out there get away from that crazy place as quickly as Another answer in the same vein but more serious but proved to be a lethal notation and of only one case: humans on Earth. We are a new That's a blink of an eye in evolutionary time and There have been reasons for such when we learned that human intelligence had quite yet but it was clear that the day was not And it did. It came a few years later in 1953 exploded thermonuclear weapons. In acknowledgment the hands of the famous doomsday clock which seems the hands were advanced to two minutes Well, the hands have oscillated since. They until halfway through the Trump the analysts abandoned minutes altogether, shifted Let's take a closer look at what leads to these of severe crises, something that has never period of human history. To each of these crises, we are rejecting the solutions and racing to the To be more precise, it is not we who are racing to called the &quot;masters of mankind&quot;. In his day, that In our day, it's multinational corporations, private power, and the governments that On the matter of service to the masters, cases are regularly on the front pages. Right now debating a major program which among other things to take serious steps to arrest catastrophic largely in the hands of the Chairman of the who happens to be the champion of the Congress He's now demanding sole jurisdiction in the Senate performance programs. That's Joe Manchin and Republicans half are a hundred percent so the fate of the legislation rests on unity fuel funding, the Democrat, can ensure that and he's clear about it. His official no cut back on fossil fuel use. That's public relations department. If the denialist we'll be back to racing to the abyss as disastrous Trump years. Well it may seem like And the history is revealing. The Republicans In 2008 when John McCain was running, insufficient but mild, global warming legislation. That their shift to total commitment to cataclysm Specifically, juggernaut by the huge Koch brothers Republicans were veering towards recognizing survival of organized human life on Earth and The juggernaut was successful. Cut the heresy turned and haven't changed. Now that's not an mainstream academic political science which between electability and campaign funding. funding. And similar scholarship has independently namely a large majority of voters are correlation between their views and the votes of listening to different voices as they must if they Blocking of legislation that would harm the to the United States. It's worldwide. In fact, on the front pages. As we meet, governments of production. They've just been advised in the catastrophe is looming unless we begin immediately effectively phasing it out by mid-century. about the discovery of new fields to exploit press debates whether the US fracking industry You can readily add examples from where you're They all know that they are racing to catastrophe. well. Furthermore, at least if they're minimally solutions to the climate crisis which will But profit for the rich and political for the masters and their servants. What about the Let's take Joe Manchin's state, West Virginia, bastion of working-class militancy. The coal miners in West Virginia and elsewhere, they program, that would shift production towards all feasible, worked out in detail. They're a bitter enemy and the relentless class The class war, one-sided class war, has been 40 years of the neoliberal assault on the back to the 1930s, happens to be my childhood. serious crises. There were several ways In the United States, a rising militant turned to social democracy, the New Deal. Later, That led to what in Europe is called the economists call the golden age of capitalism in egalitarian growth rate, lowest quintile as but economically, socially has enormous success. But until the 1970s, they were unable to reverse in the United States, the business the president of the United Auto Carter-initiated management labor board. He I'm quoting him, &quot;for having chosen to a war against working people, the the very young, and the very old, and even And having broken and discarded previously existing during a period of growth and Reagan and Packard, early 80s, the one-sided class smash unions using illegal methods like strike inviting them to follow suit. Very effective over understood or at least their planners understood of the main means of defence against what what was to come was never in doubt. And go principle which he stated is the government is have to be taken out of the hands of government. They go to concentrations of private power. That's it's partially responsive to the general totally unaccountable so it's a much This was amplified by the economic guru of came out with his principles article, giving to the public, only to maximizing profit, and of incorporate is a gift granted by the public with you can keep it a partnership. But having accepted So, put that together. Decisions partially responsive to the population, which have no accountability and are responsible salaries of CEOs and management. Doesn't take and in fact after 40 years even the mainstream So the super respectable RAND recently did a study of what they politely call and the working class, lower 90 percent of the very top. When you look closely, it's mostly to Their estimate is about 50 trillion dollars in underestimate. They did not take into account developed when Reagan and Thatcher opened the So you're looking at the newspapers today, you papers showing how the ultra rich use various stash away huge amounts of money in It's only a small part of it. The world's has its offices in Ireland, very low Now all of this was illegal prior to Reagan and it was conscientious in enforcing the laws. There changes in rules of corporate governance that sets their salaries, and guess what salaries have skyrocketed, especially in the salaries up with it. So you get if you added up the public, putting most of it in the hands of the percent of the US population has increased Not quite at that extreme elsewhere but something policies that were announced in 1980. Meanwhile Up until the late 70s, the minimum wage and with the neoliberal assault. Productivity Real wages in the United States, some supervisory Meanwhile, services have been cut back under majority of the population pretty can't pay for COVID vaccinations, too much precarious existence. Maybe you'll be called to for double time. Okay. That's the result of 40 this has to do with markets. Not quite. What a bailout economy. One of the things that was deregulation of the greatly expanding financial What happens after a crash? The public politely it. The government has a tacit insurance That means that the big guys, the big financial cheap credit. They can take out risky loans no problem. That's the bailout economy. So class and the middle class, but it's powerful That's a one-sided class war. Working people in The masters have to be protected by a powerful way with what are ludicrously called free trade a manner that has absolutely no precedent. It's world can't get vaccines, protected by the rich to preserve the profits of the masters with a global and local system except for the poor, thrown on the market. Go across the channel, Her mantra as you remember was: there is unless of course you're among the Chamber of Commerce, Business Roundtable, corporate-funded which imposes business-friendly manipulated and bought off, trade associations, nothing for the rest. One-sided class profound. That's quite apart from the vast highway anger, resentment, conspiracy theories about anti-vaxx movements, the United States literally lot more. It's also created fertile terrain for holding up a banner with one hand while the other hand stabs you in the back. of the Trump administration: the tax scam of 2017. corporations, imposing of course a higher of quiet. You don't talk about that in public. It's an obvious consequence of policies I or all the way some analysts argue. Well there alarm about the possible collapse of American Among them are leading commentators of the world's Times, to warn that the United States is being a radical party with a reactionary agenda which with neo-fascist origins. Should say that all lives have been framed by the transition from the to tpday where it's in the lead and moving towards where I think we are now. It's not graven in most crucial issue, it's mainly the young. It's Greta Thundberg stands up at an assembly of the She was right. The words should be seared into our much time to hear these words. Well, which is actually one aspect of a much broader industrialized agriculture, destroying the the COVID crisis, incidentally. But a comparable one, the one that was initiated 75 very seriously. One of the reasons why the There have been slow steps for 60 that would limit the threat of nuclear war. It radical party with a reactionary agenda, the from invading countries to destroy the ABM of the rest, though Biden was able to rescue the accepting finally Russian offers to extend in global military power, swamps all potential in the mad race to develop even more yearning for global suicide to space. It's not the way it's perceived in high places. to the US is China. That deserves some thought. by the distinguished international diplomat Paul right within the reach of the dragon's claws. is the fact that somehow the rise of 20% of approaching a modern state is illegitimate. it is an affront to the United States. It's not something China has never articulated represents a challenge to United The major point of contention right now is or that's the way it's described. It's a leading Australian strategic analyst Clinton concerns military and intelligence operations in 200 miles offshore for every country. The United are permissible in these exclusive zones. India agrees with China's interpretation. operations in its exclusive zone. These exclusive The United States is the only maritime say that it will not violate it. The law bans the The controversy has nothing to do with freedom of It has to do with whether military intelligence United States says no. China, India, clear case where diplomacy is in order, not highly in a region of considerable tension with the But it is crucial to establish US preeminence which we are led to believe unlike the US nuclear-armed missiles in the US military 800 military bases the United States has of the China threat is further elaborated by Brian Toohey. It's worth quoting in detail to help &quot;China's nuclear weapons are so inferior that it strike from the United States. Take the example China has four. Each can carry 12 The subs are easy to detect because Office of Naval Intelligence, each is noisier China is expected to acquire another four However, the missiles on those subs won't have they would have to reach suitable However, they're effectively bottled up inside pass through a series of US chokepoints where they submarines. In contrast to China, the United Each can launch 24 Trident missiles, each able to reach anywhere on the globe. That means or other targets, compared to 12 for the Chinese by the bigger and more devastating Columbia the US is now sending Australia advanced hunter so they'll be incorporated in the US naval command an agreement between France and Australia for French industry. Washington did not even take the European Union on its place in the Brian Toohey observes further that does not enhance its security, quite the contrary, sale has no discernible strategic purpose. probably 15 years, by which time china will to deal with this new military threat. The to establish more firmly that the United States escalating the threat of war, possibly terminal and of course eschewing such specified measures as take place against the background that's plain and global dominance from Britain and proceeded to than Britain ever was. China's a rising power crises we face are all international. Pandemics, nor does nuclear war. The US and China will are doomed. It's as simple as that. Cooperation is have solutions that are within reach. The will to save ourselves from cataclysm or whether really may be a lethal mutation, providing Thank you very much, Dr. Chomsky Henry Giroux said in his introduction. It's and to the Wilson Institute. And after I pose audience members as well. And while I'm asking starting now using the chat function on YouTube. book, &quot;The Precipice: Neoliberalism, the Pandemic out by C. J. Polychroniou. In it, you elaborate on with the fate of the human experiment quite First of all, among some theorists critical of developed by Marx which is called the metabolic nature of elements necessary for the there aren't distinct climate but rather one overall multi-dimensional impact of capitalism upon the natural world. Do Oh yeah, I had that question in mind which was the global warming is part of a much broader rift. Destruction of habitats, which of course industrialized meat production, not only warming and even more, something else I didn't not talked about much except in the medical We're coming to a point where going to a hospital mutating which antibiotics can't deal with. it's not really profitable, but they're mounting. is industrialized meat production. You cram cows, place. Diseases are going to spread. Well you're So what you do is pump them full of antibiotics. are used basically for that reason. Of pretty soon you're getting antibiotic resistant in another 20 or 30 years, and other advanced medical procedures but you have matter what you do to the world's population, to to animals, to the environment - have to make it's a very profitable line of inquiry but That's critical. The crises that we face have leading democracies are urging the fossil fuel all know certainly that we have to start but not if you want to improve your electoral companies. That has to be done now. We replaced by something more humane, just concerned for that and that's true of the other crises We're on the verge. I don't have to go They have to be dealt with now. That means working savage capitalism of the past 40 years. It's not of capitalism that Dwight Eisenhower advocated. it's not utopian to say that we could rise to That's not a joke. Take a look at Bernie Sanders' Times quipped that in Germany he could be It's literally true. Universal health care, Mexico, Germany, Finland, everywhere that's considered radical. That's part of the States which has shifted the spectrum, shifted the spectrum far to the right. Well In fact, it's being battled right now in move a little bit towards, back towards the kind limited social democracy being fought and by the so-called moderate Democrats who ones who are awash in corporate funding. They'll do that. So we have to solve the problems within hard to raise understanding, awareness of the and also developing institutions which Worker-managed enterprises, for example, not here, localism and so on, all at the same Thank you. One distinctive theme I really tonight and I think it sets you apart from a lot compassionate treatment of working-class North and right-wing demagogues. You really are be aggrieved and they're sort of being lured into How would you respond to critics who might think and their reactionary politics? Well I don't feel that I'm on some high people. I'm not living their lives. I didn't the stagnation of wages, the decline of okay. I mean problems like I suffer from the not being able to get to a hospital because victims. But that's not like what The last 40 years have been a disaster for them. the working class vote for Brexit in my They want to grasp something. Maybe we can grasp We can feel proud of something. I don't think don't feel like condemning it. If you take a look that's been very carefully studied. left social scientist who's done very detailed Trump popular base is petty bourgeois. Relatively guys who own a construction business, traditional. They feel their country's being theory of the great replacement. The so they can undermine the white population. wild conspiracy theories that's around. Well take You can understand it. Jobs are gone. Stores are boarded up and Still some churches. Not much future for Christian nationalist, traditional, There was a wonderful, that's largely mythical, traditional life where the coloured people none of this craziness of same-sex marriage, are doing to us. All being taken away. So okay these are the people who marched on the capitol. marched there saying I'm going to save my country destroying the country. Do I approve of it? Of we could also understand our role in creating it. okay. It has a devastating effect on the as deplorable. They are, but not without reason. it's not basically working class. One of the DiMaggio, is that the working class was not won That's where the shift is. Many of the He totally betrayed them, totally. So what it in Massachusetts where i lived at the time. wonderful promises. 2010 he'd betrayed the working for the rich, not for the poor, not for the Replaced Ted Kennedy, the liberal lion. Even They'd been betrayed, stabbed in the back. Why party of rich professionals. They don't care I wonder if I could ask a question about This phenomenon known as neoliberalism which we're several good graduate students working on this, these various ways of defining neoliberalism. Some rule, others say it's just a specific tradition, Some see it as a particular version of a as an updated version of ruling class strategies be right then in thinking that you know from essentially inclined to that last thrust which scheme to basically deprive workers and you know class more than the other themes that other all these strands of interpretation together and I'd go along with Doug Fraser when it The business classes are basically Marxists, vulgar Marxists, they don't bring the bitter one-sided class war using many techniques. That's cover. Chicago school doesn't say you which you call free trade agreements. Chicago the big institutions and give them a government That's not Chicago school. And Milton Milton Friedman actually should notice that chance under perfect experimental conditions 9/11 1973, much worse than 9/11 2001, but since we imposed a vicious brutal dictatorship, opened investors loved it. Working class was crushed, came in. Milton Friedman's students, Friedrich perfect conditions, couldn't have any protest, money pouring in from the wealthy all over the They were smart enough to depart from doctrine by Codelco. Highly efficient nationalized copper So they put away the textbook and left that in about five years, they had crashed the economy of the economy than it held under Allende. 1982 But they didn't care. By 1982, they were on Let's take the whole world and put masquerading as libertarianism. So I think that's its practices not its rhetoric and the practices I really like what you said about Brexit wanting to believe in their nation and kind of our nationalism derives from taking gleeful I really deplore those tendencies and Canada and you take a few pokes at Canada in The which is not really a world leader in terms And also the Alberta tar sands and other not about Canada, I was wondering do you think in a future global left and how do we nations and to basically dwell upon you know and watching other nations go through difficult politics and yet it's everywhere in Well I'm sorry, I don't remember the exact words, I think his name might have been John Holmes Canadian way. The Canadian way is to stand up for He put it more eloquently. I've seen even in my own experience. I've one of the most brutal vicious parts Visiting poor villages where they're desperately under the attack of Canadian mining corporations the hills, make profit by killing poor people in scourge of the Earth, Canadian mining companies. attracts the United States. You may recall one of the revelations in the Pentagon Papers Dan Ellsberg didn't release at first, when Johnson he consulted with the allies. So he consulted he didn't think it would be good to use That's the Canadian way, stand up okay, but bomb the [ __ ] out of them you know and basically the US spy in the So there's plenty to say about Canada. By US I really noticed throughout The Precipice explicit references to Antonio Gramsci and as a But I was wondering if you could comment on prince which he wants basically a cohesive party Libertarian leftists have historically been Yet the pandemic to my eye states with the capacity to plan the economy, and prevent future pandemics. So is it time to set Well I don't know exactly what Does it say that if you don't feel like stopping Especially if there's an old woman pushing inhibited. Why should I have the state tell that from libertarians. There happen to be vaccine in schools. Can't send your kid to a school unless libertarian supposed to say I want to send my kid to be free of state control? I haven't heard are there general controls. It's who puts them in which gets together, deliberates, says we want to Well that's libertarian socialism. It's not US which says private power does whatever it feels It's what was called libertarian socialism, basically anarchism and ... It had nothing to do an interesting measure of the extent to which towards tax collection. It's a very striking when tax day comes along, you're furious. They're they're robbing us. I want to find a way out of a democratic society. A society where communities year for ourselves, schools, roads, decent air, for it. Here's an equitable way to pay for it. It's a day of celebration of the fact that we were Now it's interesting to place You get an interesting conclusion of It's worth thinking about. So I don't think the It's we get together, decide we want to protect workers in restaurants. I think they deserve the restaurant should be able to have a vaccine to do with a powerful state imposing anything My last question is, it's but in The Precipice you're asked how one can quote you and it's a wonderful quote, you say the but if there's another way it's been kept a and persistent engagement. Hard work, necessary and can again. So you know I really like the way possible but how you know urgent and hard the work optimism of the will&quot; would be how Gramsci would wing authoritarianism but what I would call kind my students, the sense of many young people. overpowering manifold crises as they inherit combat that sense of almost Well I think several ways. One of them actually by the dedicated work of completely unknown friend Howard Zinn, the unknown people who create, that enter history. We'll never know their names. who travelled through Alabama in freedom buses killed in order to encourage black farmers to take anybody know their names? I personally happen Same with everything else. Feminist movement, succeed. Look back, just take the United States. before the wave of activism civilized it. laws so extreme that the Nazis refused to segregated housing. There was under the New Deal impact of Southern Democrats, had to be racist. unless it was segregated. That had a major An African-American man could maybe get a decent maybe buy a small house. Property is wealth in Government said no sorry they're segregated, There were anti-sodomy laws, of course. Women US still had the laws that were founded, taken which women were property, owned by the father, that the Supreme Court determined that women were Well we can go on and on. It was a very different in the general intellectual world, the 60s are the society. It did. It civilized the society There always are. But overwhelmingly it No tradition coming out of almost nowhere. Picked The climate strike a couple of weeks ago. That's way to support the idea that we should have been achieved: a lot. Young people today don't ancient history. We can remember, okay. They The other major reason, the second major reason feasible workable answers to every crisis that we You have a choice. You can either give up and make the opportunities that exist. Maybe it'll make Thank you. Okay I've got some questions here now from the audience if you Here's one from Eric McPherson. He asks, given organizing by working people can help to bring you mentioned? So I guess what he's asking, globalization that can be contrasted to those Well if you take a look at history, history of that the an active militant labor movement That's why Canada has a national health The labor unions acted differently The New Deal measures which brought a measure later imitated in Europe to an extent. Labor post-war world was the labor movement. Reagan when they initiated an attack on the labor move. But then there's the opposite side of that The United States happens to have It's a business-run society to a remarkable extent in the late 19th-early 20th century. Was crushed Woodrow Wilson's Red Scare smashed it. 1920s started having CIO organizing - this much I can sit down strikes put the fear of god into the got some progress. That can happen it's kind of ancient history, that the labor That can be revived. To some extent, a trade with South Africa under apartheid when the Reagan was the last supporter of the apartheid to serve the ships. Okay internationalism for The neoliberal globalization programs are working people in competition with one another programs of NAFTA, World Trade Organization it. The remnants of the labor movement tried to but you could have the kind of programs that high-wage programs for all participants in all be an alternative to the low growth, low Could be done. There were efforts. They so let's help them become strong enough to everywhere else. There are labor problems in the adjuncts, graduate students, lots of Everywhere we are we can organize, work together, where the common good overrules Henry Giroux asks, in an age in which education far exceeds schooling, how can we talk about How important is culture as a site Well the right wing certainly understands this. Take the United States. The radical party, the in the federal government or the states, reactionary cultural policy. One of their main None of them have a clue what critical race theory even understand it. But it's a slogan that was set to destroy the white race, you know. We've got block them from teaching the history of the of African- Americans and the bitter legacy it's theory. We got to win the culture wars. Same on Christian conservative culture, in fact let's was one of the great contributions of the United the United States. That was pretty democratic. The great public universities including MIT where federally set up to provide There's an ugly side. That meant exterminating in a corner for a moment. You're not supposed the University of Arizona, they do an announcement that we're on the territory is in reservations nearby. It's our responsibility by educational programs, cultural programs the atrocities we've committed. Okay the Republicans and large number of Democrats For people like Milton Friedman, it was one of fact, Friedman cooperated with the segregationist recognized white supremacist movements that they could save segregated schooling by putting charter schools, you know something or other. racist segregationists as part of the effort The Secretary of Education for Trump, Betsy DeVos Foundation. They are devoted to destroying right-wing religious education. It was quite colleges and so on. So education is certainly give it away to the right wing. Now the question I think that should be question The kind of education that The kind of education that says you train for by the Enlightenment. Ridiculing the worst pouring water into a vessel and then We've all had that experience. Taking some course getting good marks, two weeks later That's institutionalized in the United States It's called teaching to test. The worst imaginable and then grade the school on the tests so if reduce the teacher's salary. You a kid comes up after class and says you brought up can I do? The teacher has to say no sorry you have Massachusetts, it's a liberal state. You got to in the back of her mind is my salary so don't pursue what you're interested in, study the course was about. That's teaching to test. thing that's happened strikingly is that literacy I don't know about Canada but in the The kind of novels let's say that used to to seniors in high school because literacy And that's education. Well of course it varies. taxes pay for decent schools, maybe have fairly in the United States is based on property taxes. much, the populations were mixed. Now it matters The rich pay higher property taxes. They get So when we talk about education and culture as a Maybe our last question should be the one from or is transformation of individual behaviour So do we have to start with the system or can Why either or? You can do both. You can Take say the Vietnam anti-war movement with. We tried to start the movement when John sharply escalated the war in the early But a few of us, there were people around us, said to this massive atrocity. We started meeting Maybe you could get to a church where 10 people changes. That's the way everything works. Take the when four black students whose name nobody in North Carolina, Greensboro. Of course, have been the end. Except the next day a couple you had some students coming down from the north, After a while you had mass demonstrations, Martin Nowhere near enough but some and that's the worker participation or control over enterprises, You go back to the women's movement, A group of young kids would get together we don't have to live like this, we don't have to we can take part in things. That was a Take the labor movement. You go back to late 19th early 20th century. slogan of the who work in the mills should own them&quot;. The was considered an intolerable attack on your Well that consciousness can be revived. I don't Change of attitudes, change of what cut it away, change it, along with outcome supportive. You set up a cooperative, gets In order to set up the cooperative, you have to So they're mutually reinforcing. I Thank you and thank you so much for being with with us and it's been just a marvelous evening, read The Precipice and the many other books that unrivaled insights into the world in which a tremendous sense of the principle keep us going, so thank you very much Dr. Thank you very much, this is Henry Giroux. I'm privileged to have you here tonight. I think means to change consciousness is beginning solidified and more amplified. And I want to thank