Ahh .... Assassin's Spaghetti! An excellent and bizarre dish .... A crispy spaghetti infused with tomato... Let's see how a Real Killer Spaghetti is made. For making this Barese specialty, we are following the most common recipe... directly from the Academy of Assassina (a real group) So before anything, it's fundamental we have the right equipment. Because the process of cooking this pasta is the most complicated part. We need an iron pan, the biggest you can find at home. One that can accommodate the uncooked pasta entirely. The one I'm using here is 36 cm in diameter... We talked about iron, but the pan also needs to be seasoned (treated). Otherwise, the spaghetti will stick to the pan as it would for stainless steel. [The Tomato Broth] The first thing to do is to prepare the tomato broth that we use to cook the pasta. Now, I've made the Killer Pasta many times, and I can assure you that you can substitute this broth with concentrated tomato paste with a mix of tomato puree diluted by 50% with water (1:1) And the Killer Spaghetti will be even more intense. And this is our little suggestion also to the Academy (of the recipe). water: 1 liter Here, look at this. Red as blood. This is a liter. I'm going to add it here. fine salt: a handful And now... we boil it. As soon as it is almost boiling, it's ready. In the meantime, we'll do the 'soffritto'. [The 'Soffritto': Garlic, Oil, Pepper] garlic: 3 cloves mince one clove red chili pepper: one One question many make is: &quot;But can I use a non stick pan?&quot; &quot;A Teflon pan?&quot; [ olive oil: 150 ml] Well, if you have to. But an iron pan can't be beat. It will give you the best cook. We'll make the garlic golden...not ever browned... Otherwise the garlic will leave behind a bad taste and smell. Shortly after the garlic is golden, we add the tomato puree which will create a bed for our spaghetti. tomato puree: 150 g Now we spread the sauce out in this way... creating a bed for our spaghetti that will arrive in a minute. spaghetti: 400 g here it is [Frying the Pasta] Here... see? Here they are sticking [to the pan] Look at these. They are already sticking. Now, we turn them And look at this crispiness that is already forming... see it? They are frying... this is the uniqueness of this recipe. This is a real frying of the pasta. In an untreated pan, this would be a nightmare. You shouldn't ever try to do this in a stainless steel pan. Look here... Look at the beauty. The spaghetti is still hard, but that's ok. Look at the lovely browning we already have (this is part of the recipe!!!)... Move them delicately... otherwise you'll break the pasta. [Cooking the Pasta - Like a Risotto] Look at the color, look at the color! Beautiful. See this brown? This brown-red color (deep red) And now the pasta needs to be tortured... killed slowly. It's exactly what we are doing. And that could be why this pasta is called 'Assassin's Pasta'-- Because this is a torture, ladies and gentlemen...a torture for the pasta. And a torture for the cooks, because to see and be unable to eat it... is a torture. Now... we listen to it. As soon as see it begin to sizzle like this.... ... it's the moment to add more tomato broth. Let's listen... I add two [ladles] at a time. At the beginning. Soft ... lovely color. Look here--look at the beauty. And now, sauce... we continue. We torture this pasta...We torture it! A slow and painful cooking death... Heavy pan... You can't flip the pasta in it. It needs Schwarzenegger for that. mmmm... smells good. It's truly here and now that you get the sense of this pasta. In fact, it's not just a matter of creating the right crispiness.. That's just part of the story. It's the slow cooking (like a risotto) of the pasta that produces this intense fragrance and taste. That can't be accomplished by cooking the pasta in normal water. In fact, the spaghetti --good sponge that it is-- Absorbs all the essence of the tomato. And we taste this marvel, I assure you it will leave our tastebuds with an unbeatably intense flavor. This dish that has left many perplexed... and is totally misunderstood by amateurs... &quot;It's just reheating pasta in the pan!&quot; &quot; &quot;What kind of cooking method is this?!&quot; &quot;Now you want me to buy an iron pan?&quot; Guys, if this is the spirit, you'll end up with an uninspired result. Just make a bit of spaghetti with [regular] tomato sauce then... For the Killer Spaghetti, we need to be serious, meticulous and cruel ;) If you need to adjust the salt, do so now. I don't need more salt. See how it is attaching here at the bottom? And therefore it will continue to crisp up the spaghetti. There, see here how it is sticking? Ah, look here. How beautiful. Try it, the intense flavor, the color blood red... Unique. Try it and fall in love. And don't forget to SUBSCRIBE to 'PIATTO', click the bell ... and let us know in the comments how YOUR 'Assassin's Pasta' turns out!