Hallo Studenten! So what should you do every day!? Well, if you're already working with videos on YouTube, you're getting some But as your German teacher, I am excited to students that go from just dabbling in something like this. So I'm going to show you this drill also set repeatedly on your own. And we're going to do the drill six times difficult and with a different focus, a So we're going to look at some of the that's something to deal with, nouns, you declensions that ties in as well. I'm really, really excited to share this So without further ado, let's get started. This is how you set it up. So notice that there are columns and in the together, right? Or parts of speech. So here I have 'der die das', which are Right? The masculine way, the feminine way, In the second column, now I have a series of These are all masculine, feminine or neuter And then in this next column, just a single And in the final column I have some common So then how we do this exercise is we are selections and then write it all out, right? We're like, we're stringing sentences So again, I'm just going to show this to you So if we start with 'der', okay, So we're 'the'. So we have to pick a masculine noun. So for example, 'Opa'. Okay, 'der Opa'. Now in the next column, we don't have a It's just 'ist'. And we're doing that on And then in the final column, picking out an 'Der Opa ist ald'. Okay, that's our first sentence. So then we go through again and we make a So now we need to choose a feminine noun Again, in the next column, we don't have an And then in the final column we choose a small 'Die Schwester ist Klein'. Okay, so notice that the focus of this that here we're practicing noun gender and nominative case, right? For subject nouns. And that's then all about the 'der die das' nouns in the second column. So one more example with this particular Now using the neuter way of saying 'the' used for subject nouns, then we have to pick child. Then we kept the verb simple, right? For all of these people, it's just 'ist' the For is. And then for good measure, we're 'Das Kind ist freundlich'. The child is friendly. So again we have 'Der Opa ist alt.', 'Der freundlich.'. So now on to the next drill. Again, it's the same setup. We have the same columns. It's even still just four. But now this time, we're going to be So we still have 'der die das'. I put in an additional 'die' as the plural That's kind of an optional thing if you find just the one word 'die' in the column and for plural nouns, that's fine. But I decided to break it up this way. So now, still drawing on some of those nouns, we have &quot;Frau, Kind, Manner, right. The plural of Mann is Manner, (men), Kinder So now in the next column, we have to have It can't be just 'ist'. We also have to have 'sind' for those plural So now if we run through this drill, we make 'Der', okay, now we need a masculine noun So for example, 'der Mann', we have to So that's still going to be 'ist', just like And then whatever adjectives suits our fancy In this instance 'gross' Der Mann ist gross, Now on the next one we're choosing 'die' and The one that I put down at the bottom. So now we're going to choose a plural noun Now we have to say 'sind', right? So that means 'are' the children 'are'. And then we pick out a new adjective such as Final example. 'Die', but now the feminine singular, 'die' Beautiful. Die Frau ist schon. So then to recap, we have Der Mann ist gross. Die Kinder sind jung. Die Frau ist schon, drill, focusing on plural nouns in the adjectives. So now move it along. This is the third iteration. We're going to focus now on that 'verb' So we still have 'der die das' and 'die' We're going to work with those exact same Just 'Mann' 'Frau' Kind' and then their And now. Wow. Check out our verb column. This has grown. Okay, so we have 'war' and 'warren' as the So, this is 'were' in English. But of course in German we have two and now this plural way, and then still Then we have 'wird' and 'werden', which is Right? So 'we'll be' and then 'ware' and And then all of those same adjectives, So notice that when you're doing this drill, what thematic vocab you're going to work members. And it's also important that out of is your grammar focus, right? You don't want to have every column just, At least you don't want to start there. It's better, like how you saw in the very that are so bare that they maybe even have So you're not making an actual selection at those are the ones you're focusing on. Here, since a lot of this is repeated, okay, columns that are full because it's a lot of Okay. So if we run through this, for singular 'die Frau' what are we going to Okay, 'ware'. So, 'the woman would be'. The emphasis is on the verb tenses here. That's what we're practicing with this drill Die Frau ware reich. Right? So the woman would be rich, you know, idea or if she had followed through with a Die Frau ware reich. Okay. And then it really should have more of information with that. But anyway, we're staying focused. Das Kind war klein. Okay, so 'das Kind war klein'. The child was small or short, and then of And then finally 'die', but now the plural Die Manner werden alt. Okay so the men become old, right? Are getting old or will be old. Die Frau ware reich. Das kind war klein. Die Manner werden alt. All right. This brings us to drill four. Here, we're going to be focusing on take declensions. The adjectives that we have used in the grammar term 'predicate adjectives', or, as they don't take declensions. But in German, if you have an adjective that a declension. And so that's how we get these kleines, kleinen'. And that has to then line up with either the before, or else I've added in an 'ein' and in the nominative case. Then we're back down to the more reduced So we don't have to think so hard about that And then a simple 'da' at the end for So we really don't have to think about that. So we're focusing on how we pair up the call them articles and then the second on them, also called attributive adjectives. And then the third column of nouns and how gender of the noun. So, for example,'der' is going to have to be And if we say 'der', then the adjective is weak 'e' declension. Then we choose 'Mann'. That's really our only singular masculine And then since it's singular, we have to say The short man is there. Der kleine Mann ist da. Okay, the next example. Now we're going to say 'ein'. So this is 'a' and it's how you would say noun. Okay. And we're going to use it for a neuter noun. 'Ein kleines', right? And then 'Kind' (child), singular 'ist', and So a small child is there. 'Ein kleines Kind ist da'. Third example, 'die'. This is the plural 'die': 'die kleinen' And now plural 'sind' and 'da'. Okay, so to do these drills, right? You're coming into it with certain grammar right now. I'm assuming that you know what Because you have to have an understanding of what the vocabulary is that you're working exercise. All right. Now, in this drill, we have a fourth So this would be used for the feminine . 'Eine kleine Frau ist da'. So a small woman is there. Eine kleine Frau ist da. So then in sum, we had Der kleine Mann ist da. Ein kleines Kind ist da. Die kleinen Kinder sind da. Die kleine Frau ist da. Now, in the fifth drill, we're going to be declensions that change because of the So we're going to go back to just our 'der, We're going to go back to this same set of the beginning in drill one. And I think that was the only drill that it And then now one verb, right? So again, we're keeping as many columns as what it is that we're really wanting to home So 'sieht' meaning 'sees' and then we have masculine option. Then 'eine grosse'. That's the feminine option. And now 'ein grosses' is the neuter option Used for direct objects. And then you have to select a masculine column. And all of these nouns are for like Farm animals. So show you this drill, der Sohn (So that these, eine grosse And now I have to, from order to match with the declensions that are accusative case. So if I choose a feminine noun 'Sau' okay, sieht eine grosse Sau. Or we can say. Die Tochter (the daughter) 'sieht' make another selection 'einen grossen'. Okay, so because of the declensions, right, 'gross', this has to be a masculine noun in So we have to choose a masculine noun such Die Tochter sieht einen grossen Hund. So if you are a beginner and at this point overwhelmed, that's okay. That's understandable. And I have other videos that cover the right now. Cover that more in depth. So I encourage you to watch those videos. Okay. But moving on to our next example, for track with me, Das Kind sieht ein grosses. So this is going to be a neuter noun in the 'Kaninchen'. Okay. Das Kind sieht ein grosses Kaninchen. The child sees a big bunny. Okay. So then we recap those. Der Sohn sieht eine grosse Sau. Die Tochter sieht einen grossen Hund. Das Kind sieht ein grosses Kaninchen. Okay, this is our final drill. Drill number six. Okay, so we still have the 'der, die, das'. We still have these family members. Now we have a new verb. But again, it's just one because that's not So 'gibt' meaning 'gives'. And now check it out. We have the dative case. You have all of the same barnyard animals But now, instead of being in the accusative by the 'dem' and the 'der'. Right, so the 'dem' being used for masculine feminine nouns. And now you have three options in the feminine option, and a neuter option. So you go through building sentences. Das Kind gibt der, so it's going to be a We have to choose a feminine noun 'Kuh' and options where all the declensions have been Such as Das frische Futter. Okay. Das Kind (the child) gibt der Kuh (gives. the cow) das frische Futter (the fresh feed). Right? So like feed pellet kind of stuff. Or we could say, 'die Schwester (sister) And after this selection, we choose either a which is masculine. Den bunten Klee. So over here I'm also choosing the masculine the actual meaning of it makes the most That the sister is giving the ram the Okay. Die Schwester gibt dem Bock den bunten Klee. Final Example. Der Mann gibt dem Kalb die warme Milch. Okay. Der Mann gibt dem Kalb die warme Das Kind gibt der Kuh das frische Futter. Die Schwester gibt dem Bock den bunten Klee. Der Mann gibt dem Kalb die warme Milch. All right. So now how do you do more drills like this by This is the setup. Work with a page, one page for every drill. Then you have to choose a title in that you right? What grammar do you want to focus on? Do you want to focus more on the nominative Do you want to focus on some aspect of You want to really practice the declensions and how you pair that all up based on the You have to decide what you're focusing on. You have to also know what vocabulary you're And I highly recommend that you use thematic vocabulary like people, clothing, furniture, not just random smatterings of words. Okay, that would be what I recommend. Unless perhaps part of your the work that or something where you're getting a lot of that vocabulary. I could see that. Okay, But if that's not the case, I Then in every column I would max it out at Personally, I wouldn't do more than that just did three sentences for every drill, word in the column that you're really Yeah. Or if you want to get all the more out word. Right? The idea is to use a drill as can. Right. And getting a lot of variety and internalize the information, both the Okay. So then as you saw in so many of the instance, where there is just the one if you have to, two selections, right? But try to have your focus columns be the as simple as you can make it. Okay. Then once you have your drill set up I've already mentioned, right, that you're word extra bonuses. If you do some sort of color coding system analyze the sentences that you're writing have your columns at the top of the page, know, many lines of space where you can that you're doing. So then with those code for case. I always do that with my students. Or color code the gender of the noun, stuff analyzing what you've just written to concepts. All right, then. Very crucial. If you really, really want to learn, you You should have a native, check your work. And you know, there are various platforms native speakers of, you know, whatever speaker who for some free exchange or else drills for you and be able to tell you if Because the last thing you want to do is Right? So that's important. And then remember that just like you saw in created and then make just a minor tweak to That just furthers the learning where you unchanged, but essentially just choose a build that one out while shrinking other Right? But then like we did in this video, with in a series of drills with different And, you know, and that again, is just all to Okay. So all of this said, I am so excited you, after going through this video, feel kind that I could provide to you that you it's a template of this drill exercise or you that you can just print off and do or, I you can then plug in or some other idea of If you can think of something that you would that in a comment below. All right. Now I again encourage you if you video, even though there were places where I to the grammar that I was assuming you had search for my YouTube videos where I talk depth than I did in this one. Or if you want to just stay on for the ride here on YouTube by clicking on that next See you there.