Ladies and gentlemen, Kyle Kinane. - Oh my. More? Thank you. Wow. Thank you, thank you. It was a, Salt Lake City, natural choice. for profanity laden standup comedies. What's your target demo, Kyle? Oh, polygamous snowboarders, of course. Burlap clad winter sports enthusiasts, that's my wheelhouse. No. I played here in the past. Had a great time. Thank you for having me I do appreciate it. That, that being said, I wanna apologize off the bat, at the beginning of the set, I want to say my, my apologies, I'm gonna be clearing my throat occasionally throughout this. I have a condition called GERD. So don't get nervous. I know, you know, pandemic shit. You'll hear me I have GERD. GERD. That's what I have, is GERD, just me and my monosyllabic ailments. That's, if, if you've heard old bits. I also have gout, now I have GERD. Look out AIDS. I don't know what's, I don't know what I'm in store for, but if you don't know GERD, it's just acid reflux, but, turned one dial over. So it's GERD. So I don't get to have acid reflux, which at least sounds kind of cool. At least. Like, fuckin' acid reflux, dude, it sounds like an industrial band from the nineties, that was about to but then they all OD'ed, you know? Tour bus, tour bus flipped or something. GERD just sounds like a Swedish who never fully ingratiated himself during his semester in Lancaster, Just showed up like, &quot;I am Gerd.&quot; And they're like, &quot;Fuck you, Gerd.&quot; How about that? Welcome to America. Suck it. You know, he tried, you know, Gerd tried. He would get care packages try and share 'em with his classmates. But the kids who smoked wanted nothing to do with it. I don't even know why I don't like him. He is just weird. He's blonde. He's so blond, he's green. You know that shit? Get the fuck outta here with that. I don't know what that is. He always, he's always bringing made outta sturgeon or some shit. I'm not into it. I'm not into it. Take a hike Gerd, nobody wants your fish caramels. Should go play tether ball by move back home or whatever. There it is, all right. So, I got that. I also have, I had, I had appendicitis over the I had that, I got it between variants. Lucky me. Managed to get a hospital bed. Yeah, I had, I, I had appendicitis. I, I thought I'd gotten food poisoning, because, I routinely get food poisoning. And that is not the fault of That's just, that's on me. I, I, I know how I live, you know? I acquire food poisoning occasionally, through risky behavior. You know? If I was more sexually active, it'd be a venereal disease, but just, ah, man, I got that food poison again. You know, I've been out And, I, I, I got it. I ate at Chipotle, which that's okay. That's a low, that's a low That, oh, Chipotle. But like, also Chipotle Every year Chipotle has where they're like, Ah, yeah, I'm surprised we're back ah, somebody pissed in the Anyway, long story short, You know, we're sorry, but we're gonna, we're gonna make it up to you. We're gonna offer a BOGO for your loss. You get an extra burrito the lob, your bereavement burritos, bere for your bereavement. There's some, it'll tie together I don't know. But that's the thing, like, listen, I'm, I'm gonna go on the vaccine. I'm vac, I'm pro-vaccine, pro-science, but I behave One of those, is I keep I know it's dangerous. And I engage in that behavior freely. I'm like, it's freedom, not fear. I will not live in a prison made up of your paranoia. Not while they got that white anyway. So, so I, I ate that and like, I'm okay. I'm feeling, and like I, I can self-diagnose food I'm pretty familiar. I'm like, haha, here we go again. Dancing with this smelly 'Cause food poi, food poisoning in a way that it's just That's how food poisoning. If you've had it, you know, it's in there looking not sure where it's located. It's like, it's like a and their plan B wasn't really dialed in. You're like, uh oh, the What do we do, boss? I don't know. We can tunnel out the but we're getting outta this bitch one way or another. Like, that's, that's food poisoning. This was different. This did not behave like- This, this just made, this started making a little nest for itself, right over here. Started making a little home for itself. And I was like, Ooh, That's... We got, we gotta find, find out where... We went to the doctor and, doctor's like, &quot;Yeah, your, It hadn't, it hasn't ruptured 'cause they're gonna have So I went to the er, I went to a suburban hospital, where I live. I can tell it's suburban just unimpressed with having Just really, just a real, another for this surgeon. You could tell he is out &quot;Can't we get a god damn I went to school for real shit.&quot; As he came in the room he is like, &quot;Yeah, we're gonna give you a, so we're gonna give you a and three incisions and yeah...&quot; Laparoscopic appendectomy. He said that once. He only said that one time. Laparoscopic appendectomy. And that was enough too, Because that's, they So you know, it's a- Laparoscopic appendectomy. Esquire, the third, pump the brakes. But he just called it that, one time. After that, he just called it a lappy appy. I don't know about you guys, but I'm not a fan of a nonchalant Say the whole word. Earn your money, say He wasn't even saying it to He was just saying it shortening his job. We could lappy- 'Cause they were saying it out in the hallway too. They were just like, what's in room nine? It's a lappy appy, it's nothing exciting. Like. Don't do cute nicknames If I live, we could be Afterwards, just, shit man, we could put glitter on the scars. I don't give a shit. But beforehand, say the whole I have to go under anesthesia. People don't make it through I could still die, even if it's routine. What if I die? That's it, I died, without any information about what was happening. I just show up in heaven, or whatever I qualify for at this point. I don't know, I definitely have some strikes against my license by now. But anywhere you wind up with a clipboard's, like, &quot;Oh man, you weren't And the best I can say is like, I guess my lappy appy went whoopsy poopsy. Didn't get much more But yeah, well, thank So we're here today. That, so I was thinking, but like that's, unless you had a situation you have an appendix, in your body, right now, doing nothing. Except maybe, making a doctor $25,000. They just let us leave the That's what they, this we got another baby born with an unlit stick of dynamite in it? Sure do. Out the door. Should we, should we do Nah, man, I want, I might want A bunch of walking scratch off tickets for doctors right now. That's that intelligent design. Every baby born with a time bomb. You know it, there you go. Out in the world. Meanwhile, I was That was the thing. That was the thing. Like, oh, we can't have him have that. Uh oh, hey, we got another Can't believe you think it evolution would take care of it. Nah, babies keep doing, too much, too much noodle. Oh, should we wait till he is old enough to make up his own mind? Nah, nobody's ever wanted At least not in the United States. Nope, just an American I guess this is all right. Look, would like to have a choice. Why is that the worst thing? Why is that the most horrible part of a new baby boy that has to, the devil's calamari. Get it off of him. Why is that? Why is that? Listen, I may have ruined and you know what? Good, good, I'm glad I did. We gotta stop eating those animals. They're smart animals. We gotta leave 'em alone. Those are intelligent things. And you got, I'm sorry, for the next trip you Now, you don't get to You getting a calamari? I just, maybe I could eat the whole squid, but I can't eat the rings, Why not? That's the best part. I, a guy said a thing. I don't wanna ruin your experience. Just, I can't. I just can't. You're gonna dip that marinara? Oh, I, I know we're here, but I do not feel like family right now. So I got that going on. I'm, I'm just happy to I'm happy to be back doing live comedy. We've been back for a little I can't perform comedy without of a human interaction. I need like, hey, here's a joke, and if you don't laugh, I work on it and then I try it again. And if you do laugh, I'm like, nice. And, serotonin gets filled up. You know, over pandemic, I was writing what I thought was comedy, but I didn't have this Turns out I was just That's all I was writing. I was writing little manifestos. And I wouldn't find out just weeks later, when I which was just the bane of my existence. I'd just sit there and just Like, that's perfect. I've never written anything funnier. And then just sit in the darkness for weeks, with a bottle, and then my computer would light up, like time for Zoom comedy. And I would just lean in. I was just pale and too Just like every conspiracy theorist, like, five G makes 'em read your minds, like that was, just too close, with like in the background. To do comedy. And I'm like, all right, Kyle, you're up. And I just say some shit like, the problem with the left empathetic towards people And that's why we're never That's not like funny at all, man. That's, I get what you're saying, but you can't, now, they're recording this. Now you gotta explain jokes to the F B I. Is that what you wanna do? You wanna explain comedy to the feds? 'Cause that's what you have to do now. So I'm glad just to be back out. And even, even just the, even just the minutia of doing live stand- I mean, the stuff that I'm like excited to be back to I'll be happy with. I'm excited to be on airplanes again. I'm sure, you know, I'm sure that it'll get But I just like being on there. I, I like saying thank you to the pilot, when I walk off the plane. I like doing that. How many people say thank you to the pilot when you get off the plane? Alright, it's a decent amount, but it's not everybody. What's wrong with you? Why you gotta be a jerk? That's all they want. That's all a pilot wants. If you fly, that's the first thing. As soon as they park, the door They're just like, Hey, hey, did you notice You're welcome. You're welcome for that. I did that for you. And we all just shuffle off in Like, don't make eye contact with me. So rude. That's all they want is They're up there. They're tucked in up there. They are tucked in with And we're back there with like Nodding off on pills and They're wearing a god damn You ever look in a cockpit? It's a panic room. It's just a chamber. It's a chamber of anxiety for And they know, they know, all the buttons, all the switches, they know what to do. The windshield, that's arbitrary. That's for us. If a pilot sees something we're dead, we're already dead like that. Nobody's gonna get on a That's for you guys to feel all right. If something's going wrong We're straight up fucked, At the beginning. Or they get in there and just know. They're like every switch. Like, don't die, don't die, don't die. Will not die, we won't die here. Won't die if I do that. Better not die, better Oh, here's the big old good luck lever. We need that, don't die, Shit, almost- If I didn't do this, we Fuck, thank God. Don't die, and here we go not dying. And then we all just, hung over, shuffling off, like, the landing was a Meanwhile, I will tip a Lyft driver like an angel that walks the earth. I will, I will just throw my whole wallet at somebody. Like, thank you for being a who drove me home from the bar that I walked to five hours ago. You're the most blessed angel. What's your name? I'm gonna name my They're already born, but they suck. And maybe with your So I'm gonna call 'em that. And that's, thank you for your service. I've said thank you for your more than I've ever said to anybody in an actual military uniform. And they show up, went off at the dorms, Just wearing a free t-shirt. They have like three whole Thank your pilots. Just make sure, Hey, thanks. They want it, they want it. Just thank 'em. I, alright, well, I don't work for the It's human decency, you know? Even the little things about tra- like even just staying in hotels, I have to stay in hotels for this. And I, I like staying in hotels. They're always tidier I like that. I'm like, oh, that's what Ah, that, Look at that. It's just not this omelet of And don't be the per, there's I like staying in hotels. Somebody's like, hotels are filthy. I'm gonna show you a YouTube with a black light. Don't, don't do that. Don't be that person. I know, I'm not an asshole. I'm aware of what the world is like. Let people like what they like. Don't think that you're better because you ruined what Oh, you like hotels? Don't look behind the That's the type of person that's like, &quot;Oh, you like shrimp? You know that line on the back is poop?&quot; Shut the fuck up. Just shut up and let people like what they like. I know, I just need the That's all I need. I know what happens in a hotel room. I do those to things in the hotel room. I'm leaving $5 on the nightstand and I'm taking this towel with me. I don't need any Dateline I know, don't look, don't Don't look at this, don't Don't ever look at a pillow. Just do, do that for, don't ever look at a pillow. Just buy new pillow, just buy new ones. If you're a single man in here, leave now, go buy new pillows. Go. You might be able to catch right now. Stop by anybody's mailbox, take their coupon, go get 20% off. You're like, why do I need new pillows? That's why you need new pillows. That's exactly why you need new pillows. You don't notice the decay You know, as a permanent, but eventually, like me, I did my bed laundry- Okay, linens, if you're a jag off. I did my bed laundry. I did my bed laundry in the daylight once. And I, unsheathed the pillow. I don't know how I got pillows. I moved, I had one pillow, then I had three pillows. Then we were up to seven. Now it's back down to four. No idea. Not, that's just like living in a commune. Like, ah, what happened to Randy? Randy went on. Got a corporate job in the city, man, really folded. Okay. But, so you think a pillow's, a pillow. That's just a fluffy white that's what that is. Hmm, No. What I unsheathed that day, it was no longer a pillow. I don't know, I'm not sure what it was. It had the same, just, texture and patina as, like It just, what I pulled out of that pillowcase, it was just, flatter than It had, it just had a, Just a, just a sunset like slickness Oh, the edges were curled and crumbled. This side's burnt. How did that even happen? It looked like a map to the new world. That's what it looked like. It looked like a, it looked like whatever that eventually just spread out and made a rudimentary idea of the eastern seaboard of the Americas. That's what was over here. Clearly where my, it And this is where all the old That's, that's what, spice routes were. That's what the spice routes. You couldn't be gay back in the 1200s. And so you just had to make up excuses. Like, fellas we're going on a cruise. And then, and then people in the &quot;Where are you going?&quot; We're like, we're looking for cinnamon. That's gay. That's super gay. But it's the best excuse they had to get the fuck out of there. Are you enjoying a zesty dish? Thank the gays, that's from them. Appreciate the gays for that. This part of the pillow just Nobody's goin' there And whatever does that to the pillow, came out of my face. That comes outta your face and you have no idea what's happening. You don't know, you're unconscious. Now it's just run rampant. Just fuck- Open up every valve you Oh, I snore, but probably cute like. Probably whimpers and wheezes. Probably like a new little kitten. No, you snore like a That's how you snore. You snore like a fire That's how you snore. And you think you can forget which is now, just a sponge that collects the memories of your nightmares. Just a document, of your savagery, of your midnight savagery. So anyway, I don't look at I just like stay- Thank you. I, I like staying in the hotels. I, I, I like, I, I lay That's my cheap thrill nowadays. Because that's all I, I can't, I, I made it this far without too many issues from partying and stuff. So I'm counting my lucky stars. I just look for cheap thrills. That's what I like now. Just base level excitement. Like I use words in conversation that I don't really know what they mean. And that's my, that's my bungee jumping at this point. That's it, it's just like, sounds pretty ubiquitous to me. Non-sequitur? I think that's perfectly sequitur That's my cheat. I just like laying in and seeing if I get caught. That's like.. Checkout's at noon? We'll see. You gotta lay real still. You gotta be real quiet. I call it pulling an Anne Frank. That's what I call it. I lay there. Gets real scary when they're in the hall. Uh-oh! All right, we're shhh. We're fine, we're fine. Everybody's fine. I know it- Okay, it's hard to do that kind of joke when I look like I should be at home plotting to So. Let it be known. I have to say, I am not anti-Semitic. I'm like the most Semitic, I love 'em. I think they're doing great. I won't go to the Holocaust Museum though. Nope. Not- I'll, I'll explain. It's not like I'm just gonna move on to the next joke. He let that one hang No, I don't wanna go because I am a coward. That's it, that's, that's the simple- I, it, it happened, alright. That's not the route I'm going with this. It happened. I know it happened and Like the worst. And I know that. And I'm too scared to that would come with Like that's a, that's a big day. That's a, wow! You don't wanna do anything else? I think PBS is playing a Can we do, can we do anything else so I feelings of the horrors of man? Um, okay. And shit, maybe I'm wrong. Does anybody here want to Okay, all right, okay. And anybody who says yes, it's never like, okay, oh, I, I didn't know tomorrow. Like, I have plans, but let's put it on a calendar and think about doing the right thing. No, we're all cowards and that's okay. Glad the Holocaust Museum is there. It's there to educate people on, on that. And that's, that's why And that's how the majority Holocaust Museum, they are field trips, which I find a tad ironic. That's just some, somebody's like, oh, we how are we gonna get people in there? We, oh, we could transport It's like, whoa, hey. Has our marketing guy 'cause that's like, that's like a main thing that happened. You can't just look at the pictures. You gotta read the captions. They didn't just love trains, man. That one's a bit too far. That one went, tested your limit with the whole joke then I added that part. Alright, sure, no, sure. We'll edit it out. We won't, it's great, it's great. It's a great tag. I just, I, I, will say my part about vaccines and we'll get it outta the way. It was a shared experience regardless of what side you're on. I'm not here to be divisive. I don't think that's I'm gonna make my jokes about it. Hopefully they're funny enough you'll still laugh at it. Because I've just, I, being divisive doesn't help. I, I will say, as pro-vaccine, and I'm pro-science. I will say that right now. Also, I will say this, consider the source material. First off, I'm a comedian. I shouldn't be a part Ever, just ever. But, the being on the podcast, no, no. Also, I will tell you But know this. I also get sunburns every year. Multiple sunburns. And that science has been out there, since the sun since, since the first person has been like, &quot;Whoa, I gotta find some shade!&quot; That's, I ignore that science every year. That's the dumbest look you can have in a first world country, is an adult with a sunburn yeah, man I really thought I was gonna get around it this year. I, I was doing yard work, but I didn't think it was gonna get me this year. Nope, first nice day of the you don't wanna SPF too early you wanna get a good base coat. You wanna get a, you wanna brown up even, second nice day of the year, got shoulders that look like french bread pizzas. Then after that, I've clearly but I've done it alone and And you can see that, because you can tell I will squeeze it over my head and just let it drizzle down. Just magic shell style, just, oozing down my face. Just a little hot fudge Kyle. That's all. My head and face are a the holograms from the next to, ah, what's you barbecuing, blah. And the rest of it, I kind of pushed down around My back is just a series Just, furious slappings. Oh, it looks like, it looks like demons had But thank God the Coppertone was too slick and they couldn't get their Not today Satan, you will not capture my soul I managed to slip away in only burnt a spiky, tribal, Godsmack album cover looking thing. Relinquish your grasp hellions. And then after that, my sunburns are just some variety of what was exposed during I was wearing that day. Because summertime I get real dipshit in the fashion sense so it's like, ooh, short shorts, long shorts, flip flops, those huarache Tank top, T-shirt, half top. We were playing around with some stuff. I just have the same reds and that look like the weather that created the sunburn. So, like I said, grain of salt. But, I do think that, You should get the vaccine. I, I just didn't understand I, I didn't understand. That was the thing. Like people were like, you don't know what's in those needles. I'm like, yeah, that's what's fun. I did drugs. Not all of 'em, but you know, I never did needle drugs. Let's party. Let's get, let's find out. I did pills and other shit. Like what's this gonna do? Make me fuck or fight? Ah, let's see what happens. We mad at each other or I don't know. You don't know what's Fuck, you know? That was always said by people You don't know what's It was always said by 'Only God can judge me' Did it with a guitar string in India ink at his cousin's pig roast, you know? Fuck yeah. How many &quot;only God can judge me&quot; tattoos you think have been in a courtroom? I'll tell you right now. It's all of 'em. It's every single one of those tattoos. Every single person who has been judged by a terrestrial being. Only God can judge me. 18 months? Fuck, man. I think I might be lying I have to start wearing Even beforehand, even, even I just, the anti-vaxxers kind of, made me- Like, vaccines cause autism, man. The vaccines are causing autism. Fuckin, good. We probably need more autistic kids. - [Audience Member] Yeah! - They're the ones that keep And if you don't think that's individual in this day and age, all we do is keep getting That's all we do, is just like, oh, accept Come on, man I'm trying to It's only a matter of the machines took over the money out to pay my bills. What are we gonna do? Well, we could ask Toby if from building DNA strands outta Legos, long enough to save the world again. Do you mind Toby? We'd love your help. We'll get you the big Fuckin' need those kids, man. Shit. Greta Thunberg's autistic, she's trying to save the And the best we can come up with is, ah, she's like a girl. And, she looks weird. She's a kid, so, nah. Oh good, okay. I guess it's your unvaxxed, homeschooled, soft boiled degenerate that's Yeah, that kid, that's gonna overdose at an EDM concert and then fight with the paramedics is gonna be the one. Mama says on account means I'm just an angel for being here. Okay, we'll trust... Let's elect you into office. All right, that's a little Listen, I'm a little burnt out even on the people that I agree with 'cause it's getting a little too obnoxious on both ends of the spectrum. I'm, I'm a little sick That's woke, they're woke, but they insist on having their own brand new white babies still. Like, you can't, you can't be burdened with you can't be like, we are the problem. Anyway, here's another one. No, you, can't. Stop flooding the market It's not, it's not how economics work. But Kyle, you don't understand. I would, I, I don't care if I'll say, okay, this is where I gotta Because it gets heated. It's a little bit too even though I'm making the points, I'm in charge of what I'm saying. This is a part of the that's in my head, and I'm like, fuck, that's weird. And this is the part where to just do the laughs like it, I didn't do this whole weird, fuckin' neurotic in my brain thing. Oh, now the quiet's so weird. I'll say, okay... Well pretend I just said the part about the the babies. The babies, oh yeah, no. You know there's plenty of kids out there to upcycle right now, so you don't need a new one, or whatever term you wanna But then they'll try to defend it. Be like you don't understand Kyle, I, I, I, we're gonna raise our You need to raise your That's who's gonna survive. That's who's gonna live. It's not looking good out there. That's what you need. But, but Kyle, I wouldn't You should care if they have gills. You need a kid, that can breathe smoke or water. That's, you need a if you want any hopes of grandkids. Let's, I, okay. It's not the most comfortable subject to try and breach with comedy, being an anti-natalist and thinking the over population's a problem. But we're gonna give it a shot. I uh... I just, yeah, you're Utah, I know, I know. Again, I really picked I just- Listen. There's seven and a half billion That's a lot. And that's just right now. And we'll perish. I know the laughs are coming. But all I can think about I worked in warehouses all right? I just look at that logistically. I'm like, that's a storage issue. That's, and I just think at this point, at where we're at as a society, I think it's arrogant and cemeteries and golf courses That's- That's just... We gotta be realistic. That's an ignorant use of Neither of those groups of You don't if if you're You need zero land. If you're dead, you don't need any. Just cremation, in the wind. That's you need, you don't need. Like what about the box what for me to turn into nougat into? You don't need. You don't need it. Look at how many people are visitors are at a cemetery That's, that's a bad economic model. That's not going well. You don't need it. Nobody, that fuckin, where's your great grandparents buried? You don't know. If they're white, they were racist. So they're out there. The only person who knows is the guy from whichever country who's there doing the landscaping. So, I love that irony. That your old white racist relatives are now job creators for immigrants. It's the only person And they're hitting her headstone hard with the weed whacker too. Myrtle's looking like Nerda at this point. You don't need that much. And we put fences up around cemeteries. Because God forbid homeless No, we better keep 'em Oh, I'm sorry buddy. This is for eternal rest. You, you just look like you're I think it's a Chick-fil-A You go on a Sunday, you they're closed. And by rights you should be They're real Christians, so they should be able to just Put their money where their mouth is. And if you golf, listen, it's a hobby, but you We're just, we live in a You could play on any You don't have to settle for your shitty three par community course. You, I wanna play Pebble Beach today. You got a screen in your garage, you got a real ball, real club, and you could hit that You have that capability. You don't need all that land. Also, that's boring and intimidating if you want new fans. All that acreage, that fairway, nobody cares about that part. That's boring. People only even stop on TV that's when they stop. Oh, this is fun, now it's a tight game. We already have that. It's called miniature golf. We have that. It fits right in the city. It uses reclaimed water and AstroTurf. It's environmentally Low barrier to entry, It's good for it. Just that whole part, the fairway, the drive. Nobody gives a shit about And you're losing viewership. That's, if you like NASCAR, but NASCAR also includes and then, just... Gettin' in his regular car and then just sitting on the highway to then do the race. You're like, this is unnecessary. I don't know why I didn't need to watch this at all. I'll flip around channels on this. I mean, if you wanna keep both, you can make 'em one thing, fairly easily. All right, you know, it's but, we gotta think outside And you pull the headstones But then you put all, put all the names on a at the tee, so you can pay your respects to who you're gonna play through. You know? Or, leave the headstones up, wildly more inventive sport. You're making money hand over fist. Hey man, you like golf? I don't know, it's all right. What about pinball? Okay! Shit man, I thought I but then Pup Pup came through, knocked me right back out on the green. Here's my whole wallet. I'm gonna be here every weekend. Like I mentioned, I, you know, I was kind of a hypocrite Like I, again, I tell you, get vaccine, I'd tell you trust science. I went on a cruise. I went on a cruise during the pandemic. Yeah, all right, here it is. Yeah, I, I didn't think I was I got asked to do comedy on a cruise, then I was like, there's no way, that a cruise is gonna happen. Sure, I'll do the comedy cruise. And then the night before I can't believe I'm going on this cruise. But the, well, first off, of course, the cruise was gonna happen. It was a cruise. It was a heavy metal cruise. It was a cruise filled Of course that was gonna set sail. Metalheads are not scared of viruses. Do you know Metalheads? Like old school? They, they, half of with gonorrhea that they And they're proud of it. They're proud, they're hanging onto it like it's a sourdough starter. They're like, Yeah, man, these warts saw So of course that cruise was gonna happen. Also they, they had protocols. I did, I did. I forget whichever test in front of your computer and from the... Doctor, I just gave a stranger That's a, this special might not be the of me coming up soon. Yeah, I'm like, why are you Like, be in a laboratory. You got the same bad What, what is that a You just work for the cruise. You work for the cruise. I got this stranger and he's watching me, I'm four knuckles deep with a Q-tip into my gray matter. That's the closest I'm ever was that moment. It's a guy just watching Deeper daddy? Okay. What do you want me to do now? Spin it a little? Ooh you're sick, you're naughty. I feel shame but this Verizon bill isn't gonna pay for itself. So, went on the cruise, but like, of course cruises are just They were before this whole thing. They're designed that way. You're in an enclosed you're lubed up with Like you're gonna share problems. Like you're gonna, You're just gonna hand off things. You know, that's what's gonna, and, and it's designed that way. They say they take protocols. They go like, oh, we will do to make sure you're healthy. It's when they give you the questionnaire. You spend all your money then you spend your money to and then your bags are those are on the boat. All your money, all And there's a little guy in a fun kiosk. If you've never been on a cruise, there's a guy before you get on the boat, and he's just a little party guy, maybe he's got, maracas Like, time to buy your drink package. So you have to gamble on how gonna drink on the cruise And nobody is tame at that point. You're going on a cruise. Nobody's like, I better I'm probably gonna take it No, everybody's like fuckin' I will absolutely drink $975 on this cruise. You will not! You absolutely will not. By the next day you will have a one, shaky glass of white wine in your hand, just like, I at least gotta break 150 to feel good about myself. You're gonna poison yourself outta your own frugality. And now you spend more money on that. Now it's time to get on the boat. Here we go. And now you're on the plank. On the way to the boat, there's the boat. Sea water is just underneath There's the land, sayonara suckers. And that's when they hand That's what they expect you to be truthful, about your ailments, in that moment. And you, everybody, like nobody's, I got the sniffles. Always or never? What do you want me to say? I'm getting what? What? My parents are first cousins. You bet your ass they are. Let me on this boat, there's zip lines to be zipped. One of the questions like, How dare you? Do I have diarrhea? I'm going on a cruise. If I don't have it now, In a half hour, In a half hour I'll be on my third crab daiquiri of this voyage. It is not a drink that is included in the diamond package, is one that I'll assemble of any tropical beverage, that I will then take right to the buffet, which I will treat like Asparagus dipped in hot fudge? Why not, we're gonna die. That's where I'll get and hang them off the In 45 minutes an employee will come by the hot tub and tell me to cease my Because I will be in that hot tub playing my called guess the catch of the day. It's not a game, it's It's where I, Kyle Kinane, I'm sitting there swirling one crab leg around whatever warm gym, in the pitcher. I'll be wearing men's swim trunks, the old timey kind, where and an inner panty. Any stranger unfortunate enough to sit in that hot tub with me will just be subject, will now And I'll say, &quot;I wonder what the catch of the day is?&quot; And they'll go, &quot;Catch of the day?&quot; And that's when I'll just move revealing my netted genitals. And I'll say, oh, it looks like a shrimp That's the game, nobody wins. Nobody wins. Do I have diarrhea? I'll shit off the side of I'll hang my lily white and I will unload into the life rafts. Women and children first? Be my guest. What are you gonna do, turn it around? We're in international waters bitch. Don't call yourself Carnival if you're not ready for the implications. I don't go on many cruises. I'm gonna tell you a story. I'll take a break tonight. I know it's warm in here. I know you're not getting drinks. So thank you, I'm gonna tell you the story and then we'll get on our way. It's a longer story, but it's a story. It's one story. And then we're out to have a good time. So... Yeah. And to reset. I'm gonna tell you a story I now, at the beginning everybody got a little I was not sure what I didn't know if I was in an airplane, I didn't to gather in rooms anymore. I bought a van. I bought like a converted like camper van. 'Cause I'm like, shit, in front of somebody's house, open the side door, tell some jokes and move on to the next house, I'll do it. I'll, I'll pedal my wares old timey style. You know, I, I don't care. I'll Jehovah's Witness these Je-ha-ha-hoker's Witnesses. That's what it's called. Nope, nope. Gonna cut that one out, that's sucked. This is why I don't riff. It's like bought this van and, the first stop with it to and get used to it, I went down camping with friends. I went to Joshua Tree National Park. And yeah, okay, we know Joshua Tree, but also, you know, national parks. This is Utah. You have, hmm, whoa, muah, wow. Just, stuff that you're like, this is amazing. Arches? What's happening here? Look at, oh, dinosaur footprints? Oh, you mean god little Yeah, sure, Okay, I won't bother though. But, you know, but that is astonishing landscape. Just a little further south, Grand Canyon. I have to rub my eyes every this is not a painting, this is a geographic anomaly. A hole that big that I'm looking at. But then you go to Joshua and you're just like, ah... No, no, I say no, I see you got, you got the rock that's on top That's been, it was pretty wild. Yeah, look at that. Anyway, what's over this way? Oh bullshit. Oh, go ahead, look at it's on the rock and a couple All right so it's, you know, it's, it's nice that it's there, it's like a geographic It's just, it's, it's hot and of no value, but, we somehow keep trying to So, you know, and all the, all the honky witches from LA and the Stevie Nicks Recharge their crystals. Which all, alright, let's, all right, I'm making fun of it, but you know what, if, if you're not hurting anybody. Go have your special rocks. People have, people have rabbits' feet, have a put a rock on a window And the next day you hold you're not hurting anybody. Go for it. It's weird times. We all can extract energy in this world. If you're, yeah, listen, I get, I don't do crystals. That's not my thing. I find a balance and a just an equilibrium, whenever I see an attractive person getting on a Southwest flight last. That's... That's when I know, that there is some small in this world. You know, you just, just see a supermodel, just somebody gorgeous, And then you see that C and you know they have no idea. And you're like, oh honey, you're about to learn how Yeah, you got bumped off a now you're here with the great unwashed. This is gonna be fun. Because they always stand with nothing but middle seats open. They're just like, I don't, but I can't. But why? But what am I gonna do? You're gonna rub some That's what you're gonna do. Squeeze in here with some and make some friends. I like a little snort, have Laugh how you need to laugh. That's all, we went out there, and just did, drugs. I mean, like, it's like that. But not even, I don't even like, do you gotta do this? I don't even, just did mushrooms. I just think they're good for you. They're good for you psychologically. I'm doing, yeah, okay. And I'm not, I'm not gonna preach, I'm not gonna proselytize about it. Do 'em safely, do 'em around people that have done them before that you trust and do 'em outside. That's all you gotta- Don't do 'em in an apartment. 'Cause you're just like, it just has water that Anything's a wishing well if Is that where my car keys are? I'm turning it into a Ferrari. So just go, I mean, and I, but it's not, I mean, I, I am Just like I had a bad trip on this one. Not bad, bad, but like, I just, I was with a group of dudes and they, I was outnumbered as far as the And so they wanted to listen to jam bands. And I found a new kind of hell for myself. If jam bands are your thing, good for you. Bless your heart on that stuff. I do not hear a jam. I never hear a jam. I hear five stepdads who do That's what I hear. I, I don't care what name of It's one band for the names them all. It's called Noodly Lou And it's five dads in cargo shorts. And one guy wants to end it, Tommy! Tommy! Seriously though! Got a sitter for this weekend, Brian, Brian man! Bri- Look at me dude! Fuckin' see you bro. Count it down, Todd I gotta There's no end to this joke. It just goes on. In being, in being faithful the joke just goes on we do have to get out here. That really, that's no shit on that one. But, so, at the end of the weekend everybody left. And, you know, after we all sinking in the sand. Everybody left. I was the last one to leave, and my van did the same thing. It sank into the sand. Who would've thought big, wouldn't agree with each other? But I was the last one to go. So I'm just there by myself. Like, uh oh, I'm spinning the tires under the tires, trying to get traction. I, I wish I was the guy that knew those kind of things. Just, oh, we're just gonna leverage. You could put some weight and then the rear differential counterclockwise unless you grab traction. I'm not that guy. I had to look up on the for that part of the bit. The guy I was, like, they're It's around, but not forward. I'm just a guy who just is I usually, this is a lot of answers this. I did, I looked at my phone, had fantastic service out there. Go figure, Verizon. Hey, what are you in Full bars. Hey, you in an actual city where you live and conduct business? Why don't you suck our dicks? So that's... It's an odd choice for But I had full bar I'm like, all right. I, I called triple A. I don't know, I've been I think and I, and I don't Flat tire, I do it myself, I think I can call, call So I'm like, all right now triple A. And they're like, where are you located? I'm like, ha ha!. It's, it's out there. Because we weren't even of the national park where We were just out in the So I was just like, I, I, there's not a unless you wanna count cow skulls. I'll just, I'll drop a pin And, and to their credit, dropped a pin, within an hour, I saw a little white triple the dirt road that I came And I, and I could see, it's a big windshield. I could see from a distance is just like... And he pull, his window is he just goes, &quot;I can't do anything.&quot; And I was like, I know, but, now you're here and... Two heads better than one, huh? He was pissed, but he's obligated. So then we were just hanging out. Two of us were just leaning Neither one of us having any answers. And finally after a while, he just goes, &quot;I can call Garrett.&quot; He gave me no context to who Garrett- He just said it like, that's the, that's how we're gonna do He, does Garrett work for triple A too? Maybe Garrett has an Maybe Garrett has a gun and he's gonna put a bullet in my head and you guys are gonna for selling my van. And you can tell me that plan 'cause you know, like, Let me tell you exactly how so... But I have no choice but to be optimistic. So I'm like, &quot;oh Garrett? Yeah!&quot; Shit, I mean, I don't know That's a guy who gets something done. Garrett will get it done. I don't know what it is, but he'll do it. I, Garrett, yeah- And this guy wasn't having my shit. He goes, &quot;He's got a 350.&quot; I'm like, oh man, maybe you can get like a 400? I don't know, what are we talking, I don't know- If these numbers are important can you get more of the numbers? He's also got a Cummins. I'm like, what's that? I hope that's a goin's. He was, he wasn't into, he He wasn't feeling it. So he shuffled off, and he called Garrett, and within 20 minutes this Mad Maxian cloud just appeared on the horizon. Just, just tearing at us, as if born of the setting sun. This was the phoenix that was Garrett. And he was coming right at us. Now, you know, national parks and as they should be, they're But you get there and They're like, stay on the trail. Leave no trace, pack in what you pack out. Don't look at any of They can't know you're here. Actually we'd prefer it if you left. That should be the slogan for national parks. Welcome to your national parks, You're really only harming Garrett was not adhering to those rules. Garrett was a firm believer in way between two points So he was driving as the crow flies. Save for a couple swerves into the namesake shrubs. There was a co, couple deliberate moves where I could- Garrett was driving like had just fucked his mother and he was taking it out on There was a couple hard jerks of the wheel where you could tell, he's like, &quot;Just 'cause your dick's in her doesn't mean I'm calling you dad.&quot; So that's, that's what was tearing at us. I could see it was a truck. It's called a truck. Truck, truck, truck. Gimme a truck. I want a truck. Taller, taller than that? Taller. Gimme another one, put Tall! Now, wide. Make it a dually; thick. I want a thick truck. I want a truck with sexy hips. I want a juicy, curvy truck. I love my curvy truck. Gimme a thick, tall, leggy curvy truck with a big ass, breedable ass. Big, wide breedable ass. Something I can hang Gimme a big, thick curvy- But nuts, put nuts on it. Make sure there's nuts. Dangle some nuts. Dangle some little nuts Thick truck, thick, curvy truck with nuts. Yeah, she'll do, she'll do. I got her parked around Don't tell me you don't understand pronouns at that point, when you got a big, curvy truck with nuts that you call she and her, Look at your truck, dude. You fuckin'- You white trashed yourself into being progressive. You didn't even know. And it was tall, and I get, I understand that there's some especially out there, you But you know that some of these dudes, that are getting lift kits, like there's, they're just using altitude You can tell, that some of those guys have, You know what you did. You probably- You concocted your own legal loophole, where you just, you can't serve me papers if you can't reach me, dude, that's, that's the law. That's just the law. That's the law. Just laying flat in the cab looking for money. Fuck, she still out there, dude? Fuck, oh! What money Cherise? Look at this exhaust system So that's what's coming at me. As it gets close, I can see that there's He's got graphics. And it's, it's, it's like a graphics, like a wrap, and it's the front of it. That's all I could see so far. It's skulls. Skulls. Yeah, skulls. I get it, skulls, they're But as he's getting closer, I could see that all skulls have, they're wearing gas masks. And that's, was confusing me, because I was like, &quot;Why if you're a skeleton person?&quot; You don't have a respiratory system. What do you, what do you got allergies? You don't got lungs, man, you can't. Oh, the, the, the disease, out the ribs, you're fine. But then I was like, oh, they were people, they but they didn't work, Ooh, heavy shit, Garrett. But then he got even closer had big smiles on behind the gas mask. And I was like, Garrett's rolling in here with more questions than answers. And then Garrett, he finally Then he pulls in, and now, I can, now I'm on the I can see the profile of the truck. Now I can see the side. I see that the skull wrap, it gives away, it didn't It was like, it was like, clawed away. Like, like the bald eagle came and like, you experienced the justice. And then, because then the back half was just, it was all text, it was all like script, whatever font the constitution's I don't know what it's called. Patriot sans or whatever. But that, that was all over the And I'm reading, I'm like right away, I'm assuming probably two A, That's the kind of thing Never really championing You never see a bumper That's just like, sing your truth. It's never, it's never that. It's usually some sort of come and take it type situation. So I'm reading it, but as I'm reading it, I don't see anything about you know, defend, I just see, shall prevent against and personal property and all that stuff. I'm like, that's the fourth amendment. My man Garrett has his truck wrapped in the Fourth Amendment. And that's when I realized something very specific You don't just cherry pick. You're not just like, I'm an American pick one, I don't care. Wrap it up dude. Something went wrong, with Garrett, for him to So that he got, I don't, he he got busted selling reptile eggs on the dark web. But he found a flaw in the he could defend himself in court. That's the best I could come up with. He just showed up and just, well, respectfully, your Honor, okay, the warrant is looking and if I could point you to exhibit A, the evidentiary photographs, and you do not see any Bolivian salamander eggs here, do you? I'm not to the untrained eye, these are Honduran geckos. Now that is a similar spotting, for any, any people out there that wanna, But these are legal. And I believe the 13 to 18 the states that are stuck together. As long as I fill out the proper paperwork at the post office. Ergo, ergo your Honor, respectfully, this whole thing should be thrown out. Ergo. Respectfully. And you could tell she She's like, that's the third No, god damn it, $75 fine. And that's what just Like, not in my America, hell I will not be treadeth upon. You're treading on me. I don't wanna be treaded on, Fourth amendment. I'm not putting up with this shit this no more. Fuckin', you do not tread on me. You don't, nobody tread. By the way, by the way, I do have the rattlesnake eggs from the don't tread on me flag. But, but hit me up on my Hotmail because the feds are monitoring I'm still just making up the- I've not met Garrett yet. First impression I have I saw his feet, 'cause I I was eye level with the step rail. First thing I saw of Garrett, was underneath, I I could see underneath the truck, I saw two little dangling That's what I saw. Just out there, just Just, you know. And I do not, I, for all the details, I, I do not remember the size of Garrett. I don't remember because if you have to exit your vehicle like you're leaving a tree house, you're gonna look like a little fella. You're gonna look tinier But I kinda liked him right leap of faith to get outta there. And he did it. I even without seeing him, I could see it was a good attitude 'cause the way he came &quot;Haha, here's Garrett!&quot; Like a real, like real I liked it. So he came around the front, and this is the first time now I'm seeing Garrett in his full form. And he had this look, I, you probably know his look out here, it's very much a west coast kinda look, I don't know how to describe- It's, it's like, it's kinda like, LA gangster, but then it's also like, white trash kind of, dude. Not in a, but like, but like Suicidal Tendencies like- You know, it's, it, it's like, it's the tall socks and the long shorts, but then it's a Monster energy shirt, or some sort of energy drink. And, and, and then, but like the kind of even if he only spent one is still like saying like, &quot;Back Like they love something about the Oh man, when I was incarcerated, like, you were there for 12 hours. And then the face is And I, and I'm still scared of that look, whatever age, I don't care, because even if you're not You still have like a sleeve tattoos and you do weird flips on motorcycles. I'm not gonna fight you. You know, you have butterfly but will still take them out. Fuckin' what bro? What? Flurry of chrome dude, flurry of chrome. And then the neck up. it's It's, it's a, it's a goatee, but you could tell it's that it was bigger. You could tell that. You could tell they asked Jesus for it. They're like, at night, just- Please. Doink! Oh, thank you! And the part that throws me off the most, is that there's always a flat brim hat. Flat brim ball hat, that's way too big. It always looks like a Peanuts character. And then they tuck their Do you guys know this Alright, the ear thing throws me off the most. Because the rest of it, like, you know, desert, tweaker, But then, the ears in the hat thing That's like real Rudy vibes toughness of the rest of it. 'Cause like, kind of tough, kind of tough, tough, tough, tough. And then up here it's just like, &quot;Coach says, once I grow into the uniform, I'm gonna be a real scrapper.&quot; And, that's so confusing. Either way. That's who stood before me. This was Garrett. And he didn't waste any time. He goes, &quot;That's your van?&quot; I'm like, yeah. He's like, &quot;Fuckin' sick.&quot; And, went, he just had chains, chains, chains. Got right back into his truck, pulled me right back onto the dirt road. Yeah. And that was it, that happened that fast. And I was like, oh shit, What I realized then, is that we had not discussed payment, yet. Yeah, we didn't go over that part. Now I am in the desert, and And it's not often, that later in life, you get to have a new kind of fear. But I was like, uh oh, we I don't have cash and I don't have grass. I guess what I have right But I did have credit cards. Garrett's like, he is like, &quot;200 bucks.&quot; I was like, oh, do you take credit cards? He goes, &quot;I'll take your credit cards.&quot; I, I meant, I meant as payment, not as just strong arm robbery, but... He's like, &quot;No, no, I got a square for my phone to swipe.&quot; I'm like, of course you do. It's great service out here. Of course. Full bars, yeah okay. I mean he's like 200 bucks. I'm like, there's no way Just tell me what you're gonna buy when you steal my credit card information, I'll get it for you. I don't wanna reset pin numbers, just put together an Amazon I owe you, let me hook you up. That was it, it was 200 bucks. There's no discrepancies on and he got me out of there. And that's the end of that story. And it should be a good end. It's, it is, it is a good end. In theory. Well, the reason it's not a good end, is because, now I can't judge And that suck- At 45, you wanna be I got things figured out. Now all of a sudden I can't judge a book by its cover anymore. And that's a drag. That's my safe place in this world. That's where I feel comfortable, is walking around thinking and so fuck them. That's how I feel good. Look at you, you dress like an asshole. I bet your kids don't love you. Oof, you got a girl pregnant in high school. Thank God I'm better But no, now Garrett has to come along and flip the script on me, and now I gotta sit behind those trucks on the highway and think like, instead of wanting to see him flip over and burst into flames, I'm like, you might be saving an asshole like me from dying in the middle of nowhere. Godspeed Garrett, I And it's weird because, and I think the world wants It's a bad character trait, And I know that, I'm still that way. Garrett, that was part one of the lesson. I think part two is the fact that at 45, I dunno if it's age or if that I'm on now, because I always have some pee in my pants. Not a lot, just like All the time, just all the time. Not enough to go to the doctor about, but enough to keep me humble. So I leave it there. I leave it there, because I want to be a better person. I don't want it there. I drip it twice and then I You're gonna pay up, right? Yeah boss man, yeah. Then as soon as I put it back, in my, my pant- Betrayal. Just boom. As soon as I put it in there, just a little three lick Meow meow meow. Just right there on the front. Like, ah ya! Cold tip, permanent cold tip. So between Garrett and that, I think the universe is 'Cause I'll still, I'll revert to that kind look at this asshole over here. I bet... Oh, I bet, I bet you got a and then you never talked to her again. And then some part of my brain's like, you think he's got some You know what? Probably not. I don't know anything about you, you don't know anything about me, let's just get on in this world Salt Lake City, thank you so very much. I can't thank you enough. Thank you guys.