This video was made possible by the Crew 2--a More about it after the video. No sport is as logistically challenging as While equipment matters in any sport, in motorsports is the other half. The performance of a motorsports vehicle is in the right place at the right time so the Racing may be a sport but it's not all fun Teams are businesses--businesses that are The most valuable Formula 1 team--Scuderia This means this team is valued at about as or DoorDash. The wealthier teams, like Ferrari, are able more equipment and spare parts which can make when things go wrong. Formula 1 is by many measures the most international Over its 21 yearly races the teams traverse events. A chaotic ballet of trucks, boats, and planes year. Ten teams compete in Formula 1 and despite a European sport. Eight of the ten teams are registered in and Only the Indian and American teams are from based in the UK while the US team, based in base in the UK so that its staff doesn't between each of the European races which in with the brief interruption of the Canadian summer. Thanks to this, the European leg of the season logistically because within Europe you can The cost of shipping by truck is so comparatively whole buildings with them to the European These buildings are what are modestly referred as Red Bull's three story structure that a complete kitchen. All of that packs into a number of trucks Along with all the other equipment including of dozens of trucks per team criss cross the Typically races are held every two weekends to relocate before activity begins on the to time the schedule is crunched and races This proves a more daunting logistical challenge down, transport, and reassemble their equipment Even worse, for the first time ever the 2018 in a row. On June 24 the French Grand Prix took place Austrian one was held in Spielberg finishing Grand Prix in Silverstone. The Austria-UK transfer was the most difficult including through the choke-point of the channel For this trek, each truck was manned by three could sleep in an RV that accompanied the That way, the trucks could drive continuously But again, these races are easy logistically ones known as flyaway races. Just like with the European races the majority them but from time to time races are scheduled apart. These back to back flyaway races are the most 1 season. On Sunday April 8th, 2018 the Bahrain Grand days later, the following weekend, the Chinese Over 4,000 miles separated those two racetracks came down on Sunday night in Bahrain and had Even worse, Shanghai is five hours ahead of to do the work but in reality, the planning Around January 2018, three months before the teams packed up five sets of shipping containers. Each of these sets held their sea kits carrying utensils, and some elements of their garages. They send these bulkier and less expensive less expensive than sending them by plane. The number of containers per team varies as more but in general each team takes about Of course ocean shipping is slower, but since the right place at the right time. That January shipment sent the first five Australia; Sakhir, Bahrain; Shanghai, China; Then, as each race was completed its kit was destination without a kit--the Australian Russia, the Chinese one to Japan, the Azerbaijani one to Mexico, and then towards the end of to send kits to, they're sent back to the At the racetrack, the Formula 1 logistics the race itself but for the Bahrain to China the race. That's when each team's logistics manager in which order and into which containers their Once that was completed there was really not On Sunday morning, before the race even started, Many of the spare parts can't be used during an engine during the Grand Prix--so they're their containers. Not much happened during the race itself but up began. The cars, the most important pieces of equipment, be sure no illegal modifications were made for packing. All the equipment that the teams wanted at priority pallets. Together each team's priority pallets filled As soon as these were packed they were driven the race ended to be prepared for an early As that plane took off the final pallets were Only about six to eight hours after the drop up and on their way to the airport. By midday Monday, all six of the Boeing 747's were in the air. These planes were chartered by Formula 1 but Also on Monday all the staff started their Many of the lower level staff just flew on higher profile drivers flew private between After nine hours in the air the first plane local time. The freight was unloaded and brought to customs. By midnight, all the priority freight was Overnight, logistics workers arranged the paddocks. No team is allowed to touch their freight both for fairness purposes and safety to assure pallets are being unloaded and moved. By Tuesday morning, it's game on for the At this point each team had their three priority In their priority pallets teams didn't put they put the things they needed to assemble That includes the wall paneling, the core of the IT and communications equipment. By Tuesday evening that build was done and to the teams as the non-priority pallets were Early Wednesday morning around 6am the teams the final assembly of the garage. Only after about four hours, by late morning, All in all, ten Formula 1 teams successfully miles, and reassembled their paddocks in 58 Thanks to careful planning and practiced workers, year without a hitch. Earlier in the video I mentioned how the short transfer is the hardest race transfer in Europe brought me out to the Spielberg Formula 1 Crew 2. This game is open world meaning they actually and race through all of it not only in cars Even as someone who doesn't play video games an accurate recreation of the actual racing If you think you might be interested in playing where you can check it out. Thanks to the support of the Crew 2 and Ubisoft, another Wendover video out next week.