Hey guys! So I am feeling sentimental today Yes, it's been five years since I started Lavendaire. And as the fifth anniversary celebration, the first video that I ever posted on Lavendaire, &quot;How to Stop Caring About What Others Think of You&quot;, and kind of give my updates on my new thoughts The reason I chose that topic as the first one because it's a key foundational step to You have to let go and stop caring about simply because if you are going to live your dream life, you have to live for yourself and not others, and that was a huge lesson that I had to learn And that's why it was so important for me I had so many great points in the first video, So how do you stop caring about Well, #1: Learn not to take anything personally. I learned this from the book &quot;The Four Agreements&quot;. The point is: If you don't take anything personally, then you are immune and nothing and which brings me to #2: Love yourself. You have to first and foremost love, embrace because you don't need other people You should already know how wonderful and It should come from within and that inner and it's what kind of makes a statement. #3 is to: Stop being paranoid. Stop being paranoid. We think that we're so important that people and talking about us, when in reality, most of the time, other people are too busy worrying about themselves and their own lives to even let you cross their mind. #4: Don't waste your time and energy trying People already have an idea of what and so they only hear what they want to hear. And everything else is subconsciously filtered out, so it's a waste of time and energy to try one person's thought about you, when you already have a set of people who Honestly, when I look back at that video, I was a little awkward and shy in front of the camera. And I was recording in my tiny bedroom I always had to have artificial lighting. But the content was good. Those points are still so valid, and it's so concise and simple that I'm like, I've wanted to remake this video and but I feel like I already did a pretty good job. To be honest, the core lessons are the same, but now I can speak to the topic with more depth Five years ago, when I created this video it was because I was finding my way instead of living out the dream that my family wanted me to do certain things, my peers. Society kind of pushes you in a certain direction and I wanted to go outside of that direction, so I really had to learn to be strong and which is why I had to learn to shed all of that judgment. Also, at the time I made this video, I was doing a lot My channel was really small, I had zero credibility, and I felt like everyone was judging me for I was a broke artist, basically. And me coming from a background of going to where all my peers were getting high-paying I had to learn to not care about what they thought of me taking this really random broke route of being an artist. So I had to learn that. Fast-forward, here we are five years later, where I am so grateful that I took that choice I created Lavendaire, it's amazing, I have you guys here, I'm so happy and grateful to be here. And you know what? When you've become successful yourself, of course, everyone around me now supports me But it came at a point where I didn't need it anymore, because in the beginning you have to be the one And you get everyone else's support when and you don't really need their support, but anyway - I'm lucky now that I've grown, I have the support and I've overcome that hump of not caring about what this inner circle thinks or how people judge me. And now, where I am in my journey, I am still learning this lesson of how to stop caring But it's change in that now, it is me vs. the internet, because when you put yourself out there online, everybody's criticisms and judgment just magnifies - and that is something that, in the past few years, I've just experienced so much criticism, judgment, and I'm still learning to not try to defend myself If they have a wrong impression of me or I have to learn to let it go, rather than feel and defend myself and explain myself. I'm sure you guys have seen mean comments It's not really the mean ones that hurt. But the ones that hurt are the ones that have you kind of agree with what they're saying, and it hurts. Let me explain, for example: The comments and criticisms that hurt &quot;You're not a real minimalist. How can you call yourself a minimalist if or &quot;You're so wasteful. How can you make this video about reducing waste when you have these lights in the background Basically, in areas that you care about and you're like, &quot;No, no, I do care! Let me explain myself!&quot; And at the end of the day, it doesn't matter People are going to judge you no matter what. And with the internet, it's just amplified. I'll get thousands of the same types of comments, I can't answer every one, and it's pointless to. And what I've learned is: People on the internet They expect you to be perfect, and if you're not perfect, And so they comment and criticize because why are you not perfect? And hearing these comments and criticisms, I realize that the reason why they hurt is You're not good enough. And it hurts to hear that you're not good enough because you and I both know that, even in our self talk, we can get into that negative space where And it hurts even more when other people tell And I realized, this is kind of the same thing don't believe in your dreams, when they don't They're telling you: You're not good enough. You can't go for that dream What it really is, is: They're projecting their fear on you They don't want you to fail and get hurt. And from these comments that I get - but some of them actually come with good intentions But it comes off in a way that says and nobody needs to hear that. Nobody needs to hear that you're not good enough. And that's why it's so important to learn to shield yourself from other people's opinions because people are always going to have an opinion. People are always going to criticize, It's only natural, and at the end of the day, what I've learned - what I'm still learning The only thing that matters is what you think of yourself. That's that. If you approve of yourself, if you think you're doing okay, if you live aligned to your own values and then you're good. The only time you need to change is when you It's not what other people are telling you, There is a part of us that wants to people-please. There's a part of us that wants everyone to like us. It's a part of being human because you want And also, depending on your childhood, if you had a childhood where you had a lack then you're going to want to seek that love, by being a people-pleaser and saying yes to everybody. But to live for yourself means to shed that need and to give yourself all the love that you need so that you don't seek it from people outside of yourself. And if you can truly give yourself all the love and approval and acceptance that you need, then it doesn't matter what other people say because like I said, it only matters what I think that is one of the biggest breakthroughs to learn to not live in what other people want for you and what other people are telling you you should do, but to actually listen to yourself and live Honestly if I listened to all of the criticisms I would probably change my hair color to whatever I would be a perfect minimalist which - Or I would be a perfect zero waste person, I would be a perfect vegan, which I'm not as well, even though in these areas, But nobody's perfect. I'm not perfect, for sure. And what I've learned from all of this is to strive for progress, not perfection. And recognize everyone's in a different point Some people are further along than others. Respect everyone and their journeys. Do not judge anyone because their story is and you don't know all the circumstances. And celebrate each other because we're all We only hurt each other when we judge each And what we really all need is more love for ourselves and from the people around us. Most importantly is to understand that nobody's perfect and what you want to do is not feel bad for but embrace your imperfection, embrace where love and accept yourself where you are. And you can still love yourself and want to be better. There's nothing wrong with that. And next time you recognize that voice that's whether it's coming from your family, your peers, remind yourself that you are good enough. You are good enough where you are. You're amazing as you are right now in your As long as you're doing the best that you that's all that matters. And now I want to end with this quote that &quot;There's only two people in the world you your 5 year old self and your 80 year old self.&quot; Think about that, journal on it, and love yourself. That's that. Who cares about what other people are thinking. People see the world through their own filter So the best you can do is not let it hurt you, Let it be, and live your best life. Alright, love you guys so much. I hope you liked this video. Happy 5th birthday to Lavendaire. I hope you're subscribed! Comment below on your favorite video of Lavendaire, And I will see you guys next time. Bye!