Hello, welcome to our channel, please stay with us until the end, we read all your comments and thank you all for sending congratulatory messages for Nimat, we hope you will achieve whatever you wish for. Hello, hello, welcome . ? Thank you, come in, how are you? Thank you , how are the children? Yes, thanks to God, they are good. We slept very little last night, because we have no experience and no one helps us. The children cried a lot. Am I allowed to talk to the viewers? Yes, relax, it's better if I speak outside, so that Fatima doesn't find out. I greet you, dear friends. Thank you, dear friends, for writing in the comments and remembering this important day, as many friends did. Today is my and Fatima's wedding anniversary. I am very happy that you remembered this day . I am going to buy a gift for Fatima on the occasion of this important day and thank her for all the hard work she has done for me and the children. from Dear friends, I invite you to accompany me. It's better to go inside . Thank you , Fatima. The cameraman wants to come in. Hello, the neighbors are having a wedding party. Please wash this part. Go inside to wash . Hug Arvin, I will pour tea, I have to go. Why do I go to the street ? I have a date with one of my friends ok just come early I didn't sleep last night I need your help Avin looks like Nasib it is quiet who does Arvin look like? It is similar to Hojjat, does my heart hurt, should I pour like before? Don't you need anything? Bring the napkin, good luck. Goodbye . Do you think you understand? no hello hello welcome can i help you Please give me this flower. They are all new and beautiful. Which flower sells more? These flowers sell well, but these two bouquets sell the most. Thank you, welcome. Hello , welcome. I decided to buy gold for my wife on the occasion of my wedding anniversary, but I didn't have enough money. Please give me a beautiful watch. Can you take any time you want from these parts ? Yes, did you write the price here? Yes, I want to buy a set of watches. Here are the two. Do you need a box? yes please select the box later i will bring you to shorten the watch band thank you good luck were you asleep? What occasion are these flowers for? With love, thank you, guess what day is today, our wedding anniversary, congratulations , thank you , Mr. Nemat, congratulations, thank you , thank you, I didn't buy a gift , you are giving me the greatest gift by taking care of the children and trying to calm me down. Did you know that Today is our wedding anniversary?!! Friends, he posted on WhatsApp and congratulated me on my wedding anniversary. He thought that I would forget this day. Thank you. I bought two sets of watches. How are you, my dear? Did you think I forgot? No, did you know? what is Do you have any gifts? Should I give a mobile phone as a gift? Do we have coal? Yes, we have some time. I have to shorten the watch strap. Today I have to go and pick up the land so that there is no problem. When should we start building the house? We have to start soon, we don't have much time. Please make some milk powder for Arvin. Where is the bottle? Should I change the milk? Yes, wait, my dear, there are leaves on the tree in the yard again, it's not a problem, because all the leaves must be removed from the tree in autumn, is that enough? Yes, the number of Sikhs is not many. We enjoyed life during this period without stress and discomfort. I hope that one day everyone will come to the conclusion that living in peace is the right of everyone . The stove didn't turn on. Now I'm preparing the coal. Now it's Avin's turn. Did you bring the spoon? Yes, I brought it, come and sit I think it is better to go to Nasib's house tonight, because he is upset with us, there is no need to go, Nasib is a good man, it is better to go to see them tonight, after dinner . I disagree , why? We have to distance ourselves from everyone. Don't you agree that we should go? No, we shouldn't go, so I will go and take over the land and determine the dimensions of the land so that no one can claim ownership of the land. If you need anything, call me . The real estate consultant asks the land owner to come here to deliver the land to the buyer. The real estate consultant tells Nemat that they should wait for a while for the land owner to come. Nemat asks the real estate consultant to return to the owner. Zemin called to come early, because he doesn't want to His wife will be alone for a long time. The real estate agent explains to Nemat that it will take about 10 minutes for the owner of the land to come . The real estate asks the owner of the land to go together and hand over the land to the buyer. The length of the land is 22 meters and its width is 12 meters, which must be specified precisely. The width of the alley must also be specified because it is possible to take possession of the land for the construction of the alley. Be in dimensions and The size of the land and alley is not a problem and the real estate consultant congratulated Nemat for buying this land. After confirming the land size and to complete the transaction, Nemat should register the checks in the name of the land owner. The real estate consultant handed over the land documents to Nemat and He said that he can start building the house from tomorrow. We thank you, dear friends, for accompanying us until the end, please leave us a comment, hoping to see you again.