Over time some of the BIGGEST Roblox games at 6 of these games, and stay tuned to see if a Roblox game which has over 363 MILLION VISITS, many people play it anymore... What happened? ago to 2008 when the owner Wsly, joined Roblox. but not the one you're thinking of. Wsly and his in 2008. The reason they made so much was because million visits, and the second has over 16 million use all their knowledge to make a third one. Not forever... In 2015 after being on the platform for players play through different obstacles while and stop players from completing the obby. And it off well, but since this was their most polished out and gained popularity due to how unique it was ideas and concepts, fans kept coming back. Wsly for over 16 years with each game performing out and become forgotten. This was a major project all their years of hard work was fading away... From Deathrun die out and start to become forgotten? over time a lot of people got bored and moved on, over again. Also, the updates were getting slower started to get forgotten... But it doesn't end here... explained that all of the developers including games, so they just can't put much time into updated, which is why it's being forgotten. If you crazier... Because we're talking about Flicker, it kind of died out and many people have forgotten co-owner, Croire, who joined Roblox back in 2013, Croire made a bunch of maps and showcases, continue to do this for the next year or so and traction. They all got a few hundred visits. As joined Roblox all the way back in 2012 and by this or much of anything at all. By this point both of years with not much to show for it, it seems like but 2018 would change their lives forever... After a game in which players are put into a map and the lights will go out and someone random job to try and stop the murderer. A pretty unique to gain some traction. In a few years, it was to explode, it started going viral on YouTube even hitting a high of over 40K players. After their game was viral and only growing bigger every momentum. Every year they started losing thousands not many YouTubers were playing it anymore, went from 10K's of players to now a few thousand, have been updating it here and there, but this even with updates for the most part the concept people probably got bored and moved on. To be fair well as it used to, and a ton of people completely the same can't be said for our next game... Because 270 MILLION visits, but has been dying out and made it this far please subscribe, these videos Anyways, to understand we have to rewind a couple is really weird... This is the owner, Sputil, who created in March of 2017, 1 month earlier. This but even then Sputil doesn't have much history. who joined Roblox back in 2016. For the first year none of which took off. But 2017 would change created RoBeats a music rythm and challenge game. song ranges in difficulty. Robeats launched at so giving people a Roblox alternative worked out and features from other similar games so it the game garnered over 5 MILLION visits and done it, but they were only getting started... Over features and the game kept growing and growing. and constantly had thousands of people playing. projects to having one of the biggest Roblox games start slowly dying out and becoming forgotten... the concept, even though there were new songs for and over again. But a lot of people also started the developers were adding. Over time people just averaging thousands to now a few hundred. People people completely FORGOT about it. A sad ending talking about Zombie Rush, a game which has over forgotten... What happened? Well to understand we Beacon, who joined Roblox all the way back Rush in 2013 as well, but it didn't immediately a while. Zombie rush is a game in which players progressively harder. Eventually, after putting every year just growing bigger and bigger. After one of them blow up. And this would continue for and millions of visits. In 2 years the game would the game would just keep growing. Just a few thousands of players every day, but it's been Now averaging around 150 players a day... What to them not being updated anymore, but in this consistently. The main reason seems to be just the platform for now over 11 YEARS, so obviously and overall forget about it... This game is slowly a fanbase that supports it, it is sad to see crazy story just like our next game... Because we're over 854 MILLION visits, but it has become slowly who joined Roblox all the way back in 2009. Right projects with one of their first being Crimson and sadly that was the story for most of their kept launching game after game and kept working After being on the platform for over 4 years have much to show for it. It seemed like failure change his life forever... Because his next project simulating real life. It was based on the popular RoSims. In the game you can get a job, customize game started to take off, it was pretty unique and you also have to keep in mind that since it was stood out. In just 2 years the game had over 3 after constant failure he had a viral game, but adding more and more updates, and kept improving and the game just kept getting bigger year after in 10 YEARS... Despite this success though, over few years ago it was still averaging 5000-10,000 15,000 players, to now getting a few hundred have forgotten about this game and it doesn't get it's due to the games age. Naturally with any game it and move on. Sadly overtime this game is just the dev can do to stop it. To be fair though they years... But our next story is the biggest game yet talking about Zombie Attack, a game which has FORGOTTEN... This is the owner, rip_indra, who is a crazy developer because he's worked on some his first breakthroughs was Dragon Ball Final But he was just getting started, and he would go made... He is a co-owner and creator of Elemental VISITS. He's created Knife Simulator with over over 90 MILLION visits, and much more. And these So in 2018 he used all his experience to launch as many zombie rounds as you can, with each round as boss fights. And since he was already a popular launch. Just in a month it was averaging over This would continue over the next few years and bigger, now sitting at over 1 BILLION visits... But the game and people started to forget about it. for this is pretty insane... just after 1 year the Shockingly this new project would become one of Blox Fruits, the third biggest Roblox game ever is one of the owners. So the game was updating also overtime the concept seemed to get stale around 10K players to now around 1000 every and have announced they are working on a sequel Roblox games get forgotten, sometimes due to them If you want to see more Roblox stories check