- [Ross] What up, Shane? - [Shane] How you doing, chef? Good afternoon. - [Ross] How big are the fish today? - [Shane] It's a good size one. (upbeat music) - Pretty nice size. Still a little bit of rigor. We buy a lot of mackerel. - So the mackerel toast is a but takes four or five days - And the mackerel at the best mackerel I've ever had. You know, mackerel is probably you know, even for the chefs too, just because they're small. - But we find that the are able to sustain the smoke Such a simple dish that, you know, there's really no place to hide. We're not putting a bunch It's all about the, you know, (upbeat music continues) There we go. Let's call it there. - We like to process just to keep the freshness of it. So what he's gonna do is After he is done fileting, and then we'll start our curing process, which is a sugar and salt mixture. And then we just serve it with our, you know, Secret Sister country bread, a couple Guindilla peppers, some lemon. That's all you need. - We couldn't open Mabel's without having opened the bakery first. The schedule over at is they start at 3:00 in the morning, they finish baking around noon, they bring the bread to Mabel's. Neale is about to shape This is the country loaf. This is the first step in that we serve at Mabel's. It gets served on a nice thick, - We obviously do all of our bread here, and we sell it at the bakery, and then we use it for But what's cool about the mackerel, and what I think is special with it too, it's one of the places that fresh and not toasted. And so it has to be made day of, and that's really what I don't think it would be the same product if it was on, you know, grilled bread. - So, three days before the that's when the first ferment starts. Five days before the fish that's when the processing - Nacho's just finished up a batch, fileted them and v-cut them. V-cut just removes the makes it a little easier so he's going to cure them lightly. What we have in this little shaker is equal parts salt and sugar. And then we're gonna let these hang out for a full 24 hours in the walk-in. The walk-in's going to The salt's gonna pull moisture out. That cool air is gonna creating a nice pellicle and that's crucial to (upbeat music continues) - So all this bread gets and then it cold-proofs and then we bake it from So we're just scoring it So, because of our space, too, all of our bread is We don't have a loader or anything, so it gets a little tricky sometimes, but we have figured it out. And then we double steam it. - 24 hours later, so we've and it gives the smoke which gives it, like, a nice color. But also, obviously, flavor These will be in the Single box. We got about three levels in here. We use a soft wood, typically fruit. Right now we're using applewood. So we put that in there, it's got a timer on it, an hour later, we'll (upbeat music continues) - [Neale] So all of our bread is gonna get bagged and ready for Mabel's. So when I think about sourdough, and the loaf of bread that I really like, I want color on it. I want a good, deep crust and I want it to be soft - Bread delivery usually right around, like, 12:30. Neale, after her shift, Bread stays uncut until closer to service. So we'll just put that away get that process going. We found the best mussel They're super plump and they have, like, a nice little, like, It's really aesthetically pleasing. But they're larger and Just have that like real but still remaining tender. (upbeat music continues) - Dan and Ross had worked before we came over here, and Dan developed that mussel dish, and it's been on the menu since day one. - Yeah, we're gonna (upbeat music) Now they'll probably steam until they're fully open. We'll save the liquor, and that will be incorporated - The local fisheries here in San Diego were historically really strong, and now it's becoming to be a fisherman in San Diego. So we really wanted to try to do our part to support the industry (upbeat music continues) One of the things that we care about here is making sure that we're not manipulating it too much so that you can still really understand that what you are eating here is extremely fresh, delicious fish. - [Dan] Help these guys cool off. After that we will debeard 'em, and then we'll marinate it. (upbeat music continues) - What's up chef? - Got your prawns here. So these are soft-shell prawns. So these guys are the ones And then these guys here, Our typical cycle's about 15 weeks. These guys are probably so they're about seven And our typical big boys - Steve was talking to him and ages that he sells, and this one definitely These are the popcorn king prawns, and we just dredge 'em and fry them whole. Dan and I loved eating the heads of prawns and this way it was like you and think it was something new and our guests here at the restaurant. (lively music) We'll lightly season. We'll hit this with a some fresh lime juice, and then right before some garlic chives. (lively music continues) There it is. Now our guy Nacho is starting the next process on the mussels. They've been steamed, cooled slightly. And so what he is doing now, is kind of shucking 'em out of the shell and de-bearding them. We find that debearding them they come out a little cleaner, and there's nothing left residing in the flesh of the mussel themself. So what we're gonna marinate they've been cooked, debearded. And here we have the finish escabeche. It is a combination of, like, a smoked paprika and orange That's cooked on low to kind of pull out the natural oils from everything. And then on the bottom is the vinegar and cooking liquid, or from the cooking process. These are gonna sit for but we like to go 48, optimal. All right, it's been Got a small little batch We do it in small batches, one, so these things can get full smoke. And what we're looking which we have here, all because we allow them So these are smoked perfectly. - So yeah, the mackerel's and now we're just gonna clean 'em up. Take a little bit of bloodline and then drop it into our aromatic oil, and nestle 'em in there. (upbeat music) - So for our mussels, grilled sourdough, it comes straight off the grill, rub it with some raw garlic. The camera doesn't lie. I mean, they were nice, they were plump, but After they spent the time in the marinade, they just kind of, like, and they just plump up (upbeat music continues) Steve brought us these which are definitely a specialty. You know, the way he harvests them, they're not always available. Sometimes he needs to let 'em grow. So Chef Dan and I, pre-service, we're just gonna mess around with these, try a couple concepts that we have. Just gonna season 'em with before they hit the grill. We got this, like, little so we want that char and So we're gonna put those not let 'em sit too long. The popcorns we did, the perfect kind of, to have on our menu. But here, you get that added We're always looking to excite our cooks and ourselves, You know, but it's really cool when our favorite purveyors bring us something a little different. You don't get prawns in when you order frozen prawns So this is super special and not many people get to work with this. I like to hit 'em directly because as they relax, they're and it's gonna be part of the shrimp. I'm gonna hand 'em off to Chef Dan. - So we'll probably try We'll just do 'em as-is so And then I made this, a spicy that we'll try it with. A little fennel pollen. Sea salt. - To me, the most important is that you can trust what we're doing, that we're using quality ingredients, and it's still fun and approachable, and everybody feels welcome here. (upbeat music continues) - What do you think? Menu ready? - I don't think anyone would be mad at it. - Like, the shell's there, in such a great way that eating all of it is definitely accessible. Even for the more timid diner, I think they're gonna be timid until they take that first bite. All right, that was fun. Service time. (upbeat music continues) - If you think about the mackerel toast, which is a super simple dish - just bread, fish, Guindilla that's something that takes It starts with Shane We process it, we cure it, we smoke it, we then marinate it, and then five days later it The bread starts three days before it can make it to the plate with the initial sourdough ferment. Sounds simple and it's not. Sometimes I think people even - And that's basically it. The dish, fresh country It's been cured, smoked, extra virgin olive oil, a little crunchy sea salt, and a lemon. (funky music) - The idea for Mabel's, we wanted to create a neighborhood space. We wanted to create really good food in this place I've lived in for 15 years. We wanted to pay homage to a that you can find in Spain and Portugal where you can get a or a full meal, and or you can be fast about it. You can sit outside, you can I think San Diego is seeing a renaissance, for sure, of homegrown. We very recently got a direct-to-market fisherman's only, like, three years ago. (funky music continues) One thing I think is really cool is there's lots of us that grew up here that are now able to put and have come back from other markets to open restaurants here. (funky music)