The following content is Commons license. Your support will help MIT offer high quality educational To make a donation, or view hundreds of MIT courses, visit ocw.mit.edu. PROFESSOR: OK. So today's lecture will be on So counting, I guess, is conceptually, but it's a to be pretty tricky. The reason we're going to talk a lot of probability problems reduces to successfully counting various sets. So we're going to see the basic, one can use to count situations. So in contrast to previous introduce any significant probabilistic nature. We're just going to use the already know. And we're going to apply them also some counting involved. Now, today we're going surface of this subject. There's a whole field of combinatorics who are people who lives counting more and We were not going to get complexity of the field, but that allow us to address encounters in most common So the basic idea, the basic we've already discussed. So counting methods apply in probabilistic experiments with and where every outcome-- every possible outcome-- has the same probability So we have our sample space, discrete points in there. And the cardinality of the set in particular, we assume that likely, which means that every has the same probability And then we are interested in a call it A. And that of a number of elements. Let the cardinality of that And then to find the probability we need to do is to add the individual elements. There's little n elements, and over capital N. And So this means that to solve that we need to be able to do capital N and to figure out Now, if somebody gives you a set and gives you another set, easy to count there element. You just count how much But sometimes the sets are implicit way, and we may have to There's various tricks that are involved in counting properly. And the most common when you consider a set of the construction of those sequential process. So think of a probabilistic number of stages, and in each number of possible choices The overall experiment consists the stages to the end. And the number of points in the final outcomes there can be in So in this picture we have an first stage we have In the second stage, no matter stage, the way this is drawn No matter whether we ended up three choices in the And then there's a third stage no matter what happened in the stage we're going to have So how many leaves are there That's simple. It's just the product of The number of possible leaves times 3 times 2. Number of choices at each stage that gives us the number So this is the general rule, the going to use over and over. So let's apply it to some very How many license plates can you use three letters and then At least if you're dealing with have 26 choices for Then you have 26 choices And then 26 choices for And then we start the digits. We have 10 choices for the first the second digit, 10 choices for the last one. Let's make it a little more we're interested in license repeated and no digit So you have to use different How many license plates OK, let's choose the and we have 26 choices. Now, I'm ready to choose my choices do I have? I have 25, because I already I have the 25 remaining letters For the next letter, Well, I used up two of only have 24 available. And then we start with the first digit, 9 choices for the the last one. All right. So, now, let's bring some You are given a set that you're supposed to take put them in a sequence. That is to order them. Any possible ordering of those permutation. So for example, if we have the permutation is the That's one possible And there's lots of possible question is how many OK, let's think about building one at a time. Which of these elements goes How many choices for the number first slot or the elements? Well, we can choose any one of have n choices. Let's say this element goes element, we're left with n minus pick any one of these and bring So here we have n choices, here minus 1 choices, then how have n minus 2 choices. And you go down until the end. What happens at this point pick the last element? Well, you've used n minus of left in your bag. You're forced to use that one. So the last stage, you're going So, basically, the number of product of all integers from one up to n. And there's a symbol that we called n factorial. So n factorial is the number of The number of ways that you can given to you. Now, a different equation. We have n elements. Let's say the elements And it's a set. And we want to create How many possible subsets So speaking of subsets means elements and deciding whether subsets or not. For example, I could choose putting it in, 3 I'm not putting it, and so on. So that's how you You look at each one of the going to put it in the subset, So think of these as consisting At each stage you look at make a binary decision. Do I put it in the So therefore, how many Well, I have two choices Am I going to put in I have two choices for the For each one of the elements, So the overall number of choices So, conclusion-- the number of subsets, often n So in particular, if we take n our answer makes sense. If we have n equal to one, how So we're dealing with What are the subsets? One subset is this one. Do we have other subsets Yes, we have the empty set. That's the second one. These are the two possible this particular set. So 2 subsets when n is equal to All right. OK, so having gone so far, we So we are given a die to roll it 6 times. OK, let's make some assumptions Let's assume that the rolls are die is also fair. So this means that the outcome of the die rolls-- for example, so we have 6 rolls, could be 3,3,1,6,5. So that's one possible What's the probability There's probability 1/6 that happens, 1/6 that this So the probability that is 1/6 to the sixth. What did I use to come I used independence, so I the first roll gives me a 2, second roll gives me And then I used the assumption the probability of 2 is is 1/6, and so on. So if I were to spell it out, get the 2 in the first roll, the second roll, times the 5 in the last roll. So by independence, I can And because the die is fair, 1/6 to the sixth. And so the same calculation numbers I would put in here. So all possible outcomes Let's start with this. So since all possible outcomes answer to a probability with some particular event, so give different numbers. That's our event A. And our capital omega. We know that the answer is going the set A, divided by the So let's deal with the How many elements are there How many possible outcomes roll a dice 6 times? You have 6 choices for You have 6 choices for the So the overall number to be 6 to the sixth. So number of elements in to the sixth power. And I guess this checks We have 6 to the sixth outcomes, much probability, probability is equal to one. Right? So the probability of an how many possible outcomes All right. So how about the numerator? We are interested in outcomes get are all different. So what is an outcome in which So the die has 6 faces. We roll it 6 times. We're going to get 6 This means that we're going to numbers, but they can appear So an outcome that makes this numbers from 1 to 6, some arbitrary order. So the possible outcomes that the permutations of the One possible outcome that makes it would be this. Here we have 6 possible numbers, this kind in which none repeated would also do. So number of outcomes that make number of permutations So it's 6 factorial. And so the final answer is divided by 6 to the sixth. All right, so that's a typical of this kind. We know how to count For example, here we knew how to used our knowledge to count the we need to deal with. So now let's get to a slightly We're given once more a We already know how many subsets we would be interested in elements in them. So we start with our big set want to construct a subset Out of those n I'm and put them in there. In how many ways More concrete way of thinking you have n people in some group committee by picking people from to form a committee Where k is a given number. For example, a 5 person How many 5 person committees starting with 100 people? So that's what we How many k element subsets We don't yet know the answer, And the name is going to be this we read as n choose k. Out of n elements, we want OK. That may be a little tricky. So what we're going to do is somewhat easier problem, in how many ways can I pick k them in a particular order? So how many possible ordered of k people? By ordered, I mean that we take this is the first person That's the second person That's the third person in So in how many ways Out of these n, we want to them in slots. One after the other. So this is pretty much like the solved just a little earlier. So we have n choices for who the community. We can pick anyone and have Then I'm going to choose person in the committee. I've used up 1 person. So I'm going to have n And now, at this stage I've used minus 2 choices here. And this keeps going on. Well, what is going to Is it's n minus k? Well, not really. I'm starting subtracting numbers so by the end I will have So that's how many choices I So this is the number the product of these numbers ways that I can create ordered out of the n that Now, you can do a little bit of expression here is the same Why is this? This factorial has all the This factorial has all up to n minus k. So you get cancellations. And what's left is all the next number after here, which So the number of possible ways is n factorial divided by Now, a different way that I instead of picking the people choose my k people who are going and then put them in order. And tell them out of these k, second, you are the third. Starting with this k ways can I order them? That's the number Starting with a set with k I put them in a specific How many specific orders That's basically the question. In how many ways can people and arrange them. So the number of ways this step is k factorial. So in how many ways can I elements, go through this sorted list with k elements? By the rule that-- when we have stages, the total choices we had in the first we had in the second stage. The number of ways that this times that. This is a different way that And the number of possible No matter which way we carry out we have the possible ways of n that we started with. So the final answer that we get either this, or this Both are equally valid ways of us the same answer. So we get this equality here. So these two expressions ways of constructing ordered with n people initially. And now that we have this factorial to the denominator. And that tells us what k, is going to be. So this formula-- it's written going to see it a zillion the end of the semester-- they are called the binomial And they tell us the number of create a k element subset, set that has n elements. It's always good to do a sanity considering extreme cases. So let's take the case where What's the right answer How many n elements subsets of an element set? Well, your subset needs You don't have any choices. There's only one choice. It's the set itself. So the answer should That's the number of n element with n elements. Let's see if the formula gives We have n factorial divided by n factorial. And then n minus k So if our formula is correct, we And what's the way to Well, it depends what kind give to this symbol? How do we define I guess in some ways We're going to define it this formula right. So the definition that we will have 0 factorial, it's going So let's check that this is extreme case. If we let k equal to 0, what It gives us, again, n factorial factorial times n factorial. According to our convention, So there is one subset of our has zero elements. Which subset is it? It's the empty set. So the empty set is the single started with that happens to So the formula checks in this So we're comfortable using it. Now these factorials and these algebraic objects. There's lots of beautiful which you can prove using induction and having all over the place. But it's really messy. Sometimes you can bypass those and using your understanding coefficients stand for. So here's a typical example. What is the sum of those I fix n, and sum over So if you're an algebra genius, this expression here, plug it in algebra furiously. And half an hour later, you But now let's try What does this really do? What does that formula count? We're considering k That's this number. And we're considering the number for different choices of k. The first term in this sum subsets we have. The next term in this sum counts subsets we have. The next term counts how many So in the end, what We've counted the total We've considered all possible We've counted the number We've considered all The overall count is total number of subsets. And we know what this is. A couple of slides ago, we equal to 2 to the n. So, nice, clean and simple once you give an interpretation algebraic expression that you All right. So let's move again to sort of binomial coefficients are So here's the setting-- n independent coin tosses, probability, P, of resulting So this is our probabilistic Suppose we do 6 tosses. What's the probability that we of outcomes? Because of independence, we So it's going to be the toss results in heads, times second toss results in tails, third one results in tails, times probability of heads, which is just P to the fourth So that's the probability of How about a different If I had 4 tails and 2 heads, let's say if we considered would the answer be different? We would still have P, times P, minus P), times (1 minus P). We would get again, So what you observe from just generally, the probability sequence of heads and tails is number of heads. So here we had 4 heads. So there's P to the And then (1 minus P) to the So every k head sequence-- every outcome in which we have probability, which is going to the (n minus k). This is the probability of any exactly k heads. So that's the probability sequence with k heads. So now let's ask the question, my experiment results in exactly arbitrary order? So the heads could So there's a number that this can happen. What's the overall probability So the probability of an event probabilities of all the the event can occur. So it's the sum of the outcomes that make The different ways that we can of different sequences that We just figured out that any has this probability. So to do this summation, we just probability of each individual many terms we have So what we're left to do now head sequences are there. How many outcomes are there in OK. So what are the ways that I can with k heads? I can take my n slots the different tosses. I'm interested in particular have exactly k heads. So what I need to do is to heads to them. So to specify a sequence that same thing as drawing this are the k slots that happened So I need to choose out of those assign them heads. In how many ways can I Well, it's the question of and choosing k slots out So the number of k head number of k element subsets of started with, which are We know what that number is. We counted, before, the number with a set with n elements. And we gave a symbol to that thing, n choose k. So this is the final answer So these are the so-called And they gave us the numbers of heads starting with tossed a number of times. This formula is correct, of of k, meaning its correct for If k is bigger than n, what's If k is bigger than n, there's that probability is, So these probabilities only that are possible, given And now a question similar the previous slide. If I write down this even worse algebra than the one what do you think this number It should be 1 because this of obtaining k heads. When we do the summation, what considering the probability of of 1 head, plus the probability the probability of n heads. We've exhausted all the experiment. So the overall probability, possibilities, must So that's yet another beautiful evaluates into something And if you tried to prove this course, you would have to So now armed with the binomial harder problems. So let's take the same We flip a coin independently So these 10 tosses We flip it 10 times. We don't see the result, but you know, there were exactly tosses that you had. OK? So a certain event happened. And now you're asked to find event, which is that the first Let's call that event A. OK. So are we in the setting uniform probability laws? When we toss a coin multiple outcomes are equally likely? All sequences are That's the case if you that all sequences are But if your coin is not fair, going to have a different If your coin is biased towards going to be more likely. So we're not quite in Our overall sample space, omega, likely elements. Do we care about that? Not necessarily. All the action now happens told has occurred. So we have our big sample Elements of that sample space We are told that a certain And inside that event B, we're probability that A has Now here's the lucky thing, outcomes are equally likely. The outcomes inside B are the have exactly 3 heads. Every 3-head sequence has So the elements of likely with each other. Once we condition on the event happens to the probabilities inside here? Well, conditional probability as the unconditional ones. The elements of B were equally they're equally likely once we So to do with this problem, we this smaller universe and think in that little universe. In that little universe, B are equally likely. So to find the probability of only need to count the the cardinality of A. Number of outcomes in B-- in how many ways can we get That's the number we considered it's 10 choose 3. This is the number of when you have 10 tosses. Now let's look at the event A. 2 tosses where heads, but we're universe B. Given that B does A have in there? In how many ways can A happen If you're told that the sorry. So out of the outcomes in B that start with heads/heads? Well, if it starts with uncertainty is the location So we started with heads/heads, have three heads, the question going to be. It has eight possibilities. So slot 1 is heads, slot 2 is anywhere else. So there's 8 possibilities head is going to be. OK. So what we have counted here is intersection B, which is out of of them make A happen, divided that gives us the answer, which 3, divided by 8. And I should probably redraw a they have here. The set A is not necessarily have stuff outside B. So the are heads can happen with a also happen with a different But once we are transported to count is just this part of compare it with the total number B. Did I write it the Yes. So this is 8 over 10 choose 3. OK. So we're going to close with a OK. This business of n choose k has set and picking a subset Another way of thinking of that set with n elements and you which means that there's n Picking a subset is the same as two pieces. Now let's generalize this partitions in general. Somebody gives you a set Somebody gives you also n1, n2, n3, let's say, numbers add up to n. And you're asked to partition where each one of the subsets cardinality. So you're asking to cut it into having the prescribed In how many ways can we n choose k was the answer when what's the answer For a concrete example of a card deck and you deal, as in each one of the players. Assuming that the dealing is shuffled deck of cards, every cards into four hands, that is should be equally likely. So we take the 52 cards and we 13, 13, 13, and 13. And we assume that all possible possible ways of dealing the So we are again in a setting because all the possible So an outcome of the experiment each player ends up getting. And when you get the cards in in which order that It only matters what cards So it only matters which subset All right. So what's the cardinality of experiment? So let's do it for the concrete for the problem of partitioning So think of dealing as follows-- perfectly, and then you take the to one person. In how many possible hands are Out of the 52 cards, I choose 13 the first person. Having done that, what I'm left with 39 cards. And out of those 39 cards, I to the second person. Now I'm left with 26 cards. Out of those 26, I choose 13, And for the last person there Out of the 13, I have to give And that number is So we don't care about it. All right. So next thing you do is to write these numbers. So, for example, here you divided by 13 factorial, factorial, and you continue. And then there are nice This 39 factorial is going to comes from there, and so on. After you do the cancellations left with this particular possible partitions of 52 cards each player gets exactly If you were to generalize this have here, the more general you have n factorial, where n is you are distributing, divided factorials of the-- OK, here I'm doing it for it into four sets. So that would be the answer when four subsets of prescribed And you can guess how that you want to split it into OK. So far we just figured out the Now we need to look at our each player gets an ace, let's ways can that event happens? How many possible hands are has exactly one ace? So I need to think about the distribute the cards so that ace, and then try to think sequential process happen. So one way of making sure that is the following-- I take the four aces and I the four players, but making exactly one ace. In how many ways can I take the ace of spades and I of the four. So there's 4 choices for this. Then I'm left with 3 That person already I take the next ace, and the 3 people remaining. So there's 3 choices And then for the next ace, yet gotten an ace, randomly to one of them. So these are the possible ways aces, so that each person It's actually the same Starting with a set of four partition them into four subsets has one element, the second has has another element, So it agrees with that formula OK. So there are different ways And then there's different remaining 48 cards. How many ways are there? Well, I have 48 cards that I'm players by giving 12 It's exactly the same question that now it's 48 cards, And that gives us this So putting all that together that we can distribute the cards that each one gets The number of possible ways factorial, coming from here, this gives us the number of interest can happen-- and then the denominator is the space, which is this number. So this looks like It turns out that this something really, And if you look at the textbook will see an alternative short cut to the same All right. So that basically concludes From next time we're going to variables and make the subject