Today we are preparing a honey cake from liquid dough, that is, we will not roll out anything. Very convenient, don't you agree? My mother often experiments. And our favorite honey cake was first supplemented with caramel sauce, and then replaced with caramel mousse. And it turned out to be a masterpiece. Just imagine: the most delicate pieces of honey are immersed in sour cream with notes of vanilla. And topped with creamy caramel mousse. Well, it's just a delicious combination, and the cake just melts in your mouth. Externally it is very stylish, but how beautiful it is in cross-section. Once we are convinced that it is perfect, we share the recipe. The most common ingredients for the cakes are used. Please note that eggs are category C1, that is, quite large. For the cream we use sour cream with a fat content of 20%. You can use less fat, 15%, since the cake is assembled in a mold, the cream does not have to be thick. For caramel mousse, we recommend using cream with a fat content of 33%, but it should be liquid to make it easier to work with. Gelatin can be dissolved either in water or in low-fat cream, 8-10%. Let's start cooking with the batter. Place butter in a thick-bottomed pan, add sugar, honey and salt. Transfer to the stove and heat over medium heat until the sugar is completely dissolved, stirring constantly . Why should honey dough be cooked in a thick- bottomed pan? To avoid rapid caramelization of honey and sugar. You can also cook in a water bath, but the dough will be much lighter. It can already be seen that all the ingredients have turned into a homogeneous emulsion, add soda and continue to stir constantly. The mass foams, brightens, and increases in volume, so you need to take this into account and take the pan higher. Reduce the heat a little and stir until we get a beautiful amber color. Once you have achieved the desired result, turn off the heat and leave to cool for 10-15 minutes. The mixture should not be too hot so that the whites do not curdle when adding eggs. At the same time, immediately stir vigorously with a whisk. You can break the eggs into a bowl, shake them with a fork and add them in a thin stream to the honey-butter mixture. If the protein suddenly curls, there is an option to solve this problem. Just take a sieve and strain the mass. It is better, of course, not to allow this to happen. Next, sift 250 g of flour. Stir until smooth. If necessary, add the remaining 50 g little by little and control the consistency. The result should be a homogeneous mass of a beautiful caramel color with such a fluid structure. First, pour in the dough for the base of the honey cake. On the parchment with a pencil, draw a circle with a diameter of 23 cm. Turn it over to the other side and pour out part of the dough. The cake needs to be made as thin as possible, so control the volume of dough poured. Let's level it out. If the drawing turns out perfect, then you won't have to trim it later. Set the resulting circle aside. And immediately pour the remaining dough onto another parchment. Distribute evenly over paper. This is quite easy to do. The dough gradually fills the marks left by the spatula, spreads and a smooth surface is obtained. Place in a preheated oven at 170 degrees. Baking mode - top bottom. Bake for approximately 17 minutes. But you focus on your oven. The main thing is that the cake is well browned. It is clearly seen that mountains can form, which will settle after a while. We take out the cake and immediately start cutting it into squares while it's still hot. First we cut off all the edges. And cut it in half. The trimmings will be useful for sprinkling later. By the way, the cake peels off the parchment very easily. We take one part and cut it into strips about 1 cm wide, one and a half, maybe a little wider. Turn the board and cut it across the same width to make squares. We cut the second part of the cake in the same way. As a result, we get this number of mini-cubes. We divide them into 4 approximately equal parts. In parallel with slicing, bake the base for the cake. 170 degrees, approximately 10 minutes. I repeat. You focus on your oven. Immediately cut the hot cake to size, otherwise if it cools down it will be difficult to do this, since the edges dry out quickly. The diameter of the cake should be 23 cm, 1 cm less than the size of the mold. We chop the scraps from the cakes in any convenient way, the main thing is to get such small crumbs. Preparing the cream. Add sugar and vanillin to sour cream. Beat until smooth. Don't make the cream too thick. Just beat until the sugar dissolves in the sour cream. This will take 3-5 minutes. This is approximately the consistency you should get. Set aside 150 g of cream to grease the side surface of the cake, cover with cling film and put in the refrigerator. We proceed to assembling the cake. Place the split rim from the mold or a split ring on the dish upside down. We install acetate film inside and secure it with paper clips. You can use regular thick film or a thick file, just cut into strips. Apply a little cream to the center of the dish. We coat the cake layer, which serves as the base of the cake, with a thin layer of cream on the bottom. And put it on a plate. Add 2 ladles of cream on top and smooth over the entire surface. Now it is advisable to divide the cream into 4 parts, then the same amount of cream will be used for each layer. You can skip this stage and lay it out by eye, this is optional. We take one part of the cubes and scatter it randomly throughout the cream. Place one part of the cream on top in small piles. This is done so that when leveling the cream the cubes do not move. Carefully distribute the cream to the sides. And we repeat this 3 more times: a layer of cubes and a layer of cream. That is, the cream should be the final layer. Cover with cling film and leave to soak at room temperature for 30-40 minutes. Then put it in the refrigerator to stabilize for 6-8 hours or overnight. The next day, prepare a creamy caramel mousse to cover the top of the cake. It is more convenient to do this in a small frying pan. Add sugar and water. Turn on the fire to maximum. By the way, the diameter of the frying pan is 20 cm. You can also cook in a saucepan or saucepan with a thick bottom. As soon as bubbles appear around the edges, reduce the heat to medium. We do not interfere in any way. Because lumps of sugar crystals may form and will not dissolve. Rotate the syrup in the pan from time to time to ensure even heating. Now it is already actively foaming and bubbling. We continue to rotate further. We observe how the color gradually changes. At the same time, heat the heavy cream, stirring occasionally. Please note - the cream is a little thick, it is better to use thinner ones, as they are easier to work with. Do not bring the cream to a boil, it should just be hot. As soon as the syrup acquires a beautiful amber hue, turn off the heat. Pour in hot cream and stir vigorously. Be careful, the mixture starts to foam a lot. After a minute, turn on the heat, add salt, vanillin, butter, stir vigorously. The aroma in the kitchen is incredible. If you notice that all the ingredients have combined and the consistency is homogeneous, turn off the heat. Strain through a sieve. The result is a very tasty creamy caramel sauce. It can be served with pancakes, cheesecakes, pancakes, casserole, cheesecake, ice cream, etc. There is a fine grain in the structure, this depends on the quality of the cream. Typically the consistency is smooth and glossy. Therefore, use proven quality cream. Even in this form, the sauce can be poured onto the cake, but it is better to transform it into a mousse. To do this, add instant gelatin to the hot low-fat cream and stir until smooth. Instead of cream, you can dissolve gelatin in hot water. Pour into the caramel and stir vigorously until you get a nice, homogeneous consistency. Take the cake out of the refrigerator and pour the mousse onto the set sour cream. Distribute evenly over the entire surface. We put it in the refrigerator. And now a very important tip! Caramel mousse poured about 40 minutes after assembling the cake. And this is what the cake looks like after a night in the refrigerator. What happened? The cubes from the cake absorbed the sour cream, swelled and raised the caramel mousse in lumps. Therefore, attention! The cake should sit in the refrigerator for at least 6 hours before pouring the mousse. You can assemble the cake in the afternoon, the next day smooth out the bumps, pressing them down a little, and fill them with caramel mousse. How can the situation be corrected in this case? Prepare another portion of caramel mousse and pour it on top. This results in perfect surface coverage. Place the cake in the refrigerator for about half an hour to allow the mousse to harden. After a while, remove the side and remove the acetate film. We are approaching the final part of the decor. Although the cake can be served anyway. It looks great and doesn't look like honey cake at all. It can be called TOFFEE cake. Let's finish the decor. We take the cream, which we initially set aside 150 g. We apply it to the side surface. Carefully remove the excess. It is convenient to do this on a turntable, rotating it. Sprinkle with fine crumbs, trying not to get on the caramel mousse. We remove the excess. It works more accurately with a brush. We place a plate underneath and brush it off the table. A spatula is still better and more convenient. Now let's put the spatula on the edge and go along the base, pressing down a little. This creates a clear line. Wipe with a napkin. And what a beauty it is in the end. I can't wait to show you what cake is inside. But for now, let's prepare a delicious and delicate delicacy - cake pops from leftover cream, fine crumbs from the cakes and walnuts. Set aside a little crumb for break-in. Grind the nuts to medium grinding. Mix the remaining crumbs, nuts and cream until all ingredients are evenly combined. You can add a spoonful of caramel sauce here. It will turn out simply divine. Level the mixture, dividing it into 8 parts so that the cake pops are the same size. Take one part and form a ball between your palms. Makes 8 pieces. Place in the freezer for 10 minutes. After that, roll each ball in crumbs. Place on a plate. Decorate with raspberries, mint and serve. Let's cut it. It is very very tasty, and looks beautiful and appetizing. It's time to brew aromatic, healthy tea. A little raspberry, a few clusters of chokeberry, mint and a few slices of lemon. Place raspberries, lemon, mint, rowan berries along with leaves into the teapot. We install the mesh and load crushed rowan and squeezed lemon with juice. Pour boiling water and leave. Store the cake in the refrigerator until serving. It smells so delicious and looks very stylish, nothing superfluous in the decor. Glossy surface of warm caramel color. And only the sides dusted with fine crumbs indicate that this is a honey cake. Well, now the important point. To get a neat, beautiful cut, prepare a knife. Dip the blade into boiling water for a couple of seconds, wipe dry and cut into portions. This cake has two highlights - caramel mousse and a beautiful cut. And thanks to the crust base, the cake holds its shape perfectly. How tender and delicious it is. Creamy caramel with a slight saltiness perfectly complements the cream-soaked honey cubes. This cake will decorate any holiday table. Be sure to prepare it and please your family and friends. And enjoy the taste. If you liked the recipe, please like and comment, we will be very pleased.