What makes me happy is... I think I was definitely born I'm getting a I feel very happy. Very happy. I'm happier now than and I got paid probably twice as here. Our happiness is kind of a stillness. What does The Nordic countries seem to Finland and Denmark have Nations' most prestigious index, Report, in all six How have they And, are the people they The United Nations just named It is not Disneyworld. It's Finland. In 2019, the Finland the happiest country in year in a row. Denmark came the top slot in 2013 and 2016. Year after year, Nordic countries Sweden round out the Enter Jeffrey Sachs, a professor co-editor of the What do those countries have? They have a high level of they're not the richest countries means. The idea is a You don't have to get super In fact, if someone's super with that person? So they're for all of the effort They're looking for a good balance are extremely positive. The annual happiness ranking began trace measuring happiness It came in the inspiration of country in the Himalayas that innovation of attempting to happiness. Globally, a standard productivity is gross Bhutan had the bright idea Measuring happiness is a First of all, we need It means the satisfaction with the It's not primarily a measure smiled yesterday, but how one one's life. Meet Meik Wiking, of the Happiness Research There is a lot of from biology to income levels to But I think the best predictor whether people are happy or satisfied or happy So, do we have somebody we can Do we have somebody we can with? These six categories help in life satisfaction GDP per capita, healthy life life choices, social support, corruption. On average, richer On average, richer But, once we get to a additional $100 a month is not feel about their lives. So, everything else, we see And I don't know why I'm it's extremely corny, but there is which he says that, &quot;Having Not having it is.&quot; And I do that when you don't have it, And when you do have money, other stuff. Happiness also seems We have two words So we have &quot;lykke,&quot; which The thing you experience And then we have to be &quot;glad,&quot; different because it's more down to glad despite the fact that no special day. Lykke seems like this elusive chase. To be glad is So I feel more like I choose than sort of trying to like it's never going Maria lives in Helsinki with 2-year-old son, Luka. Woah! Wow! Ah, hi! Yeah! There little monster. Finland is the best When you go give We stayed in the hospital three We had our own family room support and help And the bill was about It's basically like living In Finland, new mothers receive with 63 items to help You don't have to buy anything months. Of course, diapers and basically. And also, you can sleep in that box. Our baby actually, Luka slept in month. Finland, along with offers generous Anu Partanen, author of &quot;The spent 10 years as a before returning to her She's also a mother. In Finland, parental leave, out of which about for the mother and you start it then father can Typically, both parents stay home weeks. They share the rest of nine months old. A parent can even stay home until and keep his or her job. However, the stipend Another determinant of well-being personal freedom to make Can you shape your life Christina was unhappy at her job eight-month break. Social security think is very important. What I did didn't make me happy that work-life balance that we And so we have a system that quit my job and have some know, what's my next Christina received about $2,000 a government while she She is now in school Her tuition is covered and stipend of about Two of the biggest perks of free education and Income taxes are not at all that Americans tend to think. However, overall, it is completely countries collect more taxes in States does. In Finland and higher taxes on consumption, like buying jeans. But the thing that forget is that the Nordic people taxes because they get Day care, great It includes your It includes healthcare, all of taxes. When the news hit country in the world, I think to it, like, what We don't think of ourselves as and gloomy in the It's easier for Finns and because the government supports so needs. The American dream is Denmark. The perception of freedom little bit different. It seems the feeling is you have to and you have to have I think in Denmark the protects you. People You leave a bag in a sure you're going to make it there. People even leave babies coffee shops while And I think partly the simply by providing basic So there's much less poverty, injustice, inequality, crime. People get the They can have a They don't have to struggle There isn't super wealth and poverty. Everybody It turns out it leads to a that is expressed, year after countries the happiest countries Monica and Alex are expats their two teenagers. Alex is originally from the from New York. What else do you need? The olive oil, and Where's the bowl? We originally only three years, but it was now. It's also safe. And this comes back to We can let our kids go out and being really worried that, are Are they safe Do we have to go pick them up? You still worry, of course, There's still this very strong community. Balance is the Aristotle had it right when happiness 2,300 years ago. According to Aristotle's Golden between two vices, People who pursue only money and richer I am,&quot; turn out I do think having nice surroundings But I also think it needs sort of resonates with you Having nice surroundings and having being in a five-star hotel in happy at all. So I think Cue the classic Rich Perusi, former New Yorker, Copenhagen for seven years. People stay pretty tight to But I do think that we get of time here as we were New York. One of the comments first came here was a Dane working late, &quot;Are they doing their work done? Is there Versus, &quot;Are they just trying There is a sense that, yes, to get your work done to a to make sure Saara Alhopuro is a diplomat schedule to make time So, I actually need to go three days a week. So then the rest of the time of nature. When I walk in quietly, paying attention to all the colors. Very slowly, and I small details. And I completely Usually, I spend about five People don't make as much money they do in the U.S. So, it's not really about You don't have to make as much life as you would So, if we look at we can see that that money happiness. But I mean, on happier. On average, richer But, the mechanism here is being of unhappiness. Not everyone likes either. In Finland, it's been this don't talk about money that much, basically wouldn't tell me how if I would ask as a kid. It would be considered bragging if much you make, etc. People generous and when they feel in is a generous society. And then we find people want government. If government is bizarre or autocratic or corrupt, In 2019, Finland elected minister, 34 year Danes are among the happiest they're not necessarily Lars AP, author of &quot;F***ing movement of the same name, So F***ing Flink is Our prime goal is to take people in the world, but in the world. Why Well, because friendliness and means so much to us. And so we're trying to do realms that we can think of. Finland and Denmark both have million people. The U.S. has over 330 million people. The Nordic countries are Do population size and A lot of countries similarities among people ethnically religion and so on, So it's no guarantee. And on the other hand, it's diversity and more happiness. Our northern neighbor in the higher. Yeah, I think Finland is homogenous countries Still, we have recently had But I would say that I think it's funny because I assumed that Danish society But then we went to see Copenhagen and both him and the guy support kind of opened their white.&quot; And I never really But then, ever since that show, the time. We've been having years from all over Europe. I mean, in the 70s, we had coming up, from from Vietnam. And we had people from And Denmark has remained The 2018 World Happiness natives and immigrants. It shows that when immigrants too. But if the country will experience It shouldn't undermine happiness that there are influx There's also a dark Like in Denmark, one of the stress and people being sick leave their jobs. And people outside of Denmark that meant, like, &quot;What do But it might be that balance here that That you both have to work, but of your family. You also have friends. You also have to, self-realization thing, hobbies And there's so much you have to hours, whereas maybe in New York that you're going to work to expect to have the It can be hard for outsiders cultures. The Danes have such groups. It's not very natural people, new people It is a little harder to come of become part of that group. We've had some great Danish friends, it is harder, I think, from the UK and the U.S. There can be serious side levels of happiness. Within the states, if you look satisfaction, the higher the also the slightly higher the And the theory here is that be unhappy in an otherwise a stronger contrast to how you surrounded by very So Denmark actually used to So in 1980, we had suicide which was I think some of Now, fortunately, it's around 25% 10 per 100,000. South Korea and Lithuania have rates in the OECD as of 2017. So fortunately, suicide rates have Denmark. And also in Finland, reduction over the But still, it's not zero. So we still need to Despite mental health challenges, a culture focuses on Sauna is a sacred I have like so many good moments with my family. Sauna is something that I suppose and love as a Finn. As of 2018, there were 5.5 million people living in million saunas. My grandmother always used to tell fight in the sauna because then sauna elf. And there's even even of Finland, where they say that important political compromises not allowed to fight Danes have mastered the art hygge. I think the best short the art of creating And of course, that is But what is uniquely Danish is describes that situation. You can curl up in a couch good music on and just be a hygge corner of your room. There's a social component to hygge important. Hygge seeps everywhere from cozy drinks So one concrete manifestation of lighting. The rule of thumb is more hyggelig the lights. So Danes love candles. So how does hygge So happiness is both having a life. It's also experiencing moments basis. It's also feeling So, hygge, is this element in experience comfort and pleasure hopefully over time that accumulates of life satisfaction. Another way Denmark and Paid annual vacation. So in all Nordic countries, everybody annual vacation. It varies a Finland, for example, it's typically, year for the same employer, it's and one week in the I actually heard a statistic. It's something like, when Americans October 27, you guys have worked for the entire year. But I actually think that taking also makes you a In Finland, it's traditional to summer cottage or mokki. We did have a summer house It was something that my the 60s I think. And we used to go ther like A week doesn't go past during thinking like, &quot;Oh, I wish Traditionally, the mokkis electricity or running water. And usually, most mokkis come with Sea. You can go to your sauna So in a Nordic country, families that if the parents they can handle much easier children. And of course, then together. Maybe Finnish happiness is know. It's like inner peace, It's not so open. It's like balance. It's more balanced, I think. So, ready! Ultimately, happiness If you think you are having then you're happier. We We compare ourselves So there are social comparisons in houses and how successful we believe terms of sex. So what's one today? For me, something that I've happier is exercise. I think the saying no, or being make you happy. One step to is go first. You're walking down the street, towards you. It might It might be just looking the whatever it is. But go first expect that the other person Don't be reactive, go first. In Denmark, we sometimes talk health. If you want to boost universal tips is doing together with other people So, gather a group of That could be something that Predicting the future on unfortunately. Where will be? It could be It could be much It's a matter of actually direction for the country and one fear and hate, but one that community and the common good.