- You know, this might become I didn't prepare a speech. (audience laughing) but that's not because I didn't care. In fact, it's because I cared so much. If you could imagine sitting down and trying to write that you feel so much about, the way I feel about I won this prize two years that this is a surreal experience. I imagine you probably 'till last night. (audience laughing) And then last night you saw You saw everyone dressed nice, and you realized you were It's like getting a (audience laughing) In our line of work, context is everything. And me and Jon have a The context of that friendship happened in a comedy club in New York city. Jon being 10 years, my senior, I was 17. The first time I saw Jon Stewart right before he walked in the at the club talking about And then they go, oh And I looked over and (audience laughing) - [Jon] So what happened was at night, I would go to the comedy cellar, and they'd put me on as There's 6 billion people in the world. You can't make 6 billion, of them being very ******* up, What are there 40 in there at least five of them are ******* burnt - [Jon] It's the slot that for some reason they think, let's just see - The thing I remember trying to make something to People like Jon made me feel safer. He's a friendly guy. Now the early part of any in hindsight, because so many or try on different But Jon has been been first time I met him. Nice and present. In 1999, he got The Daily Show, that show languished for No disrespect to Craig Kilborn, Yuck. (audience laughing) It was like the body But when Jon got the show, it had a soul. It made people take notice. And in 2002, suddenly, popular news show on television. Actually, I know how Chappelle's Show. (audience clapping) In that context, it was post 9/11. My career was the first time that there was a stove too hot to touch. No comedian was allowed or Janet Jackson's titty You remember that you remember (audience laughing) As we've all learned in our lives. Wartime is crazy in America. They do what Noam Chomsky And the news was off the chain. And Jon was the only decipher that madness. It was a really remarkable thing to watch. - We told you that it Yes, we called it shock and awe, but we meant that in the way of you'll be shocked at And that will make you say, oh. - He's been a great friend to me. I'm not here because I love Jon Stewart. I'm here because he loves me. (audience laughing) Because there's never been a time that I called on him and that he wasn't the first And I was doing my first movie and I needed a celebrity lift Jon was the first one to say Well **** it, I'll do it. (audience laughing) I didn't even know if you smoke weed. You seem like a coke guy. (audience laughing) The city close to where a terrible mass shooting. Nine people were killed and they all pulled up. But Jon, you were the oh I'll be there. And just days after that massacre, and made a much better memory for them. They saw love and support When we were on Comedy Central, I picked the brand of irreverence I said, I'll touch everything But Jon's voice became one And he left right before the most cynical time The time when nobody trusts like Donald Trump can just say fake news. And you say, **** it, I just believe this orange head guy. And we missed you very much. (audience clapping) During the pandemic. When my town was dying and I needed to help raise of the town straight, Jon He was terrified of COVID after his friends had died he had the courage to get on a plane. He came out and met me and we did shows that whole weekend and out there had been off for They were all nervous. And they were all scared. Except for Jon. Jon did 25 minutes off the rip because he because he actually means what he says, because he actually A lot of comics will take this genre for granted the younger comics. They do what I call wokes. They're not jokes. They don't know the difference between a good point and a good joke. Jon is very true to the muse. He takes a good point and Jon it is a miracle to watch you work. You are a cure to what ails our culture. You are a voice that I wish that you'd run for president. (audience clapping) But I imagine that would be (audience laughing) When you started your that you would reach a point like this. And the Mark Twain prize might feel like a finish line or an end to a movie. It is not. It is a starter gun. You are still young. You are still strong. You are still funny. And I do not have the words to how much I love you and but just know whenever you call on me, I will come because you have been one of the greatest friends Congratulations. I'm honored (audience clapping) I'm sorry, I got it before you, (audience laughing) but I'm your lucky lead in. Jon Stewart, ladies and gentlemen. (audience clapping) - Thank you baby. I can't thank you enough. - I love you man. - Thank you - I love you. (fast music)