My name is Bryan Sobolewski. I'm a former diamond thief, and I stole $2.3 million throughout New England. And this is how crime works. I would compare the jewelry in terms of how shady it is. You're never getting the You're probably buying The markup is somewhere when you walk into a store I was 20 when this started, So it was a five-year span. So, you had my dad, My brother, he was the muscle. I was usually the driver. I was usually the lookout. We had an inside guy. Bill So he'd basically feed us who If we were going into a store, he would tell us where the safe is, what time the safe opened up, what time the guy would be there. He himself was a traveling salesman. That's how he knew everybody. We used Bill to place an just so we knew that that and we'd have a certain amount that we'd be able to get from the store. The landscape at the time was, you had a lot of You didn't have a whole lot of chains. There was Kay Jewelers, there but most of them were independent. And they had traveling salesmen with their product lying in their car, and they would travel to these stores and try to sell to them. We tried to hit anybody that or false robberies prior. We never went after anybody clean. And that's very hard to find You'd be surprised how many of these guys are reporting fake robberies and taking the insurance money. Casing a job is, it's maddening, but it's super, super, super important. It's about recognizing traffic. What time a patrol car might go by. All of this stuff fed into what time of day we would do a job. Usually during the day. We didn't mind crowds. Crowds People being interested So, for Seabrook, for the Woody job, it was basically, what Where does he pull his car up? The Raynham robbery, my a Papa Gino's right next and then went back in the car and ate it. Everyone from Papa Gino's remembered us. Every single person. So that's one of the things about casing. You've got to notice, but you So, the cars that we used were never ours. We would go back at night, take the car. We'd go into a mall parking lot. I would unscrew somebody's license plate. We would put that on the My dad would bring it back the next night. He'd just leave it back on the lot. You could never prepare There would be no scenario and go through that some issue that we would have to overcome. I would go in as a customer based on being as average as possible, It was nerve-racking, having bolt cutters just in that we didn't have a key for. My dad would go in with his girlfriend. It sounds so sexist, but Most of the traveling salesmen that we were going after were males. So it wasn't necessarily about It was more about what gender it was. One of the things that we that we could get into the safe. We knew that the for you having loose diamonds and being able to sell them is that every single to bring a diamond out, But my dad did it in a way that he kept sending the guy back that eventually the guy would And most people didn't follow So once we knew the safe was open, that's when we would take down the store. It was 90 seconds at the So when my dad and his and start talking, that's It's 90 seconds from when Kev comes in and the guy's subdued. That's when we hit the clock. I don't know what you have in So there were times we left a case behind. We didn't take everything. The 90-second rule came from bank robbers. They tell you that you cannot Because if you go for the vault, it's going to be more than Everything was based on Kev. It was either cuffs or duct tape or sometimes just standing So my brother would jump over the case, grab them, and put them down. Say, &quot;Just keep your mouth shut. We'll be out of here in a couple seconds. Nobody's going to get hurt.&quot; My dad went after the safe. One time we encountered a it didn't have what we thought was in it, and my dad just wasn't convinced. And he started fooling around and he pressed it, and it popped up, and everything was inside. The bottom was hollowed out. So, I'd always have a ball-peen hammer. And those cases are not easy to break because they all have a layer So when you hit it, just a hole. You have to keep smashing this whole piece of cracked glass into -- and then it makes the items So that's why some of these cases, even the jewelry-store windows, there were people in the '80s that would smash and My dad had rules. We In the scenario that we that wasn't ours and we were looking to we would stage it so that they were only pointed at the victim. So we purposely didn't point so that the victim would And that's exactly what happened. There was a plan that my that we would go in and actually as we could in the Jewelers There is an actual building with five or six floors full of jewelers. And it was something that we squashed because the front-desk We never had to deal because at the time there that required an armed guard be there. The only one was the double And you'll notice that jewelry stores, is there's hold both doors open You'd have to go through one, take a number of steps before And that's because they And at that point, we're like, nope. Most of these stores buzz you in. I can't get into a jewelry store now without being buzzed in. They don't use a high-tech because you have foot traffic. And that stuff, you know, are that are tripped once you go past them? Well, you can't use that during the day. There are alarmed cases now, but again, you have to consider who's When's the last time you did If during the day, during business hours an alarm is going off, I think most people are going and wait for it to shut off. Most people's first instinct isn't to call the police So now you have a live I think the &quot;Pink Panther&quot; jewelry-store robbery went didn't have to be connected to your phone. So once a silent alarm, once it's tripped, it can contact a satellite. The satellite calls the cops. You can't stop that unless you find a way to cut the electricity And even then they have backup systems. So, yes, if the power does go out, that security system's If we left in the stolen car, we'd throw everything in the That's when I had the opportunity to start going through the stuff. We had to keep the stuff in the house. So we would have $500,000 of jewelry, retail. Wholesale, that's probably about a hundred grand worth of stuff. My dad would separate it here are the bracelets, here are the uncut gems, here are the set gems. From there it's just that we could sell to jewelry stores. High-end stuff is super, You know, little trinkets, little chains. My dad made more money off with little beads inside. If it sparkles, people will buy it. So for us, no, there wasn't in terms of what you were grabbing. But if I got five cases in front of me and one's full of diamonds I'm going for that. The gold chain is way than a diamond ring is. You don't want to deal with uncut, because then you gotta go And that's not easy to do. I would rather sell you a because more of it's done and You're charging for the gold. So when you go in and you buy a diamond, now you're paying for the diamond, you're paying for whatever Bill was our main dump site [Censored] was the other person. And this was a guy that understood that the markup is where you make your money, and if you buy stolen stuff, you can mark the hell out of it. So if you buy it at $0.50 on the dollar, you can already just charge charge a little bit more, [Censored] bought a lot of So, getting rid of jewelry in Because as soon as you you're an accomplice. So you gotta understand, after a robbery, every single pawnshop is, you know, the cops say, &quot;If you see any So we couldn't just go here, buy all this stuff. We put it through piecemeal. So it's great to have a but if you don't have anywhere and fencing is what we call Get caught buying fenced And that's how most people get Jewelry party is where it's like a Tupperware party with jewelry. So, come and look at our product. We would lay everything out on the table, display it, and people And it's cash. It's cash business. A lot of diamonds are You can buy fake paperwork for this stuff. So, at the time, it was rare The technology wasn't there, and the technology was expensive. So you have now certifying that will give you a certificate that says this is the diamond you're buying, and this is how it's graded, and this is blah, blah, blah. But you can pay for those. One of the ways we used to You might go into a and they'll take a little pen and they'll hit it with a to tell if it's a real diamond. You're pretty much OK buying any gold, but you gotta make sure it's stamped. So if you have a piece of gold that's, you know, they say is 18-karat gold but there's no stamp that Gold will not magnetize. That might be a way. I used to try to, I'd take some of the stolen jewelry and try to sell it for drugs, and they used to dip it bleach reacts to the other That's not true. It doesn't work. I'm not going to a store and Because you're paying and you don't know. You Some people are probably wondering whether or not what they have on their Diamonds are not rare. A flawless diamond is rare, but sapphires and emeralds are way rarer, if that's even a word, because you just don't find and you don't find them treated or enhanced in some way artificially. Most of the insurance were hearing secondhand what the person reported was stolen from their store. Every job that we did and talk to that person afterwards without knowing that Bill was we heard what he said was stolen, and it was always double. At least double. These guys are taking this problem and turning it into an opportunity. And that's why you're paying is because these guys, insurance companies are If you're really, really good at it, you will have knowledge of how which is why we never pulled a Nashua, New Hampshire, had at the time. I grew up in Boston with organized crime. I wasn't in it, but we all knew ran all of the waste management, An entire section of Boston was devoted to strip clubs, drug dealing. And the second you stepped and did any of that or somebody from that crew or That was the place you did it. And it ran really well. Bulger comes in, and it just No way we would've robbed 22 stores while the Angiulos were in power. They would've either come to or they would've said and you can't hit them. When you think to get his sons involved My dad lived a very different He grew up in Chelsea, Heller's Bar was a mob bar. Right behind Heller's was a frequently, my dad would leave his house and see a tractor trailer where the mob picked They would park it in and that's where they And my dad saw this. So my dad followed every He was an upstanding member of society, unless there was something on the ground that wasn't tied down that he could take. And that was the mentality, I think, of most people in Pay your taxes, keep but if you see an opportunity to take a little something, grab it. My father initially gave to invest in importing This guy decided to take and then tell him that he And my dad was in a bad place. He finally asked if we would help him. He finally just sat down You guys are going to have You're going to have to work full time. I don't have any money to Or we could go get the money back from this guy and set him up.&quot; And that's exactly what we did. And it started the beginning It started as, we gotta save Dad. And then my dad started as, we're helping people. We're going after this guy, he's dirty, and this guy ripped people off, and if we stop him, he won't rip anybody. It was like a Robin Hood kind of thing. After five, you start we're not superheroes, and we're What are we doing? And that's when things my brother and I were very worried at how much further this was going to go. The real victims are anybody their right to freedom, their without somebody tying them It doesn't stop with them. It stops with anybody that had to hear about I was arrested on December 26 of 1996. There was enough distinctiveness about us to separate us from anybody else doing it. There weren't a whole lot of crews. There weren't a lot of I went to rehab and I and my brother and father continued. They did two more, and then But I stopped because I had sobered up, and I went back to school to become a drug and alcohol counselor. My brother was already arrested. My father was already arrested. They were both sitting awaiting trial, and I knew they were coming for me. To me, prison was a lot like criminal university. So many inmates would &quot;OK, what did you do? How And they leave with knowledge So prison is a, it can be an education in terms of if you want to that's the place to go that got caught and figure I think the hardest part wasn't the jail time. It's the stigma. I couldn't get hired. Regret sucks, man. It really does. It's not easy to live with. It was ultimately my decision. And I, you know, I could and wasn't capable of but I was 20. My father and brother passed My brother and I had a very difficult and complicated relationship. We very rarely got along. And when we bonded, it was So through our drug abuse, we bonded. Through the robberies, we bonded. In prison, we bonded. But whenever we were substantial to solidify that The book I wrote is and it was my attempt to to talk to kids, to talk to people, to maybe use the how crazy this story is to kind of scare you straight. I work as a personal trainer now. I created my own certification. I wrote my own book that for this type of exercise. And it is now approved by three, four certifying bodies I do the podcast, I do Podcast allowed me to It allowed me to break down It brought me and my dad together.