(lively guitar strumming) (lively music) - We are at the Canadian Museum of Nature in Ottawa, Ontario and there's so much to see here. But let's go find the dinosaurs. Whoa. Look at all the dinosaurs. They're so big. 85 million years ago, these giant dinosaurs all over the planet. And most of the bones that you see here are real dinosaur bones that have been found all over the Earth. I think that's pretty amazing. Oh, triceratops. Wow. See his horns? It's amazing just how big dinosaurs are. And look, a big tail. Wow. This is the head of Parasaurolophus. It might have blown air of its head. When it would come out, (grunting) That's how they would talk to each other. Hi, Parasaurolophus. He says hi. Oh. Look, this dinosaur has feathers. It's called an Archaeopteryx and it's one of the first birds that was ever discovered. Wow. I've never seen a bird like that. Look at this one. They have big horns on their head. But I wonder why do they - Hi, Caitie. - Hi, everyone, this is Dr. Jordan Mallon. He's a paleontologist here at the museum. That means he studies dinosaur bones. So Jordan, I guess how come - Well, this is an animal and it was a horned dinosaur and all horned dinosaur on the backs of their heads covered with spikes and that would so we think that these animals in order to lighten the load. - Oh, so their head's not - That's right. - That's makes a lot of sense but it still looks really good. - Absolutely, I think so. - Hey, I got something cool to show you. Do you wanna come see it? - Yeah, I'd love to see something cool. - Let's check it out. So Caitie, I have something I wanna show you the difference and a meat-eating dinosaur. This is a jaw from something and I flip it around here, you can see that it's got hundreds of teeth growing up through here. - [Caitie] Wow, there's so many. - That's right, yeah. They grew up in these rows together and if I spin this things around, you can see sort of the All these teeth form a big for grinding up the tough plants. - So these are plant eaters. - Exactly, yeah. - Wow, they really do - They do, in fact, that's because as their teeth there's always new ones coming up on the other side to replace them. - A fresh new tooth. - Absolutely. - Okay, well, what about these teeth? - Wow, so that's the jaw of a Tyrannosaur. I think we've all heard and they have big, sharp - [Caitie] So this must be a meat eater. - Exactly, these big sharp pointy teeth are used for cutting through meat. - It is really sharp. - And they're also replacing although they don't have quite as many of these duck-billed dinosaurs. - I guess they don't need them. - Exactly, yep. So the behind us here, the Hypacrosaurus and my question for you is is this plant eater - Okay, well, let's take a look. I see the teeth are flat, like this one so I'm gonna say it's a plant eater. - Exactly, bingo. The Hypacrosaurus was a plant eater. In fact, it's an animal called just like this guy here, so we know from the flat teeth that these guys were eating plants. - Where do you find all - Well, we have to dig In fact, we have a really cool where you get to do just that. Would you like to see it? - Yeah, I'd love to. - Cool, let's check it out. - So check this out, Caitie. This is what we call a jacket. A plaster jacket containing - [Caitie] So these are - They are. It's actually the foot called a Hadrosaur. - Wow. And so when we dig these things up, we bring them back to the museum here and we work on them with tools like this to finish getting them out of the ground. Did you wanna give that a host maybe? - Yeah, that'd be lots of fun I think. Okay. Let's try it. - [Jordan] So what you away the rock that's actually - [Caitie] You have to be careful, I don't wanna hurt the bone. - [Jordan] Yes, it takes a long time. (chuckling) Sometimes maybe weeks or on how hard the rock is. - [Caitie] Wow. - But eventually, you'll get and you can assemble them, you can put them together and figure out what the - Oh, and then we know how big it was. - Yeah, we can study how big it was, we can study what it ate And we can build a reconstruction of what we think the animal would have looked like in real life and we actually have in our some dinosaur reconstruction so you can see what they - Skin and muscles and everything? - [Jordan] Exactly. - Wow, I wanna see that. - Check it out, yeah. - Okay, let's go see it, everyone. Thank you so much for showing - It's my pleasure, thanks - Okay, let's go. (playful music) Whoa. This is what dinosaurs would Remember we saw this one. It had holes in the crest of its head and Jordan said it was because so they could lift it up. Hello. So this is what it looks like when the skin is covering it. It's really pretty. And these must be meat eaters. They have sharp teeth. Wow. There's so much to learn about dinosaurs. And paleontologists like our friend Jordan are discovering new things every day. Maybe one day you'll discover a dinosaur and it could be on display at a museum like the Canadian Museum of Nature. - [Kid] Whoa.