This is Dr. Tom Biernacki What's the best magnesium? The most popular one is magnesium oxide. What about magnesium? Closely. What about magnesium citrate? What about magnesium Threoate? Why can't you just eat magnesium? What about magnesium sulfate? We're starting now. Historically in our diets We had a ton of magnesium, but now 66 It's missing in our supply. It's missing in our water supply. It's really depleted. Blood tests Magnesium is 66% deficient now, It's tough to measure. We need 22 to 26 grams in our bodies, and only 5% of it And that's really all we measure. So a lot of studies have shown how high It's present in 600 enzymes in our body. Very critical element. It was previously in water, It's not in our water anymore. We're not drinking water out of streams We're also eating process diets. It's said that 80 to 90% of the magnesium Most of our calories are coming now cookies, simple calories, And we used to just eat 2000 calories Our nutrition If you have a magnesium deficiency, weakness, cramps This could be mild discomfort. You could have depression. You could have anxiety. You could have a lot of worry You could have osteoporosis. It's said that 25% of seniors weak joints, high risk of fractures, Check out her osteoporosis guide You could have fatigue, muscle weakness. Do you feel like not getting up? Do you feel and motivated? Could be magnesium. It's related to high blood pressure. It's related to heart problems. Blood flow problems. Severe deficiencies could cause It could cause irregular heartbeats rhythm problems, nausea, numbness, Abnormal sensations can occur. Personality changes All very common. All very well studied. All very well documented. And the deficiency is high Gastrointestinal diseases like Crohn's. Celiac diseases. People who are vegans might not get People who drink alcohol might not absorb Diabetes, 30 It's essentially happening everywhere especially after the COVID lockdowns And as you get older, And certain medications, diuretics, as far as use. So it is possible to supplement. It is possible to eat foods. And in fact, I have a list of the 15 we count down from least practical including the foods you probably should be Check out that video below. We're going over all the best types And for your age, for the adult male, 420 milligrams of elemental magnesium You want to begin Now, there's a great book. It's called The Magnesium Miracle by Dr. Carolyn Dean. I try and read all these books but she basically goes over four reasons One of them's kidney failure. One of them is myasthenia gravis. One of them's bowel obstruction. And then some people But outside of that, 99.9% of people And if you take too much, essentially, you The disclaimer is don't go crazy. Always follow medical recommendations So what you want to do with any supplement is make sure it's Gradual increase said don't Start slow, gradually. Work it up and monitor your symptoms. Make sure you're feeling good. Report to your doctor symptoms for all these is diarrhea, That's I've always seen magnesium oxide a lot of people in the comments saying, There's good studies, But generally it's not meant Magnesium hydroxide is also meant for It's not meant to be absorbed. Magnesium carbonate. Same kind of thing. It's an antacid. It's not meant to be absorbed We're going to talk about for absorption. Number one is magnesium oxide. This is the most popular and the most There's a couple of things Number one, the bioavailability. This is something that I've always known is that it has low bioavailability It's actually good for being a laxative. Most magnesium oxide is a laxative. If you take too much, it's These laxatives Even though the bioavailability is low, into your system, but it's used for acid It can be used as a laxative. There's a lot of popular brands out there. That's really what magnesium oxide is for. It's more of a laxative effect Is it the best choice It's probably not. Some of the ones we're going to talk about And medical studies does have a lower absorption rate You still absorb But because there's so much, The typical dosage is about 200 to 400 There's a lot in formulas and complexes, not the number one choice Just be aware of the laxative effect For some people, that's a good thing. The reality is magnesium oxide is the most plentiful form So you can still take it even though It is so low cost and the side effects are really just So if you're constipated, It's very affordable, and realistically Like if you take twice as much just take a little bit more. So as a recommendation, start The guides recommend so I'll start with like 200 300 grams Take a little bit more up to 500 grams. That's not a bad idea. Magnesium citrate. Magnesium citrate is much and it's water soluble, This is used as bowel preparation If you take a lot, it'll clear you out. I know when I worked in the E.R. and people were plugged up they would potentially take some of this. This is one that I've taken for years. A lot of my family members have taken it. In fact, if you have problems with that. Studies have shown that magnesium citrate is much more bioavailable Probably a better choice, especially A typical doses 200 to 300 milligrams You run So just be careful. Don't attack me in the comments So the tips are Now, magnesium citrate So you have to be careful because taking You're going to have diarrhea, And for older people, So use it as a supplement for food. So try and get at least half of it and then use this as a supplement because otherwise in regular dosages. Magnesium citrate is one of my go to. It's relatively low cost in the powder magnesium glycemic. Magnesium glycine is highly bioavailable, similar to magnesium citrate, So you're getting some amino acid Now, glycine in my sleep video I go over for helping to sleep. So not only does magnesium help you sleep, glycine helps you sleep It acts as an inhibitory neurotransmitter it is a safe medication There's not a whole lot of long and can have some medication interactions. if you don't struggle with constipation, magnesium It's known for its laxative effect. It calms the brain. It can help sleep, it can reduce anxiety, So the glycine helps, the magnesium helps If you're using it for the calming, benefits, magnesium glycine is very unique It's a great option. It's an amino acid bound to glycine. Medical studies show that magnesium glycine is effective and helps with stress, anxiety The typical dosage is about 100 It's very bioavailable It is highly recommended for those and don't want to have explosive diarrhea. Now, a new one I'm going to mention In fact, I did a video going over Essentially, this was developed by a scientist at M.I.T., It's magnesium combined with threonic Where this is notable is in studies. It's been shown that magnesium L threonate I actually go over the studies get into the brain as well as magnesium And that's been shown in both human models There are cognitive effects. So some of the studies I go over showed and learning functions. It actually does help the brain. There's neuroprotective effects. It can help enhance memory and learning in the brain have something called That means not as much can squeeze through because the brain wants to protect itself and parasites to clean up mood regulation. So it's said that that can help because more of that magnesium And as a result can help more in I go over those studies in depth. It's a little bit of a longer video, so you can see if it's worth the money I'm actually in the midst of trying and I've enjoyed the benefit, It's hard to say for certain the dosage in the study is 1000 because a small percentage of that Most of the weight As a result, 1000 or 2000 100 to 150 milligrams Now, that doesn't mean you have to take three and eight. But in the studies, that's Should you take more? Nobody really knows the answer for sure. The studies still need to be worked on and it's a little bit more expensive, Watch that whole video. how do you know and how do you know that you need for your central nervous system Well, there's no perfect answer, but Our whole body has up to 26 Approximately 60% is stored in bone, 39% is inside our cells, not in our blood. And just 1% is found in free So we're measuring Magnesium, a myth is can blood levels Some people say yes, but most people, that measuring just 1% of the total Even though there is some debate, that allow for whole body And these are a number one This involves taking a high dose and seeing how much comes out Is this a perfect test? It's a pretty complicated test Then there's the magnesium isotope Basically, you have radial labeled and you can use different types of imaging to measure that or seeing Is that something you want to do? It's not necessarily So rather than measuring it, effective to take magnesium The tough part with medicine right now and there's opinions for everything. But most patients I run into to see me or their primary care doctor. The system is not working correctly. People don't get proper tests. They can't get their vitamin test really. Unfortunately, to take care of themselves, And that's why we make videos like this resources to make a better decision Realistically, if it's cost effective and relatively safe I just focus on doing that Most people in the comments Hey, I started doing that that were mentioned in these studies. Your brain has something called the blood In the studies we looked at is the best, that penetrating to the other types of magnesium two Magnesium oxide is the most available. It's the cheapest form and it is actually absorbed, but it's If you take too much, It helps with heartburn But the reality is citrate and magnesium Check out my videos on all the other forms I think overall, the one I've recommended glycine eight by three and eight. I'm testing right now as well,