You may have heard of the Mayan civilization ruins when you visited Mexico, or seen their You may also know them as the people who constantly been shifted by conspiracy theorists materialize. But given our current multiple those predicting the end of the world Anyway, over 1,000 years ago, the mighty Mayan of the Western hemisphere...just...disappeared. How fail to divine their own collapse? And how We sent a very reluctant and time to the moment just before the Mayan The first signs of the Mayan civilization southern Mexico, and parts of Belize. organized around the cultivation Gradually, the Mayans developed more advanced systems. However, they weren't the only In fact, the Mayans lived side by side with the culture of the region of present-day Mexico. Most significantly influenced Mayan society. However, whether the Olmecs actually came first or if Drs. Takeshi Inomata and Daniela Triadan, that we can only assume led an spent years excavating the ruins of Initially, Ceibal was thought to have been almost wholly influenced and inspired However, when Drs. Inomata and the oldest structures they discovered predated the most ancient construction Thus, it seems that the Olmecs were but rather developed around the same time. Many archaeologists now believe between Olmecs and Mayans are erroneous, Mesoamerican mini-civilizations started developing borrowing from and influencing each other, This belief is strengthened by the fact that writings over time, and the Olmecs as a group However, the Mayan civilization continued Over the next centuries, the original Mayan they became full-fledged cities. Unlike the these cities had large religious centers, temples, palaces, athletic fields, The Mayans also engaged in extensive developed a complex hieroglyphic writing in the last century. Archaeologists was created between 200 and 300 B.C., This shows that we are still learning and much of its history, culture, and daily What we have gleaned comes from and their only four surviving codices, as well as held together by jaguar skin covers. Because there are only four codices in existence books when they found them upon However, unlike most ancient the Mayans were not brought down by the Spanish. The Golden Age of Mayan civilization was paying any attention during your high that 900 A.D. was long before the Spanish and Understanding what may have led to the collapse of the Mayan civilization means During the peak of their civilization, the architecture, and their calendar systems. In calendar systems in the world, based partly on They had two simultaneous calendars: and another known as the long-count b'ak'tun. The latter told us the Perhaps not shockingly, the calendar itself of people for whom the apocalypse can't What the long-count calendar does say is of 13 b'ak'tun and the very last one of However, this doesn't necessarily we know it. First of all,...it is past though admittedly, not in the best state. units of measurement that counted millions In addition to their surprisingly accurate they built glorious pyramids, some of which Palenque, and Tulum, if you can even of Instagram influencers on the local beaches. the Mayans' astronomical research. At the top of is a dome-shaped structure known as El Caracol Though, to our knowledge, no telescope been perfectly aligned with the movements of and religious figures of the day to get clear of the thick jungles of Central America. on accurately cataloging the movements of movements of celestial bodies were intricately As noted before, when discussing the that life and time were a series of cycles. In fact, according to the Popol Vuh, the the creation of man was also Initially, humans were constructed imagine from this structurally unsound The second cohort was built out of wood, and they were washed away, presumably in one So, what ingredients finally did the according to their mythology, the humans that which should give you an idea of just how The Mayans valued many goods very in the modern day. For example, the gold literally kill for centuries later, was only Besides that, gold had no real monetary value instead, they preferred to trade and barter people. Even when it came to precious metals and However, gold was used in religious rituals, which sometimes involved...yes, In the Mayan world, there was a kind of heaven as Xibalba, with nine different layers, each ruled to pass through before ascending to heaven. It Maybe that's why the beliefs of the not only into heaven but "supreme" heaven, i.e., the top layer. This was reserved for those reasons or at the ball court - we'll get into Thus, the benefit of becoming a sacrifice straight to winning against the equivalent The drawback was that you would be have four men hold you down - to represent the and then be decapitated, often This would usually happen at the summit both to other Mayans and to the gods, for whom Other animals were sacrificed as well, but the Some of the events that merited a human sacrifice rise of a new ruler. Others involved losing Athletic fields have been discovered in At least one - in Chichen Itza - is bigger The game was not just for fun and sport; it was intricately connected It's supposedly based on a game that two of brothers by the name of Hun Hunaphu still on earth, and it signifies the battle Only the right hip, right elbow, and with the ball, and the ball itself, weighing could never touch the floor. The two teams and the goal was for the offensive team to preferably through a tiny, and we mean a at the top of the border wall, while the defense's We're not sports specialists, but one team's You may be wondering where human quite a few historians believe been ritually killed in these games or, Others believe this aspect of the ball game was been killed at the end of a ball game, but they Either way, it's clear the ball game held for Mayan society, and courts for these games have been found throughout the former This relatively unified mythology may give one strong empire. However, the reality was akin to the Greek city-states, that Each city of the Mayan empire had though some cities bucked the trend of autocracy. Ceren, for example, was a village and buried around 600 A.D. in a volcanic area found no evidence of an elite village was set up communally--in other That being said, god-like rulers seemed and some of them, like Pakal of very own dedicated pyramids. Pakal was funerary masks, and, of course, the bodies of Apparently, the phrase "everyone dies One of the most well-known and centuries before it became known as the students disappointing their parents, was Cancun. Various archaeological finds have confirmed extended up to 800 A.D., though little remains last intricately carved panels depicting the This is where we can start investigating as Cancun gives us one possible reason. Archaeologists have determined that around the city was attacked. Evidence of mass bodies showing signs of violent, brutal attacked Cancun massacred the royal family Could the Mayan empire have collapsed as a Well, some cities may have but there's more to this story than meets the eye. You see, there are signs that the power of mysteriously disappeared. The collapse itself fell over a period of 100 years, with However, in some locations, local inhabitants just got up and left one day. For example, in the ancient city of gorgeous murals adorning its walls. Though a glorious battle around the year 791, There are half-finished sketches on still visible today, indicating on it and planning to complete Aguateca, located in Guatemala, its borders. Builders and artists were it became obvious they were either called away, Part of the temple stelae had been smoothed, with the usual detailed carvings found in Mayan Strangely enough, archaeologists also found was mysteriously abandoned, the people of structures, like palisades and other were threatened? Had an invader leveled This phenomenon was observed throughout not just in a few select cities. Petexbatun and then continued Scribes stopped recording history, and buildings and artwork were left half-finished. disappear. Their descendants still live in Mexico languages, most often in addition to the An estimated seven million people identify as El Salvador, parts of Honduras, and, of course, the Yucatan Peninsula in Mexico, as In fact, there are approximately 750,000 to 1.2 number of people with Mayan surnames though many may not speak Mayan Mexico's National Institute of Geography Yucatan State's population approximately 42% of Guatemala's and unfortunately, they tend to experience a So if the actual people are still to their civilization and cities? they weren't completely ethnically cleansed did later introduce the remaining Mayans to them - or any of the other horrible fates that Well, here are some theories about the demise seem to show evidence of brutal attacks. First, historians believe overpopulation Mayan cities. The biggest Mayan city at approximately 50,000 inhabitants at This may seem like nothing compared to the crowding our planet; after all, to Guatemala City currently has a population However, with the resources and 50,000 people concentrated in one city The Mayans likely would have struggled to their population, leading to discontent, famine, and people seeking food to sustain themselves Another theory about the disappearance of the this one. It explains why the fall of the Mayan Researchers have found evidence of a lowlands around the Mayan cities at which, if you recall, is the same time Cambridge University researcher Nicholas Evans Chichancanab in the Yucatan Peninsula, located gave some great insights into the climate By examining oxygen and hydrogen Evans and his team found that the Mayans not the time of their collapse but also intermittent Soil analysis shows that annual long periods during this 400-year time span. This is significant because it also to build up food reserves to buffer of drought if they had already faced Unfortunately, the drought was likely especially the final one that led Mayan farmers practiced slash-and-burn the quantities of maize they needed they had to tear down a significant Trees were also used as fuel This deforestation likely caused a form of with rising temperatures due to absorb atmospheric gasses and A drought like this would have exacerbated any to a lack of work for farmers, a lack of food for this could have easily contributed not only to perhaps rebelling against their rulers for This is where Mayan beliefs and the Ajaws and the ruling class were often of keeping the gods pleased in order to provide If the Mayans saw their food sources dwindling concluded that their local Ajaws were not doing This also raises the possibility that the all been attacked by outsiders. Some may have their own populations, which would remove temples for the area's rulers, as they would However, the existence of additional defensive also points to some threat of outside this could be evidence of attacks or the not necessarily an entirely foreign force. The drought and food shortages could have of warfare causing the availability Historians have discovered texts from the cities more frequently than usual. depicting captured enemies and listing While various Mayan cities the movement of troops and various skirmishes not to mention the ability of cities to For the Mayan economy, which was this would have been especially the number of supplies the people could In turn, this would likely spur some rulers of additional supplies for their own population. Thus, it's likely that a population peak, exacerbated by warfare, worked together to However, these are not the only theories weakened by the idea that certain for example--continued to flourish for about Then, these cities in the north of the Yucatan quickly. So what caused two collapses to Well into the 10th century, reliefs and and other buildings of Uxmal show scenes of to carve them and fight in wars, so it seems In fact, the impressive Governor's Palace was built in the 10th century. This was not only surviving at the time but thriving. In the 11th century, the same fate started of the former northern part of the Mayan left half-finished, and the entire area around This occurred at the same time as but it, too, was eventually abandoned. No one really has a good idea as to why experienced less severe drought. Perhaps, they could source more supplies for their Perhaps, as some voices on the Internet suggest, the Mayans were visited by aliens who ended their It seems likely that, in the long environmental practices were simply supporting an ever-expanding population Though we still don't know exactly what happened overpopulation, warfare, and political for what brought the once mighty civilization to worry about things like that leading to the Today, many descendants of the Mayans preserve farming practices, traditional jewelry making, in certain ways, Mayan culture continues onwards, Unfortunately, many indigenous descendants of the countries in which they live in ways that are Civil War, which ended in 1996, the victims of Now check out "Aztecs vs Spartans - Who