- 20 million people in the and 4 million claimed - There is something serious going on. Anybody who's seen or will tell you they are real. But how do you investigate something that appears and disappears? Despite the claims of there are none, but they do leave marks. That lights can go off, strange magnetic forces appear, and they're looking at the evidence and they're coming to a conclusion. It's coming from another But here's the real kicker, Scott. There's cases where these by people calling on the As Christians, this is one area where we can explain the answer. - What is the answer? Gary today, the UFO and alien issue looms larger than ever with world governments openly and officially investigating this issue. Now, I'm really excited because you've got over in researching this matter. You are a best selling and you have an award-winning So thanks for being with me here today. And what I wanna ask you, first of all is what are people seeing and is the government and are they covering things up? - Well, thank you. First off, let me say that The government has officially So they don't call them UFOs anymore, which meant unidentified flying objects. It's unidentified anomalous phenomena to explain what they're seeing. And I think the reason they've the history of UFOs, but it has some kind of historical aspects to So I think they're trying to view it as a more legitimate area And indeed, the US government has not been candid about Everybody who studies this like myself knows that they and lots of And I think to credit them in some way, they've not known what which is why they've not been candid. But there's been a bit of a quantum shift in the last few years under Harry Reid, former leader he's turned round and said we were continuing to So that was a bit of a but not to people like me The US government has for over 70 years. - Wow. they started with two and then Project Blue Book, which was made into a There was the Condon Report, and of course there was the and an independent group called the Government Accounting Office investigated that as well. So yes, they are seeing something. Ordinary people see things, lots of them have contact me and the things that they see, but the fact that the that they are seeing something and they're openly investigating it in the 20 something years that's a big change. - One of the amazing things that I saw when watching was that this has that is very widespread. And I remember hearing and I think it was, you it was, I think it was a that the statistics were, or I think that 20 million people in the US have seen a UFO, claim to have seen a UFO, and 4 million claimed - Yeah, well that was called a roper pole in 1998. And of course, they take a sample size and then extrapolate But I actually think those because, and probably even more, because wherever I go and speak on it, which has been hundreds of times almost without fail, Scott, somebody comes up to me and tells me that they've seen things, and I've literally met that have seen things. They're looking for closure. They don't know what they saw. The simple fact is that over can be explained by natural People are looking up, lay people, they don't know what they're seeing. Things like the planet Venus you know, about over 30% How can that be? It's because it appears It doesn't twinkle like a star. It looks like a glowing ball. And what causes people to are kind of their worldviews UFOs are interpreted like based on our belief systems. If you believe that there was a big bang 14 billion years ago and that our Earth is in a relatively young part of the universe, there are alien races that could be millions or billions on the evolutionary scale. And could you imagine the they've developed in that time? And that's how come they can fly millions of light years across the galaxy or the universe rather, and stealthily abduct in the middle of the night. Now the other option, of course, is, which we can talk about well there's evolution So that then begs the question, But, you know, we can deal with - Yeah and I think I think I got this from is that 200 years ago, if a farmer, I think you mentioned if a farmer in his field he probably wouldn't be able - He wouldn't know what it means. He probably doesn't even realize there are distant star systems. So he interprets it within his cultural understanding of the day, you know, maybe I need to Or maybe it's a spiritual phenomena, demon or whatever, depending But, you know, getting back they, as I said, they've and very recently that there was a congressional hearing about this. - Yeah. I wanted to ask you about this. So this was as recent as July, 2023, and there were really It looks like the government they're actually admitting now something is going on, So why are they admitting that now? And so this is 2023, it's a new age, the government's admitting Why are they admitting it now? And were they covering it up earlier? - Well, in my movie &quot;Alien Intrusion&quot;, I'm masking a deception. We showed some footage conference at the Washington Press Club and over 80 Air Force officers. These are just not enlisted guys. So these are guys with, you know, responsible positions in the military, got up and gave testimony about seeing UFOs flying at speeds that our They merge into one another, they do right angle turns or accelerate towards the ground and come back up without slowing down. So these are literally And then more shockingly, they said that they've entered nuclear missile silos and have affected the operational readiness So that was very startling. So I, to be honest, I've never mentioned and spoken about that because it's almost like a bridge It's too hard to believe. But Harry Reid, who I mentioned before, in fact go to creation.com type in his name, you can see an interview where he actually says that these UAPs have affected the operational readiness of America's nuclear that if the president had or even a defensive strike, So when you've got people in your military who are witnessing all of this stuff, it's ultimately gonna be a bit hard to keep the lid on it forever. - Do you think that's true? That's, so Harry Reid, who was he again? - Former senate majority So second after the he's the next guy in line. Yeah, so he's a UFO enthusiast, though. He is a UFO believer. And you'll see elsewhere. But yes, I, you know, there are too many testimonies And that's a serious But here's the thing. What are they dealing with? And they still don't know. - Yeah, and and you said And we were chatting earlier and you were saying influenced by their prior beliefs. In fact, you've already it's the worldview of the day you in. So could have that had - I think so, yeah. I think, and even my own informal polls, I think if you go and in a public high school or the UK or anywhere, do aliens exist? You'll get Of course they do. It's not a maybe. And again, what underpins that is the fact that we live in such a massive universe and people think if evolution's true, must have evolved somewhere else. - Yeah if we are just here by accident and the universe is huge, then there must have been another accident happening elsewhere. - Absolutely, 'cause We're talking billions of years. You know, not thousands billions of years is - Yeah and as we were saying, so that we're told that the earth is only so the solar system's about that old, but possibly there's other star systems that evolved earlier and therefore they might be more advanced. - Yeah. - Exactly. that this is driven by a and would that match the You know, how, so the theory of evolution came about, Charles Darwin 1859, How soon after that did we start getting the thought about aliens or was aliens, was that possible before? - No, not really. No, I think it's a modern phenomenon. The phenomenon itself is not new. It's the interpretation of We can talk about it later, but in the movie we wherever we've got written records, the ancient Greeks, Alexander said he saw flying Wow. American Indians have with occupants on board, for example. So we have records of these anomalous sightings throughout history. But again, are they interpreting something that is shiny and metallic Or are they literally We don't know. 'cause we're not there. My personal view is it manifests towards the cultural And I'm not alone in that. Even non-Christian researchers like Nick Redfern will say that it masquerades towards the people that it's appearing to. - Interesting, so some the popular idea of aliens So the evolutionary worldview to 200ish years ago has influenced how this phenomenon manifests. - Yep, definitely, it's changed over time. There's no question it's changed in the last a hundred years. It's only since about the 1940s, which corresponds with the jet age, that we start to see the and you know, the most popular shape in the seventies was the triangle shape. And you know, I have no - And so when people spot a UFO - That was very, very common, yeah. - Interesting, and I guess there's also, since the roughly the sixties, I know at least in America and Australia, there's evolutions been taught in all schools since about that age. So you've got that worldview being set in people's minds. So they're interpreting this phenomena. - Let me just say something here. So in my experience, most Christians also don't have a problem with the idea that God created aliens and they're possibly visiting us as well. So the door is definitely And that's something - Yeah, I really, I do because I've experienced the same, there's a lot of Christians that say, okay, God could have created things. So instead of evolving God could have created So we're gonna hit that one and talk about what I'd like you to explain that to us. So we've talked about the July but what about, there's something even more recent than that. September 2023, we had the little aliens What's that all about? - Yeah, and look there's which is kind of the study of UFOs, I suppose I qualify as a ufologists, and it's called debunker. So when something comes up, you're always too eager to put it down. So let me just say, I've already said there is something going on But in this case, this is one And unfortunately, the gentleman who brought forward these two And look, to be honest, they look fake. And I think it's because they are. You've got to dive between, dive underneath and deeper So you see things like alien bodies. Now the gentleman that produced these, his name is Jamie Malson, He's a, well-known Mexican ufologist. He's been criticized and found out hoaxing and faking There was a Peruvian mummy that was allegedly alien in the past. And what they say are things like, we are getting scientific So they're not telling So when you hear, oh, they're the initial inclination is to think, oh, the scientific research But you can go on there the scientists and the have distanced themselves from his claims. And the best we can find out, 'cause it takes a while, publish a report and probably that it's an assemblage of llama bones and there are some human bones in there and all sorts of stuff like that. And this reminds me of another episode, which I wrote about called Steven Greer. It's former medical doctor. He might had a movie called Serious. I've written a review on But it was one called the Atacama Alien. And there were pictures of but it's got a very weird And it's definitely a mummified organism. So in the movie he said, we are getting DNA testing done on this. Wow, they're getting DNA But then later, the organization that was doing the DNA testing came out and they said, it's human. It was a deformed, you know, fetus. It was the case of dwarfism. And in the very, very dry desert in Peru, it had desiccated the body, but because of its, you it had a weird shaped head and so on. And that kind of reminds me just on that, you know, we mentioned the There was a former military Air Force officer named David Grus, and I've been sent a lot I watched it, he was asked he said, and the question was, &quot;Have you recovered alien bodies?&quot; And again, I'm gonna because his answer really told me everything that I needed to know. He didn't answer yes or no. He said, we have recovered I mean, what does that mean, right? I mean, it could have been I mean, it's anything could be biological material. So why do I say this? You know, people are complex beings. We either put them into they're mad or they're bad. But we talked about our worldviews and our beliefs shaping apart. And I've experienced that people who believe that and the government's covering it up. And sometimes the end justifies the means. You know what I'm saying? Like, I want you to believe, So if I'm not quite candid with the truth and it causes you to investigate more, maybe I can get you, you know, So when somebody gives a bit it tells me, ah, okay. He's not playing with a straight bat, as we'd say in Australia. - Interesting. But you said you are not a debunker, and so you recognize these experiences that these people have had. So I think what you're saying, Gary, correct me if I'm wrong, okay, I acknowledge that even the people that are fraudsters for want of a better word, that are putting forward but they're not, would maybe they're probably an experiencer, someone that's had an experience. 'Cause as we said, 4 million people, and that's just in the US, have experienced alien abductions, and they're an experiencer and they want other people to because to them it was very real. Is that a fair assessment? - Yeah, I think that can be part of it. It might not, they might not but they've met lots of They have similar stories, then you think, well they can't be watching all the same science fiction movies. Yes. So there has to And that is the experience and indeed, it's my experience. When I'm meeting people, particularly at the levels of abductions, which is where I think, you know, later on we can talk about that. But I think that's unpick or unpack what's going on. - Yeah and that pattern was I mentioned in your movie Alien Intrusion, how I'd heard that figure, and we talked about it earlier. So 90%, well first of all, 20 million people in the US seen UFOs. And you said 90% of them can be explained by physical phenomenon. But there's 10% that can't. - Yeah but the 10% that can't, that it's alien technology It just means we don't at the time to identify it. So let me tell you what actually And I know them, they're friends of mine. They work for MUFON in the United States. They go out, they write this is what I saw, what what was the environmental Then they'll say, was the Air Force or anybody conducting drills? Was the moon out? They'll investigate all of these things. And so sometimes we don't have access to all of that information. So it might be explained as manmade or even natural phenomena. We mentioned the planet Venus. There's things like lenticular clouds, flocks of birds that - You're telling me the space station, you've seen the space and that looks like- and it looks like it's traveling. It's in a straight line. And if you don't know and because of evolution people look up and go That's what happens. Where we can unpick it though, is there is a small unquestionable evidence of them doing what I would describe That is, they appear, they You know, when I say something accelerates or does a right angle I mean, you would be splattered up against the walls of your craft if And it takes science You know, if you watch Star Trek and Jean-Luc Picard, you and they accelerate into warp factor five. They've got these things to stop you getting and that type of stuff. But that really is in the And it's not a matter of It, you know, this annoys people. They say, well, you can't say this because we dunno what they'll but we're basing it on what we do know, right, not what we don't know. Advanced technology, is it really gonna make from one dimension to another? I don't think so. - Yeah, and some of those things wanna get to talk on later about the sharp right angle turns. The incredible G-Force that like, is it realistic that technology in the future will overcome some of these issues A after all of these it appears like the government They're not saying this is UFOs. They're not saying this is UAPs now. But they're not saying what it is. It's just a UAP, unidentified was that right? - Unidentified anomalous phenomenon, yeah. I still think nothing has changed. Even though they're being more candid now than they were in the past, they still don't know Because at the end of the day, you are going to have to You are going to have to have alien bodies to try to determine something. And, you know, we can't lasso or get my tractor beam to haul in one of these UAPs or whatever. And despite the claims of there are none. Okay, it's as simple as that. But they do leave marks, they've been known to Okay. Just like the movie &quot;Close Encounters of a Third Kind&quot;, lights can go off, strange magnetic forces appear. So they certainly can affect our environment and our realm. And that's why I say there is And you know, anybody who's will tell you that they are real. But how do you investigate something that appears and disappears? And that's the problem the But I suspect we're facing a and we'll probably talk as the more supernatural aspects of them. But most of the world doesn't recognize the supernatural realm. - Of course, we live in All of our science, all we are based off naturalism. So we only investigate the natural world. And that's what I was, until I had an experience, my experience of an alien I just believed in the So I know like the way we So how are you gonna get a conclusion about some of these things that seem to defy laws of science, laws of logic, and how from a naturalistic mindset? And I guess is that's the problem, right? - Yeah, when when we first there was something called the And that's the view that real aliens are traveling in real from a galaxy far far away. To be honest, after all most people don't believe that, The alternative is something called the inter-dimensional hypothesis. - Can you just tell us, first I really want to hear that Why has that hypothesis, the previous one, the extraterrestrial hypothesis, why is that one being put aside now? - Yeah, and that's because because of what we do know. I'm just gonna quote some stats for you. - Yeah, go on. and I had a whole chapter whether these science So I want you to imagine the space shuttle and the Satin five rockets Now, prior to the new Falcon Heavy Rockets that Musk's developing, these are the most powerful vehicles mankind had ever produced. Just the main engines on the space shuttle can produce about 3.3 Now, at the best speed we could muster, it would take you 800,000 years to reach the next star to our which is 4.3 light years away. - It takes you 800,000 years? So think about this. That's within our own galaxy. So when you leave our galaxy, even if you could travel at 300,000 kilometers per second, it would take you 2 million years to reach the next galaxy That's Andromeda. And the next galaxy after that is 20 million light years away. If you could travel at the speed of light. So even if you could travel or 10 times the speed of light, the distances are phenomenal. And the here's the problem, you know, space is not empty. There's lots of cosmic dust. So even, even a grain of dust, if you were traveling at one that would be like 10 tons of TNT impacting on the hull of your spaceship. So we see in Star Trek, they have these deflector arrays or force fields to repel that. But you've gotta use the same amount of equally opposing force to deflect that object. So that's only adding to the you know, for your ship. - And so a lot of people anywhere near the speed of you know, it's these particles that have zero weight like photons or things like this at or near the speed of light. Because as you know, your mass increases as you go near the speed of light. It's an effective relativity. So what you're talking about is two, was it two and a half is to the nearest galaxy? - 2 million light years yeah, Andromeda. - So even if we were to travel at a 10th of the speed of so the point here is that I think you're making is that if there was it couldn't visit us. It doesn't have the time to visit us. - Not in spacecraft. . And that's, you know, where the interdimensional hypothesis. G-force is another one you mentioned. - Oh, we didn't talk about that. Yeah, yeah, go on. - Because acceleration is, you know, when, as I say on Star Trek, and they jump into warp factor six, I mean, could you imagine - You'd be splattered. And that's why they invent these things called inertial dampeners to avoid you. But again, it's the Now it's fun. I love science fiction, and some science fiction Arthur C. Clark developed the, you know, invented the idea of you know, carry radio waves to, you know, get over the line of sight problem due to the curvature of the earth. So some of it can be real, but not this type of stuff, you know. And again, we've talked about impacts, et cetera, and radiation. Because radiation, even manned missions to Mars, we're talking several years in duration, the effect of weightlessness, the effect of cosmic radiation So and you mentioned as your mass increases. - Speed increases. your mass increases and there's good experimental from what we do know that as you approach the speed of light, your mass becomes infinite. So you've gotta use an to try to get to the speed of light. What does all that mean? Basically it's impossible. - Yeah these are not these are laws of physics barriers. Laws of nature's barriers. So your point here is that the whilst it was good for a while, if we imagined we could overcome some technological barriers, now we've become more sure We understand it's impossible. Even if you had technology, which we've never even dreamed about, the laws of nature prevent alien species from other galaxies visiting us. - Exactly. So remember we talked in the last a hundred years, that's when most of the understanding about the enormous size of our True. So the extraterrestrial hypothesis was probably more prevalent when we didn't realize how far these distant star systems are. Now that we know how far they are, yes it's impossible. And this is just not, and well, you know, he's a debunker, basically scientists and that if we are being visited, we're clearly not being visited by aliens that are living millions - And I was just thinking the last a hundred years is, as we've gained our it was the early 20th came up with special and in 1905, 19 15. So that's very interesting So what we're coming to is now, it's not an extraterrestrial hypothesis. That's not you as a Christian, Gary, saying it's not extraterrestrials. That is the scientific explanation, that's the government explanation. They're coming up and now it's the interdimensional hypothesis. - Yeah well we talked about if they don't believe in the supernatural and naturalism is really, you know, their worldview, how are They're gonna say, well, It can't be supernatural. It's gotta be coming to us from Hence the interdimensional hypothesis. And again, the reason I'm saying that is because it's actually When you see something as I say, they sometimes these at incredible speeds and become one object and then go off in another direction. And when we say we're seeing these, these are just not eyewitnesses. They've been tracked on This is what I mean by military pilots and air force officers. And then of course we'll talk about people that are having experiences, Well, how are the aliens and disappearing alleged So the interdimensional hypothesis, even in the years I've has been a change from the ETH to the IDH, the interdimensional hypothesis. That's now really the most popular views. And what plays into that, from what I would call a is the ideas of multiverse And there might be different or different levels in the So what's happening now, they're resorting to - Yeah, interesting, so and I just wanna establish or just confirm again that you're saying we have actually seen The US military have seen this on radar, have seen things that by something that's That things that define have seen it on actual radar. - They've released footage. That was the shocking thing when they've always had in the last couple years they've released footage of navy pilots trying to chase these things and they can't keep up with them. And you can, they've and the pilots just going crazy trying to explain what he's And then recently one besides a navy ship and just disappeared. You know, flew in at incredible speed. So again, there, how can you fly a craft and impact into the ocean without, you know, smashing So you can understand from this is very, very puzzling. But I honestly believe I really do think this is one area where we have an advantage Because the Bible's always talked about there being another realm or dimension, and they're looking at the evidence of what they call UAPs. And they're coming to a conclusion it's coming from another - Yeah, and as you - They're using unknowns They have unknowns and they're to explain what is unknown. - Because some of these physics theories, like the multiverse and things like this, they're really, there's not, we don't have physical evidence - Not a shred. to explain phenomenon that don't have naturalistic explanations. So it's a funny loop that loops back. So Gary was saying that although 90% can be explained physically, there's this remaining 10% and some of them we just don't know. But there are definitely some in that 10% that have no naturalistic explanation. Now I wanna move on to Now we said in the, going 20 million in the US senior UFOs, 4 million for the alien What's happening to people when they experience an alien reduction? Because I just wanna preface it with this, in your movie you have a clip of a, and I think I mentioned him earlier, a Harvard trained psychiatrist. I think he was the head of is that right? - Trained psychiatrist. And he is, appears on - On Oprah. And he was also interviewed you know, based on his research asking him what his discoveries were. - But the thing that was when he said, when people are having the he said the people he interviewed, They didn't have any mental problems. And the thing that he was they were having And so he said, what? And I saw him on the show saying, well what is this phenomenon? How do we explain, like it's a real phenomenon It's a real psychological phenomenon. How do I explain it? - Kind of thing. So we've kind of said the US government and polls in America, let me just say this is So all the governments know about it, but it's the US government at the moment that's actually kind of and have opened a But you are talking about So he was not a believer, And he'd heard the story about people claiming alleged And there was a UFO He appears in our movie what alleged abductees. He was hypnotizing them. So he was regressing their trying to account for what was happening during this missing when they saw an alien and they wake up hours later So he thought, oh, this is an interesting But then when he followed he found they all had We have footage of him on He says, it's not fantasy, it's not lies. These people are suffering genuine post-traumatic stress symptoms. And the only thing that from a medical point of Wow. So he ended up and one of the world's leading researchers in this, and he wrote a And so in one of the interviews he's being interviewed And this blew me away, because the best of my He's researching this from, again, from his naturalistic worldview. But he basically makes the that we are dealing with spirit beings. I'm paraphrasing, coming to us from another realm or dimension. Why? based upon the actual evidence of what is happening to these people. And this is right in the - Yeah and I would like - Well as I said, the another dimension. And we've had visitors and they're called angels. Good ones, bad ones. And the cultural view of angels is these ethereal spirit beings with fairy wings and whatever. But show me in the Bible whether They appear physically, you know, three sit down with Abraham and eat food. Does that mean they have physical bodies and stomach organs and digestive tracks? But here's the other thing, Think about God's bringing plagues against Recently, CMI creation minister, as we conducted a tour of Israel and we saw some of the there of the Assyrians. And the story says that when they tried to attack Jerusalem, one of God's angels killed 187,000 Assyrian soldiers in one night. So very, very powerful beings. What we see in the UFO phenomenon is very, very powerful But when I said there's well God's angels always bring a message that is consistent with what But the bad guys, what's their job? They're there to deceive and deflect and to take people's eyes And one of the key points or alleged abductees, in fact we don't like to call them that because to be frank, they're not being abducted by aliens. They're experiencing something, so we call them experiences, And John Mack, a non-Christian researcher, found this out and he says, and some of them are ongoing and multiple, they become evangelists for their aliens. 'Cause their told stories like the aliens are the creators, or we've been overseeing human evolution for millions of years and I've chosen you and you are special and Now we just need to think If you don't know Jesus, you've never been in a church. A little gray entity stands at the bottom of your bed and says you are special. - And you've not heard that before because you've not been in church. So you've not heard God - So that's a life-changing - Yeah, 'cause I remember, when God says they're special, that's an incredible But if you've not had that - And so that's why And here's the thing, you had that experience last night. It's not exactly something you can go to the office tomorrow and talk around the water lemme say what happened to me last night. I was abducted, I was taken off So what happens is the drives them in deeper. And then if they have another experience, a similar encounter, again, it's the people that are And we haven't spoken much about that, that become their allies. Well, you are the only because you're the one And I can't tell anybody else. And Mac and others found out that generally these experiences That's why he mentioned post-traumatic stress syndrome, et cetera. So they're abused, they're sometimes sexually abused and assaulted. It's very, very sorted what And unfortunately, but realistically, you know, unlike many of my 'cause I specialize in this, I've had these people come to me and tell me all of these details, all of these things that And just like Mac, you can that is going on with people. But as I say, the harmful, harmful, deleterious, and they'll say, well, it wasn't for me. You know, maybe I had it and it was good, but I guarantee gimme 10 minutes with them and I can point out where - These experiences, the people that are they often say that it's good and having something good happen to them. And the aliens, as you mentioned, the they may be more advanced and they're the ones that are and they're almost like the gods. And it seems, would you say it's kind of, it also fills a spiritual void as we're becoming less - In fact it, yeah. You don't have to take my word for it. Ufologists have said that ufology has become Because guess what, when we the key question to our where did I come from? Am I evolved? Am I a cosmic accident? Or did God create me? And and based upon that first question, you'll determine your And also what happens to us when we die. But the alien phenomenon can 'cause if aliens are your creators, they're telling you what And they actually have You know, I mean that's, we could do another whole talk on that because they're gonna take and we're all gonna live And even abductees, as they'll say they've and they've met Jesus and they're all living There's this unifying kind of message, which sounds really, Because it's this message of peace. And here's the thing, because of the experience, they actually, the victims, they defend bad behavior. And this is common. I mean, take abusive You know, a wife is getting She'll often defend, you know, the person that's doing abusing. And there are terms where people get captured, they get isolated in a room and they suddenly become cause that's a medical phenomenon - Gary, you said that we have the answer. We have the answer as Christians. So I guess we have the What is the answer? We've established this happens to many people. What's the answer? - Well, let me just repeat something too. It's not a case where well, you're a Christian, you're just trying to shoehorn it within your Christian worldview, we've established that the appearances of UFOs themselves seem We're gonna talk about the experience and have done about abductees and it being spiritual in nature. And why are they giving messages to people about Jesus Christ? Why are they obsessed with him? This supposedly mythical religious figure. Why do aliens travel millions of light years I'm gonna mention that, but I wanna read out some With some notes here. Because I said the there's another realm or dimension. The most famous visitor we ever had from that other realm was the Lord Jesus. And he stood before and he said, my kingdom My kingdom is from another place. The nature of angels we've discussed, there are good ones, there are bad ones. People record, their Bible And the Bible also tells us There are multiple warnings in scripture not to seek after the We talked about the change how their worldviews are changed to a very, very more Like the Bible is really just an old kind of fuddy duddy book. Jesus says in Matthew 24, &quot;False Christ and false and perform great signs and miracles to deceive even the elect&quot;. If that were possible. Who's the elect? That's So there's a warning to be careful of some of these signs and wonders. Now, I'm not saying that uniquely applies to the UFO phenomenon, but Because if you are seeing and you don't have a Christian worldview and you come up with ideas then you think that aliens are visiting us and they're our creators. But here's the real kicker, Scott. There's over 400 cases, you know, that I'm aware of with where these abductions have been halted by people calling on the Now, I don't want to diminish but you know, I've had comments. Well, you you wear an aluminum hat or aluminum hat and and you know, that type of stuff, no. And in the movie we have the who were having these And in the moment of terror, they recalled or called out to their childhood memories of who Jesus was. And the instant his name was - So why do these aliens respond to Jesus? - Exactly, exactly. And that indicates the spiritual So the evidence is spiritual. And then when we get to deceptive messages are But then when they're that is incredibly powerful. And again, when I'm saying that we've now got hundreds of testimonies, and I can't mention names, but I know people in the higher that actually readily acknowledge this. But because of their positions, they can't actually come forward So in some respects, this is One of the guys, my colleagues, my collaborators who worked on this, when he found this out, he wasn't a Christian at the time. And he kind of said, well, okay, what is it about Jesus that And he rang up his colleagues in MUFON and said, look, we think We've got these testimonies of people in the moment They said a prayer. They sang a psalm, a hymn, something Christian that was spiritual. And the abductions stopped. And you know, so what is it about Jesus that they don't like? And he found out that already knew about it. And their simple answer was, okay, so aliens don't - So this is non-Christians in MUFON. Can you just say what is MUFON? - MUFON is mutual UFO network. It's the world's largest here in the US. And they have collaborators, thousands all over the - So non-Christian organization. And they already recognize that aliens respond to the name Jesus. - But because they don't possess a Christian worldview, it's ignored. And that's why I said, I the evidence fits what we're seeing. And then the personal testimonies of people calling on the name of Christ. Exactly why, as one of them said, and I said earlier, if he's supposedly a why do these aliens fear his name? - So Gary, as Christians, What are these things that are appearing? - Yeah, of course. We shouldn't assume everyone Well we mentioned good angels, So Satan is a fallen angel. You know, he can read just like you and I, and he knows what his fate is. And we tend to overcomplicate things I think sometimes as Christians&gt; He knows what his fate is, he knows who God is. he knows that he's creator, So the only mechanism he has left to him is to take down as many of those whom God loves with him as he can. Now, whether it's the UFO phenomenon, false religions, people and all sorts of other psychic phenomena, there are all ways that he can keep people And when you align that also with physical experiences it becomes very, very powerful. And I found in fact, Scott, it's very, very difficult to try to minister to these people. We have the answer, but sometimes we want to kind of grab them and shoehorn it down their throat. - I guess just to summarize what you're saying there is these are fallen angels So just so we've got that clear. Now we know what they are, we know what the Bible says about them. Can you give some advice, Gary, to people that might be listening who Or they have other people they How do we go about helping these people? And obviously we've got the truth, we can tell 'em the truth, but I believe you've got some - Yeah, we can tell them the truth, but I have to be honest, it's Where I think you can unpick it is in the stories that they're told. There's a massive inconsistency. You know, a person over here says, aliens are our creators, and and aliens are our creators and they come from Sirius or Orion. They can't all be telling the truth. And I had an experience, in just after the book was released, I was on coast to coast originally from Art Bell in its day. It was the most listened And they listen, they discuss Bigfoot and all sorts of strange psychic and spiritual weird phenomena. And I confess, this was like I was doing about aliens. And I was interviewed in the nationally broadcast across the US, and then we had an hour of talk back. And the first guy came on and he said, Mr. Bates, he said, I've been an experiencer and this happened to me and that happened. And I've thought, you know, he's just loading the and tell me, I dunno And I say, I'll never forget it. 'Cause he turned around, He said, how come I never saw this before? He said, they don't love me. He said, they treat me horribly. He said, why did I listen to them? And I tell you that was to this day, still one of the most powerful testimonies that just someone being able just instead of being drawn deeper, just stand back and have a look at what's being done to you, have a look at what you're I've kind of developed this little saying that I think there's if we encounter someone And we need to listen, we need to listen, and we need to listen. Because if we automatically deny and say, lemme tell you They've had an experience, So we need to empathize with them and say, okay, tell me what happens. And this has happened Even in churches people come along, they see the sign that I'm speaking and they'll come up and So they are wanting answers but you've gotta kind of lead them along and let them find out for themselves. So first part is tell And then you try to pick within that story the inconsistencies, you know, in the story that, well, they're really and they're benefiting you and they've chosen you, et cetera. Because once they start to that's the only time And then of course, once you can talk to them. Well, have you heard about the fact that these experiences are Who's Jesus? I've encountered that&lt; Non-Christian teenagers, So you have to explain Well, he's the creator. He's God manifest in the flesh. So if these are really fallen angels that were created by him, he's the only one that He's the only way you're gonna put a stop to these experiences. - Wow it's incredible that unique ministry opportunities. When I say ministry, ministering through talking about aliens, never would've thought - And I never would've When I started writing that book, I seen, talk to people no disrespect, but some of (laughing) 'cause it's, you just okay, I'll talk about aliens and then I'll end up getting a teenager to ask me who is Jesus. And there's a great opportunity and that thanks for sharing about on the radio coast to coast, that man. And that was the first First ever interview I'd - . I wonder if that was meant to be an encouragement for you to That it's actually a, an we need to be more aware of and we need people like yourself doing the research and this is the reality of what's going on and this is how you - well, I think it's important because we gave some where people had had experience that they'd gone to the church. Now and we're not here But they sometimes met pastors or Christians who had no So they come up with answers. Well, you're having a psychological, or you know, episode or something, or you're being afflicted by a demon. But to the person having the experience, it's like, no, hang on. That's not right, I know And so then the next thing, they'll go off to one of of which there's thousands and they get embraced because they say, we've got people just like you. Come on in welcome, and again, they get driven deeper So that's why so important for the first time, just to listen, you know, by affirming their experience, you're not affirming the People can have a real experience, but it can also be a deceptive experience. - So Gary, we've talked about and that actually as Christians, we can sympathize with them. We can act because we believe and we believe they're whereas someone that's is not able to have the And so we can come in with empathy, but not only that, we do have the answer. And you've had some incredible times of being able to minister to these people and then even seeing the truth. And you've managed to talk Now, there might be another who are experiencing at non-Christian, but they're experiencing, what would you say to those people? - Well, Scott, the first grieves me that people are And it might be really you and I speak and say, That somehow it invalidates it. That's not what I'm saying, you know, because I've met them, et cetera. But if you are watching and you've had these types of experiences, what I would say to you is if you have been watching all along that we're talking naturalism evolution, can't give an account The Bible has always said God himself is a spirit. And when Jesus came, he came to save us from these types and forms of deceptions. And the only reason he he is the creator. What tends to happen, we look up in the night sky and we wonder, I wonder But Psalm 19:1 says, &quot;The heavens declare the glory of God&quot;. And I would like to suggest you think about the one who made it all, because only the creator - Amen. Thank you, Gary. That's amazing. And thank you so much for being here. Thank you for doing the research on behalf of the people that I just thank you for putting your time. I know you've put blood, and as you say, if people there's the movie Alien Intrusion. And the book. - Yeah, the book is &quot;Alien Intrusion UFOs and and the movies &quot;Alien Intrusion: and they're both available As DVD, as a book, and you can even stream them and ebook also. - Brilliant, thanks so much, Gary. This has been really valuable No matter whether we're an experiencer or we've not heard about I think there's a lot - Thank you. - If you enjoyed my interview with Gary, then I've got a follow-up In this interview, I ask asked questions and but I only give him 60 seconds What's the story with Area 51? What's the deal with crop circles? How does someone stop an We reckon this is gonna be useful because a lot of people and listen to a long answer, but you likely have friends and family who you want to give answers to. And so if that's you, click or in the description, we're gonna give you access to this resource as well (gentle music)