When Dallas, Kane, and Lambert they are not only led into a foreboding alien of one of the greatest dark surrealist This whole sequence is like stepping and along with its importance in the mystery that is created heightens So let's go through the sequence from beginning to end and look at how everything was What happened to Kane? We have to get him to the infirmary right away. What kind of thing? I need a clear definition. Early on in the production, before Alien screenwriter and visual design consultant colleague from Alejandro Jodorowsky's failed begin making concept art for Alien while bring on Giger-another Dune contributor-to O'Bannon showed Scott Giger's Necronomicon on-board to turn this painting Cobb was tasked with designing the spaceships, the alien spaceship-what would be called Cobb's logical brain was so good at designing designing something truly alien in the way "All these different things [Cobb] was decided to have him take a crack at the derelict an irrational shape he got very disturbed. with convincing technology for a flying saucer So, O'Bannon had Cris Foss try a version O'Bannon said, "I conceptualized the derelict as bizarre as hell, but not morbid. Chris Foss did a favorite. It was a beautiful bronzed lobster-like very odd-looking, very difficult to figure But after seeing more of Giger's could play up a contrast of styles by having and the surrealist Giger would not just Giger was responsible for the alien technology, itself (Mediascene #35 18). The clashing styles of and what we get is not just a Giger monster, On July 26th, production moved from Stage the same stage that one of Scott's favorite interaction with an alien artifact-the Stage H would house the completed derelict leg of the Nostromo on the other, with the I can't see a gosh darn thing. I like griping. Giger worked with production design the planet surface and the derelict ship, using Giger's biomechanical style as the You can see how the landscape horrifying mishmash of flesh, bones and machines. Because of budget constraints, Giger small version of the landscape for the real bones, and mechanical Scott said, "Studio landscape is bloody plaster rocks and saying. 'Christ. this had wanted to shoot the alien landscape on but they couldn't afford it (Cinefex 001 64). Of course, he would get to do this Jordan, and other visually-striking locations. Giger's three-dimensional design was split set (Cinefex 001 64). These large sets were it with wire netting and plaster-soaked hollow (Giger's Alien). Large Tubing was Ken Hill and his team painted the backdrop with Before shooting the Nostromo crew on the planet, to fill it out the expanse (Rinzler 197). low-grade diesel fuel, vaporized, and They were filming in England and some up to code in the US, for example, in water-based (The Beast Within). Some of at the heights of Stage H from all of To create the dust storm, they used particles all over the set (Rinzler 197). but is very lightweight and they went through "two The planet was lit with a couple of searchlights, Light" (ASC Vanlint). Since there wasn't time and have liked, Scott used dark lighting and smoke to Production designer Michael Seymour said, collection of shapes...and unless one saw it looked like exactly that. Obviously, the last thing you want is a set that Here you can see a good view of storm were added. The black part here This is the painting of the planets we When the dust storm finally passes, the that is eerily quiet and after trekking through Ash, can you see this? Yes, I can. I've never seen anything like it. Interestingly, very early on Scott had French named Moebius try designing the derelict, which Scott liked for its "slightly but it simply wasn't strange or un-earthly This design even made its way Of course, Giger would later be surrealism to the derelict spaceship Ridley Scott: "The Derelict is a flying machine something at some point or other, I think be like nothing we expect. I wanted to immediate slightly Gothic revulsion. It's but there's something very worrying Giger said, "&quot;Ridley asked me if I could design how do you do that? I thought maybe it might like a plant - but I didn't know exactly On March 5th, 1978, Giger showed Scott these idea that he made "early one morning when [he] Giger continues saying, " It ended up like an all over it, but it wasn't really anything I had my airbrush, which is not uncommon for me. Often I and let the painting flow out spontaneously O'Bannon thought that the ship didn't look the ensuing argument, Giger kept quiet knowing But on July 19th, Producer Gordon Carroll, told Giger to redesign it because he said wouldn't be immediately clear that it was a downed O'Bannon had something to do with this sudden more technical would lose what makes it alien a boring-looking spacecraft, which Giger writing in his diary, "[Promising] to my work. This is an occasion when time Scott said, &quot;There's a great tendency in this up with. As a result, people often just work here was a totally alien-looking spacecraft. I of lights on it and stuff like that. I figured either that, or extraordinarily familiar and drawing was just a knockout. I took one look at it see it though, so I had to keep digging my heels don't screw about with it.' You know, Giger is you have to recognize it and just So the Derelict design came out which is pretty much the opposite you haven't seen that episode, It really makes you think what the Derelict might look like if Giger had been So the design was in, but Giger's other-worldly difficult to build (Cinefex 001 51). Special "As a two-dimensional painting it looked could actually build it in three dimensions... about some possible modifications. Then he we produced another polystyrene shape which Even though photos of the model special effects guys Jon Sorenson, tons of great pictures, which is The derelict miniature was built by Peter Voysey, working closely with Giger ('Behind the They would carve the shape out of polystyrene, it in plasticine, which is like a soft putty. and pieces from model kits to give it a realistic it was great because it wouldn't melt under the so they could make adjustments whenever The model of the derelict wound up being about 4 took up a whole room ('Behind the Alien Forms,' skulls, were also among the materials used to Scott had obviously been really busy so when he finally arrived to the soundstage models and saw everything completed, he became it would be difficult to communicate the scale stared at the model for a while and then had an time and Scott asked the crew if anyone had one. Scott: "So I simply got a domestic set like this-putting that in the a TV monitor and filmed off the monitor. So suddenly it has this massive scale and that And this is great, once they had the Derelict one-and-a-half inch tall puppets of Kane, Lambert, with little helmet lights to get some wide shots The crew finally arrives at the Derelict ship Only this small portion of the derelict exterior egg-shaped doorways- or, let's face it, all)-were made out of wood and plaster a hundred feet across and thirty feet high There was going to be another shot-they had filmed ship, but it was cut ('Behind the Alien Forms,' would have looked like-the full scale set would O'Bannon's original script had the in which the eggs would be found. Early budget constraints and the eggs would The idea was that the alien would be incorporated civilization. O'Bannon said, "We are dealing appears to be a visitor from elsewhere; the they can find no entrance; any entrance sands of time. So Kane uses his climbing where he finds an open shaft going Back in the very very early days of the concept art for Alien from Giger, these were but one of the paintings was Giger's be called the Egg Silo (Giger's Alien Book). side-I believe this idea was taken from Giger's but if you're keeping track, this In this concept by Chris Foss, we can see Kane In this concept by Ron Cobb, we see of an ancient culture surrounding the alien. It is at this point in O'Bannon's original Nostromo translate the alien signal and it But this was all scrapped and it was now Giger's The idea for the Derelict was that a famous ship that was found drifting with disappeared (The Beast Within). The style would When Giger was a child, he had what he called at a dark shaft between two nearby buildings. He and endless corridors that influenced many of decided to incorporate this fear I can't see the end of what looks like a long- gone this far, we must go on. Dallas, Kane, and Lambert make their way down a Alien lifeform- As I mentioned in a previous episode, spaceship likely came from a 1966 movie investigating a distress signal, find a crashed But, a special thanks to Andy there is something else similar to the Star Trek Animated Series from 1973. The That's the source of the radio emission! ...and then comes across a They explore it to find that it has been ago and then find that the signal translates the ship were carrying a dangerous life form decided to destroy the ship themselves rather The Enterprise crew then escapes back to the ship, but they accidentally bring But despite where the idea came from, the audience would need to see the Before Scott was hired, O'Bannon had Ron Cobb O'Bannon said, "For the inside, Ron later called the space jockey - and it was and four or five eye sockets. Very small I expected it to look horrible when you first see bit closer you'd discover that it didn't have the things that are characteristic of a carnivore some totally nonviolent herbivorous creature Giger said, &quot;From the script I knew he but that was all" (Cinefex 001 64). Scott book of art and told Giger to base the Scott said, "I wanted a fossil, almost, one which off and the chair, on which he died, begins. frozen in death to the weapon he kind of gargoyle-like and spooky" Giger said, "The creature we finally the extent that he has physically his seat - he's integrated totally into the Aside from the chair and creature around the space jockey was a problem large and the production was already of the studio executives wanted it Talking about the Space Jockey, Scott said, "We weeks behind schedule - which I don't think was So at one point. it was going to be ditched; but it in there as sort of a central element in the find nothing - just a hole in the floor - was Scott, producer Gordon Carroll, and associate producer Ivor Powell fought Production designer Michael Seymour came up with the creature on a turntable in the center so Giger also designed the wall to the but since it was a repeating pattern nearly hundred sections that make To make the Space Jockey itself, Giger and detail into clay on top of a basic plaster form The team then covered the whole thing in a mold for a resin casting (Giger's Alien). made using carvings from foam similar to how For the big reveal, they were so up filming the wide shot of the Space Giger: "Sometimes it also happened that with the Space Jockey, that it's only half painted day. I was crazy. It was a night working Giger begged Scott not to shoot but Scott assured him that they would print thought that first shot looked terrible it appear that the room was much brighter than Similar to this shot of the crew members Scott had his two young sons and I space suits positioned next to the Space in essence, double the size of the By the time they filmed the close-ups though, head and then painted it (Cinefex 001 64). To a "thin coat of latex rubber" and rubbed it They find a strange hole in the the acid blood of whatever popped Bottomless pit. Kane repels down into it. Kane, listen, don't unhook yourself under any circumstances and be out of there Yes, Dallas. Can you see anything? The egg chamber went through several wanted the egg chamber to contain were eventually able to convince him that and the idea was dropped (Rinzler 188). Giger interior to resemble a womb, but this was When Giger designed his version of the temple with a concept for the interior, which more or the final film (Giger's Alien book). You can see which looks more like the Space Jockey they actually shot the Egg Chamber and the set-they just removed the Space Jockey and its They extended the dividers in we can see Giger's original concept Scott's original idea that they was to have Kane repel down a long tube through the membrane and lowers into a on his suit would turn on and illuminate But even though they couldn't do the membrane that Kane would pass through that would trigger a "We finally settled on a laser which was eggs and give us this sheet of blue light. but we didn't have time. As it was, we and then another day and a half to shoot In a separate interview, Scott said, for some other life form to come near. It's There's a layer of mist covering Another biological presence enables it to move on and develop. It truly does I admire its purity. And almost like a weapon, a product of biological, rather than bacteriological One of the more famous bits of trivia is rock band The Who, who happened to be filming next to where the egg chamber scene was being powerful and was shining on a mirror that giving the appearance of being flat when the Kane slips and falls through the laser and If I'm being honest, the slip and but, you know, they only had a bloody day They did a shot with the eggs hanging upside down, so that it looked like liquid was Giger: "I did a kind of like a, for organic-like tentacles. The eggs had been made in that you could see inside, the movements of the Scott performed this bit with his hands himself. These eggs don't look like Giger's original design that looked like this. And there was a problem. When they were discussing the egg concept, Gordon Carroll reminded him what the head looks like and everyone in the meeting So to appease Scott, they changed it so open with four corners-kind of like Kane slowly peers into the egg. The inside of the egg was filled with got from a local slaughterhouse and part is the lining of a cow's stomach of verisimilitude that you just can't just look at the other versions from Suddenly a Facehugger pops out... Scott said, &quot;I wanted it to happen it...like a snake when it attacks. I wanted absolutely lethal. That's the whole reality of a we placed an explosive charge inside the pig's intestines - connected to an airline the opening. Then we laid Nottingham lace around we hit the air at the same time and the Going through the individual raw shots, a shot of it piercing the glass of The facehugger jumping out was where they did the models (Cinefex 001 67). For one of the shots, a guy wore the Facehugger then he quickly pulled his hand back into the egg On the next episode, we'll take a deep dive I talked only about the Giger-designed aspects element in this scene that wasn't designed head on over to Patreon, you can watch Suits. It's just a dollar and it will go into the