- For years I have been that the universe must be But what I'm about to tell The typical argument for optimism leans on the remarkable to have emerged on the The most indisputable evidence for this comes from microfossils, which we can perform radiometric dating. This is the gold standard right now. In 2006, William Schopf of a collection of such fossils found in the Apex chert with the oldest of them dated to a staggering three and A decade later, this record was beaten by Alan Nutman and colleagues who found fossilized bacterial mats known as stromatolites and dated them to 3.7 billion years ago. For context, the earth formed just over 4.5 billion years ago, and soon after was almost obliterated in a collision with a Mars-sized planet that formed the moon. That sterilizing impact for life's window of opportunity, but we can reasonably squeeze by noting that when it was an absolute hellhole and under continuous bombardment. Since all life on earth the earliest evidence for oceans provides perhaps a better starting point. By studying ancient minerals Simon Wilde and colleagues evidence for the first ocean at around 4.4 billion years ago. So on our timeline of Earth's chronology, we can see that indeed the fossil evidence appears relatively soon become suitable for life in the 4.4 billion year history of a habital earth thus far, life appears within the It's easy to grab onto those numbers and assume that therefore Indeed, in a commentary to Nutman's original Abigail AlLwood commented that it shows that &quot;Life is not a fussy, but this is all old news by now and many of you know that I have not bought when confronted with those same numbers. But why? It really all comes down of selection effect. On our timeline, it seems at least 3.7 billion years to go from the earliest forms of life to a technological civilization, as in us. Let's assume for the It typically takes 3.7 billion years for all of that evolutionary So if life started then the earliest intelligence would've been 700 million years ago. Now, let's imagine progressively As we shift along, we'll As seasons like the fall remind us though, the earth will not Something has gotta give, and in a classic paper they calculate the death date at 900 million years from now. This is not the sun going giant but rather another effect that I'll discuss later in the video. The real takeaway here is that the latest point at which a civilization would then be 900 million years from now. And if evolution takes 3.7 then life would have to start no later than 2.8 billion years ago. Any later than that, and there simply would for us to emerge. What this means is that for us to be here and be talking about it. It's quite possible that around sunlike stars where the emergence of life takes much longer to and that's all well and good, but we could never There simply wouldn't In this scenario then, life's early start is not It is a necessity to have very existence. This is why Allwood's conclusion because it misses this also known as the weak Now, in all fairness, I don't know that the evolution timescale is 3.7 billion years all of the time. Let's imagine it was in fact much shorter, say 900 million years. Now, the latest that we could start life and still have time for us to evolve would be today. In this scenario, the fact that life started at the very beginning of this long interval is interesting. In this case, I would agree with Allwood. Yes, life's early start indeed However, it has to be said that this scenario would be pretty odd. It would mean that on most way faster than it did here on the earth. Hopefully, the real point is that when we try to make inferences about how easy a biogenesis is, that's the spontaneous emergence of life. It cannot be divorced from assumptions about how long evolution takes. In statistical parlance, we would say that the two of them are co-variant. A few years back I wrote a paper that applied a rigorous Bayesian framework to this whole question I won't discuss how I but rather I'll direct you to my previous video on the topic. It's actually one of the not only accounting for but also employing some to yield a result which that one might make And that's a technique known But here's the punchline is that we can express the odds ratio between two hypotheses with this simple formula. In the first hypothesis, life a quick and easy process. If we reran the tape, it would almost certainly pop up again. In the second, abiogenesis Here, the timescale to expect a success is much greater than the age of the earth itself, and thus on most planets Of course, given enough it will occur in some places and naturally we would live where it did, else we wouldn't Again, this is the weak So if we take the timeline and plug in the numbers to my equation, it suggests that the easy life scenario is 3.8 times more likely That might sound promising, but it's actually not what we would normally consider Usually, with these odds factors, we would only consider before we would really In the news, just like science, it's often hard to know what to believe, but that's where today's sponsor, Ground News is a website and app that pulls from around the world. Every story shows you all the with a visual breakdown reliability, and ownership There was a story in here this week related to today's video, reporting on how a giant meteorite strike 3 billion years ago could have actually kickstarted evolution by stirring up deep water iron and releasing phosphorus On ground News, you can see how different partisan news So here we have fairly even coverage. You can also see that bias distribution and the publication ownership details, giving you a clearer picture of where your news is coming from. Ground News is the brain child of former NASA engineer Harleen Kaur and like me, they firmly believe and exposing yourself to other views. For example, a killer feature which highlights stories that the left or right wing papers. This is the best way to clear, transparent, and unbiased. So head to ground.news/coolworlds to save up to 40% off the that I use. Once again, that's ground.news/coolworlds. Now, back to the video. So 3.8 to one odds in favor of easy life is encouraging, but we can actually find some that changes things, but this evidence will not be In 2015, Elizabeth Bell and colleagues suggested that there is evidence for life in 4.1 billion Although they don't see fossils, they can measure the various ratios of elemental isotope abundances, and in particular, the ratio was found to be anomalously high. Now, both isotopes appear in nature, but living creatures simply because it's lighter If we accept this evidence, it shifts the odds from 3.8 to 8.7, so pretty good, but still not crossing we'd normally want to see. Now since my last video on this, there have been two studies the odds and also a third study published, which doesn't actually change the odds, but it's still really So let's start with that one. A provocative 2019 paper by Gavin Schmidt and Adam Frank, who by the way are both suggested that humanity might not be the first technological civilization on this planet, as my analysis certainly assumed. They argued that a civilization could have emerged during That's 350 million years ago, and really we just wouldn't know about it. Now, I should really do a but fortunately for the it actually doesn't really change things. You see, that time interval on the scale of earth's entire history, and so the numbers come In fact, you can even push to the emergence of which surely is a prerequisite and it still doesn't change anything. So fortunately we just don't have to worry too much about this for today's video, but a resort which is another revision to for life on earth. But this time coming In a tour de force paper by Edmund Moody and colleagues published they claim to be able to date the age of what is known as LUCA, the lowest universal common ancestor. All life on earth shares evidenced by our universal genetic codes, machinery for protein synthesis, and shared chirality of of 20 amino acids. But how long ago did this LUCA live? The authors perform a time analysis of pre-LUCA gene duplicates, and they time calibrate them using microbial fossils Now, this is definitely not my expertise, but the result is critical for our story because it gives a date This is really squeezing life Plugging in their result, the odds shift to 13 to one in favor of an easy abiogenesis scenario. For the first time, we can formally say that we have strong evidence but this is just one of The other one applies of earth's chronology, the For more details on why check out my video, &quot;Watching the End of the World,&quot; a personal favorite, but for the sake of this video, let's just do a quick summary. As the sun ages, it becomes Now, this is nowhere near enough to explain the recent climate change, but over a billion to a 10% increase in luminosity. As more energy is dumped the rate of evaporation, and Rain dissolves carbon forming a weak carbonic acid, and that acid then reacts to form solid carbonate, essentially the weathering process. So this means that CO2 is over very long timescales and is in fact one possible if we can figure out how to speed it up. But the very, very long-term consequence is that as the sun heats up, the CO2 is depleted from the atmosphere. Now obviously, too much but too little is a problem too, and in a classic paper they predict that it would drop below 10 PPM in 900 That's a level that they that photosynthesis would be impossible, causing most of the biosphere This end date, 900 million years from now, is way before the sun swells into a giant. And it obviously affects a critical parameter in my own equation. So when I saw a new paper by RJ Graham that greatly revised this estimate, I was very curious to see what they found. RJ highlights that since that's over three decades For example, in the original paper, the authors assumed a strong dependency between the rate of weathering but since then, a bunch of work indicates a much weaker effect. Similarly, there's a good case that some plants can still photosynthesize at levels below 10 parts per million CO2, especially C4 plants, which have a CO2 concentration mechanism to really help them out. So this paper argues that 2.9 parts per million is but besides from CO2, we also need to think about temperature because of course plants can Caldeira and Casting thought that the hot limit would be but some plants actually do For example, there's a desert perennial called Tidestromia oblongifolia, which grows exponentially during summers that often In addition, although it's not a plant, cyanobacteria are at temperatures up to 74 degrees Celsius. So at least in principle, plants could adapt to a hotter climate. In the end, this new paper estimates a toasty 63 degrees Celsius, that's 145 degrees Fahrenheit, as a more viable upper limit. Putting this all together of earth's biosphere out to as much as 1.8 billion years from now. That's double the original estimate. It's an astonishing number Multicellular life, dinosaurs, humans, all of that happened within the last half a billion years. On this scale, all of that is just recent history, and there is potentially left to go for evolution to run rampant. One cannot help but be in awe of the that lie ahead for our Coming back to my equation, using Graham and our value extends the odds even It is 15 times more likely that life starts easily and slowly. Finally, the data appears to have overwhelmed the However, one concern here could truly emerge during of the earth's biosphere. I mean, could we imagine a civilization that survives on just desert shrubs only? There is probably some point before this end date where to support billions of large animals like To see this, let's try of fast to easy abiogenesis on a graph plotted against the habitable lifetime of the earth. Here you can see the odds we get with Caldeira's original lifespan and the data we had before that gives an odds ratio of 13 as well as Graham's revised lifespan, which gives us an odds ratio of 15. Now, let's repeat this calculation for a range of values, going as small as 4.4 billion years, which is essentially assuming Interestingly, no matter what we assume, the odds factor is with a minimum occurring So that would mean the latest would be 200 million years from now, but even this 11.3 number and would still be qualified Is there any way that we could One idea is that we could try invoking the Silurian Hypothesis, thereby shifting the to the Carboniderous Period. But again, this gives us an odds factor of at least 10.4. The most extreme case I can appearing during the Cambrian explosion. That's literally the very but even this has a minimum of 10.0. It is still strong evidence. So I think this is actually If LUCA's 4.2 billion of independent scrutiny, then that the easy life scenario and that is a fact which is robust to essentially any plausible change which we might try to impart Despite all of that, I still have reservations about the claim that life is common in You see, my analysis explicitly rerunning the tape, if you will, but even exoplanets with and orbits to our own will surely be very slightly different, different chemistry, different water fractions. Perhaps then, the earth is an incredibly rare example a unicorn as the rare earth Whatever our opinions about that idea, and yes, I have many opinions, we certainly cannot rule it out. The key question then is how similar to the earth does for this easy life scenario to be valid? There's probably no way using the earth alone, but instead, we will need to other worlds. I maintain that it's and forcefully agnostic in this quest, but at the same time, I cannot help but feel a wave of because it means the universe really could be teaming with simple life. And just think about the for searching for So until next time, stay thoughtful and stay curious. Thank you so much watching I hope you enjoyed it. If you did, be sure to hit Those two little actions help us out. If you can afford it and one of the best ways to help us out is to become a supporter the Cool Worlds Lab, using the link down below and up above. And that way you can actually to make videos like this and research that go into it. So please do check that out, and I'll see you in the next video.