Hi - John Hess here from Filmmaker IQ. Every time I talk about where we derive the up against the story of the adoption of Color another technical topic regarding frame rates. But that's really a missed opportunity to the way the entire world handled color television Well today that changes Ladies and Gentlemen forgotten battle ground in the history of So if you'll indulge me, let's me set this new professional medium called television. Let's go back, Not to the early 50's or 1930's. Back to November 2, 1936 at 3PM - when the service began from Alexandra Palace in London first milestone. The BBC began it all with the first regular It was only broadcast twice a day Monday through a range of 40 km... As for numbers, Britain's Radio Manufacturers sets had been manufactured from 1936 to September Three years of regular television operation Why? You see there was this little nastly bit of The last thing broadcast was a Mickey Mouse test patterns. After 6 years of bloody fighting the United the savagery of war. The BBC picked up Television service again off playing the same Mickey Mouse Cartoon. But let's be honest, Television was still If you wanted news and entertainment there of plopping down on a sofa and binging a season 1940s. And looking around, it was clear that the than television to worry about - things like But you know which major wartime participant Uncle Sam. Manufacturers on the North American continent an old economic phrase. Instead of building Sherman tanks and P-38s, and this new fangled device called television in radio technology during the War. Just after the close of the War in 1946 there one year later in 1947 that number had gone Four years later in 1951 there were 12 million This post war industrial explosion is the the war for Color Television. England may have birthed TV but it was raised a huge economic boom that gave Television the economic excess to invest in this new To tell the story of Television in the States, the World's Fair in New York City. The BBC was, as we mentioned already in limited the marvels of Television to a new audience Again I have to remind you that we're dealing We use terms like first regular service but modern associations. There were a handful of manufacturers but TV stations across the nation testing broadcasting And being they were experimental meant they messages which meant there was no funding the costs as R&amp;D. Research and Development. What the industry was waiting on was the FCC the airwaves so stations could begin commercial Now why do we need standards and conventions? Basically to make the marketplace more fair Imagine if every grocery store had their own would be mass confusion. From a consumer perspective, a shopper ought be able to receive the broadcasts in their You don't want to have major manufacturers receive only one channel and not the others. From a broadcaster standpoint, you want fairness The radio band is limited and considered a So if you're cleared to broadcast on one don't want a competitor throwing up an antenna So standards are essential, especially in But when there's no standard yet in place, adopted as the standard and not just for bragging license that technology. And now to introduce the major combatants Radio Corporation of American, RCA headed RCA had been the major developer in Television And in the other corner, the Columbia Broadcasting radio giant who in 1940 had yet to get their These weren't the only two in the war, there of this story, we'll stick with RCA and So here we are in 1940. RCA's black and white standard for television before is in front of the FCC as a possible But here comes little CBS, ... On August 29, developing a sequential color system developed monochrome CRT display behind a synchronized Each scan of the screen would correspond to the wheel fast enough and the primary colors This announcement of sequential or mechanical was in regards to the allocation of the radio This first version of CBS color required a - almost three times as wide as the 6 Mhz 16 megahertz per channel meant that the chunk 84MHz would only fit 2 channels instead of CBS argued that perhaps, Low band VHF wasn't UHF spectrum from 470Mhz to 890Mhz where there Next was the question - why settle on a black was only just around the corner. In fact CBS hammered the point home running the CBS color system the kind of "TV worth could be led to believe that delaying the CBS was trying to buy time to get itself set But if it could win the color standard, CBS to the leader in Color. Well this caught RCA off guard. They too were working on a color system but curiosity - instead trying to perfect their But in the end, the pressure on the FCC to Even though CBS had a prototype, they had - all their experiments came from broadcasting So in June of 1941, the FCC announced their 525 lines with FM sound and 60 hz refresh - a compromise between RCA 441 line system And on July 1, 1941, commercial television CBS had lost the first round but they didn't preoccupied and there wasn't that much to FCC was keen on seeing what CBS could do with Flash forward to December 9-13, 1946, CBS it this time trying to convince the FCC to the UHF channels and freeze the old black the FCC had allocated to VHF (which they opened VHF in the meantime). But this time RCA was prepared. They argued that they could produce color crammed into a 12 Mhz channel. But CBS was looking like a clear winner. Charles Denny the new FCC chairman was vocal Later in January of 1947, RCA demonstrates was impressed and CBS looked like a shoe in... But when it came time to vote in March of premature and Color would go back to the drawing Six months later the FCC chairman Denny accepted was owned by RCA. From CBS's perspective it looked the head at the rival company! The folks at CBS felt slighted and lobbied to an amendment that prevents that from happening So here we are in mid 1947, still no color rear its ugly head. When the Broadcast frequency allotment was broadcasts were done with relatively little With high power broadcasts and more sophisticated technology developed during World War II), of the same channel or adjacent channels would each other on their television screens. Something had to be done quickly or else chaos On September 30, 1948, FCC halts all new TV problem. Six months turned to 12 months. 12 months would turn into 30... RCA's response to all this was to pour its and white - after all there were a lot of be had once the FCC unfroze licences and RCA once UHF was open for TV. But then in 1949, the FCC reopens the question The big wigs at RCA rush back into the color on major overtime to come up with something This time they fabricate a set using three frosted glass. The entire set weighed close to a ton. This last minute effort in color was a public CBS lead engineer Goldman in a testimony to immediately without even field testing it. That was a biting blow - something RCA president But one thing RCA's system had going for white system at the time and used the same But RCA had one more card to play. Back February 24, 1947 RCA's engineer Alfred worked using a single tube - engineers racked which used colored phosphors and a shadow It was about the same size as TV sets out backwards compatible. But it was still way too premature. Then on May 26, 1950 after 8 months and 62 television, the FCC ruled in favor of the on September 1, 1950. The unfreezing of new broadcast licenses would The approval of color came with two conditions. The industry was given 90 days to produce Otherwise the CBS system would be adopted that future TV sets would come with a switch the new CBS color even if showing the signal doing that then the FCC wouldn't adopt color If they didn't agree, then the CBS color Lots of people were PISSED off, least surprisingly First they sued just a week after the FCC May 28, 1951 when the Supreme Court reaffirmed RCA's David Sarnoff flung everything at others in the industry to convene - formally 18, 1951 CBS announced that it would commence color 25, 1951 on a five city network that included Philadelphia, and Boston This would be the beginning of CBS's initial week a minimum by autumn. Thing was few people had bought converters there -so for those watching, the CBS signal color broadcast So CBS, which wasn't a manufacturer themselves, After some marshalling The first CBS sequential 20, 1951 the CBS-Columbia Model 12CC2. Catchy name... It sold for $500, or about 5,000 in 2019 dollars sets were shipped and 100 were sold. The public largely ignored this overpriced were selling millions a year and here CBS In winning this battle for Color TV, CBS lost But let's be real here, the whole idea of good. Just the practicality - the larger the screen, future in this design at all. And when people moved, because the color was colors - sequential color was simply a terrible Now during all this, another real war was Exactly who called who changes depending on E. Wilson of the Defense Production Administration, Wilsons, issues order M-90 on November 20, and development of color television because components needed on the war front. No such ask was made of black and white tv And that was the unofficial end of CBS sequential Perhaps Sarnoff's connections from RCA made a way to get off the hook on a product that Speaking of David Sarnoff at RCA - he's While CBS color was failing, he'd poured system. And slowly but surely it begins to take shape. CBS officially rescinded their color standard submits their new color standard to the FCC with RCA leading the way with their electronic chrominance and a CRT screen with Red Green we are familiar with today. And of course that frame rate is adjusted from interfering with the color subcarrier. And in December of 1953, the new NTSC Color was unanimously adopted. 1953 would close out with over 7 million television bringing the total number of TVs in the United marketplace value 228 million dollars. That's a $2.2 billion dollar production But the good news, those sets wouldn't be clunky adapter to pick new color broadcasts. Backwards compatibility was no joke. The first coast to coast color broadcast took of Roses Parade by NBC a subsidiary of RCA. Because so many of these manufacturers were and white television sets were tuned to 59.94i Ironically, or perhaps because the compatibility, It would take another 13 years before NBC line-up in 1966. In fact black and white TVs continued to outsell all the way up to 1972 when Color Sets started Just to round out the story, let's go back By the mid fifties Television was making its In 1956, the first alternative color system that would later become SECAM - it was a politically and protect French Television industries. Thing is SECAM is the same principle of NTSC and building that into the same signal was dealt with a phase problem that plagued NTSC. The way the color was encoded in NTSC could very long distances which could make the colors This is the reason you have a hue control France took the color information and split the term SECAM comes from. Then in 1959 Walter Bruch, working at Telefunken proto SECAM version and all their inherent hybrid of two. Instead of sequential chrominance signals, on each line that way any distortion would the chrominance signal. His system which he didn't want to name German word for broken - would become PAL at an even 50hz - no fractional frame rate But unlike NTSC and SECAM, it would not be Getting Europe to adopt a German system 20 the robustness of the system eventually won the first to implement it in 1967 with BBC2, of British Broadcaster. While BBC requires viewers to pay a license an additional color license and a new set Color adoption in Britain was slow too as a million subscribers for 5 years until 1972 until 1977. That's 5 years after the Americans had started ones. BBC1 and ITV kept broadcasting in the old 15, 1969 when both started broadcasting in format all the way up until 1985. So where as the Europeans like to mock the the Same Color, the Americans can just shoot fee. But in reality the color issues of NTSC were sets and using the S-Video standard, NTSC on the horizontal and higher frame rate than But for as much hubub as which was better down to it and it wasn't like you have a It's where you live. But now that things have moved to digital, digital broadcast with ATSC and DVB-2. But the spoils of the war of Color Television video today - including those little odd ball amount of illogical anger among those that Thanks for indulging me in telling this story. Most of the research from this came from an by Bob Cooper - I'll provide a link below If you would like more of these pleasure cruises please like and subscribe, ring that bell - where every little bit helps! Special thanks to our A-Team and all the rest Also check out our official Filmmaker IQ merch If you hated this video and the whole notion green and blue, attach them to a wheel and Why? I don't know, it might look cool. Send me a video!Go out there friends and make I'm John Hess and I'll see you at Filmmaker