I'm French, I live in Paris, and I can spot who unlike what everyone is saying online, important than all the subtle cultural cues I'm why do you want to blend in when you're visiting in a city that's both super touristy and very wrong with looking like you're not from here. you might actually have a bit of a harder time wearing in Paris to blend in a bit more. you already know that if you look like the the one that stops right in the middle of the a bit of unwanted attention from scammers or from you know, just see you as an easy target. And it's attractions, so I would personally avoid drawing that is to just avoid looking rich. So, if you're you have a very expensive-looking handbag, you and around touristy areas. Obviously, in local you don't want to stand out in that way. weather-appropriate clothing. So, we have four cold in winter, really hot in summer, and really at the weather app before leaving and just make a general rule, you just want to wear appropriate And here we're already getting into what I'm blend in culturally in Paris. So, what I mean by for the occasion, but we keep it simple. So, for all means wear sneakers, but don't get into full home. Or, for example, if you go to a fancier but there's not really a need to go out in full to make a statement and have people look at you. people being very stressed about what to wear this is a normal city, this is not a fashion jeans and a t-shirt and normal things, so you And I've talked about it in a previous video, I feel there's a lot of wrong advice on social telling me exactly that--that the videos they really prepare them for the reality of everyday videos focus a bit too much on being fashionable you know, being yourself while still dressing And as you can probably tell by now, I'm by no of this video is not to make sure you dress well--I feel comfortable and really enjoy the culture. I've seen online and that I feel is a bit it is by no means true today. So, the first thing not exactly true. Yes, the fashion is a bit less you shouldn't wear all black when coming to Paris. activewear, don't wear sneakers.&quot; That's also not wearing activewear and sneakers, especially where sneakers were only for working out, but pair of sneakers that we wear for everyday city in New York City where, you know, you can go out the same exact clothes. In France, I feel a lot you know, for brunch or for getting coffee, Also, the other advice that I find a bit weird is have against backpacks, but where else are you traveling? You're going to have a water bottle, need a backpack. And backpacks are absolutely don't need a fancy leather bag at all times. when people visit a country, they sometimes want is a sure way to stand out as a tourist. Like, the stereotypical French onion man, by all means just a little bit funny. But just to give you my about berets, and I've never seen a French person grew up in the south of France, so not too far I personally associate berets with sweet older you know, fashion-forward people. So the only in a French-themed costume party. And you can However, one thing that's a stereotype and stripes. And these are a pretty common thing which is a sailor's shirt, and I have so many of my American boyfriend, even wears them. I think bring from France, and every time we wear them from me, but it's a big yes to marinieres. don't tell you is that not looking like a tourist but it's more about how you act and how you blend I have a French friend who every like they're about to climb the Mont Blanc, which get mistaken for a tourist because they know all And if you're visiting Paris, one thing that is learning a bit of French beforehand. And you should check out today's sponsor, Lingopie. through watching TV shows and movies, and one is called Call My Agent in English. And you can and I always recommend these shows to people who be immersed in the language and in the culture. doing grammar exercises on your own. So with tools you need while watching your favorite shows. a translation in English at the same time, and it, and you can also add it to your flashcards so in the description below to get 55% off the annual Also, in local areas, we can tell you're not There's nothing wrong about it, and, you know, confused because they don't really understand you, When I travel, I am also super clueless, and to do everyday stuff, like taking the metro or how for that. I love when people help me randomly. whatever you want. I believe you should try to culturally, and, you know, you go with the flow of So, the first big one--and I think I mention be polite. So say hello, thank you, goodbye. saying hello, which is bonjour in French. interaction with a new person. So, at a shop, when your metro ticket--every interaction should start hello. This is just a way of acknowledging that, Then my second tip for you to blend in culturally servers at a restaurant, shopkeepers, and so on. you're a guest in their establishment, so they're remember, they don't work for tips, so they don't the mindset of 'the customer is always right' is nice, especially if you're asking for something. instead of yelling at the person or getting angry. can be a bit obvious sometimes, is if you speak language you're speaking. For example, American In France, people tend to speak a bit quieter. And with my American boyfriend Bobby, I often told tiny bit less loud than he would be naturally. In place, just look at the people around you and example, in trains, people tend to speak very low. place, people will speak in a lower voice, a bit party places, some people will get a bit louder. whatever people are doing is pretty you want to be adaptable. You want to adapt to but there's a few rules to know about closing time. Closing time for a restaurant, home. The doors are closed, people are gone, the two minutes before closing time. If people let because they're working overtime for you. So just 30 minutes before or 15 minutes before. And don't it's the rule for everyone. So if people are is normal, they're just preparing for closing. So breakfast is usually whenever you wake up. we tend to wake up quite late in Paris. Lunch is 7:30. If you try to eat dinner very early, for be a single French person in the restaurant, time is around 8 to 8:30. Also, some restaurants I like only open at 7 p.m., and if you arrive are you doing here? Like, we're getting ready. blend in more and flow more with French culture surroundings. So I've told you before about how are doing and try to mimic what is happening. You we're in a very, very dense city, so you want you're walking down the streets. The sidewalks have to zigzag between people. You also want to you know, don't block people who are trying having a bad time, and they will let you know just walk like you know where you're going anyone from doing what they want to be doing. might get you in trouble actually is taking without saying, but taking photos or videos of not nice, you know, everyone is entitled to their So you should not take pictures or videos of allowed to take pictures and videos of people who taking a photo of a street, for example, but you and people will get angry about it if you happened so many times when I was filming, and Anyways, apart from that, there's no big no-no in you know, you won't get everything right, and you of traveling to a new place. And I often see misunderstandings, about what to wear, about how so we're not very different from where you live. anyways. Don't worry too much about it. Focus on being open to new experiences. And if you want I think you should watch one of