Welcome. Today, we finally returned to our routine. After I finished my exams on Thursday, I like to get all my things from outside and prepare them for the weekend. Our weekly holiday is 3 days. I don't like to waste my time on vacation buying household supplies . As you saw, I was bringing household supplies. There was a lot of pressure on me, my husband, and the children last period, so I wanted to work. An evening eating good food that the children love is dinner, and at the same time an evening. This is a reward for achievements. Frankly speaking, what I have done is considered an achievement. When the children finished their exams, I felt as if I was taking an exam. Thank God it is over, and now I am sick. My voice is tired, if you notice my voice. And for that reason, I was late for you in the video. I brought beef dough. Pastry and I started making many good recipes that did not take a lot of time. First of all, I brought the beef pastry dough and put chocolate on it. You can put cream cheese on it. You can put, for example, the inside of it, which you like, lotus, or other things, and we cover it like you saw. Then we spread it like this with a knife so that it gives a nice shape. Then I came back and made a second shape. Did you see this shape? We put vegetables inside and cheese on top. And the circles that I made into small pizzas, chocolate pies, I brushed them with egg whites and sprinkled sugar on them. As for the salty pastries, which are with vegetables and cheese, I put egg yolks and a little sesame if you like, or a black seed or whatever you prefer. Here I would like to make a second recipe with tortilla bread. I brought meat and put spices, salt, and black and white pepper in it. I also put onion powder and paprika. I stir it a lot and rub it well. Then I make it in the shape of a kofta or in the shape of a burger. I made four balls according to our number, then I rolled them out and made them into a kofta. Now I want to fry them, and after they are done, we will make them with tortilla bread in a large way. Sweet, delicious and delicious, I will make you a delicious burger. Do you like burgers? What a little bit and it will be ready to eat. I brought tortilla bread and put cheddar cheese sauce on top of it. Instead, you can put ketchup and mayonnaise mixed and spread it on the bread. Then we add the kofta and of course on top I will add tomatoes and lettuce, but I did not have lettuce. If you have lettuce, add it on top with the tomatoes and sugar it in this way and you will have a sandwich. With the same stove, I fry sandwiches so they get a nice color at the same time and get a better flavour . Did you enjoy it? Ok to eat? What is this bird? No, what is this? Peacock Peacock The time we spend with our family is one of our happiest moments, and unfortunately it ends quickly. We sat down and watched a useful children's movie, and there is a lesson in it. We spent time together. Then it was time for the children to sleep. On the day off, the children were a little late in sleeping. They were very happy and had a good time, and then they went to sleep and I started cleaning. The kitchen needed cleaning after all this work. The evening was nice and we needed it after all the pressures of the past weeks. The oven was in a difficult condition, so I started cleaning it completely. If you want to maintain the oven, the gas will always remain new, as it is, you must clean it after every cooking. I, for example, used the oven today, immediately. I cleaned it and did not leave it too dirty. The gas on top was poured with morning milk. Do you see? It's over, but milk spills on it. If you leave it longer, it will become more difficult to clean. I put the tray in this oven next to the gas heads to clean them. If you have a dishwasher, it would still be better. I don't have a dishwasher. Put the dishwasher cube or white soap in and put boiling water in them and leave them for a while and then scrub them and then they come back. How beautiful they are. Newbies, you don't see these, but the blackheads. As for the rest, no, at night, when my children are sleeping, I have time for what is special to me at the end of the night. Of course, our colleges do not brush our teeth. I use this toothpaste a lot. I like it. I bought it from Timo. I will put a link for you in the description box. I also use the toothpaste for teeth right now. And God willing, I will see a benefit from them . Here I have started to put masks for my feet that I use at night. This helps you a lot. They have improved the condition of your skin. In fact, the benefits of the masks are countless, but the important thing is that one continues and repeats on the second day. They came to install a screen stand for us. I liked it a lot. I will put a link for you under this screen mover. If you are sitting and want to eat on the dining tables, change the direction of the TV. On the other hand, I love watching the TV when I am eating. Frankly, for me, this is a break time. I loved this idea. I have been implementing it for a long time. How do you not want to turn the TV? After they installed the TV, it was full of fingerprints and fingerprints. Cleaning spray intended for screens or special cleaning wipes tied under a lot are good for wiping the TV. Don't wipe with any cleaner, because this will damage the screen, as you saw. They dug and dirty the floor and the table, and I wasn't vacuuming, so I said, "Come on, after they go to sweep, God willing. So, will I come and sweep? They asked me about the Dyson vacuum, and they were honest." Very excellent, I have had it for three years here . I have a head only for dust, and a head only for upholstery, and a head for carpets, and a head for corners. I mean, it is really terrible. In the last generation, it mops and vacuums at the same time. It is more expensive, and each one according to his needs, but I personally advise it. I will put a link for you in the description box, whether the generation I have or the latest generation. While I was cleaning, the vacuum gave me a signal that the filter needs to be cleaned, just like you saw. The main head that contains the engine, but I wipe it. As for the rest of the parts, I wash them all, and the place of the filter is exclusively forbidden. We do not put any cleaning materials on it, but we wash it. I think these days the weather has changed in the Emirates. My mother always advised us to drink flower. There were times when she made flower for me and my husband to drink because it was useful. Seriously, my mother used to make it in the morning at 5 or 6 o'clock. It tastes good, by the way, and you feel it has a special atmosphere, but there are people who may not like it. I will give you advice if you want. Drink the flowers and enjoy them. Add these things. I added apple pieces, orange slices, lemon, and mint, and maybe mint with the flowers. I boiled them over the fire, then drink from them and pray for me. They are very delicious. It came out in the evening. I wanted to see my friend coming from Saudi Arabia. She told me, "Let's meet at the mall." She was a little late, so I said to myself, "Let's walk around the mall." I don't go around the malls a lot. I came across a store called Momoso. Then I said, &quot;Let me go to the Home Box store.&quot; I also watched for a while on the basis that I wanted to watch people buy. I mean, in my opinion, don't miss any store if you don't need anything. I felt like I was in trouble. You bought me a few items, but thank you. For God's sake, a little something from Momoso that I didn't buy from Home Box, but I come home and show you the things that I was involved in buying :) Come on, miss it, come on , come on, come on, come on. After my friend came, we decided to let the kids into the games area so we could have a contract on this basis, but my friend's daughter is young, and they told us that he must enter. She had a companion . Then we found ourselves involved and playing with cars, because they also forbade my friend's daughter from riding in the car on her own because she was young, but by God, we were happy . We brought back childhood memories. We sat and ate and drank a lot. I was happy in the company of my friend. We spent some sweet, unforgettable time together. I wanted to show you the gifts that my friend had brought me in the first place. It was a bag that I loved a lot. Its color is one of the colors that are between pink and beige. It is very sweet . This color is fashionable and I liked the bag. She also brought me this air freshener. You put the rose on it and leave it alone. It gives off a nice smell. God willing. I want to decorate the bathroom of my room. Farah used this freshener too. Here he brought me a box of Petitfour. She said For me, I was afraid that I would not be able to meet you, otherwise I would have brought you Zamzam water with me. May God make it easy for me to go and perform Umrah and go to Zamzam in Saudi Arabia. Oh Lord, pray for me seriously that you thank her with all my heart, and may God bless her. I brought from Momoso these loofahs for the bathroom. I want to do the bathroom in my room. I brought sleeves for this. They don't show up. These are very nice. By the way, I also have their links. You will see them underneath. They are very nice. The black color comes in the shape of hearts. I bought a white color. I think they are very nice, and their price is very nice. I also got these. They used to offer masks for under the eyes and for the lips. God willing, I will try them. I will tell you my opinion about them