&quot;For over a thousand generations, the Jedi knights old Republic before the dark times, before the from humble beginnings to become protectors as the most effective military units of the Clone diving into the lore of star wars has been a to explore new civilizations be they from true broaden your horizons i can highly recommend our vast library of human history at your fingertips books and uses experts to distill them down to digest with text or audio in just 15 minutes it's of topics from the 27 sections offered by blinkist of simple living which lays out the teachings of the practices of the jedi as another follow-up to star wars which discusses how this work of i'm sure that when you try blinkist you'll also right now blinkist has a special offer just for to start your 7 day free trial with blinkist The Jedi Order was a religious organization composed of force-sensitive beings devoted to and was defined by a collection of sacred texts some 25 millenia ago, they would endure fall alongside the death of the Republic at the the Jedi Order was integral to maintaining peace between warring groups or, in rare cases, But to understand the Jedi Knights of ourselves with their origins. The Jedi on the ocean world of Ahch-To 25,000 years By the age of the Republic comprehensive lost. The Jedi themselves, on the eve of their with the primary candidates being either Tython and Ahch-To were barely even considered The early Jedi formed themselves texts including two volumes of the Aionomica, and The Rammahgon. These texts were not rather a collection of histories, tenets, The early Jedi, much like the first potters or the dark as they struggled to understand the Force was a collection of correspondence, notes, intended to be used as reference material was a collection of foundation myths and had departed Ahch-To for Tython. Most of the Over time the Jedi would slowly gaining more followers whilst building new the original texts faded into the background as a This order was centered around The Jedi Code which was simple and can be best demonstrated through "There is no emotion, there is peace. There is no passion, there is serenity. There is no chaos, there is harmony. The Jedi Code was ultimately about moderation while powerful, lead one to act selfishly and and destruction when left unchecked. Thus of the many above their own needs and the However this rigid doctrine of emotional restraint Order. It was simple fact that a force user to the table than any self-controlled knight. But from the established codes and eventually a rogue followed in their wake, ultimately bringing and banishment of the Sith. Following the the order in exile would emerge at the helm of a the forces of the Old Republic. This was the first Let us now consider the equipment It should be noted that for most of their which donned no armor and carried no blasters. Physical advantages in speed and agility, and non-physical abilities such as the means to emotions were invaluable in any interaction. iconic symbol of their order was the Lightsaber, The earliest lightsabers were likely crafted achieved by using rare Kyber Crystals, formed in Primitive designs were incredibly unstable and stress, or just exploding. A badly constructed The first functional lightsaber was made 'The Weapon Master'. In later years it would At the height of the Order during the High being taken by their master to face the This was the first step to knighthood and in all things. The crystals allowed or Neutral-Aligned aligned force users, but the and dominate their Kyber crystals in order to as 'bleeding'. Ultimately each lightsaber As such no two were the same, and lightsabers such as Pikes, Double-bladed sabers, hilted In most cases these were used as weapons of last interactions towards more harmonious conclusions. Jedi Knights might better prepare they wore various degrees of ablative body During major periods of and the Mandalorian Wars it was not uncommon to During the Clone Wars when nearly the entire wore modified variants of clone armor to Other items carried by the Jedi would have been custom made by the Order's quartermaster. These hook and launcher, a rebreather, a holomap, a lightsaber repair kit, and the lightsaber itself the typical Jedi Knight thus outfitted let us From a broad perspective, the Jedi Order was younglings who transitioned to Padawans in their ascend to the level of Knight in their 20s. This career in pursuit of various specializations and a deep connection to the force and could others were weaker in the force and made up for blade. Any given Jedi Knight was a formidable After decades of distinguished service attempted to rise to the rank of Master. exceptional talent or circumstances Those who qualified for such a legendary status which served as a governing body for the affairs with the election of Grand-Masters to Naturally such figures were typically the the High Republic there were three simultaneous Another important position was that of handled the day-to-day affairs of the order on far corners of the Galaxy. Prior to the Clone but he stepped down from the position in During the Clone Wars the duties of the average Masters were given the Republican rank of the rank of Commander. These Jedi were given including authority over fleet deployments, Such Knights Militant were often called with a single Jedi often turning the But how did they reach such levels of expertise? Let us seek to answer this question During the age of the Republic, Jedi recruiters would travel across the galaxy in Once located, these younglings would be brought Here they would be sorted into small clans Careful lessons, rituals, and tests guided the basics of emotional control and lightsaber adolescence they would begin to prepare for the on the ice world of Ilum where the younglings earn their Kyber crystals with which they Following this, younglings would be raised to Knight or Master who would oversee their continued of their training was practical. To this end learning primarily by doing. Such lessons ranged theory, diplomacy, investigative techniques, and While training alongside their masters young the First Form, known as the Shii-Cho Form, inflicting serious injury. Other forms include the form favored by Grand Master Yoda. The Ataru form while the Makashi was born specifically The next set of formal trials would These were the Jedi Trials which tested teamwork, instinct, forgiveness, and protection. This ritual themselves were controlled, or at least assigned, was the Trial of Skill which tested mastery over trial was the Trial of Courage which tested mental The third trial was the Trial of Spirit which The fourth trial was the Trial of the Flesh which tested a Jedi's ability to disregard pain, which tested a Jedi's ability to discern the Successful completion of The Trials would see a From there a Jedi's service could truly begin. They would then adopt an such as the Jedi Consular who focused on diplomacy on technology and espionage. Typically, the had successfully trained multiple Padawans and their own growth and ability as diplomats, Seeing that there were approximately 10,000 12 Masters on the Council, the vast majority of After Order 66 this formal path of advancement was force-sensitive pupils had to make do with what master having to decide when their apprentice Often the path to knighthood during this period sensitive being mastering their own emotions in a the Order. For instance both Ezra Bridger and and build a strong sense of self in order to With this understanding in mind, let us now turn Republic. We can pick things up around the 5th served as peacekeepers and diplomats on behalf of in outright conflict. This would all change outbreak of the Great Sith Wars. Known primarily reportedly featuring massive, destructive battles took place between hundreds of blade wielding homeworld of Korriban while even Coruscant itself The already titanic conflicts of this period which steered many other groups One of these defining chapters would This famed militaristic civilization had upon the borderlands of the Republic. However the to lay claim to large portions of the Outer the Jedi Order was hesitant to get involved in any Mandalorians and their reported atrocities began young Jedi, later known as Revan, began assembling Council continued to resist involvement but the make a small allowance for limited numbers of Jedi Needless to say, these theoretically non-combat involved in military operations, with Revan It was said the young commander was the singular outplaying Mandalore the Great time and again. The war ultimately culminated Here Revan, increasingly influenced by the Dark as bait. The Mandalorians, seeing this apparent seemingly vulnerable fleet. But soon after the arrived, trapping the Mandalorian fleet and Sensing his doom, Mandalore made a desperate The Jedi accepted without hesitation. Their duel, on the Mandalorian flagship, was hard fought Yet even still the demoralized Mandalorians fought planet the casualties mounted on both sides. It is He now ordered his lieutenant to the Mass Shadow Generator. Instantly a The vast majority of ships - both Republic as was the planet itself. In the wake of surrendered unconditionally. And But the wider Sith Wars dragged on. For his newly formed Sith faction ignited a fresh fronts the Old Republic was brought low. The costly defeat of their enemy, as remnant Sith The first Jedi purge and in particular the many of their numbers. Within 300 years under Darth Malgus, sacking Coruscant and their infighting proved to be their downfall. Republic managed to strike back, recapturing In the aftermath, the victors were left to reconstituted into the modern Galactic Republic peace. This era of the High Republic saw a gradual Jedi Order. The temple at Coruscant was expanded their traditional training as peacemakers. Having humanitarian, and policing missions meant to especially across the wilder During this time, the knights certainly still lower than it had been in centuries past. replaced now by the relatively tame threat of However the long peace also bred complacency bowels of their very Temple the powers long in the making would finally bear their poison of the Clone Wars. In these matters the Jedi as non-military diplomats and peacekeepers Republic to take up arms. Yet unlike the individuals or sects were selected for combat, Virtually all Jedi Knights and Masters while even padawan learners were Thus they became enmeshed in from the planning chambers to the bloody front effective as a flexible force multiplier and even campaigns. One prime example was the It is here that Mace Windu and a strike force to save their imprisoned comrades. They held vast droid force, long enough for Clone and relieve their position. Together the Jedi and which drove the Separatists back. In the chase, to take on high priority targets which This first campaign was but one of many which war that spilled out across the galaxy. We I did however want to cover another flashpoint Jedi knights were typically engaged. This would of Kamino. Here General Grievous and Asaaj The first of these moves occupied the Republican was launched against the facilities of Tipoca the clone supply. Realizing the danger Obi Wan Kenobi and Anakin Skywalker, delegated descended to engage with the enemy generals. and bought the defenders enough time to rally the Republic had suffered heavy losses as well This is perhaps the most typical example of Jedi often delegated to capable subordinates whilst the a small unit of commandos. In this way, clone as a holding force while their commander attempted This tactic was particularly effective A few Separatist leaders often commanded command structure was disabled, everything that themselves as a weapon, the often unpredictable Yet ultimately the degree to which proved their ultimate undoing. When Order 66 be executed by their own troops on the front the five hundred and first in a direct assault survivors were then hunted down to near extinction of the Republic, arguably at the peak of their We hope you've appreciated from an age before they were reduced to mere Let us know what Units of History or A huge thanks to the Patrons for funding please consider joining to participate and download the awesome art for each episode. And artists, and editors for Be sure to like and subscribe for