- Welcome back to &quot;Temu Tech&quot;. What is this? &quot;Cervical neck traction device&quot;? It's an inflatable neck pillow? What? Who wants an inflatable? This looks not good. This is an item I'm actually The Lenovo ThinkPad TH30 Okay, so, the reason I say this is that Lenovo actually of really nice looking headphones, or at least nice sounding headphones. For 18 bucks, I think these actually could be good. Professional wireless Lavalier Wait, is this actually wireless? So, it looks like two, like, wireless mics kinda like the one that I've And then it goes into your iPhone. Or you can go into a type C port. Oh, hey! Yo, yo, yo. Wait, this is something cool. Stylist pen for iPad, blah, It's an Apple pencil. I'll try it. &quot;Explosives head massager&quot;. Now, hold on. Do we need to use the word &quot;explosive&quot; beside &quot;head massager&quot;? Are you sure that this is not like, &quot;The Brain Download 9,000&quot;? (laughs) &quot;Realistic Burger Pillow&quot; and it's the video is the Oh my god. This is the best. This is the best. There's a list of Pokemon games. So, Fire Red, Leaf Green, all the Game boy Advance, for $4. Now, as we all know, have been out of print for 20 years and are quite expensive, I am gonna investigate the 'cause I don't know if this is legitimate. Ah! &quot;Electric scraping instrument&quot;? Scraping? Obviously we're ordering a and hopefully, most of hilarious video. But I think it's also about time that we do some Temu on &quot;This Is&quot;. What if I order some extra on &quot;This Is&quot;? Don't tell him what his is and make him do the electric scrape. All right, my friends. Time to hit the &quot;order&quot; button and see exactly what Temu has This video is sponsored by stamps.com. Stamps.com kind of reminds me of how great it is to have a team. I used to do everything myself, from shooting to editing, and I'm not gonna lie, it was a little bit tough but I am so grateful to have doing whatever it is that they do while I do what I do best, make videos. Just like my team, stamps.com works to make sure that you can focus on what you do best, growing your business. For the last 25 years, they've helped over 1 million just like yours. With partners like the US you can have the flexibility you need, and more importantly, discounts up to 84% off standard rates. Stamps.com is there for you day and night. All you need is a computer and printer. It's easy to schedule a pickup, meaning no traffic, no lines, and more time Set your business up for success when you get started To sign up, it's stamps.com/AustinEvans for a special offer that plus postage and a free digital scale. No long-term commitments or contracts. Just go to stamps.com/AustinEvans and a huge thank you to stamps.com for sponsoring this video. Let's take a look at what we- Whoa, my voice cracked. Oh no. (clears throat) - [Ken] What's it like being 12? - Let's take a look. (laughs) Temu Tech! Okay. (laughs) I remember ordering this one now. What the- ? Wait. Did I order this as an extra large? Hello, internet's busiest tech nerd here. Unfortunately, there was another item that was going to complete but unfortunately, Temu Oh, wait, wait, wait. Is it- ? Okay, so this is a phone This is like a head strap here. It looks like a, basically, but then you connect your So, if you ever want to get and you don't wanna go out there and buy yourself a fancy action camera, well you can show exactly from your point of view using All right, seven bucks. I can kind of forgive a So, I'm going to gently This is a little small for a head strap. Ah. Boy, this is not gonna Okay, how's it look? So, this is what it's like to be me. I'm walking around, making fun of Ken. I don't know, I'm just gonna wear this to unbox the next item. (box clatters) All right. Oh yeah! Hey Ken, you're musically inclined, right? - [Ken] I listen to music. - That means you're qualified of equipment. - Bruh! - This is a MIDI control keyboard, which is apparently battery powered. Has 25 velocity sensitive slim keys, Velocity sounds like Velociraptor, which means that it's cool. There are a lot of very high quality MIDI and there are some cheap ones. This might be the cheapest which, I will say, I don't So, this is the M-Wave. I will just say, it looks nice. Keys are fine. It seems actually relatively well built. I mean, especially for this thing, including shipping. This is an iPad mini. - Yep. - We've got a USB hub with the MIDI keyboard - Yeah, and I think it We took a little time - Okay. (keyboard notes play) (Austin claps) How does this work so how much of this actually works? - In GarageBand for iPad with the keyboard part of the app, you can actually do a fair bit. Obviously, keyboard stuff works. You can change your pitch. (pitch sliding) - [Austin] Okay. Okay. - You could change octaves. So- (notes clang) - Oh, so basically, because 20-something key, however small. - Yeah, it's not a lot. You can go three octaves above and below. You also have programmable pads. They're pre-programmed to whatever. Oh, there we go. Beat pads work. - So then, this is where we (beats playing) - There you go. Okay, well. Austin's This is gonna be funny. This is the beginning of the new arc. - DJ Not Duncan. - DJ. DJ Not (slaps table). DJ Not Duncan. - You know, as a YouTuber, it's important to have a 'cause you never know when you're going to get into which is why I have preemptively Oh, ohhh! Oh look, it's here. Okay, so can I just, I'll Ahhhh! Ahhhhhh! (makes horrible pseudo singing sound) (laughing) Oh, I'm so sorry I probably did something What would be our band name? - The Overclocks. - Oh! My Apple stylus pencil. Let us investigate this pencil. Okay, so, well, I mean, for other stuff 'cause there's but that's fine. Oh. what happened to charging Okay, so this does look, at It's got the same kind of like flat edge, but I'm assuming- Wait, what? No, it doesn't. What? Oh yep, there is a, in fact, a USB-C port, which, at least it's USB-C. Oh. It kind of, wait, wait, wait wait. Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa. Hold on a second. I put it on and it I think the iPad's actually charging it. The problem is that the using an actual Apple pencil. So, it's not like really (gasps) Wait! Wait! Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, Wait! It worked for like one second. Does it need to charge? So, normally I would just say &quot;Oh, this is like, some lame Don't buy it.&quot; But the thing is, I've seen, Quinn actually did a terrific video buying some tech from Temu and one of them was, maybe but he got an Apple pencil on Temu which worked relatively well. And the fact that this did work for a second before stopping makes me think that we're missing something here. Does it work? - [Ken] Yeah, actually. Oh no, my Apple pencil just paired. - Oh. Oh wait. So, it's pairing as a new - Turning off and on - Okay. - I'm gonna try to do it lightly. Now, so here's the thing. This, as far as I can tell, for like normal use, is actually totally fine as a stylus. Now, I don't think it of the fidelity, especially like the pressure sensitivity of a standard pencil. But if you just want to use to be able to scroll through your iPad or to be able to jot like honestly, I would actually save the a (strumming ukulele) (package thuds) I need more mystery tech in my life Okay, so this is quite a squashed box and I don't even know what it is 'cause the label's kind of - [Ken] Your guess as good as mine. - Well, we're about to find Just like we're about to find out if you've really hit the Did you actually hit it? - [Ken] What is that? Wait, this is not what I thought it is. - [Austin] What? - [Alex] Specifically, this is the &quot;Crotch Stretcher&quot;. (laughs) - [Austin] Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait. - [Ken] (laughs) Whoa. Time out. (Ken keeps laughing) This is &quot;The Crotch Stretcher&quot;? Here goes nothing. (plastic hitting plastic) (Ken laughs) Is this what I thought I was gonna do when I woke up this morning? Probably not. But is it the content that you deserve? Yeah. You know what you've done. - Oh, that's a vibe. - [Austin] Nope, nope, nope, nope, nope. Here is the &quot;Explosive Head Massager&quot;. That's really firm. Is my face vibrating right now? Can you tell? - [Ken] Not really. - So, it's vibrating. Every time it vibrates, my vision goes, like, you in Final Cut. (Ken laughs) This is the metal detector with 360 side detection I heard that someone's smuggling Okay. - You're supposed to be enforcing the law. - Stand up. Stand up. T pose. Yeah, there's no metal. (detector beeping rapidly) Ah! I found metal. Lemme find some other metal. What if it, can it detect tungsten? (rapid beeping) Yeah. (Ken laughs) I mean, this works. (chill music) I guess if you're looking for metal and you know, gold or whatever, it works. (detector beeping) Apparently, my ring is real. (Ken busting out laughing) My heated vibrating knee massager. Boy, you know, I just These are some of the items on Temu. So, I dunno how well we're 'cause it just looks like but I've got a little screen here so I'm gonna turn it on. Unfortunately, I'm wearing jeans, which I'm realizing, probably not a smart move. As it warms up, let's go ahead and start some vibration. (massager beeps) Oh, okay. Oh, so actually it vibrates quite low. Okay, we're just gonna I'm immediately gonna - [Ken] Oh yeah, no, I see what you mean. I need that on my knee cap. - [Austin] Yeah. You gotta like really hike it up. - Ooh! - (grunts) That came with some force. So this, my friends, is a big old burger. - [Ken] Wow. - Well, wish me luck, my friends. I'm gonna go take a trip to Burger Town. - [Ken] &quot;Hey guys, this (plastic crackles) - Oh, oh, I know what this is. Why am I sinking into it? (pump pumping) Wow. So if you pump it up a little bit, it's probably pretty nice on a plane. (indistinct) I can't feel my face anymore. - Oh my God. (laughing) - I'm not kidding. - Okay, try to like, move - Oh my god. (laughing) - This is a wireless Lavalier microphone. Much like the microphone that So, we use quite expensive here in the studio. So, the idea that Temu will sell me a far cheaper option This was only $6, which makes me think there's And is it even gonna work? I mean, that's like, ridiculously cheap. I'll immediately say, I do have all my bits and bobs. - No microphone attached, As you can see, I have it in my hand here. So. this is directly This is what the $6 Temu mics sound like. All right, here I am from like, whatever, 30 feet away. - It's too loud. That's my main criticism is on the mics is way too high. But we paid $6 for a Are you kidding me? That just literally - Though it is almost outta battery. - Well it it is probably This thing's unplugged. - Oh, it's unpaired. - Yeah. I, I, I, I mean, for $6, I have no idea what you And because it's so loud, all I would do is maybe just hold the mic a little bit farther away and I think it actually sounds fine. - [Ken] And lower your tone of voice. - No! So, as we all know in life, paying full price is for suckers. And you know who we are? We're winners. We're winners who buy Now, we've looked at a lot of This is... they've gotten clever. They don't put Apple logos. If you look, even though the packaging is vaguely reminiscent of an actual, although, man, it doesn't sound good. It's vaguely reminiscent of real AirPods. But they're clever enough to So, technically no trademark Well, I will immediately the magnets aren't right. They're too lightweight. But I mean, from here, can you tell those Five bucks, man? Look, there's a certain level and $5 is the level in - [Ken] Here's another. - Lenovo. Okay, so here's the thing. Lenovo is an actual brand. So, 18 bucks is quite cheap for over ear Bluetooth headphones. But it's starting to get to the point where you can get sort of regular options on like Amazon and whatnot. Oh, look at this. &quot;Cannot verify AirPods&quot;. &quot;These headphones cannot be verified as genuine Apple AirPods. Would you like to connect anyway?&quot; I have never seen that before. Yes, I would like to connect anyway. - [Alex] That might also is discontinued. - Oh, have they removed - [Alex] Yes. - Let me describe to you Let's say this is a flat So, you've got your lows, Well, here are my lows. That's it. It's like, have you ever (subwoofer low sound) Oh, they actually pause Okay, I don't want to They've clearly been removed. Like, they're trying to become AirPods and while they sort of function there's no noise canceling. And the sound quality I can Let's try these Lenovos, which I think are going Wow, that's quite the colorway. Well, you know what though? Okay, so the cushions are soft, the headband is all right. I mean clearly, quite cheap plastic, but at the price point, nothing that seems unreasonable. Oh, it's so much better. It's 17 bucks. These are not bad. The problem is, is that I almost feel like there's probably like seventeen, eighteen, that are about the same. Which is, why would you buy 'Cause I feel like Temu is They're not spectacular. However, they do work. There's nothing that's They're built reasonably well. They're comfortable. But they don't sound- they're, they're, they're fine. This is the most tricked Boy, these kids look just like So, I think the idea is and because it's got like, sort of this sort of you're not gonna hurt your finger. Oh, okay. (spinner whirs) (Ken laughs) (spinner whirring) Catch. (team laughing) All right. Catch. - Whoa. - Seven bucks, man? This thing's kinda cool. As we all know, Temu is of devices and most importantly, So, this, my friends, is a completely real and legitimate copy of &quot;Pokemon Emerald&quot;. You can tell by the of the cartridge and the odd printing. Now, if you wanna buy a proper you're talking about like, maybe a hundred bucks. But these reproductions This is $4. There we go. Look at that. So, here's the thing. I am a little bit torn on this, partially because- Also, it's really hard to see on camera. It's too big. It can you see on the It like, sticks out by like, I don't know, half a millimeter, which is definitely not - [Alex] I think Nintendo 'cause it's gone. - Oh! Oh, look at this! So, for 13 bucks, I do not expect that this I will say though, it is quite convincingly remanufactured. Looking at the box, it's got the right kind of pull tab- Oh, actually, you know what? No, it's not the right pull tab. It looks like the right pull tab. It's made out of paper instead of plastic. - There's a part of me - That's the thing. It's good enough that at least it makes you stop and think. Oh, you know what? Well... Dude, oh no, no, that's not real. Look at the fonts on the bottom. That's not real. That's definitely not real. - Ah. Dammit, I was, ugh. - It's pretty good though, man. - They had us in the first half. - [Austin] Yeah, no, like, this packaging, like, this isn't quite right. It's not like crazy far off but it's not quite right. This is very close to - [Alex] Do you want to know what happened to their listing on Temu? - Is it gone? - [Alex] Yeah. - Oh, they took the listing down. That's also a big giveaway. All right, let's plug it in. Okay, it does light up green. - And so does the wheel. - Okay. It is mousing right now. Although, wow, that, You can tell it's not real 'cause it's not asking me to Temu, you took my money again I'm never gonna give in Because you took my money And I only got half of what I want But guess what? I like views and I can't