- I can't prove creation. I can't prove evolution. I can't prove that a didn't create the universe. - So why can't you prove those things? - Because they sit in a field called forensic or historical science. The origin of life is a fairytale because it starts with once upon a time, a bunch of lifeless simple became a bit more complex I mean, I'm sorry. It takes more faith to believe in a natural origin of (ambient music) - My guest today will be making a case for a very bold statement. He claims that evolution Dr. Grocott, you have a PhD in physical and inorganic chemistry, but you also come with a wealth - Yes, I've been working for 40 years, hopefully it doesn't show, but I did a PhD in my 20s. I moved into industrial careers doing research and development, in process development of I worked for many I also had a lot of where I used to co-supervise PhD students. I have many refereed So, a lifelong and - So, evolution is a fairytale for adults. Bold statement. Why do you say that? - Well, firstly, I wanna stress that I'm not trying to insult I am a scientist. I earn my living doing, amongst other So, I'll explain though Because a fairytale starts and it finishes with a, and they all lived happily ever after. - Yep. and they all died. So, the origin of life because it starts with once and then it exploded. That's the so-called Big Bang Theory, which is coming under from the secular scientific community. Then you end up with the Once upon a time a bunch of joined together, became a bit more complex and then they became and more and more complex. And so, you had some And then once upon a time, those moderately complex into even more complexity. And once upon a time, it became self-replicating And once upon a time when all the normal laws of chemistry and these molecules didn't So, I call it a once upon a time theory of the origins of life. It's not supported by - Okay. So you've mentioned observational science. I wonder if you could because I feel like I've heard, and I've read in textbooks, a lot of scientists seem So just speak to us about that. - The majority of scientists I used to believe in evolution, I never looked at it. I just assumed it was true because that's what I was told. I just assumed it was true because that's what other But when you look at the data and when you look at the science, you make the tests, you you do not see simple molecules self-assembling into complex molecules, surviving the oppressive and temperature pushing them and becoming more complex. You do not see that, You cannot even repeat it You can't conduct a laboratory experiment to make these molecules to the precursors, to the - So you're saying that to test it in a lab today, we're not able to see - So, not so much big bang. So I'm talking about the Others can talk about the big bang. I'll digress, you know? (chuckles) Too long. But self-assembly of molecules, they do not self-assemble primordial soup conditions. Even if you invent the most imaginably, wonderfully supportive conditions, you will not form living molecules. I'm gonna use a really gross example here. I hate cockroaches. I'm gonna put a whole 500 cockroaches in my blender And apart from being a very what I've just created is a collection of non-living organic molecules. And I'll give it a in case there's any bacteria So to kill off the bacteria. But now I've got the most perfect soup, far, far more favorable for than you'll get in a Now I can leave this blender out in the sun, the right the right conditions, everything perfect. I am not going to form a living molecule. Scientists know that. Scientists know that. So why do they maintain that under less favorable They appeal to time. Time's an enemy. The longer I leave this it's gonna get worse and worse and worse. - But what you're saying, Stephen, is that even though a lot of people understand that a they're relying on millions of years or billions of years to - That's one of the things Now, as I've just said, when you ask them and you probe them and they will agree that because the complexity is not being preserved, So the train's heading So, appealing to time because chance is sending Time is sending you in - Do you mean that over they don't improve? - It's called the second or the law of entropy, or the law of randomness. It's in an exorable law no known exceptions. So, people try to appeal to, well, if I control the environment, I can create complexity. Yes, that requires a designer and it requires a lot of intelligence and it requires the right systems, the right specified complexity. That comes about by a designer. It doesn't come about by accident. No known exceptions. - Is a designer the only alternative to the evolution fairytale? - It's the only one that I think fits the field of observational I can't prove creation, I can't prove evolution. I can't prove that a didn't create the universe. - So why can't you prove those things? - Because they sit in a field called forensic or historical science. So, take a forensic movie. You know, they do a DNA test and they say, &quot;Ah, this because their DNA has been And it may be unlikely but there are other explanations for it. They happen to have walked or somebody had contact with them and had contact with the the weapon. I mean there are other explanations. You cannot prove it. So that's forensic science. But even the best forensic science points to a divine creation, a super intelligent being that created these systems but directed assembly of molecules into such complexity that - So you're saying that forensic science focuses on what has already occurred and is trying to piece that together? - Yeah, forensic scientists, science is actually getting So science can't prove that Abraham Lincoln was assassinated. Science can't prove that. That's historical. If there were eyewitness accounts who recorded it at the time and it was independently you can prove it. Science can't prove that. Science can't prove what I That's history. If I wrote it down at the time, if I videoed it and date stamped it, then that's history. That's not science. - So, it sounds like, Stephen, you're actually excluding and just focusing on the Isn't that a bit narrow-minded? - It might be considered narrow-minded. And I think people should be open-minded but not so open-minded Yeah? You look at the data and you use the data, you use the observations, you use the repeating of the experiments to narrow and exclude hypotheses. And what you are ending up And many people may not think but they do acknowledge There is a divine footprint. Life happened about, not by chance. Even the late almost Nobel Sir Fred Hoyle said the chance of even a precursor to life forming as if you filled the with blind men each with and they all came up with a He says it's a nonsense that this happened by chance. And by the way, Fred but he recognized on the basis of science that there was another force at work here. It's not a force of science, It was a divine footprint. - So you are saying that a scientific procedure where and you work through your data until you come up with And for you, that is a divine creator? - Correct. So, I've eliminated other possibilities. This is the only one that and fits the data. It doesn't prove it because it's not in the field until I can repeat the events that led to living organisms. Now, as a believer in a divine creation, I can't go and repeat those. So I can't prove it using As a believer in evolution, before I changed my viewpoints, I could not go and repeat the experiments that led to more complex And I could not refer to to watch the first fish and over millions and millions of years turned into a philosopher. That was not observed and it's not seen in experimental science. - So Stephen, I wonder if your journey from What is some of the evidence that evolution is a fairytale? - That's a ripper question. I might even go back a When I was doing my PhD, I with some very intelligent and capable fellow PhD students. One of them happened to be a believer in a recent creation, a young Earth. He was a Christian and he used to ask and challenge me and my colleagues with these scientific questions. I could never answer them. I never had answers to the challenging I used to feel uncomfortable I did not have an answer. And I also used to feel some of my peers dealt with him. They didn't answer his they didn't deal with the science. They attacked him as a person Sometimes it was nasty, sometimes it was just a bit humorous. But I remember feeling uncomfortable. I can't answer these questions. From a science perspective, I cannot answer what he's telling me. So, what did I do about that? I went on a great searching journey. No. I flushed the questions because I didn't wanna think about them. And it wasn't until much later that I was forced to think and think, my goodness, there's structure and that didn't come about by accident. There is a divine creator and the divine creator I - What are some of that you have personally found to believe, actually, this couldn't have come about by chance? - Yeah, there's some neat ones. My favorite element in the periodic table is actually helium. It's the second lightest element. I like it 'cause it's in helium I like it because during my PhD we used to have a cylinder of helium and you take a lung full, don't do this at home by the way. You take a lung full and your because the velocity of sound in helium is different from the But it's a fun element. But here's where it comes Helium is effectively alpha radiation we've heard of when parent radioactive elements decompose or decay through alpha particle emission and alpha particles just to The alpha particle picks up a It's really easy and it becomes helium. Now when this decay happens inside a rock, into inside a mineral grain, that helium is trapped in there. Now helium's a small it leaks out very quickly, which is why your helium balloon is got metal coating on the inside because if it's just a it'd be flat in no time at all. So, helium leaks out quickly. Now, you can calculate or in fact you can measure leaks out of the mineral grain and you can calculate how much helium should have formed in there because you've got the daughter And you find in these mineral grains there's miles too much helium. All of the helium should have leaked out over the millions and billions of years but most of it is still there. And so, what do you infer? The mineral grain must be young. - But if I have a different paradigm, I'll say there must be a because clearly the mineral grain is old, therefore there's some still in there. It leaked in. That's been proven not to be correct. There must be slower That's a wild assumption. Unsubstantiated. There are no explanations for this other than the helium shows, this must be a young mineral grain, not millions of years old. So, that was one neat piece of - What's another piece of evidence that you have personally found compelling? - All the molecules that if I don't put them in And I'm talking about some So they fall apart. So, precursors to living organisms, unless you preserve them in a careful way, they disintegrate. Another neat one is or optical activity. Now, let me explain that. - Thank you. - Yeah. So I've got a left hand and I've got a right hand. You know, I've got thumb, index finger, all the way through to my little finger. So, they're not identical though, they're mirror images of each other. I cannot put one hand on top of the other, superimpose them exactly I can superimpose them Now a lot of biological molecules come in left hand and right hand. So for instance, the proteins in our body, the amino acids in our body are left-handed exclusively amino acids. But when I make an amino starting from simpler molecules, I end up with a 50/50 So, how on earth did biological systems only come to be comprised That doesn't make sense. And if I get a soup, even starting with all left-handed, over time and it doesn't take very long, it starts decomposing, and before you know it, you've got quite a lot as well as left-handed ones. And if I take a peptide, a lot of amino acids strung together, and I substitute one of the left-hand, and one's for a right-handed one, I'm gonna damage its function. And often the damage to the function is sufficient to kill the organism. So, it's just, I don't even It's a fairytale to believe that these unstable molecules then you only got the left-hand ones, and they all survived I mean, I'm sorry. It's too big a construct for me. It takes more faith to believe in a natural origin of - What would you say to someone who says, &quot;But surely with enough time, with enough time, we could they would all be left-handed or where the helium would Or maybe it's just an anomaly.&quot; What would you say to - I'd say to somebody, well, if you keep withdrawing from the bank for a long enough time, Now the process is going in the wrong way. You keep withdrawing from And these molecules get They're unstable. Time's an enemy. So, complexity goes to simplicity. The only thing that preserves complexity is a designer, is an overarching system to control it. Living organisms can self-replicate, they can preserve complexity. But to get to a living organism, you go through this upwards cascade of processes. And along the way, along that journey, the forces are pushing you It's inexorable, it's pushing So by the time I've and I'm trying to make by the time I've got to 10, the first one's dropping off. By the time I've got to 20, By the time I've got to 30, I don't have it anymore. I don't even get to the 50 and that's only one of that needed to be self-assembled. So time's an enemy. - So you've spoken a lot about evidence from your field of chemistry. Is there anything from that you'd like to bring in? - This might sound a little bit arrogant, but the Chemical Institute of which I'm a professional member, I've used to say chemistry, And I sort of feel that So, maybe I'm just gonna or a peripheral chemical argument. - Sounds good. - I use one biological Fossils. Now, I've already mentioned that proteins are made of left-handed amino acids. So that's all you get. Now we can measure the rate at which the left-handeds and you end up with a 50/50. That's easily measured and it's over a short period of time. And it gets worse with temperature and with acidic waters and soils or alkaline waters and soils. So under the perfect environment, even in a freezer, you know? In years you're seeing the decay, some of the lefts becoming rights. Now you dig up a fossil and you're finding protein fragments in soils and in fossils and in rock strata you can Over thousands of years, the left has become a is what you should see. Instead what do you see? When you dig up something millions of years old, it's dominantly left-handed. - Why would that occur? - Because it's not millions of years old. There is no other explanation. So what do non-creator scientists who exclude the how do they explain millions of years old and they only see left-handed stuff? Well, they've got all these theories that are all proven wrong. They say, &quot;Well, it must be contamination. It must be recent contamination.&quot; No, you can prove that it's not. It must be preserved for Well, that is a possible hypothesis. Let's do an experiment under How do we preserve the left-handedness? And you find there is no chemical system which preserves that left-handedness So again, by process of elimination, and I think it was Sherlock that when you've eliminated the one remaining possibility, no matter how ridiculous Now that is gonna make But you know, the only thing that grows while it's comfortable is a potato. We grow by discomfort. So, if the viewer or at what I'm saying, and maybe even if they're because I used to get angry I encourage them, you think Use it. Look at the evidence, look at the data. What makes sense? When you see your name in the sand on the beach, you know there's a designer there. Living organisms are vastly more complex than a few billion grains of sand. Think where did this come about? There are no natural Therefore, I'm Sherlock. There's only one possibility, there is a divine creator. - Is there, in closing, - Yes. Thank you for the opportunity to speak. I mean, I do love talking about science, but more importantly than that, how this viewpoint has changed my life, turning it on its head, I just encourage people to that we've talked about because they are to the paradigm that you have. Thank you. - Thank you, Dr. Grocott, for your time. - If you've enjoyed watching this, you're going to want to You can sign up for it with a link in the and we will send you a free gift. (ambient music)