The importance of maritime trade for the roughly 80% of all goods transported worldwide nations continuously invest in maritime geopolitical influence by strategically But there's a single country in the future of maritime trade - Canada. factors - its extensive coastline, ice-free ports, factors is as crucial as Canada's potential is considered the future of maritime trade. unprecedented opportunities for economic growth, on the global stage. If all goes according to global maritime trade dynamics. Why? are exactly on board with Canada's aspirations But before diving into the challenges of what it is about the Arctic that makes it Let's start with the basics. located around the Earth's North Pole. adjacent seas, and parts of several countries. Number 1 is the star of this video - Canada. region, consisting of the Northwest Territories, provinces. Canada's Arctic is home to about Number 2 is the Kingdom of Denmark, which consists and Greenland. As you might know, the last the Arctic region. Interestingly, Greenland, is only 15% inhabitable, leaving room for just is covered in icecaps, as most of the Arctic is, For now, let's mention Country Number 3 - Finland. the Arctic Circle in the Lapland province. accounting for only 3% of the country's population in the Arctic are Ostrobothnia and Kainuu. Though this country isn't technically a its entire territory is in the Arctic region. The its territories - Grimsey Island, some 25 miles over 90 miles off the same coast. whose land mass is nearly 50% in the Arctic The Nordland, Troms, and Finnmark counties The Jan Mayen island people live in these Arctic territories, which is this isn't the only impressive figure in Norway's area covers nearly 580,000 square miles, the Country Number 6 is another Sweden's two northernmost counties - Arctic territories. Though these territories geographical area, they're populated with only Sweden's 10-million-people population. category of Arctic States. 7 on our list, is the Russian Federation. belong to this mighty nation. This The Murmansk Region, the Nenets, and Chukotka Autonomous Okrugs in their entirety the Republic of Sakha (Yakutia), the Republic The islands and archipelagoes in As many as 2.5 million Russian inhabitants live in the total population living in the Arctic. which could play a huge role in Canada's The U.S. officially became an Arctic The country's territories above the The North Slope Borough The Nome Census area interests in the Arctic, with maritime trade But why is the Arctic so The answer is simple - this routes and seemingly boundless opportunities. You see, the only reason these opportunities consequence of global climate change. wreak havoc on the world. For instance, the Maldives by the end of this century. of the melting Arctic ice as positive. Where The more the ice melts, the more developed get. This primarily concerns two routes - Sea Route (NSR). But we'll discuss these For now, let's explore the effects of the Of course, only one of these effects video - the increase in Arctic traffic. vessels entering the Arctic area increased was monumental in the context of Arctic shipping. ships led this incredible boost of traffic, respectively. All in all, the total traffic in the same period. these figures show no signs of slowing down. the total shipping trade worldwide could be This means that whoever controls the maritime tremendous economic and geopolitical advantages. the country in charge of this critical region, as territory. In other words, Canada considers this Of course, not all nations But before exploring the challenges surrounding why this route is such a hot "commodity." connecting the Pacific and Atlantic Oceans, North America significantly faster and cheaper. that finding this passage was one of the primary trade routes between Europe and Asia. These time. Columbus sought a navigable passage either ice, rough waters, or the Americas. unsuccessful each time, making explorers believe This all changed in 1906, when Roald and six of his crew members successfully It took them three years to travel from Norway of this voyage was well worth it, as it marked a However, it's important to note that Amundsen's easily navigate the intricate channels and Over a century would pass a successful journey through this passage. a Danish bulk carrier that traversed the almost Canada, to Pori, Finland, in 2013 instead shortened the crew's journey by four days, and saved as much as $80,000 in fuel costs. one more crucial thing - a proposed route from like step by step. Or better yet, stop by stop! Davis Strait in Nunavut, Canada. through Baffin Bay into the Canadian Archipelago. can continue toward the Beaufort Sea. and the ship could use it to exit into the For now, this route is sometimes only although some vessels have made the journey melting at the same rate, the region could be eliminating the need for this type of escort when this could happen, most agree that the more accessible between 2040 and 2059. opens for maritime transport, shipping patterns why would a ship traveling from Japan to the Suez Canal when it can pass through by as many as 6,000 miles? That's almost half the means half the cost. Talk about a game-changer! and Panama Canals would likely experience a and, naturally, revenue. At the same time, increase in traffic, influence, and revenue. Now, the Arctic countries are with established cooperative frameworks like and geopolitical benefits in the balance, To make matters worse, the eight countries we the only ones that could seek a stake You see, besides the eight member states of the However, one among these has the most to gain As an economy primarily based on manufacturing for crucial arena for economic opportunities. After world immensely more accessible, shortening help renew their competitiveness as rivaling to undercut China's manufacturing dominance. should come as a surprise: Safety Administration published a 356-page In 2018, China's officials declared In 2023, China's first domestically built Arctic Circle to begin a scientific expedition. international laws put in place. However, given claims and disputes, you would be justified in But what about the Arctic Council member states? waters of three countries - Canada, However, arguably the most significant U.S. and Canada. This probably comes as a between these two countries, as they have The problem lies in the designation As previously mentioned, Canada considers The U.S., however, advocates for the Northwestern allowing for complete freedom of navigation. choke-point might restrict specific countries waterway as an international strait, all nations without interference from the coastal state. though they're fully surrounded by Denmark, they grant the Scandinavian and Baltic countries access which offers ocean access to landlocked According to Canada, the Northwestern Passage The main difference? The passage's usefulness. of ships had to traverse a route successfully waterway. In the case of the Northwestern Passage, In addition, with no country in charge can be quite a dangerous endeavor. Why? There This means that if a ship went through this timely assistance and rescue However, if Canada were to charge passage fees it would have both the resources a robust search-and-rescue But then again, the total control over the essentially dictate which ships are means that the country would have a huge influence Let's say Canadian officials decide to ban Chinese while granting access to the Vietnamese goods uncompetitive for the Western markets, This scenario makes it even more evident However, most experts familiar with fully trust that Canada would adhere maintaining a fair and unbiased approach to After all, we're talking about a country that was Organization (IMO) in 1948, which sets the global sound shipping practices worldwide. In December Council, continuing its work in various Interestingly and importantly, one cooperation and protection of polar waters. International Code for Ships Operating in establishing safety and environmental standards of polar waters, including the Arctic. the establishment of an Emissions Control aiming to mitigate the environmental impact integral to the Inuit way of life. biotechnology that promises to yield Through the National Seafarers' Welfare Board, of seafarers, addressing the unique challenges through investments in the Marine Training indigenous people, and Northerners to pursue women make up only about 1.2% of All these moves clearly signal one thing - This should put any doubts regarding shipping in the Arctic region to rest. moves aren't simply out of the goodness of is that maritime trade is a crucial part After all, this country has the longest coastline Pacific, and Arctic Oceans, as well marine trade directly generated nearly 30,000 This figure meant that Canada was responsible In the same year, ports and marine shipping imports by value while accounting for $151 Canada Port Authorities handled almost Even with these mind-blowing figures, the potential for Canada and its economy. With over under its control, it's clear that the With the opening of the Northwestern Passage, underdeveloped regions in the far north. Also, if headed through this passage, these regions and logistics hubs, boosting their population. question to answer - how can of the Northwestern Passage to shipping? who can and can't pass through the Northwest between the U.S. and Canada. For instance, the the U.S. must request Canada's consent to send However, with the increased monetary gain started disregarding this agreement. This which wouldn't necessarily be limited to the U.S. the Northwest Passage belongs to it's fully under the country's control. It's never even implied that this passage would be said was that the journey through this Now, speaking of these terms, Canada has allowing free use of the Northwest Passage. Charging fees to users of the Northwest Passage it would reduce the number of ships traversing and its people. And two, the country could from investments in search-and-rescue capabilities could also use this money to help indigenous This option would likely make the passage for many groups and companies. This means other specific regulations on the users charging them is enough. This move could possibly ownership claims over the Northwestern Passage, as For option number two, Canada would allow by "free," we mean free of charge, as this option safety, the environment, and navigation. significantly more ships from all over the world, After all, Canada would be the country that Among these nations, Canada would probably Asian companies viewed the Northwest Passage expand their business. If they were allowed to more open to bilateral agreements that would Of course, opening the Northwest Passage to free Oil spills, pollution, and noise interference are impact the traditional way of life for the they would be for the environment, setting Based on these factors, you could option would be significantly more beneficial Now, there's just the small issue of getting to Canada's stance on the Northwest Passage. will - eventually accept Canada's claim on is the only way to prevent China and Russia countries have already been making somewhat wants is to see the Arctic fall into the hands of If the Northwestern Passage was the country could protect it, possibly But what do you think? Leave your Now watch "Real Reason US Bought video you might like.