One of the most common activities of human beings from the Iron Age onwards was the forging of this metal to make numerous implements, tools and weapons. Ivan Tomas, helped by David Castillo, is going to show us how metal forging was worked at that time. We are going to see an Iberian forge, how we are going to heat the metal to give it shape, in this case we are making a falcon knife. We light the barges in charcoal, we add oxygen to it so that it gains a high temperature, we heat the metal to red hot and when it is red hot we shape it on this anvil to sharpen the knife. Now is it a matter of getting red hot, Ivan? Yes. It has to gain temperature and the embers have to... We have to give it a lot of air so that it takes on a lot of temperature, there are a lot of embers so that the knife takes on a lot of temperature. Then we'll see, because the higher the temperature it gets, the better we will shape it and the less hard we will have to hit it with the hammer, the less we will sweat. I see that what the forge is, you have made the shape with clay, why is it that elongated shape? Because forges of this style have been found at sites and we have recreated one. Yes, the conical shape of the nozzle makes the oxygen come out much stronger and directly towards the base of the fire. Towards a specific point. Exact. This way it heats up much more. There you can now see how it is getting more and more red. More temperature, more fire, more red. He's catching, he's catching. Is it starting to look red now? Ah, yes, you can already see it. Now it's looking more red, huh? I can take it out now. Do you already have it then? Yes. It's already red. We can see it. And now I take the opportunity to sharpen it and shape it. Okay, let's put it again. Now we cover it again. Let it get warm again. In reality there is little difference with the work of current blacksmiths or with the last blacksmiths. The bellows that is more rudimentary, more laborious, more laborious to give to the bellows. And really little difference. It is more difficult for us to get the temperature with this bellows, and the rest is the same. Well nothing, it's red again and we continue with the same process, sharpening it. Although it may not seem like it, we are sharpening it more... The tip is bending. Let's warm it up and straighten the tip a little. And now we heat it to straighten it. We have seen how we have straightened the tip. You also don't have to leave it very sharp, because then the sharpening with the stone... Now it hasn't turned red, we haven't given it time. But come on, the process is the same, we sharpen it, we give it the shape we want. We would then heat this part and taper it to make the handle. That is, practically like this one. Practically like this one that we already have almost finished. We have narrowed here and we will continue narrowing, then we would make two holes and put some bone or wooden handles on it. Here we also made a slit to give it a little more strength and the edge is already a little sharper. Another work with metals consisted of smelting lead to make, among other pieces, bullets for slingshots. David Castillo, helped by Ivan Tomas, is going to show us the casting of these ammunition using the lost wax technique. David, we are here in a tent that you have prepared to do some of the work from Iberian times. What are you going to do? Well, we are here to explain the topic of metals. And one of the things we are going to do is melt leaden, lead, slingshot projectiles , in a traditional way that could be done even in military campaigns. What is the process? It is the lost wax system, a casting system that has been used since ancient times, both with lead, bronze and silver, which means making a mold using a wax positive. The bellows is made of leather, made of wood. Well, here we have the hole, at the top, with a leather membrane that when you inhale the membrane goes down and when we release the air the air pressure itself closes that membrane. The reed tube and air comes out to give oxygen to the combustion and reach a higher temperature. And the mud nozzle to prevent the tube from burning. Yes, we have the lead ingots. This could therefore be an iron element that any group of legionaries in the camp could carry. We put the bowl, with the lead ingots. Wax, which is a natural element, when it reaches a certain temperature allows us to mold it and give it shape. We are giving it the shape of a projectile, of acorns. These acorns appear in the sites, specifically in the Monzon de La Alegria site, a large number of these projectiles appear, it seems that they were used in Sertorian wars and possibly by Balearic slingers. Lead projectiles are much smaller than stone projectiles, but they have a similar weight and the lead has more density, which allows them better aerodynamics and greater range at the same weight. Here we already have a projectile and what we do is use several projectiles for the same mold. Here we have two projectiles joined together, they could be joined together more, and even make a tree shape to take advantage of the foundry and this shape here is the sprue through which we will pour the lead. Now we take the clay and we are going to cover everything well to make the mold. In other words, now you are covering what wax is. Exactly, let it adapt to the wax. So now you make a whole clay mold there, leaving this hole. Of course, even if we got here it wouldn't matter to us, but of course we have to leave a water trough there, first to remove the wax so to speak. We will do that in the oven itself. And then to introduce the lead. Normally they could have their own molds already made from carved stone or ceramics already prepared. We already have it, now we will have to wait for it to dry before we can cook it. Yes, we are going to put it in the sun for a while to dry and then we will bake it. And now the mold has dried. Yes, we have the wax inside, the clay is already dry and now in the fire we are going to melt this wax so that it comes out and the hole remains for us to later fill with lead. We are going to put it here so that it gains temperature. The wax melts at 90 degrees, it is already starting to melt. We see, it smells a little bad... What is this called the lost wax technique? Yes. Exactly. This has been used in sculpture and in Greek and Roman times bronze sculptures were made with lost wax. Has all the wax must have come out by now, has it melted by now? Yes, let's hope it's all melted. And once it has melted, that will be when we will pour the lead, which will have to be heated. Yes. Now we place the lead and let it melt. And it will be the lead that we melt that we will pour into the mold. We already see how the lead is melting, slowly but melting. We already see that it is melting, that it is easy, it really is a fire and a little air to give oxygen to the coal, which is not that complicated either. One of the advantages of lead is precisely that, the speed with which it melts. Well, the next step is to pour it over the mold we have. Now you have to wait for it to cool down. Now we have to wait for the lead to cool and break the mold? Exact. Now we have no choice but to break it and see if we have been lucky. Well, now we understand that all the molten lead has entered the gap left by the wax and now we have to break this mold, they are single- use molds. We break and the two acorns come out perfectly. Of course, you have to review later. Well, then this is cutting it and we already have the two acorns. Well, now we have to remove all these defects. In this case, in this mold, the clay has not been tightened well. And now we have two bullets there, two acorns. Yes, as soon as I separate them... We already have one, a projectile, which will be smoothed out, and even a blow here. It can be molded. Lead is so soft that it allows you to forge it cold. And this one, well, we have to remove this one's drinking fountain. The ammunition for slings are some of the pieces that have been found in archaeological sites, which testifies to their use in ancient times. Eugenio Monesma has come to Azaila to see how David Castillo makes a simple rope sling and shows us its use. Well, David, what primitive utensil are you going to make us now? Well now we are going to make a sling, a very simple sling with a braided rope. How are we going to start this slingshot? With a simple rope. We will have to take the measurements. You have to take into account that when braiding the rope shrinks, so the length is more or less, I have calculated that with a measurement like this I will get more or less the sling that I like. So, now we have it, with a knife you cut it. And we take out three strips. The first thing we have to do is this end with this hole so we can put our finger in and hold this end of the slingshot, which is the end that does not come loose, that always remains in the hand. So, for that we are going to start braiding backwards, outwards. We start braiding. It's simply a braid... Yes, it's making a braid like the ones you make in your hair, the typical Indian braid. According to ancient documents, they were made from horsehair, tendons, different elements, they can be made from pita. There are a wide variety of types of slingshots and ways to do it. Well, we already have this measurement that would be enough for the finger, so we join the ends in pairs. We join in pairs and braid now. Let's braid. Ah, in pairs, indeed. Yes. This is because the pressure of the braid itself makes it hold all this type of gauze, and we braid until we run out of short ends. Now, of course, there is going to be a sudden change, so one option to avoid that sudden change is to remove threads, we remove this one and continue with these. Now it is getting thinner, when we wear it a little more, we can remove this other thread. And we continue. Until leaving three. So the change is not so abrupt. This is then cut. And we continue. Now we have all three and this is already strong enough. This braid system , the more force you use, the tighter it becomes and the more it is prevented from unraveling. The sling is something that, just like the shepherds made their flutes, their boxwood spoons, well many also made their slings, they spent many hours in the mountains with the cattle and it was a matter of entertaining themselves. Now that we have a good piece, which would be half of it, we have to make the central part. Of course, two braids have to come from here and we only have one. Now we have three strands for the braid, but what we need is to take out two braids, one on this side and one on this side. For that we will have to add three new cords. Now we only need three small cords like this. We do all three and continue making the braid as before. In pairs. Exact. What's more, this will be very little bit? Yes, it is just right to hold the stone. This is if we wanted to make these strips even thicker, since it is a matter of adding more fibers. But in this case we are making two braids of three parallel. It must be taken into account that they have to be equal. And now the same. Now join them again. We take three. And now, we continue. As you did at the beginning. We continue braiding. And reducing the thickness. Now with these three ends we continue weaving until the end. To the extreme, yes. So this is a slingshot that you have divided the part where the stone will go into two, but there were others like this one for example, which are already made of leather. We do not know from archaeological data what they were like in ancient times, but as we have talked before they have been used traditionally. And there are many ways. This is a sling with leather. There are others that would be reinforced here with leather. Even those used by war machines, catapults and so on, is a similar system as well, a kind of slingshot with a leather cup. Then there are some that are woven with rope. Well, now we have reached the end of the braid and now we have to tie a knot. The knot that we have to tie is the one that is held with this hand to release. So it has to be exactly the measurement... half right from the bowl here. It has to be just the right measure. We see that it is there. And here we tie a knot, we have been lucky that it has gone just right for us. It is better to have extra length so you can cut later. Then you cut the knot, but in this case it was fair for us. And now we have the slingshot. Finished. Now to try it. Let's try it? We take the projectiles and let's test it. I move away a little just in case. We already have here to hold the stone. We check that it does not come loose. And now... The sling, which continued to be used during the Middle Ages as a throwing weapon, became a tool for shepherds who used to handle livestock at will. So let's go? Come on. Come on I'm Eugenio Monesma, director and producer of the documentary you just watched. If you liked it, I encourage you to subscribe to the channel by activating notifications from the bell and so you can enjoy the hundreds of documentaries that I already have on the channel and which I will be uploading weekly.