Iran's geographical position is a sensitive point at the crossroads of the world. Tehran as night falls, among the rumors of the party, a song of hope rises from the popular neighborhoods of Tehran. Tonight, Iranians celebrate Nowruz, the ancient Persian New Year. They commemorate the sacred fire which Zoroaster, the first prophet of humanity, entrusted to their care at the dawn of time. However, Iran today is accused of wanting to set the world on fire. Since 1979, Iran has set Islam ablaze and inflamed the Middle East. He challenged America, threatened Europe, challenged the world order. Since the Islamic Revolution, Iran has been scary. However, the war between Iran and the great empires has lasted for 100 years. It is a war for the domination of the secret fires of the Earth, a war whose object is oil and whose stake is nuclear power. Here is the story over a century, the story of a people from the depths of time who continue to seek their way between religion and revolution, domination and independence, the East and the West. This is the story of power revealed. IRAN: A power revealed Behind modern Iran, the civilization of the Kadjars has today been forgotten. It is here, at the Golestan Palace, that this dynasty, in the aftermath of the French Revolution, strives to resurrect the past glory of Darius of the Silk Roads and Shiite Islam. But the storms of progress are already arriving. The colonial powers are at the gates. This is what we call the great game, the confrontation between England to the South and Russia to the North for control of the seas between Europe and Asia. Already, Persia, caught between Iraq, the Caucasus and Afghanistan, is a powder keg and already, Persia, which will soon be called Iran, must submit to foreigners. It is a 14-year-old child who ascends the throne and announces the end of the Kadjars. The exhausted monarchy is faltering. His agony will last two decades. From 1905, in the darkness of the bazaars of Tehran, the echoes of European revolutions and nationalisms resounded . The street whispers, rumbles. The intellectuals, the bourgeoisie, the religious people are rising up. In 1906, Iran was the first country in the Middle East to have a Western-style constitution and parliament. This movement was against foreign domination, against agreements that undermined the national economy, against the weakness of the building of faith and against corruption. For the clergy, modernism was erasing religion. At the beginning, religion and revolution were not contradictory. At that time, religious people did not feel in contradiction with the West. Rather, they were attracted to Western progressivism as it was portrayed, particularly the ideals of freedom and the rule of law. There was general consensus among religious and secular leaders. Islam was very present in the spirit of the constitutionalist revolution, but it was a modernist revolution. Iranians woke up from their long sleep and realized that they were lagging behind global progress. However, modernity will not come from the alliance between Islam and democracy. It was the discovery of oil that would revolutionize the 20th century. Before 1908, it was said that in Iran, oil had been oozing from rocks since ancient times. They called them burning fires. Oil is a curse for all countries that discover it. In some ways it has been a curse, but also a huge blessing for Iran. It was the first country to produce oil with the English and this allowed it to develop in many areas. On April 14, 1909, the Anglo-Persian Oil Company was born. London asserts its power. Iranian oil becomes British. The United Kingdom at the time had the most imperialist regime in the world. He was trying to control Iranian politics and through the oil industry he also claimed to control Iran's economic future. The country's wealth was exploited and exported by a company that was not even required to train the Iranians who worked for it. So While Europe sinks into the horror of the trenches and Russia plunges into Bolshevism, Persia sinks into chaos. 15 years after the constitutionalist revolution, when the Qajar state collapsed, a new regime was established. He needed a new political ideology, new values and new thoughts. Reza Chah was the bearer of these changes. Like Ataturk in Turkiye, Reza Shah is a Westernist. For him too, progress is the national revolution, the army, industry, secularism. He had a lot of admiration for Ataturk. When Ataturk created a Republic, he thought he could be President of the Republic. So he sought... He sought to establish the Republic in Iran, but the Shiite clergy formally opposed it. Antagonism emerged between Reza Shah and the clergy. One of the measures taken by Reza Shah, such as banning the veil, was a measure to impose his own will on women in society. Just like today, the veil is imposed on women. Reza Chah established an education system that was inspired by Western schools and universities. This is what religious groups did not appreciate. He created a whole series of modern institutions. He imposed his measures, but he put the country back on its feet. In his forced march towards modernity, Reza Chah returns to his origins. Against the Shiite clergy, he resurrected Darius, Zoroaster and Persepolis. Persia becomes Iran, the land of the Aryans. Islam must no longer be just a memory. When he came to power, he believed himself entrusted with the mission of establishing a new ideology. The model that Reza Shah tried to impose in Iran was that of the nationalism that was current in Europe. But democracy and Islam are rebelling. Two parliamentarians, Muhammad Musaddiq, a secularist, and Hassan Modarres, a religious person, will take the lead of the opposition. Modarres was one of five clerics chosen from among the greatest theologians of the time to represent the Koranic schools in Parliament and control it. For Modarres, Reza Chah was the man of the English and not the nationalist he claimed to be. Mossadegh is exiled. Modarres, imprisoned, then summarily executed. Reza Shah, inflexible, has just reawakened the founding myth of Shiite Islam, this Islam of the disinherited which allowed Persia to remain itself by sublimating the ideas of resistance and martyrdom. Through his death, Modarres entered the legend of imams sacrificed in the name of God and in the name of the people. Today, in Iran, the anniversary of his assassination is celebrated as Parliament Day. The period when Reza Shah was in power saw Iran enter the 20th century, at a time when most countries were developing and progressing. Times had changed. A gigantic oil deposit was discovered in Kirkuk in 1927. The center of interest shifted to Iraq. Iran was no longer the only oil producing country in the region. It's Reza Chah's turn to rebel. In the midst of the rise of totalitarianism, Iran appeals for the first time to the League of Nations. In 1933, 32 years after the signing of the first contract, a dispute opposed Reza Chah to the British. The plunder of Iranian wealth by the Anglo-Iranian Company had to stop. Reza Chah managed to change certain clauses of the contract. The latter, with an initial duration of 60 years, ended up being extended to 90 years. You can imagine that such an amendment was not going to benefit Iran. This is why the idea of oil nationalization began to make headway in Iranian political circles. The defeat is moral, political, economic. Reza Shah believes he will loosen the British and Soviet grip by introducing a third partner, Germany. But with the arrival of Hitler in power, the dizziness of Europe once again inflamed Tehran. Reza Shah believed that if he collaborated with Germany and took advantage of its technology and economic know-how, he would allow Iran to achieve neutrality. Concerning Reza Shah's links with Nazi Germany, he was not alone. Iraq and many Arab countries were pro-German, because they were anti- British, anti-Russian and anti-Allied. Reza Shah's protests of neutrality , on the eve of the Second World War, will change nothing. Oil reflects Iran as the pivot of the world. The Russians invaded the country from the north and the British from the south. It was essential to secure access to oil. They divided the country and ruled it. The war was all that mattered to them and Iran could not escape sharing its spoils, at least at that time. They forced Reza Shah to abdicate. 30 years later, while in power, his son, the Shah of Iran, will remember this humiliation. In December 1943, more than a year before Yalta, Roosevelt, Churchill and Stalin met in Iran to orchestrate the end of the war. But the Tehran conference also announces a new world order. After Yalta, the world settled into the Cold War. Everywhere, Washington faces Moscow. Eastern Europe, Asia, the Middle East serve as their theater and Iran as their dress rehearsal. Iran and America make history. Iran and America have always had bitter-sweet relations and the history of these relations calls for rereading. It is a global drama that will be played out there, a drama in which the actors will in turn be the victors and the vanquished. It is a tragedy to which each of them believes they hold the key. Muhammad Musaddiq, returned to power as Prime Minister. Ayatollah Kachani, head of the Religious Party. Averell Harriman, special envoy of President Truman. The Shah of Iran, of course. Stalin, lurking in the shadows. And oil, finally. The real spring of the play which will take place on the shores of the Persian Gulf and in Tehran. In the spring of 1951, the Iranian Parliament voted to nationalize oil in an outburst of patriotic fervor. Before Nasser or Nehru, Mossadegh embodies the revolt of what was then called the Third World in the face of colonialism. Once again, Iran will serve as a laboratory. He was a great politician. He had studied abroad and obtained his doctorate in law in Switzerland. He was a true nationalist. He hated British influence in Iran. He believed that the only solution to ending this influence was to nationalize the oil industry and get rid of the Anglo-Iranian oil company. This was the time when eight major companies had a total monopoly on the global oil industry. They were very powerful and able to fight against Mossadegh's nationalization project. Iranians are quick to pay a high price for their newfound pride. The embargo imposed by the English is total. They aim to suffocate the nationalist movement. He is a physically weakened but politically determined man who manages Iran's affairs. The Iranian economy was subject to oil sanctions. It was the first such embargo in history and these sanctions deprived the country of export earnings. On the contrary, the embargo arouses sacred union. Returning from exile a few years earlier, Ayatollah Kashani will bridge the gap between the nationalist party and the religious party. He was a true patriot who spoke his mind for the good of his country. And because he was one of the highest-ranking clerics, he knew that everything he said had to be based on his own beliefs, which were also those of the people. Government nationalization delegates flew to meet British envoys. As viaticums, they take the Koran, the Colonna, the bland of the Grand Mela and one of the flags brandished by their supporters and which bear the inscription "If God is with us, what obstacle can stop us? >>it was necessary to closely monitor this process and maintain British influence , but also to deny the USSR access to oil and prevent it from influencing Iran. So there were these two aspects, oil and the Cold War. Because another party is watching, also heir to the revolutionary ideals of 1905. It is the Tudeh party, the Communist Party, which, on behalf of Moscow, is agitating the streets. This is the moment that the Americans are choosing to definitively enter the scene. President Truman dispatched an emissary, Averell Harriman. His official mission is to mediate between the Iranians and the British. As they have already done in Korea, as they will soon do in Guatemala, Indonesia and Vietnam, the Americans will choose to intervene in Iran. Their goal is first of all to contain the Soviet danger. But in Abadan, that day, Averell Harriman especially contemplated the irresistible decline of the old European powers. Washington will fill the void left here by London, elsewhere by Paris. In Iran, the global oil drama is changing directors. In 1951, Mossadegh gave the English personnel one week to leave the premises. Like Reza Shah, Mossadegh appeals to international institutions. He goes to New York, in front of the UN. The security council is neither the competent element to examine this complaint. The United Nations and the Hague tribunal recognize themselves as incompetent. The Old Lion wins a double victory, but Washington fears that the Iranian example will become contagious. America devoured by McCarthy's anti-communist campaign, balance between international law and control of oil. The Americans were lying. They lied to Mossadegh during his visit to Washington. They lied when they were nice to him. They lied when they said they would find a political solution. They wanted to find a solution, but one that was in line with their interests. They wanted to follow in the footsteps of the British who had dominated Iran for so long. Mossadegh wants a democratic Iran. He dismissed the communists and distanced himself from Kachani, then president of Parliament. In the United States, Eisenhower, newly elected, wants to resolve the Mossadegh case. His distancing from religious people was his first mistake. He forgot that if he did not have the support of religious leaders and the masses, he would quickly find it impossible to counter those who sought to infiltrate. The CIA and the Soviet secret service. Mossadegh used the Communist Party to balance forces, playing one party against the other. But I don't think he was a sympathizer at all and. Mossadegh was a problem for the United States and for the British. It was then that one of the darkest episodes in Iran's contemporary history, the coup d'etat, occurred. The coup was organized by Britain and the United States, mainly by the Americans towards the end. What was the plan? Overthrow the nationalist government, whether good or bad, whether or not he is in conflict with religious leaders. This method was the panacea for the Agency at the time. It seemed like a magic weapon, these secret actions carried out by the CIA. The scenario will repeat itself immutably in the four corners of the world, all the way to Pinochet's Chile. The putsch comes from above. The Shah appoints a soldier, General Zahedi, as head of government. But Mossadegh learns of it in the night. Mohamad Reza, who thinks he has failed, takes refuge in Europe. The confusion is total. The communists, the clerics, led by Ayatollah Kachani, the police, the army, the loyalists, paid by the American embassy, took to the streets. Symbolically, Mossadegh's house is devastated during the night. This is Operation AJAX, orchestrated by the CIA. Very easily, the Tudeh party, by recalling its activists, even by providing support to Mossadegh's opponents, allowed the coup to be completed in half a day. Driven out by Doctor Mossadegh, the Shah of Iran once again saw his cause triumph and returned to his country thanks to the counter-revolution launched in Tehran by his prime minister, General Zahedi, supported by the army and the police. He never forgot. He even always regretted having to depend on the CIA and the United States to return to power. The same crowd that cheered Mossadegh cheered the Shah and the statues that were torn down yesterday are now being put back in place. A chapter is provisionally closed in the tumultuous history of Iran. Reza Shah's son was initially quite weak. Person. But somehow he toughened up. Perhaps the CIA, by bringing him back to power, encouraged him to toughen up and establish a soft authoritarian regime, which he did. This was not at all the case under Mossadegh. This time the change was radical. Mohamad Reza took control with Savak and his henchmen and established a soft dictatorship. Relieved Western opinion will participate in Mossadegh's media linchpin. Iran returns to its solitude. In pajamas and dressing gown, Doctor Mossadegh appeared dying at the Tehran court. After which, the petulant Moribond had to drown his accusers in a torrent of eloquence which flowed for days. Everyone was exhausted, except Doctor Mossadegh, who definitely ranks as the first actor of the century. "Your antics far exceed Charlot " declared the prosecutor, asking for the death penalty to accuse him. Mossadegh is condemned to exile. His Minister of Foreign Affairs is executed. Ayatollah Kachani is censored, sidelined. SAVAK, the shah's secret police, organized the repression. A network of some 500 communist officers is dismantled. 28 leaders were shot. The students are repressed. On December 13, 1954, three of them were killed during a demonstration on the day of Vice-President Richard Nixon's arrival in Tehran. The ultimate symbol, Nawab Safavi, a fundamentalist activist who was the first to demand the establishment of an Islamic Republic, was sentenced to death and executed for the terrorist attacks committed by his supporters. Like so many others before him, he recited the Koran until his execution. Shiite Iran has its new martyrs. Before his arrest, Safavi had traveled to Qom to meet a young ayatollah who, for his part, refuses armed action and bets on the people. His name is Rouhollah Khomeini. The Shah of Iran believes he has eliminated all opposition. He is wrong. For centuries, since the assassination of Ali and Hussein, the prophet's son-in-law and grandson, Shiism has reenacted its great popular gesture of sacrifice. Like the holy city, with its theological schools, became the refuge of the Resistance. In desperation, only Islam remains for the Iranians. After the coup d'etat which allowed the return of the Shah and the arrest of Mossadegh, we were happy because we believed the propaganda. But very quickly we realized our mistake. The United States completely failed to realize how offensive it was to the Iranian people to put the Shah back on the throne. It poisoned the 25 years that followed. To lead the countries, we were looking for people who would not contribute to the expansionism of the Soviet empire. At the time, we felt that nuclear power was an important source of energy for the world. The Atoms for Peace program is strategic. By placing Iran at the heart of the Baghdad pact, the eastern counterpart of NATO, America wants to encircle the USSR. More than ever, Tehran is orbited by Washington, which is giving Iran its first nuclear reactor. Urbanization, industrialization, militarization. The Shah of Iran in turn wants to establish the greatness of Iran on the Western model. At the beginning of the 1960s, the young, inexperienced Shah, installed by the allies in the middle of a world war, gave way to a determined autocrat. He who wants to be an enlightened monarch, does he even know that he appears to be a Third World dictator? The formidable ruling machine that he has become ends up worrying even his protector. When John Kennedy came to power, he considered that the situation was the result of non-modernization, or even non-westernization of the system, both politically and economically. Action had to be taken in third world countries, otherwise they would all fall into the hands of the communists. It was out of the question to let all these countries enter the orbit of the USSR. We were in the middle of the Cold War and in the Third World, this war was waged through intermediary countries. We were forced to enter into a purely defensive pact, that if anything ever happened, we would not be alone in facing danger. We had to act. President Kennedy attended a fleet review before following impressive air and naval maneuvers from Onslow Beach, accompanied by the Shah of Iran. President Kennedy and the Shah of Iran then witnessed a landing during which 9,000 marines were to invade a beach. The maneuver lasted 24 minutes. This was, of course, only a demonstration. Like his father, the Shah of Iran is passionate about technology. By acquiring the most sophisticated equipment, Iran finances the American military industry. The Shah becomes the armed arm of the West in the East. Being one of the greats on the planet, this objective is already on the way to being achieved in the military domain. The Shah devotes particular attention to the military problem. Its massive purchases in the billions of dollars have placed at Iran's disposal a considerable and ultra-sophisticated arsenal. Tehran and Israel began to develop very close relations. In terms of security too, we have established links with the Iranians. They were sold military equipment and were in favor of implementing joint programs. Our two countries have become much closer, which has had considerable strategic consequences. Summit meetings took place between the Shah and Israeli leaders. There was a lot of discussion about the future of the Middle East, about how it was going to become a haven of peace, security, tranquility and hope, and not a region under the control of a few Arab, Sunni, extremist elements. It was at this time that Ayatollah Khomeini entered the intellectual arena that had been formed with the arrival of Mohamed Reza Pahlavi. At first, the imam did not want a change in regime. He only advised Averell Harriman to put an end to his relations with Zionism, with Israel. "Don't be America's slave," he told him. "Submit to Islamic laws and you will remain king. >> But the king of kings must submit to Kennedy's new America. We must make Iran a showcase for liberalism. He puts an end to martial law, privatizes the press, gives women the right to vote and above all, the Shah launches agrarian reform. It's the white revolution. It's a kind of socialist revolution which starts from above, which starts from the deadline of the poem. Quite. 20 years ago, I said a word to people here at home, even openly that, listen, if we will not be able to give our people and our countries an evolution. From above, we must expect a revolution from below. Which obviously put the entire landed aristocracy against the Shah, but also the entire Shiite church, because the Mullahs were among the largest landowners in Iran. The goal was to put pressure on religious leaders, especially by stigmatizing them, and try to establish a regime where politics would be separated from religion. This is what their revolution consisted of. The Shiite clergy, headed by Imam Khomeini, feared the despotism of Mohamed Reza. And he believed that the White Revolution and the revelation of the referendums would strengthen his despotic power. Like his father facing Madares, the Shah then saw Ayatollah Khomeini rise against him. In his virulent preaching, the master of kom attacks America, the reform and finally the monarchy itself. The Shah of Iran decides to put an end to it. In 1964, a plane took off with Rouhollah Khomeini on board, deported first to Turkey, then to Iraq. Iran never stops repeating the litany of its fatalities, the assassinations, the coups d'etat, the exiles. Mohamad Reza Pahlavi believes he has achieved absolute power. He has just opened Pandora's box. In this year 1967, like Napoleon, the king of kings jumps to the crown, light of the Aryans. The Shah is on his eleventh inauguration of a dam and this clearly demonstrates the unprecedented effort accomplished in this area. He built a number of hydroelectric dams in Iran. The state has become the magician, the dowser who strikes the province of the Inherited with his staff , builds a dam, collects water and pays for a vast irrigation installation. But reform cannot be enough for the absolute monarch. Erasing the centuries, the Shah of Iran decided to speak directly to Sirus, the unifier of the Persian empire 2,500 years earlier. The whole world is invited to the megalomaniacal festivals of Persepolis. Only one absent, the Iranian people. The time for reckoning has arrived. Iran has regained its glory. Once again imitating his father, the Shah rebels against the foreigner. The oil crisis of 1973 gave him the opportunity to demonstrate his power. When the oil runs out, you will be dead. The National Iranian Oil Company, along with national companies across the Middle East, have begun to lead the way. It was the first big oil shock. Prices have increased by 400% in two or three months. Combative, punishing, determined, arrogant, even. Mohamed Pahlavi stands up to the planet, multiplying interventions, declarations and interviews. The Shah takes over the media. Economies are faltering. The king of oil dreams of being master of the world. You, industrial state of Europe, why should you earn more in taxes than we earn in our perishable materials? When OPEC was created, its main objective was to have a say in determining the price of oil around the world. And the Shah of Iran was in favor of a toughening of the organization. You built your wealth, the flourishing of your industry and all this simply because of this cheap oil which came to you in floods. He increased Iranian production, but at the same time, he denounced the West which did not pay enough and always pushed prices to rise. No industry which could have the character of a cartel, of a trust, should be in the hands of individuals so as not to create cartels. There were many such agreements , secret agreements, but the cartel was powerful. The oil should be in the hands of the State and not of companies which have made profits of 500, 600, 700 percent this year. Nobody says anything about it. The Iranian colors flew over Versailles when the Emperor of Iran flew by helicopter over the prestigious setting that the Republic reserves for its official guests. His idea was to import nuclear technology to Iran. We are not able to find these new sources of energy. We have neither the possibilities, nor the laboratories, nor the technology. But you, the West, are. France was looking for partners. France has always believed that the peaceful use of nuclear energy should be made available to developing countries. This was the case with Iran. What can we buy in France? First your nuclear power plants. You are ahead in this direction, the Iranian nuclear program was set up in cooperation with the Americans, then with the French, both within the framework of student exchanges and in the creation of information and infrastructure linked to the Iranian nuclear program. The Shah of Iran, continuing his industrial investment policy, has just acquired 25% of the capital of Eurodif. In short, after the purchase of two nuclear power plants, technical cooperation agreements between the two countries, it is the turn of nuclear fuel. But in return for this Eurodif stake, Iran will receive 10% of the production of uranium enriched with latte stone. In addition, the Shah has just granted a loan of a billion dollars to the atomic energy commission, which, let's face it, will help to develop the French nuclear program. The conversations, which began face to face, continued at the Elysee during extended talks which allowed the two heads of state to take stock of economic cooperation between their two countries. All precautions have always been taken to ensure that what we did in terms of nuclear development with these countries could not be used for military purposes. The Shah of Iran, Mohamad Reza, then wanted to add the autocrat trophy to his royal hunting list. He said under all political parties, including those favorable to him, and he created a single party, the Resurrection Party. His lifestyle, the image he gave of his family, his walks in the West, his stays in ski resorts revealed a character, a family, an entourage that no longer had any connection with the Iranian population. And he lived under the illusion that he was popular. Peasants were pushed in front of him and they kissed his hand and he imagined that he was popular. We had a false sense of stability and security. Do you realize that it was on January 1, 1978 that Jimmy Carter made his famous speech? And by the end of 1978, it was all over. The bond that is so important between a monarch and his people, when it works, that bond has truly been broken. It eventually became apparent that the obstacle society was stumbling over was absolutism. Everyone harbored a particular resentment. One thought his religion was being violated, the other his freedom. Another denounced inequalities or corruption. The West, which was the partner of the Shah of Iran, was unable to impose on him to leave sub-popes and a political expression and the beginning of a constitutional monarchy which perhaps would have made it useless for the Iranians to resort to mosques and by Ayatollah Khomeini. Imagine what would happen if Iran adopted an unfriendly attitude towards, let's say, Western countries. Throughout these 14 years of exile, Imam Khomeini had time to meditate on the destiny of Iran during the century. Yesterday, spectator, here he is finally an actor. It is not as an opponent, but as a revolutionary that he will return to Tehran. Soon, for the whole world, he will embody Islamism. Before the imam's return to Iran, religious and secular movements had established relations with each other. They were all progressive and took the same path. And in the prisons where I was myself, there were all kinds of political tendencies. The first revolution was led by students, not molas. They are people who are seized afterwards. At that time, we heard a lot about activists engaged against the Shah's regime. We learned that they were arrested and tortured. We did not see in the Shah's regime a regime open to dialogue and capable of implementing the reforms to which the people aspired. But do you systematically consider any opposition to yourself, to your regime? No way. I am simply talking about Marxism, so-called Marxism. Because to our knowledge there is, in any case, quite strong religious opposition. No, that's not serious. But the Shah, blinded by the game between Moscow and Washington, does not understand that the world has turned upside down. However, in Iran, as everywhere in the Middle East, the revolution is now religious. Our movement was both revolutionary and Islamic. We, the religious people who followed the imam, made the revolution against despotism within the framework of Islam. These are people who would like to see things happen like they did in the Middle Ages. Some groups did not pay much attention to Islam. They were only interested in the revolution, because they were nationalists or socialists. Khomeini, contrary to what other movements envisaged, believed only in the fundamentalist and radical approach of Islamic militants. The religious people violently clashed with the students. The other groups had no choice. They had to join the Islamic movement. Before the imam returned, we founded the Provisional Revolutionary Council. On September 7, 1978, for the first time, demonstrators demanded the departure of the Shah and the return of Imam Khomeini. The same evening, a curfew was declared. The next day, Friday September 8, the army opened fire on the crowd gathered at Place Jalet. It's carnage. By counting hundreds of deaths, the blood of the people becomes the blood of the martyr. Ritually, Shiite signs merge with revolutionary symbols. For the Shah, it is already too late. Naturally, we must move towards democratization and we will adopt the same laws that exist in France. For freedom of expression, freedom of demonstration, we will copy you. And it is my will, after careful consideration, that this is the way to go. Carter told Giscard and other heads of state gathered in Guadeloupe that he considered the Shah lost. As for Ayatollah Khomeini, he came to France under regular conditions and settled as not a political refugee for whom he did not have the status, but as a foreigner residing in France. So we welcomed him, he went to Neauphle-le-Chateau. There, barely installed, he recorded on cassettes burning sermons that his Iranian friends transmitted to Tehran. And the loudspeakers repeated these fiery sermons on the roofs of Tehran, from one building to another. It was very effective and it became clear that Khomeini embodied the opposition. He used religion to stir up crowds. He gave a voice to the people. He structured his resentments which he translated into religious, as well as anti-Western, terms. It is Mohamed Reza Pahlavi's turn to head into exile. Since the beginning of the 20th century, Iran has lived to the rhythm of earthquakes. Before him, the last Kadjars, Reza Shah, Layatollah Kachani, Mossadegh. At the time of departure, does he remember that on this same tarmac at Tehran airport, he had his father's remains repatriated from abroad? The king of kings leaves the nation of Darius forever. He is stepping aside in the face of the return of this Shiite Islam that he had wanted to eradicate. Arrival day, last Thursday, as soon as the sun rose, more than 3 million people set out on the route that the Ayatollah would take. There. Thousands of farmers, often from far away, have been camped at the entrance to Tehran for a week. There can be no doubt that the only man in Iran who has more followers than others and therefore more power is Ayatollah Khomeini. He managed to transmit to the West an image of a kind guru, pleading for universal harmony and the happiness of peoples. And in fact, when we saw him land in Iran, we realized that there was a whole other dimension, an obvious ferocity of the character, but also an ability to lead, to take things in hand, to ruthlessly eliminate his opponents. With the arrival of Imam Khomeini in Tehran, the usual cycle of revolutionary violence begins. In the name of the hardest factions, Ayatollah Khalqali organized the purges. Reza Shah's tomb is destroyed by the Revolutionary Guards. The dignitaries of the old regime were executed on order by expeditious courts. It's year zero. This will be followed by the establishment of the Islamic Republic, the consecration of the supreme leader, and the fusion of civil law and religious law. Once again, Iran is inventing, once again, it is extremist. And once again, he points to the opprobrium of the planet. The problems of the world today have been greatly influenced by security, by the events of the Islamic Revolution, particularly the takeover of the United States Embassy. The hostage crisis began on November 4, 1979. Students decided on their own to take action as a student revolutionary movement. The initiative aimed to prevent any plot against the Islamic Republic, to safeguard and secure the integrity of the revolution. I received a call from my assistant around 6:00 in the morning. I then headed the operations division for the Middle East zone. Those exact words were &quot;They're climbing the wall.&quot; >>Activists invaded the embassy. A voice remained engraved in my memory, the one that told me "They broke the door, we have to go down." The phone was off the hook for a moment. We heard noises, then nothing. Were we aware of violating foreign territory? Yes, we were aware of that. We must place ourselves in the context in which the students made this decision. These were the first months of the revolution. The country was on the verge of chaos. The memory of the overthrow of Mossadegh, which was at the origin of the bad relations with the United States, had been revived. The 1953 coup against Mossadegh was a very dark episode in our history. It led to years of foreign domination, colonialism and dictatorship. We were aware from the start of Iranian resentment of the 1953 coup and the role of the United States. The event remained deeply engraved in the collective memory. The students felt that once again the revolution was threatened from abroad and that history could repeat itself. At no time did we think that this event would have such serious consequences. We thought it would take a few days. There had been no precedent in the world. But the complications that followed prevented the protagonists from finding a quick solution. Finally, after several months, we set up an operation which, while avoiding open war, allowed us to free the hostages. The so-called rescue attempt turned into a disaster for the US government. This episode was very humiliating for the United States. The American commandos are wiped out by a sandstorm. Ultimate humiliation by finally freeing the hostages Khomeini will favor the election of Reagan to the White House. But its smoking helicopter wrecks already herald other wars. Who won in the US embassy affair? Who lost ? Could this affair have harmed the revolution, broken Iran's revolutionary momentum, slowed down the progress of the Iranian Islamic revolution in the region? What is the connection between the embassy affair and the outbreak of the Iran-Iraq war? Even today, the walls of the capital continue to reflect the benevolent image of Imam Khomeini. But the icons of Tehran also tell the wounds of a nation at war, the memory of which fades less quickly than the pious images. The Iran-Iraq War was one of the most violent of the era and was fought between two of the world's largest oil producers. Iranian production suffered, as did Iraqi production, because the conflict mainly took place around the deposits in the north of the Persian Gulf. Warriors years in Iraq, was Saddam Hussein's war against Iran a collision of Western states against the Islamic Republic? Without a doubt. the three major forces in the region stood behind Saddam in his war against Iran. Everyone had their reasons for cooperating with Iraq. The West was losing its interests in Iran. The United States did not want a victorious Iran that would have dominated the region. As for the reactionary countries of the Middle East, they were afraid of seeing the revolution spread to them. The United States began helping Saddam Hussein by providing him with intelligence information, particularly technical information about the battles. Saddam Hussein was waging war against the spread of the Iranian Shiite revolution in the Middle East. He was fighting to prevent the Chinese from making a breakthrough and beginning to spread their extreme religious fervor in the region. We can say that in the West, the fear of revolution, of war, of the Islamic revolution and its possible repercussions throughout the Arab-Muslim world quite clearly outweighs the criticism that we can conceive of. towards the regime of Saddam Hussein, which at the time was still the image of a regime that was certainly very authoritarian and very harsh, but modernist. The Americans had the feeling, and Rene in my opinion, that the Iranians posed more problems than the Iraqis. We were alone. Iran and Iraq are engulfed in an eight-year war which will leave nearly a million dead on the Iranian side, as in 14-18, it is a war of trenches, gas, massacres, but also popular mobilizations. Millions of volunteers join the revolutionary army. The national cement is found. The religion of Iran is Iran. What happened during what we call the Eight Year War or the Holy Defense was a matter of free will, the decision to fight for freedom, independence, dignity, like all defenders of freedom around the world. Most of these young people grew up under the Shah's regime. They were trained by a very westernized education system. So they were not what we call zealots of Islam, fanatics. The fact that people were willing to die as martyrs did not mean that they wanted to commit suicide, but that they were willing to sacrifice themselves for something greater than their lives. He was only 17 years old. The war and the battles galvanized him. He was asked to wait until he was old enough for military service. He said no, I want to go to the front. He was martyred in 1983. He was martyred in 1983. He was martyred in When the war started, despite his desire to study, he was often at the mosque with his friends. He loved God, the Koran and prayer. The other essential point of the war was national identity. It has been a long time since the Iranians lost theirs, they lost the prestige of their past greatness. They were looking for an opportunity to reunite and the war allowed this reappropriation. It was the first conflict they had won in two centuries. Of all those present this Remembrance Day at the Martyrs' Cemetery, how many of them have lost a brother, a brother, a son, a friend. How could he feel close to a leader much older than them? Imam Khomeini was then 75 years old. How were these young people of 19, 20 years old able to establish this spiritual connection ? As the Iran-Iraq war draws to a close, Imam Khomeini dies. 1989, the death of their guides, is a century of disappointed hope that a nation finally reunited, but now orphaned, mourns. Amidst their cries and lamentations, how could the Iranians imagine that their mourning, like their revolution, would terrify the world? Since 1979, Iran has continued to sink into solitude. Outside, open wars are coupled with secret wars. Hostages in Lebanon, Paris attacks, Rushdie affairs, Eurodif affairs, Gordji affairs. International opinion places Iran in the dock. With the return of nuclear power, the confrontation is gaining momentum. The Shah of Iran who started it. Western support and applause. It's Ayatollah Khomeini who stops. We don't need that. And it is the Iranians who are starting again, the Islamic regime, who are starting again when they are faced with war and Iraqi attacks with chemical weapons. This is not some sort of priority of a raging Islamic revolution. It's a national reason. Like so many Reza Shahs and Mossadeghs, the international powers are heading back to Tehran. Europe, Russia, China are interfering. The discord continues. here is again the round of major world bodies, starting with the International Atomic Energy Agency, with a single question. What does Iran really want? Weapons of mass destruction are categorically prohibited by Islam. Nor can a statement of this kind be completely trusted to remove all concerns. And even if we were doing Islamic casuistry, we know that in casuistry Islamic, there are things that are prohibited, but in cases of emergency, in cases of vital necessity, we can come back to that. By signing the Non- Proliferation Treaty, Iran committed not to produce nuclear weapons. Do we think he's making them or intending to? Yes of course. The battle of images and words rages on. Iran blows hot and cold. Above all, war, the real one, is taking place in the region, everywhere, constant, obsessive. The first Gulf War breaks out. The missiles launched by Saddam Hussein on Israel herald the post-communist world. There was real emotion from the Iranian population. We must always remember this. It was the time when the Iranians, spontaneously, took to the streets with little lit candles, when the government had a few sentences of condolence, when the Mullahs, in their Friday sermons, stopped for several weeks launching calls for the death of America. What is strange is the reaction of the United States to this, ultimately, quite humane and predictable behavior on the part of the Iranians who were expressing compassion for the victims of the September 11 tragedy. September. We still have the strength to defend our rights. The answer was that Iran was part of the axis of evil. But it was Arab and Sunni radicalism , coming from Saudi Arabia, which struck America. Afghanistan is the cemetery of empires, it is well known. The Mongols, the British, the Soviets and today the Americans and their allies who make mistake after mistake. At the time of the American intervention in Afghanistan, the Iranians gave the Americans a serious helping hand at the time. But what happened was a kind of unfortunate coincidence, it was like a kind of tango. When one takes a step forward, it's the other who takes a step back. Until now, we have never managed to get to the point where, at the same time, there was one and a moment sufficiently favorable for both sides to be in the same state of mind. After Afghanistan, America continues its preventive war in Iraq. Protect Israel, secure oil, ensure democracy. Bush's policy in the Middle East involves the end of Islamic Iran. If Iran acquires a nuclear bomb, Saudi Arabia, Egypt and perhaps even Jordan will try to obtain it in turn. And the region will plunge into chaos. Leader in the region. He is a disgrace, a disgrace. Zionist regime, d eract If there is one thing that Iranians must have understood, it is that with Israel, you can expect anything. Rhetoric is no one's prerogative. The Israelis are also participating. But it was the Iranians who really stepped it up, who injected words and ideas that are simply unacceptable from a historical and moral point of view. But Israel too must face a changing Orient. In Lebanon, in the Caucasus, in the Persian Gulf, in Afghanistan, in Iraq, the Shiites are waking up. The rise of Shiism as seen in Iran is a phenomenon that stems directly from the decision to invade Iraq. Iraq can become Shiite. This country has a Shiite majority which must legitimately be able to claim sovereignty. The fear that has emerged among some is that the Iraqi movement risks influencing other Shiite Arabs around the country. The Shiites have a real ideological unity, the same sensitivity. They are a real force. What if the Americans had followed for several years the recommendations of many American personalities, notably Becker, and had started a dialogue with for adults, it would all look completely different. We would instantly stop talking about the threat of the Shiite arc. Iranian and also American leaders must overcome the stormy climate of current relations, assess geopolitical and strategic issues and try to pursue a rational policy. It is still possible with a little more determination and rationality on both sides, with a little less rhetoric and above all less insults and threats. The Americans and we can work together. Securing the Middle East is inconceivable and unachievable without Iran. Without us, there will be no security in the region. The people of Iran gave their blood and wealth to establish this historic position. All the Iranians have done during these years is make up for the contempt they have been subjected to for centuries. I come from a country where every morning, an earthquake occurs and where until the evening, people struggle with the consequences that this brings. And the next morning there is another earthquake. In 100 years, Iran has tried all the experiments of the 20th century. It was the first country in the Middle East in years to have a Parliament, to nationalize its resources, to provoke an Islamic revolution. Like yesterday, Iran will undoubtedly be a laboratory for the world of tomorrow. For his greatness and for his misfortune, he had oil and wanted nuclear power. During their long march towards modernity, the Iranian people have fought, often fiercely, to keep their identity. The question is not whether tomorrow we will deal with Iran, but with which Iran we will deal. This is an essential question for Iranians, for all Muslims and for the entire world.