Hi guys, thanks for tuning in to another I'm Ian McCollum, and I am here today at the Rock Island Auction Company where we are taking a look at the last version of Lee-Enfield rifle to be introduced into modern active combat service. This is an L42A1 sniper rifle. And these were introduced in 1970, but most of And the reason for that is that they were Number 4 Mark I (T) World War Two So, the British adopted the FAL, the Self-Loading Rifle, in 7.62 NATO. But the FAL wasn't really You would expect when the they are going to make a Well, nobody, not the British or anyone else, really succeeded in making a good It just didn't have the So the British Military kept its And interestingly it actually when 7.62 NATO was adopted things like The .303 Vickers guns were replaced But the Lee-Enfield sniper just kind And that's when this was adopted. Now you might find it curious that their existing stocks of We know the Indian government, convert their production in fact of The British never did. They did They were unable to get any really Apparently there were problems with and then patenting some of the And that led to some ... potential ... The early attempts to make a didn't fare very well in They were actually kind of Their scoped .308s were less accurate At any rate, it just really never worked out. And what's kind of cool is in this situation it that were pivotally responsible There were some competition shooters who also to &quot;Let's use an Enfield action But they figured out how to do it right. They ... cut down the stocks, they put and they made fantastically excellent And the military took note. And the military, which I should point out is not They are both the National Rifle very much different from each At any rate, the British NRA was actually So in 1970 the British would and they would adopt So let's take a look because a lot of the stuff on So things that were changed on the rifle. First off, the action was converted to the rimless .308, or 7.62 NATO cartridge. So the magazine profile and shape changed, And there were some like the extractor and the ejector were So, for example, ... if we can see it through but for example, there used to be an ... That's no longer in place on the L42 The cheek riser of the The stock and the handguard were both cut down, And a heavy barrel has been fitted. So this is a 27.5 inch heavy barrel. It brings the rifle weight up to 12.5 than the Number 4 sniper rifle, about a Kind of interestingly, the original Number 4 front sight In fact they had to turn down you see this is a little They had to turn down the barrel so that onto what was a much heavier barrel And the nomenclature changed, And D71, I believe that is a 1971 However, because these were you'll also find all the markings that would For example, we have which goes all the way back to when and was found to be of particularly eligible to be converted We have &quot;M 47 C&quot;, which is (still) And then a 1945 production date there. And the original rifle serial number: R39800. If you watched the Number 4 sniper (which is only about half surviving there), that T stamp was the final approval Now this scope base has been reused, so it and replaced with the serial number And we have the numbering So, as with the Number 4, these except you want, in this case, So that ... if you take this all apart, you know which The scopes remained the same, they continued And you can see that It's a little tough to read The serial number and the so serial number 28111, made in 1945. And they have re-marked it here on the opposite because they made a couple So they improved the waterproofing seals. And they also changed the range And after doing that they redesignated So the serial number is actually stamped twice, They just put a new designation Take a look at the elevation adjustment That is to remind you, in case you forget, that However, the adjustments remain the same: so The windage dial also remained the same, it In total, 1,080 of these rifles were And they would serve in the British Army until which was a bolt-action sniper rifle A proper modern sniper rifle, with all the However, that leaves the L42 as one of I mean the Lee-Enfield system was first and here it is not fully It's not the longest serving example, an early bolt-action system remaining in front What's kind of cool is when ... a lot of them were sold And in fact, a huge batch of them, well, were purchased by Navy Arms, And a lot of those came So, ... while these aren't common rifles, Now this is a particularly nice example that shows all the really cool World And if you'd like to see specifically Rock Island's detailed pictures, a lot of people are interested in those. You can take a look at their You can get there by way of Forgotten And that should probably provide you with Thanks for watching.