When was the last time you took one of these and especially with every roll of 3D printing thinking that you can't do any harm and they'll I've been collecting dozens of them over storage boxes and re-sealable filament bags. but after the tests that I did for this video These tests I did totally changed the way I Let's find out more! Guten Tage, everybody, So this is my box of desiccant bags that I from tiny 1g bags to really big ones! Their condensation within a package, if something then sitting on a cold shelf in winter or in air to reduce the moisture uptake in my materials of them to see what's inside? With most of them, on the inside. Cutting them open reveals the This is silica gel, which is a highly porous the material a huge surface area, allowing it to The bags the beads are contained in are made from like paper but is often a synthetic fiber, so This video is brought to you by PCBWay, your go-to a professional. If you haven't tried them yet, and uploading a file into their instant quote and fast their services are. When I have a part I don't have access to myself I simply head manufacturing to sheet metal fabrication and, most STL file, you'll find a wide range of printing different types of resin, SLS printing with nylon key, they can even laser sinter parts in aluminum, description in the quote tool and you can directly Check out their detailed material guide that I prototypes and projects, and I'm always impressed If you need a part right now or just want to check below! Thanks to PCBWay for providing a great Now, back to our desiccant bags. These silica in the stuff that I purchased. Yet I recently of desiccant pack has been becoming increasingly as well. If you feel them, they appear way just crushed-up silica gel. Yet when you open They hold a sand-looking substance. To be more has a similar hygroscopic property to silica gel. friendly alternative to silica because they basically a natural material that's dried. There around 25% lower moisture absorption capability easily at elevated temperatures. Other than that, even has better moisture absorption properties which is the area where we also want to seeing this type of desiccant being used by see even more switching over because they are not Another great property of clay-based dirt, it's non-toxic and can be handled package might suggest something different, and the warning might be for the choking major drawback - you can't really tell how they still work. This is where indicating there isn't any indicating clay desiccant, gel. The two ones that are common are in their dry the blue desiccant turns pink, and the yellow one come with safety and health concerns. The blue with a way more prominent color change, contains and potentially causes cancer. So I can only The orange desiccant contains Methyl but if you take a look at the safety not really the most healthy substance If I need more drying power than I usually use loose silica gel beads. In order to I usually do two things. I sometimes just mix my non-indicating one which is usually enough to I exclusively use non-indicating silica gel and hygrometers I toss into any of the containers in the description, by the way that support above around 25% relative humidity, I know is another benefit to not relying on colored silica gel sometimes changes color way too late So now that we understand what common types that I also just regularly tossed into my storage desiccant bags that were slightly transparent fabric bags are simply white, and you can't really of the package. I did a test and opened six bags was interesting to see how different the amount used the typical bags with around 5 g of material. bag, whereas Polyterra and the Nylon had huge bags with a wet sponge to increase the humidity so that days. Most of the samples were only able to pick lot in a 90% relative humidity environment. This saturated inside the bag. The real outlier was the to pick up 24% weight. Regular plastic bags will the bags are sealed, moisture will get into the it fully saturates. The Milar bags, on the other moisture through, so even after several years in like new and also the filament itself was bone I dried all of the desiccant bags in my toaster filament only got a tiny bit lighter than when means that it was really able to keep the filament moisture, which showed that they were pretty much So, if you toss these into your box of filament or which means they will not dry your filament where's the catch? The problem arises of filament out of the oven and put it The material is usually so dry that it will I demonstrated this right here. I put a roll a few hours the humidity dropped to around I dropped in a bag of silica gel that was inside the box sharply started rising again So what happened? Desiccant doesn't only give up but it will also lose moisture if the environment This is nicely shown in this graph right here. at 50% relative humidity, but at 20% humidity, moisture in a humid environment, in such a case, will make the inside of the container more humid will absorb some of it. So, in such a case, you want to keep dry can even make things worse, Should you then throw your collection because they can be very useful if you properly treated like single-use items, they can be but it can also release it again, if you between 100 and 120 degC is recommended. can remove from your desiccant. Yet higher and we'll talk about that later. By the way, online, also clay-based desiccant can be In the past, I used to dry my loose desiccant in want to have you indicating desiccant anywhere different silica gel drying methods, to find out Our baseline will be a toaster oven that I modded the temperature very precisely and is monitored by never tried, but many of you suggested, is using that some use their filament dryer to regenerate from Creality. Finally, a convenient feature that filament drying mode. This honestly isn't anything a long time without disabling it after a bit, dry stuff with their printer. And if this can The desiccant bags I had were mostly pretty small the best. That's why I prepared these Nylon mesh has been sitting outside in my studio at around so it's perfectly and equally saturated. Then, I bed of my Bambulab X1, and inside the toaster came with a Prusament spool to see if we can also got them out of the devices to measure their lost a substantial amount of weight. The bag out the one from the printbed 15%, and our reference the clay desiccant out of the oven was, at that I was able to monitor how the desiccant fully but was able to reduce the weight of the silica would usually be not enough to properly dry the on the bottom where it gets almost to 100 degC which The heated bed was also pretty fast, and after 20% of its weight. The toaster oven set to 110 to remove the highest amount of moisture due to 23% of its weight within two hours and was also a plausible value considering that bentonite So the contained moisture, of course, into the hot air. I was clearly able to notice especially once I opened them the first time. this moisture might condense on colder surfaces can only highly recommend not closing the printer, some air circulation. This might not only save because once the air is saturated with water, go anywhere. With a bit of circulation, But how did the microwave oven do? I put my oven into defrost, and let it run for doesn't have a defrost option, don't worry, power setting. A typical consumer microwave can't so the device where the microwaves are produced, output, the magnetron is simply turned on and version of PWM or pulse width modulation. My 700W for 13 s and then does not emit any microwaves around 40% or 280W of its rated output power. When was already able to feel quite a lot of humid air microwave is designed for that, so you don't need checked the temperature, which was already around showed that it already lost 19% of weight especially if we compare it to the other methods. minute, and put it into the microwave for another which shows that you need to be a bit careful remove another 2 % of the moisture. After two more in total, getting me to almost the drying level of And this was one of the mindblowing things for me for drying desiccant, yet I wasn't aware that something new, please consider leaving Before we try out if this works similarly for our usage of the four different methods. I hooked an The filament dryer only used 60W on average, oven consumed 288W when it's set to 110 degC, and the devices is significantly different, yet also from around 20 minutes in the microwave to the picture and makes the microwave the most run and over half a kWh using the toaster oven. Even though we've just seen that around 20 minutes drying times will change depending on the amount also the other devices. So I have these big silica desiccant. A hygrometer shows the moisture level 25% anymore, I usually dry my beads. So I poured the microwave, and did the first 5 minutes run sure that you only have a thin layer of silica escape. When I opened the door, a cloud of steam during the first cycles. Compared to the last and the temperatures were still far below what takes longer to heat up everything. So I slightly second time, after which we lost 6% of weight. All of cool-down in between, to get to a satisfactory moisture from the 210 g of silica gel, which is before, simply because the silica in my AMS wasn't and after only a couple of hours, my AMS So this shows that depending on the amount of adjust your drying times. Unfortunately, the sufficient to judge whether it's dry enough or a color change far before it's really dry, and once you heat it above 120degC and might simply is simply weighing your bowl, but the even easier the microwave. Once it feels completely So I realized that it's really easy and efficient but how well does this also work for the desiccant to let out all of the moisture in a short amount gel on the microwave plate as well as a big and a everything for 5 minutes. The thermal camera bentonite clay bags got really hot, like above 130 melted one of the sides and destroyed the bag, let them cool for a minute or two, and started feel the humidity coming out of the microwave was also easily able to feel if the desiccant bags a little wet, a ton of condensation formed on my The clay desiccant in its very breathable fabric 5 minutes and finally lost 15% of its weight took way longer to lose their stored moisture. some time to warm up but dried out within four on the other hand, with only 4 g of silica gel, forming on the inside. This was probably due it uses as a packing. You see, when silica gel until it absorbs moisture from the environment doesn't need to be super porous so you need to bags are simply not designed to be speed-dried. I didn't have a problem being regenerated this time to cool down between the cycles. Most of four to five 5-minute cycles. The small ones even You might be asking yourself if we damage the microwave. You can, of course, damage the silica power. I was regularly able to hear beads when the silica was still very wet and when damage over time. I microwaved this glass and not only did the silica gel balls explode, shattered and even burnt the cork matte that you'll be risking melting or even burning it, temperatures will also destroy the indicating and even check temperatures using a drying works surprisingly well, and they retain microwaved bags into a filament storage container some others in a box with a wet sponge that bags were easily able to pick up all the moisture way for the desiccant will still be drying hours because this gives you the most amount of water without exploding. And I was also able So what does this all mean now? Well, first of bags into your storage containers is useless additional moisture that's being released. Yet, if you regenerate them before use! Drop them into an old toaster oven, or what I will be doing, few minutes. Once they are thoroughly dry, put ready to use when you need them. And the same even considering going back to packed silica gel it saves me the hassle of having tiny beads all roll of PLA, PETG or ABS can hold around 5g of I would use at least 10, better 20 g bags for of water per 1 kg spool, you should really dry because they will use up any desiccant fast! I'll in the future. If you're careful, which means and keeping indicating desiccant away from this is the fastest, most efficient, and even clay-based desiccant. Regularly drying sure that it really works as it is supposed to other humidity-related problems. But let me Have you been throwing them away, or did you