Theme from McLintock (singing) Love in the country Where skies are blue All you'll be dreaming of Are the birds and the bees And the flowers and the trees 'Till you're up to There's a tree below the mountain peak The perfect place for lovers when they play hide and seek There's a coverage where the horses always stop Between the tree house that's how mom won pop By makin' Love in the country Where skies are blue All you'll be dreaming of Are the birds and the bees And the flowers and the trees 'Till you're up to There are roses on the trellis and the scent of The clinging vine is jealous on the fence across the way There's a great and a breeze to Between the roses A fella can't go Love in the country Where skies are blue All you'll be dreaming of Are the birds and the bees And the flowers and the trees 'Till you're up to (horse and (children yelling - Lord to (horse neighs) (footsteps down stairs) Howdy Drago! - Morning, Curly. - Makes seven times this - Six. - Seven. Once was his birthday; Give me my buggy whip. Didn't have anything but two raw eggs - No! - Curly! - Yes, boss? - Don't say it's a fine Get out of here, Bunion! (cow moos) Good morning! - (children all together) - Carlos, what are - I hope I get it this My brothers...they got - All right let them have at it. (pistol charging) (gunshot) (children yelling Get over. let me drive? You promised me - No! Heyaa! - Boss, you better watch You're gonna kill both - Heyaa! - Thank you, Mr. Boss. (triumphant music) (cattle mooing) (whistling &amp; mooing) - You got cattle (whistling &amp; mooing) (loud mooing) - Heyaa! - Give it up! Heyaa! (mooing &amp; whistling) (horse neighing) Keep 'em going! Fifteen cents a pound all (triumphant music) Heyaa! (triumphant music) (buggy rattling) (triumphant music) (buggy rattling) - Now, Boss there's I wished you'd pass up. - Bunny? - Yeah. - Wish I knew where I'd - He ain't an old-timer. He's just been around - Ohhh, you have no milk - Morning, Mr. McLintock! - Morning, Bunny. - Well, I can see - Never felt better...contrary - Me...my kidneys ain't and my liver's being - Drago. (Drago grumbling (coin hitting the ground) Hello, Ben. - Hey, McLintock. (cattle mooing) - Drago, throw - Yes, sir. - That's a scrubby - They are, at that. - That ought to Lining his pockets - What are we gonna do? - I don't know what Me, I do nothing. - 200 families, a quarter of beef a If they last two years that - I've got 20 head to one of any other brand I'm not hollering. - Some of us haven't got Some of us ain't and feel like being put upon. - You interest me - So the first time I wearing our brand hung on I aim to kill me a plowboy. You do what you want, McLintock. We'll do what we want. - Fellas my age generally Youngsters call - All right, Mr. McLintock. Not because I'm afraid of you. You're the big he-stud and I reckon a fellow my - He's full grown now, GW. He's a half owner I made him a full gave me the long face. - Well, you want him this territory becomes - Of course I do. - If these settlers there'll be a lot of hollering that this country's We'll go on being a with a lot of political according to what they where they think that cows and Indians are something (train chugging I'm looking to you to - I'll do what I can. (train whistle blowing) - Come on over to the we'll rack up a - GW, that'd be just fine. (station bell ringing) (men yelling at cattle) (cattle noises) - It's a nice - Everybody's entitled - Like that again, eh? Here's something About 1,000 head; I figure - They're not as fat They all off the North Range? - Yes, sir. (bodies milling about) Settlers. Every one of them with and not the slightest idea (cattle mooing) - Drago! Drag out that hogleg. - Yes, sir. - Get me some attention. (gunshot) - Yee haw! People, People! Come on all of you... People, come on... - I'm McLintock. You people plan to homestead - Yes, sir, the government - The government never Some years back a They had a pretty Good summer...easy winter. But the next year the and by June even had sense enough to - Folks, do you That's McLintock. George Washington McLintock. - I told them that, Douglas. - He controls the water rights on 200 square miles of range. You know that lumber you got? It came from his land. Cut by his loggers and - Douglas, I come a couple of times Saddens me I didn't. - Can you imagine a Oh, and mines too, I All that...and he's a measly...a MEASLY 160 acres. - That right, Mr. McLintock? You begrudge us a - There's no such If you make these homesteads go, you'll have earned But you just can't make God made that Serves pretty well for And even the that you can't farm 6,000 - Any trouble, Mr. McLintock? - No trouble, Sheriff. (cattle mooing) (cattle mooing) (cattle mooing) - How about you, Douglas? - Douglas? Just plain Douglas, eh? And you call him Why? - Well, Douglas, I guess (horse neighing) (men murmuring) - Mr. McLintock? - Yeah. - I'm a good hand with I'd like a job. - Well, you look strong enough. You come in with those sooners? - Well, yes, sir but we - Can't use you. (train chugging past) -Heyaa! (train chugging past) - Tough life ain't it, sonny? Hell, ain't much future being (horse hooves trotting) - Ladies, this is the finest Chantilly lace - &quot;Shan-te-ye&quot;, Mr. Birnbaum. - Well, believe Oh, excuse me please. Look around, take your time. Drago, I got 1,000 Havana cigars and 12 of those hats - Them twelve big hats the way some folks into that red eye these days. - Uh-oh... - Good morning, G.W! Good morning, I stole - Please help yourself. (door opens) Davey...you can forget about Come in here. - Problem? - Yes. - Well, if I were blacks, I'd move queen's - Yeah, you might be right! You know I was just when the letter came! - Letter? (door opens) - What happened don't - Morning, Mr. McLintock! - Morning, Davey. - You being here Oh...that hat and you picked out well, instead of I'd like to have this one. If it's...all right - Oh that's all right Of course, that looks a fellow would wear down - Oh I don't need a All I have to do is and some wiseacre will and just like that - Davey...the letter? And you ARE an Indian. - Yes, I know I'm an Indian. But I'm also the I've got a and I'm the railroad But does anybody say, or, &quot;Hello, runner&quot; No! Not even, - Davey. - It's always let - Will you go out in the - All right. I'm also Always, let the Indian do it! - A lady brought that asked for it to be taken out Handsome lady, kind of Called me &quot;Mr. Birnbaum&quot; just as and as if that veil would keep me from I though she was in New - So did I. - Jake, you better extra cases of the That stuff sure gets used - Which reminds me...you - Hehhh! - Katherine's in town. - Katie?! - Ladies. Morning. - Morning, Mr. McLintock. - Hi Mr. McLintock! - Morning. - Hello Mr. Mac! - Fauntleroy. - Good morning, GW. - What are you doing in here? Why aren't you out at the desk? - Helping out the bartender. - Yeah, I see a busy day. Give me the key to Room 17. What? - 17 and don't advertise it! - Here they come, Mr. McLintock. (bodies bustling - Set 'em up. - Beer! - Day off? - Off day. - Wonder what he's - Haven't YOU heard? - No, what? - Katie's back in town. - Katie? - Yes, dear the social arbiter. (women laughing) Well, hi, sonny. - Good morning...ohhh! (women laughing) - He sure is a polite one! - Mr. McLintock...I - I'm sorry boy I (door unlocking (door closing) Katherine. - George Washington McLintock. I thought you'd want THIS. (table rattling) - First dig of the spur. But who am I to (liquor pouring) Don't you feel kind of silly? - I never feel silly. - It's because you Why couldn't we sit down and talk about whatever it Or why couldn't you just - And have everybody - Everybody knows and We're married! - That is something I (paper rustling) - You know the answer, Katie. That isn't why you sent for me. Let's get to the rat killin'. - That's just the kind of remark that's always - Let us open the discussion. - Very well. Our daughter is coming Rather she's coming HERE. It was just a slip of refer to this ugly - Our daughter... Is it so hard to It's Becky. - Rebecca! I hate that name! Anyway, she's coming home. And I hoped to persuade part of the time in the capital, part of the time in New York and of course Newport - You're whistling - If she stays here she'll and as vulgar as - And if she goes your way No go, Kate. - I hate you! Oh, how I hate you! - Half the people in (door slams) Why does it have to (gasping) - You animal. - That's the story. I saw your picture in the You were dancing - At least he's a gentleman. - I doubt that. You have to be a man first He misses on both counts. (door opens) (door slams shut) (sad romantic music) - Hey, sonny...you - Nope. - Hey boy, you gotta pocket You better listen I'm telling you, Human nature - gets - Mister...leave me alone. - Everybody does it (scoffing) (buggy rattling) - About that job, Mr. McLintock. - I already told you, son. I've got no need for - Just one minute, My father died last month. That's how come we I've got a mother and a I need that job badly. - What's your name? - Devlin Warren. - You've got a job, son. See my home ranch foreman (Bunny scoffing) - Step down off of (scuffling) (horse neighing - Hold that hogleg! I've been punched but never for hiring anybody. - Ahhhhh, I don't I never begged before... Turned my stomach. I suppose I should've been - Gave? Boy, you got it all wrong. I don't give jobs, I hire men. - You intend to give this don't you boy? - You mean you'll still Well, yes sir! I mean I'll certainly - For that I'll pay You won't GIVE me anything and I won't GIVE you anything. We both hold up our heads. Where do you live? - The settlers' encampment - That's your plug? - Yes, sir. - Well, hop on him and (upbeat music) - Heyaa! - Heyaa! (upbeat music) (liquid pouring) - Morning, Mr. McLintock. - Morning, Mr. Pourboire. - I'm sure that are interested in portion of this new land Oh, ah...Jones and McAllister, more or less the I'd like to have you come up - Won't be a (horses trotting) - Go after that boy Tell him McLintock pays his - From the looks of things - Oh Mom? This is Mr. Drago. - Morning. - Well, and to what from the cattle baron? - I've got a touch of Don't push me. - Ohhhho, McLin! - Say, those are Indians! Are there Indians in - Friendly Indians, my boy. - Ohhhho, McLin! - Ohhh, Running Buffalo! - Ohhh, McLin! Long time - And it's gonna be 'Cause it's against the law, - And have I got They came into town The old Indian chiefs - I heard they'd been pardoned. - They don't know This week, next So in the meantime I've got Could I cut out a couple of head of your steers to feed them? Otherwise, some of these are going to disappear. - That's right, McLin! (GW laughing) - Cut out whatever you need. - Sheriff! Are you with all these settlers? YOU'RE asking for trouble! - Mr. Douglas, I already Please stay off my back. Running Buffalo...bring your (horses and bodies bustling) - Hello, Mr. McLin. - Tiny Mouth! It's You wouldn't believe it she was a mighty - 20 years ago you thought (Mr. Douglas - It was just like this; I had a dead bead on and my Sharp 50 That was back in that - I remember. - You wanna taste something - No. Where'd you get this? You thinking the She's a widow woman, boss and she's got a long - Hire her. (heavenly music) - I always said you - Mr. McLintock, - Your mother?! - And my sister. - Pleased to meet - Ma'am, this here's my boss and he has a few choice words to say about your biscuits! - Yes, Mr. McLintock? - Well... They're great! (tense music) Well, you old Cantonese - You fire me...I kill myself! - I'm not talking about You've been rustling We're gonna put All you'll have to do is give - I kill myself! - I may save you the trouble. - Look, Ching... If you kill yourself I'll and you ain't never - I'll be one of the family? - I give you my solemn word. - Pretty crummy family! Drink too much... yell all the time! - Cut off his pigtail! - Alright, alright! I'll (yammering in (dinner sounds) - I hope everything This is such a big house, it'll take me a while Now, please don't hesitate to - No bird's nest soup! Otherwise, just fine. Everything all nicely. Finally fine. - Best apple pie I ever had. - Curly's right, ma'am. Hated to leave that last bite. - Shall we celebrate - Carlos... come and Alice, do you want to help, too? - Yes, Drago. - All right, pitch in. Now, I'll wash and Is that good? Here. (carriage rattling) - Don't seem possible one woman could use all of them clothes. - You keep a civil tongue in - Yes, ma'am. - Yes, ma'am. By the way what does that (door opens) - Mrs. McLintock! - Oh, hello, Carlos! Run and help the I couldn't trust anyone to do anything correctly. - Luggage? Give him a hand, Curly. - Yes, boss. - Are you moving back in? - Yes, but nothing has changed except my place of residence. And I'd be willing to rather than be denied the And I'm proving that - Mr. McLintock, since would you excuse me if I-- - Go ahead. Oh Katherine, He joined the outfit today. - Pleased, ma'am. - Thank you. Well, how refreshing! A polite young man here. Where did he come from? - He's a farmer. - A farmer?! Kate, welcome home! - What on earth are you doing in that idiotic looking outfit? And don't you dare - That's my butlering suit. I'm butlering for the boss. And I'm sorry, Katherine, from the times I remembered People! (Katherine gasps) - Are you going to stand there with that stupid while the hired help - He's just ignorant. He doesn't know any better And I can't help I started acquiring it as you - Mrs. McLintock, where Put them...? - Put 'em in the (dramatic music) - Yes! But move Mr. McLintock's The one back of the so that he can't wake when he comes home every night... - just before daybreak! - Yes, ma'am. - Oh, excuse me! Here's your cigars, - I am MRS. McLintock. - Kate...I mean Katherine... Errr, this is the lady does - Mrs. Warren... - How do you do? - Very pleased to meet Very pleased. - Likewise. - You see I just came and I guess I jumped that this was a...a - It is...and then I will explain so everything will be quite - (All) Mrs. Warren! - Mrs. Warren, It has been a for quite some time. And it will be again just which will be as quickly to take my daughter You see, she's coming home and then we'll be off together, and you can return to as you consider proper in - Katie! - Shut up! Until then, I am And I will give the orders! I'll want my breakfast - Ain't you gonna - No! tea, toast... Oh GW, as soon as my I want to talk to - Yes, Mrs. McLintock. Indeed, Mrs. McLintock. Of course, Mrs. McLintock. - The toast lightly - Of course, ma'am. - Wait a minute now Boss where - I just remembered - But she said she - I heard. (door opens) (door closes) Good evening, Lem. - Good evening, Mr. Mac. (carriage rattling) Say, Mr. Mac, what does - I was called that once, Lem. Looked it up in the dictionary. It's best you don't - Thank you! (carriage rattles away) - Hey! What am I gonna tell her - When in doubt tell the truth. She wouldn't expect - Where's Mr. McLintock going? - There he goes burning You see a yellow streak running up and - On Mr. McLintock? He ain't afraid of NUTHIN'! - I once thought that. (footsteps up stairs) (door opens) - Drago? - Yes, ma'am. - He took off, lit out. - I told him I wanted - Yes, ma'am I was standing and I was standing right out when he walked up the horse, stepped up on him and sunk spur. - Where did he go? - Last time I saw him but you know him, he's liable - Get me a carriage! - Yes, ma'am, but... - But what? - Maybe you shouldn't maybe, where he's going into. - What does THAT mean? - I don't know but I - Well, just get - Yes, ma'am. - What happened? - Get the barouche. - Hitch it up, she - But Mr. McLintock never - Look, young fellow I'm the ramrod And you better start or you going to get pulled down on your head. - Yes, sir. - Hello, Davey. - Hi, Mr. McLintock. - New broom, eh? - Sweeps clean! (lively saloon music) - Hello, Bunny, - Oh fine, fine I'll get you next time! (lively saloon music) - Two more, Elmer. - Coming up. - Well! Look who's here. - What'll it be Mac? - Ladies. Evening, GW! - Jake. - Wrong move. - What? - Chess problem... (doors banging) (lively saloon music) (horses &amp; carriage (Dev trying to control horses) (Katherine yelling - I suppose you can do that! - Camille...you're (door slamming) - Mrs. McLintock. - I'm Camille... I'm...learning the (hemming &amp; hawing) Thought it would give me See I have nothing I...just remembered (loud bang) - Katherine! I didn't - Mr. McLintock. I told you - Not now. - Could I get you a glass - Oh, thank you, Mr. I came into town - Drago never could - It was that young man whose mother pretends - Katherine, your wine. - Thank you, Mr. Birnbaum. (smack) (smack) (smack) Now, Mr. McLintock, we have an awful - First thing I learned was to wait for daylight. - What does our conversation - Indian fighting for our kind of conversations. (scoffs) It'll wait, Katherine. - Evening Sheriff. We had quite Oh, I finally got that - It's your move. - No, it's your move - Now, look here. You're not going to and play chess when the remains unsettled! - I am gonna remain and the matter of our She stays. - Such stubbornness! - Katherine...your hair! Oh... It is a mess after - No...it's just that I haven't and it seems to me the your hair was a (laughing to himself) (Katherine mocking) It's a funny thing the tricks - Mr. Birnbaum, I completely lost your mind. - You HAVE done - I HAVE NOT! (laughing) If I had it'd be none Certainly not gonna put blondine trollops that - Take it. - Oh. - Fill it. - Oh! (soft music) - Morning! You fellows still - A McLintock never quits. But a Birnbaum has to. Besides the game - Oh no, Mr. Birnbaum. You - Ohhh you play chess? Please, take over. - Pretty good? - Fair. - Well...looks like I won't always to get a game. Remember, I'm a bad loser. It's your move. - Yes, sir. (soft music) (blowing) - Good morning. - Good morning. Oh...it's morning - Cup of coffee? - Oh yes, thanks Jake. - You're welcome, Katherine. - Got any cream? - Canned cows' milk. - That'll do. - Good old condensed milk. That reminds me... I was cleaning out and I found something I Here it is. It's a medal...remember? From the President of the to First Sergeant for bravery above and It's your papa. Reminds me of the first It was over 17 years ago. You walked into my store not much bigger than the And in the bundle was the most And was she hungry! You walked all the way just to trade me that medal GW was off somewhere as - Sheriff! Sheriff Lord! Have you seen the sheriff? - Kind of early for him. Did you try his house? - Why didn't I think of that? - Looks like Birnbaum's is open. Maybe somebody in here knows. So there you are, sheriff. I told you, you were - Trouble? - I wanna know by you let those Those savages are wards and I am the representative - I told Sheriff Lord down by the clay side. - Because the town's named - Well you check the books and you'll find I do Agard, if you knew you'd know that they're to put up with our so in spite of the nincompoops that have been put - Those Indians need to leave the reservation. - Those chiefs been giving It's pretty hard for that they have to hold schoolboy in a classroom. - The law is very clear. - I told you you'd get no But we'll get the girl back. - Girl? - The girl the Indians I armed the settlers to rounding up - What is this about a girl? - Millie Jones, one of - The Indians kidnapped her. - That's ridiculous. And you turned loose a lot - I certainly did. - You're insane. Let's go, sheriff. (tense music) - Mr. Douglas... - Mrs. McLintock. - Much as I hate to agree you haven't changed a bit. You're still an hysterical fool. (ominous music) - I come into town, - What about? - Thought maybe Katie shot you. - Not yet, Drago, but - Wait a minute, we Not that he'll be much help. - Drago, help him on the horse. (upbeat music) - Just a minute! (horse neighing) (carriage creaking) - I'll drive. - Yes, ma'am. (horse neighing and - Agard, what - Stretch him, Agard! - Agard, this is serious. - Stay with him, Agard. Stay with him! (thump) - Agard...will you stop showing - Mercy. Mercy. - That horse is - Let's go. Heyaa! (triumphant music) Just where do you - Don't use that range (dramatic music) - Carter! (steer mooing) We're headed for Mount up some riders. - Right, Boss. You heard the man! - I don't like I don't like it one bit! - What don't you like? - They're planning (dramatic music) (whack) (tense music) - Whoa Sheriff...real funny. Where's the whiskey? Haaaaha. - Hold it. (thump) No so fast, Mr. Boss unless you wanna wear a - How long is GW gonna let that cheechalker - That cheechalker has - How do you know she or meet some fellow - What are you saying? That I didn't raise That she'd wander off - There's a lot of things while you got a sawed-off But how do you know this Indian - She's gone ain't she? She's gone! - Pa. Pa, I'm over here. Pa! Been looking for me, Pa? - Where you been, girl? - Young Ben took me and the horse wandered away! (crowd laughing) - You come down off of there. - But, Pa! - She's telling the We weren't doing nothing! - Well, that's not The important thing is that or this will be worse than - You get on back to the wagon. I'll tend to you later. Now for this young - Now, no harm has been is one of the nicest so just put down - I'll teach him to (groaning) - Now, we'll all calm down. - Boss, he's just - I know, I know. I'm gonna use good judgment. I haven't lost my But, pilgrim, you caused a Might have got somebody killed. And somebody ought to belt I won't... The hell I won't! (dramatic music) (splash) McLintock riders. (western fight music) - Hahaaaaa! Ohhhhh McLin! - Hey, Buster, remember me? (pow) - Hello, sir. Nice party. (western fight music) - Do you think you ought to? - I ought to what? (western fight music) Why you big! (western fight music) - Yeeeooww! - Aaaahhhhh! (western fight music) (splash) (western fight music) - Good morning. - I want a word with you. Hey, just a minute! What are you gonna Hey, now stop this (train bell ringing) Heyyyyyyyyyy! (western fight music) - Stay out of this, Jake. - It's everybody's war! (western fight music) (splash) (western fight music) - Now you'll pay! - Ohhhh McLin! Where's the whiskey? (western fight music) Where's the whiskey? Good fight, good fight. (western fight music) - Good try, McLintock. - Oooohoooo McLin. - Thanks. (pow) (western fight music) - Aaaaaahaaaaa...very funny. - Yeah, very funny. (western fight music) - Gosh Mr. Douglas, I'm sorry! Hahahahahahaha! - Bon voyage, Drago. Yaaaaaaaaa! (western fight music) - Are you still down here? - Sage! Horse - Honest, Mr. Jones, (pow) (western fight music) - Get out of my way! (western fight music) Nice left. - Thanks. (pow) - But I went to college. - For this you - You're not getting (western fight music) - Yeeeooowwww! (splash) - You did this on purpose! Oooohhhh! Why, McLintock, you big...! - Good morning to - Bunny, you big... (smack) (GW yelling) (Katherine screaming) - Oh, no! (splash) - GW, because of you - Well, it's pretty hard Whoaaaaaaa! - People, people, (splashing around) - Ohhhhhhhh! - Ohhhhh McLin! Ohhhhh McLin...good party We go home. - YOU and your friends! - Well, we at least (scoffing) (splash) - Where is everybody? For heaven sakes. - Whoa, whoa. - Drago, will how to handle a team? - Yes, ma'am, I'll tell you that, now. - Crummy family. - You wanna lose your pigtail? - I lose face. Lousy relatives! - You're gonna lose - Kate? - Yes? - We could be a...big - Like what, may I ask? - Well, we could wash the We used to have quite good - There are a lot of Good night, Mr. McLintock. (sighs) (door opens) (door closes) - Any luck? - What are you talking about? - I mean...divorce. She still want it? - Yeah. - You know something, She fought like a out there this afternoon. Come home she slams That divorce business, when you pay a woman - That's about it. - Some women I - You know if we had we wouldn't be standing here when we should be washing. - GW! - Drago! - Mrs. Warren, these - Aw, thank - Morning, Mrs. Warren. - Morning, - Breakfast for the boss? - If that's the way you (shade rolling up) One poached egg, tea, toast lightly Why, Mrs. McLintock... - I do? Oooooo... Ohhhhh! Ohhhhh! And Becky's coming - And that's not all. There's a little something There are no men listening Oh sure, I let you get away with but now that we're alone-- - When I want the opinion I'll ask for it! - You know you could wind - What? I realize you had to We always have to just before generally for something But you and I both keep them from getting &quot;run&quot; things. McLintock give you - No! Nobody gave it to me. I won it! (train whistle blowing) (marching band playing) - Morning, Davey. - Morning, Mrs. (marching band playing) (train rumbling) (train whistle blaring) (station bell tolling) (station bell tolling) (train chugging) (band playing loudly) - Why, Miss Becky, welcome home. - My boy! It's good to see you again. - Daddy! - Daddy! - Hahahahahaha! - It's been two long years. - I guess I'm gonna have - Becky. - Mama! Oh Mama! - I wasn't sure - Oh, I've been Oh Becky, I bought you three of - Baby! - Uncle Drago! - Did you bring your old - Sure did! - What is it? A mustache cup! And what did you get me? The prettiest Palomino pony that ever packed a saddle. Broke the stand (horn blaring) - Uncle Jake! (giggling). What are you doing with - Oh, Mr. Douglas Had a little accident. - I brought you a whole But now that I've seen I think we better for a couple of bowls - Thank you! - Oh, the mayor was but he had to go to on a horse theft matter, but (audience cheering And don't worry I'm sure that he can find a (crowd laughing) Ladies and gentlemen, we are here to What am I doing? We are here to welcome back the prettiest girl that or in any part of the territory. (steam hissing) - Hey, Davey. - Got something for you. Yardmaster up at junction so I locked them in here. I've had my scalp and I aim to keep it. (dramatic music) (crowd commotion) - Yahtahey. (crowd chattering) - And now she's come back to us. Gone are the pigtails... but the freckles are still that was ever (spirited singing - Hey, that's Puma. Then it's true...the government - Good old Puma. I'll never forget when Your father had a hole in Of course they weren't He came past the house threw him on the doorstep. - Then you do remember them - Katherine. (spirited singing - Yahtahey - Yahtahey! - Puma, honored enemy! - Does Big McLintock forget - No, I'll never forget that. - Old wound... - I feel it when it An inch higher and I - Big McLintock, that We return with news... Our people have more trouble. You see I learned good Learned in white man's jail. But we would have you talk our - I understand that is gonna preside Yes, Puma, I'll - Mr. McLintock... could your Comanche to - Puma is chief of the Comanches and he speaks English very well. - Oh, well... - Your people will my instructions to the letter. - It is the law of the land... - Well, now, just a minute. (crowd chattering) Well, for heaven sakes. (crowd murmuring) (lively band music) - You wait here, honey, - You going to - Surely! - Will I see you there, Beth? - Of course, Davey, and you - Sis. (train whistle blowing) I don't want any sister of - Davey's not a stranger! He clerks in Birnbaum's. (train chugging away) - He's an Indian. (train rumbling (loud bump) (suitcase - Darn you, Drago. Now look what you've done. - Baby, this is Devlin Warren. He works for your papa. Dev, this is Miss - Those are my things. - Yes ma'am. I'd a known you - What do you mean? - Oh...I mean you look so well even prettier. - Oh, Mr. Warren! Mother's much - Many a fight started Come on, get in the buggy. - Hello, Ching. We've got cherry pie for dinner? - I'm not cooking. - No, he's not. - Junior! - Yes, Miss Becky? - You remember - Oh, of course... - Valedictorian, 95! - Congratulations. Oh Mr. And Mrs. Douglas, we will see you at - Ohhh, delighted! Well, it'll be pretty hard - Yes, sir. - Yes, Boss - GW...you remember - Oh yes, like father like son. - Oh, uh Mr. McLintock, I I'm being presumptuous in asking for the honor of - Well, there she - Well, thank you, sir. - Ching, now I'm Giddy up out of here! - Thank you sir, thank you! (thump) - Have you - See you at the party, Junior! - Yeah, yeah. - Yeah, what? - Like father, like son. - What did he mean, Matthew? - Come on, Ching, (yammering in Cantonese) (cow mooing) - Well, you're doing a - Thank you, Mrs. Warren. - Dev, when you're go over and help Drago - Yes, mom. - Dev, could you come I certainly was surprised - Why? - I don't know. Junior says Purdue for a backwater - Well, he did indeed? - Oh, could you do Why didn't you finish college? - Lack of funds. My father got sick and So he took out a homestead. - You know your mom's sure cute. It's too bad you didn't - Well, you'd have been a few things from your father. - Oh really? - His common sense for instance. - Common sense? - Yeah, you don't by some dude like - Junior's not a dude! He's nifty! This needs a woman's touch. And besides...he got - What sport? - Glee club. - Very strenuous. (scoffs) - Ohh! Umph! Don't you dare hug me! Umph! I have no intention Hmmph! (western party music - The ladies all look You know this is - Thank you, Ben. Of course, we had Just everybody. - Sorry GW, this one's mine. - Thank you, Mrs. Warren. I guess I'll have to be a - Well, the next one's - Thank you. (western party music) (children yelling excitedly) (guests chatting (western party music) (audience applauding) - Drago, go and do - Ohhh, Katie... - Katherine, and - Drago, do this. Yee haw, people, people, people. This Douglas feller-- - Drago! - Yes, ma'am. Matt Douglas Junior is some of the latest brand new brought by him (audience applauding All right, Mr. Fiddler. (lively dance music) - Give me a whiskey. (speaking cantonese) - This turn a 10 We're run out of whiskey! - Well, I can take (yammering in Cantonese) (splash) - Indian! And you still got any ideas about asking my sister to dance get up and we can do - Yes! - That's enough! You fought, it's over! - Quit butting in, Birnbaum. He's a hired man not your son. - Look, you fought - I don't think it was - What, you wanna take - If I did you wouldn't - Now, we've - Well when are you gonna - Just as soon as we're A lesson I learned back home - Well, we're - So we are. (pow) (pop, pop, pow) (thump) (pow, thump) (men scuffling) - Such vulgarity! Someone should do (pow) (pow) Absolutely right. (pop) (pop, pop, pow) (thump) (pop, pop, pow, bam) (thump) (crash) (plop) - You all right, young Ben? (panting) - I'm all right, Mr. McLintock. - Pretty fancy fighting - Two years at Purdue, Mr. - I never thought any But you sure did. - Better get him cleaned up. Get him some water, Jake. Get yourself cleaned up. Go ask that girl for a dance. - Who? Ohhh! - Did I miss much? - Where is he! That young whippersnapper! - Trouble. Where is he? Where is he, GW? Oh, so you're the young farmer Well, I'm Fauntleroy - Well, I'm no farmer but yes, I whipped him - What's intruding mean? - Butting in. - Oh, so he's Well, then I got another besides on account of him - Fauntleroy, you in these youngsters' - Family honor! I can't have it said a - You're twice his size. - Don't let that bother If Mr. Fauntleroy insists, I'll just have to teach (thud) (thud) (dull thuds) - Say! (loud crack (thump) Sorry, young feller. (laughing) Hate to have to do No hard feelings. - Not yet! - Not yet what? - I mean that isn't all. - Now, wait a minute. Fauntleroy, we're gonna - Of course we are. Of course we are, GW. - There'll be none of this. (thump) - I wouldn't do that, GW! - You wouldn't do... - Oomph! No! I wouldn't do that. - And Dev...I don't want you (whack) - He didn't do no such thing. - And none of this - Oooowwwwww! - He's all yours. (thud) (thud) (wham) (big crash) (writhing around in debris) - Where are my glasses? - You all right, young feller? - Oooouch! - I'm all right if will stop stepping - GW...you were But I want you to know that boy fought me a fair fight. - Well, I'm glad to - Where's my uncle? Fauntleroy, what I hope my uncle - No bother. - I think we'd better before they get curious. Drago. - Fauntleroy, let's line - Jake. You think tincture - Could be. Used to help you. - Gentlemen, to the (bodies shuffling (romantic music) - Good morning, Drago. - Morning, baby. - Have you seen Daddy? - Took off early this morning with a scatter gun under Went huntin'. (gunshot) (horse neighing) (hooves trotting) - Morning, Daddy. - Good afternoon. What got you out so early? - There's something I have - Yeah? What? - Mama. Why'd you and mama stop Why'd you separate? Aren't you gonna answer me? - Nope. - It's sort of my - I don't. - Is it another woman? It usually is. - At your age you always - Is it Mrs. Warren? - Becky...I don't wanna down your first but I'll have no more such talk. The first time I ever saw She has a job here at And I hope you'll to...not pry into other (gunshot) ...Your mother's and mine. - Pretty good shot, daddy. Oh, I can understand Mama's often so, - Petulant? You learned a lot of I wish to god they'd have You were only about when your mother in a sod hut under while I moved the herd 300 Saved about half of it. You were a little at the time of the We stood off 500 plains Petulant, Becky? I think you'd better go on home. See that Ching gets those birds. Becky. Come here. (horse neighing) (horse neighing) There's something I Guess now is as You're gonna have west of the Missouri around Mostly because you're But partly because in this country and they'll think Well, you're not. I'm gonna leave most of it to... Well, to the nation where no lumberman will cut down all the trees for Nobody will kill all the nor murder the What I'm gonna give on the upper Green River. Now that may not but it's more than we Some folks are gonna so I can sit up in the hereafter and look down on a Or that I was Didn't want you to But the real reason, Becky, is because I love you and I want you and some 'Cause all the gold in and all the harp music in between a man and a woman with I can't explain it - All right, daddy. - Becky. When you're as old as I am, you'll thank me for this. - Daddy, I'm full grown. I wasn't worrying about me. I was thinking (soft music) (women laughing) (women giggling) - Oh! (women laughing) - Well, sir, all three of them fell right out of the carriage. (women laughing) - Well, it is getting It's bedtime. - Oh mother! He brought this! He must have - Oh, well... - Sing us a song! - Well, if you Gosh, I haven't played in-- - You know &quot;Just Right For Me?&quot; - Sure. - Oh... - Oh... - Dev...what're you doing? - Oh! I uh... - Just thought I'd - But you've got and two burning in the tray. And that move... - [Junior] The fellows want (singing) You're a baby steer And softer than a mouse's ear I want the whole You're just right for me You're sweeter than... - Oh no, not that Do it the way they I know the words. - Sure, Becky, will - Of course. - All right. (playing &quot;You're I love a man who's - It's your move. - Oh! - Oh Dev, you're playing Let's call it an evening. I'd like to know where You're sweeter than The early spring Or bluebells when... They start to bloom Voice like her father. (singing) Just right for me. Sweeter than honey Finer than wine I'm sure they found you On that honeysuckle vine I would melt In your embrace You disappear without a trace To die like this Is no disgrace This is the time This is the place For you're Just right for me (strumming strings) (clapping) - Well... it's so good I kind But if we're gonna have that - Uh sir, about our conversation I believe I'd - Yeah? - Yes, sir, I've and when I called that's merely my generation's Nothing personal, sir. - Oh, really? - Well, good night, sir. Good night, Mrs. McLintock. - Good night and do come again. - Good night, Drago. - Night. Boss...what's - Me, I guess. He says that anyone who was a reactionary. - Was we reactionaries when you were for six cents a - Well... - No use arguing - Devlin Warren, if you wouldn't let with the prettiest without putting up - Does it show? Well, what can I do? I'm just one of her I'm just a hired - Every so often Dev, you spill the strangest ideas. (horse neighing) Everybody works for somebody. Me, I work for everybody that steps into a butcher's And you work for me. There's not much difference. - Daddy, the most terrible Junior's horse ran away, the one he rented at - You tied up a rented He's probably back - I think we can get Junior - What I'd rather do, daddy, is drive Junior home It's a lovely evening and I'm sure Uncle Drago - I would and I got the keep me from saying - I'll drive him You don't have to I'll see that he - I can take care of myself. - You got yourself - Dev, get the carriage - I'm going with them. Now you got me wrangling dudes. (door closing) (singing) You make a man You're just right for me - Miss Becky? Somebody better help You know I'm new around here. I might take the wrong turnoff. - Devlin Warren, a turnoff between here and town. You disappear without a trace To die like this Is no disgrace This is the time (cracking whip) (crack) Heyaa! (hooves galloping - Devlin Warren, what Kill us? - Rather have your friend drive? (cracking whip) (dramatic music) (Becky gasping) - Heyaa! - Daddy? Daddy! I have never been so - I said what I said and I'll - Shoot him, daddy, - W...why? - My honor is at stake. - Well now your honor? - Absolutely. - He impugned my honor. - Impugned, what does that mean? - Slander. He slandered my honor! - He did? - I said what I said, and I'll stand by - He admits it, see? Shoot him! - What is he admitting to? - Why, he called me a... I won't even repeat the word. - I didn't necessarily but I said what I said, and I'll stand by - Well, just for the tally - I said that any girl who before they're formally - He said it again! - Now, hold on. - No, don't hold on. If you're my father, if you - Well, I'm your father... (gun firing) - Oh you shot him! You really shot him! - [Dev] Hey! - If he dies he'll be with a blank cartridge. We use this to start - Hey! I'm on fire here! - Oh you poor dear! - Poor dear?! You'd a had me - But it didn't happen. - Yelling I insulted what you need is - Dev...daddy! - Leave me out of this. - I think I'll give - You wouldn't dare. - Oh, wouldn't I? You'll think next time before and this kicking and (Becky screaming Devlin Warren, I hate you! Mommy...mommy! - GW, was that a shot?! (dramatic music) (pouting loudly) (dramatic music) (pouting loudly) - Becky, what happened? - He spanked me! - You spanked my daughter? - Dev. - You mean, you stood there while that brute G.W., what's happened - Better part of valor, son. - Isn't it enough that you've without subjecting dear sweet - Katherine, you raising hell about one thing when it's something else Don't you think it's what put the burr under - I don't intend to stand here and hold a midnight conversation with an intoxicated man. - And I am not intoxicated! (door slams) Yet! (hooves trotting) - Hello, Governor. - Hello, Governor. (hooves trotting (crowd noises) - Chief Puma. Big McLintock...we know - You gentlemen, follow me. - Well, Jake? - GW. - Well, GW, it's - Not long enough - Your husband - Yes, Cuthbert, I know. (whack) - Where do you want the - Mr. McLintock is not - Sergeant, seat those Indians. - Yes, sir. Gentlemen, be seated. You know, their whole tribe - Proceed, Lieutenant. (gavel banging) - This hearing is Governor Cuthbert - Good luck, Daddy. - I'm afraid it's - Government Edict number 826 has ordered that the Comanche from their present It is the government's claim that these chiefs from prison by a did then rouse and among the tribe It seems, gentlemen, some of these Chief Puma is quite at -they have chosen Mr. McLintock - I speak for the Comanche, or rather I offer - Proceed, Mr. McLintock. - The Comanches say: &quot;We are an old people, When the white man we were as many as the Now we are few...but For if a man loses pride You tell us now that if we to this place called Fort Sill, you will feed us Let us tell you this. It is a Comanche law unless first he sees that in the lodges of the It is the Comanche way of life. This that the white is a fine thing for but no warrior can accept it, for if he does he and when he is no longer and better off dead. You say to the Comanche 'You are not men.' And we the Comanche say It will not be a remembered because we are few now But we will fight...and - Thank you, Big McLintock. - Am I to gather the Comanche defy the government - Yes, you may gather defy the United Or at least this commission. - Gentlemen. (whispering) (bang) It is the order of this court that these chiefs until such time as United States Cavalry be and the Comanche (bang) This court is adjourned. - Oh McLintock! You are important chief Sway them. Have them give us a few guns to make the fight worthwhile. Let us have one last remembered - I almost wish I could (speaking Comanche) (speaking Comanche) - Sergeant. Left guard, carry on. Gentlemen. (crowd murmuring) - It's sad these changing times. - It isn't the times (spirited singing - Hey, GW. (saloon music in distance) Bunny? - Oh...howdy, McLintock! Figured you'd be belly - I've been doing some Is that box car - Well, sure but... - But what? - Well I don't like it. - You don't, eh? - You figure if them lead the Cavalry on that great white - Get nosy and And when they find saddled governor's they'll give those - But that's live You know what'll get some guns in their hands? Somebody's gonna get hurt. - Is Puma's word - Well, I don't... McLintock, you got - Leave me out of this. - Hey, McLintock? - Good night, Bunny. Good night, Governor. (laughing) (drunk singing) with her light red hair Sweet as the roses on the summer air I'll find her somewhere while the moon is high And tell her that I love her And I'll love her 'till I die! Katie! Katie Gilhooly! The master's home, Katie! Katie! Katherine Gilhooly McLintock. Where is the woman of the house? - Umm, Mr. McLintock? - Oh there you... Mrs. Warren! Oh good evening! - I waited up for - Oh, how nice. - I wanna talk to - Delighted, delighted. 309 times straight. - I beg your pardon? - 309 times straight Gotta be a record! - I suppose so. Now, Mr. McLintock, - Two-pound Stetson 53 feet in the air... - I'm sure it is but the - Dagnammit, woman can't - Of course, sir. - Now... - Down the hatch Down the hatch! - Yes, sir! - Now...to the governor - The governor of - Now, don't you stick You're a fine But you'll certainly go if you stick up for governor of this territory. - I don't mean to change... (Mrs. Warren grimaces) - Yes, sir...down the hatch. - Cuthbert H. Humphrey, is a cull. Do you know what A cull is a specimen that you have to cut Now, if all the people in the Cuthbert is the one I at whom...I would Natural-born cull. Another touch, ma'am? - Oh no, sir, no! Well...I don't - Good. Can't walk on one leg... Oh...I didn't mean to Can't walk on one LIMB. - It's all right. - It sounds silly, only a You know my wife? She insists on being Do you know her? - Of course, Mr. McLintock - Well, she thinks that is panting for her at the first green But what Cuthbert is Don't make me feel like - Very well, Mr. Down the hatch! (glasses clinking) - Good! - Mr. McLintock... I have something very Very important! (giggling) I guess it'll have to Toodles! It's all right, Beddy bye-bye. (crunch) Whoops! - Mrs. Warren! (Mrs. Warren giggling) Let me assist you. - Very kind. (giggling) - Oooop...ooooop...oooop! - Whaaaaaaaa! (tumbling down stairs) (giggling) - Whoops! - What's going on here?! - Now, Katherine, are you Or what I tell you? (seething) - Uh... - Mrs. McLintock...hope (scoffing) - It's the first 100 that I misunderstood. Now, GW McLintock! He's gone to sleep. Just when I know exactly he goes to sleep. - I waited up to I wanted to tell You see, Sheriff Lord has - Oh congratulations! I don't want to seem prudish, but if you are going it seems to me that you're (both laughing) - Come on I'll help you upstairs and we'll have a long - Ladies! One moment! (clumsy footsteps Whoa, whoa - Watch out you'll Whooaaaa! (tumbling down stairs) - Wait a minute, ladies, and I'll get you up those is George Washington tooooooock! (thud) (smash) - You may be - Mrs. Warren. - But not tomorrow. I want my breakfast in bed. - I know, toast, - Somebody sure put - It was Katie... - Katie why? - Mrs. Warren was there... - Ohhhhh! and that whiskey and Katie's temper being well, there you are. - Drago, old friend.. My wife does not - Why should she be any Come on, I gotta Get you ready for that - Watch it! Aaaaaah! (tumbling down stairs) - Drago... I am sleeping (lively band music) (fuse hissing) (loud bangs) (donkey braying) (children laughing) - Hooligans! Ain't you got (firecrackers popping) (children chanting) Bunny lost his temper! Bunny lost his temper! Bunny lost his temper! - Scallywags! Villains! Hope you get the measles! (horse neighing) - Whoooaaaa! - Come on get Is everybody ready? - The man at number - Get him one. Let us know when you're ready. - Ladies and gentlemen! It is my honor to the governor of our territory (crowd applauding) - Thank you mayor. My friends and citizens this is the ninth it has been my privilege and the McLintock Fourth Now, the first event will But before I fire this I would like to say regarding my stewardship (fuse hissing) (loud bang) (western rodeo music) (crowd applauding - Waaaahooooo! (hooves galloping) - All right, Professor Birnbaum. - Gentlemen... (band strikes up) - Sheriff, there's your horse. - Come on, get Come here, Ching. Now, boys, you all It's twice around the inside and once around the outside. The first cowboy that without busting that And, I caution you boys 'cause some of them eggs All right, mount up. (blank gun firing) (band playing (crowd cheering and - Katherine, my dear you - Oh yes... It's the only thing I barbaric country - the (horse hooves pounding - Well Katherine, I've been I haven't heard from you. Is anything wrong? - Wrong? - I just hope that it for you to say anything to GW. - What are you talking about? - Katherine, you see I'm in being governor of the I just hope you haven't to say anything about... - About what? - About you and me. (laughing) - Why, you pompous windbag. Do you think that who's ever tried to play who's ever tried to lure - Well, no, but I... - Well, I'm a big girl and My husband knows it. I can assure you, governor that your reputation Now, get out of my way! (crowd cheering) (hooves pounding) (splat) (crowd laughing) (crowd cheering) - Folks, we got Curly Fletcher! - Fine old job, Curly. - Give me the egg. Disqualified! (crowd laughing) - Here you go, Curly. - GW, you'll never believe - What? - Phew! You smell of beer! - Well, naturally. - Ladies and gentlemen, the next event will be a contest between the two bronco-busting - Remember the year I wore your garters We had a bet and I won it. (crowd laughing) - George Washington McLintock, - Well, I guess so but liked to have jarred But it was worth it! (scoffing) (crowd laughing) Three beers! (crowd cheering) (tense, dramatic music) (door sliding open) (crash) (dramatic music) - One, two, three, go! (lively music - Come one, Dev, (cheering) (crowd grimacing) Dev, are you all right? - I guess so. Nothing busted but my pride. - Well that ought to even - For what? - For that sore nose you - Well, that ain't (crowd laughing) (train whistling) (Comanches whooping The closing event is The finish line is at the Come on. - Now what is Why, you know a Douglas doesn't I want you to get on that horse, get out in front and - I'll be out front, Dad. All the way. - Awwww, good boy! Now, remember stay out in front! That Agamemnon's a good horse! - Whoa, Agamemnon. (train rumbling) (train whistle blaring) - 11:40 and she's on time. - Whoa! (train whistle blaring) (horses bustling) (dramatic music) - Whoaaaaaa! (crowd yelling) - Come on, boy whoa! (train whistle blaring) (gunshots) (gunshots) (loud explosion) (dramatic music) (gunshots) (Comanche battle cries) (dramatic music) (dramatic music) (gunshots) (glass exploding) - Ooooh McLin...big party (gunshots) - Whose idea was this stunt? - Duck, doggone it (gunshots) (liquid trickling) (chaos and (gunfire &amp; commotion) (Cavalry bugle call) (triumphant music) (hooves pounding) (triumphant music) (hooves pounding) (hooves pounding) - I reckon that's you'd want for - Puma finally got his way. But I reckon he's riding - They won't get very far. - But one thing Where did they get the guns? - I was wondering - My kidney's been bothering me. - Bunny? - GW! Pssst! (GW laughing hard) What an idiotic joke! - Joke? You think - Well, shut up! Do you want everybody - You look good in feathers. (hay rustling) - Dev, I think - Yeah! - What are you going - What can I do? - NOTHING! Just like you've ALWAYS done. (pouting) (loud, brisk footsteps) - How long, GW? - How long what? - She's been riding herd - I'm a peaceable man, but &quot;You raise your voice, It's time to raise your hand.&quot; - Well, I've been planning I'll... I'll have another - Talk to her? Talk to her?! Talking won't do any good! - Becky, have you What's been happening You've got hay all over you. - Been some mighty during that raid, Mr. McLintock. - Who was it said only a before they were - Oh but we are engaged, sir. - You are? - That is with your permission. Well, you've got it. Oh, Mrs. Warren? - I think it's wonderful! - I guess this is that ever started (laughter) - I reckon Birnbaum was right. - All right. - Lord bless us this IS - Doggone it, folks! Let's don't let a break up a good (crowd cheering) The meat's on! - You contestants get ready (crowd cheering) (loud knocking) - Who is it? - It's me, let me in! - Not now. (door crashing open) - Are you insane? - I wanna to talk to you. (tense music) (table crashing over) (Katherine screaming) - I've taken all I'm gonna take from you. - You are insane! - You're going to tell picked up, and walked out on me. - Two years ago, you remember, YOU came home from Denver with lipstick all over your... (banister cracking) (Katherine screams) (crowd laughing) - Lipstick on my collar. (plop) - I've got the - Who cares? - Why, you big! (Katherine screams) (hooves pounding) (crowd laughing) - Katherine! (crowd laughing) GW, you are a ruffian! - Cuthbert, you are right. - Well, what kind (smack) - The best! - Hand's dangerous, fella! - Well what happened? Who won the race? - Who cares, Agard? History's being made! - Yes, Rufus? - I regret to inform you I've changed my mind Rufus! (cloth tearing) - Hey! - Mrs. McLintock! - Katherine... - Keep 'em out of here. (splat) (splat) (dramatic music) (crash) (dramatic music) (bucket clattering) (loud crash) - Looks like GW is - I'm afraid you're right! (loud crash) - Call me family! Call me family! (loud thump) - GW! (Katherine screaming) - GW! GW! (crowd laughing) GW! Aaaaaa! (screaming) (splash) - Mrs. McLintock, - Am I? (splash) (crowd laughing - Wrong woman, GW. - Oh, pardon me. (goofy dramatic music) (doors bursting open) - Mrs. McLintock! You (gasping) - Shhhhhh! (crowd bustling by) (breathing sigh (yelling) (dramatic chase music) (window breaking) - If I ever get through you'll rue the day - Bellyache and it won't do you any good! You've been digging those Now you're gonna get Thanks! (Katherine screaming) - My father would - I'll make him prouder! (Katherine screaming (carriage rattling) - Stop it! (growling loudly) - Keep it...you Now get your divorce. Home...and don't - Home, are you...? - Don't think you're gonna - Heyaa! - Heyaa! (triumphant music) (crowd cheering) (triumphant music) (crowd cheering) - No more living - No. Newport in season? - Nope. - No more dancing - No, GW. - Happy days! (Katherine voiceover) that's a record! (dramatic music)