Many people believe that their problems But I have to disagree. You see, I've spent several years on my journey and I've realized that Unfortunately, most people and before you agree with that Because in this conversation, I will share up 80% of the problems we face) and the Problem #1: Everyday feels the same I know you know exactly, what I'm Every day feels the same. Here's an example for you. Think about a someone and they've asked you; how's your day And whenever we have conversation life this And that response is something &quot;Well you know, it's that Or another example, and to be honest I'm guilty I said that: &quot;Well you know, things are going good. Things are going well. But it feels like all Comment below if you've said anything remotely Now, the solution to this problem, or what I like to call, the habit that We must find joy in the repetition. I'm going to say that again... We must find joy in the repetition. You know, it took me a long, long, long, long time to realize that the Regardless of how much I wanted often I gave the excuse that it was, it wasn't. What was...was the fact that I didn't have any goals set that I'm going to say that again. I didn't have any goals; I wasn't chasing This left me feeling like my life Every day felt the same, and it frustrated me, But that changed when I changed my perspective. When I realized that I had to The reality is that repetition We can't escape that. We can't change that. No matter how often we Repetition will always be part of our day. So the best thing we can do in that repetition. And you do that by So here's a question for you, and Is the repetition of your day moving you Do you have any goals? If not, why not? What are you chasing in your life? What do you want to accomplish? Is the repetition in your day helping Or is the repetition in your day just that, repetition for the sake of Problem #2: Always feeling stressed Again, I am very confident that you can where you've felt extremely stressed. Whether it's stress at home with your family, or stress at work. You know your work Whatever it is, you've felt stressed In fact, studies are showing that 55% of And the global average in terms of every day is somewhere around 35%, But it shows that stress is a common problem. Now, the solution to this the habit that I believe can And all we have to do is embrace less to destress. What does that look like? Well we should consider decluttering our home. We should also consider decluttering our emotions, which is a really, really big We should also consider having fewer people in mean is that we should keep the people in our We should also consume less noise We should take breaks regularly. And we should also learn how to Stress indicates that we and rather than admitting that we've reached We instead attempt to ignore it. And I'll be the first to We say things like, "well, this is now and things will slow down after I complete X." But it never does, does it? There's only one solution to less stress. Embrace less. This is why I swear by the benefits Above and beyond the obvious benefits But don't get me wrong, I'm a sucker for but minimalism is about more than your home. Minimalism is about having a clutter-free life. A simplified life, that includes less stress. Problem #3: Financial troubles I want you to think back over the last about a moment where you may have hit Here was my brick wall moment. I remember I was playing around when I say that I was playing was paying the minimum payment that I I was new graduate, I had my first real job, so that money and save a little bit, so I was I paid what I was required And one month when I logged into my account I noticed that the amount I owed was more that And what that told me was that the interest and I thought to myself, I said, well at this And that's when I hit that brick wall. So what was that brick wall moment for you? And really when you think about this; financial illiteracy even are all So the solution to this problem, the habit that I believe can solve this Educating yourself is a typical solution whenever Go out there and learn what you don't know; learn the information that our Now, this is fantastic advice; The other half that's less glorified, but in my opinion more important, Reading finance books, watching YouTube videos, listening to podcasts are But all this does is motivate What's left is doing and implementing Think about it like this: Education is how you learn Action is how you get things done. And to be honest with you, this simple formula was the habit that Because at some point, I had to implement on the things that I learned. I was motivated! I was motivated and inspired by all of the YouTube videos I was filled with hope and again, I was and listening to how they paid off their debt But I knew for me that listening and learning Motivation was only going Taking action and implementing and implementing on the things I learned, I hope you enjoyed this conversation my friend, I hope it inspired you. I hope it And if it did, let me know down in the comments. Keep growing on your journey, keep learning I'll see you in the next one. Peace!