- Today, if you type in the domain mortis.com into your search bar, you'll simply be met with an error code, a plain page telling you that you are not able to reach the site. But there was a time had a very different outcome. In the early 2000s the internet was filled with strange websites, complete with users who documented them. As the infamous Cicada 3301 situation gained popularity in 2012, users were desperate for players in search of their next game. But mortis.com was a little different. Cicada 3301 wanted to be solved. It was an intentional that lead players from rewarding them with the as they went along. Mortis.com remains a mystery that does not want to be solved. For reasons that will be finding concrete information The first fact that we know for sure is that the domain went up in 1997, only being discovered by chance much, much later, in the early 2010s. The oldest posts referencing mortis.com describe a user stumbling onto the domain before sharing their Going to mortis.com brought you to a simple landing page. Cutting over a black prompting you for a username and password. Most people at this point but this particular user in the source code. The poster looked around to find a hint of what was They realized there was than just the website's strange name and the monochromatic design. The user combed through quickly realizing that mortis.com was hosting an enormous amount of data. Some of the individual files and the total amount of data were in the range of terabytes. To give you an idea, 1000 gigabytes is equal one terabyte, and back in the late '90s and early 2000s, this was a massive amount of Much more than most or would even be able to afford. For example, in 1998, Walmart made waves for upgrading from 7.5 terabytes to 24 terabytes. Which should give you an idea of how much a terabyte was Even today, storing that is largely impractical The likelihood that a single individual was storing this much was next to impossible. Dial-up internet was still and it would be a painfully even on a faster T1-line, like what you would find at universities. Something seemed off here, Something seemed to be hiding The appeal of mortis.com was twofold. On one hand, the URL with mortis being the Whoever named the website mortis.com either had a dark sense of humor or wanted the name to held behind the tomb of a log-in screen. Maybe they even chose to prevent users from using the website with the unintended consequence pulled many toward the website instead of pushing them away. On the other hand, regarding its appeal, mortis.com presented a A cold log-in screen that was it. Nothing more, nothing less. It was like the website by an unauthorized user who was smart enough to crack the code. It was the age of the Still, stranger details about Word spread about the difficulty Average consumer domains weren't prepared to handle brute-force where an automated bot tries and username combinations Mortis.com resisted these attempts, with none of the dozens of leading any closer to a breakthrough. Of course, the website's to amateur internet sleuths. Word about mortis.com spread inevitably reaching the paranormal board, before appearing on Reddit and multiple amateur hacking forums. Developments in solving were painfully slow. It wasn't a large influx of it was small bits, only to disappear as or were confirmed as hoaxes. This was especially difficult, since as interest in the site grew, more and more fake posts would appear. Users claimed they had logged in to find everything from music files, to hardcore snuff videos, to classified government documents. Among these hoaxes, a small a name: Thomas Ling. Any clear information on even including his existence. A string of clues led some users to assume that the domain was registered on the 14th of November 1997. This also allowed them to validate around 24 other websites and hosting company. What they found was disturbing. First, there was Cthulhu.net. Users who documented the website claimed it gave off a similar Once again it was a single landing page, but it didn't prompt for log-in details. Over a completely black background, only two things appeared. The shape of a white chess piece, and a quote, &quot;Dead but dreaming.&quot; The website had no other links and zero evidence that there Unlike mortis.com, those acquainted with the work of H.P. Lovecraft will be quick to identify Cthulhu appears frequently a monster associated with the slow descent into insanity of the protagonist. The quote, &quot;Dead but dreaming&quot; of a section that appears in both Lovecraft's &quot;The Call of Cthulhu&quot; and &quot;The Shadow over Innsmouth.&quot; &quot;In his house at R'lyeh, Users began reaching hoping to find the mysterious Ling. A development came when one in Sydney, Australia. Further investigation seemed promising, even revealing an address, only for the users to discover that the property was an This strange turn in the investigation did little to deter anyone. If anything, it just of mortis.com. More leads on the Thomas Ling name would lead to empty warehouses and remote regions all across the globe. Some more detective work even brought up a phone number or two, but nobody ever answered. And some of the Thomas found down the rabbit hole ended up being people who way before the domain was registered. Users began trying to reach out to the email accounts Blair, Igor, Mortis, Child of Chaos. However, no confirmed evidence exists of any of them ever responding. Users began combing on the other associated websites. One of them was a website for a woman's quilt business. Another was dentalfillins.com, a simple website and other dental procedures. Dentalfillins.com pointed to a Thomas Ling working as a dentist in San Francisco. Other strings lead to a Thomas or to a security expert And although it seemed like the users were on the tip of finding they never did. The reality of the matter is even if the users did end through these calls and emails, he seems to not wanna with a bunch of strangers Out of respect for his privacy, many users dropped trying and his identity even his So then, here's what we do know about the strange website. In 1997, without a doubt, was registered under the name Thomas Ling. Whether this is the they used the same details to also register 24 other websites under the domain registration the server being located in Philadelphia. 2011, the furthest discussion I can find on the mortis.com mystery dedicated to discussing technology. There are posts in this thread that link to older mentions of mortis.com on other websites and forums, but just like the domain itself, most of these have been 2011 is likely also the year although it is difficult thanks to most of the online In 2013 after years of the mortis.com mystery is brought up again on 4chan's /x/ forums It's worth saying that this is important, as although 4chan isn't exactly what'd you'd call a credible source, it does help that the were found on /g/. The paranormal board can have a distinctly /r/nosleep quality, where serious discussion about the strange is purposefully indistinguishable Many sources I could find to come from the /x/ board and not the /g/ board, which is worth noting. As by the time discussion mortis.com had already been brought down. What we do know is that it took many of the websites at the same time. Users logged in to 4chan and Reddit to report that mortis.com only to quickly realize were also inaccessible. One user claimed that Thomas some time before this. He allegedly demanded that the users stop trying to hack his website, and when pushed for an claimed that the website was only used to host his wedding photos online. Which seems to be Unlikely, considering the size of the files, but it would be possible. Today, most of the You can still log into but Cthulhu and mortis.com Someone has personally requested that both those domains from internet archives. On the Wayback Machine, you The only proof that they existed at all being that someone had for all records to be wiped. A wiki that existed for a few years to try and document every piece is also down, compounding the difficulties after it was brought down. I did some extra research to try and find a I had a look through the remaining records on the mortis.com domain. Even though the website is down, I noticed that it was Before this could happen though, it was reregistered under the same name Thomas Ling once again, under the same domain host. This reregister is valid until 2025. There is no way to be sure if Thomas Ling who reregistered the domain in 2020 is the same as the original, as many of these hosting websites go by a policy of trust when One thing that needs to a clone of the monochrome that went up in 2021. Some of the resources I make brief mention of it, but looking around the what I could find was that in 2020 from the company NameCheap and has been updating it It looks exactly like but of course, there are that it's related at all. If any of you are feeling brave, I'd be curious if you can and share what you find in the comments. Barely Sociable has an where he concludes at that mortis.com was for downloading and Because there was evidence that it hosted an embedded media player, and some of the file names Mortis.com could have just been something far more innocent than the name implied. This could also explain all went down at the same time. Either the FBI got wind of the piracy and Ling had no choice to remove them, or Ling got spooked by the from total strangers on the internet. Fearing legal consequences or his personal details being leaked, he pulled the plug on the website's getting However, a part of me still If Thomas Ling really away from the internet frenzy I can't understand why he the domain as he did in 2020. This is even if it was Thomas Ling who reached out to the hackers. When asked for proof that he was just storing he stopped responding. As one person on Reddit mentions, &quot;who hosts their wedding photos under the Latin name for death?&quot; Still, some of you wondering may have realized something unconfirmed in the timeline here. The thing that pushed was the idea of the huge amounts of data being hosted on mortis.com The original post was made around 2011, but the way many people recount the story makes it sound like that mortis.com had been hosting files since its registration. This is highly unlikely, and even considering that the site was never indexed on Google and is wiped from archival records, we can only assume that the domain was registered and unused, only having the files begin to be uploaded much later into the early 2000s. If any of you can find that mortis.com was since the '90s and early Still, despite these more its peculiar that someone Perhaps it is because of the value now associated with one word domains. But in any case the owner seems keen on keeping it in their possession as though it might go up again, one day. That the firestorm will and maybe, just maybe, we might There seems to be nothing as much as a mystery left unsolved. When researching mortis.com, I found myself dancing between two very different perspectives. I treated the posts where people claimed that they had broken the log-in and found vast amounts of everything from classified government with skepticism. As Barely Sociable claims in his video, what's most likely going on here is that this has all been Users may have fixated on the idea that mortis.com was hosting when this is not confirmed. It is far more likely that that the simpler explanation is the truth, and that the domain was before the increasing and improved uploading speeds allowed a Thomas Ling to through the mortis.com domain. Despite this, something and out of place when Why would someone go through such lengths as to wipe the records of Something still seems very off when it comes to this mystery. If it were possible to when it was still online and have the correct login details, I'm not certain what we would find when pulling back the curtains. What do you guys think hides Let me know down in the comments or over on my Discord. If you haven't already, check covering the topic as and gives great insight into the mystery. Thanks you so much for making If you enjoyed it, please or checking out my other videos as it really helps me out. Thanks again, and have a good night.