(relaxing music) Wow, the lighting in the morning is so pretty. So today's event is actually hosted by the one and only Selena Gomez. Alright. Not sure if I should have my hair down, put it up, or half up. Figuring it out right now. I think I'm deciding half up. October 30th, 2024. Side note, I got sick and lost my voice for the past five days and it's finally recovering now. So please excuse the rasp. October was such an eventful month. I'm backtracking to events but they felt like two months ago. The more I document bits of my life like this, the more I realize just how much happens and unfolds in a month. My life is a mix of those and those loud, exciting and social experiences sprinkled in between. I have to pause every once in a while and recognize that I'm truly that I'm honoring all the Not perfectly balanced, but somewhat, and that's good enough for me. I'm proud and grateful to say that I have been honoring my home life, my career, my joy, and my relationships this past month. It was a month full of life, in all caps. And lastly, we're going to - [Aileen] I woke up early for a yoga class led by Sarah from the Lavendaire team. Sarah taught a class on yoga for stress relief for our Dream life club, our exclusive community for personal growth, connection, and accountability. I've been hosting monthly so it was really nice to simply attend an event and do yoga with the other members. I'm hoping to grow this community where we practice consistent self-reflection and come together at least once a month to nurture ourselves or learn something new, a space where we can share our lessons and our wins with each other Let's reverse. (mellow music) Raise your right hand. (lighthearted music) Okay, this might be shocking to some of you, but I am not a morning person, so I have literally not seen my house at this time, in this lighting. And so this morning I came down, and I was like, wow, the lighting in the morning is so pretty. Even if I am awake, I'm just taking Togi out and not paying attention. But today, I did yoga, I'm awake. Ah, it's so pretty. It's so peaceful right now. It's like so zen. I can't believe it was my first time seeing my home in this morning light. It was so beautiful, I just wanted to capture it. Wilson, come! I've never seen this lighting before. (Aileen laughing) I'm quite proud of how we It's literally my biggest art project, and I can speak on all the little details and design choices. My cousins and I were an audio guide for each room or piece, kind of like a self-guided museum tour for people when they come over. It's true though. I could speak on everything, because everything has a story or a meaning, a reason why I made that choice. Wait, this looks like a Pinterest photo. (upbeat music) (lighthearted music) Update on my fitness journey. I'm still going strong. Doing that 30 day challenge last month motivated me to exercise every day, and now I've gotten into the habit of it. Even if there are days where I don't feel like it or have that much energy, I just tell myself to do one 10 minute video, and I secretly know that once I start, I'll probably end up doing more. So Wilson and I finally decided to clean up and set up half of this gym room so that I can start using it. I was so excited about it. It felt like a reward for After we set this room up, I've been using it almost every day. It's where I spend most of my evenings now. So you wanna make it like take it off? Being on this fitness as it can be seen as a metaphor for life. Just as we have the power we have the power to reshape our lives. So often we can be held even ones that we don't realize we have, and you can't truly commit to change until you fully believe it's possible. Sometimes there are real constraints to our bodies, like genetics or structure, but there's still so much we can do to change or improve within those constraints. It takes a strong, determined mindset, consistent dedication, and patience to make real lasting change. Togi, what are you doing? Who's that? (Aileen laughing) Well, it's like real life sized. Oh my gosh. Here, let me go to a part with Togi and then see what happens. (Aileen laughing) Hey, hey! (relaxing music) We are going to a Porter Robinson concert today. I don't know, I just felt like being a little more playful with my hair, 'cause one of his songs is &quot;Cheerleader.&quot; That was the inspo, cheerleader. Also, I really like Jenny's new song &quot;Mantra,&quot; and this is a Jenny inspired hair as well. Two inspirations. It's Libra season, so I just (mellow music) I turned 34 this month, and although I still feel young, I see the signs of time around me in my family and in my life. I'm at a more stable place in my life now compared to the struggling, striving, and stressed twenties. The younger me 10 years She struggled with her self-confidence and wanted so badly to succeed She had such a passion for life. As cringey, or awkward, or desperate that girl was, I am fully grateful to her and all that she did, because she became me. She did this. Somehow not quite knowing how to get there, yet trying and trying over the years, she got there, she did that. She created a business, she built a home, she healed herself, she found self love, she tasted inner peace, she overcame so much, she shouldered a lot of burdens and still does, but she came out lighter, more joyful, more free. Her struggles were not in vain. They were not wrong, either, for that was all she knew then. - Happy birthday, Aileen! - Happy birthday! Birthday girl! The greatest gift of life and time is perspective. The ability to see from a higher vantage point, to see beyond what you previously saw, what you previously thought you knew. To understand deeper. With greater perspective and understanding. I accept everything. All the struggles, flaws, mistakes. I embrace it all with love and gratitude, because I understand that for me to see life the way I do now. With each year and each experience, my perspective expands and I judge a little less. I know there's always more Oh, really? - [Cousin] I's like, you know, for me, it's like when I'm shopping, I think of somebody, I go, oh, this reminds me of so and so. - So funny. Wait, is this the best arrangement, or should I move somewhere? - [Friend] Blue on the outside? - Right? - [Cousin] Yeah, blue on the outside. - I love the costume. (cousin cheering) (Aileen laughing) - At least I like these better than the haters. - I really like this. (cousin speaking indistinctly) - [Friend] Oh yeah, she was saying. Did he lick your face? - The journey is messy, but I guess what matters most is that you love the person you are becoming, that you truly enjoy the path you're on and the life you're creating. Nobody's perfect, and we will continue to be awkward and cringe, and make lots of mistakes, but all that is a step closer to the better person we are becoming. If you love the person you're becoming, then you're on the right track. For me, that person is creative and kind, joyful and confident, fully enjoying life and all of its beauty, shining authentically as herself, honing, using, and sharing her gifts, and not worrying or stressing too much. Trusting, loving. (upbeat music) Hello friends. So I am currently driving to LA. I'm going to a special event tonight, and I normally don't go to because number one, it's a little far from me. I have to drive at least an hour. And number two, I'm an introvert, so it's always like a little uncomfortable. It's like, oh, do I wanna make the effort? Do I wanna get dressed up? And I don't know if it's worth it. But today I felt like this and even if they did not give me a plus one, which made it feel even more like, ooh, uncomfortable, I'm like, okay, I still wanna go, let me try my best to make it. So today's event is actually hosted by the one and only Selena Gomez, and it is her Rare Impact Fund So it's basically like a celebrity charity gala for mental health, and I just felt like the event was perfect for what I'm into. And I am hoping that I get I don't know if I will, but I'm sure there will be cool people there, a great place, opportunity I am just, you know, such an introvert and this Like, I always feel uncomfortable especially if I have to go by myself. But I'm just doing my best and just be myself, and just try to meet as many people as I can. I am actually such a nerd. I also prepared a gift for Selena. I brought some workbook, joy journal, just some stuff from our shop, right? Because I feel like she would like it. You know, it's like mental health, self-growth related. But I don't even know if I'll or, I don't know, maybe if I don't meet her, I'll But yeah, I feel kind of nerdy, 'cause I have like that extra and I'm just like, hmm, is it worth it, is it not? I don't know. But I'm just gonna, I don't know, envision that tonight will go well and whatever's meant to happen will happen. We'll see how it goes. (upbeat music) I made it! We stand where we all take a bow I lose control - The Rare Impact fund was launched in 2020 with the goal of expanding access to mental health resources, education, and support for young people here. - And this is that dream come true. To watch this grow over the past four years has been surreal, humbling. I've learned so much along the They are committed to youth mental health, from suicide prevention, training in schools to their drop in center here - And honestly, well, as he says in his own words, he likes to embrace chaos cuisine. To find this woman's time elsewhere. 22 and a half, we're asking 25! (pop music) - I'm here with Kelly! - Hi! Okay, if you can tell, I am such a fan. - Oh my God. - I am such. (indistinct) - You're so sweet. I feel like they probably couldn't hear what you're saying 'cause the music's so loud. I'm here with Teddy Swims! - Hi y'all! Happy to be here with you. (creators cheering) - Okay, one of the giftings It's XL, 'cause that's all they had, but this is perfect because I parked a couple blocks down and I didn't want to walk in LA in a dress at midnight. Actually it's not midnight, it's like 11:00 PM, but it's perfect. Now I can walk in peace, or in safety, hopefully, I'm not a city girl. (Aileen laughing) Kind of feeling it, I like this vibe. Okay. She has made it safely to her car. I feel like if I'm ever in LA by myself, just single girl on the you can't be too safe, you know? She has made it home, safe and sound. Yay. The success of this night was I gave my gift to Selena Gomez. I almost didn't get to see her, almost didn't get to give it to her. Okay, so the event went pretty well. There was so much stuff to check out and I got to meet a few people. So I was invited as one of and it was really nice because I followed a couple of 'em already, and I love when you kind of or maybe they might recognize you, so it kind of breaks the ice a little bit for starting a conversation. So that was cool. So the story of almost So Selena was there at the event. She was on stage speaking. There was this, like, there were performances and this live auction. And then after the live auction event, I think she was only in the area for like a couple minutes before So during that couple minutes, like, some people got to say hi to her, but I was busy because I had to, you know, I was trying to get this sweater. So I was like, oh, let me be first in line to get this sweater, because I am, you know, I don't wanna wait in line. So anyway, that was when I to immediately meet Selena 'cause I was thinking about the free stuff. Anyway, so after I finished doing that thing, which literally I just went for like a second to turn in my name slip or something. And then I came back, I was like, wait, I want to meet Selena, but where is she? And then someone told me, he was like, I think I saw her go in the back. And I was like, no way. No. And then I saw Benny, Benny Blanco, her boyfriend, still out there, So I walked over and I tried to check out if she was in the area. I couldn't find her. I wasn't sure what to do. I nervously just stood around Benny Blanco. It was like Benny Blanco and I was just like waiting for a chance to ask him where Selena. But anyway, I just asked Benny. I was like, oh, hi Benny, sorry to bother you, but like, is Selena here? Did she go home? And he told me that she's still here and that she won't be leaving anytime soon. So I was like, okay. So I thought she was gonna be at the event and I can find her, but after walking around the event, she was nowhere to be found. And I basically realized she and probably had no Like why would she, right? So I was just walking around and there was a point where I was like, wow, am I just gonna go home with this gift and not give it to her? I came all this way. Yeah, I guess that's it then, right? Like, I almost met her. But then a part of me was like, I did not come all this way to just get this far, right? I should just try my best. So then I just walked what should I do? I walked in this area where I was like, okay, great, I see a restroom. And then I went to the restroom there, and when I exited the restroom, I realized that it was the same hallway as the hallway that shared to going backstage. And I was like, it almost Like, I could see the talent where Selena might be. And so I just started walking that direction, and then I walked back, Luckily there were two girls that were actually headed for that room where I didn't know that she was there for sure, but I was just trying to shoot my shot. I was like, okay, if this is gonna lead to her, if there's a chance this leads to her, I'm just gonna follow my way in. And so I followed my way in. The two girls were obviously, and then security guard's like, what about you? Where are you going? And I was like, I'm just gonna drop this off. And then he is like, okay, and so he let me through because I said I had something to drop off. And so I went, there was the room, and there was Selena. And when I went in, like I, you know, someone was talking to her. I waited, I was so nervous that I felt a little bad for sneaking in. I don't wanna intrude on anything. But I just really quickly was like, I just wanted to drop this off, you know, just like a quick little, not trying to be too, you know, not trying to spend too much time there. What's funny was Benny remembered me. He was like, oh, so you did find her? I was like, yeah, you told me she would be out there, but she was here backstage the whole time. But it's fine. So I did get to meet her. I had to fight my way through and I think everything went how it's supposed to go, I guess. On the way home, like, I felt happy that I completed my mission, but then another thought she could totally have left the gift in that room and not have taken it home. And I have to, I'm okay with that. I have to accept that. I have to accept that as a possibility. But you know what? I did my part, I did my best. I showed up, went to the event, met some people, met Selena, also met a couple other celebrities. Teddy Swims, love him. Yeah, so I would say it Yay! Alright, now I'm gonna shower, wash my face. But I guess I do feel good. It was very interesting, something different than a typical night that I would spend at home. So I guess you sometimes have Alright, goodnight. How do you feel about the I'd love to hear in the comments below. Thanks so much for watching, and please subscribe if you haven't already. If you'd like to watch more, you can check out the Diary of Becoming series playlist linked in the card, as well as in the description below. Also, quick reminder to check out the new 2025 Artist of Life workbook that It's our bestselling guided journal to help you create your most intentional You can find it at shop.lavendaire.com. Alright, love you so much, and I'll see you in the next one. Bye. (upbeat music)