Welcome to Sad Boyz, and other things also. I'm Jarvis. - (quietly) Whooooooa. - I'm flying. Ahh, what the heck? - [JARVIS] Oh, no, bullet time. - The main - like Smith? - Morl - no. Ooh, so close. - [JARVIS] &quot;Morlius, look out&quot;? - [JORDAN] Hugo Weaving. - That's his character. - Hugo Weaving Smith? partway through that movie, they're like, &quot;We're analyzing the code. It turns out but... oh. His first name is Clarence.&quot; - Oh. Not really concerned about it. I guess it doesn't change anything. &quot;You don't fear me, Mr. Anderson.&quot; - &quot;'Cause we found out about Clarence.&quot; - Mr. Anderson.&quot; He does the thing where it's like, uh, - the shutter speed is low and you see him in a bunch of things. Did I tell you about the, uh, movie double feature I insisted one summer when I was like eight? [JARVIS] This vaguely I would have to watch - The Matrix Revolutions - Oh, no, Reloaded. - Had not seen the others. Then What Women Want, [JARVIS] I've never seen that movie. Rewatched it recently. - [JARVIS] Does it hold up? You know when you have kind of a anecdote that kinda drifts where it's true, but you don't maybe you're embellishing it - with the funnier moments? And I would refer to it in a, like... &quot;Yeah, Mel Gibson gains the because he's an advertising executive that trips into the bathtub while holding hair colors to test them out because he's what they're like, and it - Turns out that is literally what happens. And he... can also read dogs' minds? - [JARVIS] Oh, that's fun. It happens one time and This is a movie about a misogynist - [JARVIS] Right. in the universe of the movie, is right. - [JARVIS] Ohhh. &quot;Women only think about one thing, thinking Then he's walking through a crowd - Shopping! Handbags!&quot; I can't believe it was published. Also, I won't spoil it for people, 'cause I do recommend watching it, but it's actually probably of what was so broken about early- to mid-2000s... I guess it's a rom-com, but early- to mid-2000s and how they don't understand tone. - They feel AI-written, weirdly. - And the AI is trained on those movies. [JORDAN] It is, um... Hey, man, it's a good hate-watch Twinning it with The Matrix Reloaded does give you a bit of tonal whiplash. Literally, I was gonna say It is, um... it's not unlike - Also, (whip-crack) howdy. I'm Jordan. [JARVIS] Um... Did I &quot;howdy&quot; in the live show? Uh... I don't remember either. - Austin's saying you did. Austin is here in person. Austin, stick your head - Just awkward, yeah. Oh, no. Aw, the camera - it's broke. - Um, we - We had our... live show. We had the Sad Boyz live show. At Dynasty Typewriter, - It happened. to now be here being solemn and say it did not go particularly well... Yeah, everything went wrong. - It was perfect. It was so fun. Incredible audience. Really good time. Um, shoutouts to Mateo for being a very good sport. And shoutout to Isaiah. You'll know why if you were there. So - oh my god. That, I mean - see, You know, the prepared bits we did, The guests we got on - Those little bonus pieces... But if you were not there and we will be releasing it on the Patreon, so stay tuned for details regarding that. Jacob is in the lab right now We have it filmed in beautiful 4K. He always wears a white lab coat for the He insists on using, - I don't understand how that applies - - Yeah, that's true. Your focus has been which doesn't feel very productive for You don't know shit about coding; - film production. But yeah, live show went well. and stay tuned for those who wanna see it. I mean, we can reveal now we had Eddy Burback. We had NakeyJakey. We had Ify Nwadiwe. - We had Chad Chad. - Yeah. Jealous much? It was a star-studded crew. Um, yeah, and a grand old time. - So thanks again for that. That was like - I mean, you know... How was your week? Including the live? Oh, it's not been good, to be honest. I've been, like, out of it. (sighs) I've been tired. I've been sad. Um... been trying to Um... It's small work things, but... I don't know. It's just not been - I've not been on the right foot lately. Does it feel kind of intangible? - Like, there's some - point to things and say if I were in better spirits, be an issue, if that makes sense. And if all of them were resolved, Exactly. So, that's uh, you know, &quot;another day, Um, and just gonna keep... keep at it, keep doing things. You know what they say. Yeah. Thank you for saying that. Yeah. - What a great idea I just had. But before we get into that, me, Jarvis, has a word from today's sponsor, Liquid IV. Did you know that proper hydration That's why Liquid IV's Hydration Multiplier is one of the best products With just one stick, you can hydrate plus you get essential vitamins and three times as much Liquid IV comes and there's no artificial sweeteners. Right now, I am rocking The packaging, by the way, You can take it with you if you or during a busy day, or You can grab your or you can head over to LiquidIV.com to get 20% off your order. That's 20% off anything when you shop better hydration and use code SADBOYZ, Thanks again to Liquid IV Now back to the Boyz. - Howdy as well. And that's mine. That's my thing. - Sorry you've not been feeling so hot. It comes with the territory of being alive. And, uh... And it will pass, because And all feelings, the good ones so I'm just trying to be present, Um, it is a bad time for Uh, but it's the holidays, so... I also just don't do The holidays are always very solemn, very solitary, very sad for me, tend to do anything with family, just 'cause I don't have I don't really have that And then, like, it's kinda like, uh - I've explained it before, but, um, there's my blood relatives and then and a lot of people from the family so there's not somewhere to go back in that corner. And then, like, my blood relatives - I didn't grow up with in that way, so it ends up being a complicated thing. So I tend to just, like... Uh, I tend to just ride alone when it comes to the holidays. Or I'll do things with friends, and Keep myself busy, keep myself (as Stewie Griffin) Keep - Stewie-ing too much, Brian. - &quot;I'm a baby.&quot; The full moon's out. - Yeah. So... similar situation with the holidays. &quot;Going back and seeing the family, - and Uncle George is racist&quot;? And I don't totally understand it, but I also do... I wonder if, at some point, we should find something that is ours. 'Cause I've also been away a while, - Yeah, no - - Yeah. - Yeah. - after I moved back, over Christmas. - Just by coincidence. I... have had a little bit of that experience. We talked about it, like, the We had a little bit of that, 'cause sometimes I'll I haven't done it in a while, but I'm sure if I hit them up they would have me, you know? It's, uh, one of those I'm bad at reaching out I don't know what I have the energy for or the desire for. Like a friend asked me, um, &quot;Yo, when are we gonna hang out?&quot; - and I was like, &quot;I don't know,&quot; 'cause... - &quot;But I don't know me.&quot; like I wanna commit to something. &quot;The one that cancels on you - [JARVIS] Yeah. - He's not doing well. But, like... - &quot;I'm sorry for him.&quot; Though, uh, we did do a episode, I wanna say 2017, called &quot;Awkward where we did talk a little bit about my experiences with the But, um... It's funny the podcast is at a place now [JARVIS] Oh, I mean, I feel like if I'm being honest. There's lots of stuff. Though, just for the I had to look through some of our There's a few things that... were really prophetic from, like, the Episode 0 that we never put out. Some of that we played but there's other stuff that where we have a conversation about um, uh... The early episodes of Sad Boyz and I... Eventually it started to feel like therapy, and I was already going So it just felt very emotionally draining to do the show that way. It felt like a deliverable, too. When we say &quot;topic-focused,&quot; for people &quot;Today's episode is about family.&quot; - &quot;Today's episode is about race,&quot; or... - Which is fine as a jumping-off. But it was almost like improv, where there was this third performer - that was the show itself. And we would be like, And it went, &quot;No, we're - We're like, &quot;Oh, OK.&quot; But in the Episode 0, which was basically just a workshop what the show was, I say, like, &quot;Well, I don't just want it to be this, 'cause that might be exhausting for me.&quot; It's like I predicted the future, but There was a few things like that. For example, um, I had it playing on the speaker and I said to Austin in real life, out loud, um, &quot;I guess our first episode, which we call that Episode 0 um, at some point, and so technically this is like And then in the recording for it, I go, &quot;This is Episode 0, or Episode -1.&quot; And I'm like, &quot;What? I... - There's no free will.&quot; - This should be Episode 0. finite-state automata. Oh, yeah, there is no, uh... There is no free will, only fatalism. I am very much a John Locke, - philosophically speaking. Don't tell me when I - what I... - where I can't be on an island. Don't - I just watched the episode or he travels back briefly and Richard literally goes, - &quot;Don't let them tell you what to not do.&quot; - [JORDAN] It's like, &quot;What the...?!&quot; &quot;Thanks, man, I was just thinking about letting people tell me what I can't do.&quot; - Shoutouts to Lost, truly. It is sad to me that we, and I do think it would be different now, and avant garde and For all the drama that was like, as a result - as a product... Lost, in my opinion, has only been getting better over time. And I really... I think if Lost existed in a post- or during-Mr. Robot era, it would receive a lot of the same love, as a weird, high-concept show I mean, I won't spoil too much of it. Basically, the cast just There's a lot of the same people in it, who's right for this story I... We were watching some of at the same time that that guy on the plane skipped every Joey scene, - so I was half there for one episode. - Oh, yeah. Shoutouts. - [JORDAN] Shoutouts to Joey. and he's skipping the [JORDAN] Got off the plane; I do appreciate - we've talked That's a very healthy approach to things not being great, is accepting that impermanence. At the same time, though, to people who are in long-sustaining difficult points, the thing you're experiencing - [JARVIS] Right. Regardless of where it ends up going, it's It's contrary to what and what humans, uh... Yeah, what humans are bad at but insist on doing, which is assuming that A lot of our, like, anxieties are based on the fact that, like, literally everything about the world and we are not good But as a survival mechanism, it's natural to try to predict the future. But then that gets into And humans really don't like - Yeah. I feel like, especially right after a lot of people were saying, Or actually mourning, I guess, You've experienced this too, &quot;Wow, sorry to hear that,&quot; and then either make a reference or try and comfort you with I'm OK hearing people's experience. But with the platitudes, like, &quot;Oh, well, things get better, not everything will stay the same,&quot; it's well-intentioned. But I also think a lot of the time it's a, &quot;Oh, my friend is suffering Here's my last resort:&quot; - Yeah. - Yeah. because if people think - Great feedback. I'm actually like, uh - My unpopular opinion is I'm not I think it depends on where 'Cause I think a platitude can be Uh... - &quot;I don't wanna have this conversation.&quot; A lot of times, those platitudes... like, um... are based in something, like... You know, like &quot;time heals all wounds&quot; it's like, &quot;Whatever.&quot; But, you know, when you look back on your life and about the things that were particularly painful or stressful and you look at them &quot;Oh, I guess that You know? There's some but other things that may ruin a day for me today. I may look back in a week, in a year and say, &quot;What was I worried about?&quot; Based on the way you're it'd probably be closer to, - It was that kind of temporary.&quot; The only time I get is when I've asked for something else. - Oh, yeah. and I'm still getting platitudes, I... I don't wanna have to, too many times, - say, &quot;It's OK. This is...&quot; &quot;Just hearing me out and accepting or challenging my reality - is all I'm after.&quot; But to do that, that's being powerless, is not being able - in a really complicated situation. - I'm as guilty as anyone. We all do it. Like, if you're talking to If you're a person that wants and your partner's venting and they don't want you they just wanna vent, then... even if it's well-intentioned, trying to solve the problem is not gonna lead to good things. listen to what they want. I think that's the height the most platitudes I've is in a... very well-intentioned relationship setting, where the level of makes the feeling of powerlessness hurt the most. And also when I've given it the most. The other end of the spectrum and I think it is not well-intentioned, is often kind of boomer... family or family friends who are just like, Northern family were very &quot;don't talk about your Just wanting to be like, - Yeah. You're like, &quot;Oh, OK then. That's... good for you - that I no longer feel too bad.&quot; Um, well, but how about you? How was your week, including the show? Um... I had a good stretch of maybe partly in anticipation, anticipating having to travel - or having, like, a thing, you know? It was like, gotta be back to check in with the family, do so-and-so. Now gotta go back for stuff with Then all the logistics for it, then Prior to that, planning the funeral. A week and a half after Then I was coming back from Michigan, where I'm not getting ready to go somewhere for some, uh... usually And I... The live show was so I think my... Uh, also meds, very inconsistent with travel And then I just... I don't know. Yeah, My apartment is very clean. I'll say that. Um, and then the live show happened, That's typically when it happens, is my - 'Cause I'm the same with, like... when I was younger, sometimes drugs, where once the high starts I really struggle to let it go. And the high of the live show I usually wanna carry then lose myself over and then deep depression afterwards. having the hypermanic episode which should have made me but maybe Having it prior to that and then we had a really nice I think that helped. I think we all - I should say to people, Not all due to conditions. But we had a dinner. Dinner and drinks with and the friends that and I think that was like a... brought me down to Like Performer Jordan can take a breath. - [JARVIS] Mmhmm. but we do have to retain a It is still a performance. - [JARVIS] Yeah. - Jakey was in town, which was really nice to hang out with Jakey, Uh... Fortunate that the GTA VI because we would have We would lose ourself to that. Having chats with Two years could pass, and we have long Uh, but yeah, I'm surprised by doing all right. I'm readying myself - I mean, yeah. [JORDAN] I have a psych session this Friday for the first time in three months, He doesn't know about my mum. So I'm gonna have to hit him - And he's so sweet. - He's like the loveliest guy. And, you know, he's emotionally He professionally is good at it. But it does feel like - [JARVIS] Yeah. - &quot;So... my guy.&quot; &quot;A funny thing happened - &quot;Um, yeah, this is something.&quot; He's like, &quot;Do you have any news?&quot; I'm like, &quot;Erm, yeah, I think I do.&quot; [JORDAN] Being kicked out of What's that, uh, it's like &quot;awkward Dr. Awkward has checked in. - Yeah. Oooh! That's not true. - Dr. Awkward's a palindrome. - [JARVIS] Wait, same way both ways? I believe you, but... Ohhh, that's cool. I learned it in a children's book - I recently read of palindromes. - Yeah, I read. I'm an intellectual. I can't wait to - I don't really but if I did, I'm gonna be such a nighttime story reader. - Ohhh. my niece has a children's book I'm just like, &quot;This is sick.&quot; &quot;I'm learning a lot about I'm gonna definitely, like, get down too many ADHD rabbit holes when I'm asked about how things work. Or, like, why things are. The kid is just gonna be like, Oh, yeah. &quot;Why is the - To us it is, of course. [JORDAN] Let me get a Hank Green video. Yeah. There's gonna be a lot of sources. - &quot;Let me call Uncle Hank. Let's ask.&quot; - Um... Yeah. &quot;I know I'm asking [JARVIS] He just plays - Of himself. You flew him out to your house - to do that. - He goes, &quot;Here you go.&quot; And it's just me watching it. &quot;Oh! Scratches my itch.&quot; - &quot;You see that, child?&quot; so this is perfect for me.&quot; Yeah. It's, um... I was trying to... It's white Jarvis. That's my kid. - The figure. It's not my house. I rented this. &quot;Hey, Hank. This is your house.&quot; [JORDAN] He's, I think, probably... foundational YouTuber for us, I think. - Uh, yeah. I mean, I wanna - I wanna have Hank and John but they never come out here. And, uh... I'm jealous that - I saw Kurtis did a episode I mean, not jealous-jealous, &quot;I want for me too!&quot; - Yeah. Um, supportive and excited jealous. I was like, &quot;Oh, sick!&quot; You know what's funny? When especially Great White North-wise, doing specials and big is it's never been a goal, so it's like a different kind of jealousy. - It's like a, &quot;Hey, big thing!&quot; - [JARVIS] &quot;Exciting!&quot; &quot;When do I get that You know, we both try and be balanced, - semi-self-aware about that stuff. It's not so much the feeling you can - Right. And that's the thing, just bad vibez central, which is the current town - The... Yeah, it's like you can't... It sucks because... Like, I was talking to She was like, &quot;Well, you have so much and you're taking steps and And I'm like, &quot;Yeah, it just Like, I have the tools - but I hate experiencing the feeling. I've saved up the money, but They won't accept the money. Yeah, it's like I can block the... the jutsu from my, you know, critic brain, but I still take chip damage. You know? - OK, now we're into it. Um, and it's like there's no perfect parry - [JORDAN] Yeah. that prevents me from taking... taking psychic damage. Dude, you're activating my brain, 'cause I'm trying to convince - [JARVIS] Ooh. very good at and very... I'll ask her if she's OK Uh - I don't give a shit. I'm famous. I can do Uh, I... She's really into - Pokemon GO Battle League right now. And, uh, she's very good at and very into poker. - Has been for a long time. And she was showing me, uh... optimal sheets, essentially. She's also playing chess, too, Poker has game theory optimization, - Oh, for sure. But she is very good at poker While she's showing me these sheets, What you're looking at, minus execution, you are looking at frame data. - You are looking at tier lists. - For context. - She's so good at counting. Ten... twenty... - And I know the rest. - you're past me at this point. Yeah, coding requires ones and zeros. I saw one of her things And I've taken a lot of and I was like, &quot;Man, I'm so glad It was like - 'cause it used to be like - Like, for my degree - it was one of the degree requirements. And - yeah, counting. And I was like... &quot;OK, I got one through five down, - &quot;Like a fucking squiggle?&quot; - [JARVIS] Yeah. [JORDAN] Yeah, six is a vibe. Yeah, and don't even get me started - Terrence Howard was your teacher. One times one is two. - &quot;One, two, man.&quot; That's not even a Terrence Howard - Jordan's Terrence Howard impression. [JARVIS] Right. - It's Jamie all the way down. Um... But yeah, you're trying to get I'm trying. It is a tall order, 'cause it'd be like if you're and then you were like, &quot;But hear this: it's not fun for 40 hours.&quot; [JORDAN] &quot;You have to find - or it won't be fun without practicing at home.&quot; - All the time. - She's already left. - all the combinations.&quot; &quot;Oh, OK. You have to memorize - the frame data of the moves.&quot; &quot;I love you. I love you, please!&quot; - Me running down the street after her. I'm at her apartment. - And she left. &quot;Please, there's - you know, &quot;Yeah, it's just like six!&quot; Um... &quot;You love that!&quot; Dude, teaching a math class and being like, &quot;One, two, etc.; a lot like six.&quot; &quot;Yeah, it's a lot like six.&quot; - So close. Describing things like numbers. Um... Like, I was getting on and it was kind of a lot like eight. - Yeah. - Yeah. I don't know what these there's eight guys there, I would imagine. I was watching F1, and they were on a track There's so many more cars than one. And I was like, &quot;F this.&quot; Ayyy, get that? Ayyy. - More like &quot;F you.&quot; - No, Jacob, come back. Shoutouts to Austin, by the way. I don't know if this is But he gifted us, on his way from the Great White North... Austin, one of our Came down for the live show. The Canadian Kit Kat. Those familiar with You know it's good because even though there's - What? No, not if - if you turn it around, yeah. Yeah, on this side it's just English. - I think it - I feel like, um... everything in Canada, you have to look at it at one angle. It's like a optical illusion. One way, it's English; You wanna know something jacked up? Yeah, I'll just show you. One sec. Oh. This is an incredible segue, Oh. Oh, I'm so sorry. The British passport - includes the French translation. On the other side. So what it looks like is, uh, January 2020 is when you get the passport, and it inspires in French January 2024. Uh, speaking of passports, I went yesterday - to go get a passport photo taken. Bad. Um, the guy - I went to the UPS store, and I don't know why people make such a - There's all these rules and regulations but in reality it was just like a guy with a weird camera. And then he took the photo from below me 'cause he was a bit shorter than me, and I said, &quot;Hey, do you want me to sit down?&quot; And so I'm standing up, towering over this man while he, - like I'm a fucking titan. - For your kaiju passport? Yeah, it's forced perspective. - I'm Gandalf or whatever. Yeah. And I get the photo. They print it on a little printer thing that is also a thing you None of these things are special. They're not, like, government-issued passport generator. It's just like a Canon photo printer and a shitty Canon camera. And, um, the photo looked bad. And this is, uh, no offense to the guy - just doing his job, but - - [JARVIS] OK. Rodrigo. Yeah, we found you. Uh, no. So... I was like, &quot;I can't do this.&quot; Then I was like, &quot;I can just take&quot; - You can take your own And so I came back here against one of the white walls, and I had Austin take a photo of me. Um, and then we submitted that. It's in that little frame, right, [JARVIS] Yeah, exactly. Um, but... Yeah, and so now... It was previously taken with and then I took it with and it was too high-definition, - to the point where - Where people are like, &quot;This looks like AI.&quot; Or, like... 'Cause the only time people like, high-definition, high-DPI images, are when they're generated by AI. And in the image, you have an extra tooth. - That's true, yeah. - No, I do have an extra. - An elegant nude. - that are unidentifiable in the picture. - Yeah, it's like a trick. If you blur your eyes, and if you focus on it So I hope they accept it. Once they accept it, then I'll release a few more [JORDAN] What could there be? It was AI! Um, yeah, it's got like - One-zero-one-zero... - it blinds them. They're like, &quot;Ah!&quot; Yeah. It's French. - If you look at it with one eye. - I told you that in confidence. Uh, I have a striped shirt and a beret on. - You're like a burglar. Yeah, I look like the Hamburglar. Why is... yeah, why's burglar attire the same as a mime? [JARVIS] Um... Because the mimes are trapped in invisible jail. Oh, they're all jailed. That's when they're grabbing the bars - and shaking them? &quot;Ahh!&quot; We should say, if nobody knows this, there's like a pretty significant modern clown and mime scene in LA. - LA, you know, trendy clown, where it's like alt and maybe, I don't know, Yeah, some people I know got into clowning. Uh, like who were in the People were like, &quot;Oh, yeah, I've got a clowning workshop this weekend.&quot; And I'm like, &quot;Why do you have that?&quot; - &quot;On purpose?&quot; - &quot;I'm actually going to invisible jail.&quot; so I'll be in a city center, uh, unable to move from a four-by-four square. You know what would be fun? where it begins with you doing, like, the petty misdemeanor, and then you going to court, and then you in, like, you're acting up in court, - doing movements and stuff. And then you're held in And it goes all the way until you are released on good behavior. You read the Bible at one part in between, and then you raise a family. That is probably what it looked like when I was in VR for a week. - I just had - I just had the headset on, I was like, &quot;Please, no!&quot; &quot;You're sentenced to VR jail,&quot; or whatever, which was a place. I did go to VR jail. &quot;It's 3D audio of people telling me - that I'm going to jail!&quot; but they were pretty serious. - That's the thrill of the Meta. where I was in a courtroom, and a lot of kids were yelling at me to get to the jury, which I assume is what [JORDAN] We've been through it. [JORDAN] We've been in gen pop. I went to, uh - when I had jury duty, um... I got let go. They were like, &quot;You're free to go!&quot; and I said, &quot;Oh. OK.&quot; - Did they do jury selection? you might not be selected, &quot;We'll see you in 2 years,&quot; or whatever. Pretty crazy idea, by the way. - Yeah. - Yeah, well - - Yeah. Yeah. &quot;He's too mean to my guy.&quot; All right, um, - we've got a couple things today. One of them is the reactions to GTA VI specifically from the Tate brothers - and Elon Musk. Um... So, we'll get to that. is this TikTok trend where people are getting I, uh, briefly, when we talked about it the other day, I took a brief look, but I'm like, I don't know if... I mean, and I don't know if there's much more to it than what I just described, but it is still very strange. Well, when I heard it, my brain went, you know, as an owner of quite a few myself, I truly... My instincts were like, &quot;Well... it's like a trendy, maybe a goofy And I thought it would be a vampire - two-dot bite. - Which, cool. I don't know. Not terrible. Would you be mad if I got it? My bite mark? Yeah. For the audio listeners, it is a... a girlfriend lining up to her very cool. I don't know baseball. - Uh, yeah. They... I... She's sidling up to bite him for real before getting the tattoo. This very much seems like a vampire tricked people. - This is what would - Yeah, it's like this is by Big Vampire. Oh, dude, this is nasty. - [JACOB] Yeah. That's, like - well, actually, I can't think of anywhere else - Yeah, the neck, I think. - A chunk. What if you got a you know the makeup they'll do Where somebody has, like, gashes like The Last of Us? Or when you watch... A friend of ours, Sophie, she works in makeup, right? And there's those hyperrealistic - where half their face is missing. And I think you have to 'cause when I see that... - I'm just like, &quot;Oh, Jesus.&quot; - [JARVIS] with gore in horror. Yeah, Saw gore, which sounds like a name - (deep voice) &quot;I am Sawgor.&quot; Um, but there'll be a horror movie trope where somebody's eye, I'm not even gonna describe it. But, uh, it's meant to make you wince, and I do. Even though I know it's fake, just 'cause it's like - Yeah. [JORDAN] I know all And I haven't desensitized 'cause I'm not a freak. - [JORDAN] I'm not insane, which you are. (Mitski's &quot;My Love Mine All Mine&quot; Uh, can we pause it on that frame? I don't think... Unpopular opinion. I don't think you - It looks pretty generic. what would be better about that is maybe you break up. - Yeah. Well, you know what's nice? something as obscure as, like, bite marks, maybe even a handprint, 'cause you can be like, Yeah, me and Sarah aren't together anymore, and I got it at the same time that Also, something I take into account when I get my dumbest tattoos, very coverable. - Right. I just don't even know if this tracks to me - as a bite mark. It would need more - it's not - - It's not really visceral enough. Like a bite, prior to the tattoo, it was more like &quot;Oh, what the hell? - What happened?&quot; 'Cause this just looks like Yeah, it looks like sweet corn. - [JARVIS] Yeah. Yeah, I don't really know But it's funny, because I guess if, um... you ever needed to, like - if you ever forgot who you were in a relationship with you can look at their dental records. It's like a Memento tattoo for forensics. You go to the police office and you go, &quot;Hey, could you pull up [JARVIS] &quot;I'm trying to &quot;We're arresting you for being annoying.&quot; Uh, I would be... Is &quot;disappointed&quot; the right way to put it? If I was the girlfriend I'd be - I mean, look - this is... Not to, like, um... yuck anybody's yum. This is the same to me as, like, tattooing a partner's name. - Mmhmm. Which, risky biscuit. It's a risky biscuit. It's risky business. There's tattoos in frame right now I think my differences are they were dumb from the start, and this is a... Even the music in the background - I like your tattoos, though. But it's not - like, I get... I get it from the other side. I actually, I was thinking the other day, when and why did I start getting them? There's some life circumstances But I realized it might resonate specifically with you, because one of the reasons was I was sick - or one of the things that I think tattoos code against is being branded by, especially white people, as &quot;light skin softboy.&quot; - Mm. - and a bow tie, and you're like... &quot;Yeah, I'm actually the - of the thing you wanna be attracted to.&quot; - wearing, like, just glasses rims. Like, they were wearing And it was a style, a preppy style. Very, uh, College Dropout-coded. I have so many memories of just, including when I moved here, just people being like, &quot;He's so fancy. He's like, you know...&quot; avoiding the terminology of what I don't know. Actually, 'cause it was such a white town. &quot;You're beautiful. - You just look so delicate.&quot; There's... I'm projecting in parts. I'm sure some people were but the people my age - were saying that pretty explicitly. 'Cause they didn't know They would just be like, &quot;Yeah, Less like gangster, like...&quot; It's like you're a Yeah, a beautiful black creature, a... - beeeeeeee - I was just rewatching - somebody to maybe the first N-word And it's so funny. It is, &quot;Ahhhh!&quot; - It's perfectly synced yells. There was, um - a comment on a Sad Boyz where someone was like... I was talking about when people, like... What's the word? They... Something-ize you. - Fetishize? - &quot;Oh, I love your hair.&quot; Like, that type of compliment. Like, it's one that you have to, like... - receive in a specific context and know the history of Somebody was like, &quot;They were I swear, you guys are so soft.&quot; And it's like, I don't know if I was... You know, they always say that, but you go to their Twitter and - Like, it's the same thing. - It's actually cool.&quot; &quot;You sound pretty soft, I think, actually.&quot; - But - Yeah. It's weird. It's like... 'Cause sometimes I feel, uh, you know... There's an element of colorism to this too, so I do not get this the same way I would if my skin was darker. But... Like, getting... uh, you know, called &quot;aggressive,&quot; like, um, when I've not really... don't have a history of raising my voice in, you know, content or anything like that, or yelling or actually being angry. Maybe I'll be a little pissy. Maybe I'll be a little Passive-aggressive, emphasis on &quot;passive.&quot; But I'm never like (growls). But there is a thing where, um... you know, Black people are called - - It's like a microaggression or whatever. - Um... is like a term that... people that don't get it find... frustrating, or at least find invalid because of the word &quot;micro.&quot; It's like, &quot;What, you're upset And it's like, well, I'm not yelling and screaming. - and you're annoying me. It's like, but it's also the things that happen in the micro - add up. And so that's why it's like 'cause that thing happens and it adds up to, you know, like a micromort... - like a micromort adds up to your death. I mean, that's also, like, a... explicitly aggressive or not even just racist, in some ways, it's clearer, because fewer people are And if somebody does, it's like, &quot;Look at this freak. Don't we as opposed to people &quot;Oh my god, it's like a sheep.&quot; Yeah, exactly, which is - another comment that I've gotten. [JARVIS] Uh, but it's more, um, cringe than it is anything else. Like, I'm not losing sleep over this. It's just like... Seeing someone that corny is painful. - Yeah, it's true. Or just, like, lack of... I think there's a certain lack of awareness in stuff like that that's like... It's, um... It's not in the meme cringe, - but it's quite literally cringeworthy. It's like gore. I'm wincing - and being like, &quot;Ugh.&quot; Let's watch. What if it continued, and it was like a perspective... It was like the, um, you looked at the arm and it was like your girlfriend biting you? - Like from the inside out? Like when you look at, where you look at them at an angle Yeah, you see some, like, chalk graffiti against a sidewalk, and it's like, &quot;Oh my god, Yeah. &quot;And he's standing up.&quot; Wait, Jacob, can we briefly I think I noticed something. Oh, thank god. I was wrong. I'm sorry. For a second, I thought the tattooist like the stripes. But I guess the perspective was just off. Yeah, how awkward would that be, if you run into somebody else who has your girlfriend's bite mark on them? - Yeah. And a kiss, and a heart. Let's go side by side.&quot; And then you touch, and You're like, &quot;I have to &quot;I dated her right after her Invisalign.&quot; Oh, yeah. Damn. - &quot;Has she been wearing her retainer?&quot; UGH! See, that's the weird one! Ooh. That one's a... Uh, probably won't show that one, just 'cause it's a little more - A more visceral bite. - That's what I was picturing. - [JACOB] This one is... Or the shoulder, I guess? [JACOB] They do it, I think, in red. - Yeah. Ohhhh. - 'Cause then it looks like it never heals. They did it in red. That's crazy. - Also, they did it - Like, &quot;Hey, are you OK?&quot; That looks more like one of those, uh, 3D scans when you get braces or something. - Yeah. is less flattering than those little staple shapes they did for the other one. - Yeah. - &quot;Oh, I'm inside the mouth.&quot; Is there a place I can get this shit? Or something? I don't know. These look like ads for the I don't want to say anything 'cause they're just Go get other tattoos from - Well, or go get a bite mark tattoo (Mitski's &quot;My Love Mine All Mine&quot; - Yeah. I don't know if we can play the song, These don't look the same. Like... The convention is shifting a lot. - Yeah. Is that, like, partially red, or - I'm so confused. None of these look the same. [JACOB] Yeah. I also think, just personally, I don't mind... Not everyone needs like a sleeve There's always something really odd tattoo. Just, yeah, on a completely It makes me think you're in a frat or - The brand. - &quot;I never really wanted one, but my girlfriend wanted to bite me.&quot; This is a bad time for me that I have that's my sole tattoo. - A previous cohost of a podcast? I went to the tattoo artist &quot;Is it extra? Is it extra It's on your back, and you don't know &quot;Ow. Tattoos really do hurt!&quot; &quot;In a big kind of sphere.&quot; &quot;Yeah, no one really talks about it, And he's like, &quot;Wait, what?&quot; &quot;No, like the tattoo gun, &quot;And the shape after the tattoo You see somebody with a sleeve. &quot;How did you cover up all the bite marks?&quot; - &quot;Damn, somebody was hungry, huh?&quot; Om-nom-nom-nom. If you get a sleeve. Om-nom-nom! Also, it's not like a... a nibble or something. It's like a medical bite mark. It's like... Like a &quot;say ah&quot; kind of bite mark. It's like - maybe this is but it feels Twilight-coded. - Yeah, it does. &quot;I've placed my ownership on you.&quot; All right, well, uh... I don't know what the hell that is. Once we hit a certain goal on the Uh, you are also...? Yeah, I'm gonna get one on my butt. - I get it around my nose. [JACOB] There were ones where - Oh my god. - Yeah. On the Patreon, I'll post a TikTok of somebody biting my ass. - And then I get a TikTok. Yeah. Oh, god. Yeah, there's a specific tier. - 20 spots available. That was unwise. Um, OK, so... GTA VI trailer came out. - Ahh! That was it. You know, after 10 years of one of the most successful, most profitable games - of all time - piece of entertainment - Well, there you go. - That is insane. - I think that's way more. Right, 'cause its total has 'cause it's been hundreds for several years. The reason that people knew, even before a trailer was coming out, that there was and it was probably gonna come 2K, the publisher, posted expected revenue, and it's $7 billion. It's increased, something And they're like, &quot;Wow, feeling good Feeling pretty psyched about GTA Online?&quot; Though, if you pop back We are not gonna watch the trailer, 'cause we've heard but our friend Alanah took the risk. So watch your back, Alanah. Though the views, - very tight, very good. Um... I - I'm gonna watch the trailer, 'cause I haven't watched it yet. - Um... I heard they're going back. They're going back to San Andreas? [JORDAN] No. Welcome home, dude. They're going - oh, to LA. - But what do they call it - - [JORDAN] Your home. They're going back to Miami? - Yeah, Vice City, baby! Um... Well, that's not my home. But, uh... Vice City? Uh, but yeah. Let's... Let's watch it. I'm gonna watch it, is what I meant to say. - You don't get to see it. - [JARVIS] Yeah, it broke MrBeast's record. - Come again? - I don't check the analytics. It's OK if we have less. - I just - I think we're close. Check those analytics. Um, so trailer came out, broke all the records. Some of our favorite people, uh, have had responses to this. - Um... Uh, one I wanna look at is - Oh, yeah. So... First of all, the reason - was because of a leak. Um, they did it in response to a leak and now no one's gonna They released a trailer for a game that because someone leaked it anyway. There was a lead producer whose son's friend leaked footage and stuff from his computer. - [JORDAN] Dude, so bold. You have to come from a level of - I'm guessing - a level of privilege you are invincible. They will have you killed. - They have the most money. It's like the, um... Wizards of the Coast Yeah, 'cause a guy was mailed something by them. By them, yeah. Um... And, uh... The... oh, yeah. So one of the responses - this is just whatever, but it's funny - is from Adin Ross. Can we click this first link, Jacob? Adin Ross is doing a live with... - someone I... - Oh, OK. &quot;Rockstar employee on Adin Ross's stream&quot;? Why - that would put their job in danger. Do they just not think - I'm confused, but whatever. If anyone was gonna fuck their life up... Also, you gotta crop out your battery life. That always blows my mind. I'm so self-conscious about it. Yeah. OK. We can hit play. - [LEAKER] You wanna know all the details? [LEAKER] The juicy stuff? Lucia is the main character, and she's gonna be the main character. [ROSS] I don't like that a girl is the [LEAKER] She's iconic. Don't worry. It's not gonna be like the typical... It's gonna really blow people away. [ROSS] But, like, bro, I feel like they're Like, bro, we don't need [LEAKER] I hear you, but trust me, First of all, this was they revealed it was a female protagonist. - Oh. - [JARVIS] Oh, yeah. Not to be cynical about it. Maybe it's no longer that, They... Rockstar's probably of not having any male protagonist at all. That's probably - or at least a costar. They already had the tech to hop around in GTA V or whatever. Just imagine having the instinct. It's within seconds. He's immediately like, &quot;Oh, that pisses me off, bro.&quot; It's like, yeah, he's become It's so funny just being like, boomer-y. And being just like... His face changes kind of so fast I didn't even know - He gets that message so fast. [JORDAN] &quot;Come on!&quot; - [JARVIS] &quot;It's a woman?!&quot; And all his chat's probably like, - &quot;W, W, W, W.&quot; And he's like, &quot;OK, chat, you like that? &quot;Do you guys think &quot;But I'm just a crowd work - Drops the mic. - [JORDAN] Drops the phone. - Which one of them? I feel like he's gonna show up on - Adin Ross's stream at some point. Sad Boyz guest, guys. Make sure Matt Rife coming on, January 6th. - Nope. - Stop it. Also, the instinct to be like, &quot;Hey, um... The reason they're doing this - What year do you think we're in? That's such a funny thing. &quot;They're just trying to of the time... that we live in.&quot; That actually is always You know how people, even kind of boomers, know that... socially, racism is wrong. Like, they know that - 99% of people know that racism is a thing you have to say is wrong. It doesn't matter how you perform that or what your practice is. It's just the rules. Racism's wrong. The Civil War happened. States' rights, &quot;Racism's wrong, but we solved it.&quot; [JORDAN] Exactly. But people will just do completely racist It's like, &quot;You have to follow the rules. - but you can do everything.&quot; They always have to justify it principle, or, &quot;Well, it's because - They're recasting The Little Mermaid. It's cynical.&quot; And I'm like... First of all, everything's cynical. Rockstar doesn't care about you. You're annoying to them. Yeah, look at the fucking It's like everything is - Money's the motive, right? But the reason they're doing it, they always seem to forget, is like... - non-guys buy GTA. Everyone buys GTA. GTA is, like you said, one of the biggest Like, number one, I don't know if Housers but let's just say the Houser They wanted to make a story That is pretty much or you can't do a very You could not make the same argument &quot;They're adapting 'cause people - Yeah. people did want a game in the Old West. They wanted to make a - They made a good game in the Old West. [JORDAN] It's not like, like... What is bothering you about it, or that guy who's like, &quot;Pronouns!&quot; Yeah, it's such a surface-level critique. [JORDAN] It's just vibes-based. - It's vibes. But what's so funny about this is, uh, the reaction from, uh, Elon Musk... who... - [JORDAN] Fucking loser. Famous edgy edgelord, uh, king of sticking it to the libs. - [JORDAN] The king of sting, baby! He's... he doesn't let anybody tell him what he's gonna do. Elon Musk, the Roastmaster Yeah. He was asked in a Twitter thread about GTA V, and his response is so funny. It felt like it took me back to Fox News being upset about - the Hot Coffee mod in, like, like, what was that? - The San Andreas mission? Where, um... By the way... My point is that... Grand Theft Auto has been for the entirety of its lifetime. And the controversies - from pearl-clutching conservatives. And one of the controversies, uh, was this thing called the Hot Coffee mod, where someone discovered that you could modify the game beyond - like, so basically, there were assets in the game - of a sex scene. And it was not accessible. A playable, offscreen sex scene - - No penetration on screen, no nudity. that was removed from the game, People found it, hacked it back into the game, and then there was a to the point that it escalated and they, uh, had to change the ESRB rating - of the game. And then they were able to and get back to a T rating Yeah. Oh, it went from, I think, R to X. - Yeah. Or, like, the ESRB, it's like, um... M to A. Oh, yes, that's right. &quot;A&quot; is adults only. Also, Australia and a lot of Europe are so... so soy and beta about that kinda stuff. In the UK, we couldn't get Bully, the other - Oh. Well, this is partly on Rockstar and 2K. Horrible name. I loved that game. It's a Latin name that means &quot;dog eat dog,&quot; and it's Canis Canem Edit. - [JARVIS] Oh. and the logo is just like the school logo. - [JARVIS] Oh. &quot;Hey, do you guys wanna &quot;Pay for it. Pay for that game, children.&quot; &quot;Do you guys wanna go to (gasps) &quot;Oh, boy, yeah!&quot; &quot;Put down San Andreas. It's time to learn.&quot; So, Grand Theft Auto, is a game... - about crime. - The title of it is a crime. You do it five times. Uh, one of the - like, you do missions, oftentimes committing crimes. Heists. It's Heat. GTA V is the movie Heat. Yeah. And, uh, one of the things that kids did for all of time is fuck around with the game, hack in all the guns and stuff, blow things up, get the cop - There's a star system Basically, if you do a small crime, you one-star. You do a bunch of crimes Then they're sending SWAT team, As a kid, that becomes its own game. Now you're like, &quot;I wanna defeat the cops, Putting in the &quot;all weapons&quot; hack, and just doing that was, I would say, most, like, younger people's GTA. - You don't do the rest of the game. And to a lot of people, - [JORDAN] Yeah, dude. about violence in video games, that this is what GTA is, is my point. Um... and, uh - And so Elon had the most baffling statement. - say this in public. His tweet is, &quot;Tried GTA V, but didn't like doing crime.&quot; Dude, it's such a pathetic thing to say. - I don't believe you at all. Why is...? On that moral barometer, why is murder in other settings fine? Dude, Harvest Moon? Loved it. - Hate farming. As a concept. I'm not trying to go out and be a farmer. - I hate agriculture. - There's corn. - I don't wanna be a lawyer. LA Noir? I don't like living in the past. I couldn't... I couldn't... I didn't wanna defend anyone so I couldn't play the lawyer game - Um... in the opening scene. Just couldn't do it.&quot; It's... I just - imagining - - Yeah. Have you seen that meme of the, uh - Jacob, can you type in &quot;little boy gun stock photo&quot;? Uh, it's the... Oh, yeah. It's the second row. The second row. And then The Winnie the Pooh guy. And then scroll down to the like photos. Go to the second - yeah, this is... This is - this is... - Elon - - This is Elon playing GTA, dude. Yeah, he's like, &quot;No! I respect the law!&quot; Little Winnie the Pooh-color clothed kid, - almost shooting, getting upset, and crying with a gun in his hand. It's just so... I think what maybe rings so hollow about it is he is lying. Not lying that he didn't play GTA V. But he is lying that - that is the ethical reason. - Who's he performing for? You grossly overestimate how much It feels like - I don't know, but he's, like... uh, running out of people - [JORDAN] Yeah. uh, counter that narrative. - Knowingly or not. Yeah, he keeps doing wild stuff, &quot;I thought he was 'Cause when we had never heard him talk and just heard him, like, we thought he was the a big ol' smart guy. His branding really early on was, &quot;I'm kinda like a real... - I'm kind of like a real-life Iron Man.&quot; [JORDAN] It'd be like if Tony Stark and we eventually were like, &quot;I don't Yeah. Have you seen Avengers? - See how many fucking civilians die? Dude, have you rewatched the - [JARVIS] No. first two times Iron Man does anything, it is fighting miscellaneous - Middle Eastern terrorists. Unnamed, deliberately. And his motivation before he gets captured, like the reason he's fighting back, is because he's in like a Humvee in, again, anonymous And one of the... &quot;Thank you for your service, by the way.&quot; &quot;Tony Stark, I'm a huge fan. And then he dies in the explosion. And then, like, his backstory is like - his father was a war profiteer. Well, he's in Afghanistan - Yeah, and he's a weapons dealer. And then the first time he does with the paint job, everything, he flies down to just somewhere. To just some camp, and is just murdering. - Uh, &quot;terrorists.&quot; And just shooting on them. They - He's GTA-ing. - thank you for your service, Mr. Stark? Thank you for doing... crime for our benefit. Thank you for saving us - The fictional terror threat. - Couldn't do it. Especially war crimes. - Couldn't be me, dude. I quit. - That's so fucking funny. And then, um, the Tate brothers But before we look at this, we also have to list some of have also spoken out about, like books. Um, books and movies. - Recording of history. Uh, just things in general. Oh, by the way, speaking out against music which is an affront to I can see, if I had that rap career, I would wanna eliminate - Um... - &quot;It's do or die!&quot; (as Tate) &quot;I hate music, &quot;I hate GTA V, because - That's his, uh, slam poetry session. That he also had to have removed. He was at the slam poetry set with, uh... - with Rose from Black.White. - He's a def jam. People don't know that. [ANDREW] New GTA VI is out. Have you ever [TRISTAN] I believe - that I played the first one. [TRISTAN] That's like a top-down, - birds-eye view, kinda 2D game [TRISTAN] without any graphic - GTA one?! [TRISTAN] ...it came out. I do recall that. But you know what? I'm gonna speak - 'cause now we're actually talking about - OK, it's got &quot;rumble&quot; in the top left, they have is from the stream itself. It's pretty fucking telling that them not liking it, it's just photos of Black people. - Oh, yeah. It's none of the vistas or missions. The protagonist isn't in it at all. It's just like, &quot;Ah! This is scary, I feel like.&quot; I love that Tristan Tate played GTA one. I don't even know if or if he's pretending to or if he's giving himself where he's like, I don't think that's true. Wait, yeah, was he saying the He kind of implied that. We could go back. We could just I do think it's funny &quot;Yeah, I haven't played a Grand Theft - I played it when it was I played it when it was in &quot;But I can't remember. He sounds like he's either played all of them and knows it very well, or knows nothing about it and checked, 'cause that's a common thing as well, there's somebody called Rose, or some shit, - and Knuckles, and they're friends, and... Yeah, Amy Rose, like his girlfriend, - It's like, &quot;I don't...&quot; &quot;What? He's running or something? - Dr. Robotnik is also known as Eggman?&quot; in case you were curious.&quot; &quot;This isn't my kinda shit.&quot; &quot;I actually played it when it was, um... when it was a, uh, tabletop paper RPG.&quot; [TRISTAN] I remember you used to trying to rescue a princess and teaming up with your brother. Now, if rescuing purity from evil - Is this a real take - Is he...? This is truly... um... I'm gonna tell you when these The year is 2010. Mass - The headline is &quot;'SE'XBOX?&quot; on Fox News. Uh, because you could romance characters in offscreen relationships in Mass Effect. And &quot;games are only made for children&quot; Like, &quot;Cartoons are for children. Can you believe the stuff they're putting Adults buy games so much more, to the point Nintendo is the - to make games for kids anymore. And so, um... It's remarkable to me that they're going... &quot;I remember when games were, like, you could be a wizard.&quot; &quot;And now you've got... You're going to a strip club and someone's twerking.&quot; You know, I can actually remember and it's this year. It's, uh, the latest Mario that came out. [JARVIS] Super Mario Wonder, I think, Also around the same time that that red-hat man was saving a princess, there were games like Look it up in text before It is more... uh, explicit and, like, offensive and triggering than - Than anything that's ever been in the history of the series. So much so that it's literally illegal. You cannot publish that now, including at X. - [JARVIS] Yeah. I don't recommend most people look it up. I don't recommend it. to this concept that games were always - this squeaky-clean thing. I remember when books about a guy with a long beard flipping over gambling tables. I remember when books were - They were small, they were square, and they had names like Miss Sunshine and Mr. Moustache, and shit. - And, uh, there were - Nothing bad happened in any of the books. I remember a time where art was drawn on the cave wall and was supposed to represent Um, I remember a time when there was a book And he wore a raincoat. - A yellow hat. - Is the guy wearing a yellow hat? - [JORDAN] What is going on? Not anymore. - I remember a time. Where I interviewed that guy All right, let's keep playing. [TRISTAN] I'm not a fan of anyone under the age of 18 - 21, maybe - playing video games where the goal is to shoot police officers. I just don't think that's good for society. With all the amazing graphics and engines and whatever people put I feel like you could create a better objective with the game, you know? Maybe you are the police officer. Maybe - - Those games exist. - Uh... so GTA's for 18 and above. - Yeah, it's... - Isn't GTA rated M? [JORDAN] Or R, or I don't M in ESRB, which is 17+. Yeah, that's interesting. I... OK. Well, it should be for 21. - 21 is wild. It's, um... It's such a funny... I think you should be 26. - before you play it. make this statement about any media, because, like, why stop I don't think there should be any They're also doing that pioneered by the dark professor, Jordan P. Peterson or whatever the hell. The meat man, beef daddy. He, uh, where you take a piece of media, really simple media for babies, and then you over-intellectualize it usually any kind of feminine You make that &quot;purity;&quot; and then you take the mission being... You just make it into a Cinderella. [JORDAN] Or you make it specifically into 'cause it's the only media from before 2005. It's just funny, 'cause even on its face, without extrapolating anything they are comparing a game for children - to a game for late teens and adults. It's like the mission is different, - is I believe the way they phrased it. to a movie that's rated R, quite literally, because that's the same age ranges. You can't deliver the same GTA V is just about, like... It's about three guys that suck. And, like, they're really bad people and they're miserable because they're bad. And then at the end - One of the two worser of them die. That's the choice. Spoilers for a 10-year-old game. And actually, when I was a shitty I was just like, &quot;This... This is deep. This is actually wild. I can't believe that Like, no, it's about people not being great to be around. I couldn't get through shooting cops, [JORDAN] Oh, right, yeah. I'm realizing now, nooo. This is before I understood the - thin blue line, or whatever. Thank you for your... Thank you for your service Austin, thank you for your service - Shoutout to - - Flipping the salute the other way. which is a game for patriots. Yeah, dude, that's a pro-government game. Yeah, I really liked Peace Walker, where you build a private - Because that's the opposite of a cop. has no subtext about how bad, um, - war is. Yeah, it's about how war, yeah, and war machines are super dope, - and war crimes are sick. They just don't watch movies, right? [JARVIS] Yeah. I don't think they're when the last time they was when they were 10 years old. What do they...? - Hmm. Yeah. Pretending to like - [JARVIS] Yeah. They... like... &quot;I've got no time for media. I'm too busy fighting evil.&quot; &quot;I'm busy talking about when I was in MMA.&quot; Maybe this is not What is... - Why is &quot;President Gay&quot; trending? All right. I don't even - Um... it's GTA, or whatever. &quot;Look Up 'Gay.'&quot; Jacob right-clicked on the post, and it just said &quot;Look Up 'Gay.'&quot; Do look up &quot;gay&quot; real quick.&quot; Wait, that's us. &quot;Immature people seeing &quot;Rest in...&quot; It's just people asking why it's trending. It's an ouroboros. That's when, um... when trending topics were - Weird things like &quot;the&quot; would trend, and everybody would just I think we were hanging out yesterday and we saw, like, &quot;Hasan&quot; trending, and I just tapped it, like, &quot;What's usually he's streamed or is streaming, - and a bunch of people mention him. Just happens every single day. - [JORDAN] Bro. Um, all right. Well, do we have any, uh... like... good closing thoughts on this? - That shot of the baby with the gun... that thing about Elon later Oh my god, Austin's doing it right now. The rat. Elon playing the beginning of GTA V. Gamers, we are heading off to the Patreon episode One of the reasons is gotten my ass in gear, and I have so I can get my American license. On the Patreon, we are going to be watching a Jubilee video, specifically &quot;6 Black Women vs 1 Secret Asian Woman&quot;? But we end every episode of Sad Boyz Oh, by the way, Patreon.com/SadBoyz. And you can subscribe now, and Patreon.com/WeLoveYou. And we're sorry. But actually it's Patreon.com/SadBoyz. But we love you and we're sorry. Goodbye! - How long y'all cook your greens for? What shows did people watch? - I was like Tia &amp; Tamera. [JARVIS] Girlfriends, anybody? - (all talking at once) - [JORDAN] But skip Joey's. A new world. - Girlfriends. I was like, someone please say Girlfriends. (outro music)