stop Take off their hoods for me. Look This is where you'll be working. The imperial dynasty wanted to build an ancient plank road Mine the iron ore from the mountain This plank road alone took three years to build. The prisoner I escorted did not die on the road Most of them died on the stone wall. Compared to dying halfway up the mountain This is not tragic, right? Keep an eye on them, don't let them idle Show me everything Work, hurry up Be quick Hurry up, hurry up Hurry up, hurry up, hurry up Push over there hurry up hurry up hurry up You, come here Kneel down hurry up Kneel down Hurry up! From today on, you are under my control. They are all damn thieves. Fortunately, I managed to save my life Atone for my sins right here. If there is laziness This whip in my hand I can't forgive you. I heard that Gan Ye likes to play with guns This gun was brought from Nanhuai I'm honoring you, Mr. Gan. The twisted tiger is wrapped around the neck of the gun The tip of the gun is nine inches It's a good gun This is my gun Come here Your life is mine. What do you have? This gun is mine now. And you will be the one I use this gun Kill the first level people Prepare the noose Let these mice go to work Master, how should he deal with it? Hurry up, hurry up Hurry up, don't dawdle The king ordered me to guard this cliff It's been ten years No one Can escape from my hands You know they privately What do you call me? Not interested Then let me tell you They call me hyena They thought I didn't like the title. I actually like it Because I am worthy of the name What's wrong with hyenas? You can smell it by just smelling it The smell of you rats I'm gonna bite you to death It's even easier But the mice are dead. What else is fun about hyenas? adult So what do we do? Don't dawdle What are you doing? You will know when you go down Come on, turn around. Turn around What are you looking at? Get to work. hurry up Pull up Sheep are supposed to be food for hyenas. Not a mouse You cheap guys How can you deserve to eat something so good? But the news just came The king has a happy event recently I had a sheep slaughtered and roasted. It's a good omen What are you all standing there for? Eat. As the saying goes A breath of life Ghost Credit Half a Mouth of Rice After finishing this meal You have to work hard with this worthless life. Thank you, Mr. Gan. Thank you, Gan Ye Thank you, Mr. Gan May I ask what good news this is for the king? Our Xia Tang Princess and Qing Yang Prince are getting married What nonsense are you talking about? What does it have to do with you? If you don't eat it, I'll feed it to the dog. Asul Eat, eat, eat Eat, eat, eat Asule married Princess Baili Not Princess Baili Although this princess is not the king's biological child But the king treated her as his own daughter That's why I give you these rewards. yes It's Princess Yu Ran Of course. The Crown Prince Get to work right after eating. Yu Ran impossible Asul No Pull him back to me. Where do you want to go? I don't believe it The Crown Prince The Crown Prince Princess The princess is marrying the prince What does it have to do with you? Who the hell do you think you are? The Crown Prince Maybe They are in the bridal chamber now, Princess. Of course, what's the point of not having a bridal chamber after getting married? You think I want to, too. Save your energy, there is still a long way to go Come I've seen a lot of people like you. Full of anger Struggling desperately Do you know what the ending is? All dead No need to be tortured by the people above I've exhausted myself. young people Living comes first Come That's right. Look what I hid for you. Just now You didn't eat a bite of meat He was taken back to Ganzhou and beaten. not worth Next time you see meat I don't know when it is. Thank you for giving me food and drink Actually, you don't care about me I'll die if I die You fulfilled a wish for me. I just have a conscience I just can't bear to watch you die. Old man, stop joking. I've only been here for a short time. When will I help you fulfill your wish? I've been exiled here longer than you have. How long? I can't remember it myself Too many people died in front of me But what about me who is thin? But survived Do you know what sustains me? I work hard I bow and nod to everyone I meet Just for one thing Get out Land on both feet once But before that? I want to have a full meal You ran away today Your share was given to me. So thanks to you This is how I came here over the years The most satisfying meal Young man, you want to live. I can also show you the way There's a river down here. But there is a stone beach Fall Falling on the stone It's death Falling into deep water is life Leave it to fate Do you dare? Ganzhou, they call us rats There's nothing wrong with that. We, the death row inmates, are here. Only a code name, no name If it's not a mouse, then what is it? There's nothing wrong with mice. One person eats enough, the whole family is not hungry No worries Someone, help! Who is coming? Stop shouting These dogs I don't care about the life or death of a mouse. Work Get to work hurry up Don't waste time, hurry up The old man's body Aren't you going to fish it out? At least give him a burial. What are you shouting about? People die every day, can we make up for it? You keep talking. I cut your rope and go with him What are you looking at? Are you tired of living? What are you staring at? Get to work Mr. Sun, don't be angry. This wild boy is so bold I'll teach him a lesson right now Someone, come and see what's going on. yes go Work hard Don't dawdle, hurry up Are you looking for death? Be honest, kid. I really want to die. Let's jump down and die together. Let me go, let me go, go Wild Let me go Wild Wild You have to survive You must live on. Wild Wild What are you looking at? I'm tired of living. Ganzhou, you must remember To tame a wild dog you must fight But you have to give me something to eat after the fight This way the wild dogs will follow you obediently Yes Yes Mr. Sun is indeed smart. adult You will be returning to the capital tomorrow. Tonight, let me entertain you. Don't go home until you are drunk Sir, please hurry up you Hurry up, hurry up uncle Sir, spare my life. Sir, you want a gun. Let's talk. We can talk about anything. The gun is mine. Why should I talk to you? The gun is yours, take it. But if you kill me I will have to bear the stigma of a death row inmate for the rest of my life. I just killed two soldiers. Already a death row inmate Now there's not much of you uncle uncle Oh no, the prisoner escaped. Count the number of people quickly Protecting Ganzhou stop Don't move If you fall on a rocky beach, you will die. Falling into the water Old Man I'm here to learn from your narrow escape daughter Let go, let go of my mother daughter Let go of my mother open daughter daughter Let go of my mother. open daughter daughter daughter open daughter daughter daughter Come back to me My Lord, you will return to the imperial capital tomorrow. Tonight, let me entertain you. Don't go home until you are drunk Elderly You borrowed this life I will use it well How much does this cost? That second article Yu Ran just came to the capital Said he wanted to see the scenery of the imperial capital Thank you, Princess Royal. The Crown Princess just arrived It would be nice to take you two to see it. I'm sorry for all the hard work you've put in. Do you still have the energy to see this scenery? Seeing the scenery is false, observing people is true As your boss I have to look at the people you usually come into contact with. Who are they? What are you doing? This princess is beautiful, dignified and generous. I think it's good She is the princess of the imperial capital Don't joke around. It's OK We haven't seen each other for a long time. Cheers to our long-awaited reunion. Brother Are you really going to win against the Princess of Liguo? And then hold her soft and fragrant body in your arms? I think Princess Liguo is just teasing us. Besides, even if a beauty favors you Ladies and Gentlemen, who dares to marry Her father is Ying Wuyi You've made a mistake. Then people will lose their heads. Second place Did you see the box on that person? There's probably a gun in there. In my opinion There's a good chance there's an antique in there. Antiquities Then take it and play with it. etc. In this imperial capital Walking at night with a weapon It's hard to say they're not bandits I think Even if I kill you, it's not too much You're so poor. It's also worthy of such a good thing you Let me go It hurts, it hurts. Tell me again Do you know who I am? Loosen me up Shen Yuan This is what they call a tiger in troubled times being bullied by a dog. Didn't you fight with my father on the battlefield? How did you fall to now? Fight these pigs Really dead Yu Ran What are you looking at? roll Go, go, go, go Your Highness Hit to this extent If you have any questions, you can ask them. Nothing to ask Just having fun Tired of fighting You guys keep fighting yes you in the end What do you want? You can still speak. I beat you for so long without saying a word. I thought I knocked you out. You What do you want? Do you know how the cat plays with the mouse? After the cat catches the mouse The mouse will be injured. Give me a happy Kill me I still remember my father on the battlefield What did I say to you? He said he would wait until you become a famous general. Then go compete with him for the world My father likes strong opponents He said that this is the only way to make the battlefield more fun But I'm different I am a woman I can't let those The person who fought with my father for the world is alive So you will die No need to rush Then hit I asked you to entertain the nobles. You are good The race is on Several people were injured in the fall. Two of them fought with swords for the top spot Okay, another one injured. How much more trouble are you going to cause me? It's the end. Father, you can't pretend to be a kind gentleman. Why do you want me to dress up as a graceful lady? You are a foreigner, and so am I. We leave the country When has there ever been a person like that? Although it is a sophistry There is some truth in this You've been quiet these two days. It is said that there are some new toys. Father, you also placed scouts around me That's not the case. But a princess Kidnapped a man for no reason And I whipped her every day This kind of thing There is no scout It will also spread It is in front of the ancient monument The guy who said he wanted to challenge you I don't know what happened Maybe he committed a crime? Drifting to the imperial capital What a coincidence Let me see you on the street I brought it back. Is that the guy with the gun? It's a bit strange. What's wrong? That's been a long time. You still remember him? What does this mean? I don't remember him I remember his gun. All right In the battle of Gubeikou, apart from Xi Yan Those two guys. The one that impressed me the most It's strange to say These two guys They entered the dungeon of our Duke's Mansion one after another. This is interesting. But I tell you This boy has the look of a hero. Can kill him But don't insult him. You really haven't thought about it Let him be used by us? Don't say This guy really looks a bit like our Li countryman If I tame this beast Let him use his words for us How will you reward me? You are my daughter This world What else do you want that you haven't gotten yet? good Then we have a deal Pour tea It's been so long. Still this look why are you laughing? I laugh You are a princess from a foreign country. Humiliated by a pawn on the battlefield Can be turned over and over Just whipping Is there anything more brutal? Take him to the dungeon yes Walk Go inside Go quickly What are you looking at? Enter I heard that when choking on water It will be so painful that I want to vomit my lungs out I'll give you one last chance. Do you beg for mercy or not? Your Highness How long should he stay in there? How long can people stay? Tried The longest one lasted for a cup of tea. But when I dragged it out The person is already half dead Then ask this question again after a cup of tea. yes Wild Ye'er, you have to remember When you grow up You can only save yourself Why is it so quiet? It's a bit wrong When someone throws it in They will struggle desperately But this time it was like throwing a dead person in. Is it time for a cup of tea? Three points to go Pull it up and see Is it time for a cup of tea? Three points to go Pull it up and see Are you really not afraid of death? Now I can't die yet I have another person to kill. You said you came to the capital to kill someone. before The person who runs this prison Me and my mother Suffered from his bullying daughter daughter Let go of my mother Daughter, Daughter Let go of my mother Let go of my mother I won't let go of any one The one who made my mother suffer You are a soldier from Xia Tang How come I'm in jail here? I I was born in the capital Childhood Something happened at home My father left with my aunt and my brother. But I don't remember Take me and my mother away After we were caught Live in this place here It can't drown me. I am often imprisoned in the water dungeon here aunt Are you a concubine's child? Yes, I was born to a concubine. You said you came to Didu to kill someone. Wild daughter You must survive No matter how much it costs You must live too. Your Highness What are you looking for? Our Dali Temple But it preserves the Dayin Dynasty Seven hundred years of files Within twenty years All the files with the character &quot;Ji&quot; in them I want to see all How can I find this? So many files What are you standing there for? Find Yes, yes, yes Find it quickly, find it quickly No, go find it in front. Found it, found it Found it Found it Found it Princess Princess Finally found it county Found it Come come come Sun Zhimiao It's Mr. Sun Mr. Sun has outstanding achievements He has been promoted to the position of Shaofuzhong There is no record of the woman's fate. No record, so he must be dead. Dead? How did he die? The Dali Temple Perpetrator Generally not pursued Bring a brazier. Princess That's the only one I tell you It's best to forget what you saw. Otherwise I'll dig out your eyes Princess, spare my life Princess, spare my life Princess, spare my life Princess, spare my life stand up Walk Boss, it's still the same. One hundred rice cakes The princess is really kind Those children lost their parents But I am glad to meet you and His Majesty It is God's greatest kindness This was my brother's idea. I'm just running errands. Today, my brother gave Ying Wuyi The days of opening a private library So he can't come I'll go check it out for him. Your Majesty's private vault was opened because of me Gui Chen still feels a little guilty Don't feel too guilty, Prince. Ying Wuyi was just looking for an excuse. Do you think you are gone? Won't he make things difficult for my brother the emperor? This Leiqi is getting more and more arrogant Princess Boat When I went out this morning Yu Ran asked me to help her with something Why don't you go to Flea Bottom first? I will arrive later Candied Haws Candied Haws Release him yes Let's all go down Eavesdropping on us Cutting off the ears Yes, yes You are not afraid I'll take you hostage again How could that be? The eldest son of the Tianqi Ji family He is also a descendant of a prominent family. How could I do such an ungrateful thing? not to mention I have a gift for you. How do you know? I went to the Dali Temple to check your clan records. Fourteen years ago The emperor declared Tianqu a rebel A family named Ji was also affected This family has been a family of warriors for generations. Although the descendants of later generations are low-key But still by the good people Uncovered the identity of Tianqu The head of the Ji family learned the news in advance He fled with his family in a hurry. But left a concubine Son born to a concubine The mother and son were imprisoned in the Dali Temple prison. The prison of Dali Temple Adults often have no way out. A child How did you survive? Because he has a naturally beautiful mother Stop talking Stop talking You listen to it Don't you want to know the truth of that year? You were still young then Still ignorant I always doubt something. But still not sure Is that right? So I asked Sun Zhimiao's housekeeper to ask him questions. This butler always goes to jail Bring out some beautiful female prisoners from prison Because he said His master has a quirk I just like to play with the female prisoners in prison. Although now in a high position There was no shortage of famous prostitutes throwing themselves at him. But he said those women were not good enough Can't let him do whatever he wants. The housekeeper also said Sun Zhimiao still has a strange habit He plays with every female prisoner Someone will send her one. Stewed chicken thighs Because the woman who satisfied his desires I always ask him to eat. I think this woman is trying to make a living My own son otherwise Such a small boy How did you survive to this day? Sun Zhimiao is here This is my gift to you. stop rush What's going on? Please report to the eunuch Sun Zhimiao's convoy encountered assassins Countless Jinwu Guards were killed or wounded Your Majesty Something bad is happening. Why are you so nervous? The Jinwu Guards ahead reported that Shaofu Sun Zhimiao is on his way back Encountering an unknown assassin What? Who is so bold? How happened to Sun Shiren? Don't know yet The Jinwu Guard finally returned to the palace Now he is seriously injured and fainted. you Who are you? Are you crazy? How dare you rob the Shaofu's official car? Robbing an official car is a death sentence punishable by slow slicing. you you superior Visitors Where are the people? Someone, who, who can save me? Who is coming? Visitors Come Don't come over here, don't come over here I'll give you whatever you want. I'll give you whatever you want. Someone died. Over there, over there Over there Walk Spare me and I'll give you gold I'll give you the official I When you pushed my mother into the water Have you ever forgiven her? Have you spared me? you Are you that woman's son? Have you spared me? stop Himeya Why are you in the imperial capital? Why did you kill people in the street? He deserves to die There must be some misunderstanding. Ji Ye is not a person who kills innocent people You come with me Follow me There is no misunderstanding I'm the one who kills innocent people This eagle finally made it Himeya let's go Yu Ran has also come to the imperial capital Don't you want to see her? Get out of the way! Get out of the way! Get out of the way Get out of the way! Get out of the way! What is going on? Report to your majesty, report to the princess Sun Zhimiao, the Shaofu, was killed in the street What happened to these bricks? Could it be that an assassin killed Lord Sun? Stole the gold ingots? Why is the prince here? Did you witness it yourself? Report to Your Majesty Guichen just happened to pass by here I don't know what happened By Your Majesty's Grace Opening a private treasury to raise military funds Everyone in the country is grateful But how did this gold ingot turn into bricks and stones? Your Majesty This is a bit of a joke I ask Your Majesty for military funds. Not for personal gain I have devoted all my energy to To help His Majesty conquer the north Clear the rebellion for the Bai family Now this is happening How do you want me to march north? That minister can only stay in Tianqi City Slowly raising military funds Don't worry I have burned the files of the Dali Temple Soon Sun Zhimiao will also be burned Forget the past You just need to remember You have a good mother She can do anything for you. But I will remember Remember everything My father often said People with a good memory will have a hard time. It is said that Tianqi City is the center of Kyushu I don't see anything. This shop makes pretty good butter candy wraps. Drink this cup of tea warmly The mood will be better immediately Waiting Take it, come back next time. good good The girl came to the Good Products Shop and wanted to buy Give me half a box of mochi Half box of butterscotch Okay The freshest Okay Come, put it on the girl Girl, your goods Girl, you are so generous. Please walk slowly. Give Good things only available in the imperial capital Aren't you happy now that your revenge has been taken? My father said If there is no power and authority in the world There is no justice That guy surnamed Sun deserves to die But if I wasn't by your side You are on the run now. If you get caught The lightest punishment is beheading. I know all But how can I thank you? Don't thank me I have my purpose in helping you What is the purpose? You are someone my father values. There aren't many people like this He said he would wait for you to become a famous general one day. Then go compete with him for the world That means you are qualified to be his enemy. My father is the one who will dominate Kyushu His enemies Either use it for me Either that or death You want me to be loyal to you? But my family is in Nanhuai If I leave my country My family will suffer. Allegiance? Allegiance is not enough I want you to be my slave Your slave? I am the princess of a country Some warriors want to be my slaves I don't necessarily mean to be lenient. I want to ask you for something Be my slave Help me accomplish three things Do whatever you want until it's done. I don't care about you After it's done, you can go wherever you want. I don't care about you If you never let me Complete these three things I can never leave Maybe one day I'll be in a good mood Or I'm not interested in you anymore Just let you go easily? good My father's Thunderbolt Battalion There are only three hundred people in total But dared to charge at 3,000 cavalrymen The first thing I want you to do is Join the Thunderbolt Camp Everyone in the Thunderbolt Camp will have a mask You are no exception so No one knows that you are the eldest son of the Ji family. From today on you are my slave. Why are you here? I just met Ji Ye How is that possible? Isn't he a soldier at the border? He is in the imperial capital An officer was just killed on the street. The murderer is Himeno Why did he kill that official? I don't know either I asked him I asked him He doesn't tell me So where is he now? This is the arrow of Ying Yu, the princess of Li State. Ji Ye went with her It turns out that the hero who killed Sun Zhimiao My baby daughter. As Sun Zhimiao He will never offend you. Why did you decide to kill someone? He is a sanctimonious beast. Since I was in prison My favorite thing to do is to play with female prisoners Then he's a bitch. Deserve to die That wouldn't be the only reason you killed him, right? He is still Ji Ye's enemy. Who is Ji Ye? It is the ancient monument before the war You said he could become a famous general. Is that the boy you kidnapped? Father Didn't you always teach me Want to subdue someone Do you want to subdue his heart? I beat that kid for half a month He was stunned. He didn't even ask for mercy. I was thinking about how to conquer his heart I know he has an enemy in the capital What about him I came to the imperial capital just to kill this enemy. Sun Zhimiao So I designed it myself Let him take revenge really He became my slave. Okay, I won't pursue this matter. One more thing After the carriage overturned Has anyone exchanged gold ingots? It's all right under my nose, who dares? That's good There you go Dare to enter the Duke's Mansion I respect your courage Come out by yourself I won't necessarily kill you My place is similar to the military camp. No one uses incense. The scent of your body I can't smell it, but I can Come out to me I didn't expect that this princess who left the country He actually has a dog's nose. What's going on? You are from Xia Tang The clothes you are wearing belong to the Baili family. Your status in Xia Tang Kingdom is not low. I am Yu Ran, the princess of Xia Tang State. What dare you do to me? You are actually the daughter of Baili Jinghong I'm not his daughter. If he hadn't begged me I don't want to be a princess. I said Baili Jinghong is so ugly How could it be possible to give birth You have such a beautiful daughter. And the personality is not like You are a county lord Break into my house Are you here to be a scout? What a mess! Your daughter arrested my friend. I'm here to see my friend. Our Duke's Mansion has a dungeon The prisoners are all soldiers who violated military discipline. There are also scouts who sneaked in I admire your courage, little princess. Go find your friend. If his crime is not serious take away But he's not a soldier. Not a Scout What's his name? His name is Ji Ye Himeya I have a person named Ji Ye here But he is my slave. He is no one's slave. He is my slave. You go find If you find me, I'll let you take me away We left the country in the Thunder Camp Every warrior is a slave From the moment they entered the Thunderbolt Camp Then you can have your own name It is called the number of six, five, eight, and nine. If one is killed, another will be replaced. The newcomer inherits the mask of his predecessor The one called Ji Ye I just throw it in among these people Go find it If I find you, I'll take him away. Line up Princess, please have tea No thanks The palace servants said you were resting, so I waited. Her Royal Highness They didn't inform me. I told them not to report it. You have been working hard for days and are very tired. The prince doesn't look well. It's cold recently, I found some fox fur for you Thank you Princess You guys step back first. yes please I heard about what happened today. The prince was at the scene at that time Those assassins didn't hurt you, did they? The prince didn't accompany me to the flea kennel today. I guess he saw something. Would you like to tell me about it? I was just meeting an old friend. I heard that the private treasury They were replaced with bricks What is your majesty going to do? Now the tension between my brother and my aunt is rising. My brother said Sun Zhimiao was recommended by my aunt. Those assassins were all targeting Sun Zhimiao But my aunt said Sun Zhimiao's departure was also approved by his brother. It has nothing to do with her What can the princess think of? Help your majesty? Prince, do you really think I'm smart? But I don't really know everything. What I usually say All from books. This matter I really don't know what's going on Don't think too much, Prince. Let's go relax. Woke up this morning I saw the creeping chrysanthemums blooming by the Taiye Lake. Do you want to go and see it? Those flowers were introduced from Beilu Hanzhou Maybe there are some scenes of the prince's hometown good Yu Ran What's wrong with you? Why are you crying? I went to the Duke of Li's Mansion to look for Ji Ye. Are you crazy? How can you go to the Duke of Li's Mansion alone? I said I wanted to find Jiye Ying Yu showed it to me. Countless people wearing iron masks She said if I could find him in the middle She let me take him away Did you find him? I found it But his eyes changed. He looked at me like a stranger