music (Derek) Welcome to Hope Sabbath School, an in-depth, interactive study of the Word of God. I'm so excited as we continue this series on <i>Themes in the Gospel of John,</i> such a blessing. Today, <i>Fulfilling Old Testament Welcome to Hope Sabbath School, and again I'm excited because one of our team is going to be teaching. Stephanie, great to have you with us today and great to have our team here. Give everybody a wave. We're glad you're here. We've got some remote team members with us we want to welcome today. Faith, great to have you with us today, glad you're here. Mighty, good to have you with us today. And I think Rodney's with us, good to see you, Rodney. And we're also happy that <i>you're</i> here, because you're part of our global family. Just received an email from someone who said, &quot;I raise my hand when you ask a question whenever someone's teaching,&quot; because that's what we call interactive, And we're also happy when you write to us from wherever you are in the world as part of our Hope Sabbath School family. So, Muyonzo, thank you for writing to us from the country of Uganda. Muyonzo writes and says, &quot;I appreciate your in-depth understanding of the Word of God. I am blessed.&quot; Well, I think we would say we learn, too, don't we, Puia, as we study the Word together. &quot;May the Good Lord and Father of us all fill you with plenty of His blessings. Amen.&quot; (Team) Amen. (Derek) We say Amen, too. Thank you, Muyonzo, for writing to us from the country of Uganda. Here's a note from Linda on our Facebook page. I think we have about 180,000 subscribers on our Facebook. You say, &quot;Derek, I'm one of them.&quot; Well, Linda writes and says, &quot;I am so very happy to see Hope Sabbath School on Facebook. As an avid listener to Hope Sabbath School, I encourage everyone who really loves the Lord and wants to know more about Him and His everlasting love to watch Hope Sabbath School!&quot; (Team) Amen! (Derek) Excellent. &quot;Learning more about Jesus through His Word, the Bible, I guarantee you will be inspired and blessed. If there's a desire to love the Lord, to walk in His footsteps, and to one day be with Him in that beautiful home He's gone to prepare for us, accepting Jesus as our Savior and Lord, He promises He will never leave us (Team) Amen. (Derek) Wow, that was a sermon. That was a sermon, thank you, Linda. &quot;I encourage everyone who wants to have a closer walk with Jesus to watch Hope Sabbath School.&quot; (Team) Amen. (Derek) &quot;Be inspired and be blessed.&quot; Well, thank you, Linda, for writing, and you are an evangelist, sharing the good news, and we're so happy you're part of our Hope Sabbath School family. Here is a little hand-written note from the state of Alabama, here in the United States of America, and the donor writes, &quot;Hello, Hope Sabbath School.&quot; (Team) Hello. (Derek) Got the wave. &quot;You have really been a blessing to me and my family. I can't see that well, but I can really hear the Word of God.&quot; (Team) Amen. (Derek) Isn't that a reason why we want to speak clearly so that people get the message. &quot;May God continue to bless you all. In Jesus' name,&quot; and a donation of 100 dollars to bless Hope Sabbath School. Thank you, Donor; you know who you are. Thank you for sharing with us in the mission. And thanks to each one of you. We're at a time of the year when some are saying, &quot;What could I do?&quot; &quot;Where can I lay up some treasure I want to encourage you to partner with us. Just go to our website, hopetv.org/hopess, click on the Donate button. Or get an address there at our website and send us a note. Let us know how you're blessed and how you want to extend that blessing to others. One last note, from Ernest, a Liberian in Norway. That's a long way from home, Joshua, right? &quot;I'm Ernest, originally from Liberia in West Africa, living in Norway. I've been watching Hope Sabbath School for over a decade now. When I moved to Norway, there was no church in my area, so I decided to do my Bible study online. I did that for some time, but I wanted an interactive class.&quot; You know what's happening, don't you? Alright, &quot;I wanted an interactive class where we could see and hear different perspectives. In my search to get such a study, (Derek, Team) &quot;...Hope Sabbath School.&quot; (Derek) &quot;And I've been glued to it since then. I love the testimonies, the Scripture songs, and the...&quot; &quot;...diversity,&quot; take a look at each other. We don't all look the same. People say, &quot;Hope Sabbath School, I like it; we look like the world,&quot; right? (Team) Amen. (Derek) &quot;I like the testimonies, Scripture songs, and diversity. I want to thank Bodil Morris for composing the Scripture songs and making the Bible easier to memorize. I also enjoy the inspiration when you give class members the opportunity to teach.&quot; Well, today, Ernest, is the day. Here is Stephanie; she is one of our team teachers, &quot;Great idea. Thank you for everything you do.&quot; And this person is a monthly donor.&quot; (Team) Praise the Lord. (Derek) Yeah, so you never know where you are, if you're in Norway or Liberia or Botswana, or South Africa, you can be part of the mission.&quot; (Team) Amen. (Derek) Well, I just want to remind you before we sing our song that we have a special gift for you during this series. And it's a collection of Scripture songs from the words of Jesus. My wife has put some of the words of Jesus to music. And I just want to encourage you, one of my favorites is in this collection of six Scripture songs from the words of Jesus. It's in Revelation (four of them from John, two are in Revelation), it says, &quot;Do not be afraid; I am the First and the Last,&quot; you know that text? &quot; I am He who lives, and was dead, and behold, I am alive forevermore.&quot; If you downloaded the six songs just to get that one, you'll be incredibly blessed. So go to our website, hopetv.org/hopess, click on the Free Gift tab, and you'll get directions to download that collection of six <i>Trilogy Scripture Songs</i> from the words of Jesus. We're going to sing our theme song now. It's about Jesus but not the words of Jesus. It's the words of the great prophet John the Baptist when he said, &quot;Behold! The Lamb of God who takes away the sin of the world.&quot; Let's sing it together. music (Derek) And that's what we want to do in our study today, <i>Fulfilling Old Testament Prophecies,</i> is behold the Lamb of God, predicted hundreds of years before He came. Thanks for leading our study, Stephanie. (Stephanie) Alright, let's bow our heads for prayer. Dear heavenly Father, thank You for Your Word. Thank You that we can trust it. We ask for Your Holy Spirit to guide us into Your Word and Your truth today. In the name of Jesus Christ we pray. Amen. (Derek, Team) Amen. (Stephanie) I have a question for us as we begin our study today, and that question is, who is Jesus? Who is Jesus? Rodney? (Rodney) Let me read a text just to answer your question. It is taken from Matthew 1 and verse 16. (Stephanie) Matthew 1 and verse 16, would you like us to go there? (Rodney) Yes, please. (Stephanie) Alright, Matthew, chapter 1 and verse 16. (Rodney) And I'm reading from the New King James Version, it says: So Jesus is the Christ, He's the Son of God, and He was the Messiah. (Stephanie) Amen. Puia. (Puia) For me, I would say Jesus Christ is the Creator and the Savior. (Stephanie) Creator and Savior. Tendi. (Tendi) He is the Lamb of God, the light of the world, the way, the truth and the life. (Stephanie) Jonathan. (Jonathan) He's the image of God, the perfect revelation of His character. (Stephanie) The perfect revelation of His character. Geoffrey. (Geoffrey) Physician, Healer. (Stephanie) Very good. Well, I put it out on social media. I asked the question on social media, and here are some of the responses I received: &quot;The Word made flesh,&quot; &quot;a Preacher and Religious Leader,&quot; &quot;Messiah,&quot; &quot;Divine,&quot; &quot;Son of God.&quot; Let's see what the Bible says. We'll start our study in the book of John, John, chapter 5, verses 17, 20 and 36, and, Zandile, do you have that? Would you start our study today? (Zandile) Sure. (Stephanie) John, chapter 5, verses 17, 20 and 36. (Zandile) Okay, and I'll be reading from the New King James Version, John, chapter 5, verse 17: Verse 20: Verse 36: (Stephanie) Alright, and let's also read John, chapter 10, verse 25. And, Geoffrey, if you would read that for us, John, chapter 10 and verse 25. And I want to ask a question as we're reading these texts: What do these words of Jesus reveal about His close collaboration with the Father in Heaven? Go ahead, Geoffrey. (Geoffrey) Alright, I'll be reading from the New King James Version: (Stephanie) Alright, how do these words of Jesus show His close collaboration with God the Father? Jonathan. (Jonathan) People kept asking Jesus, like, &quot;Who are You?&quot; And, &quot;How do You do such things?&quot; or, &quot;How do You claim such things?&quot; And He repeatedly points back to these works that He was doing that obviously no one else can do. And so He's saying, &quot;The works that I am doing show My relationship to the Father, so pay attention to them.&quot; (Stephanie) Gladys. (Gladys) Jesus said many times, &quot;I don't do anything of My own. Everything I do is what the Father tells Me to do.&quot; So these verses just reveal that They were working in close connection. He was only doing what the Father revealed for Him to do. (Derek) It just hit me from your post, &quot;Who is Jesus?&quot; that if we didn't have the Bible, we would just have to say, &quot;Well, He's Someone that a lot of people talk about, I guess a famous teacher of some kind,&quot; but we wouldn't have any of the testimonies we're hearing today. The Bible is so important, and I know you're going to take us actually to the Bible before even the Incarnation, right? But even there Jesus said, &quot;These are all about Me.&quot; So, I guess what I'm sensing in the answer to, &quot;Who was Jesus?&quot; is I really need the inspired Word of God to answer that question. (Stephanie) That's right. Zandile. (Zandile) I wanted to say that they show us that Jesus and the Father had a shared mission, and they had an intimate relationship together, which was Divine. So whenever He is saying the Father, it shows the divinity of Him. (Stephanie) And Jesus boldly claimed His relationship with God the Father. Let's look at John, chapter 10, looking at verses 37 and 38, and, Mighty, if you would be willing to read that for us, John, chapter 10, verses 37 and 38. We're looking at what that bold claim was of Jesus about His close relationship with God the Father. (Mighty) Sure, so John, chapter 10, verses 37 and 38, I'm reading the King James Version, it says: (Stephanie) What are you hearing there? Thank you, Mighty. What are you hearing? Go ahead, Scott. (Scott) One of the things that we've seen already in the Gospel of John is that Jesus' works are signs, and that's what He is saying here. You know, &quot;Even if you have some questions, look at the works and see that the God the Father is in it.&quot; And if God the Father...if you see the evidence that He is in these works, then you should believe in Jesus. (Stephanie) And His bold claim is what? What is His bold claim? Well, we can go to John, chapter 14. Shall we go to John, chapter 14, and let's look at verses 7 through 13, and then also verse 23. And, Faith, if you would be willing to read that for us, John, chapter 14, and that's verses 7 through 13, and verse 23. (Faith) Yes, I'm reading from the New King James Version, verse 7: And you said verse 20? (Stephanie) 23. (Faith) 23, okay. Verse 23: (Stephanie) What is the bold claim? Thank you, Faith. What is the bold claim? Jonathan. (Jonathan) Here you have this Man that is walking around, and the disciples are watching, other people are watching them, and slowly realizing that this living Person they can reach and touch is God Himself, is the Divine living... And He claims here He is in the Father, the Father is in Him, that, yeah, the Almighty has come to Earth. (Derek) Immanuel - God with us. (Stephanie) They are one. And in John, chapter 10, verse 30, Jesus is very clear; He says, &quot;My Father and I are one,&quot; very clear. Scott and then we'll go to Geoffrey. (Scott) And just to make this explicit, Jesus is saying that He is God. (Stephanie) Geoffrey. (Geoffrey) When we were reading this, and the disciples were witnessing Jesus' deeds and things, it's not just majesty and power but character. It's like, &quot;Let the children come unto Me.&quot; That's the thing, back then, God was dictator, authoritarian, like, &quot;If you don't do what I say, you're going to be punished.&quot; And Jesus is like, &quot;No, I'm trying to heal you; I'm trying to save you.&quot; And that's really what it is, &quot;God is on your side; I'm on your side.&quot; (Stephanie) They both have the same mission, God and the Father. (Derek) And I think it's important, Stephanie, to reiterate that Jesus never says, &quot;I am the Father.&quot; He says, &quot;The Father and I are one. He says, &quot;If you've seen Me,&quot; to use the language Geoffrey was using, &quot;you've seen a full revelation of the character of My Father.&quot; But He doesn't say, &quot;I am the Father,&quot; right, and He will later say, &quot;I will send you another Comforter, the Holy Spirit.&quot; He doesn't ever say, &quot;I am the Holy Spirit.&quot; So there is this mystery of the Godhead, and yet they are so close that they are one. (Stephanie) That's right, Divine, (Derek) We'll study that for eternity, (Stephanie) We will. How do these words that we've just read in John reveal to us, the beginning of John, his inspired declaration about whom Jesus was? Let's look at John, chapter 1, verses 1 and 2, and, Rodney, if you would be prepared to read that for us. And we're looking to see how the verses we just read confirm the declaration that was at the beginning of John. (Rodney) So I'm reading John, chapter 1, verses 1 and 2, and reading from the New King James Version: (Stephanie) Did you want to comment on that, Rodney? (Rodney) It comes back to the question that you were asking earlier, Stephanie, about who is Jesus, and here it is clearly making the connection between the Word, which is representing Jesus in this context, to God Himself, God the Father. So, back to the point that Derek just mentioned, if you notice, you have the Father and you have Jesus, and they are interconnected. There is a popular belief out there that there is just one Entity, but what we are seeing here is that there is a clear depiction between [Jesus] and the Father, and you also see in different aspects in John where Jesus would actually go and get instructions from His Father essentially. Early in the morning, He would commune with His Father for direction for Himself that particular day. (Stephanie) Yes, thank you very much. Did we have another comment? Alright, we're moving on now to... Scott, did I see your hand? (Scott) Yeah, I was just noticing when it says, &quot;The Word was with God, and the Word was God,&quot; if you read that in the original language, there's a little bit of emphasis on the word &quot;God.&quot; Like, &quot;The Word was <i>God,</i> like this is one of the major points that John wants us to get. And it's just right there in that first verse of John. (Stephanie) Right, and the Word, we know, became flesh and dwelt among us, right? So we understand that to be Jesus, just to clarify that. (Derek) And you know, Stephanie, anybody could make that claim, &quot;Well, I'm the Word,&quot; or, &quot;I am...&quot; But, as we've heard earlier, it's the life and the works, the ministry. Again, we need the Bible. And as we see that, we see it's not just the rash claim of a madman claiming to be the Son of God, but it is speaking truth and is evidenced by how He lived and what He did. (Stephanie) That's right. In fact, Jesus...and we're going to move on. Now, we've established He is Divine; is that right? (Team) Yes. (Stephanie) And we're going to move on and look at how Jesus claimed that the Hebrew Scriptures pointed to Him as the Messiah, alright? So, we're going back to John, John, chapter 5 and looking at verses 39 and 40 and then 46. And, Joshua, would you read that for us? (Joshua) Sure, and I'll be reading from the New King James Version, and the Bible says: And verse 46? (Stephanie) That's right. (Stephanie) What was Jesus' claim? (Joshua) That, &quot;The One that you have learned about, the One that you have studied and understood from your ancestors and teachers, all of them were prophesying of Me, which you now see today.&quot; (Stephanie) So He was referring back to Moses and the prophets and saying that they testified of Him. Gladys. (Gladys) The Hebrew children would learn the first five books of the [Bible, the] Torah, and Moses was their biggest prophet. So for Him to claim right there, &quot;You believe in Moses, but he was talking about Me.&quot; He was kind of referring them to, just like Joshua was saying, kind of saying, &quot;All the things you have been studying, you should have been able to recognize Me.&quot; (Stephanie) Very good. Rodney. (Rodney) Stephanie, everyone knew back then, well, the Jews knew, back then, Moses as the deliverer of the Jews, again, back then. And they also associated the changing of the water to blood by Moses who was the deliverer, clearly Moses asked God for that power to be able to do so. But I believe that is why, when you go on over now to John, and John talks about the first miracle of Jesus, it was all about water, turning water into something else, water into wine in that particular case, not blood, but wine. So it should have triggered something in the minds of the Jews to say, &quot;I've heard that story some time ago, which was water turning to something, which is blood; here it is water turning into wine. This must have been the Messiah that Moses was pointing to, the greater Prophet that Moses was pointing to.&quot; (Stephanie) What does that tell us about Jesus' conviction about the Scriptures, the validity of the Scriptures? (Puia) I try to imagine, what if there were no Scriptures? Jesus would show up on the scene and say, &quot;Surprise, I'm here.&quot; But instead, Jesus said, &quot;Well, Moses wrote about Me, and all the prophets wrote about Me.&quot; And Jesus was using the Scripture as a way to confirm, in a way, solidify their faith that He is truly the Messiah. (Stephanie) And, Puia, maybe you can take us there - Jesus also confirmed who He was when He referred back to the Old Testament, the Hebrew Scriptures, in Luke, chapter 24, verse 36, when He spoke to those two disciples after His resurrection on the road to Emmaus. Luke, chapter 24, verse 27. (Puia) And I'll be reading from the New King James Version, Luke 24, verse 27: (Stephanie) I just wish I was walking with Jesus that day, don't You? Where did He start? Maybe Genesis 3:15, &quot;I'm going to put enmity...,&quot; I don't know. But He walked them through the Scriptures and made it clear, who the Hebrew Scriptures were pointing to was Him. He was the Messiah. Alright, Derek. (Derek) I love the testimony of those two disciples. Later they said, &quot;Didn't our hearts burn within us?&quot; So, Gladys talked about the Scriptures, but they saw this amazing revelation, again, not a random claim, but they saw all of these fulfilled in the Jesus they knew and followed. It must have been amazing. (Stephanie) It must have. Alright, Tendi? (Tendi) I just wanted to add that every time Jesus talks about the Scriptures validating who He is or testifying about Him, if you read the text, &quot;Scriptures&quot; and &quot;Me,&quot; &quot;Scriptures&quot; and &quot;Him&quot; are always in capitals, which is emphasis. (Stephanie) Thank you. Jonathan. (Jonathan) I just think it's interesting how God didn't reveal everything all at once; He left little pictures throughout Scriptures. And so, as you go through the Scriptures, as you walk through them, and as the disciples looked afterwards, it's like, &quot;Oh, wow, that revealed Him,&quot; &quot;Oh, that revealed Him.&quot; And so, I think that maybe that's how God works in our lives as well, bit by bit by bit. (Stephanie) Geoffrey. (Geoffrey) Yes, the God that we serve does not just make claims; He reveals evidence, and that's really what this whole great controversy is all about and when Jesus was on Earth, revealing the evidence bit by bit and making us fully convinced in our own minds. (Stephanie) Thank you. Zandile. (Zandile) So, I went back to the five books that Moses wrote to try to find out what really prefigured Jesus that He was referring to when He was saying &quot;starting from Moses.&quot; And I found that in Genesis, Moses says He is the seed in Genesis 3:15. And in Leviticus, He is the Passover Lamb. No, in Exodus He is the Passover Lamb, and in Leviticus He is the sacrificial system, &quot;You all sacrifice; you are familiar with this one, and this pointed to Me, dying on the cross for you.&quot; And in Numbers, He is the bronze serpent. He says to Nicodemus, &quot;If the Son of Man shall be lifted up just like Moses when he lifted up the serpent in the desert, that was Me.&quot; And in Deuteronomy it says &quot;I.&quot; Moses says, &quot;God will raise up a prophet who is like unto me but who will be greater than Me.&quot; So when He is saying Moses, I was like, okay, I really need to see what Moses was saying about the manna, which is Jesus, the bread of life. (Team) Amen! (Stephanie) And as you pointed out... Thank you so much, Zandile. As you pointed out each Bible book that you found, it's prolific; it's throughout the whole Hebrew (Puia) And to add to that, it's not just the books of Moses. If we go through every single book of the Old Testament, the Hebrew Scripture, throughout all the Old Testament time, they were all pointing forward to the coming Messiah. So this is all about Jesus. (Stephanie) Amen. And, of course, later He revealed Himself to the 11 disciples, right? And He repeated something very similar. And maybe we should just go there, Luke, chapter 24, looking at verse 36 and then 44 and 45. And, Gladys, would you read that for us? (Gladys) Sure, I'm reading from the New International Version, Luke, chapter 27, verse 36 and then 44 and 45: Verse 44: (Stephanie) Amen. Jesus recognized that the Hebrew Scriptures pointed to Him as the Messiah, but He's not the only one. His disciples did, too. Let's look at John, chapter 1, verse 45. Jonathan, would you read that for us? (Stephanie) What did Philip say? (Team) The One. (Stephanie) The One who was prophesied, right? Alright, let's go to John, chapter 2 and look at verses 17 and 22, and, Mighty, would you be able to read that for us? John, chapter 2, verses 17 and 22. (Mighty) I'll be reading from the King James Version, and it says: 22: (Stephanie) What can we learn from the fact that both the disciples and Jesus had confidence in the Scriptures? What can we learn for ourselves today? Puia. (Puia) As we just looked at that verse 22 from chapter 2, the disciples believed because they witnessed the fulfillment of what Jesus prophesied. And so, for me, when I read the Scripture and study these prophecies and see it in fulfillment in the history of this world, it brings a great deal of evidence, as Geoffrey pointed out, to believe that this is trustworthy because the predictions and the prophecies are fulfilled. (Stephanie) That's right. (Derek) I think you're making a really important point, because modern liberal scholars will say, &quot;This just related to people back then. There's no one who can tell what's going to happen in the future, Well, God does claim, &quot;I know the end from the beginning,&quot; right, things that have not yet come to pass. But Jesus had confidence in the reliability of those prophecies testifying about Him. And I think, today, our Hope Sabbath School members around the world need to realize that we don't listen to the scoffers and the skeptics who say, &quot;None of that has any significance; it's just something back then.&quot; But holy men of God were moved by the Holy Spirit, so it's actually very exciting, as Zandile was sharing, &quot;I found this in Genesis; I found this in Exodus.&quot; It's an exciting discovery. I know you're going to lead us on some of it, but it's important to know it's not just opinion, that this is the reliable, inspired Word of God. (Stephanie) Indeed, and Derek was bringing out a verse, 2 Peter, chapter 1, verses 19 through 21. Let's read that, and before we read that, Rodney, I see you have a comment, and maybe you can read 2 Peter, chapter 1, verses 19 through 21, after your comment. (Rodney) What I wanted to comment before I read this text is, it is also interesting to note that it is possible for you to know the Scriptures but still [not] believe. So, those leaders back then knew the Scriptures. That's why Jesus made the point, &quot;You know the Scriptures, and in them you think you have eternal life.&quot; And essentially He's saying, &quot;Here I am, the fulfillment of what you have been reading, and you still don't believe.&quot; So there is the aspect of us, when we read the Scriptures, to open our hearts to the leading of the Holy Spirit so that He can lead us to understand who Jesus truly is. So, as we look at 2 Peter 1, verses 19 and 21, is that what you said, (Stephanie) Yes. (Rodney) Alright, 19 and 21, and it says in the New King James Version: Verse 21: (Stephanie) So the Scripture was inspired. I saw a few comments here. Scott? (Scott) We skipped over verse 20 where it says that no prophecy of Scripture comes from someone's own interpretation, and this is the other side of what we talked about, how Jesus had confidence in the Scripture. And we talked about how some people say, &quot;Well, Scripture doesn't matter.&quot; But there are other times when people get very much into their own kind of the Scripture; it has a spiritual meaning. And this is also what we're saying, that, no, Scripture has a plain meaning. We read it, and when the plain meaning is apparent, that's what we should hold to. (Stephanie) We can trust the Word of God. Let's take a look... I'm sorry, our time limits us, so we have to move on to the next section, but let's take a look at some Old Testament prophecies and how we see those fulfilled in the life of Jesus. We'll start in Isaiah, chapter 40, verse 3, and then I'll let you be thinking, some of the other times where we see in the Old Testament those prophecies were fulfilled in the life of Jesus. Isaiah 40, verse 3, and, Geoffrey, if you would read that for us. (Geoffrey) Yes, I'll be reading from the New King James Version: (Stephanie) And where do we see that fulfilled? (Team) In John. (Stephanie) In John. Who fulfilled that? (Team, Stephanie) John the Baptist. (Stephanie) Let's take a look at that, John, chapter 1, verse 23. And, Scott, would you read that for us, John, chapter 1, verse 23. (Scott) Okay, and I'm reading from the English Standard Version, &quot;He,&quot; that's John the Baptist: (Stephanie) So referring back to what? Alright, what are some other examples? Psalms? Go ahead. (Gladys) Yeah, Psalm 118, verse 26. (Stephanie) Psalm 118, verse 26? &quot;Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord&quot;? Yes, please read that for us. Psalm, chapter... (Gladys) 118, verse 26, and it says: (Stephanie) And where do we see that fulfilled? (Gladys) Triumphal Entry. (Stephanie) In the Triumphal Entry, John, chapter 12, right, John, chapter 12, verse 13, and, Rodney, would you be willing to read that for us? John, chapter 12, verse 13. (Rodney) And I'm reading from the New King James Version: (Stephanie) And we need to follow that one up with Zechariah, okay, Zechariah, chapter 9, verse 9, because they are closely connected. Tendi, would you read that for us? (Tendi) Thank you, Stephanie, and I'll be reading Zechariah 9:9 from the New King James Version: (Stephanie) We'll see the fulfillment of this, John, chapter 2, verse 14. (Jonathan) 2 or 12? (Stephanie) I'm sorry, John, chapter 12, thank you, and we'll be looking at verse 14. Jonathan, would you read that for us? (Jonathan) I'll be reading from the English Standard Version: (Stephanie) Do you want to read Please do, okay, so we're looking at John, chapter 12 and now looking at verse 15. (Jonathan) Alright, and it says: (Stephanie) What was the importance of Him coming in that manner? Jesus had not wanted anyone to bring any light to Himself, but now He was riding, Triumphal Entry, riding into Jerusalem on a donkey. What is significant about Him doing that? Puia? (Puia) He was fulfilling the prophecy of Zechariah, and there was no excuse for anyone in Jerusalem who witnessed that scene to deny that Jesus was the Messiah. I mean, He was being welcomed in as the prophecy predicted. It was important for Jesus to do that. (Stephanie) And this was the first day of the week, right, leading up...? He knew, Jesus <i>knew</i> it would take Him to the cross. He knew that. Gladys. (Gladys) Whenever the kings and the army went out to war, whenever they were triumphant, they would come in, riding into the city, and the people would come out and celebrate. So Jesus was fulfilling...He got to the end of His mission, and He was coming. The kings would come on horses, but He chose a humble way to come in. (Stephanie) Yes! (Gladys) Not like you said before, to bring glory to Himself, but to point to the Scriptures, humbly on a colt. (Stephanie) Yes. Derek, you (Derek) She's right, no triumphal entry on a stallion, but exactly the way the prophet had foretold hundreds of years before. (Stephanie) Amen. Jonathan. (Jonathan) That I think goes with this picture. I mean, we have kings coming in, and here He is fulfilling that, but it's different. It's not coming in triumphantly like they wanted Him to, honestly. It was this picture, like, there's something different about this Messiah that's coming; He's humble, (Derek) Riding on... (Jonathan) Riding a donkey. (Stephanie) Where are some other places in the Old Testament Scripture that speak, that point to Jesus, as the Messiah and that were fulfilled in the New Testament in the life of Jesus? Puia. (Puia) There are a few, like, to try to summarize and say that the Bible predicted where He would be born, where He would be raised up, how He would be rejected, and how He would die. All those prophecies were written hundreds and hundreds of years before Jesus ever showed up on the scene. (Stephanie) Yes, nice summary. Thank you. Anyone else? (Gladys) Also it talks exactly about His crucifixion. You know, He will be pierced, He will be rejected, He will be mocked. So every single detail of His life was predicted. (Stephanie) Faith, I see your hand. (Faith) Yes, it also talks about how He would be born, how He would be born through a virgin, and that's exactly how He was born, conceived through the Holy Spirit and born of the virgin Mary. (Derek) Amen. That's important. (Stephanie) Jesus' timing, as we have read through John, we recognize that there were times before that they would have taken Him and killed Him. But the Bible records it was not His time. And I know this is not in our outline, but I'm just thinking of Galatians, Galatians, chapter 4, and I believe it's verses [4 and 5], Galatians, chapter 4 and verses [4 and 5]. Go ahead, Zandile. (Zandile) Okay, and I'll be reading from the New King James Version, it says: (Stephanie) Alright, do you mind reading verse 5 as well? (Zandile) Verse 5: (Stephanie) Jesus was born on time. He went into ministry on time. He was crucified on time. He raised on time. It was all according to prophecy. If we look at Daniel, chapter 9, which we cannot surround in this study today, but Daniel, chapter 9, reveals that Jesus fulfilled the Old Testament prophecies, the prophecies of the Old Testament, to the T - amazing! Now, we could just go home and say, &quot;Hey, we proved that that's Jesus,&quot; right, that Jesus is the Messiah. But my question is, does it make a difference who we believe Jesus is? Does it make a difference? Gladys. (Gladys) Well, John 17:3 says that, &quot;This is eternal life, that they may know You, the only true God, and Jesus Christ whom You have sent.&quot; So knowing God, in Him we find salvation. So, without knowing that He came, He saved, He died for us, there is no point to this life. (Stephanie) Yes. Geoffrey. (Geoffrey) It is very important because without such evidence how can we truly trust Him, and if we can't trust Him, how can He save us? He reaches out, but if we cannot grab His hand in full trust, what's the point? (Stephanie) Jonathan. (Jonathan) Many religions believe in God. And there was a common belief of a god that was similar to the Old Testament, but if that didn't actually come to the revelation of God's character in Christ and the actual fulfillment of the solving of the sin problem and Christ's sacrifice for sin, where would we be? We would be lost without the true hope. (Stephanie) Amen. Scott. (Scott) If we had just one Old Testament Scripture that spoke of Jesus, we might be able to look at it and say, &quot;You know, you could see it that way, or you could see it this way, or maybe there's some coincidence there.&quot; But you start adding more and more and more, and it becomes abundantly clear only one possible interpretation. If you say, &quot;Well, despite all of that, I don't believe that Jesus is God,&quot; basically, if we reject that, we are rejecting all of Scripture. We're rejecting the whole foundation. We have nothing left over but essentially secularism. Like, it all depends on this. You can't pick and choose and say, &quot;I want this part, and I'm going to be skeptical about this, and I'm going to be skeptical about this.&quot; (Stephanie) Scott, what I'm hearing you say, and what I'm hearing all of us saying is that this is vitally important. This has eternal stakes. Whether or not we believe that Jesus is the Messiah, it has eternal results. Derek, did you want to add to that? (Derek) You know, someone said, &quot;I'm not a statistician,&quot; but someone said, &quot;The chances of someone else fulfilling one of those prophecies is possible.&quot; Many other people were born in Bethlehem, right? But, again, the statistical likelihood of fulfilling two or three or four, and then you get up to scores of prophecies, I mean, it is absolutely impossible for that to happen by chance. You either have to, like Scott said, discard the whole Bible or say, &quot;Well, it must have been written after it happened,&quot; or something. But if you read the Bible with the confidence that Jesus had in the Scriptures, you have to come to the conclusion that He is who He claimed to be. And more than that, as you pointed out, to realize that He wants us to have life through His name. (Stephanie) Amen. So here's my next question. Thank you, Derek. My next question is this: There is someone who may be watching us today who is saying, &quot;You're just applying Scripture to Jesus.&quot; (Derek) Trying to make it fit. (Stephanie) Right, &quot;Jesus really wasn't the Messiah.&quot; How would you respond to that person? Remember, eternal destiny at stake. How would you respond to that person? (Derek) I will respond, since I raised the question, and say, slow down and realize our first responsibility is to love that person. And our second responsibility, which I think Jonathan has been emphasizing, is to, ourselves, be a revelation of the immeasurable, unfailing love If we just pounce on, &quot;Well, look at this, and this and this,&quot; I don't think people are persuaded simply by information. (Stephanie) Amen. Thank you very much. (Joshua) I would also say to really confront the person and try to help them to acknowledge the deeper fears that they have. I believe that it takes a deep amount of humility and understanding to be able to reprogram or to acknowledge truth that is new to you, to accept new light into your life. I have a massive amount of respect for anyone out there who has converted from one faith to the Christian faith, because when you...listen, we could get people of every single faith into this room, the most scholarly of each and every religion, but the truth of the matter is, only one of them is honestly and truly right. So you may be passionate about what you believe, you may have believed it all of your life, it could have been your father's, grandfather's, great-grandfather's faith, but the reality is, there is one truth. And so we need to seek that truth, and if we're being real here, when it comes to Jesus, and you hinted at it, too, Derek, is that, are you honestly expecting someone else to come riding on a donkey in 2024? Are you expecting him to come riding on a donkey, to be crucified, to fulfill all of these prophecies. Are we being real here? So, if you can just acknowledge, &quot;Hey, maybe I've been wrong all this time, and I should accept the truth today and turn away from what I've known so that I can have eternal life, so that I can put my family on the right path, so that I can look forward and live according to God's will, walking from this day forward.&quot; (Derek, Team) Amen. (Stephanie) We're going to go to one last comment. Mighty, I see your hand. And after you share your comment, we're going to look at 2 Corinthians 4, verse 4, as we bring it to a close. (Mighty) Joshua said something really resonated a chord in me, and that is, someone seeking the truth. And I think that's the most important factor. You don't need to have an extensive knowledge of the prophecies in the Bible in order to believe Christ. A story comes to mind of when the centurion came to Jesus, and he came with such great faith that [he said to] Jesus, &quot;You just have to speak the word, and my child will be healed.&quot; And Jesus Himself commented, &quot;I have not seen such great faith.&quot; What was different about this person? He was a Gentile who didn't know the Scripture. He heard of Christ, and he believed. He had a love of the truth. I think that's what's very important. And there's a verse I want to read in 2 Thessalonians, chapter 2. (Stephanie) Chapter 2, 2 Thessalonians, chapter 2, and which verses or verse did you want to read, Mighty? (Mighty) I want to look at verses 10 to 12. (Stephanie) Alright. As we close, we'll close on these few verses, alright? (Mighty) I'm reading the King James Version: So I think this is really important, that we have that love of the truth no matter how inconvenient it may be or how it goes against things that we love on this earth. And if we have the love of truth, we'll be able to believe the Word that comes to us plainly. (Derek, Team) Amen. (Stephanie) Thank you very much. Thank you, Mighty. It reminds us of how relevant this is for us today. May God help us not only to be a witness but to also stay connected to Him so that we can be confident in His Word. (Team) Amen. (Derek) Thank you, Stephanie. What a reminder today, wherever you are watching as our Hope Sabbath School family. It's not enough to know the truth. We need to love the truth. And by the way, the truth is not just information. The truth is Jesus. We need to love Him and know Him personally, whom to know is life eternal. Let's pray; Lord God, we've seen much evidence today from the Hebrew Scriptures, inspiration of God provided through the prophets to give us evidence that Jesus is the Christ, the fulfillment of all of the prophecies, all of the hopes of Your people through the ages. We choose to believe and to love the truth as it is in Jesus. In Jesus' name. Amen. (Team) Amen. (Derek) Thanks for joining us What a journey! So much to learn, pointing us to Jesus our Savior. Go out now, be a blessing to those around you. theme music