Tu Yen and Tu Chau welcome everyone! Nice to see everyone again in this video. Tu Yen wishes everyone a happy and happy weekend . Thank you everyone for always caring and encouraging Tu Yen. Tu Yen felt very happy when Dr. Long's mother came to visit and gave her adorable chickens. Furthermore, Tu Yen also received a lot of encouragement and care from his mother . Mr. Long's family loves him and considers him a new member of the family. It has been a long time since Tu Yen felt the warmth from his family. Today is the weekend when Tu Chau is off from school. Since going to school, Tu Chau Very obedient and learned many useful things . This vegetable bed has been harvested, I will destroy it to plant new plants . Hello everyone, I wish everyone a lucky weekend. I will buy ingredients for this dish. Rice noodle rolls to go to Tu Yen's house. I need to buy lettuce, coriander, cucumbers, carrots and pork sausage. Do you still have pork sausage?/ How about you, I'll take this one too/ yes I need to buy more. Can you help me grind a little bit of ground pork ?/ Um, how much is it?/ 50,000 VND, please weigh this noodle cake for me and give me more wood ear mushrooms/ what kind?/ pre-sliced kind, please. Please add this watermelon to me. It's 75,000 VND. Thank you. Come here. I'll pick up vegetables to prepare for lunch. What are you and your mother doing? Are you picking vegetables? I bought food so we can cook dinner this afternoon. Are you picking vegetables to prepare for cooking? Well, you don't have to cook. Today, I bought things to make pho rolls for you and Tu Chau to eat together this afternoon. It's the weekend. Go wash your hands and chop watermelon for Tu Chau to eat. Let me pick up vegetables for you. Go wash your hands. Are you eating jelly? Are the vegetables eaten by worms? Um, thank you, go ahead and chop the watermelon. Mom wipes your runny nose. Tu Chau, do you want to eat watermelon? Let's eat Tu Chau. The weather is changing now. Dress warmly for Tu Chau tonight. She has a runny nose. You too are getting cold. Try to take care of your health too . I'm out of clothes . Tu Chau has been good at school. What can the teacher teach in class? If the vegetables are eaten by worms, can I still eat them? Should I destroy the vegetable bed? These vegetables are not sprayed with pesticides, so the worms will stain all your beautiful clothes. You should eat some more. After eating, the two of us will go make pho rolls. It's a bit late for me to come over today. It's almost lunch time. Go ahead and eat. The vegetables have been eaten by worms . Have you let the chickens out yet? He already knows how to forage for food, after a few days he gets used to it and oh eat the melon rind, Tu Chau, you should eat some more, you eat a lot, so you go pick up the vegetables first, let me pick up these vegetables and I'll pick them up. Come help me and I'll put it away for you. For dinner, I'll probably go to the kitchen to soak the wood ear mushrooms and be afraid they'll run away? Come here, I'll save this leftover and let you borrow a bowl so I can fry eggs in a small bowl. I'll add a little salt and MSG to the eggs and you're done frying them . I'll chop them in a bit, okay? Peel the onions. To stir-fry the meat, I will cut all the ingredients into small and thin pieces to roll easily. Before adding the minced meat to stir-fry, I will fry the onions and spices including: salt, MSG and fish sauce, I will add the cooked meat. Stir-fry the wood ear mushrooms together for nine steps. The last step is to add the green onions and stir well , I'm done, it looks delicious. Let me go and clear the table so I can clean my face. Mommy is cooking. Her face is as dirty as a cat. Come out and see the chicken. I'll call the pigeon. Is it good? Mom, hold it so I can go wash my hands, everyone. Let's eat rice, it looks so delicious. Invite everyone to eat rice with us so I can roll it for you. The rolls are too big. Is it good for you to eat ? Oh, let Tu Chau eat watermelon. It's delicious. It's so delicious. Eat like an adult. You're choking. You can't hold the baby so I can roll it up. Like yesterday, my mother also told me to arrange a time to eat. Let's have a meal with my family. Someday I'll arrange a time for you to bring me and you up. Please roll a piece for Tu Chau Nodding, let me roll one for you like an adult. I don't like to eat children's food. This is like an adult's . I'll take it for you to eat. I think your vegetables are so good. I don't pick them to take to the market. sell? Or when we're done eating, you and I can harvest the fruit and bring it to the market to sell. I see the flowers have grown. Did Tu Chau go to bed? Just one roll , I'm full, please eat more. Tu Chau threw it all out here, then eat more, are you full too? Let's move out and sit down and eat watermelon. This cup is dirty. Are you full yet? But it's almost 14:00 already. Let's rest a bit and then go pick vegetables. After eating the fruits, you and I will wash the dishes and cut the vegetables too . You see how hard it is for women. After cooking and eating, you have to clean up and you also have to worry about making money. Like my mother, she works hard all year round. Be careful of getting your shoes wet . I'll bring a basket to pick vegetables. These are good vegetables. These are 1 bunch of plants, right? ? 3 trees? Is this too big? Are you picking up things to go to school? Is your bag full? So I'll put it in a bag, but in the sun like this, I'll probably send Tu Chau to my mother so you and I can go to Tu Chau market and play with Nhat. I'll bring this old leaf to feed the chickens. Take Tu Chau and go too. Baby, let's send it away so we can go up and play with Nhat soon. I'm leaving the vegetables outside so I can carry them for you. Stand in this cool place and wait for me to get the car. Let's go to the market, everyone. Let me carry Tu Chau for you. What do you do with vegetables? Should I give it to your mother? Mom/ Mom, please let me send Tu Chau so that Tu Yen and I can go to the market to sell vegetables, will you give her vegetables? Thank you, mom, let Tu Chau play here, I'll go now/ Um, I have these vegetable worms, how much are you going to sell for a bunch? 5000 VND, will you only sell this big bundle for 5000 VND? It's cheap, wait a minute, Miss Thuy, please give me 2 bottles of green tea . Do you like raising cats? Can you buy vegetables?/ How much is a bunch?/ 50,000 VND, ma'am, take any bunch of your choice, do you want vegetables?/ How much is a bunch?/ 5,000 VND, please/ sell me 2 bunches of vegetables The grower doesn't have any medicine. I drink water, so every day I go to the market and sit on the street like this, but I don't wear a mask? Next time I go to the market, wear it to avoid dust. Grocery stores and modern medicine stores both sell it. It's very cheap. I wear it to ensure my health. Growing vegetables like this won't make much profit, right? A whole bed of vegetables like that can sell for tens of thousands. How much effort does it take for me to take care of them ? The vegetables are so cheap, I have to sell them for 10,000 VND/bundle to be worth it. Please buy vegetables./ How much does a bunch cost?/ It's only 5,000 VND, sir/ I'll sell you 3 bunches of these vegetables, they're delicious, they're home-grown. Thank you, how much is 1 bunch/ 5,000 VND, please/ I'll give you 2 bunches, so it's almost gone, seller . Give me a bottle of water, boss/ Just go to the cupboard and get it so I can sit down for a bit/ um just sit comfortably ah yeah you shut up with the doctor here and tell the police to arrest me, I'll have to go to re-education camp month. You will know that I still have a bunch of these on hand for you to take home to eat. Who would throw all the plants on the street like this? so dangerous. Just sit here while I clean up, Mr. Long, be careful, are you okay? I'm okay , are you okay? I'm okay, I'm okay . By the way, can you say it again? Congratulations, there's nothing wrong with me, I'm just a little dizzy, that's all. Don't cry anymore, I'm really okay. Don't cry anymore. I'm okay./ When you saw someone hitting me very hard, I I can say that I'm very happy/ I don't know why people beat me, but luckily I only got hurt in the shoulder and not in the head/ I should go call the police, it's okay. I'm so happy to be able to say it again. In misfortune there is luck. Okay, don't cry anymore, I've been waiting for this day for a long time, okay , I'm really okay, it's just a mild illness, okay, don't worry anymore, I'm so happy, I'm okay, just calm down, I don't know who it is. So evil , I don't know who it is anymore. When you called me back, I only saw a masked man. I don't know if I offended anyone and was beaten like that Can you walk? Let me help you / I can walk, I just have a pain in this shoulder but now that I've said it again, I'm very happy and let's go home / Um, I'm okay, just a little sore Okay, but the tree is still there, can you drive? I can walk I can walk I'm fine or go see a doctor, I'm afraid your internal bones are affected I'm really fine, don't you remember I'm a doctor? I only have soft tissue damage/ but I'm really worried. I'll go home tonight and apply medicine for a few days and I'll be fine right away . Look at me, it's really only soft tissue damage, so you can rest assured and then I'll go sit down. Drink some water/ Um, what are you laughing at?/ Since I heard your voice, I've been very happy. Your voice is so cute , I should call Thanh the police. I'm afraid that people will hurt me again, it's okay, I don't think my injury is anything to worry about and I know my body shape or face well enough to report it, but I'm afraid that people will still come to harm me again, so what if I see you tomorrow? Police officer, please drink some water/ um when you come back, remember to take medicine and apply medicine/ um don't worry, just rest assured. Don't worry about me, I'm a doctor so I'll know how to treat the wound. Actually, today I'm very happy that you're able to speak again. Even though it hurts a little, it's worth it. Should I sit here and let you see how my wound looks? I'm okay. No , I'll just sit here and let you see how my wound looks like it's bruised. It's all purple, bro/ Well, it's just soft tissue damage. If I hadn't called you at that time, I wouldn't have been able to dodge it and it would have hit me straight in the head. Fortunately, I'm here. Sit down here and I'll tell my mother this news. I'm sure she'll be very happy. From now on, I can talk to you and don't have to write it down anymore, and I also have I can teach Tu Chau to speak/ Well, I'm happy for you. From now on I can teach Tu Chau to speak, but I don't know why I can say it myself/ I don't know anymore. At that time, I turned around and saw someone holding a stick. beat you, I was so scared and frightened that I tried to make a sound, but I was able to speak again, probably because I was so scared and worried about you because I had also been beaten and abused by people before. I was so scared that I I was also banned from speaking, everything is over and now I can speak again. Now that I'm with you, don't be afraid anymore. There's something I want to tell you/ Um, what's going on? Before, I thought that when I could speak again, I would tell you this/ Um, what seems so mysterious? I want to say that I... I LOVE YOU/ well I love you very much too! I'll come with you later to pick up Tu Chau, come home and bathe the baby early so it won't be cold