Our village alone had 16 wells. Lots of crops and gardens. There was so much rain... that it flooded people's houses. I see a dry city with no water. I can't see a sign of water anywhere. Just wait, as soon as they hear Water is more precious than gold here. They want water most of all. Just water. I won't let him go until he fills my tank, I'm sad this land has no water. Land with a million people, We're dying here without water. I know you've no water. You'll be OK. They've been calling since this morning... for water. This is Nashwa. These people need more water, There are only ten barrels of water. The phone doesn't stop ringing, I have to turn off my phone because of them. I don't have any water, Why don't you have any for us? Believe me, I have no water left, look at them, they didn't get any either. You have some, you're not giving it to us. I didn't get any water. No water for me. You can see, we can't cope... with people's demands. It's not fair. Every day it's the same, Hasaka has no water. There's a crisis. There are a million people waiting, Abu Ali, the orphanage desperately needs water. OK, deliver it to the orphanage quickly. Hurry up. It's been two hours, finish that. Get back as soon as possible. It's my responsibility as water director... to get water for everyone. There's not enough for everyone. My phone never stops. Who do they think I am? Yes. Hi. Hello. It will come, my brother... Poor guy, he's under pressure, That's why he's telling everyone &quot;tomorrow&quot;... Tomorrow he will tell them We don't have water. I don't know when, it's beyond my control. He tells everyone tomorrow OK, God willing, we'll send it to you. Yes, OK. The whole city wants water. Do you have water in your tanker? Do you have water? No. Mahmood's tanker has gone. Is there water in this tanker? No water, all empty. That water's undrinkable. Neither well has water - Not even for a shower? I know all the sources of water in Hasaka. To add to the problem, the wells dug in town... mixed with the sewage system. The town wells are just below ground level There was plenty of water here, Khabour used to be the main People used to rely on drinking water It used to rain here, and there was lots of greenery. There was so much rain that God Almighty deprived us of the rain as well. With this water gone, They dug water wells. There were 32 wells in all. Water from Alouk water station was perfect. We tested it, it was high quality. Alouk water was perfect. Alouk water was pure as blood. It was great for the city's needs. The Hasaka area now relies on tankers. This is a city with no water. My home is on the third floor. Water from Alouk used to come It was very good, but it's gone. This is Hamodi, have you eaten? This is Twana, and Jedi. Come to grandpa, don't cry. We put clothes in the washing machine, We can't finish the wash without water. When you leave clothes in the machine, Sometimes there's water two problems at once. When there's not much to be washed, like here, we've only got two things, to save water, we wouldn't use the washing machine. It's the water tankers. Now we pull up the hose. Hey... start it. It's summer, just going to the market, So water doesn't last, And God Almighty raised the temperature to 50C. We are burning up, we are dying, Mustafa, how much water's left? Only two? We can't leave the tap running. We save every drop of water we can. The deliveries we get... cost us 40 or 50 dollars a month. It costs a whole month's salary. What is your name? What? You always ask for my name and number. You spoke to someone else. Every time, you ask for my details. but don't do anything. You already have my name and number. Shame on you. I have no water, and you're sitting comfortably If I had money, I'd buy water. He shows up here every morning This is a poor area with few services. We haven't had water delivered So by tomorrow you'll run out of water, Yes, they must deliver water tomorrow. Yes. Yes, we are desperate. All this street, to the corner of the school, People with dollars in their pocket, No-one else has access to water. It's unfair for the poor to die of thirst. Why am I the only one speaking up? Talk! Anyone who goes without water People are going to go thirsty all day. We fight over one container of water. It's OK for children to fight, People are ready to kill their neighbour May God help you. You can help us. There are not enough water tankers Our hands are tied, This is the tank. Check if there's more than two Don't take my word for it. It's not enough. This is their daily bath. A jugful each to save water. We don't have water, I wash their faces I can't give them a proper bath. Imagine your life without water in this heat. This is my little girl's shower. This is our daily life. We lost so many Kurdish fighters in the war, This photo is from New Year, 2015 People were dancing, celebrating We lost three family members All three were married with children. This one is my cousin's wife. These two are their daughters. In total 58 people were martyred. We Kurdish people suffered a lot, And now we have no access to water. This is the school used by refugees. We want to go home! Some people can't come down to the tanks, This is my wife, we got married two years ago. This is my daughter, she's a year and a half. Born in this school. My wife is pregnant, Back in 2019, our lives were in danger, so we left our area We will park the tanker close to the building, one of us will pull the hose up. I'm pulling it up now, it's breaking my back. We live under the stairs, me and my family, my mother and sister. This is my room. Daytime, we stay here. At night we sleep outside, it's cooler. No air conditioning, no electricity. It comes on for two hours at midday, Kiss me here. It's a crowded school, very noisy. We all came together, ran away from war. Can you stay when bombs are We picked up what we could We've now been here five years. This has just been bombed Cold drinks... This one is for drinks too. I use a fuel generator to power my freezer. Since the unrest, our electricity Even if it comes on, If there's no power it will melt, Since the unrest, no electricity, The weather today is freezing! We tanker drivers can't ever get You drink from here You sweat it out. This is the heatwave war. The truck's capacity is 40 barrels. It takes time to fill up with only one pump. The water pressure is too low here. Now Alouk water station isn't working any more. We're going to check It's summer and the demand But water levels have dropped Compared to last year, or last month, There's eighty percent less water. Is this the case with some wells, All the wells without exception. Last year was better than this year. This thirty-barrel tanker took twenty minutes to fill, It delays delivery to residents waiting for water. Financial support with fuel would be good. They've given us our ration while our pumps work from 4am until 10pm. This committee does not deal with fuel. The Fuel and Generator committee This situation is a grave concern. Last year, there was some water in the area, but today people in Hasaka are afraid We have to find a quick solution, This has to happen very fast. An alternative must be found. If this water disappears, He and his boss have to get water. Otherwise we'll die of thirst. You brought water two days ago, we drank it, Water does not last long. I need you to do one trip for water for me. There's great pressure on me. The NGO provides for you. I have to pay for my own family, I can't drink when my neighbour is thirsty. Either everyone gets water or I don't need it, It's not up to me, I have to pay for it, My son brings me water, But other people don't have any. For everyone or no one. My mother asks me to bring water. If I get her water, I have to bring it I would if I could, but I can't. Let me tell you frankly that north-east Syria Now Shamoka wells What will we do? The only alternative is Amouda. Our only option is Amouda. The project consists of 20 wells It's really a project to save Hasaka. This is a new well, number nine. I feel sorry for them working in this heat, The heat is stopping us from making progress, affecting the machinery, giving us problems, engine failure. The metal gets very hot, it's not easy to hold. We dug three wells, we didn't get paid, If there's no money by tomorrow, We were supposed to get paid 20 days ago. We have been asking them for two months, I'm not the one who releases the money. If this project isn't finished, it'll be a big problem. What can we do? A disaster. I feel annoyed because Every day we say, &quot;OK, today or tomorrow Our problem is not just digging wells, There's no way to extend the pipes. The cost of the project is 18 million dollars. That cost is small for a country. But for us as a self-administration, According to our tests, the water basin The quality is good, but it's the cost We buy water about once a week. Sometimes the water is good, This is a chlorine tablet We use it to disinfect our water, which well it's from, or whether we don't know if it's clean or dirty. It dissolves in water and kills all bacteria. We've been coming to this hospital for dialysis Each time after kidney dialysis, Apart from my income from this shop I swear to God, I have no children. It's the fourth year the water's been cut off, When we get water from tankers, The tankers are all rusty, Our bodies are full of rust This is water from tankers, see the bottom of the bucket? Look. We have to wait two or three days Don't cry... It's OK, don't cry... He says: 'The man I used to be... What can we do now? May God punish Erdogan, I have been awake since five in the morning. I swear to God, from five in the morning, without eating or drinking. I filled the tanker and I was asleep while I did it. Please don't play with the hose, Let me deal with it. I won't be able to deliver directly to each house. Everyone collect from here. I can't deliver even one barrel, He's ordering us to take water That's enough. We're not giving water to anyone Bring back the hose. We're not filling any containers. No-one's getting a single drop. I swear, I won't give you anything. That's it. So you're depriving the whole school of water? He's not giving you any water, You should be ashamed of yourself, Where did he go? Boys, please, I beg you. I'm responsible for this place. He should give people water, you can't let You should be ashamed of yourself. Be patient, listen for God's sake. They're ganging up on me. We're just trying to help. If you don't respect them My heart is pounding. Of course I'm afraid. You see how people are behaving? People are looking for a fight. I just want to fill my containers with water Bring your truck and fill up, please. If he does anything, I'll call the police. To be honest, we have a lot of problems Some people wanted water That wasn't possible. Getting aggressive is not going to help. We're waiting in line to fill up with water. He wants the hose magically to go to his home! Please have patience, let them fill up. Please don't pull on the hose. Next person in line please. You can see what we go through, It's even worse in other neighbourhoods. We get screamed at, we get into fights. All this, because of water. God help us! Our buildings shook, the electricity went out, we realised the station had been bombed. We couldn't get closer than 50 metres. The gas was escaping, Meanwhile, planes were flying over us, we thought they'd hit us again. The fire continued for two days. The whole operating system of nothing left. The region was in crisis, without electricity, water, bread, or health services. Electricity... isn't good. This is supplied by private generators. The electricity's terrible. It comes on for an hour Electricity's bad, water's bad, food isn't good, everything's bad. They're slowly killing people... by cutting off the water. God bless you. We hope you can come every day. God willing, we'll get it every day. God bless you Uncle. God bless you. Thank you, we hope This is just a drop in the ocean, We delivered one tanker of water, Children, women, everyone's very happy. But the problem is we still have In two days, this neighbourhood Turkey claims they attacked electricity facilities But this is false. This attack was on the civilian population. You can't see everyone as affiliated with the PKK. Turkey wants to put pressure to provoke people, Turkey is using these tactics against us. They use the water situation against us, just like the military campaign. Finally we have something to celebrate... Finally we've finished this well. After working long and hard, we've done it. mixed with pain, heat, exhaustion... Imagine providing water for someone without it. It's life-changing. Of course I'm sad. I see a dry city with no water. I can't see a sign of water anywhere. We are dying here without water. The Kurdish people defeated Many died in the fight, We have made so many sacrifices, But nobody comes to our rescue. All we are asking for is water to drink.