Before the Pacific War, the British and Americans design and fighting ability were vastly superior in arrogance, racism and a general misconception Pearl Harbor, and the ill-fated Force Z. secret weapon. As John Dower said, "... it was in shrouding the Zero in secrecy that made its shocking in December 1941 as the blindness who simply could not conceive of Japan an aircraft of this calibre." This episode In April 1932, the Imperial Japanese Navy the Nakajima A2N. They requested Nakajima and both competitors submitted monoplane Type 91 Parasol Wing fighter, already in Mitsubishi submitted the Mitsubishi 1MF10 , designed by a team led by Jiro Horikoshi. Aeronautical Engineering department of Tokyo Mitsubishi. In 1929 Mitsubishi sent Horikoshi in Germany, the UK and the US. Within five a development team based in Nagoya. His first an all-metal construction with fabric covering with an open cockpit. It sported a Mitsubishi her maiden flight in March of 1933. However, tail broke up during dive testing. The second saw the destruction in June 1934 after failing but ultimately the IJN rejected it because it did In 1937, aircraft from carriers Hosho, Formosa and Kyushu raided the cities of Hankou, heavy losses when intercepted by fighters of the replace their aircraft with an experimental one. low-inverted gull-wing fighter with an open team developed it using aspects of the failed fighter in 1934 that could reach speeds of 6.5 minutes. The first prototype was powered had its first test flight on February 4th of the IJN. A second prototype was improved The A5M was tested at Kagamigahara field by 9 IJN's priority was for high maneuverability Petty Officer Mochizuki Isamu practiced against foreign designs . The A5M outperformed officially under consideration, the urgent leading carrier Kaga to return to Sasebo to grab speed, climb rate and range than all of its fighters intercepted a carrier-borne dive bomber be annihilated by 12 A5M escorts . The A5Ms were commander admitted the IJN pilots were as good A5Ms destroyed 10 Russian I-16Bs without a loss. April of 1938 during an aerial duel over Hankou. G3Ms escorted by 27 A5Ms . The Chinese and Soviets while the Japanese claimed 40 downed enemies . raids began against Chinese cities from Canton to allow her to participate, leading unescorted Soviet fighters well into 1940. The IJN required years of combat experience in China as their On October 5th of 1937, Lt Commander Hideo future Prototype 12 experimental "shisaku" fighter was required to exceed the opponent's fighters the hinterlands of China . There was also pressure had smaller tonnages and dimensions than the as the A5M was being outdone by the I-16, which exceeding 9842 feet within 3.5 minutes, and the a pair of 7.7mm weapons; two 20mm type 99 Model battle tested Type 1 Ku Model 3 Radio ; and 132 lb bombs in an overload condition. The greatest hurdle for Horikoshi's team was regarding aircraft engine design and construction. home-produced twin-row, 14-cylinder, air-cooled 12 engine, the Mitsubishi 875hp Zuisei 13 engine studied the project requirements for three months impossible. Hirokoshi's team had the same reaction Horikoshi knew choosing the Kinsei over the but it was heavier and larger than the other 6614lb aircraft with a larger airframe, wing and produce a 3527lb aircraft with smaller designs power for weight and size. Having chosen the aircraft that would have fully retractable landing a straight taper and narrow tip, replacing horizontal tail designs of other aircraft. be thick enough to accommodate port and starboard appointed Sadahiko Kato to design a retractable on the 20mm cannon mountings, and Yohitoshi The prototype shi-12 was built by a 5-section armament, computing and landing gear for the weight and performance issues. During this which were checked, modified and approved. and Yasyuki Ozeki, a lightweight but higher super duralumin" in 1936 . American historians was a German invention used in constructing Zeppelin was shot down near London, and a Japanese fragment home to be analyzed. Horikoshi eagerly design, saving an estimated 66lb of weight. were that the aircraft lacked armor protection was necessary to make the aircraft lighter, more neither the IJN nor its pilots asked for War would prove the A6M's extreme vulnerability flight was on March 23rd, 1939 , but she could use the Nakajima Sakae Type 12 engine for the results were so promising and the demands from Headquarters introduced preliminary 15 hand-made pre-production prototype A6M2s of the China Air Area Fleet. They would be flown Yokoyama of the Omura Kokutai and 9 led by Lt 1940 was one of transition for the IJN's fighter of the new A6M2s. By August, A6M2 production were still working out glitches, but the urgency Although pronounced fit to fight, finding a policy was to avoid aerial combat. The first with Lt Yokoyama leading 12 A6M2s to escort of Chongqing. The round trip was 1118 miles, to perform long-range actions. It was reported were found, seeing the G3M bombers dropped their were carried out with similar results, until simple trap to lure out the reluctant warriors. Chongqing. The bombing went as usual, and as the aircraft reported that Chinese aircraft were to the southwest. The A6M2 reversed course and the north of the city. 27 aircraft, I-15s and pounced upon from higher altitudes by the A6M2s. destroyed without a single loss for the Japanese. and the 20mm cannon quickly proved to have a pleased with their debut and would summon the for a special commendation ceremony at the Navy However, to conceal the new fighter's performance the A6M had received for the time being, to their victorious fighters and crews as "Sea multiple Chinese cities and airfields across many French Indochina without losing a single A6M . aircraft at Shuanaglin and Taipingssu fields casualty. Petty Officer Eichi Kimura was leading to his A6M crashing. The wreckage and this information was subsequently passed London. The report from the British Air Attache the aircraft were "good by any standard." The the report but failed to make much impression. American Air Intelligence to warn the allies what the outbreak of war in December of 1941, what did the attack on Pearl Harbor, Western Intelligence fighter. The initial response was disbelief, but to front-line units, though few took notice of and Claire Lee Channault submitted numerous Chinese pilots who had survived dueling the the US Army issued an updated edition of the aircraft. The A6M appeared as "Fighter 100". The into the war, would mention the A6M as "the Nagoya The name Zero came about from the A6M's type official designation A6M was broken down "6" being the 6th model built for the its manufacturer. The Japanese colloquially quickly feared during the early half of the climb at steeper angles and stay in the provided air supremacy for the Japanese campaign would cost Japan only 5 Zeros. The were overwhelmed by the Zero fighter and easily the raid on Darwin, 54 Zeros escorted and 108 Zeros escorted and bombed Pearl Harbor and 84 the Philippines. During the battles of Coral Sea superiority, quickly turning her into a legend. developed the "Thach Weave" to give American F4F the Zero. The first intact Zero to be captured crash-landed in July of 1942 on Akutan Island. the US Navy's Bureau of Aeronautics and the surpass the zero, the F6F Hellcat . While the when aircraft like the Grumman F6F Hellcat theater, the Zero struggled to compete. The Zero over 10,000 variants produced and in the hands of We have already made videos on F2A and F4F videos on the weapons of the Pacific War, so consider liking, subscribing, commenting, have started releasing weekly patron and youtube ranks via the link in the description or button learn about our schedule, get early access and much more. This is the Kings and Generals