- Hey everyone, it's Natasha and today, I'm gonna teach you how to make a whole chicken in the Instant Pot. I am so excited about the juiciest chicken, it's quick to make, easy, and it's not just the chicken. Wait until you see what so let's get started. (drums on table) We start with one whole chicken. If your chicken has a make sure you remove it. Pat dry the chicken all Place the chicken from the drumstick side, loosen the skin from the chicken breast using Be careful not to tear the fill that space with a For that butter rub, you'll need two teaspoons of salt, a quarter teaspoon of black pepper, one one teaspoon of garlic powder, and half a teaspoon of paprika. Next, remove the leaves from one sprig of fresh rosemary and The easiest way to strip the leaves off is to grab hold of the end in the opposite direction. Mince the fresh herbs to your seasoning mix. Now pour in eight tablespoons and add one tablespoon of Stir that all together to combine and set it aside. This flavored butter and gravy taste incredible. I'm using a six-quart to the one I have in the notes. Place a rack into the inner pot, and add one cup of I'll link to these handy gloves as well, I love keeping a stash Place the chicken onto the Stuff the cavity with half of a lemon, and it's totally okay to use the half that you've squeezed for juice already, and four garlic cloves. Give the butter mixture a quick stir, then pour half of it under gently to evenly distribute it. Pour the remaining half of the butter evenly all over the chicken. Cover with the lid and set the valve to the sealing position. Cook on high pressure for 24 minutes, followed by a 15-minute (upbeat music) After the 15-minute turn the valve to the any remaining pressure. Carefully remove the and allow any excess juices Next, transfer the whole rimmed baking sheet and with salt, pepper, and a The little bit of extra and they help to develop Lastly, place the chicken of the oven and broil at for about three to five minutes or until you've reached your desired color. You can also put it in the air fryer for about five minutes. To make the easy chicken gravy, pour all of your pan through a sieve. For a really smooth of any solid pieces that then use a ladle or a any excess oil that floats to the top. We're gonna use the same Instant Pot and there's no need to on medium heat, and add three tablespoons of unsalted butter. Once the butter is melted, of all-purpose flour, for a minute until it's golden. Next, add the remaining about two cups after Whisk those together until and thickened, then and transfer it to a serving dish. And make sure to keep it really only needs no Take it out of the oven as All right, all that's left is to put this on a platter and serve it And the chicken gets so a little careful with it (laughs). This is never dry 'cause Okay, and I love to garnish or you can use sprigs of thyme so it makes sense (chuckles). Looks so pretty. Okay, now we're gonna cut and I wanna show you So here we go. Oh, yum, and it is so juicy, Take a look inside. Yeah (laughs). Okay. And this is so delicious, when you pair it with mashed potatoes with chicken, yum, yum. Oh my goodness, yum. And then that crisp, in the oven is mm, delicious. Okay, and then, just pour the gravy over. It doesn't get any better than this. Ah, juicy chicken, and hot gravy. (laughs) Oh, I cannot wait. And my kids love this because they love anything with gravy, and it Okay, here we go, going Oh, that's a big bite. (laughs) All right, we can handle that. Mm (laughs), mm, mm. Mm-mm-mm, mm, mm. This is literally melt and making the gravy is brilliant because it holds all those amazing flavors from the chicken. The rosemary and thyme and then also that little and vibrant, and it because the chicken is Great over mashed whatever you wanna serve I don't know, this tastes better than Thanksgiving turkey, Am I in trouble? (laughs) It is so delicious, the rest of this. I'm just gonna go ahead If you guys enjoyed this and want more delicious, easy family weeknight meals, check out some of our all-time and right down there and before you go, make sure you click below to subscribe, and when you do, click so you get notifications every We'll see you in our next video.