In a 1972 paper, geneticist Susumu Ohno, an wrote: "The earth is strewn with fossil that our genome too is filled with the remains And while this was decades before we sequenced Buried inside your genome right now are molecular they no longer work. One of these can be found on your 8th chromosome. It's called GULOP and it used primate ancestors. It gave them the ability to make their own But that all ended around 61 million years when something happened in the DNA of one That gene effectively died, becoming a 'pseudogene,' And this was a key moment for our lineage. Now, our more distant primate cousins on the the lemurs, can still make their own vitamin Their branch split off from ours before GULOP But ever since the death of GULOP, our side monkeys, and apes - have had to get vitamin Without that vitamin in our diets, we risk And GULOP isn't the only dead gene we carry There are thousands of them, and we've only But one thing is already clear: we're not over the course of our evolution, but also Over 90% of our genome doesn't actually And embedded in all this non-coding DNA, like -- sequences that were once active, but are We've now found around 20,000 of them in This rivals the number of genes we have that And we know where a lot of these pseudogenes In many cases, they're the result of ancient This happens when a gene is duplicated into dies, leaving one functional copy behind. Others, like GULOP, are 'unitary' pseudogenes and when it died there was no back-up copy, So how do genes die? Well, the short answer is mutations. Mutations occur randomly in our DNA all the They're totally normal and a source of new And variation is the raw material for evolution. Occasionally, mutations occur at particular prevents the instructions it carries from And that's what happened to GULOP, around A mutation inactivated it, turning off its of making vitamin C. Without that enzyme, our ancestors couldn't And this is part of the bigger picture of If a mutation that inactivates a gene reduces survive and reproduce, natural selection will that carry the mutation. This process keeps useful genes free of mutations. But if the loss of the gene doesn't reduce a population. This can happen either through a random process Eventually, the mutated gene can become 'fixed,' left in a species' gene pool. In the case of GULOP, we don't know if its reduce it. When it became inactive, our early ancestors C from eating fruit. This resource was becoming more abundant as and fruiting plants continued to diversify. It's been suggested that the loss of their primates, because they could get it easily So gene death isn't necessarily bad. It creates opportunities for evolution and and ecological context in which it happens. And GULOP definitely wasn't our last broken About 44 million years later, in the early lost another gene: UoX This gene coded for a protein called uricase from bacteria to mammals. Apes like us are the odd exception. The function of the uricase enzyme is to break When UoX became a pseudogene - around 17 million lost this enzyme. Now, all that's left of UoX is its molecular And, like GULOP, its loss has some consequences For example, humans and the other living apes They're between 3 and 10 times higher than uricases and can break the acid down effectively. Which means that we can get diseases like forms crystals, gets deposited in our joints, So how and why did we lose such a useful gene? To figure it out, in 2014 a team of researchers using a technique called 'ancestral sequence By comparing both the gene and protein sequences today, they were able to reverse-engineer and proteins would have been at different Then - and brace yourself because this sounds these ancient uricase proteins, by building They then performed a series of experiments worked. And they found that the oldest uricase protein years - was really good at processing uric But uricases from around 40 million years picked up mutations that made them less efficient. And over the next 20 million years, primate Epochs were even less efficient. So the UoX gene becoming inactivated around final step in a series of mutations stretching Why uricase gradually stopped working over But, there is evidence to suggest that the our ancestors an evolutionary advantage. You see, UoX's death happened at a time For our fruit-eating ape ancestors, this was It meant that fruit was no longer available summer, but very little in winter. Enter uric acid. One of the few advantages of having a lot and accumulation of fat from fructose - a And it's been hypothesized that having less made our ape ancestors better able to store and to survive off those fat stores during To test this idea, the researchers inserted cells in the lab. As expected, they found when the cells were the sugar into fat, compared to normal human So there's evidence that the loss of the UoX given our lineage a survival advantage. Sometimes in genetics, less is more. And if you've noticed that all of the genes food, well, there's a good reason for that. Food availability is one of the most important things face. So shifts in our diets have played a huge We see this again in our taste receptors - a allow us to perceive different tastes. Their birth and death is tightly linked to In the genomes of carnivores with all-meat taste receptor genes have died, becoming pseudogenes. As omnivores, we humans have a relatively We can pick up on all of the major taste groups bitter. And it's in that group of bitter taste receptors Right now, our DNA contains 25 working bitter Each of them is thought to be associated with And for millions of years, they've helped eat, and which might be toxic. But we've also lost quite a few. We carry 11 dead bitter taste receptor pseudogenes. And two of them died relatively recently in ancestor with chimpanzees and bonobos. And we know that these two genes died before around 500,000-600,000 Their genomes also contain the same two pseudogenes, So these genes very likely died in a common were inherited by all three groups. So what happened to these two bitter taste Well, the last few million years of our evolution We started eating more meat and eventually plant foods less toxic. Our cultural knowledge of food sources became able to transmit this information through And all of these changes might have meant bitter plant compounds became less and less When these two bitter taste receptor genes pressure to save them. And their pseudogenes became molecular fossils Evolutionary genomics is still a young science, dead genes we carry with us will only grow But it's already clear that the genome is an organism. It's also a historical record, a molecular our evolutionary legacy in the form of the Our taste receptors have helped us humans us figure out the toxicity of plants, but To find out, watch our episode, "How We Thanks to this month's Eontologists for Jake Hart, Annie &amp; Eric Higgins, John Davison Become an Eonite at patreon.com/eons to get read. Like this one from Stephen O'Leary: &quot;Fossilization That's pretty cute And as always thank you for joining me in Subscribe at youtube.com/eons for more evolutionary