As always, today is an interesting and useful video. I have long wanted to bring this idea to life, which is necessary for any homemade product . Making a machine tool or homemade product will become easier with your own hands and simple tools that every mother-in-law (my wife's mother) is the main supplier of spare parts - lawn mowers, heaters, pumps and much more. Gold, not mother-in-law! The pumping station, and this is the second one, worked for some time without water, because of this, parts of the pump melted. It is almost impossible to buy spare parts from us, it is easier to buy a new one than to sit without water for several weeks. and it is also profitable for me, I have spare parts)) There are never many spare parts ...! Hello, friends! It is necessary to remove the pressure switch and make the wiring directly to the engine. The capacitor is 10 microfarads 450 volts. By the way, my homemade belt sander is made from the first pumping station who follows the channel must have seen the video of its manufacture. I think it turned out great and easy to make. Now on the street Yes, yes, yes - stew)) By the way, the stew itself, not really ... But I need a container from it, the contents will go into pasta. I made gas burners last year according to the old reference book of the USSR. There is also a video on the channel with all the calculations and drawings. They are used with furnaces and forges, and are designed for them. The burners turned out great, I made one rotary and one straight, it is more convenient for me to turn, and I use it all the time. The horn is made of 30 mm vermiculite plate, it is a thermal insulator, it is very light, but a little fragile... For that, it is light, easy to work with and holds heat well. I will soon restore it, it stands on the street, and storage conditions affect it. An impromptu crucible, this is an ordinary pipe, a cut from the screw piles of the foundation . The bottom is welded and rebar trims are welded as handles. As a flux - soda and salt in proportions of 1: 1, it is advised on the Internet)) I try it for the first time, before that I did not use the flux at all. Let's look at the result later. I pour it into molds, the path will cool down a bit. Guys, things are slowly moving with the construction of the workshop, the roof is already covered, windows and a door have been ordered. I look forward to them. I already have so many cool ideas for the workshop. This is a small separate male country. The wife is still sure that this is her insulated arbor ...)) Finding the center on the blanks is quite simple. It is necessary to draw two parallel chords of equal length. Connect the ends of the chords diagonally. The point where they intersect will be the center. The second way. Draw a chord. A compass draws two intersecting circles. A line is drawn through the intersection points of the circles. And two more intersecting circles, the centers of which are the points of intersection of the line with the circle. A line is also drawn at the intersection points of the circles. The center is the intersection of two lines. Sometimes in the comments you write that the speed is high on my machine. I partly agree. Advertisement Integration ~1 minute The shaft is already threaded and therefore I am cutting the thread in the workpiece. For convenience, I decided to fix the engine better and focus. I don't remember exactly what it is called in the language of turners, but I think it's not so important. I sharpened an old file as a cutter. The shavings will also be recycled. I collect it even from metal, I will definitely show you in the near future for what. And you will also begin to collect it, I'm almost sure. I will process the second blank in the same way, it is for the drive shaft of the belt grinder, but already behind the scenes. Not to drag out the video. Guys, as always If you liked it - Like, Subscribe, Bell! Not to miss interesting videos. We will meet you in the comments, I will definitely read them and try to answer as much as possible. Thank you for them. Everything turned out just great! From unnecessary garbage, the necessary, high-quality thing turned out. This method, in my opinion, is the place to be if there is no access to a lathe. Everything turned out accurately, neatly and with simple hand tools. Friends! Health and Peace - to you and your loved ones. Thank you so much for watching this video, ratings and comments. See you friends.