LUTHER: God is our refuge in distress. Our shield of hope through every care. Our shepherd watching us to bless and therefore Although the mountains shake and hills their yet still will we not fear for thou o God COOPER: Martin Luther. To most Protestants and Evangelicals, a legendary of the papacy. To Catholics, a divisive heretic who denied The reality, of course, is more complex. Martin Luther was a great man -- but he was faults that you and I are subject to. He was also an emotional man, a passionate He experienced everything from the most luminous darkest sorrows. Verbally, he could be vicious toward his enemies For example, against colleagues who disagreed the Lord's Supper, and that's before we even years. And yet, this was the man, this was the man He restored the Word of God, the Bible, to He reestablished the importance of family, but most significantly of all, he recovered the eyes of God comes by grace alone through Luther was, and still is, controversial, but We need to get a sense of the world in which We need to grasp the cultural climate and to see Luther for who he really was and to means for us. Once you begin to see what Luther did five all around you today. Martin Luther is popularly credited as the but the real story is more nuanced. Luther was a huge driving force, of course, long before he was born. By the time Luther came of age, organized earliest days. The church had abandoned its prophetic voice in God's wisdom, power and strength, but in The finished work of Jesus Christ at Calvary sacrificing the Lord anew whenever the congregation The people's hope was not in the righteousness to meet the commands of God. Deceivers and swindlers wandered the streets as the gold in the casket rings, the rescued The Bible written by and to the common man known only to an elite few. NICHOLS: This was a difficult age. In fact, the Reformation motto &quot;post tenebras just before the Reformation, this was a time One of the ways I think we can see this darkness This is The Haywain Triptych. It was painted by Hieronymus Bosch. Bosch was a painter from the Netherlands. He died in 1516, and one of his last paintings The Triptych has three panels, and on the bottom of that panel, we have the fall and On the far panel, Bosch depicts judgment, he depicts the moment. And at the center is this large oversized and the Pope and the bishops and they have Then you sort of see the peasants and the tones and they're far off, it's as if they're In front of it there's a monk and he's sitting tended to by nuns and he has everything he Then on top of the hay bale there's a solitary angel is looking to Christ, and there at the looking down and it is Christ in all that see Him. They're not even looking up. It's not only that Christ was obscured at the church's life. It's also that the people didn't even know Christ was so obscured they thought their somehow satisfy that and they don't even see LAWSON: The priesthood had become very corrupt, literally the blind leaders of the blind, of Christ, so the church of Rome was in the COOPER: The consolidation of power, haters Was this what Christ intended for his church? And was it really true that Jesus' sacrificial to secure salvation? KOLB: But the world in which Martin Luther which going to Mass was really the heart of It was a little scary for most medieval Christians the Lord, but in this magic moment when the to our village, happened once in the week, grace. The longer Luther lived with that system, put the burden on him. His instructors at the university had taught would give him the grace that would enable God and made his way to heaven. And so it was as he turned ever more deeply religion is not a religion primarily of ritual, don't go to God first, but God comes to us and who spoke the world into existence in in Christ into existence through the forgiveness TRUEMAN: Well, the practice of selling indulgences ties together its understanding of purgatory, people go after they die in order to be purged When that doctrine was tied together with of the better terms, heavenly bank account have been deposited. What the church allowed for was the transfer if you like, to the accounts of other people the provision of a certificate, a paper certificate So by the time we get to the beginning of It's a way of the church earning money and Luther perceived that this had led people way into heaven, that for a cash transaction that bypassed the quality of the heart, bypassed COOPER: Indulgences represented hope for those was a false hope, it was a lie designed to It built up cathedrals, but it was tearing and Europe. But there was yet another sin, a greater sin The Scriptures themselves had been all but was the greatest tragedy of all. LAWSON: Well, every great movement in church of Scripture. The Reformation was a back to the Bible movement But preceding the Reformation, there were used, that would be John Wycliffe and John John Wycliffe was an Oxford professor, the lived in the 14th century, and he came back of his life he actually translated the Bible It was a step in the right direction. It would not be later until William Tyndale and Hebrew language, but John Wycliffe was He was the first to appear on the horizon the authority, the infallibility of the written John Huss was across the English channel in century, and he as a student at the University works as a way of earning money. That was his initial exposure to the works between Oxford and the University of Prague in Europe and Huss actually devoured the teaching less, than the straightforward interpretation And so Huss was raised up in the city of Prague and really was the leading pre-Reformer who Luther to come in the following century. TRUEMAN: There is a legend that John Huss you burn a goose, but a hundred years from Apparently, the word &quot;Huss&quot; in Czech means Luther knew of this legend and liked to think arising almost exactly a hundred years after And that is why today in many Lutheran churches in the shape of a swan. Luther was the swan who fulfilled the prophecy SPROUL: Luther's study in Scripture paved understanding, of how the Bible is to be interpreted. But one of the big issues was his view of Now let me just take a second to quote the where we have a statement in there where it is the council, &quot;decrees that no one relying and morals pertaining to the edification of in accordance with his own conceptions presume holy mother church to whom it belongs to judge and holds.&quot; Now what Luther advocated was called private of this statement. He didn't believe that any individual had With the privilege of interpreting the Bible of interpreting it accurately. But what he challenged was the unique sense alone had the right to interpret the Scripture, anybody who presumes to interpret the Scripture Church. So those are just a few of the issues that church in history. COOPER: Long before Luther was born, the fires were already men and women in the church who a church built upon earthly power and ritual what the church fathers wanted, and it wasn't The church needed to be renewed, it needed The light of the gospel had almost been extinguished When many of us think of Martin Luther we that he nailed to the door of All Saints' corruption he saw in the church. Or, we think of that famous, if disputed phrase, So help me God.&quot; Or perhaps, we think of the Luther insult &quot;You stink like devilish filth flung into It's pretty good. We know of him, but do we really know him? Do we really understand what made him tick? Well for that, we need to head to Eisleben Luder. Born in Eisleben on November the 10th 1483, home where he was raised under the strict His father, a stern and hard-working miner the mines. He wanted him to become a lawyer, so Martin of Erfurt, earning his bachelor's and master's Luther was an exceptional student with a formidable in July 1505, his studies were cut short when Lightning struck nearby, throwing him to the Fearing for his life and for his eternal salvation of miners, &quot;Help me! And I will become a monk!&quot; Luther was spared and so the trajectory of Within weeks and much to his father's dismay, the Augustinians. KOLB: The Augustinian hermits were one of 13th century. They were gathered in cloisters and houses there restricted or set off from the world, to hear confessions, to aid parish pastors. And so it was that world in which Luther came, monastery so that the brothers could go out But his superiors recognized very quickly He could preach well, and he was very quickly He mastered Scripture very early in his monastic and so he was the perfect preacher for a preaching TRUEMAN: By all accounts Luther's days as say, angst ridden to a significant degree. When he officiated at his first Mass, when first Mass he had some kind of break down Possibly because his father was there and calling. Possibly because he was having to make God how could he an unrighteous man stand before How could he make God with his hands and touch And this is a theme throughout Luther's life, breakthrough to justification by grace through Luther's burning concern was, &quot;How can I as God?&quot; And there are tales of him being in the confessional sin, desperately seeking and desperately craving had forgiven him his sin. So Luther's early days as a monk were marked God might do to him because of his unrighteousness. COOPER: During his time as a monk Luther seemed law far beyond the burden felt by his peers. He was desperate to know that his righteousness LUTHER: When I was a monk, I wearied myself sacrifice. I earnestly thought to require righteousness I tortured myself with prayer, fasting, vigils The frost alone might have killed me. COOPER: For more than a decade as Luther tortured He made his confessions, but they fell on He was even told not to bother doing it again Well, this blase attitude toward personal only deepened when he travelled to Rome as SPROUL: And in 1510, he was selected, along to the holy city of Rome which had enormous viewpoint, so he was very excited to be selected And when he went there he was extremely disillusioned He saw obvious evident corruption among the and all kinds of immorality, saw them selling speed so that they could say as many Masses But the big experience came when he visited where from the tradition was that when the steps were still there from where Jesus had they dismantled those sacred steps and brought church, and the Lateran Church there in Rome. And so this was a huge site of pilgrimage you went up the stairs, I don't know how many the rosary while you were going that had an made that little journey on his knees up to he got to the top of the stairs he stood up COOPER: Returning from Rome, Luther poured in his understanding of the Scriptures, he them with the teachings of the Roman Catholic He burned with desire to understand the Bible within it. Throughout the early to mid-1510's Luther's He saw God as a tyrant demanding something give: righteousness, perfection. Luther did not love this God. He did not fear him; he hated him. LUTHER: But I, blameless monk that I was, extremely troubled conscience. I couldn't be sure that God was appeased by I did not love, no, rather, I hated the just In silence, if I did not blaspheme, then certainly I said, &quot;Isn't it enough that we miserable original sin are oppressed by every kind of Why does God heap sorrow upon sorrow through us with His justice and His wrath?&quot; This was how I was raging with wild and disturbed COOPER: This inner turmoil went on for years He began to see the words of Romans chapter be understood. That we are justified by faith alone, not long began suddenly to burn within him. LUTHER: At last by the mercy of God meditating the words. There I began to understand that the righteousness by a gift of God, namely by faith and this The righteousness of God is revealed by the with which merciful God justifies us by faith. As it is written, &quot;He who through faith is Here I felt that I was altogether born again gates. COOPER: Was this a born-again experience as We don't know, nor do we know exactly when it was after the event which we most closely Theses to the door of the Wittenberg Castle Little did Luther realize that this call to world. SPROUL: The Ninety-five Theses were written because when he attached them to the church to the church, that was the bulletin board were given to the faculty for academic discussions And so what Luther was proposing was a serious of the indulgence system. What happened without Luther's permission the Ninety-five Theses, translated them into and within two weeks they were in every village huge uproar took place. Karl Barth makes the observation that Luther like a blind man climbing a tower in the church balance and he reached out to grab something his blindness was the rope for the church by the ringing of the bells. LAWSON: The Ninety-five Theses was really by the Roman Catholic Church to raise money was selling people a totally false hope that released from purgatory through the purchase And when this message came to Martin Luther, Saxony and selling these indulgences, he was And he could smell a rat from a long ways And so, Martin Luther wrote out ninety-five He had no idea that he was striking the match unknown to Luther, a Reformation was being He simply wanted to have this discussion, general area and Martin Luther was now riding He was riding a wave of controversy that would of the initial phase of the Reformation. KOLB: There were four printers who recognized They printed them and the world's not been NICHOLS: In many ways it was the beginnings era into the modern age. We speak of the Renaissance and we credit to that singular moment of the posting of church history, this changed world history GODFREY: And what was particularly radical of the Pope, who had extended the indulgences was a practice less than fifty years old in Luther, who had been really quite an unknown a famous figure and people began to talk about on certain issues and that the church might COOPER: Luther's fame spread at a remarkable His courage in defying the men in power resonated They took his works and reproduced them at who was unfamiliar with Luther's teaching. Before long, his works spread throughout the Vatican itself. NICHOLS: My favorite response from the Catholic Theses was Pope Leo the Tenth's first response. When a copy of the theses finally made its quips, &quot;Ah, the ramblings of a drunken German He'll think differently when he sobers up.&quot; I think Leo the Tenth significantly underestimated and on the one hand, Luther never sobered This was only the beginning of the challenge And from the posting of the Ninety-five Theses singular movement, and it ended with that And we need to remember what this means, this the church meant that you are outside of salvation. The church at this time believed that it held Literally, when Christ said to Peter, &quot;You my church.&quot; That was taken as Christ's giving of the keys And then as Roman doctrine understands it was now the holder of the keys and that decision of saying, &quot;We are condemning you, we are That was the result of the Ninety-five Theses. That's how the church fundamentally responded How did Luther respond? &quot;Well, you're not the true church. You've abandoned your calling as the church. The true church is the church that preaches and the true church is the church that exercises Word of God.&quot; COOPER: In November 1518, Luther was summoned defend his theses. Three days of debate proved fruitless. Cardinal Thomas Cajetan continued to defend Luther refused to recant and returned to Wittenberg. But the controversy didn't even there. Luther continued to write, publish and teach, would become the foundation for the Reformation. Papal commissions studied his works and declared Pope Leo the Tenth declared him a heretic And then, at the Diet of Worms, Luther was GODFREY: The Diet of Worms is a very important of the Reformation. And the Diet, of course, was a regular meeting From the life of the Holy Roman Empire the But at this particular Diet meeting in the on the docket was the issue of Martin Luther KOLB: Rome had to have Luther recant because of this medieval system. By 1521, when he was actually excommunicated, medieval piety was based and said it is God's of the rituals of the church through the priest, to God. So that was a major challenge to the entire And equally important, or perhaps more important, He had said that the Pope rules Western Christendom agreement. GODFREY: So Luther arrives in the city and There's the emperor himself of course, there sorts of ecclesiastical princes, there's the Frederick, of course, is there, and Luther What set the meeting off to a somewhat bad larger crowds and larger cheering when he This somewhat annoyed the emperor. But on the day of the first meeting they gathered small room because after all it was a very in the presence of the emperor. And Luther was put on trial because the church then that there should be civil penalties heresy. And Luther went into it with a measure of was when he walked into the audience chamber the door muttered to him, &quot;To the flames, So everybody knew what was at stake here. He enters in and there are his books, a number the representative of the emperor points to And Luther says, &quot;Yes, they are.&quot; And he says, &quot;Will you now recant of the errors Well, Luther was distressed because he really defending his views, so trying to buy time the errors in my books that I'm to recant Well, they were ready for that, they knew into a debate with him what were and what of theology. You know what your errors are, and you must And Luther then made the less famous speech to think it over?&quot; And they granted him time to do that. Now, why did he want that time? Well, I think it's a very important window He knew how serious this was and he knew as God would have to answer the question, &quot;Are And for medieval men this was a very troubling They were not rugged individualists. They really believed in community. And Luther wrestled in prayer with that question, And what his conclusion was, &quot;I am not doing this because I'm driven to it by the Word I feel this is the only way I can read the Word of God.&quot; COOPER: He was put under enormous pressure, LUTHER: &quot;Unless I am convinced by the testimony for I can believe neither Pope nor councils repeatedly and contradicted themselves. I consider myself convicted by the testimony My conscience is captive to the Word of God. This I cannot and will not recant because safe nor sound. God help me. Amen.&quot; COOPER: Luther didn't begin his work with He was simply calling it to repent, specifically of securing salvation. He was challenging the abusive authority within How would history look now if the Pope had point? Would a Protestant movement still exist if Declared a heretic by Leo the Tenth and vilified went into hiding in Eisenach, and although &quot;Here I stand,&quot; this much is clear: in exile In fact, he became even more bold. He wrote and taught and reformulated his doctrines He began to translate the New Testament into Bible in their own language for the very first Here in exile his desire for moral reformation the establishment of a new church, one which New Testament. TRUEMAN: Luther's understanding of the church Reformation, but in terms of his mature understanding, of the Word. The minister is the man, the priest is the not simply for Luther an explanation of the The Word is God speaking to the people. The Word comes in a powerful and transformative It either loosens people if they grasp it they meet it with unbelief. In terms of the congregation, I think Luther with faith. You would go to church to hear the Word read in your language, and that was an active thing. Often we tend to think of congregants as sitting preaches. For Luther, listening was active because listening So when the Word was proclaimed, the congregation When his hairdresser, Peter the barber, is bits of advice is go to church. Hear the Word preached. Hear the psalms being sung. And for Luther that would help Peter with passively receiving this stuff; he's supposed it by faith so the Lord will transform him. GODFREY: I think Luther was committed theoretically congregationalist polity and that worship fair level of congregational involvement in But Luther also recognized that the external matter of indifference and that in the world made not by ministers or theologians but would So the princes ended up making the decisions serve and how the liturgy at the church would COOPER: Luther understood that all believers social standing, were invaluable members of All believers are priests, for the kingdom And these priests were not under the authority God. KOLB: The Word of God, especially as anchored was key to Luther's entire call for reform. And so the sermon, he says in 1526 in his now the center. The Lord's Supper, the celebration of the was key to the Christian life as well, daily But the sermon, the delivery of the Word of that was 85-90 percent illiterate, that was NICHOLS: Why would a church want to keep Scripture Well of course the answer is obvious, because You need to rely on what the church says and power over the people. The other reason that we see here is that of the Middle Ages were based on a bad translation. In fact, we see this in the very first of After Luther wrote the Ninety-five Theses, of the Ninety-five Theses,&quot; and those are Theses, which are more or less single sentences. And in the first expansion of the first thesis, Theses, Luther references the Greek text and Of course, the Greek Word for &quot;repent&quot; is We get from this the idea of a change of mind. So you do a 180 is the idea of repentance. This is how the Latin Vulgate translated that agite, and what that is best translated, or Well there's a world of difference between Greek Word metanoia, and Luther saw it. Remember it was just in 1516 that we have the scholar Erasmus' work at the town of Basel. An one of those copies made its way into Luther's Luther is reading the Greek text in 1516 and Theses. LAWSON: It was so scandalous because in the the Church stood in a posture of authority The Pope became the chief interpreter of the Reformation is that the Reformers, chief of over the church, that the Bible commands and So that's what really was the heart of the It was a crisis of authority in the church. And no longer now would human tradition and himself, be the authority in the church. The highest arbitrator in the church would in the canon of written Scripture. TRUEMAN: The purpose of preaching was to convict to them, pointing them to the righteous God demands of the law, and then, to offer the To command them to do something they can't One who has done it for them. LAWSON: First are foremost, he had a fire and proclamation of the Word of God. The kind of preacher that he was, he was a TRUEMAN: There's a famous painting by Lucas And there's his family on one side, and Luther's on the Bible. And his arm is outstretched pointing to a up beautifully Luther's approach to preaching. It was to be based on the Bible, and it was LAWSON: He was full of life and energy. He wasn't simply a lecturer who stood in a He was bold, he was a son of thunder in the It's been said that when you read the sermons them out loud so that you can hear and feel he stood to preach the Word of God. COOPER: Luther insisted that those who would Word, that they be people committed to prayer Luther brought the Scriptures back to a place he also reinvigorated the practice of singing. After all, as Luther said, &quot;God has created extolling Him.&quot; SPROUL: Sacred music was an integral part And once he came out of the monastery, he importance of church music. In fact, he said, &quot;Second only to the Bible, because music had the singular ability to LAWSON: Well, in Luther's day, the worship leaders were spiritually dead, the people profession of faith in the church. And when Luther burst onto the scene, he brought and such theology revolutionized the doxology As people now are alive unto God, under the begin to overflow with anthems of praise for It is high doctrine that always promotes high for this. Luther himself began to write hymns and they and love for God. And so for example, when the black plague and to minister to the people who were suffering, that great hymn A Mighty Fortress Is Our God. It was the direct result of meditating upon and a refuge for him in his hour of greatest SPROUL: When the things would be difficult Luther's closest lieutenant, trying to rally let's sing the 46th,&quot; meaning, A Mighty Fortress And that song, of course, has come down to GODFREY: One of the convictions of Luther to know God's truth, and for that reason he the use of hymns, the development of hymns. NICHOLS: My favorite hymn of Luther's is a Bands. In that hymn Luther actually plays off of If they had bumper stickers in the Middle and the saying was this, &quot;In the midst of &quot;In the midst of life, we are in death.&quot; Isn't that a terrible worldview? You talk about the effect of the Middle Ages that was there on the eve of the Reformation? That they're saying is in the midst of life, Here's what Luther does in that hymn, and what a great theologian he is. In that hymn Luther turns it around. Now, the truth is, in the midst of death we COOPER: Luther, an adept hymn writer, had It was a teaching tool, it was a key part God given source of happiness. LUTHER: Music is a fair and lovely gift of the joy of preaching. I have no use for cranks who despise music Music drives away the devil and makes people arrogance, and the like. Next after theology, I give to music the highest I would not exchange what little I know of Experience proves that next to the Word of the mistress and governess of the feelings We know that to the devils music is distasteful My heart bubbles up and overflows in response delivered me from dire plagues. COOPER: Luther was many things. He was a daring revolutionary, he was a passionate He cared deeply for the people of God and He wrote hymns of such beauty that they're But arguably the most impressive aspect of and one that we often overlook: his ministry Martin Luther never expected to get married. His early writings suggested that he saw marriage sexual immorality. But after getting married himself Luther began TRUEMAN: Luther gets married in 1525. It's quite a controversial move of course a priest. He had taken vows of celibacy. He was certainly not the first Reformer to Clerical marriage had become quite common in 1525. But, of course, he's well into middle age He's a confirmed bachelor. He marries this lovely young lady, Katharina marry off. A group of them had fled from the town of a couple of years earlier. She was the one nun that they couldn't marry She falls in love with a young man, his parents The Wittenberg establishment try to marry in the territory and she won't marry him, They have what appears to be a marriage that Luther makes a comment to the effect that in exchange for his wife. KOLB: Of course the house must have been just and Katharina and six children. They took in nieces and nephews, they had who took care of this kind of student dormitory. COOPER: Undoubtedly, it would take a woman to a man like Martin Luther. Someone who could not only endure his good-natured got. TRUEMAN: Katie was a remarkable woman in her She also did some gardening work in the town household and took in lodgers, and they seemed each other. One of the touching things about visiting the house, the Augustinian cloister that elector a doorframe, an arch with a little stool on This was apparently a present, a birthday she didn't think they spent enough time talking So she brought this doorframe so that at the of the door and just talk to each other. So it's a delightful story and she was deeply He died away from home, he died in the town He was there doing some political business each other and he took ill and died, and she moments. So it really is a very beautiful and touching KOLB:[Luther] Had some very warm stories to He came in once and touched the lips of his because he had not thought to wash his hands. I didn't even think about whether people washed He knew that with dirty hands that he had touch the baby's mouth and he was just horrified sick. I don't think she got sick but, so he had TRUEMAN: When the Luthers' daughter Magdalene the account that he gives is how much faith She's looking at her father and saying things I'm going to be with my heavenly father. I'm going to be in a better place,&quot; and he he didn't want her to see him weeping. And he's sort of beating himself up because has, that he wants her to stay with him but to her heavenly father. And then he talks about the coffin and about small and so beautiful has died and can be So it's a very, very moving scene. He and Katie were deeply devastated by the be. KOLB: And had a also wonderful spiritual relationship. The most dramatic story that I know is when and depression and she came dressed in black, He knew Wittenberg very well and he hadn't why she had dressed in black. And she said that apparently God had died revived him. TRUEMAN: within the house. There's an anecdote where he makes what she comment about an Anabaptist leader, one of there. And she rebukes him and says, &quot;You shouldn't and apparently he backs off straight away, He refers to her as his chain, he plays on the Latin for Katherine, Katharina. He plays on that as a pun so he calls her Katie,&quot; so I think within the home, Luther would say back in England. He was very much the loving, doting husband COOPER: Luther the family man is perhaps where character: his love and his tenderness, his He was the monk who changed the world, but better or for worse, that never changed. LUTHER: You have fought against us as one You are undisciplined heads who out of utter or in agreement, but are different and self-centered You teach the disorderly masses to break into COOPER: Imagine being on the receiving end Martin Luther was famous for his caustic barbs even by today's standards, especially when In fact, when you put together Luther's character became embroiled in in later life, it's hard How do we evaluate a man whose words make yet a moment later make us wince? TRUEMAN: Anyone who reads Luther, or reads man of extremes at points. For example, at the Diet of Worms where he mass ranks of empire and Church. Less than four years after he posts the Ninety-five professor and monk to standing in this room empire who could take him outside and burn It took massive courage to do that. Yet if you read Luther's life, you also, for in 1525 when the peasants rise up in rebellion In 1525 Luther writes a book known as his And so, we admire the one Luther, the Luther by the Luther of 1525. I think what we need to understand, of course, Luther to do the one great and admirable thing Luther was a bullheaded man who was capable he knew it was right and he was going to move And that allows him to stand at the Diet of have crumbled. Philip Melanchthon was a gentle soul, could The problem with that kind of personality, end of an argument, or when they go off in spectacular as the greatness was spectacular. COOPER: The Martin Luther of the early days of congeniality in debate, but he was rarely GODFREY: One of the harder things for moderns there was absolutely no notion of denominationalism. For centuries, probably almost from its beginning, either the true Church or false churches. You know, today I'm a Presbyterian, you're we have differences, we may even see some one another as Christians. That was not the case through most of the You were either in the one true church or And Luther initially hoped very much to be saw as the one true church. But when it became more and more obvious that would not reform itself, Luther's conclusion church. That's why fairly early on in the 1520's, antichrist. And again, maybe when people in the 21st century He was not being rhetorical. He believed that the Pope was the eschatological the age. And so Luther is very earnest in everything Church of Rome. And what's interesting when you read most never refer to the Catholic Church; they refer that we are the catholic church, we are the church of all ages. Now Luther and all the Reformers believed that still held to the gospel. But they believed they could say that the official teachers had rejected the gospel. And I think it's worth saying, here as we're Reformation, that if Luther came back today Church. The Roman Church in fundamental ways has not clearly, and still elevates law to a place of justification by faith alone. COOPER: For Luther, everything was theocentric. He took deep personal offence when he felt and so his most cutting rhetoric was reserved denying the truth about God, and this includes people. As a result, some have condemned Luther as Others have noted that Luther's words were at extermination. However, for many years, Luther strongly advocated toward the Jewish people. LUTHER: guided in our dealings with them not by papal We must receive them cordially and permit teaching, and witness our Christian life. If some of them should prove stiff-necked, After all, we ourselves are not all good Christians COOPER: Luther strongly advocated for the in his day. Rather than treating them as second-class desired that they be treated with the same as any German. TRUEMAN: Anti-Jewish sentiment was deeply 16th century. Almost everybody would have hated, despised, NICHOLS: Luther's first piece in which he and in that piece, Luther actually says many TRUEMAN: In which he emphasizes Jesus' Jewishness, be kind to their Jewish neighbors, they should the gospel to them. NICHOLS: And really for the next decade Luther things than others were saying. TRUEMAN: Luther is very much the heir a late is going to return soon. And he understands himself as playing a role end of time, the Reformation. The breaking out of the gospel is an end time to the return of the Lord Jesus Christ. And one of the precursors to the return of of the Jews. So in 1523, Luther writes this, in many ways, arguing that Christians should be kind and that is the way to draw them into taking the so that they'll be converted to the Lord Jesus COOPER: Luther had been sure that overturning winning the Jewish people to the faith. But he was mistaken, and he didn't take kindly He also became incensed when he learned that to adhere to the Old Testament law. In his eyes, this was robbing the Christian result, some of Luther's later work makes LUTHER: Set fire to their synagogues or schools not burn so that no man will ever again see I advise that their houses also be razed and writings in which such idolatry, lies, cursing their rabbis be forbidden to teach henceforth COOPER: It's nearly impossible for us to hear but how should we understand them? Are we right to see them as a racist diatribe? Or was there another motivation at work? NICHOLS: And so here Luther writes this text this text on the Jews and their despicable And so in this text, Luther goes after them. He doesn't go after them on racial grounds; You know, at one point Luther says, &quot;Melanchthon Right? So here's Melanchthon, his successor at Wittenberg. You can almost see him with the precision words, and words well said and well put. Well, that wasn't Luther. Luther has axe in hand, and he's flailing Right? Now, this is not an excuse, but it is a way understand Luther in his context. GODFREY: What Luther comes later in his life devil everywhere is active using the law to So everywhere he is seeing the devil promoting in the gospel, and that's why he becomes so that's why he can be very sharp against Anabaptists, always all about the law. And that's why he criticizes Jews. What all these groups have in common is their the gospel and undermines the work of Christ. COOPER: The book of James says, &quot;If we put obey us, we guide their whole bodies as well. Look at the ships also, though they are so guided by a very small rudder wherever the So also, the tongue is a small member yet How great a forest is set ablaze by such a And the tongue is a fire, a world of unrighteousness. The tongue is set among our members staining course of life and set on fire by hell. For every kind of beast and bird, of reptile tamed by mankind, but no human being can tame It is a restless evil full of deadly poison. With it we bless our Lord and Father, and likeness of God. From the same mouth come blessing and cursing.&quot; This was certainly true of Luther's tongue. Here was a man who said, &quot;I find nothing that For when I wish to compose, write, pray and It refreshes my entire system, my mind is depression fade away.&quot; Like fire, anger is a great servant, but a Luther's zeal for truth seemed to blind him His tongue set the world ablaze with bright of hand. Speaking of Luther, John Calvin once said, excellent gifts he has. The strength of mind and resolute constancy, power he has used in devoting all his energies to spread far and near the teaching of salvation. I've often said that even if he were to call outstanding servant of God. But with all his rare and excellent virtues, Would that he had studied to curb his restless everywhere. Flatterers have done him much mischief since to himself.&quot; Calvin recognized that even the greatest man with sin until the end. He saw that struggle in Abraham, in Moses, And Luther himself knew how great a sinner It was precisely that self-knowledge that to him. LUTHER: So when the devil throws your sins death and hell, tell him this: &quot;I admit that For I know One who suffered and made satisfaction His name is Jesus Christ, Son of God, and COOPER: Though the fire of Luther's tongue which Luther had fanned into flame. In our day, perhaps more than any other since are living with a real sense of unease. The Christian faith in previous generations force for good in society is now often seen The charge to Christians is this: conform SPROUL: The world always tries to get the world wants, even when it seeks counsel, it It wants the church to embrace wherever the situation today. The whole question of marriage between men about marriage equality. That's where the culture is, and the culture endorse, promote and embrace this kind of And it's the same with abortion. The church has been very much involved as acceptance of abortion on demand. And so we've heard from a recent presidential of the church have to change in order to conform COOPER: Luther and the Reformers left us with the world calls on the church to conform to is that the church be conformed to Scripture, The generation following Luther summarized secundum verbum Dei, &quot;always be reforming NICHOLS: One of the things that Luther actually the gospel. The very last sermon that Luther preached Wittenberg not to distort the gospel, not He was seeing German peasants and the German In fact it's in that sermon that he talks And he also says, &quot;Why would you settle for That's what Luther says. His fear was that the gospel would be distorted his hope for the church of every age was to SPROUL: There are lots of historians who are In many cases saying good riddance, as some in the first place. It was just simply a matter of doctrine, and And there's this basic either indifference But Luther argued, of course, in the 16th which is the doctrine of the gospel, is the stands or falls. The doctrines of the Council of Trent from of merits, the system of indulgences, all the doctrine of justification by faith alone Now a lot of people ignore it, a lot of people was an old time argument but it doesn't appeal I've had other scholars say what has changed The gospel is still the gospel, and it has And insofar as the gospel is always in danger with clarity and urgency in every generation, KOLB: Luther had a very strong sense of history. God created in the beginning, and there was in human history. Human history is also God's history for Luther. What that means is that we are faced with The gospel of Jesus Christ does not change. We are caught in our rebellion against God. Luther would say above all, our doubt of God's of dying and rising in Christ is always there. But because God is a God of history, things and new ways of conveying this gospel of death developed. And so the church needs always, not only to always to be in a state of repentance. LAWSON: And so the church has always been its message, but as long as we are rooted of God, the truth will always be preached to the spirit of this age, that is totally hear. We must be different in order to make a difference to preaching the Word of God. The grass withers, the flower fades away, COOPER: The Reformation isn't over. If we have ears to hear, God's Word creates time it's heard, but there is another kind We who live in the West are experiencing it The social privilege we once enjoyed has been as intolerant bigots, socially regressive as progressive. It's challenging and increasingly costly for firm. But even as the West declares Christianity to tell. The gospel has not been extinguished here, America, Africa and many parts of Asia. Today, more than 2.2 billion people around earth's population, claim to be believers, Sub-Saharan Africa alone is projected to be by 2050. Clearly God's gospel does not fail, and because LAWSON: The reason we have hope is ultimately That God rules and reigns in the heavens and that what man means for evil, God intends And even in the darkest hours of history, cannot extinguish the light. The light will always extinguish the darkness. TRUEMAN: Christians should still have hope Christ is risen. It doesn't matter what worldly authorities does, it doesn't matter who's elected president, about you, God is still sovereign and Christ SPROUL: Well, we don't just hope that God's keeping our fingers crossed, but we have an He will do, and that's the hope that we have TRUEMAN: The gates of hell will not prevail The story does end with God not only being the new heavens and the new earth. So Christians should always have hope. Yes, our own bodies are going to grow old we will be resurrected and be with the Lord SPROUL: I am absolutely certain that no power extinguish the kingdom of God, that the church The church of Christ will conquer all things. That's the hope that we have. COOPER: There's something else Luther's story However dark the century becomes, however the light of the gospel to be fully extinguished. And just when the fire appears to be fading than ever before. LUTHER: God is our hope and strength in woe. Through earth he maketh wars to cease. His power breaketh spear and bow. His mercy sendeth endless peace. Then though the earth remove and storms rage still will we not fear, the Lord of hosts