[dimly-lit jazz music] The year 2000. For the past six years, Doom fans had been left wondering if Doom II would ever receive a follow-up. Its developers at id Software had stayed plenty the series since 1996. But Doom, arguably the biggest and most important was 1994, with an active scene of modders for a proper sequel. Then came the announcement from developer works, despite notable workplace drama surrounding Ultimatums were made, people got fired, it But hey, Doom 3! The public got its first look at the game at MacWorld of all things. And it looked incredible. &quot;John Carmack of id Software.&quot; So the big trick that we're getting now is the final unification of lighting and shadows across all surfaces in a game. Games had to do these hacks and tricks for years now, where we do different things for characters, and different things for environments, and different things for lights that move versus lights that are static. And now we're able to do all of that the same way for everything. Even more impressive was the E3 alpha demo slice of gameplay showing off its character All wildly awe-inspiring stuff, with its crazy demons, with technology that unquestionably on the market, FPS or otherwise. Something that was confirmed once the demo only hyped up fans even more. E3 2003 brought another trailer, but with that it wouldn't be done anytime soon. And it was right around then that Doom 3 first Magazine picked up at a snack shop at the Alongside all the Matrix sequel fanfare was was just about to publish his superb book, At the time, I knew Doom 3 was on the way, and preparing to leave the US, I hadn't But this article, those screenshots, these Yeah, I went from not caring that much to I started religiously buying issues of Computer fantasizing about building my own computer up the cash for GPU and CPU upgrades. Finally, Doom 3 hit store shelves on August by Activision for Windows PCs. With ports being released for Linux, Mac OS, But it's this original 2004 PC release that's man, I've got some feelings regarding this For one thing, I've always felt that Doom filling the rambunctious demon-hunting shoes At the same time though, Doom 3 is one of I respect it for what it actually is instead Eh I'm already getting ahead of myself though. Because to me in 2004, Doom 3 felt like a That salivating Hell Knight gracing the box detailed at the time, I just had to play this "The gateway to hell is open" indeed, and it required one helluva graphics card to go through it. Officially, Doom 3 was able to run on any with 64 megs of VRAM and DirectX 9.0b support. But in reality? You'd want at least 128 megabytes and plenty up with the game's ample texture size and In my case, I traded some spare parts to a was a couple years old at the point I got from my 64 megabyte GeForce 2. And that's how I first played Doom 3, on XP 1.2 gigahertz CPU, 384 megs of RAM, and resolution on low settings. And it was absolutely excellent! From what I could tell anyway. While I was just psyched to be able to run really demanded was something like the Nvidia card that was well outside of my price range. Cranking Doom 3's graphics up to "Ultra" it warned you straight up that this required get to play it that way until years later. And we'll be playing it maxed out here as release from 2004, just with a widescreen Also inside the box is the manual, with a on how to install and play the game. Complete with charming little asides hand-scrawled bloody fingerprint and spattering of bodily Just wholesome stuff. And finally there's this quick reference mouse and keyboard, as well as an amusing previous owner I bought this from. Also on here is this cute little note from "A Note of Caution: Doom 3 is a terrifying &quot;It is not recommended for the cowardly or &quot;However, for those who dare to face Doom 3 &quot;Turn off the lights. And turn up your sound.&quot; &quot;Enjoy Doom 3." [chuckles] Ahh it's just adorable. So let's take their advice, lock ourselves and enjoy Doom 3 as the developers intended. [ambient droning] [Doom 3 theme plays] Ahh yeah, that Doom 3 theme was an instant Apparently Trent Reznor was being considered Chris Vrenna and Clint Walsh, who together As that rockin' menu music does its thing of four difficulty levels, followed by an The gist of it being that the Union Aerospace science experimentation weirdness. Or more accurately, the UAC is back for the of the original Doom's story. Or maybe a prequel, depending on which version but eh, doesn't matter! The point is you're a silent space marine At the same time as Doomguy's dropping in, bodyguard Jack Campbell. Upon landing there's a whole section of excuse to learn the controls and ooh and ahh [dropship engines whirring] Welcome to Mars. All new arrivals need to check in at reception. I'll be using Creative's EAX sound mode, roominess to the sound that's entirely absent From here you're free to explore the facility and computer screens, admiring the real-time around random crap in the mess hall, following perhaps pounding your knuckles into a quick But it won't be long before you're zoomed a third-person cutscene, something Doom 3 and new features. Okay, there's a few things we need to take This is your personal data assistant. You'll need this to access all secure areas. If you get clearance for any security zones, It's important so don't lose it! [chuckles] Ahh, 2004. Doom 3 may have been set 141 years in the consists of chunky PDAs with plain text emails Fantastic. After this you'll do a little Doomguy eavesdropping, scientist man talking about plot! The board authorized you? Hmph. The board doesn't know the first thing about All they want is something to make them more Some product. Don't worry, they'll get their product. After how many accidents? Tell me, Dr. Betruger, why are so many workers requesting transfers off Mars? They simply can't handle life here. They're exhausted and overworked. If I had a larger, more competent staff and could've been avoided... Oh yeah, Dr. Betruger? Nothing suspicious there at all, I'm sure Eventually you'll make your way into the Thomas Kelly, stop by the armory to pick up reach your assignment at the decommissioned Where things go, ah. Very wrong, in the most unsurprising way. This is bad! Oh god! We can't hold these levels. We're losing it! Huh? No! [general demon possession noises] [pistol firing, zombie death] What a twist, the UAC's meddling in weird The base's employees and your fellow soldiers hordes of gnarly hellbeasts are popping up In other words, it's Doom time, with one in the entire series. [panicked radio chatter] I say again, fall back to Marine HQ and await further orders! [electrical explosion] Yeah it's a little slow to get started, Ya got frenzied screams and death over the A pistol and a flashlight in your hands, never And plenty of heavily scripted but nonetheless One by one, zombified workers and soldiers corners, behind doors, or out of the pitch that permeates the majority of levels. And pretty much all of the first two Dooms' in some form or another. Along with some fresh faces including maggots, and the nasty spider-like trites. Most of the game has you dealing with three the depths of the UAC's military and industrial sci-fi machinery, and grungy metallic hallways that may as well be lifted from Aliens and Event Horizon. These environments make up the majority of diversions, including some outdoor sections breathing and avoiding an unfortunate Total Along with a couple trips to various Martian and even a trek or two to hell itself. Not a whole lotta time spent in hell, it's more of a quick stop for brunch than a full-on vacation. But it's there and it's appreciated nonetheless. As are the piecemeal bits of story and Martian NPC, provided you can keep them alive. And also by picking up discarded text and These bits of story and flavor text are all them can pay dividends in that they sometimes rooms and storage lockers containing armor, Same goes for certain computer terminals and by aiming at them, moving the mouse around, "That's a good trick!" Yeah man, in terms of overall atmosphere, I've probably played through this first it still provides a special kind of threat Certainly back in '04 nothing else even exceptions being the introduction levels of Both of which feel like a clear inspiration, In a serious departure from its predecessors, to slow things down and take its time telling dire situations, building up each room's fast-paced combat. Gone is the old school level design, controls, And in its place is a distinctly mid-2000s of body horror, jump scares, and dimly-lit Your foes explode into blood, bones, and brains from behind walls or creep up behind you, through the dark to the next objective with And I'm not saying it's a bad thing either, absolutely worked for me back then. But the truth was that not everyone was down with how differently Doom 3 plays compared to its ancestors. Other than maybe Doom 64, both that and Doom from the same cloth in certain ways, but eh, My point is that Doom 3's pacing is entirely and for a 9-ish hour long horror shooter in I wouldn't call it particularly "scary," More like "stressful and nerve-wracking," the feeling of being in a nightmare. Like those bad dreams where you're stuck while trying in vain to outrun your killer. That's Doomguy, a strong but sluggish marine but short-lived sprint mode that's frequently And you spend far more time skulking around you do circle-strafing around masses of monsters Heh, yeah let's talk about the flashlight, Clearly the flashlight is here to show off and hey, it's impressive stuff so I get But it's more than that, the flashlight upper layer of tension to every encounter, since you have to swap it back and forth with your weapons constantly. Is it frustrating at times? Absolutely! But it's also a core part of the intended Even if illogical. The UAC has sci-fi teleportation technology figured how to tape a light to a gun? Har-dee-har just use duck tape, or the duck Nah man, not for me. Play however you want to of course, use a for me I've come to appreciate the sheer The flashlight was a design choice that's that playing without it ruins a large chunk Which isn't ideal because honestly, the Even on higher difficulties, Doom 3 isn't that challenging of a game in terms of enemy encounters. Whenever I die, it's almost always by something large number of pits, setting off explosives technician, or the confusing armor system Armor absorbs 30% of damage dealt, but it's die with plenty of armor left since you still Not a fan. There's also the straight up bad luck involving view around, combined with weapon unpredictability. The shotgun in particular is a tad weird. I don't hate it, but it's not great, despite low-level enemies in gratuitous fashion. Its main problem is that you have to be directly for the shotgun to do its thing. And even then, sometimes the spread is so So killing an Imp might take one, two, or depending on how close you are and the randomness of the spread. Weak. So I often end up using the machine more often it also has a pretty small magazine so the Or to be fair, it's more that my compulsive but ehh. What I mean is, unlike the previous games, And while reloading makes sense as a tension so often with certain guns, like the chaingun Both are powerful to use, but that mightiness and scarcity, so they rarely get a chance Thankfully the new plasma rifle is fantastic It looks, sounds, and feels great, with no projectiles are slow it effectively vaporizes And it's the best for taking out enemy projectiles Especially handy against the Revenant and Far less engaging are the hand grenades, which corridors in kind of a strange way that makes At least the chainsaw's back with no fuel every demon that dares comes close. And of course, the BFG 9000 makes its return the trigger and launching green plasma that Finally, and this doesn't come until the It's a Martian artifact that dwarfs the but only holding one shot at a time. After five kills you can toss it forward, restoring your health in the process. Nice. And particularly useful against bigger demons as the game's few bosses. Notably the expected end-game Cyberdemon, harmed using normal weapons. And yeah, that's where Doom 3 ends! The Hellmouth is sealed, Doomguy escapes with to wait around to rise again some other day. Forces of evil like this thing, which is shown flying around waitin' for a fight. A fight which came on April 3rd, 2005: Resurrection developed by Nerve Software, Doom 3's one and only expansion pack. It takes place two years later, after picking and the UAC reactivating the Mars Research in a squad of cannon-fodder to investigate. Huh. Some things never change around here. Yeah you're telling me, random grunt who'll And this time around, instead of the old silent a combat engineer investigating the abandoned site and figure out what in tarnation's goin' Oh and look the skeleton dragon thing is back There are 12 new single player levels and it has a surprisingly different feel thanks I can't help but feel that part of this 3 and Resurrection of Evil. Straight away you're given the Grabber Gun, which is Gordon Freeman's Gravity Gun in all but name. Apparently this thing was already working it's one of those happenstance simultaneous Whatever the case may be, the grabber lets enemies and projectiles. And toss them around to make for a completely to the base game. Another new addition is the triumphant return was confusingly absent before and should never of time, forever and ever, amen. Finally, there's The Artifact, a soul cube whole evil resurrecting thing going on. It's not much use at first, but as you defeat berserk mode for buffing the strength of all Invulnerability for uh, providing exactly And Helltime for instigating some of that this was the mid-2000s and that's just what All things considered not a bad expansion, and doling out an appropriate amount of newness And that's about it for the core Doom 3 Other than multiplayer, but no one's playing for that unfortunately. Single player though, yeah, I'd say it's the first time if you've got a spare nine Though I don't find it to be as immediately more linear maps, 75% of which look pretty secrets that might've incentivized further Doom 3's haunted house-style level design bafflingly unbalanced mechanics here and there. But the complete ride is still worth taking And I feel that it's earned a spot at the sheep status among certain Doom fans, myself I went through stages of loving Doom 3, to Doom game, to appreciating the heck out of Kinda like a bold new experimental painting strokes were used, yet the result is an entirely One with a lot more black and gray and red. Not for everyone, but its fans love it for However, I'd encourage you to seek out the Yeah it's got some enhanced graphics, a But the tension is fundamentally lower with you and tweaked ammo counts making firefights And I'm not a fan of its unskippable cutscenes and brighter, more contrasty lighting model draped over everything. It's a subtle change, but it's there, Check out the Dhewm3 source port if you're plays nicer with newer hardware and widescreen and even allows EAX support without a Creative sound card. Regardless though, I hope that you've enjoyed A Doom game that doesn't quite feel like yet somehow feels exactly like a Doom game [weird echoey voices] [gratuitous cackling] And if you enjoyed this Doomed episode of all the main titles in the series. Or maybe subscribe for new videos, I post right here on LGR. And always, thank you for watching.