The Germans had been stopped and hurled back war skillful Russian Gunnery and unending As the tide began to turn on the German increasingly impacted their efforts. Whether this or close air support the dwindling supply the ground at risk. While flak guns such as fortresses and other large bombers these were bombing and strafing units and supplies. of the violent treatment 8th Airforce fighter In order to protect against these the projects to create vehicles known as the story of one of these built using a Panzer Before we get into the story of the Wirbelwind Continuing the animal theme you can now get one out the link below to grab yourself one or any now back to the regularly scheduled tank content. vehicles during WW2 in many ways parallels gun. During the early parts of the war AA half-tracks either being towed behind or in be driven into position and crewed to provide while this could protect strategic locations these as we see during the latter parts of the war, with anti-tank and artillery guns during the harder it was to move them around using The solution for all of these for Germany came in gun, which as the name implies allows for the For the larger cannons this would come in the but the same concept was applied for new The benefit of such a vehicle, as you can probably vehicles or infantry while also being able to Depending on the design they can also protect the is often inferior, or even missing altogether, on the German army that they could no longer rely and pilots dried up. In response to this programs offer protection to these vulnerable ground units. tanks at a sufficient pace to keep up with demand using vehicles which were already in production. were already underway to phase out production for of Sturmgeschutz, and demand for Panthers and the responsibility for this AA defense would fall first Flakpanzers Germany designed or built they The first of these designs to be proposed "Mobelwagen" which is German for "Furniture as being unsuitable in mid 1943, by October he tested with a completed prototype being shown to the first step towards the Wirbelwind, German for Flakvierling 38 mount. During travel the crew and creating a box-like appearance for the vehicle. be lowered partially or fully to provide more 20mm armed Mobelwagen would be built however would enter production with around 200-250 cheap option and proved to be at least reasonably risk should the allied planes target it. of requirements for future Flakpanzer -An armored, fully rotating -2 or more guns engage targets within 2000 meters -Sufficient supply of ammunition -Ventilation and fume extraction for the turret Interestingly, though, the Wirbelwind itself would these specifications. This would occur within field modification on some of their Panzer IVs of the original turret. Reportedly three of these fitted with a crude armored turret. Despite being design would end up helping to influence the final it. A similar vehicle was also built on the same period, showing that the need was great begun taking matters into their own hands. was displayed at Kummersdorf with it receiving then later by Hitler himself. Similar approval quite similar in design to the Wirbelwind although actual design of this new Flakpanzer was extremely Panzer IVs. These were built on Panzer IV G, H, for repairs. On top of these a slightly modified open-topped turret featuring 16mm of protection the total weight of the vehicle dropped 2-3 Initially the turret was tested with a hydraulic 60 degrees per second of horizontal traverse but likely due to cost and availability of parts. had also had the powered traverse removed so it However, this did reduce the traverse only having around 27 degrees per second. Other chassis were minor. Several other potential frontal turret armor, a folding armored shield for the turret but none of these were implemented. equipped with 3,200 rounds of ammunition ninety 20 round magazines. Additionally 1,350 The number of crew in the tank remained the the turret crew consisted of two loaders and a remaining two crew would sit in the hull Around the time the Wirbelwind was entering showed interest in Flakpanzer units to protect not the Wirbelwind and Ostwind turret could be in March of 1945. This was reportedly successful to a Panzer III to create a Flakpanzer III. Given mean the Wirbelwind turret could similarly be also unclear if any Flakpanzer III "Ostwind" how far along this project got it was canceled the Wirbelwind to replace the quad 20mm armament the Zerstorer 45, or Destroyer 45, tests using a two potentially being fitted into unaltered not progress any further and information As for the 20mm armed Wirbelwinds these would initial order for 80. By the time production were produced with sources differing on the exact units including the aforementioned 12th SS Panzer would see service on both the East and Western you can likely guess they were to provide security enemy aircraft when they appeared. This was not an attempt to deter them but rather to target and was to prevent the crews from wasting ammunition, easily spotting them as well. Considering a of 8 split into two groups of 4 each, any to their overall effectiveness at protecting were also used in ground support roles providing and other soft targets. One account during the AT gun knocked out two Mobelwagens before being abandon the weapon. Considering this reportedly no surprise they were quick to make themselves Overall it appears that the Whirlwinds performed well as ground support. With their quad 20mm guns effectively respond to incoming aircraft, other AA vehicles were unable to do. Really the fact that it came so late in the war and in such it was equipped with was fed by only 20 round but this did not seem to hinder the vehicle Mobelwagen and the Ostwind which eventually were afforded at least some protection from the vehicles built only two survive today with one Exhibition in Kiel Germany alongside other Kugelblitz turret. As for the second survivor undergoing an intensive restoration process Project. I met some of the people working on Military Museum where the tank now resides project. Although it still has a ways to go and has been completed and the turret is now back on It's clear this example saw combat as you can as writing in the drivers position. The tank the upper hull appearing to come from a Panzer IV H making this a bit of a Frankenstein's is equally interesting with it being part of a Canadian soldier named Farley Mowat. The story of is retold in the book "My Father's Son" if you'd likely be covering it in a future video as he Axis technology now on display in Canada. He and from the British and disguise it as a submarine hopefully it will be back on display soon so chance to see this rare vehicle fully restored. Germany the Wirbelwind is the tale of a vehicle its purpose well and was a cheap solution time it reached the battlefield the war was Germany fielded their first true Flakpanzer, Ostwind and Kugelblitz proving the viability of vehicles remain in service around the world, aerial threats. Recent events between Russia vehicles to protect and support ground forces What do you think about the Wirbelwind though, battle or am I wrong and should have put this in the comments and don't forget to check out the design. You can also grab yourself a model of the checking out WarBricksUSA and if you use the I also want to remind you that all the sources description so if you want to learn even more for yourself and if you buy a copy of the books I well as the authors. Special thanks to the staff opportunity to see their Wirbelwind in person and the flakpanzer restoration project have done though so I hope you enjoyed and thanks as always even when the upload schedule gets a bit messed you want more flakpanzer content check out my or on some of the Flakpanther concepts.