I decided when I was asked to do this that what I really wanted to talk about I was one of the fortunate few and enjoyed his presence. And I'm going to tell you I'm sure there are people here about the Richard Feynman they knew, and it would probably be Richard Feynman was a very complex man. He was a man of many, many parts. He was, of course, foremost, He was an actor. You saw him act. I also had the good fortune up in the balcony. They were fantastic. He was a philosopher. He was a drum player. He was a teacher par excellence. Richard Feynman was also a showman, an enormous showman. He was brash, irreverent. He was full of macho, He loved intellectual battle. He had a gargantuan ego. But the man had, somehow, a lot of room at the bottom. And what I mean by that I can't speak for anybody else, a lot of room for another big ego. Well, not as big as his, but fairly big. I always felt good with Dick Feynman. It was always fun to be with him. He always made me feel smart. How can somebody like that Somehow he did. He made me feel smart. He made me feel we were both smart, and the two of us could solve And in fact, we did sometimes We never published a paper together, but we did have a lot of fun. He loved to win, win these little macho games And he didn't only play them with me, He would almost always win. But when he didn't win, when he lost, he would laugh and seem as if he had won. I remember once he told me a story about a joke the students played on him. I think it was for his birthday -- they took him for lunch to a sandwich place in Pasadena. It may still exist; I don't know. Celebrity sandwiches was their thing. You could get a Marilyn Monroe sandwich. You could get a Humphrey Bogart sandwich. The students went there in advance, and arranged that they'd all order One after another, they came in Feynman loved this story. He told me this story, When he finished the story, I said to him, &quot;Dick, I wonder what between a Feynman sandwich And without skipping a beat at all, he said, &quot;Well, they'd be about the same. The only difference is a Susskind &quot;Ham&quot; as in bad actor. (Laughter) Well, I happened to have been and I said, &quot;Yeah, (Laughter) (Applause) The truth of the matter is that a Feynman sandwich but absolutely no baloney. What Feynman hated worse was intellectual pretense -- phoniness, false sophistication, jargon. I remember sometime during the mid-'80s, Dick and I and Sidney Coleman up in San Francisco -- up in San Francisco for dinner. And the last time the rich guy invited us, he also invited a couple of philosophers. These guys were philosophers of mind. Their specialty was the philosophy And they were full of all kinds of jargon. I'm trying to remember the words -- &quot;monism,&quot; &quot;dualism,&quot; I didn't know what those meant, neither And what did we talk about? Well, what do you talk about There's one obvious thing to talk about: Can a machine become a mind? Can you build a machine that thinks like a human being We sat around and talked about this -- But the trouble with the philosophers is that they were philosophizing when they should have been It's a scientific question, after all. And this was a very, very around Dick Feynman. (Laughter) Feynman let them have it -- It was brutal; it was funny -- But it was really brutal. He really popped their balloon. But the amazing thing was -- he wasn't feeling too well, And Sidney and I were left there And the amazing thing They were so happy. They had met the great man; they had been instructed by the great man; they had an enormous amount of fun having their faces shoved in the mud ... And it was something special. I realized there was something even when he did what he did. Dick -- he was my friend; Dick and I had a little bit of a rapport. I think it may have been a special We liked each other; I also like the intellectual macho games. Sometimes I would win, but we both enjoyed them. And Dick became convinced at some point that he and I had I don't think he was right. I think the only point is we both like to talk about ourselves. But he was convinced of this. And the man was incredibly curious. And he wanted to understand that there was this funny connection. And one day, we were walking. We were in France, in Les Houches. We were up in the mountains, 1976. And Feynman said to me, &quot;Leonardo ...&quot; The reason he called me &quot;Leonardo&quot; and he was practicing his French. (Laughter) And he said, &quot;Leonardo, were you closer to your mother I said, &quot;Well, my real hero was my father. He was a working man, had a fifth-grade education. He was a master mechanic, He taught me all sorts of things He even taught me the Pythagorean theorem. He didn't call it the hypotenuse, he called it the shortcut distance.&quot; And Feynman's eyes just opened up. He went off like a lightbulb. And he said that he had had basically exactly the same In fact, he had been convinced at one time that to be a good physicist, it was very important to have had with your father. I apologize for the sexist but this is the way it really happened. He said he had been absolutely a necessary part of the growing up Being Dick, he, of course, He wanted to go out and do an experiment. (Laughter) Well, he did. He went out and did an experiment. He asked all his friends &quot;Was it your mom or your pop They were all men, and to a man, every single &quot;My mother.&quot; (Laughter) There went that theory, (Laughter) But he was very excited who had the same experience as he had with his father. And for some time, he was convinced I don't know. Maybe. Who knows? But let me tell you a little bit Feynman's style -- &quot;Style&quot; makes you think or the suit he was wearing. It's something much deeper than that, but I can't think of another word for it. Feynman's scientific style most elementary solution If it wasn't possible, No doubt, part of this in showing people that he could But he also deeply believed, that if you couldn't explain you didn't understand it. In the 1950s, people how superfluid helium worked. There was a theory. It was due to a Russian It was a complicated theory; I'll tell you what it was soon enough. It was a terribly complicated theory, full of very difficult and mathematics and so forth. And it sort of worked, The only way it worked is when the helium atoms And unfortunately, the helium atoms in liquid helium Feynman decided, as a sort that he would try to figure it out. He had an idea, a very clear idea. He would try to figure out what the quantum wave function He would try to visualize it, guided by a small number The small number of simple principles The first one was that when they repel. The implication of that is that it has to vanish when the helium The other fact the lowest energy state the wave function is always very smooth; it has the minimum number of wiggles. So he sat down -- and I imagine he had nothing more than a simple piece and he tried to write down, the simplest function which had the boundary conditions that the wave function and is smooth in between. He wrote down a simple thing -- that I suspect a really smart who didn't even have calculus could understand what he wrote down. The thing was, that simple thing explained everything that was known and then some. I've always wondered the real professional helium physicists -- were just a little bit They had their super-powerful technique, and they couldn't do as well. Incidentally, I'll tell you It was the technique of Feynman diagrams. (Laughter) He did it again in 1968. In 1968, in my own university -- they were exploring The proton is obviously made this was more or less known. And the way to analyze it was, That's what Feynman diagrams to understand particles. The experiments that were going on you simply take the proton, and you hit it really sharply This was the thing The only problem was that They're difficult integrals. If you could do all of them, but you couldn't -- People were trying to do them. You could do a one-loop diagram. One loop, two loops -- but beyond that, you couldn't do anything. Feynman said, &quot;Forget all of that. Just think of the proton as an assemblage, a swarm, He called them &quot;partons.&quot; He said, &quot;Just think of it as a swarm Because they're moving real fast, relativity says the internal The electron hits it suddenly -- it's like taking a very sudden What do you see? You see a frozen bunch of partons. They don't move, and because they don't move you don't have to worry You don't have to worry You just get to think of it This was the key to analyzing Extremely effective. Somebody said the word I suppose it is, but it certainly evolved very, very deeply and of particles beyond that. Well, I had some more about my connection with Feynman, what he was like, but I see I have exactly half a minute. So I think I'll just finish up by saying: I actually don't think I think he would have said, But ... (Laughter) How should we honor Feynman? How should we really honor Feynman? I think the answer by getting as much baloney as we can. Thank you. (Applause)