Today we'll show you how to create depth using a technique called 'atmospheric perspective'.. by looking closely at the work of Jacob Maris. Hi everyone and welcome to the Rijksmuseum's very own creative channel: RijksCreative! This season, we'll show you everything you need to know about watercolors, inks and even blue prints! So grab your brushes and let's go! This is our teacher for today: Ingrid. And of course our expert from the Rijksmuseum: Jane Turner. Jane, what is atmospheric perspective? Atmospheric perspective is a theory of painting.. to create depth and recession in a landscape. So you use darker, clearer colors in the foreground. And fuzzier, hazier, lighter colors in the background.. to create that sense of depth. And watercolor is a very nice technique to do this. Greys in the back with lots of water and in front the darker colors with more paint. The first person to articulate that theory was actually Leonardo Davinci at the end of the 15th century. And you all know about his flying machines and the drawings of babies in the whomb.. but he acually also wrote a painting treatise.. and there he explained atmospheric perspective.. exactly as you said, using the darker colors in the foreground.. and the lighter colors in the background. But what I particulairly like about this watercolor.. it's a scene, we see, by moonlight. So it's very subtle with its shades of grey.. but there in the far distance of the city.. we also see little dots of gas lighting.. the first gaslights in the end of the 19th century. Okay, let's do it! So we're going to look at the work of Maris. This landscape. You can see a lot of greys. And as you can see in the depth the gray is a bit lighter then on the front. It's quite dark, so that's what you call atmospheric perspective.. or arial perspective, so that in the depth it's lighter.. and on the front it's very dark here. I think it's a good idea just to look at the greys first. How do you make them, because we have all those colors in our coloring box. We just try. Of course, you know.. maybe the color wheel. These are the primary colors. You can make grey with all the primary colors. I'll show you, of course you have yellow. We have red. And we have blue. If I mix these three up.. then I'll get a beautiful kind of grey. I need a lot of yellow. A little bit of blue. And a very little bit of red, really a very little bit. That's too much. Add a little bit more blue. You've got a beautiful grey, so if you mix them up you have a very nice grey. And if you add more water to it, it will become lighter. Dark grey, clean water, it will become ligter. Of course you can also mix with contrast colors. So red and green are the biggest contrast you can have.. So I have green and I have red.. If I mix them up, use a lot of green.. and only a little bit of red, because red is so strong. A little bit of red. Too much red is a bit brownish, a bit green extra. And you have also a nice grey, a bit more warmer then the other one. So I put it here, and then add some clean water. You see it's warmer then that one, it's a different one. You can also take the contrast color orange, so I start with orange. The biggest contrast of orange is blue. I take this blue. And if I mix them up I start again with the blue. Little bit orange. This is also a very nice gray. Much more blue-ish. And if you add clean water, it becomes lighter. My favourite grey is when you mix ultramarine blue.. with sienna, sienna brown. If you mix this two, you get a very nice natural color. I start with the brown.. And add a bit of blue, and here you are. A very nice color. I can also add water and it becomes lighter. There is also a grey in the box, that's Payne's grey.. that's called after the painter Payne, that's also beautiful. It's very neutral, you can use it also to make colors darker. And if you mix that with clean water it becomes lighter. So here you see all the different kinds of grey you can use in the work of Maris. Now we're going to sketch first, the watercolor. And I look at it closely, and I try to find the lines. If you see, the middle of the blades is the middle of the page, so that's interesting. And I think this is one-third, one-third, one-third.. so the centerpoint of the whole composition is here.. so that's interesting to see. But first I think we take almost the same.. measurments, I do that by hand. I think Maris was outside he probably did it also by hand. So this is the middle point where this mill is, the watermill. Be careful that you do this watermill not too big.. It's really a small mill and a very smal person in a very big landscape. So don't do this too big. Look carefuly, the blades of the mill is one line. So the blades of the mill are about the same one line.. Land here. Some extra lines, some light. And very important: The moon. Where is the moon? So here is our moon. The branches are put on later, I don't draw them this time. So these trees are a bit farther away, and these trees are here on the front. And a very little person here. So I think that's enough to start. You can make it a little bit lighter with our eraser. So, when you want to do this work, it's best to work from the background to the foreground. So you start with the, here.. then we do the trees and the mill and then later the details. I want to tell you something more about the clouds.. It's a good idea to practice a little bit.. because we can work in two ways, I'm just wet a little bit the paper.. You can also wet it with.. your brush. I start with the Payne's Greys, easy. So if I wet the piece of paper first.. then you see the lines will be very fluent and very soft.. And I you don't wet the paper.. the lines will be much harder, can you see the difference? So I think it's a good idea if we make these clouds, we first wet the paper. You can do this with a brush or with a sponge. You see that I also use a watercolor block which is gummed on all sides.. because we will use a lot of water. So now I'll start, what very important is that we leave the little moon open. A little bit sepia here. So I just put in a little color. Let's go behind the trees, otherwise you'll have a strange line here. Bit grayish in the top also, the same color. Always use horizontal lines. Touch the paper very loosly and quick. It's not like your painting a door. Very soft lines and quickly. The person you later, just paint over the color, so you don't have to leave that open. I take my bigger brush. Be careful where the moon is. And if you look closely you can also see some purple-ish color, more purple. So I add some bit of blue. Blue-ish, and a very little bit of red, really little bit red. A bit purple-ish, a bit purle above the moon. And you can also see a bit of yellow, it's more ocre, yellow ocre so I take the yellow ocre. I mix it also a bit with grey. Add just a little bit more purple here. And if you're afraid that the water making these strange forms. You can also dab a little bit with some paper. Now to see the moon properly. I'll make a bit of my favourite grey, with the sienna and ultramarine. And now I look at the moon, you need to make this round form. With water, you wash it away. So I think this is to start with a basic shades of the sky. Before you go to paint anything further.. if you want to paint the trees, this first have to dry. So now we have to let it dry a little bit, then we can paint the rest.. otherwise it wil just bleed into the sky and that's not wat you want. I'm going to start with the trees, down here in the front. I take the color sienna, a little bit of payne's grey together. This green-ish brown. I start with the darkest spots. You can see I use a lot of water. And here are the smaller trees. And here are the big trees. Make the edges a bit more soft, with an experimental dab. Then add of course a little color and then we're slowing comming to the foreground. A bit more grey-ish, add a little bit of blue. Make sure you try to find the right form of the windmill. I leave the blades out for this moment. For the little person here, you see his very little head.. Small shoulders, keep it very small. Then the whole landscape is big and overwhelming. I think that was the whole idea. You see that also I just dab with my brush. Not always to strong. So that's my first layer. I think I want to go back later when it's dried a little bit. So it takes a little while to leave this to dry. A little bit of brownish here. I don't touch the boat otherwise the water will just expand. So now I put a bit more darker to the trees, the first layer has dried a bit. Use a lot of sepia. Here are the trees which are far away.. and here are the trees on the front. There is a little path, so I leave this lighter. So back to the mill. And this area is also darker. You can see the boat mirrors in the water. When you paint something in the water, always use horizontal lines. Here is a little land over here, maybe you can just show something of the horse. It's very extraordianry that Maris used white paint.. to lighten up.. So we're going to use that also later. And white paint is not transparant, so I think it must have been washed. This line is too strong I think, so I washed it away a little bit. If you make a mistake, you can also take it away a bit. I take a very thin brush, and you can see the strong line.. and it continues on the other side the line.. and there is one where you can see the sails also. Some lines are lighter.. and make the mill quite dark. A bit to wet here, so I'll just wait. I think I leave this to dry a little bit, and then I can paint in here the branches of the trees. I think now I'm going to put in the branches.. just want to show you how I do this on this paper. Don't make too strong lines like this. Just take your brush very loose in your hand, very loose. Maybe turn it a little bit, and if you then make lines.. they look very natural. So with a little bit of paint, enough paint. Very loose in your hand, and turn a little bit. It's a good idea to practice it before you put it on the paper. The branches on the top of it lighter. I try to capture the idea of the trees in the back.. and in the front here. It wil allways dry up a bit lighter, so don't be afraid to make it too dark. You see the mill is again a bit light. Going to look for the details in front, in the foreground. Here are some horizontal lines, maybe this is something I don't know. Add a little bit more color, this is a little bit more blue in the sky. Just checking the last thing now. Some spots in the sky. a little bit more brown-ish here. And here are some sharp lines. This is the little water meets the land. A bit more green-ish here. I take ocre and a little bit of blue. I want to emphasize the depth a little bit, a bit more blue-ish in the background. For the last details, it's a bit strange but.. Maris also used white paint. It's not always done in watercolors. But of course it's very easy to just put in some extra light. He put it on the moon, some yellow-ish white in the background. Also on the clouds, on the downsides of the cloud. So I'm going to take some white paint, but be careful.. don't put it in your little box with colors. because this one is not transparant and this one is transparant, you dont want to mix them. You see, use a little bit white in the water. Some in the background. Clouds you can see it here very clearly in the dawn. It's the moonlight of course, shining against the clouds. Put a little bit clean wash, little bit of yellow. So I'm using white paint, I think Maris used gouache. We could also use some acrylic. And it's a different kind of paint then the watercolor paint.. watercolor paint is transparant and this one is not transaparant. and that's handy if you want to use it to make white spots in it. But some people don't mix it, but Maris did so we do also. It's very nice, in the boats you can see a little bit orangy white.. maybe there was a light on the boat, you can see it reflecting in the water. So that's what we also do. Paint the reflection in the water. And in the background you see also some light spots with organy and yellow. Maybe some lights. I think we're nearly finished now. Thanks Ingrid, this looks really impressive. Well, first practice this one and then maybe it's an idea.. to go outside and try it like Maris did, work outside. And than you can work in the same way, start in the background.. look at the dark spots and end up with the details. Great, thank you very much and see you next time!