In 2011, during the final six months I lived undercover in North Korea. I was born and raised I live in America, their other enemy. Since 2002, I had visited And I had come to realize or to understand the place the only option was total immersion. So I posed as a teacher and a missionary at an all-male university in Pyongyang. The Pyongyang University was founded by Evangelical Christians to educate the sons without proselytizing, The students were 270 young men, of the most isolated and brutal When I arrived, they became my students. 2011 was a special year, marking the 100th anniversary of the birth Kim Il-Sung. To celebrate the occasion, the regime and sent students off to the fields to build the DPRK's much-heralded ideal as the world's most powerful My students were the only ones North Korea is a gulag posing as a nation. Everything there Every book, every newspaper article, there is just one subject. The flowers are named after him, the mountains are carved with his slogans. Every citizen wears the badge Even their calendar system begins The school was a heavily guarded Teachers could only leave on group outings Even then, our trips were limited celebrating the Great Leader. The students were not allowed or communicate with their parents. Their days were meticulously mapped out, was devoted to honoring Lesson plans had to meet the approval every class was recorded and reported on, and every conversation, overheard. Every blank space was covered with the like everywhere else in North Korea. We were never allowed As students of science and technology, but they did not know They had never heard Facebook, Twitter -- none of those things And I could not tell them. I went there looking for truth. But where do you even start my students' day-to-day realities, and even my own position were all built on lies? I started with a game. We played &quot;Truth and Lie.&quot; A volunteer would write a sentence and the other students had to guess whether it was a truth or a lie. Once a student wrote, &quot;I visited and everyone shouted, &quot;Lie!&quot; They all knew this wasn't possible. Virtually no North Korean is allowed Even traveling within their own country I had hoped that this game would reveal because they lie so often and so easily, whether about the mythical or the strange claim that they cloned The difference between truth and lies It took me a while to understand they lie to shield their system or they were taught lies, Or, at moments, they lied out of habit. But if all they have ever known were lies, how could we expect them to be otherwise? Next, I tried to teach them essay writing. But that turned out to be Essays are about coming up with and making an evidence-based These students, however, were and they obeyed. In their world, critical thinking I also gave them the weekly assignment to anybody. It took a long time, but eventually to their mothers, their friends, Although those were just homework, and would never reach my students slowly began to reveal They wrote that they were fed They were worried about their future. In those letters, they rarely ever I was spending all of my time We all ate meals together, I often called them gentlemen, They blushed at the mention of girls. And I came to adore them. And watching them open up was deeply moving. But something also felt wrong. During those months I often wondered if the truth would, I wanted so much to tell them the truth, of their country and of the outside world, where Arab youth were turning using the power of social media, where everyone except them was which wasn't worldwide after all. But for them, the truth was dangerous. By encouraging them to run after it, of persecution, of heartbreak. When you're not allowed to express you become good at reading In one of their personal letters to me, why I always called them gentlemen. It was because I was wishing them On my last day in December of 2011, the day Kim Jong-Il's death was announced, their world shattered. I had to leave without a proper goodbye. But I think they knew Once, toward the end of my stay, &quot;Professor, we never think of you Our circumstances are different, We want you to know that we truly Today, if I could respond which is of course impossible, I would tell them this: &quot;My dear gentlemen, It's been a bit over three years And now, you must be 22 -- At our final class, I asked you The only wish you expressed, in all those months we spent together, was for me to speak to you in Korean. Just once. I was there to teach you English; you knew it wasn't allowed. But I understood then, you wanted I called you my gentlemen, but I don't know if being gentle is a good thing. I don't want you to lead a revolution -- let some other young person do it. The rest of the world might casually some sort of North Korean Spring, but I don't want you to do anything risky, because I know in your world, I don't want to imagine If my attempts to reach you have I would rather you forget me. Become soldiers of your Great Leader, You once asked me if I thought and I could not answer truthfully then. But I know why you asked. I know that it was important for you the one who has seen the world declare your city as the most beautiful. I know hearing that would make but no, I don't find Not because it's monotone and concrete, but because of what it symbolizes: a monster that feeds off where citizens are soldiers and slaves. All I see there is darkness. But it's your home, so I cannot hate it. And I hope instead that you, will one day help make it beautiful. Thank you. (Applause)