Poison. In an animal or plant, it can be a villain, an untraceable murder tool. But Here are the ten deadliest poisons in the world. #10. Brodifacoum Rats! If a place has a vermin problem, of the disease-spreading rodents. One of the which can take out a large colony of rats a powerful anticoagulant poison, has become one Not only does it make it difficult from the blood in the blood for up to nine months. It's not a But it can target larger animals too. Brodifacoum is powerful enough that it can take aren't safe either. Any human who ingests it can with infusions of Vitamin K and possibly will need to continue until the poison is it's caught before heavy bleeding begins. The Most cases involve people accidentally with it. But this potent poison isn't something Neither is this next one - but that #9. Tetrodotoxin The sushi chef carefully slices the fish. valuable fish with sloppy cuts - he's the diner. That's because he's slicing pufferfish, which contains the lethal tetrodotoxin - one While the poison is found in other animals it's actually produced by bacteria - and it poison basically shuts down the nervous And if it affects a human, the odds are grim. It can enter the bloodstream by being eaten, paralysis, trouble breathing, vomiting, seizures, Death comes within six hours, while the victim is There is no known antidote, but some people aid - keeping them alive until the poison fully - but the majority of those infected by You may be surprised by just how #8. Cyanide It's oddly sweet, almost like a marzipan into an apricot pit as a child. But don't get actually packing a deadly punch. It's loaded poisonous in many forms. It'll take a lot of which is unlikely - except when some health nutrition-packed food! But most of us consume But that doesn't mean cyanide will stay harmless. When processed, cyanide gains a much more powerful are two of the deadlier forms, and can affect the turned into a gas, hydrogen cyanide, it can become large group of people. Fortunately, an antidote is neutralize cyanide and turn it into a compound the perks of a much more common poison - it's This next poison also comes #7. Strychnine The Strychnos nux-vomica tree is a nice, mid-sized but it has another name - the poison nut the deadly poison strychnine, a powerful nerve fibers in the spinal cord, which makes The poison is a defense mechanism for the tree, Birds will eat them whole, poop but mammals aren't likely to - so Strychnine is deadly - but it also has its uses. It's highly poisonous, and as such makes an out mid-sized or even large pests like gophers has fallen out of favor because the potent it - including pets. For humans, it causes and respiratory failure in high doses. While for recovery is neutralizing it or removing it This next poison is so deadly, #6. Ricin The castor oil plant has many uses, but its a carbohydrate-binding protein that's It can kill easily by being inhaled, injected, or or through minor wounds on the skin. It causes and can cause damage to the gastrointestinal it can start to affect just about every It's deadly enough that it even World War I was notorious for its use The United States looked into Ricin as one of it or using it as a dusting weapon. The but both the US and the USSR wound up keeping never used. While it was never used in war, in Russia and Eastern Europe, and Ricin powder While right now treatment is limited, the US and And now we're getting into the top five - #5. VX It looks like engine oil, but this packing only one thing - killing power. When they discovered it worked a little too well. It and causes muscle contractions and respiratory it was eventually taken out of development as a powers realized it could be used for something And VX became world-famous in 2017. Kim Jong-Nam was the half-brother of the notorious North Korea and was traveling to a resort in They splashed him with a liquid and exposed He was taken to a hospital, but died soon after - As VX is a liquid, the best way to avoid and injection with sedatives, but only standard You may be tempted to give the source of this #4. Batrachotoxin. They're among the most striking creatures in the with brightly colored patches. But they're the world - their skin is coated with a potent peripheral nervous system in a way that blocks causing permanent and fatal paralysis. Not heart muscles and leads to cardiac arrest. But that doesn't keep some These frogs are most famous by another name - residents have been using them for a long time - the poisonous skin coating and use it to coat a It turns a mildly annoying weapon into a deadly one of the deadliest in the world, some success in tetrodotoxin, which is found in puffer fish and To find the source of this next #3. Maitotoxin Algae blooms in the sea can provide a pop create some of the most deadly toxins on the creates a compound that has one of the This makes it a massive challenge for scientists is a big problem for anyone who encounters this channels in the cells, leading to heart And it packs a lot of power in a small package. Testing on this toxin is limited, But results indicate that less than one nanogram No one knows the exact dose that will kill a human nature would be enough. So be careful around not everything swimming around is vulnerable. fish native to coral reefs are immune to the But what is the deadliest toxin around? #2. Botulinum Toxin This toxin hides where you least expect it a case of food poisoning linked to sausage for the first time. Six people died, and Future incidents revealed that it was likely to A tiny bacteria that can kill an it's a neurotoxin that affects muscles and nerves it only grows and activates when it's starved of But it's turned out to have some unexpected uses. During World War II, studies but it was never released in combat. It would find toxin is highly effective at causing paralysis, it can be used to control disorders causing would have its breakout moment when it became one Regular injections create localized paralysis But one deadly substance outclasses it all. In fact, a single drop packs enough deadly #1. Polonium Bacteria. Neurotoxins. Plant extracts. All can approach the poison level of one chemical is one of the rarest elements in the world. and it has one key characteristic - it is comes toxicity to humans. While it has some any use of it is extremely risky, because it takes How little, exactly? Estimates are that as little as seven trillionths a whole gram might be able to kill an entire there is no effective treatment or antidote and agent Alexander Livinenko found out the hard agents. The good news is, you're not likely to be produced from uranium, but it would take tons A procedure to irradiate bismuth with neutrons but it remains one of the trickiest elements are nuclear-powered nations. Let's For more on one of the most notorious poisons, or watch this video instead.