MALE SPEAKER: Hello, everyone. Welcome to today's talk. We have a very, very And I couldn't be more pleased. In thinking about an I quickly realized going to beat his own words. So I'm going to share a couple over the years. And as I do so, think about he wrote them. So here's one. The bottom line is that many the prices in today's markets I get no sense, at all, that managers backing stocks and internet prices at which they would be sells. When do you think AUDIENCE: [INAUDIBLE]. MALE SPEAKER: This was '99. So yeah, there's something of what our guest writes. And here's one more. This is from the last 10 years. In the end, buyers took out given their incomes and Such mortgages would land them and would leave as conditions did which they invariably do. Anyway you slice it, have dropped in recent years Logic based? Perhaps. Cycle induced and exacerbated? I'd say so. Certainly, mortgage We'll see in a few was intelligent risk taking or When was this? AUDIENCE: [INAUDIBLE]. MALE SPEAKER: This was 2007. And we are a few And we've seen what happened. So I'm sure all of you want mind today. And we are so fortunate that So without any further please join me in welcoming [APPLAUSE] HOWARD MARKS: Well and [INAUDIBLE] puts a that I have to be right. So it's hard. But I'm really I want to thank [INAUDIBLE] And he's worked it go well for you and for me. And I hope it'll be And because I get the that fun is important. Right? AUDIENCE: Absolutely. HOWARD MARKS: So there aren't that are worth doing As you know, I called the most important thing. And the reason it has that title in my client's office. And I would say the most is controlling risk. And then five minutes later, thing is to buy at a low price. And five minutes later, I would is to act as a contrarian. So back in 2003, a memo called The I listed 19 things. Each of which was the And then I used that. I couldn't think of a So I used the same Interestingly, some of That goes to show you that one's and should still evolve. And I know that [INAUDIBLE] went to see Charlie Munger this week at age 91. And I'm sure he's still So I'm going to Now I should tell you, and I but I write memos And I'll refer to a lot of And they're all available on And the price is right. They're all free. And I've been sending I started in 1990. And I got a letter Warren Buffet in 2009 or '10. And he said, if I'll give you a So I had been planning I retired from work. But Buffet's promise caused me And what the book is is-- OK, about half. So what the book is, of my investment philosophy. And as it says in the forward I took the forward-- I I never read the forwards books. But I took the forward And what it says designed to tell you And it's not designed to tell or to try to make it easy. And in fact, my highest to make it clear how hard it is. Investing is very kind of, counter intuitive. And it, kind of, turns back And there are no So what I tried is teach people how to think. Now the thoughts they should But how to think, I think, And it's my invest philosophy. And I wasn't born with You'll hear from if you're interested in I started reading prospectuses Or you know, at 13, I which I didn't do. But in fact, when I was getting 23 in 1969 so I know you I didn't know what I had studied finance at Wharton And I knew I wanted to But I wasn't very specific. So I interviewed in five Large consulting firms, accounting firm, investment management, ended up in the Why? Because I had a at city in the investment liked it. I had fun, right. That's a good reason. So I went there. And by the way, was nothing magical about business at that time. It paid the same All six jobs that I was Between 12.5 and 14 And there were no famous Investing was not There were no So I just did it I liked the people. And I thought that the investing So I didn't have a philosophy And I had some things I But I think that your as opposed to somebody Descartes or Locke that, you learn his philosophy. You might learn a philosophy But that's not your philosophy. Your philosophy will of what you have been and parents and your experiences you about the things and how they have So I developed my philosophy. It might seem like I started ago-- 25 years-- but I over two decades, at that time. So I think that the integration is essential. Now I prepared a few And basically, the to illustrate where Talk to you about some of So I call it origins And I hope you'll So first of all, not in but, hopefully, in order to try Fooled by Randomness, by Now who here has read that? All right, more people And I think it's very important. I think it's an excellent important ideas. Now don't tell but I tell all the people I the most important badly written important book that I think it's not very clear. And I think it's there's no attempt But I think a lot of the ideas profound, in my opinion. So among other things, is that in investing And if you look at without randomness where you'll get confused draw the proper inferences For example, just a brief and they report a great The scientist who thinks that like the world of physics great return, that means But in truth, it might be and got lucky. Why? Because there's a lot of When I went to Wharton I remember learning was Under Uncertainty, by became, as I recall, And I learned a couple Number one, that you whether a decision It's very important. Most people don't Totally counter intuitive. But the truth is, where there's randomness if you build a bridge then you must assume a mistake that it to build the bridge that way. But in the real world of good decisions fail Bad decisions work all the time. The investment business is right for the wrong reason. Made a bad decision, it didn't but they got lucky. And they were bailed So this is very important. And this is the basic theme Taleb's first book. Since then, he has written became more famous, but I And he's written a book And that one didn't get famous. But I think that this book is it if you have an interest and how the world works. So as I say, the book is all And basically, even if you many other things This is very, very important. We talked earlier at the most important Well, of course, I'll never But one very important is that you should not act as are the things that will happen. Again, in the world of you could probably And the electrical that if he turns on a the light will go on there subject to physics. Not in the world of investing. So for every There is a range of There may be one where which one is the most likely. And if we draw a that may be the highest The most likely single doesn't mean it's And the reason we don't have that look like this look like this is because a And it's very, very that, number one, there are So you have to allow for them. And number two, the thing is far from sure to happen. So that's very key. There's a professor at who put it so simply. He said risk means more things And again, this is In the economic world, make decisions called expected value, which every possible outcome. First of all, of in terms of a single outcome. You think in terms of So you take every-- if so many-- you take you multiply it by the you sum the results, get something called from that course of action. And you choose your based on the highest And that sounds like a But what if the course of has some outcomes that you Then you may not do it. You may not do the highest because it has some you Who here is willing was right 98% of the time? You know, for example. So you may elect to do bike rather than skydiving, even exhilarating 98% of the time. Anyway, so the point is as I about [INAUDIBLE] from learning from I realized that should Lots of things that should And even if they they fail to happen on schedule. So the thing that the economist should happen this year And you got to live three One of my favorite the six foot tall crossing the stream that was We can't live by the averages. We can't say, well, I'm We got to survive And if you're a have to survive long of your decision And you can't count on I always remind is not the same as And if you bear that I think it helps. So Taleb and the role of Then John Kenneth Galbraith. John Kenneth Galbraith, who are not familiar was an American economist. Died around '05, I think, maybe of about 98 and he was He was a little He was somewhere between free But he was what we call when it was OK to say that word. But he was very, very smart. And he was not famous But he played a lot of And he was a diplomat. But he wrote some And one of them is Of Financial Euphoria. And I like thin books. And his is thin. Especially the ones he wrote of his life were very thin. So I enjoyed those. But the short and I'll recommend that to you. And one of the things two classes of forecasters. The ones who don't know and don't know. Now I don't believe in People who forecast of economies, and And I don't think to be a superior investor aided by macro forecasts. So am I saying that the No, I'm not saying that. The forecasters are often right. Last year, GDP grew 2%. Many forecasters forecast that That's called extrapolation. And usually, in economics, Usually, the future looks So usually, the people who of the current are right. The only problem is they Because let's take the forecast two something A growth rate of cooked into the prices If the growth rate turns everybody who forecasted But security prices because that two was anticipated and So all those people who are So that's correct. So extrapolation Forecasts that work all the time, but Logically, am I saying that No. The forecasts that make of radical change. If everybody's predicting and if I predict minus 2 and or I predict six and I'll make a lot of money. So forecasts which are not which are radically different are potentially very Of course, they do not have And if they're cost you a lot of money. If everybody else thinks and you predict six and you're probably going to have and lost a lot of money. So deviant forecasts, are potentially very very hard to make them. It's very hard to It's very hard to make the And somebody at lunch called the value of forecasts. And in one, there was and then there was the value of And in one of those, I the recent history, of the Every six months, the publishes the results on GDP growths, CPI, the whatever it might be, They do it consistently. And they ask ask, like, 30 So it shows, of the time when it's because they predicted changed. Once in awhile, something And invariably, But the problem is, if other forecasts see that that person always and never was right So of course, if you're from a forecaster, the doesn't tell you anything. The views of that be of any value to you unless And nobody's right consistently So the bottom line for is not valuable. And that's something that So we don't know and randomness will play a And randomness is, by Number three, The Losers This is very interesting. Anybody here know the A few people. TRW used to be a And now it's known And there was a He was the R. It was Thompson, And he was the R in And Si Ramo wrote a book. And it was about Who here plays tennis? OK, this is good because as very few people But what Ramo said is that there players. If you look at Pete Sampras, how do they win? The winning champion wins by hitting winning shots. Hits shots that the They're either so well placed, and hard that the opponent And if Nadal hits a shot, which then his opponent can because it doesn't have So the championship tennis You play tennis, right? How do you win? Do you win? AUDIENCE: Sometimes. HOWARD MARKS: How do you win? AUDIENCE: If I win, it's HOWARD MARKS: That's right. The amateur tennis we win not by hitting winners And we believe that if we can and just get it over our opponent can only do it 19. We believe that we'll and eventually he'll hit it We'll win the point. But we'll win the point So there are obviously So the same is So Charlie Ellis wrote an And he said he thought that tennis is a winners game. It's won by winners. He thought amateur It's won by the people Charlie thinks or thought that So the best way to is by not hitting losers. Now I believe also that Not as much as Charlie believes Charlie believes that because the market is are priced right. I believe there I just think it's hard advantage of them. And you have to be to take advantage of them And the reason that the is because he is and practiced and steady that if he does and this with this hip and with his wrist that the He doesn't worry about or distraction. He's so well schooled. In fact, in scoring they keep track of something And the reason they is because there are so few. The pro doesn't make a We make unforced So in order to survive, So the point is, if you're you have to decide am I good or should I emphasize of losers in my approach? So I say here that the is what makes so important because in investing, especially if we do the right thing and elbow, we're not going And then the fourth origin that was my meeting with Mike So in '78, I got a call And he said, there's some guy and he deals with something Can you figure out because one of our clients had portfolio. And in that day, It was unknown. So I met with Mike He came to see me He was looking for clients. He was just starting off in And there was a great meeting. And he explained to me there's only one way to go. AAA bonds are bonds that There companies are They have prudent The outlook is good. Everything's perfect. So if everything's perfect, And if it can't get better, that It doesn't have to get worse. But if there is a change, it's And if you've bought a that it's perfect and it gets So that's important. On the other hand, he said, and they survive, there's which is upgrade. Now that's not exactly can default and go bankrupt. But the ones that survive and the surprises are So this is very important. Again, this is about trying to And if you're buying bonds that of, it's hard to because such low expectations Now let me digress for is really important. How do you make The people who don't you do it is by buying good stock in a good company, That is not the The secret for is buying things for So if you buy a high quality there's a guy on the radio. When I lived in LA, I listened And there was a guy He said, well, if you go into a buy the stock. He couldn't be more determines the success of an but what he pays for it. And if you buy a high quality you're in big trouble. You can buy a very But if you pay less chances are you're So the book says-- chapter three is value. Figuring out what the But chapter four says is the relationship So let's assume that you're If you pay more than If you get it for less, So it was very, very important where the surprises were And if you buy the bonds of B such low expectations, easy for there to be Now how can I prove to you The answer is that if you to bonds in those years, what bond? Quote, fails to possess of a desirable investment. In other words, it's Now, I drove here from And if I take you and I offer it to you don't need that car anymore. When I'm done here, If I say to you, my car, what is the one before saying yes or no? Price. You get an A. You get it's a good buy at It's a bad buy at another price. Moody is now saying are a bad by without So in other words, at which a company that is worth investing in. And by the way, before I turned I was part of the to buy the stocks of And I explained to the bonds of Hewlett Instruments, Merk Lilly Xerox, Cola, and Procter &amp; Gamble, and and you held them until '73, Why? Because they were overpriced. The average stock has traded at 16 times These were trading Why? Because they were so good. Everybody says these Nothing can go wrong. So it doesn't matter And if you pay 80 or So here we are, again, experience invest in the best you lose a lot of money. Then you go to the high you invest in the worst you make most money. So it's an instructive lesson and you learn from But the key words Right? This little trap to catch those three words. If you buy single-B then you're in big trouble. But obviously, true that if a company about survive, it'll it'll pay off at maturity. And maybe in the meantime over if they survive. So what that convinced the high-yield bond business at a great point in time spend all their time the ones that don't survive. Not finding the ones that but just excluding the ones And that's what we did. Now I'll tell you an Around '05 or '06, the bible Security Analysis written And they wrote the But Ben Graham was at Columbia and, in many ways, And he and David Dodd And they updated it in '40 And the '40 edition is edition. So in '05 McGraw Hill, said they want to And they turned it over a great debt investor and a professor-- I can't What? AUDIENCE: [INAUDIBLE] Greenwald. HOWARD MARKS: [INAUDIBLE]. That's right. Bruce Greenwald at Columbia. So you should be up here. I'll sit down. And they turned it to bring out this revision. And they, in turn, asked And they asked me to So that meant I had to go and to update it. And I came across And it was and it verified It said that bond investing What does that mean? What it means is, I you know how bonds work, but You give me $100, and 5% interest every year, and 20 years. Fixed income it's called because The contract is fixed. The return is fixed, So all 5% bonds that None will pay six. None will pay four. All the ones that What does that mean? It means of the doesn't matter I'm going to like this one. I like that one a lot. That pays five. And I like that one. That pays five. It doesn't make any difference. You're not going to among the bonds that pay. The only thing that the ones that don't pay. So if there are 100 They'll all pay the same thing. It doesn't matter which The only thing that the 10 that don't pay. Negative art. The greatness of comes not from what you buy So I thought that I should have that up here, too. But anyway, Milken So Taleb says that of a range of possibilities influenced by randomness. And Galbraith says the And Ellis says that if the it's better to work to avoid And Milken says that holding is the key in bond investing. So if you put them how you get the philosophy These were my origins. So when we started Oak Tree exactly 20 years ago, we wrote And here it is. We published it. We were a bunch of guys who for most of the previous 10 And we left there as a group. And we started Oak Tree. So for a philosophy, I believe And like learning says today right So we wrote down our philosophy. We published it. We never changed a word since. And the clients like So these were the six tenets So the first one says that is risk control. And we tell the clients we in investing, the most making a lot of money. It's not beating the market. It's not being in The most important thing That's our job. That's what we'll do for you. And the clients to invest in our asset classes There are other people on controlling risk. And they have better and worst results Our clients want Number two, we have an So we say we don't try for the you know. The first memo that I'm sure you remember talked about a guy who was head a terrible year. And he said, well, If you want to be in the top you have to be willing I have no interest in And I don't care about I want to be above the over the long term. And there's a funny bit of math. This will confound yourself-- data scientists? This will confound the data So in that first memo, I from that money manager with a who told me right about was the juxtaposition me to write that first memo. He told me that for his pension fund had never or below the 47th percentile. So it was solidly in every year for 14 years. So let's see. 27. 47. The average of What percentile do was in for the whole 14 years? AUDIENCE: [INAUDIBLE]. HOWARD MARKS: Four. Four. And if you think about it, Why the fourth? Not the 37th. And the answer is that they really blow up. So we said we want consistency. We want to be a little bit Maybe we'll pop up to when the markets are is rewarded. But we think that over we'll be very And our clients of bad experiences, for them, is very important. So then macro-forecasting is We do not make our decisions as I explained to you. We all have opinions. We-- our official dictum is that You just shouldn't And I think this You know, Mark Twain what you don't know that It's what you know for So we try to avoid to those macro opinions. And finally, we don't do a is very, very hard to do. We do long term investing are underpriced. So that's the Oak You could see how the origins went through fit into that. And in fact, it's all distilled that if we avoid the take care of themselves. And if we can make a large weed out the have-- just think of We'll have a lot to do which is exceptional if So a lot of money managers and say we will get into the great right hand tail. I think it's hard to do And if you aim for the right you end up in the What we say is we'll just And if we can do and we pretty much have, OK, good, very good, great, the average will be very good. And that's basically So lastly, I'll just leave you greatest adages. Not mine but the over my career and that And they're all First of all, what the wise man does in the end. In every trend in investing, If you find an asset which is If everybody else figures then it will go up. Then people see And more people jump on the band And the last person And the first person to It's the same asset. Just at different prices. And as people say, then the imitator, So that's another way Number two, never forget who drowned crossing was five feet deep on average. Kind of like that skydiver It's not sufficient, you want to live your life, We have to survive So we have to be able to survive Your portfolio has to be set so you won't be shaken And then finally, being is indistinguishable And yet, that's because, as I said that are supposed to happen And they absolutely So you have to be able of your decisions is So all of these something about modesty rather than cock sureness, which So with that, [INAUDIBLE], And we have a little time left. And I'd love to That's what I'm here for. MALE SPEAKER: Thank you, Howard. This was fascinating. So we are open for questions. Please raise your hand, and AUDIENCE: The thing you said in the beginning the you can come up You can think about your So you've been focusing And maybe humans are, kind of, to find winners. Maybe that's what But if everybody in the world maybe the wise investor do you know what I mean? Sort of self-balancing. HOWARD MARKS: Sure. Well, number one, I have to worry about or to wise because we're Charlie Munger-- Charlie Munger this week. One of the great gave me was from the said for that which a man What do most people They want to get rich. Very few people think that comes from prudence and caution. Most people think it comes from will put them on easy street. But you're absolutely right. And there are times behave in a prudent When is it? It's in a crash when security Right? That's the time to turn So Buffett says with which others the greater the must conduct our own affairs. And there are times when And that's when everything's AUDIENCE: So you said hat forecasts, right? But actually the macros can Like if you have an I mean, 99% of be gone or something like that. So how do you even HOWARD MARKS: OK. So now I know I'm not coming because the people are too is one of the great traps. I say that we don't invest on But you have to have an when you predict the fortunes And what I would to do is it's one thing and we're going to because it will do survive if it goes to 30, But it's another thing I think it's going to invest in this to be great if it goes to 110 So the question is, how And we try to looks pretty much like the for the thing that things And I can't really be much By the way, all this You know, there are no rules. There are no algorithms. There are no formulas None of this is any good unless has superior judgment. And the first says the most important thing Most people think To be a superior investor, you You have to think different But in being different, So the first level He says, this is a great The second level thinker but it's not as great as We better sell the stock. That's the difference an average person and a By the way, most people Yes, sir. AUDIENCE: Do you think adequately protect the HOWARD MARKS: Well this The role of the index fund. A lot of people say, I'm going I'm going to invest And they are confused. What an index fund does is in line with the index. So the point is because called the efficient can beat the market. It's true. Most mutual funds do Most mutual fund investors to be in an index fund. And in fact, most active impose fees that And that is one of that most active investment So the index fund, which is yes it reduce, that you fail to keep It also, of course, that you outperformed the index. So you trade away the two sides for surety that you But it doesn't eliminate It eliminates the risk of What you have to keep in mind loses money every time Why? Because there's no value And by the way, index for the average amateur the average amateur can't beat the market can't find anybody who can beat the market. But the only thing that it's a risk-less trade. You eliminate what we But you retain the risk AUDIENCE: So you've of these business HOWARD MARKS: Yes. AUDIENCE: And with and with a number of about this subject about and how many managers do you think the doing anything different HOWARD MARKS: there's a minor movement It's not groundswell. There's still lots of money in where there's 2% a year of fees But I think there's more And that's probably appropriate. But I'll just turn i around. I'll leave you with a question. Why can't people Because the market's And market prices And most people can't and act on the times when the That's why most people That's what I learned at And I think it's pretty true. So the reason for the is the markets efficiency. The markets efficiency comes of thousands of trying to find the bargains. What happens when So when the interest declines because and turn to passive investing quick studying the resume their deviation Then it becomes possible So it's really paradoxical and, But I don't think we But in theory, there comes a is being paid to that active investing Yes, sir. AUDIENCE: Thanks, Howard, To talk about the difference the other dimension is time. So how do you estimate the time HOWARD MARKS: You never do. You never know. See, what he's saying-- again, And what we want to find things where the and the price is here. So his question is, how that it's going to take And the answer is On occasion, there are And one catalyst would be the If a bond is going and it's selling at 60 it's going to go it's going to pay then the existence is going to force the Another catalyst today is They find the company. It's selling. They think the It's selling here because and they're not doing So they go in. They foment trouble. They try to get a board seat. They try to force the to course, to cause, the price So there are a few But generally speaking, You hope-- you would The price is here. You hope it'll convert. But there's no way And that's the reason why being is [INAUDIBLE] from can take a long time. AUDIENCE: Would you always when you find a gap? HOWARD MARKS: There I mean, it happens. Most of what we do is in And there are more catalysts than in the equity world. You find a stock. How many stocks you think go after a year? 10? 20? 50? 100? No more. There are thousands of stocks. So most stocks are never AUDIENCE: Curious what it was like when you for Oak Tree in the early days. I would imagine that today But I would imagine was it a lot different HOWARD MARKS: Well by the it wasn't that hard because But when I started raising 1978 junk bonds-- 90% of like Google had a against any bond investing below which is BBB. And of course, Moody said So that was very, But what you have to do is You see, you have to You have to go say to because nobody else is. Because nobody else is doing You make no money that everybody wants to do. You make money by that nobody wants to do who And if you say that message to maybe 10 jump on board. After it works for a come on, like the screen says. But hopefully, not too extreme. But the point is it was And in certain it was even harder because in the thinking is a little more I always thought that if I and I say you should do they'd call the man in the They don't understand. You know, I think that understand the value and of being a maverick. But in many countries, So that's an But then we started Oak That was at Citi. In '85, I switched from Citi to And in '88, we brought out Now we're not that have a risk of default. We're investing in bonds or sure to be. And people would say, possibly make money of bankrupt companies? And we had to explain to them doesn't get paid the interest they have a claim against And they exert that claim in And in bankruptcy, and over generalize, the And the old creditors And if you bought an ownership for--what-- for less than it's And we've made about 23% a in distressed debt before So that's pretty astronomical. Why? Because from time to you get to buy things for And in fact because from the bankruptcy, them to buy them for a lot So it's very challenging. But you can't But if you can and tell the story clearly, then you get some clients. And then, if you then you get more clients. AUDIENCE: Thank you, One question. Buffet, in '99, said that if he of money he would be able and beat the market would use the word guaranteed. I presume he meant a lot of inefficiencies in the One thing that kind of surprises willing to work in an institution, the word is kind of shut out, even [INAUDIBLE] with a lot seems like the big institution Are there such inefficiencies to the institutions but the hard can find inefficiencies HOWARD MARKS: Well I think be active in distressed debt. He can't get enough bonds to committee table or have a voice. But he can still You know, so what I was saying is that if you get some accounts you'll get more accounts. So that goes a little say is that if you you'll get more money. And eventually, if you let if you get more money, And this is one of the So you have to halt that. But the truth of the matter has an advantage as long as Many people are not because in you manage when you get to take on more money. But you have to before it starts running Now, for the data I always like to point out that and I developed a new to know how far it would and run it until That's called But as an investor with clients I don't have the luxury of So I can't add more. People always say the limit on how much And I can't find out by I have to stop this One of the that if you stop then you never find out But that's what we have to do. So you have to stop. And I believe that has a big brain, and a little and exceptional insight But that's a pretty And I don't think that Buffett's to everybody in this room. AUDIENCE: Do you see any in the market today the was valued in the past? HOWARD MARKS: Yes, I do What we call the extends from what's The risk free rate is the on the 30 day treasury bill. And of course, if you can then in order to tie up your year treasury you want four. And to get it 10 And if you can get 10 years on then in order to go into a has some credit risk, And to go into a high and so forth. So there's a kind of a process makes things line up in terms but always pegged from Today, the risk So everything that I just has had a parallel So before the mentioned about the fact All my money was in All the money that I had outside And I was getting 6 1/2% for six year maturities. I was getting income and safety. Today, you have a choice. Income or safety because are highly safe pay no income. You know, and if conduct an experiment. Go to Fidelity or Vanguard and go online and look at and what is the current net And you'll see that for treasuries, and maybe the yield is zero. So just think. The guy is watching the He gets a statement He opens it up, and it says the He grabs the phone. He calls the 800 number. He says get me out of that and put me in the And he becomes a high He has no idea why. He doesn't know what He doesn't understand He doesn't understand how to But he's seduced by And all around the today, people are They don't like the available on safe instruments. They're going for the gusto. They're going for And they're doing it mindlessly. And I promised you I'd I forgot to do that. But if you go back, I wrote one To The Bottom. And I talked about people are, number one, two, not sufficiently risk And when people do becomes a risky place. And that's why Buffett with which others the greater the we must conduct our own affairs. And that is going on because people can't get a good They're going into the risky You know, so there's It's like an auction. Now if you want to buy a an auction, and the who pays the highest price. But in the investment world, Well sometimes you but sometimes you So there's a bond that's going I say I demand 7% interest. And this fellow says, And that guy says, I say I want protective that the company can't do worthiness. He says I'll do it And that guy says, I'll What happens? The bond is issued at And that's the And anybody who probably could be And that's going on now. Not to the same terrible extent But you got to be careful today. Oak Tree's model for has been move forward Caution has to be a of everybody's actions today. Well thank you very And I hope you enjoyed it. And when I think of more MALE SPEAKER: Thank you so much. [APPLAUSE]