Hello Piano Cats, my name is Denis Zhdanov and today's video is super important, because I will give you three in your piano playing and how to significantly Tip I: one of the most common issues when people hold their elbows too close to the body. And the Obviously this wave plane doesn't allow you to reach the best quality. Here is a if they are tensed at the so place your elbows close to your body and hold your hands parallel to each other then push your shoulders all the way up to your ears yeah that looks then from this overstressed position moving your hands in different so I release my shoulders and I move my elbows, my hands in different directions. Do that a couple of times and you will immediately feel a comfortable no, elbows and shoulders. Now, Tip II life-changing. Because this idea is so that many people might have never so the point is, that many people work twice playing a note on piano. We obviously use a muscle effort to hit the key, to move it, and it seems to pull the finger away. Thus, The problem is, that if you play in that and make much more It would make sense, if the keys would stuck in the movement to lift them up. But the So the key (surprise!..) it goes up on its And now a million-dollar question: how we can use that actually? In fact in finger completely and swiftly instead of I just need a very good synchronisation between fingers. I relax my finger immediately when I hit the next key Of course it may take some time to get But believe me, if you master this technique, you may play significantly faster with much less effort. So to sum up: you need only to when they are done, and the key will push And Tip III finally, which is actually connected to the previous one: always relax fingers which don't work at the moment. For common issue, even if you look at some bit of tension in your hand slows you so you get tired much faster. I have noticed as much you practice some spot. If I have feel myself less confident. This happens with danger danger of failure or So in order to master this technique start playing really literally control each finger. the keyboard. Being lazy when you don't when you feel that you can do that raise tempo really gradually so you can always control whether you're relaxed or not this is actually another very common because most of people when they But then they suddenly start to and activate just other sets of muscles. So some musicians even state that because you are basically doing two very but only if you use your slow tempo to way of playing, and then raise your comfortable feelings. So at the end you yourself much more confident. When I have and couldn't perform for nearly a year, I technique nearly from scratch. While adjustments in my body, in how I feel influences also the way I think and feel true discovery for me. Once I've seen a playing a Chopin polonaise and one technique, why she doesn't control her sometimes, that even established physiology of the piano performance. precision and artistic value of this actually happen here is that Martha her hands whenever she can. Let's watch she releases her hands swiftly after the While she approaches each chord her focuses them in the very last moment Some music teachers even think that it's normal for gets better with the age, when they get but most probably they will carry a which will limit them To illustrate what I mean when she was 8 What allows her to play with such an Please mention a tension-free body and with an immediate release, and the fingers which are completely relaxed This became possible not just because Although she was, but that's not the point The point is that she had got a teacher who found a fun and effective way to So thanks for watching this video, if you found don't forget to like it. Write in And the exclusive offer of the day is: subscribe to this channel right now and get +5 points to the speed of your passages... for Have fun playing piano and hopefully to see you next time!