Good afternoon and welcome. I'm Belinda Batten, for Strategic Initiatives It's wonderful to see so many people here both here state of the art learning innovation Thank you so much for coming. This is OSU's first Global Futures Forum. And why are we doing this? Oregon State is a comprehensive research We'll always offer host many disciplines, and conduct From the very basic to the most applied. But we have a goal, in doing large scale team based, that contributes to scalable solutions of climate science, robotics, clean energy Our strategy swimming against the current higher education is to focus. We're going to do it by bringing together humanists, We're going to use advanced tools and artificial intelligence. And we're going to infuse how we do it to have big impacts when they leave us The Global Futures Forum is an opportunity to highlight Given our focus and trends There is no better topic for our first This morning of two of our alumni, Jensen Thank you. That was great timing you all. Thank you. As well as the groundbreaking of and that will house a supercomputer that will enable our faculty and students to tackle some of the world's And just coincidentally, one of those alums is founder driving access that is a guy, We are very excited to begin. But before we do, I'll pause for a moment related to the right of speakers With the tragic situation in the Middle number of demonstrations of late I want to state clearly that OSCE freedom of speech, In fact, we well, we welcome protests. However, such demonstrations with the ability of other speakers or the ability of listeners This afternoon's program policies, and as such, it is entitled A person whose actions interfere right to be heard will be warned by staff. If the person continues to interfere, and may be held accountable Thank you for your understanding. So here is our program. We'll begin with a conversation president Jayathi Murthy, Then, after a brief overview of with a wonderful group of experts economy and workforce and creativity We have a packed schedule this afternoon programing from now until 5 p.m. and then a reception afterward. We don't have a formal break my husband told me I was a little bit Instead, to use the restrooms or take care of Keeping in mind in between the main sessions. It's now my great pleasure to introduce and Nvidia founder and CEO Jensen Jayathi Murthy and OSU Provost and executive Thank you. So as I with these two brilliant people, is go to an OSU, So as you know, you can hear it OSU, You can go to class on the beaver bus. You can buy things with your beaver bucks. You can get your information And we love beavers because they're workmanlike, They get their work done. When Jensen was 17, he deployed the most utilitarian pickup line to Lori, And the rest is history. And we are so delighted to have Jensen and to have their support So will you give them another welcome? And he may tell you about the workman but I'm not going to steal his thunder. So I also want to thank the Nvidia I want to thank all of you And we have, as I said, and they have a lot of a lot Their personal stories They're both. They were both born overseas. They both studied far from their families. They both attended big public research Jensen This one, and both are members Both are CEOs of organizations to play in contributing big solutions at a very extraordinary Now, Jensen, but what we want to talk about here and higher education to make big change in partnership and using tools So I'm cognizant that I have three and the last thing I want to do So that's my main worry. But I want to start with a question We I've heard Jensen say this in other settings. Think about the so what when you talk about A.I. and you talk about accelerated computing the amazing engineering in the superpod that will go into the new complex And he said, Think so what? And so my question, and then President Murthy is, And really from a couple of dimensions Let me take a step back first and explain what why. And video is at the center of the A.I. revolution to something that I should consider which is which is how computing We started the company 30, 31 years ago We called it accelerated computing. And and what what it basically does is use the right tool for the right job, You would use a you would use a screwdriver and you would use a hammer and and so you would use the right tool There are in many important applications, it could be scientific or it could be artificial intelligence We observe that that 5% of the code consumes 99.9% of the time to run. And and if that's the case, using a general purpose computer It's not not really sensible. And so we We invented a programing model called And I and I'm echoing just a tad bit. If you guys could just turn me down little a much more comfortable yelling at you right. And, and so we, we, we invented this this programing model and the so what the so what is that? We've driven down effectively the cost of computing over the last decade or so by a million times. And so you ask yourself when the marginal cost of doing something, you know, could be transportation, it could be going to a library, If the marginal cost of doing something goes down by a million times, if the performance of the rate goes up by a million times you can solve you know, do that thought experiment, If something takes a million times less and you wish you could do a larger but you know, the the weather simulations a million times simulations a million times larger, the amount of data you can process, you know, it goes up by a million times goes down by a million times, How would that change what you do? That's really the thought experiment. And it turns out a foundational part and it's such a important instrument This so what this marginal cost marginal cost performance scale going up In fact, the way you would do something For example, y y look at a few sample data points, make an observation and applying the scientific method. You write some software to process that data and try to make that prediction and then you test it, test your hypothesis You go through that loop That's called the software software Instead of doing it that way, and, you know, as much examples and let it go figure out with the program. It is the program by itself. Let the computer write the program. Let the computer observe all of this mountain of data digital experience, essentially and go find the patterns of relationships to extract, if you will, the predictive features by itself, And that's essentially That is the gigantic breakthrough. And and what I just described which led to deep learning, that we know of today That's the when something of great value, becomes a million times it will be a trillion times faster How would how would that change behavior? And in fact, we observed that it was going and that computing would be done that software programing that the unimaginable in the past that we would do on a routinely on routine and a whole bunch of interesting and a whole bunch of new applications And one example, for example, you guys we'll talk about later to one of the largest multi physics or a an incredible tough problem for computers, easy for us, which is the articulation and the, you know, manipulation of things, And so these these type of problems within the practical imagination And and that's kind of the It transform the industry that we knew and it opened up Present really how would you respond from Yeah. So that driving down of cost and the connection and the world's history of knowledge I mean, if you look at what if you look at the problems climate science is a big chunk the climate crisis and I and fast compute and our ability to handle big data sets give us tools that we never had before. And this is particularly relevant big on oceanography, on forests, on ag. They give us tools new models, to predict the future, That's a huge, big deal. Now education's a big part of our mission our graduates you know, address climate science, biotech, to address That's the big Just expanding the possibilities and enabling our students John. So when you talk a little bit because we've been spending a lot of time talking with our partners data systems approaches, etc. across the institution and I think across some of The challenges we're facing in the data environment practices as well as technology. Is that one of the biggest barriers the power of computation that you see is managing data. If, if, if what? If at the foundation of computer science then then about the future of computer The whole concept of data, there's a whole bunch of easy data to do. As it turns out, computer vision And even when when I was able to achieve and even now superhuman levels that that breakthrough, It's the easy stuff, the hard stuff. Of course, there if you think about it is a multi scale problem. It is an ever changing problem. It's diverse and it's a longitudinal problem that that persists You know, biology, chemistry and and your biological behavior It happens over the course And sometimes it happens quickly. Sometimes it happens less quickly. And so continuous biological processes result in human human character. Maybe it's because I'm sitting on it, because there's probably a beaver There always. Is. There's always a beaver joke. US are so much better. Who know? I had the antenna up my know that it was in my pocket. Just kidding. I shucks, I forgot this is being streamed. Are we streaming this? So all these. Powerful things. And no one, no one in the world would be would be But but, you know, Okay. So so there the data sometimes is sparse. Sometimes it takes a long period of time a cause and effect to happen. And as you mentioned, sometimes the data doesn't reside in one place There's sovereign, sovereign properties and maybe there's confidential properties, No, no institution has all the data But data, biological data at this scale or this modality and another research Maybe it's is longitudinal. And so and so. So the the It's very complicated. The Federation of of Learning, which is which is where we can all contribute But we don't have to combine our data Federated Learning is a little bit sources of information. And then we get together we combine knowledge. And so artificial intelligence There's a whole bunch of other concepts for data synthetic data generation using using self reflection. Basically, about the future, generates which is what we do, you self refinement of your learning, self reflection to two A's that are that are batting or just about all of the different ways social learning. I will have some in in the future of A.I. and in And so this this whole area How do you How do you think about copyright information and that data, how do you how do you use, How do you ground data? You can ground data on social values I call reinforcement But what about what about synthesizing AI drug candidates? And those drug candidates You can't just generate hallucination Maybe, maybe one thing hallucination or a robot or a drug that's discovered or even even video could be quite harmful. And so we need to make sure Some of the grounding is based Some of the grounding is based on truth. Some of the grounding is based on physics. There's a lot of grounding So, you know, whoever's helping me turn it the other way. And so I'm providing some reinforcement and please turn it the other way Just a little bit more. And now don't move it. See, we're we're doing stochastic gradient descent and so. So you could see in just a few minutes you could explore This is an area computer scientists, This is a a genuinely valuable area And so. Yeah, so we asked students to And it was interesting, that submitted focused And we have three students And so I'd like to invite each judge to who is majoring in economics He has a minor in religious studies First question. Go ahead. I was hoping to hear your thoughts AI for widespread, equitable access Do you see ways economic opportunity for more people, it will worsen the current trend towards Yeah, excellent question. I'm going to give you an example, I'm going to answer I'm I believe that that artificial intelligence single greatest contribution to lift lift all of the people that has historically been left behind. And know It's going to close the technology gap. It's going to bridge the economic divide. It's going to enable the people who has historically been viewed to have been left It's going to level the playing field. And so that's my that's my thesis. I'll give you two examples before before Chat GPT, before Openai's revolutionary a computer was programed We knew things like C++, you know, and, and about let's pick a number about 0.1% of humanity and which is that I know enjoys a pretty good life In fact if you want to who lives a very high quality of life, you, you know, If you said yes, bingo, would you like to get married? You know, that's that's the pickup line. Okay. So, so, you know, and so when you find a girl that knows C++, before it's too late. Okay. And so your future, a wonderful future is ahead of you. And so, however, however, I because programing is so hard, the number of people from this incredible technology prosperity has been limited until really you can tell because 100 million people everybody is programing a computer Very few everybody knows how to tell somebody else Do you agree? And so and so you just have to now learn what you want, and the computer Come up with a plan, ask you You can refine the plan, you can iterate Maybe I'll do some research for for you. You would like to write a paper. Before you write a paper, you know, the pros and cons of variety of, of a particular debate. You can ask Chachi You could review your your math work and maybe give you some input on your And it could critique it. So you essentially have a collaborator You essentially have a tutor And so so I think the ability for I to elevate all of the people left behind because of the lack of understanding The second example I'll give you this one, one of my favorite examples. This was actually an example that that was that Jeff Dean, who was head of A.I. at Google, spoke And I always loved that example. And it was it was a Japanese farmer family who who labored through growing and selling their cucumbers and and it's sensible, but I would think that cucumbers are are comes in different shapes, and depending on their sizes and shapes, This one might be sold ugly fruits or ugly vegetable And then to to, you know, And but the ugly ones are easy to detect. But the ones that are really special Okay? And so they have to go pick out and takes all these different cucumbers their family picked out of the farm and It was a laborious job. And one day, one day using TensorFlow there, their son went to who was in high school and learned about this the various cucumber grades That's it. Just imitate mom. And now mom just stands back you know. Right. Normal, ugly, extra ugly, You know, those are all the best ones. And then, you know, perfect. And based on that, mom dedicated her time It completely changed Well, this piece of software and yet now, you know, a high school kid could teach an AI to learn from the parent and turn what otherwise was a quite And freed her to be able which is talk about the cucumber, talk and talk about the quality of their craft previously But now, because of artificial available to them, And so I think this is this is probably Now, what does it mean to all of you, you know, to the people You're in let's say you're in forestry. Oregon State is one of the world's Let's just face it. It's very unlikely it's not impossible, However, Chhatrapati surely is, and all of a sudden to apply it to your field of science this computing technology And maybe, maybe for the very first time, be applied to some of the really impactful which historically hasn't benefit And so that's just another example. But the list goes on social sciences We have now leveled the playing field for all of you to apply computing your life or your your field of work or, know your research. JT Did you want to comment? Yeah, a little bit. So I want to come at it You know, whether it's AI, whether it's Internet, medical breakthrough or something the has the threat that it plays inequalities in society It's almost anything that you do And I think it's on us to actually pay attention to that possibility. All right. And as a public university, I think it's particularly important making sure that there is equitable access And we have a role we have a role Right. So you know, we've got E campus, now jumping in, thinking about education the stuff that we're doing you know, non-degree programs for, I think it's on us AI and expertise in the so that we can have people of the kind of technologies Right. So I think educational institutions like us, you have a role to play in in enabling the kind of access So I want to turn to the second question. Keyon Shag, who is a major in Business Administration, I think on Target Correct. Picking up on Monique's questions, of the proliferation of AI for what is taught in how things are taught in What are the most important implications. Of AI for education Education? You i, i, I was the I was the the class of 80 to 84, I think it was 1980, 1981 that HP launched the HP 41 C and the HP 41 C was a fully programable computer. You could write a and the professors freaked out and had no idea what to do because you can now bring in your HP 41 C and write yourself a little program and it would take the test for you Of course, you still have to learn which I thought demonstrated But, but if you could write the program pretty sure you're good to go. Well, I think Nuff said, Let me off your job right here and however. But that was the big controversy And shortly after, I'm pretty sure now when you take a test, you probably need you probably need a calculator at least. And and so I think the the I'm pretty certain that in the future And those tests might not even require you But those tests will probably require you and and I know now I'm going to say something about the difference at school. We're supposed to not share our work We're supposed to share our work. I wonder. I wonder if that separation That collaboration is by which tests are performed and that that achievement is demonstrated at a very early age, in which case, if collaboration then why would a collaboration And so, so I think that you'll probably But the big idea, I think, is that this technology will change. Education And more importantly, this technology will change the way Or couldn't agree more or I think we've got to go at it with not defensively, right. Not to get into this business of And so we've got to prevent that. And how do we keep it I mean, that can't be the way So and we're not and, creative ways of using the technologies but embracing them and seeing what I think there's going to be a big change in the way we personalize education. So it's not going to be one size fits all. It's, you know, everybody comes in, they go to the middle, I think we all have the technologies as an individual student, what your weaknesses are, the educational pathway so that you can emerge on the other side I'm hopeful that what comes out of it on the part of students far, greater These are the things that I keep I will tell you that of driving down the cost of education, you know, impediment It can drive down enterprise costs, just what it takes to run the university you need to service the individual student And so there is. And then, of course, things between students All of these things are going And so I'm very interested the student experience, even in enormous I think that's a huge opportunity. Thank you. So I want to go to the third question and our final question Finance and Business Administration, Go ahead. Thank you. There is a lot of discussion about Do you have advice for university students and going into careers where A.I. tools are being used extensively? How should we be preparing for this world? And what do we need to understand about There are two two questions in there, But but I'm just going to the AI. There's the there's the question of And then there's the the ethical use And I think the two are related, You with respect to to the use of AI for students, I would encourage you to engage as much as you can. And now I know that who just heard what I said you're going to all the problems are going to be solved, It's not it's not anything like that. This is not anything like Like no different who to work with you to collaborate you still need to know how to collaborate. You need to know how to prompt, how to frame a problem, how to iterate on it, Oftentimes when you interact Initially, it wasn't exactly quite right, but based on the response which then you know, so on and so forth, You also know that is far from the the hope of what it can do someday. The technology is, is is incredible, And there are many things And so you have to guide it along. It's no different than when you work You're guiding each other along and strengths. And some, you know, do you divide a task one of you are good at and you would do there, the parts of it the the prompt a little bit a sequence of of prompts, that would guide the And so there's a lot of either prompting becomes the new programing. You know, when you're collaborating with some somebody, aren't you really programing each other, You're prompt programing each other. Isn't that right? And so whenever you learn you have to learn how to program them, And so you have to do the same And for every single domain of applications, And and so, you know, is a great skill in itself. It's another way of saying learning people is a deep skill in itself. That's why there are some people at collaborating with others and there's because it takes skill, right? And so this is no different. and this teammate And and so I would all young people learn all the different ways that and you know, and iterate with with an its capabilities understands nuances. Now with respect to ethics I there's a there's a that conversation is is incredibly broad it includes everything from from social bias and such hallucination or fake information all the way to things that are that are right in our face with respect to the functionality Remember, A.I. is likely to be infused into just about almost all products Could be, manufacturing manipulators, And so social websites, e-tail stores, music, music, streaming services, And in each one of them, I the industry has to take very good care with the product And each one of the industries, or the or NITS or, needs to engaging AI to make sure or policies need to be enhanced the capability and the potential of the Each one of their their industries And so there's the ethics product functionality spectrum. And that you could you could spend, you know, a whole career to research You know, so let me give you a sort of a higher Right? So over and above figuring out how to use well and how to collaborate, you know, as AI comes on board, ever more important because so much of AI All of you will have access to like you do So knowing your thing So your oceanographers have to know oceanography, your roboticists have to know robotics, So deepening domain knowledge, deep AI is going to be your collaborator But you got to know is never going to substitute and that deep knowledge So that's going to be deeply important on the AI front. I do think on the ethics front, I do think I mean, they have a role to play in in poking at its various dimensions And so the social sciences, you know, These folks have a very important role in posing the kinds of questions that So I do think that very, very important I mean, it's moving so quickly. We really have to pay attention. And to contribute to doing the research. Yeah, yeah. It's very likely the social sciences research that that will contribute And so I think this is a whole area to engage in the conversation, So we have time for one more question. And this is OSU, So let me ask one of those You know, the last question, All right, just one. More last question. Let's lean in. So you got to There have been multiple attempts You Nvidia's recently announced into humanoid robotics. Why? Why did you do that? And what's your vision for humanoids Maybe. Maybe answer it with the moment And you know I love moments, the moment for for deep learning, for machine learning was when we realized that we can learn the patterns of raw data of almost any kind. You know, it could be images, it could be you know, videos, it could be right, whatever it is, to the point If you could learn that, to recognize the to infer from that the protein structures to the point if I understood the protein structures, why can't I learn and infer And so so that was a Another moment was, was if you could, recognize speech and understand speech, but understand that it's, that it's, but understand it's, it's If you can understand recognize then why can't you recognize motion And if you could translate things, so and so forth, text to protein, you know, so and so forth, amino If you could translate from text to images, because the computer doesn't know and text If, if that is true, then why can't why can't a computer to literally articulate Because the articulation of the limb is just a whole bunch of numbers as well. We just have to understand and tokenize it, if you will represent it represented in numbers. And so that does articulation, video, articulation, and if a computer can learn And and so I think when, when the world came along and these large language models so much easier to train models that are multi modality that are cross modality, it became quite exciting. And we realized that just as we can generalize language, we can generalize the video generation, robotic articulation? And so that that final leap, and it really, really inspired And now now you're seeing robotics, coming out to just about everywhere. Joey, do you want to comment on that Yeah, well, I mean, I'm so excited and there's so much in the OSU universe that actually can use this kind of work in my opinion. We've got an amazing robotics group here so the connection between us Our applications Think about Marine robotics. We've got this huge, so many applications in marine robotics connected to climate science I mean, all right. Hello there, digit. This is a digit from Agility Robotics. This is a is essentially a spin out Yeah, that's right Yeah. Digital's Jonathan back their digit. How excited are you to see Jensen again. This is. Digits was just that in video recently. Any last comments as we close. Out of. It as you see it. Well I would say that the the final comments are are we're at the beginning And we the reason why I say that is the new industrial produces something new that was impossible And and this this new revolution. And as you know, the last one, You applied some energy, and then what comes out of it And so so this new this new world, And what's going to come out of it is We call them tokens. And those tokens And so this this industrial revolution manufacturing intelligence And we want to make sure that we do it a positive impact on the world and is the single most valuable resource And now we can manufacture it for many, And so it's impact to just about And so beginning of a new world and and this is this is the best of times And, you know, the whole world is changing New technology, new capabilities, And so in a lot of ways, And I I'm glad that I'm glad that you guys University, of some of the most important areas energy, tech, clean energy, tech. There's a whole bunch of different fields that are And now you have this incredible that you can And so welcome to Oregon State University. Thanks for coming today. So a very big thank you to Jensen, to Jensen and Lori for for believing for this conversation to digital And to Jonathan Hurst, So thank you all.