Welcome to the news hour. They are still fighting fires tonight on the Hawaiian island of Maui in the nation's deadliest fire disaster. In five years, At least 36 people are known dead and more than 270 buildings damaged or destroyed across the blackened landscape. Oh, my gosh! Look at the harbor resort town of Lahaina is now shrouded in a blanket of thick smoke. The popular tourist spot on the western coast of Maui steeped in native Hawaiian history dating back to the 17 hundreds was virtually unrecognizable today, even to locals. Goodness look, all these houses. Adding to the devastating human toll is the loss of cultural treasures. We were not prepared for what we saw Richard old As a helicopter pilot for a Maui tour group to be the capital of all of probably all the places that are tourist areas that are Hawaiian history are gone and that can't be replaced. You can't refurbish the building that is just anxious. Now. You know it can't be rebuilt. It's lost forever. Another casualty, the famous 60 ft tall banyan tree marking where a Hawaiian Kings palace once stood. The fires erupted Tuesday night, catching Islanders and tourists by surprise. Some even fled into the ocean to escape the flames. Thousands of Maui residents were forced to evacuate this morning and Got on our phones to pictures of our House. Just down to the Slam. Nothing but smoking. Centers. The flames were fueled by dry vegetation and low humidity, along with strong winds from a hurricane farther south in the past several decades as agricultural kind of declined. This is across the state. These spaces fill in with literally tons of fuel, and these grassy fuels are highly sensitive to quick drying out and really easy to ignite. Entire neighborhoods were destroyed Block after block revealed the charge shells of homes and vehicles, some still smoldering. Today, thousands of customers were still without power and cell phone service. The only road in and out of Lahaina was closed to most traffic to clear the way for fire and emergency crews. Hawaii's National Guard helicopters to put out fires and help with search and rescue operations. President Biden also approved a disaster declaration for Hawaii, bringing federal assistance to the state. Joining me now from Maui is K. I t V for Ireland news meteorologist Malika Dudley Mallika. Thank you for joining us. This is one of those stories. You're not just covering but living through. I understand you had to evacuate when the fires began. I just want to ask how you and your family are doing. We're doing as well as we can. I think we're still in a shade of shock, and we've begun to mourn. There are moments of just Sobbing outbursts, right? I just have to let it out. And there are other moments where I'm just trying to keep things normal and happy for my Children, because this is a really, really dark time for us here on Maui. I'm so sorry for what you and everyone else is going through. We've been hearing these words like catastrophic and apocalyptic to describe the scenes on the ground. You're there. What does it look like and feel like and sound like around you? Well, Fortunately, I evacuated from my home and I'm in a safe place where we have power. We have water. We We have a roof over our heads. And, um we're all safe. So I haven't seen it with my own eyes in Lahaina. But I've seen the videos and the pictures. I've heard the stories. I'm I'm constantly updating on instagram and you know these days, That's where you get most of your information really, from on the ground from witnesses. And so I've been hearing just devastating stories from people. And when you think about the people that are telling you the story, for example, one woman this morning shared that she ran for her life. The fire moved up the lock and 15 seconds, so she ran for her life, jumped over the seawall into the water and was Basically in the water for seven hours. In the meantime, one of her apartment mates died right next to her. She saw that happen. And then she felt like she was getting hypothermia. So she would approach anything that was on fire in order to get some warmth, which then would burn her. Um, so a story like that. It is. Those are the types of stories that we're hearing, and those are from mobile able bodied people who are able to run and so to think of all of the people that The elderly. Those that are not mobile Children. Maybe even you know, we don't know. But we see the entire town leveled. We know 271 structures have gone. Those are businesses and homes. History is lost. Lina Town is so full of history. Um It's definitely the most historic town on our island and one of the most historic in the entire island chain to lose, not just the homes, the businesses the history but also now to hear that we're losing lives and the number is just going to keep rising has been devastating. We understand the fires are still burning across Maui. There've been reports of more fires on the islands of Hawaii. And while who do you have any updates on how much of those fires have actually been contained? Yes. So the most important update just came minutes ago and Lahaina fire is 80% contained. That is such good news. My husband just went over to the fire that was threatening our home. He says. He didn't go over to it. You can see it because the mountain shows us a good view of what is happening, and he said that it's still active. Um, but it doesn't seem that our home is in danger. But we still haven't gotten the all clear so we're kind of just in a wait and see pattern right now. Thousands of people still don't have power cell service. As as well, Have you heard anything about how quickly any of those services could be reinstated? You know the thing is that in Lahaina? What potentially even caused the fires was the power lines that went down 29 power lines went down. So there is no easy. Quick fix to this fiber optic cable was damaged over in Lahaina as well. So for in Lahaina town, um this is not. Uh oh, and if and in 24 hours, he will be fixing this. That's not the kind of situation we're in. We're in a Years to recover phase. Um, for that side of the island now, as far as the other side of the island where we had a fire and key. Hey, we had a fire and cooler And there are other people on other parts of the island that are without power. Those will probably get, um, text, but we still don't know when I still don't have power at my home, for example. We are thinking of you and everyone else there and keeping you in our thoughts. We can't thank you enough for joining us tonight. Malika Dudley TV four's Island News meteorologist Joining us from Maui. Thank you.