(gentle music) - [Narrator] Hey there, We at Psych2Go look forward to your continued love and support. With that said, let's begin. A lot of us feel like we don't deserve to have our dreams come true or have good things happen to us, and sometimes, no matter or how much we've already accomplished, we still don't feel content. Why is that? The answer isn't an easy one. Most likely, it's when we grapple with feelings of self-loathing. Self-loathing is defined that often manifests as a negative view of oneself, It's important for a person and attitudes towards themselves so they can start to Here are seven signs you may and just don't know it. One, you tear yourself down. Self-hate makes you your own worst critic. Keeping an eye on your but not allowing yourself from an immense dislike You think extremely harsh and indulge in self-pity a lot. So much that tearing yourself down has become a daily habit for you. Everyone makes mistakes, but that you can't forgive You're quick to blame yourself whenever something goes wrong, even if it's not your fault. You never commend yourself but rather, criticize yourself for even the tiniest of mistakes. You're plagued by feelings and inadequacy that manifest themselves as frequent complaints about Two, you feel insecure around others. If you find that other about yourself a lot, it might be time to ask yourself why? Most likely, it's because you're constantly and feeling like you'll no matter what you do. Subjecting yourself to is a definite sign that you hate yourself. When you look at someone else, you always focus on all the things that they have that you don't, and it makes you ungrateful for all the good things you do have. You can't help it feel bad about yourself whenever you're around confident, smart, Three, you neglect your self-care. Do you want your loved ones Chances are, you probably Because when you love someone, you want what's best for them. So if you really loved yourself, you'd want that for you too. This is why neglecting your self-care is a form of self-hatred. You don't sleep well. You're not eating right. You don't exercise. You don't try to look nice for yourself, and you don't do things It's not that you don't have the time or can't be bothered enough. It's more about refusing because of a deep seated Since your insides are at war with you, it only seems right to let yourself show it outwardly as well. So when you look in the mirror, all you see is a haggard reflection, unworthy of love, and Four, you don't let yourself be happy. You're a pessimist who's quick at finding the negative aspect in every situation. You're wary of compliments or praise because it seems mocking. You don't see yourself in a positive light and refuse to believe what others say. However, you do take because it reinforces You're not comfortable as you believe your and you deserve them. You find it hard to feel and this is what sucks all You resent the way you are and deprive yourself from anything, even remotely akin to delight. These are just a few of the ways that you deny yourself happiness, perhaps even unknowingly as you fester in your own self-hatred. Five, you isolate yourself from others. You struggle to maintain because you feel like you Often, you feel their attention and love is a burden for you. You don't consider yourself good enough to remain in the circle. Since you have a low you feel like they're judging you as well. It may look like they're doing so you stay back because you think they're You feel guilty for hanging out with them because you believe your presence and you're holding them back. Your inability to love to accept love from others as well. As a result, you isolate from inconveniencing Six, you put on a facade for others. You're one way when you're by yourself, and then another when You wear a mask and don't let because you hate who you are. You try so hard to fit in and you constantly wish You feel ashamed of your true self and you think that no one will so you'd rather pretend And seven, you're afraid to dream big. Having ambition and dreaming scares you. You smother your own hopes and aspirations because you think you'll So what's the point? You look down on yourself and refuse to leave your comfort zone. The possibility of failure You easily feel discouraged and worthless the moment you encounter a setback. You deny yourself opportunities to grow and have no experiences because you don't believe in yourself. Your insecurities make it hard for you to see your capabilities and you can allow yourself to succeed. We all have a lot of that are toxic for our mental health and emotional wellbeing. So many of us struggle with emptiness, and worthlessness that it can sometimes lead Becoming more aware of your self-hatred makes it easier for you to overcome it, and with time, patience, you can learn to love yourself and live a happier, healthier life. Did these points remind you of someone? Maybe yourself? Can you now see where such Did these points make it easier for you to name your emotions and behaviors? Please let us know in the comments below. Also, share this video with anyone you think might benefit from it, and we'll see you in the next one.