- Every other video on the because what they all say is that when light some of that light is absorbed and what isn't bounces and that's what you perceive as color. But that is leaving out That is like saying that the is because you push on the gas pedal. It's missing all the It doesn't explain why or why the ocean is blue, or a flame, or this fluorescent rock, but we're gonna do that in this video because we're better than Color for the most part is the interaction of That's pretty much it. So we're gonna explain that mostly because in researching this video, it made me appreciate the beauty of atoms more than at any other point in my life. It also made me appreciate that much of the way that is by looking at how light and Chemistry is color, and now (upbeat music) I drew them upside down. Ugh. This is indigo, and this is the molecular It's got lots of carbons, which makes sense because found in some plants, like Indigofera tinctoria Su-suffrutico. For this jar of blue pigment to actually look blue to our eyes, light waves from the sun are hitting this molecule and interacting with its electrons. So it would make sense that if I change the number of electrons in this molecule or how they're arranged, Now, indigo is used as a dye and it gives jeans that and part of the indigo dyeing process is reducing it with a Oh, it's so dark, you but it is getting green. Electrons aren't static singular particles like we think of in a drawing. They move around because they these balloon-like diagrams you might remember from The short version is that where the charge of the and typically electrons before they fill up but that's just one atom. When you have multiple like in an indigo molecule, and therefore the shape of those orbitals and the places where those We go from atomic orbitals which for the purposes because you can think about and passing them back and forth, like people passing food So when light or energy hits an electron, it moves from a lower energy orbital to a higher energy orbital. So now the electron distributes itself differently around the molecule, as if that orbital is changing shape. Now we need to do a tiny to show how this translates I'm also not happy about the math. (jaunty music) So this is the energy difference between the low energy state and it's defined by this. This is Planck's relationship. So delta E is the change in energy between the low energy state This is Planck's constant, which between a photon's energy c is just the speed of light, and lambda here is the wavelength And so really the most is that there's an inverse relationship between the wavelength and the change in energy. That's the main thing here. Big change in energy, Big wavelength absorbed, So much math for just that. What this means is that the farther you go along the electromagnetic spectrum, the higher the energy and About this range here is what the visible light spectrum. Longer visible wavelengths start about 740 nanometers and shorter visible end around 380 nanometers. And remember that these of the wavelength of these light waves. The light waves don't but different wavelengths trigger our eyes and visual systems in our brains to perceive different wavelengths. But that's a biology video Now, Indigo has a pretty between its low and high energy states, so it absorbs longer wavelengths which is orange. It's not only absorbing that but rather a distribution where lots of that 600 but also diminishing around it too. But then basically all and a little bit of green and your eyeballs perceive the distribution of light as blue. But what it actually means is that electrons are changing where charge and changing how they're like inflating the balloon from before. For indigo, scientists think it looks a little something like this. Where the lower energy state and the higher energy When 600 nanometer light it causes the electrons to move through those orbitals like this. And unless everyone in the comments has tried to draw an I don't wanna hear it, mm-hm. That's what's happening That energy is doing work moving electrons between You are looking at the But remember that in the indigo pigment, we could change those Indigo is relatively insoluble in water, so it's often reduced to leucoindigo during the dying process to and bind to clothing. In this case, reduced are replaced with hydroxyl groups, which then deprotonated This changes the energy levels and requires more energy Going back to Planck's relationship, that means it absorbs light with shorter wavelengths giving it a yellowish green color. And this is color at Color is the result of the interaction of light with electrons. Now, if we take that fabric it oxidizes in the air into their original configurations, so we will start to get a And for a long time, that's But then when I was writing the video on counterfeiting bills and started to look into and how it reacts with starch, and why the two of them I realized there was a lot And I started to do a deep and what happens when energy because that motion of atoms and molecules can result in color as well. That is what is happening in water. Water isn't blue because back at you. Sure, on a clear day there but mostly water is blue because of the way that Take this water molecule connected to an oxygen. These bonds can vibrate These hydrogens can move out and in, these bonds can bend up and down, and there's also an asymmetrical bend where like one goes out and one comes in, so we kinda get something like that. As an individual molecule, these bonds can absorb which we can't see, but if you have lots of you change the energy of those vibrations. You multiply vibrations, on and you start to be able to absorb shorter wavelengths of in the red range of the visible spectrum. What this means is that you're taking out a little bit of that red, is just a little bit more blue. It's not a lot. That's why the sunlight off the top of a lake, but it is enough that you can And this blows my mind that water is blue because it is actually vibrating. That is where the color comes from. Why did nobody ever tell me this before? This is so cool to me. And this is really hard to see in something like an ocean or a pool because, yeah, you can have the blue sky or like blue pool tiles but you can see it in places where you have really big chunks of ice. You can also see it in a fascinating demonstration from 1993. The scientists took two 3-meter-long pipes and filled one with water and one with heavy water, When they looked through the tubes, the one that was full but the one that was full of heavy water and had a higher mass and thereby lower vibrational It was more of like this yellowy color. You could actually see based on how the energy was interacting with those vibrations in Neon signs contain tubes that are filled with different gases that smash into each other. These include, of course, neon, but also things like When you apply electricity those gases inside ionize, they come apart into and negatively charged electrons. You are adding so much that you're not just moving you are actually ripping it off that atom. Those positively charged ions, and additional electrons fly back and forth across the tube smashing into even more molecules And when those ions and they have to give off some of that energy that they've absorbed somehow, and they do that by This is what gives neon They're actually emitting but that is only part of the story. Neon artists quickly learned that they could also coat with compounds called phosphors to expand their color palette. Phosphors are a kind that absorbs some of the UV and give it back out So here again, you're exciting an electron and then it falls back down So in a way, these phosphors are multiplying the amount coming from these signs because they're turning invisible UV light into visible light. And we'll talk more about in a second because first In terms of chemistry, fire is the rapid oxidation of a material. When we think of something it's typically the oxidation of something like propane or methane by, well, the oxygen in the air. When that oxidation reaction happens, you get CO2, H2O, and energy. That energy causes that to vibrate rapidly. Some of that energy is given off as heat and some of it is given off as light. When you're burning methane, or anything containing carbon, there's often incomplete Little bits of carbon that As those carbon molecules are excited, electrons move up in an energy level and then fall back down. During that fall, they give that characteristic campfire glow, because they're releasing Those packets of energy are photons, which are massless particles that carry the energy of the A photons frequency on that spectrum is related to how much energy Basically, the atoms are so hot that they're vibrating so fast that they give off energy And I feel like every good that that top yellow is not necessarily the Lower down in the flame if the air and the fuel are well mixed, the flame actually gets even hotter and there are fewer incomplete This means there are no to glow yellow, which is why a good clean gas flame can actually be really hard to see, like when you flambe something. It doesn't give up much light because it is outputting rather than vibrating carbon molecules. Instead, the hottest part There, any remaining particles are so hot that they're vibrating so fast that they're giving off a shorter wavelength higher energy light in the blue and even UV range, but that is different Okay, so I know that on the internet to talk about LEDs, and this is in fact the best explanation of a band gap that I have seen. Remember those molecular Let's take the simplest Each one has one electron. Now, if you combine these you go from having two atomic orbitals to two molecular orbitals. One bonding orbital and Now, each of these but the bonding orbital has a lower energy than the antibonding so it puts both electrons but there's always this higher If instead you combine two things get more complicated. Now, if you think of four and then eight, and then you're gonna get four, and then eight, and then exponentially So many that practically and you could think of The highest energy band is the valence band, and the next highest band The difference between the Good conductors like metals which means it takes almost no energy to get electrons from the valence band up to the conduction band. The conduction band is like a big empty infinitely large molecular orbital. So once they're in that state, electrons can move freely conducting electricity. They just go from here to boop Now, semiconductors have a small band gap, so there's a little bit but if you apply energy in their electrons can travel and through the material easily. By placing two different next to each other and running you can get electrons in the conduction band to fall down to the valence And when they do that, they This is called a light emitting diode, which is used everywhere. Different sizes of band gaps give off different wavelengths Energy plus electrons equals So neighboring atoms can affect the way that their electrons act together and that's kind of similar, to the way that all of We are surrounded by crystals but I swear this is science. A ligand is an ion or molecule that complexes with a metal ion. And look, I can already hear you typing. Biologists pronounce it ligand, and chemist pronounce it ligand, and I am a geneticist, and So tomato, tomato, ligand, and what your scientific Anyways, the ligand and the metal ion in these complexes share electrons, so we are primed and ready for some energy to interact with and move those electrons. A nice example is aluminum oxide, which forms a mineral called corundum. When it is gem quality, it is clear. The aluminum ions are sharing electrons, as here. The smallest energy gaps between occupied and require more energy than a which is why we see this But aluminum oxide is the in both ruby and sapphire as well, which famously have colors. You get those colors via impurities. In ruby, about 1% of the aluminum ions are replaced by chromium, which has something that aluminum doesn't, d valence electrons. Do you remember s, p, d, and f? No? Don't worry about it. They're just different But d orbitals experience something called the ligand field effect, and they're the reason are brightly colored and others are not. The oxygen atoms around the metal give off small electric fields. This causes some of the d orbitals to be slightly higher This splitting in energies creates a much smaller that might just be the right Rubies absorb short and leaving pure red long wavelength light to be reflected back at This to me, is really cool. The electronic structure creates color. Now in sapphire, the impurity absorbing more of the red colors and leaving behind blue wavelengths. This shows that swapping out the metal ion will affect the size of the energy gap. But there's one other neat thing I haven't told you about rubies yet. They can also fluoresce under UV light. This glass is glowing because of quinine. It's the reason why tonic The structure of quinine with lots of carbon atoms and rings, but visible light doesn't in quite the same way. Instead, you need higher energy UV light to excite those electrons. And then they emit some at around 461 nanometers, giving you this really pretty light blue. Now, when you shine high energy on molecules like quinine, the molecular structure We have seen this before, but in molecules like an excited electron loses in non-radiating transitions, basically things like and giving away kinetic energy, before it gives off the rest of its energy as a photon of light. Because it's giving off than it took to move it it emits a photon with a longer wavelength than the one it absorbed. This is known as the Stokes shift. And like with indigo, by changing the arrangement of we can change how they respond to light. So this fluorescent beaker narra wood extract, which contains the fluorescent You can see it really That light is stopping in that extract. Now, if I take some of this and I add a few drops to another tube, you can see that that matlaline under that UV light. But if I add a little bit the matlaline gets protonated, its electron configuration it will lose the ability to fluoresce. I like when chemistry works. Now, this fluorescence looks found in things like fireflies, but that works in an even different way. In bioluminescence, an oxidizes another molecule, and then that energy is efficiently converting rather than heat. Biology is cool, but that's that biology can make color. Take for example, the blueberry. It is not explained by a single thing we've talked about so far. Sure, blueberries look blue, you can see that the are actually purple, not blue. The blue doesn't come It comes from a waxy coating Man, and as this dries down on the paper, you can see it turning I think this is that wax That's kind of crazy. It is the same mechanism that gives some butterfly Tiny nanostructures created by the waxy coating of the blueberry, or the keratin of a bird feather, or the microstructures of an opal bounce light off of the surface. The cool thing is that studying these blueberries dissolved the waxy coating off of a fruit with a similar property, an Oregon grape, they created a colorless liquid solution that when dried back down on And to explain why that's possible, we have to back up to waves of electromagnetic radiation. When light reflects off it bounces in a predictable direction. When light reflects off its scatters. But if that disordered surface has gaps that are just the right size, certain wavelengths so that those waves add together, otherwise known as The ones that don't match up which is called destructive interference. And because these and wavelengths of light the interference lines up just right to be interpreted as color by our eyes. What's even cooler to me is like the blueberry wax, give which means it looks but a more ordered structure, something like the butterfly wing, can give us angle dependent color since the wavelengths that depend on the angle the This is what makes some bird feathers, beetle wings, and stones iridescent. And constructive interference is what makes soap bubbles iridescent too, except in their case, it is the constructive bouncing off the top and that we see with our eyes. So cool. And it's all beautiful really. And I don't wanna get but energy from the is bouncing all around us all the time. There are x-rays, and gamma and light waves just bouncing But we have evolved an organ that allows us to see just And what we're seeing is of that energy with electrons. Electrons are moving, and because color is chemistry