[MUSIC] [PAMELA MORGAN] Now it's time to move to our Our next performer is a best-selling author, He's the reason many of us got into Bitcoin, He took a break from writing his fourth book, When he's not writing, he's traveling the and open blockchains to communities everywhere. His Patreon supporters make that work possible, as well. Most importantly, our next speaker is the and host an event like this; one that benefits Please help me welcome Andreas M. Antonopoulos! [Applause] [ANDREAS] Wow! Thank you, thank you. Thank you so much... I can't see any of you. [Laughter] It's all one big black thing. But I'm just so thrilled to be here. Thank you all for coming out, thanks for making Thank you to all of the volunteers. It was a really touching moment this morning; watching twenty-five people -- who all volunteered we had planned and trained for a 1.5 months You made it, so here we are! Thank you. [Applause] They put some yellow tape here the front. [They] make it difficult because I tend to I want to talk about the three components live, and breathe every single day. This isn't just a technology, it's not just It's all three [of those things], this multi-faceted feed off each other. They come in these crashing waves that just sometimes elated, sometimes terrified. You get all these waves of memes... [Laughter] And craziness, and FOMO (fear of All of these great community expressions that The last six months have been weird for all We watched this incredible run-up in the price. It dominated the conversation. If you've been in this space for a while, this is maybe the six, seventh, or eighth massive increase in price. We've seen it before. I remember, at some point in October, I started They asked me to comment on this. They would ask, in a very cagey way, &quot;So what Could this possibly, maybe be a bubble?&quot; [Laughter] I [said], &quot;Of course it's a bubble. We're living in the era of the everything-bubble. But really, it's not the bitcoin bubble you very aware of. I'd be more worried about the subprime auto the real-estate bubble...&quot; [Applause] &quot;The student loan bubble, the debt bubble, the (everything) bubble. Yes, bitcoin is in a bubble - the most obvious Twenty-four hours later, someone made a video They said, 'Andreas went over to the dark [Laughter] 'He's calling it a bubble.' Told you so. All I said was: be careful! Obviously, some people were not careful. Price dominated everything. I think many of you have probably had this don't know what is going on. It's all very weird, complicated, and difficult But you find someone who can explain in some some of the things around you. Then you suddenly realise that even though the hell is going on in this Bitcoin space space), to everyone you know, you become the They come to you and ask, &quot;You know about [Laughter] &quot;You know about Bitcoin... is this Maybe you told them [to do that] when the They thought it was silly internet money. But on the morning that it hits $19,000, they to get in?!&quot; [Laughter] Depending on whether they're a good friend Wait!&quot;) or that douche bag who bullied you Now's the time to get in, Chad&quot;)... You wouldn't do that, of course. Everyone in this theater is wonderful, we But the best part: after you told them to called you up at $19,000, in January and February I know you've had them. Someone calls you up and they ask, &quot;Are you I saw on CNBC that bitcoin... crashed!&quot; It's &quot;destroyed,&quot; it's &quot;gone,&quot; it's &quot;down &quot;Are you okay?&quot; Now, let's not minimise the fact that a lot in a very ill-advised way) are hurting. That's not funny, that's a bad investment these things are still extremely volatile. But it is also extremely ironic when people Because we heard it crashed.&quot; A year ago, we were just over $1,000. Price-wise, we're still up a cool 800%. Your answer should probably be: &quot;You're in [Applause] The day that I start hearing about your investment Nobody will be okay. You see, even my talk here is dominated by talk about a lot. But it's a propos - it's the times we're Then suddenly, the price tanks. The meetups start getting roomy again. [Laughter] The phone calls stop. Some people start laughing at you again, saying, that would crash...&quot; And the cycle repeats. Do you guys like farmers' markets? [AUDIENCE] Yeah! [ANDREAS] If you go to a farmers' market this rhubarb and pumpkins. Because it's winter. You're not going to find a great array of Mexico at this time of the year. In the local farmers' market, all they can In a great analogy to the economic situation and noticed it's not very popular, you might Farming is dead, I knew it. I saw it on CNBC.&quot; [Laughter] But [the farmers] are about to start planting, We're about to start planting. What happens right after one of these great crazy rush to the exchanges, is that nothing Nobody can get anything done because of all influx of newbies, where everyone you meet And they have questions like: Can't anyone What happens when the last bitcoin is mined? Not bad questions, the same questions we all Nothing else can happen if you're running You're signing up 150,000 new customers per doing. You do not have time to do anything else. It's all operations, it's fire-fighting every Coinbase, for example, implemented SegWit That's not a coincidence. Right until the end of December and into early I don't know this because I talked to them, We could all see what was happening, it was This was repeated across the entire industry. Anybody who was involved in a business, running write the next book and getting fifteen requests my god, is this a bubble?' Everyone was just overwhelmed and that's not Harvest time is the craziest time. That's the time when we start planting the Community and technology lag behind economy. Right now, let's be honest - the &quot;economy&quot; based on the import / export business, doing doing micropayments. About 99% of the interest in the &quot;economy&quot; the very next opportunity. That's okay, we have to go through that phase. But it is very distracting. Now we can start the real work. In a group like BOB (Bitcoin Open Blockchain groups, you're going to have this linflux and the only reason they came is because of Let's be absolutely honest. They're not interested in the principles of billion,&quot; &quot;freeing the world from the terrifying a gold standard,&quot; or whatever else we might They certainly don't give a damn about decentralization, creating more human-accessible and global They care about whether we're going to the But once they've been burned, they're not immediately. They're going to let it sit for a while and Here's the interesting thing: 95% of the people big boom have never done a single cryptocurrency Their only experience with cryptocurrency exchange that printed a number on their screen, don't actually have... which is cryptocurrency. They haven't learned the most important rule, [AUDIENCE] Not your keys, not your coins! [ANDREAS] Who is going to teach them that? You are. The BOB meetup will. They have everything to learn. Right now, they know nothing. All they know is that they didn't get to buy tell their significant other that they're supposed to make. Now is the opportunity to teach all of the that vision. They came for the price? Make them stay for the principles. They need to understand why we do this. [What is] the best way to [get them to] understand Every single one of you who has a deeper reason with passion, with enthusiasm. Do that face-to-face as part of local community. Now is the most important moment for local Now is when we help educate people on why and to dispel all of the weird rumors and Help focus their education on the things that Somewhere in that [group of newcomers] may a graphic designer who can help you make a marketer who can sell this without resorting graphic. Somewhere out there is a developer who wants Somewhere out there is an operations manager viable business. They're going to be at your local meetup. We got the wave of the economy. Now we need to build community. At the same time, people are investing in the seeds in the technology for the next great deliver better user experience, deliver more change people's lives. We can make this easier to use, more secure This applies to all of the cryptocurrencies We are right at the beginning, we are at the We all love this stuff, we're all into it. We will be willing to learn the hard stuff, non-nonsensical stuff that happens in our I mean, really -- it is horrible. Right? This is not the cryptocurrency technology It cannot be. It's too clunky, it's too complicated, it's It's not intuitive to most and you can make We need to fix all of that. For every one of those problems, there is That's how you can tell the difference between at the doom-and-gloom side. In 2007, hundreds of journalists were writing would fail because no one could find anything. Larry Page and Sergey Brin looked at that instead of saying that it's going to end the Right now, right in this room... I know for a fact there are several people next application, the next great Lightning the next Ethereum smart contract. It doesn't matter. Build it, make it better. It's too important to lose focus over petty [Applause] I don't care what you build. Build something. Make something better. If you're not a developer, send a help desk create a video, paint a painting, make a poster. Get up in front of your local meetup and describe Everyone has a role to play and that's what Everybody else thinks the cryptocurrency market They look at the seemingly empty field and We're waiting for one good rain, a few days of sunshine, It's going to be even crazier the next time. We will be better prepared, with better applications, And stronger community. Thank you. [Applause] I hope you are all as excited as I am One of my favourite parts of the evening [is] the [Laughter] We have microphones in the center section. If you want to ask me a question, We have about 10 or 15 minutes to go through as many questions as we can fit in that time. Line up behind that microphone [AUDIENCE] Good evening, Mr. Andreas. [ANDREAS] Good evening, indistinct Very nice to meet you. I can't see anything! My question is, what are your thoughts about [ANDREAS] That's a great question. quite interesting is that proof-of-work It was invented by [a few people in the 90s because proof-of-stake systems hadn't been able to work before. I don't know if they will work now [but] I'm optimistic. an interesting way of doing consensus. There are many very smart people If you're involved in [technological innovation], if you use words like &quot;never,&quot; you're more likely to end up [Laughter] who said things couldn't be done. For example, 'heavier-than-air flight is impossible.' 'After the Paris fair, electrification will die as the fad it is.' 'One telephone should be enough for each city.' 'One computer should be enough for each country.' And other great quotes like that, which you can find. I'm not going to ever say you can't do something. I'm actually hopeful, I'm optimistic, and What I can tell you: I think there is a between proof-of-stake and proof-of-work. I think there is something very special about you absolutely cannot get back, which creates what Immutability based on the physics of expended energy, which makes that game theory That has some drawbacks. But compared to what? I think we should add up bank vaults, and all of the other There may be truth to the idea that Just one. I think proof-of-stake becomes more powerful into a truly immutable proof-of-work chain. If the only proof-of-work chain we can afford is Bitcoin, [Applause] [AUDIENCE] Thank you, sir! [AUDIENCE] Good evening, Mr. Antonopoulos. is ASIC-resistance futile? Do we all have to buy an Antminer [ANDREAS] ASIC-resistance is futile. One of the challenges of going to supposedly is that [it is still] possible for people to use them [for mining]. If it's GPU-mining, Not only does it have that really bad side-effect, and it will always be better than a No matter what you do. If we reset the proof-of-work algorithm to we've created a level playing field into which any in spare cash, the operational experience, all of the staffing and warehouses ready to fill with can dominate the space. Whoops! We are actually going to make it even more centralised, Especially for a company that has been obsoleting If you think about it, these companies They are very efficient at it. So if you've just pulled their Rather what I'm interested in, is what happens when We're there now. We're looking at That creates a level of competition which is interesting. There are no more 10x, 100x, The shelf life of one of these ASIC machines, That completely changes all of It's going to take a few years for that to play out. But I think we have just reached peak centralisation [Applause] [AUDIENCE] Thank you. [AUDIENCE] One of the things that You talked about this often tonight. A lot of people show concern over the transaction fees, the regulation and that actually being if we're having to consider that What do you see as the roadmap for regulation the way we would like it to be used? [ANDREAS] I'm not very optimistic about how I don't think it's an accident that reporting requirements that it makes it a nightmare to do your taxes properly, I know [because] I have to do it. When you have to [fill out] a 300-page something is fucked up with this system. What I can tell you is, my accountant is going to make more money than For the work [involved in] reporting. And what is that going to do? Or is that going to stop the United States in Bitcoin? You can get your country out of Bitcoin, [Applause] Money launderers. Criminals. Well, people in Congress, as we recently found out... [ANDREAS] When there's a policy in place that is while the people who are going to break the law anyway you have to question whether the purpose of that policy technology from the '70s and treat us to a 9-to-5, that they call banking. I think that's the real reason It is [another form of] bail-out for the banks, again. But it's going to keep happening and escalating The good news: in the countries where this [technology] the government is corrupt, and the people They're going to use it anyway. If you thought this was going to be easy or that you might be surprised by this. The bottom line is that no matter what they try to do, they cannot stop this technology. [ANDREAS] This is the last question we can do. The Lightning Network is getting its legs underneath it. Second layer solutions. This is a two-part question. 1. Do you think the Lightning Network is going well? going to look like? What is your vision [ANDREAS] I think the Lightning Network is going well. about technology. &quot;Hurry up and invent it for me, The truth is that these things are not easy, but the pace I've been running Lightning nodes for just over 8 months, I think we're going to see more and more applications. I've very excited about some of the Atomic multi-path routing, which allows you to one aggregate payment that routes Which means you don't need to create you can instead create eight small ones and That will lead to more decentralisation There's another technology that's coming along, Various cut-through technologies that allow you to open Or to increase the funding in a channel without That basically cuts through funding These are really the third layer. Of course, one of the which I think might end up being one of its greatest strengths, is that it doesn't specify routing algorithms. Right now we have a very basic, flood-based network. The routing algorithm is fairly simple; That means every node creates its own route That give us a lot of privacy, but it's There's this other network that also decided not to embed the definition and specifications for routing within the base protocol. I don't know if you've heard of it; the protocol is There is not a single line of routing in the TCP/IP One of the interesting things is that on a network of a network of blockchains, routing is something you can do at multiple layers with multiple different algorithms. Simultaneously. There are more than twenty-five Local routing, area routing, long-range routing. yet that technology continues to develop The decision to not put routing into TCP/IP and to progress much faster than the base protocol. That was the third layer. In the Lightning Network, If you think that's a weakness of Lightning, I imagine many different routing protocols One of my ideas that I would love to see implemented For example, I would like to see the ability to route on To be able to only select and route through nodes that guarantee they don't keep logs of There are so many other ways we can do this, This is a massive, active research opportunity that are going to re-invent routing for this new medium. I'm excited to see what comes next.