Translator: Timothy Duffy Hi everyone, as it says, I am Ben Wellington, A data story teller. If you had asked me a year ago I would probably say I have no idea. So today, I am going to tell you where I have accidentally became I'll tell you about what and maybe convince some of you if you are curious and want to. A little about my background. First, I work at an investment where I do data science. So that is sort of one part of my world. But I also married an urban planner, so I've got my computer science and for most of the time, these two sections of my life and that was just the way it was. Until something interesting then Mayor Bloomberg called the Open Data Laws in New York. The Open Data Laws are really exciting that is inside City Government, Whereas before the government &quot;Hey, this neighborhood has now we can see data point by data point When these two things by the way, there was an open data portal it is the NYC open data portal, and there are data sets In fact, there is one on the size of the televisions in Times Square I don't know what to do with that, There are data sets in fact over 1,200 data sets so far. And it is growing all the time. I kind of took this data science work, and my interest in urban planning and put it together in this blog, Awesome, thank you. One of the first things And this is a map of cycling (Laughter) Hilarious injuries-- Red areas are areas where people Then I found this through I notice a few things: one, is there were more cycling because that's where there are But also there were some other hot spots, like Williamsburg in Brooklyn, I wrote about that - and it was more just for me it was this open source software and when I did, something people started to write about it. Gothamist covered it, and Brokelyn claimed which is not exactly what I said. (Laughter) Streets Blog, and then, This is just sort of from a blog and it had no followers, Over the time from there I started to say, I'm not the first one to analyze cyclists What I did wasn't that complicated, And I thought about it, I got to see what was moving around, and I realized that there was a third part That is, you probably are not going Yes, improv comedy. I have been doing improv since I was - Yeah! French Woods alumni! - in upstate New York. I did improv since I was about 13, I have learned a lot of things in improv into this data science I think in order to spread science so I am going to tell you and how they can come together That is why I call it data story telling. First, in stories you want to connect If you are doing an improv scene, you learn that if you are something that people can relate to, how they look you can do a scene through that. People relate to it I tried to write about things and I figured, &quot;What do New Yorkers (Laughter) Right? I thought this might be interesting, I mapped every single building and I colored it by the pharmacy. Orange is Duane Reade, red is CVS, First of all, this neighborhood, No question. I also learned that CVS and Rite Aid (Laughter) Good strategy CVS, Duane Reade will not see you coming. (Laughter) I thought to myself, &quot;Is Duane Reade It turns out, no, it's a Manhattan thing. If we zoom out even more, Brooklyn and Queens are patchwork. If you work for one of those companies For me, it's interesting just wondering and how we can quantify them That's something we can all relate to, and that's part of story telling, I noticed that you want In an improv scene, you can try to have seven ideas going, In my work I try to focus on one idea, It is interesting, there are people there is a lot of data. What if we take one idea, Here, I mapped the percent of male What we can see is in this neighborhood, This is a very male-dominant What does that tell us? It could be about It could be a study Also, if you are looking go to Brooklyn, that's important. (Laughter) The important thing here There are many columns, it is The other thing is keep it simple. Not just one idea, but one simple idea. Ideas can be very complex &quot;This guy goes here, and this, and this,&quot; So I also try to keep it simple. So when people hear that I do math But it is more like this. (Laughter) I mean, I just count things. I do sum, maybe I do a percentage. This is all just high school math, People can really do this if they stop An example: I looked from out-of-state plates We see in this neighborhood, coming in from out-of-state Which is telling; that's people driving and as we get farther out in our boroughs there are less travelers, I also wanted to do this per state. Midtown, yes, it shows in the data that people from New Jersey Connecticut, Coming in from the north. They are going to And my absolute favorite, Californians, The hippest parts of Brooklyn: that is where people It can tell us so much about our city Also, explore the things You all come from different fields. You know the things that you know. You know the area you study I am learning New York, so I focus on New York. In an improv if you are a lawyer, that scene will be good, You can play it to the very top I tried with other cities, but it is hard For today, I did an analysis &quot;What can we all relate to?&quot; I was curious where people catch cabs That is 8th Avenue over here, are catching cabs at 8th Ave. Less so heading south on 7th Ave. You can see that the big yellow blurb so that makes sense. But really people are heading What is interesting here Where do you think people get out of cabs? They get out more on cross streets. If you are catching a cab somewhere, you give the person the address They're not dropping you off on the corner That doesn't happen. What I really, really liked about this was depending on the direction of the street, There is 7th Ave: if you come in you seem to get off Why? You ever get a cab stuck You can actually see it in the data; you can see people get out Depending on the direction of the street, because they are probably And this is interesting, right? If you do advertising in the district, where to welcome them, We can start to study With this, you want to try I've tried to make it in City Government, Each of you have your own ways In particular, I did one proof, that no matter how many times you ride you cannot get a $0.00 balance. (Laughter) Literally, it is not just you, You literally cannot get a $0.00 balance, There is a trick, you can type When I wrote about this, I said, alright maybe this is an impact. And they said: &quot;These machines do not hold and the denominations are suggested to accommodate customers That being said, we will certainly look in rolling out the next scheduled (Laughter) So, the fare increase is coming. Imagine in March, where you say, &quot;I want $20 on a MetroCard,&quot; &quot;How much would that be?&quot; As opposed to now, &quot;I'm going to pay $20&quot;. &quot;We'll give you a random Imagine if we switched that, We'll see if the MTA follows through, I also found something strange, the tipping is based on So if you get into a Verifone cab you are actually paying 20% and a little bit of a surcharge. If it's run by Creative Mobile Technology, and you hit the 20% button, So for two different computers, you are paying more tips in one because it's calculating tip Is this all a big deal? Well, those drivers are making by this little bit of rounding. We have half our cabs and the drivers as well, which isn't When I pointed this out &quot;We appreciate the work and we're giving it a thorough read.&quot; (Laughter) Impact. (Laughter) I'm working on it. And my favorite was this: These aren't just any fire hydrants. These are the fire hydrants mapped by the amount of parking ticket These are the top 250 culprits in NYC. First, on the Upper East Side watch out, the 19th Precinct will ticket you More interesting were these two hydrants and they were generating Two hydrants, $55,000 Finally, the data is public, I had a look, and when I went it turns out that there is basically and then a parking spot. So you go thinking you are not there is a bike lane between us. It turns out that while the DOT painted So they would ticket the spot This is actually a shot and it caught the ticket, I wrote about that, &quot;While DOT has not received we will review the roadway markings That is an action statement, I thought to myself, &quot;Well Government, And, suddenly, they repainted the spot. Yeah! Impact! (Applause) Somebody is listening, this is great. You can look at your data Sometimes, your message but where I know a statement was made, I know I've at least changed that somebody thinks about those things. I consider those to be making To do that, once again, I think you really need like connect with people, and explore the things that you know best. In case you think that it is for computer people, I teach a class in statistics and in our second day of class which is a list of accidents this analysis of injuries by vehicle type. And this is just from one this is not some crazy programming thing. If you are scared of that, this is a data set of graffiti And a student in a program - which brings students it is a high school semester program - a student named Abby created this map. So if you are scared Understanding where graffiti is in NYC. It is not about being a computer person, you just have to know what questions I just hope everyone realizes Thank you. (Applause)