If your taste in TV is anything like what analog computing looks like probably Columbo. Since digital took over the world, like a niche interest at best. But this retro is both making a comeback, and also something I found this out for myself about a year my curiosity about analog computing. After that, and I gotta say...it broke my brain a bit. What How can analog computing impact our like? Because I definitely don't I'm Matt Ferrell ... welcome to Undecided. This video is brought to you by Surfshark and all Depending on how old you are, you may remember take up more square footage than your average Space Age and the advent of personal computers, Some proponents of analog computing argue that comes to how much further we can shrink. We'll Speaking of bits, this brings us to the and digital. Analog systems have an infinite from 68 F to 72 F, the temperature would including 68.0000001 F and so on. Digital or the number of transistors that are an 8-bit system has 2^8, or 256 states. That So, size isn't the only aspect of the computers solve problems in a fundamentally to some pretty amazing stuff in modern day...at is becoming increasingly popular. Just look at released last year by Swedish telecommunications communication technology sector accounted for Plus, a significant amount of digital go. Just among the thousands of data centers size is approximately 100,000 square feet (or than 2 acres of land! Data scientist interaction with a LLM is equivalent to "leaving But as the especially power-hungry data centers, continue to grow in scale and complexity...we still efficiency isn't just good for the planet, computing could be part of the solution. The same tasks as you would on a digital setup analog computing is as much as 1,000 times Before we get into exactly how it works and why computers again, I need to talk about another digital life and that's today's sponsor, use VPN full of incredible features that you can account. Most of the time when we talk about VPNs travel around the world, but it can do way more IP address is coming from somewhere else in the like streaming services. But ... that's not gate prices based on your location, so you can the best prices. They also have add-ons to their which will let you know if your email or personal in a data breach. Right now they're running a to 3 additional months for free. SurfShark so there's no risk to try it out for yourself. Link is in the description below. Thanks And thanks to all of you, as well as my patrons, back to how much more energy efficient analog To understand how that works, exactly, we computing...analog. The same way you would make analog computers operate using a physical the problem being solved. And yeah, A classic example of analog computing is the or MONIAC, which sounds like a long forgotten car 1949. MONIAC has a single purpose: to simulate Within the machine, water represented money as Phillips determined alongside his colleague with an approximate accuracy of +-2%. And you can still find the first churning away It's safe to say that the MONIAC worked for other types of analog computers, from like the pocket-sized mechanical to the behemoth tide-predicting In general, it was never that analog computing still use flight computers, a form of slide no juice necessary. But for more generalized of convenience that analog couldn't. Incredible To put things into perspective, an iPhone above 3 GHz, depending on the model. digital device onboard the spacecraft ran at...0.043 MHz. As computer science "the iPhone in your pocket has over 100,000 times man on the moon 50 years ago." ... and we use it In any case, that ease of use is one of the abacuses were relegated to museum displays So much for "ruling." But, while digital it has its limits. And mathematician evangelist" Bernd Ulmann argues that we can't "Digital computers are hitting basic elements cannot be shrunk much more than today, and there is no way to spend even more It's worth noting here that Ulmann said of improvements in generative AI we've like OpenAI's text-prompt-to-video me and I'm very excited by all at the same But what did he mean by "physical is starting to bump up against the law. There's actually a few that are at play the relationship between digital computing In a 1965 paper, Gordon Moore, co-founder of be known as "Moore's Law." He foresaw that circuit would double every year for the cost. And 10 years later, Moore changed his As Intel clarifies, Moore's Law isn't a scientific his work being referred to as a "law." However, Intel (and other semiconductor companies) more and more transistors on smaller and Here's the problem. What happens when we can't Intel, despite the warnings of experts in the past take it straight from Moore himself, though, inevitable. When asked about the longevity of his "The fact that materials are made of atoms is far away. You can take an electron micrograph from and you can see the individual atoms of advanced transistors is only about three molecular fundamental limits, so one of these days we're Not to mention, the more components you cram and the more difficult it is to cool down. It's on a chip simultaneously without risking a in data centers, because it's not only resource sink. Larger sites that use liquid a day -- think upwards of millions of gallons. Oregon, account for over a Meanwhile, emerging research on new led to the development of materials that Then there's another law that stymies Amdahl's law. And you might be able to get a your wrist. Or your wall. Analog clocks, the kind analog computing. When the hands move forward on the same way analog computing occurs in real time, look at a digital clock, you'll notice that it unlike with analog devices, digital information rather than measure, hence the When a digital computer tackles a problem, of steps that eventually lead to an answer. a completely different procedure, and this cute First, you take note of the physical laws solving. Then, you create a differential blood just ran cold at the mention of is that differential equations model dynamic of change. Differential equations can be used to the progression of zombie apocalypses. And Once you've written a differential equation, each part of the equation into a physical part of which doesn't even necessarily All of that might be tough to envision, so is less convoluted than the labyrinth of wires Let's say two kids want to race to the same One decides to skip along the hopscotch court, These two areas of the playground are You count the hopscotch spaces outlined on but you measure the length of a smooth move. And between these two one is definitely a much quicker process than There are, of course, caveats to analog. example to repeat their race exactly the same would be more accurate? Probably the one whose and whose outcomes will be the same -- landing chalk. With discrete data, you can make perfect the more messy nature of continuous data. The calculations? Some researchers are proposing That said, what does this have to do with Amdahl's a little further. It takes time to remember accordingly. But you don't need to remember any until there isn't anybody else on it." Comment In any case, because digital computers 1. algorithmically, there will always be operations performed sequentially. As computer science reading data, setting up calculations, control can't get rid of these sequential operations, more and more processors in attempts to speed up components forever, and you can't increase On the other hand, analog computers need to take time to access. This allows meaning they can easily break more manageable chunks and divide them Here's how Bernd Ulmann explains it In his 2023 which contributed a considerable "Further, without any memory there no need to synchronize things, nothing of the many trifles that haunt So, you might be thinking: speedier, more but what does it have to do with me? Am I going to Will I need to knock down a wall in my office Probably not. Instead, hybrid computers that analog are what might someday be in vogue. companies secretly chipping away at...analog cost. The idea is to combine the energy digital. This is especially important for machine learning that makes generative products that are far less environmentally And that's exactly what Mythic, headquartered in Analog Matrix Processor chip can "deliver the consumption." Basically, as opposed to storing supply of power, the analog chip stores data keep information intact. Rather than 1s and 0s, Where could we someday see analog computing Aspinity has an answer to that. What it machine learning chip," the AML100, can act as according to its website. It can detect a wake wireless earbuds or smart watch, listen for and monitor heart rates, just to name a few. For those devices that always need to be nothing to sneeze at (although I guess sneezes). Aspinity claims that its chip So, the potential of maximizing efficiency and the world we interact with every day is itself say that analog programming appears intimidating It'll definitely need an image upgrade the public -- though there are already models out if you're brave enough. German company currently offers two: the Analog Paradigm The Model-1 is intended for more experienced themselves. Each one is produced on so you can tailor the modules to your needs. THAT, on the other hand...and by THAT I mean THAT: could also build your own from scratch -- the So what do you actually do I'll let the official wiki's FAQ answer that: "You can use it to predict in the natural to explain in educational settings, to imitate in The THAT model, like any analog computer, differential equation. As a reminder, that's from simulating air flow to solving But as analog computing becomes more lot of work to be done. For one thing, connectivity between analog and digital Until then, what do you think? Should we take are we better off waiting for flying cars? sure to check out my follow-up podcast, Still some of your feedback. Before I go, I'd Charles Bevitt and Tanner. Thanks so much for