So when we think about what motivates people motivates people and what don't we understand And maybe the first misunderstanding is about So we have this idea of we have the right be happy and that's really what we're But think about it. What gives you happiness in a way that is Maybe sitting on the beach drinking a mojito But if you do almost anything that is useful, not the same things. But imagine you have a whole life of sitting How happy would that life be? So the first I think mistake is that we pursue happiness. So we do the things that will make us laugh Not always laugh out loud but kind of like And we don't do the things that are difficult very different sense of happiness. Think about something like running a marathon. You don't see anybody happy. Like if you came as an alien and you image facial expressions as they're running a them. Like they are paying for something terrible their debt to society. But it is kind of miserable but it's also in someone. So we're pursuing momentary pleasure rather happiness is or what meaning is. And then the second thing is that we're people and we have usually a very simple equation And if you're not working hard enough or you enough or not giving you a bonus in the and payment and we say oh, let's change this way and give is slightly big bonuses create point systems for evaluation and all The beauty of human nature is that lots of A sense of accomplishment and achievement, to people at work, competing with other people. All of those things motivate us. So we write a motivation equation we would but so is achievement, sense of progress, And the question is how do we use all of them And in physics people look for the perpetual How do we get energy from nothing, right, In motivation there is something like that In one of them the business doesn't care In one of them they care deeply. In the first business people are miserable not making lots of money. In the second one people could be happier, be much more productive and efficient. Everybody wins when we invest in deep motivation. One of the first experiments we did on the It wasn't like big meaning, it was little And here is what we did. We got people to come to the lab and we say pay you three dollars for this bionical. And people built their bionical. We took it, we put it under the desk and we two dollars and seventy cents? If the say yes we gave them the next one. And then the next one for thirty cents less decide stop, no more. And we told all of those people that when bionical, we'll break them into pieces and That was what we call the meaningful condition. It's not really meaningful but it is meaningful In the next condition which we internally same way. We said to people would you like to build doing it. When they finished we took it from them. We kept it on the desk and then we said would If they said yes they started building the the second bionical we took the pieces apart So we destroyed it in front of their eyes. And then we put it back in the box and then for thirty cents less. And if they said yes we gave them back the And this way we continued back and forth. And we called this the sisyphic condition mythology he was sentenced to push a rock the rock would roll back and he had to do And the idea was that if there were different different hills maybe he would feel some progress. But having to do the same hill over and over And what happened? Kind of a couple of interesting things. The first one is that people stopped much The second one is we asked people how much And we wanted to see whether there's a correlation much they persisted in this task. And what we saw was that in the meaningful People who loved Legos did more bionicals. People who didn't like Legos internally In the sisyphic condition the correlation away the joy of assembling Legos. Because you see the people who love Legos Somehow the joy of it just went away. The other interesting insight from this study in which people did not engage in building and we asked the students to predict how other So we said okay, you have an environment with meaning. How many bionicals will people build differently And we paid people for the accuracy of their What happened? People predicted that the difference will build more. But they predicted it would be only one bionical So we understand that meaning matters but In fact, it matters a lot. People built almost four more bionicals. So there was a big gap and people don't And if you think about it as a manager actually people. It could be a school teacher, it could be to motivate people you have to understand And if you think that meaning has a very small Only if you understand how big and important