- Well, you've probably heard me talk about my wardrobe has really made life easier, but has also given me a lot But I know it's not exactly for everyone. So today we're gonna visit with Courtney to talk about how you can put some safely simplify your to see if you could get by But this was one of my favorite things highly simplified wardrobe. - But chances are even if your closet you're doing the challenge already. You're probably wearing a very But what's so weird or is that all of that other stuff, you have an emotional reaction Even if you don't really clock it can impact your mood. I used to be kind of bummed out that things, that I still even though I was so excited to Like all of that really can weigh there is really this sense of - So glad to have Courtney Carver with I think you're maybe most where you help us highly So can you tell us a little bit - Well, I started Project 333 in 2010. So forever ago, it feels like now. And I started it shortly after I to talk about what to do with my closet, because it was so out of control. And I always had this kind of slow I didn't want to do anything too fast. I didn't want anything to be too I just couldn't make progress for new clothes was relieving stress. And so I was all into relieving growing and there just didn't and I decided to create a sample simplicity in the closet - And I think many of us can relate to nothing to wear. And I think is feeling like I have all Why is it still so And so what did you find the first What did you find? - Well, what was so interesting is that I decided Which normally I would have most but I had a lot of clothes in And so I got everything together and really feel that shock of, oh my gosh, look what you spent your money on. And look at what you never or didn't even remember that you had. I wanted to be a little habits. And then from there I used the to 33 for three months, and So I wasn't making really complicated What should I sell? I just didn't want to think about it And so for three months, all I had were 33 items and that and shoes. So clothing items were closet and including outerwear. And the first day I thought, oh, this is not gonna be enough. People are gonna notice because I I just had a lot of nervousness around it. But I also had this sense of, wow, Like I'm not gonna have to These are the only clothes They're all clothes I enjoy for the it wasn't like, oh, I And then I expected to go for three But today many, many, many years later I still dress with - Yeah. That's awesome. So let's go through some of the So you said it includes So like it's winter here in Minnesota. And my winter boots? - So yes. so winter coat, scarf, I wouldn't include it if it was or hiking. If it was totally just workout - Okay. And you don't include workout correct? - Correct. However, workout So we're in this age right now workout clothes and real life it's all very confusing. And more than ever I just want to And so if I'm including a pair of leggings in and live in, I'm gonna count then I won't count it. - Okay. And what if I am someone Did people at your job really not notice over and over again for three months? - Okay. So people at my work really did not months, I don't even And what was so interesting about So I worked for magazines. And there was a time where a story about Project 333, and they actually sent it to our dots together. So that was great. And what was so freeing about were noticing more And so to realize that people maybe they don't care about a So perhaps I don't have to factor that changes. - Yeah. And so do you feel like then, either for yourself or if you've seen can you have pieces that have personality vanilla so everything mixes and matches? - So that kind of goes with that last fashion? So I have seen this challenge ways. And some people enjoy a Some people enjoy lots Some people have used it as an opportunity they're mixing and matching. just want everything so I don't have to think about It doesn't take away that fashion sense, if that's something that's interesting how am I approaching this Is it by constantly adding to my closet Or am I really learning how to color in a way that works for me? - Yeah. And so is this considered, if you go through the exercise and is this considered a capsule wardrobe I think it falls under because it's a small you've decided to work with And you may change that out it is a capsule wardrobe. - And so has there ever been a time now, over the last 12 years since that you felt like you didn't have enough dressed for an occasion that you had? - No. The only thing that happened, that I thought was kind of a fun thing, but I didn't think that in that moment we were waiting for a train and we had to my coffee and I was wearing a And I took a big sip of my And so there was more coffee which is sad on so many am I gonna wear a stained shirt Or am I gonna go and And I went and got a different shirt. So I always say that this is That's not what it's about. It's about learning about what you And for some people that's 22 items. So there's not but it's a great place to start. Yeah. I think that's good, because I think a lot of us are just comes to our clothing. I think it's such a great starting I'm listening to you today. I'm like, Do I make my bed and start Like how practically - So the way that I start the clothes I think I would want So depending on what time of year it I would make a list. And the list is probably gonna And I wouldn't do it in So I would do it separately so that And that. Instead, remove yourself what pants am I normally wearing? What shirts? What coats? And then But chances are, even if your closet you're doing the challenge already. You're probably wearing a very - I couldn't believe, once I and my whole thing was I am only gonna option for today. That fit right And it was a very small amount of simplifying. But I couldn't believe how, how much better I felt about myself. I did not realize how much that you used to be able to fit into you spent money on it. I couldn't believe that positively about myself and my clothing, now that that stuff is it is such a gift that And it's totally irrelevant It's saying that right now, I'm gonna have 33 pieces - Yeah. I think there's this inner goes something like, I have Like it's my job to fit into my clothes. that's a reflection on me in a bad way. And I reject that completely. I think it's our clothes' job to fit us. So if there's something that doesn't fit, exchange it or replace it for I'm just gonna hold on to this for this. While we're telling ourselves we're spending so much energy what aren't we doing in the meantime? And what could we be doing that's more into these jeans or whatever. So you just set us aside the extra items. And so let's say we We're really enjoying having Now what do we do with maybe there are some high-quality pieces Did you keep any of the extra What was your approach to that? - So this is where I brought and I decided at the end or I would go back to the stuff, take Take other stuff out that wasn't And then assess what was there. there were some things that were so again. A lot of chunky jewelry, like I wanted a necklace to That didn't resonate So those were really easy to And I didn't end up it was just such a frustrating I had heard from other people. And I know there are ways to do it stores, but you have to really And is this gonna be worth it for sending it out or doing all the things? And for me it wasn't worth it to do that. And so I would just let go of some stuff. And then after every season there even more. And I think it probably took me a gone. And so now I have my 33 container where everything lives - I love that, because I think Am I going back to work? Am I Will I lose the extra And so I think that's great to be detach ourselves from it a little associated and then just to be able this idea that even if we have gained well, I don't want to buy a whole new wardrobe committing for the rest of my or whatever the games we say in our I just need 33 pieces still. And most likely my shoes still So it's not actually that many to have a wardrobe that fits - Right. And spoiler alert, our bodies are always changing Like that is just how bodies work. So there are gonna be times that or that you might fit back not making that a primary focus, - What are the other common questions about this? - So some of the common objections sometimes as soon as I mention shoes, But one thing to consider is that there decide you're just not going to count. or jewelry is a deal breaker. That's okay. Don't throw away the whole challenge Break the rules a little bit. People And probably the biggest thing Like, how does this affect And interestingly, it doesn't. It except I probably take better I line dry almost all of my clothes. But I also don't have any darks and towels and everything together. Which I know people are they're so horrified I just I've survived it for many, many - Yep. Us too. That's I've talked a little bit about even that kind of like you mentioned, there There is the risk involved that if you there could be an occasion where you don't have an extra one with you. But I think we both would agree that outweigh the risks that, at least So what have been some of the testimonies or men, I guess, that have tried this? What are some of the testimonies - Yeah, so many. So things like I've saved so much money because I have so much more energy because and trying to get in on this deal and People talk about being ready on That was certainly the case for me. And probably the ones that really who say, I used to really have a lot of anxiety simple change, changed there's so much that's out But if we can really think about these them, then we have more - Yeah. Yeah. That's if anyone wants to learn more or find out what's the best way for them to do that? - They can go to BeMoreWithLess.com - Thank you so much for being I really hope that and at least does their own version of it, cause I think there's just - Yes, I agree. - So we'll put along with more information what do you have to lose? I think I hope you have a great day