- What was your reaction when you either saw or touched my fake arm hair for the first time? (laughing) I think I saw you when you saw it, your eyes went, like-- - Yeah, I think that the instinct was to be very gentle with it. - Thank you. - Just an eye, like that's artwork. Don't wanna mess that up. Yeah, how did you feel? Remind me, what was that like? What was-- - It was an hour in the morning to get on. - That was brutal. - And then about 30 to 40 But anytime I would cross my arms, my arms will like get stuck together, so I was just kind of - How would you describe - I would say witty. Tender. - Aww. - And needed. - What do you mean by needed? - Well, I think for me, when I first read the I can't think of many films, teenage coming-of-age films, that have showed female in such a humorous, but I think we've seen the male but not the female's. I actually-- I do have a question for you. You have been with this film The short film a couple of years ago, to making the feature, then we go to South by Southwest, and now finally, it's coming I guess, what is your that, you know, the film's we won best ensemble? How does that make you feel? - It was, you know, really In some ways it's felt like the little film that could. I think the accolades It is needed. I think it is so different about females and female that it was kind of a that it might off-put some people. But not moreso the fact that I think some of the best art is challenging, and even if people didn't I think even if it just and makes people think. But yeah, I mean of course and, you know, we've put So Wolfgang, in what ways could you relate to your character? - You know, it's funny actually, when I first read the script, Chris instantly made me You know, the football player? So, I spent a lot of time when I was preparing before shooting, using, kind of, Tim Tebow and source of inspiration. So, I would study a lot of interviews and speeches he had given. Every morning before heading to set, I actually, kind of, made a playlist of what I thought Chris would listen to as this devout Catholic kid in Iowa. - So, different kinds and even some hymns, to kind of just put me in So, every morning I'd go and that'd be my playlist. - So, your character plays this, Do you feel like you're a - Now how do you say this without sounding completely arrogant? Yeah, I enjoy being in leadership roles. I'm the oldest of seven kids, I was a point guard when I've produced and acted in some plays. So, I enjoy, kind of, being in a place to give other people So yeah, I enjoy that and - I will support you in that. I definitely get that energy from you, that you're just someone who, I because you're somebody and then also is like, &quot;Come with me.&quot; So, yeah, I will-- that's For me, I think, you know, understanding that there are people People kind of following And young people watching maybe it was never inherently my intention going into acting to be a role model, or to show people how to be. But I think when you it kind of makes you check yourself You know, be the person And I think that there's an I'm not perfect, none of and they're just people, and, you know, trying to figure it out. - You know, for me personally, I started professionally acting just about three years ago now. And now, as you start to do-- For me doing interviews people ask, &quot;So what attracted And I'm like, &quot;Well, I and this was the one I got.&quot; &quot;And I took the job 'cause But I think because I'm where I'm making choices, I'm just trying to just and hopefully continue to grow. To be a part of a film like I just remember being and you, last year and seeing the response to the film, and how proud Karen was, I was like, &quot;Gosh, I got really lucky.&quot; &quot;I'm really proud to - It doesn't, yeah, it - Yeah. - I think you're totally-- I do think there's that thing as an actor do you have? 'Cause a lot of times you are just waiting for someone to, kind of, play pretend with other people. You know, it is something about like, why am I taking this role? Is this something? Is this story, is the message, the And a lot of it's out of as far as what ends up being But, it's definitely And, you know, working to and the right voices. - You know, I kind of think that we all, you know, admire, that are working, you know, with or have the opportunity based on their name. And I think if either of get to that position, then I do think, you know, to create opportunities for people that maybe haven't had them. And to try to create a inclusive and diverse environment around you. Yeah, I think if you're lucky you gotta. &quot;To whom much is