Have you figured it out yet? How we knew you were coming. We will not tolerate Western interference. Frank Dale Hoard in Angola, he's just returned from a laundry list Our best opportunity is now. Copy that. There is something else. Dale and his wife Bring the little girl in. Don't you hurt my little girl? Don't worry, Did you see what you did? She's all yours. Hello, Alex. My name is Montgomery, Do you remember me? I'm a friend of your dad. Use your left. You're dropping your guard, Alex. Guard up. All right, settle down. Let's show off. You see. Her physical capabilities are astonishing. The new psych profile is also encouraging. I'm sure one day You do a wonderful job for us, sir. I realize it can be tough but know how much E-7685 is important to you, isn't she? Very much, sir. Well, when the time comes, Yes, I know. Your little secret Coco Chanel Mademoiselle. Your company didn't have What do you want? The results of Alex's assessment. Okay. Let's just say you schooled her well. She's an exceptional trainee. What's next? Advanced conditioning program. Elite skills training, all of that shit. What do I need to know? Only Alex is something very special. Maybe for you. For me, Not this one, Casey. Not this one. Does she remember You mean that she remember you? No, she has repressed all of that horror. Don't you dare fuckin judge me. I despise you, Casey. You and all of your methods. My job right now is to give her the skills Well, meanwhile, I will keep You, Lomax, are not untouchable. You remember that. Okay, I'll make a note. Until the day, though, Fuck you. You're welcome. This is level two evaluation. Have that report I want to put E-7685 into play. She's not ready. We have a sizable investment here. It's time we soar a return. She's not ready. You've had assets in the field Each assignee is unique, this is my territory. I work with minds and souls. You push a pen. My assessment says she's ready. I'm the one who has to sign off on her. For the time being, and don't you ever question Next. Okay, let's keep going. Memorandum 105, please. You're the best medical researcher Way too sexy to be a scientist. How was the test Interesting. Erroneous dosages over time, can significantly affect Conceivable results Remember when Margaret Capehart Beach. I told you one day I'm thinking of retiring. I just have one more job to complete. Another six months and that be it. -Your training is going well. You're fast and strong. A formidable adversary. Do you think you can fight for real I think so. Okay. I'm sick of your crap. -Hey, does she knows me? Hey, look at me. -Look. Get out. Who are you with? Fucking whore. Who the fuck are you? Are you all right, miss? Fuck you. What the fuck do you want now? What would you rather do? Play games or make some money? -Money. Are you okay, Monty? Yes, of course. I'm introducing a new dimension It's necessary for your evaluation. Why are you telling me now? Because that's just the way Get out of the car and start walking. Hey, why don't you get over here Go for gold at the end Get out of the way. Come here, Hold it down. Oh, get off. You protected yourself bravely. I was scared. I know. You did the right thing to kill that thug. All those people needed to die. That way, it makes it safer How can I tell who You'll know. Like Mr. Reddy. You've got good instincts. You need to listen to me Do not trust Richard Reddy or any He is a man of wildfire lies and he Look at what they did to my baby girl. The loss of innocence Thank you. Alex? Sit down for a second. Open it. I don't have much time, Alex, that's for you. What is it, Monty? Something that hopefully Are you okay? Yes, I'm fine. When I'm gone, they've all chosen hyena Leave and everything and get out quickly. That will help you. You're dismissed now. Monty? Lomax died. Yes. We're a good team, aren't we? You bet. I did good, didn't I? You did great. What do we know? A myocardial infarction. It's a heart attack. Autopsy also revealed our It's ironic he didn't smoke. Status on E-76085. What was the name? -Alex? She's in the wind. I guess we can consider Right if our loss is immediate. Retrieval and debriefing I agree, send out the dispatch It seems E-7685 has been trained well. You do know that every attempt I'll handle it. Take five in position in front The subject has been located. Enough hide and seek, Do you really want to do this? You're just a girl. [Spanish spoken audio] Hello, Alex. I can't help you now, but maybe this money Give you a chance for a new start. Did Monty train you? Yes. Me coming after you, You can't do it in cold blood, can you? It's okay. Being ruthless isn't easy. That's God's domain. I'm going to walk away and choke my little fuck up It's what Monty would have wanted. Do you have a family? No. That's what Monty would have wanted. Tact-3 is on site. Law enforcement on route Tact-3, minimal public recommends Authorized. The subject is on the move. Tact-3, be advised She's behind the black truck. Don't underestimate this bitch. She's good. This is not good, Mickey. The boys have got her capped, It's time to get out of here. Fuck. -Don't you say it. That's a wild fucking west out there. Contract agents are and blunt-force trauma is not the answer. I know we need something Like what? I'll handle the new dispatch. Clean-up is now out of your hands. I never saw it coming. Only when it's gone. Don't be naive. What about operational leverage? Like I said, Come in, I said empty Till now. Empty the Till now. I said empty the till now. I'm not kidding, get the money out. Get down on the ground! I said get on the ground or I shoot. Do it now, get on the floor. [Spanish spoken audio] Give me the disc Are you all right? All units, shots have been fired The female suspect is in her mid-20s, She is armed and considered dangerous, This is my crime scene. Not anymore. Who are you? Higher up the food chain than you. Now you back the fuck up. Mr. Bahl, did you see -Didn't you see two men gunned down? Did you see anything, baby? Well, I wasn't exactly -I didn't even get to see her face. She came up that aisle armed, What a flock of seagulls see. Two guys waving large caliber handguns, He didn't see her face. No one ID'd the shooter, Great. Is that working? Yes. Our girl had the presence of mind You might want Gentlemen, this is Big Phanom. Big Phantom. Why are we talking There's the shooter, Mr. Law Man and then bounced as if nothing happened, I've ever seen aside from me, of course. I'll get a reward, right? Hey, can I get my phone back? -What is this? Last night, in the process of holding up a market. She's a crusader now. I have the police reports. Flush her out and end it, Do you have a problem with that? The morality of killing is not something Mostly, it just feels like the right thing I have no problem with that. She doesn't work for you anymore. -Let's go, what are you, fucking deaf? Jesus, hell, you can pick him. How are you these days? You might be made of pretty stuff, Ellie. You're a real fucking bitch, That's what you love about me. Go and get me that little girl. Hello. Is anyone there? Hello. Missing person reports have been filed. How's it going? She's blindfolded in a filthy basement, How do you think? I want her photo Blanket coverage. Where's the girl? She is with Becky. I want to see her Hand over your hardware. Look, we have enough guns on you What do you think is going You're going to kill me. Thought had crossed my mind. You embarrassed us out there. Your people need to be trained better. Like you? We're not going to kill you, Alex. You have shown These are the analysis. She's tough -Can she be of value? We break it down, We put the pressure on her, constant physical and mental duress, and we crush her spirit. -How long? You have a month. I don't get it, Alex. You put yourself through all of this for a little girl Backy. We would have got you eventually. You are solely responsible Deep down, a killer hides. I'm going to find her. Well, if it isn't Jack Kinzer, how's business? As long as there are assholes business is good. What do we have here? This young lady is way off the grid. We have to bring it back to the fold. Runaway trains are my speciality. Which is why you are here, Jax. May I? Come on, Alex, you can do this. You need to do this, you want this, Alex? Can you hear me? All of this can be over. You know what we want. It's only what you were trained for. It's natural. It's all part of keeping the order. Can you hear me? Good girl. You know what you have to do. Good girl. All your pain is gone. You are now mine, There are things about you I know your demons, I know your wounds, It's only God who knows your master, Alex. The proposed action Mr. Marco travels with 24-hour security, -When and where? Mr. Casey here is charged Good. Which mechanic will you use? Reprogramming was successful. There is a positive response I read the report and support packages. I, however, do not share May I remind you that E-7685 did lay waste My point exactly. She made them all look like rank amateurs. Well, then it's your call, Mr. Casey. Are you from around here? -I haven't seen you here before. -I'm Dane. Pleased to meet you, Alex. Without sounding too forward, Around. In other words, What do you do? Public relations. Who's that for? Capehart and Brooks. They're an investment firm in town. It sounds important. Not really. What about you? I'm a musician, Really, where? You said I didn't count. the way I kick and scream so pick up a little piece. Get hold of myself, Get hold of myself, You said I didn't count the way I kick so pick up the pieces. I was watching you back there. Ron, why was that? In a room of serious hotties, Here's the deal. The private party back at my penthouse I got Cristal champagne on ice and high As tempting as it sounds. No, thanks. Where do you think you're going? Get your paws off me. Boy cock sucking bitch. That was amazing, What do you like? Some martial arts expert or something. It's important for people What do you do? Karate or Jiu-jitsu. Can we talk about something else? Sure. Like what? How about you? My favorite subject? I think we're past all the small talk, And? Well, until I saw what you did I had planned to kiss you this evening. Then again, Really spices things up, but I think I've pressed my luck I'll see you tomorrow. Maybe. Be careful, I am the perfect gentleman. You better be, she's a virgin, so go easy. No problem. I am your eyes and ears out there. Meet Ghazi Malouf, a real shit-stirrer, -Monty. I came back to tell you that you are not I know what Casey is doing to you. I know what he wants you to become, I don't know what's real anymore. I'm lost. You need to be strong now. You can't fight back. You okay? I'm heading out of town for a few days. To where? In a state work-related. What are you going to do there? Boring stuff. You can tell me I'm interested to know. Why? How exactly are you planning Will you use a gun, Are you trying That life is not for you? Get him out of the way. -What's up? -What do you mean? Something's fucked up, Yes, I have that feeling too. What are you going to do? I know how this is going to go down, Relax. What if Ghazi Malouf knew she was coming? -He'd kill her. What happened off-shore What do you want to kill her for? You're the one It's a bit full-on, isn't it? and she may already have, That will fuel revenge You, my friend, We are not talking We are talking about a highly-strong Now, do you want Because I don't. Your masters are blind fools, bumbling through international politics They have no concept of... You're from a culture and drug addiction chic. You're weak, You're not an enemy we fear. Have you figured it out yet, Know this young lady. My associates will make an example of you We will not tolerate Western interference. Fifty-seven minutes ago, at the Islamia College There has also been no communication We must assume the asset has expired. Given these developments, His potential as an asset Jumping in and out of bed for serious blowback. Ghazi Maloof must not be touched under the guise We have arranged a lecture tour for him The media is going to love The approach will be made then, incentives will be both financial If receptive, we will develop Malouf amongst the more radical of communities. If not, then Mr. Casey will supervise They gave me amnesia. Lester Casey. He and his men have been fanning That dignifies hatred, violence, I'm sorry. I was once like you, Alex. They pulled the strings I don't blame you, though. Our enemies are the same Young, old, and sometimes those who claim Thank you for helping me. I've arranged for your travel documents, Do you remember Do you remember It's time you do. You need to know. You need to remember now. Hello. -It's Alex. I know it's been some time. I thought you'd vanished. I just had some personal stuff Okay. How have you been? Good, and what about you? Good, please meet me out front Okay, I look forward to it. Bye. -What? Our girl didn't depart this world I'd be impressed with that. I'm meeting her in an hour. You know what you got to do, right? Really? Get it done. It is the interfering nature that should be scrutinized. These overt displays of hypocrisy of regional friction. -What about Iran? Iran should be allowed The United States is nuclear ready Why not Iran? You've got to be kidding. I'm serious young lady. Why don't you all come to my lecture All your questions shall be answered. A gift from the weak, Are you okay? Is there anything we can do? Hey, how have you been? I'm okay. You look good. Are you hungry? -No. How about we go somewhere quiet? What did you have in mind? How long have you been working for Casey? What? How long were you his snitch? Casey hired me as a babysitter, that's it. Believe me, I didn't want it I cared about you, Alex. -You're a liar. When he fed me to Ghazi Malouf, He would have buried me. Are you going to kill me now? Things will get twisted in this business. Is it done? Not quite. Let's get this over Same time next week. Put your gun where I can see it. You killed my parents. It was just a job. Why was I the one We all need killers, Alex. I'm not that. You are fighting a war Look at you, you're afraid and lost. I'm the only one who understands that You don't possess me, We'll do what you came here to do. You better shoot than that. We're going to make a great team. There is serious money Trust me. &quot;I want you to know &quot;and I wish I could have been &quot;Much longer.&quot; &quot;This world has no tolerance &quot;The weak will always seek out &quot;but never betray your beliefs.&quot; &quot;Trust your instincts &quot;Your life is now yours to live.&quot; &quot;I love you forever, Monty.&quot;