Cardiovascular disease has been the number and statistically, it's the number one most interested in learning more about it. It brings and then, "clogged arteries." And I'm to college and learned the mechanism behind a direct result of diet. Like if I put too clogging my arteries. But it turns out that's disease is a catch-all for a bunch of different go into what causes each kind. But the structure isn't the heart necessarily, it's those changing organs that deliver blood throughout but in experiencing different climates, exercising, In the last few videos, we've been talking about the components of blood, which includes a bunch of specialized cells. We've got red blood cells for carrying and the white blood cells that make up a big talked about the hardware that contains them system comes in. If you prefer calling it -- they're the same thing. In this video, gives away its pieces: the heart, hence the which is the vascular part. Now, the heart dedicate an entire series to it, but for now, those tubelike structures that transport blood look at the cardiovascular system, you'll networks, like a figure eight. One of those right side of the heart to the lungs, picks This loop's pretty straightforward, only is where important gas exchange happens, letting waste we've built up in our blood and capture is nice and oxygenated it comes back to the circulation, the loop that hits everything from the everything about this, the systemic after getting ejected from the left side of the biggest artery we have. This artery is up into the neck and brain and down the body to individual tissues and organs, they'll into microscopic blood vessels called capillaries. red blood cells have to line up cell by cell Not all of our arteries are built the same. Big arteries close to of pressure. And I don't mean their parents their math homework, I mean physical pressure this pressure, they're built to be more pressure. As we get to the arteries of the giving them more control of their diameter. as more than just static tubes. An artery tunica externa, media, and intima. Literally artery. They all serve a different purpose, cardiovascular disease. The tunica externa, its general shape and structure. The tunica which, as you could tell by the name, gives got a layer of contractible muscle around from the skeletal muscles in your arms and blood vessel which provides a little more how wide the artery becomes. Why is this so expand our blood vessels comes in handy in at exercise for example. Right now, you're and steady -- around sixty to a hundred beats of blood will pump out of your heart in the all of your oxygen-hungry tissues at rest, in order to ship more oxygen to those tissues, frequently your heart pumps, and stroke volume, pump. For most of us, that means the five at rest can get up to thirteen liters a minute a trained athlete. That means your arteries blood volume coming through. They do so by tunica media relaxes, which expands the diameter situation, your arteries can vasoconstrict warm in cold temperatures. Those changes in media, but there's still one more layer interna, has a little more smooth muscle and with super smooth endothelial cells. These a low friction surface and make sure blood as possible. So all in all these arteries and a middle layer that changes the diameter All of this sets us up to understand how we to a "clogged artery". Okay, so this process Arteriosclerosis is the buildup of plaque with normal function, and it can happen in names with a little more pizazz though, a dang, I don't want that" but the pathogenesis brain get blocked, we call that a stroke or blocked we call that a heart attack. And when get oxygen, and that can cause severe damage There are a few different ways it can begin, but at some point, the from earlier, this layer's job is to be through. And a bunch of different factors high blood pressure, diabetes all predispose For instance, smoking reduces the availability blood vessels to vasodilate, and increases even worse. But no matter what causes the from the blood sneak under that layer of endothelial where immune cells are called to the scene, lipids into foam cells. Foam cells sound cute, cells also recruit more smooth muscle to the collagen, which is definitely not supposed bump you've got a tough, fibrous plaque. until blood can barely get through an artery oxygen to really start to suffer. So again, from plaque buildup and not some kind of buttery But that doesn't mean it's not dangerous. That plaque can break open, which means now there's a blood clot free floating in your arteries. the heart is so deadly. If that loose blood oxygen can't get to the heart muscle itself This is one of the reasons why healthcare heart disease. It has the ability to reduce bad cholesterol, but it also improves your that improves blood flow. One of the other cells, but how does that happen? Tune in to I'm Patrick Kelly, thanks for watching