(utensils clinking) - I love to eat at home but eating in a restaurant and sometimes you want because there are things which are a bit more Not even more difficult but sometime a bit more esoteric or you don't even think of And this is what we have today, a kind of corner bistro where the restaurant at the corner that everyone and you And that exists a lot in France and I'm going to do a This is fennel and it come with It is the same family than the dill also, but others there a big in the bottom. And that's what we use here. This of course can be used for decoration. It can be used in many things, and it does grow wild in the What happens very often in they dry it out. And you can buy it in pieces like wood and that you use to flambe fish. For example, there is a that you grill and after it's grilled, you put those dry pieces of And eat all that taste of So here what we are going to do, (knife slicing) it really slice that in very thin slice. Because we wanna blanch it otherwise, it's a little bit too tough. I mean, you can use it also uncut, but it's a bit more tender So what we'll do, I have and we'll put that There is nothing in that And it will blanch it and also because if you have it this way before you put it in the dressing, it will tend to discolorate, And with this what we are going to use is dry tomato that I have here. As you see, those are dry You can see the seed here which are usually reconstitute They can be used as such. Those happen to have no salt. Sometimes they have salt, Those are plum tomato, a and dry out in the sun or in the oven or a dehydrator sometime. Those are the same one than So they are soft. And sometimes they take depending how long they've been dry, depending how thick they are. And finally here we have pumpkin seed. And the pumping seed it depend on the pumpkin. Sometime I get them, but always green like that and shelled. Those are very good The crunchiness, the taste of it, it's high in iron and fiber. It's very good. Then we pear and that's peel a pear. As you can see, I have (knife cutting) And that's going to be part of our salad an interesting mixture of pear and fennel. Remember that sometime, you say, &quot;Look at that beautiful red bartlett.&quot; By the time you peel it, it's white. Then you look at a bosc, Ultimately you have to when you do fruit salad or you use fruit that by the time they are peeled, they may be all exactly the same color. So here, this is a fairly firm pear, I'm sure you can hear it. And we want to take the core of it and cut it into little dice. There is a certain sweetness to this, which is going to go well with the salad. It's a bit of an unusual salad, you can use another type of fruit and the fennel can also be an addition of dill. Now, if I were not going then I would put lemon juice on top of it because it would discolorate but we are going to use it pretty soon. So I have a bit of sherry vinegar here and a bit of oil, peanut oil in there, dash of salt and pepper. And that's basically the (pepper cracking) (salt sprinkling) We put that in there. That won't discolorate like this. And I can put my dried tomato in it also, those have been reconstitute Now another thing that to make it maybe a bit more interesting, is to use wanton wrapper like this. Of course, I've used that several time. I use them at home to do pasta or do different type of thing. The Chinese of course use this a lot, all kind of different dumpling and... My friend Martin Yan use it, but I don't know how to fold it to do those little thing So what we do here, is and I can cut it this way. I can cut it in triangle. This way. And any of those you can put in the oven and what you do, you brush (utensils clinking) and on top, turn it on the Not much, just a touch. And we put that in the oven and for hors d'oeuvre or thing like this. And we're not going to do but I'm gonna put it in the oven. (oven opening) I have some here which are dried. And as I say, if you do a puree of a the hummus of chickpeas and Now our fennel is basically cooked enough. I'm gonna drain it. (water pouring) Drain it well. (strainer clinking) Put it in there. (pan clinking) And stir it to finish the salad. Here it's an interesting (salad mixing) And that we will arrange on our plate. We can put one of those underneath if you want to do a little sandwich. Some of that on top and around. Don't forget seed. The seed are beautiful, those green seed. Be sure you have enough pear in it. Put another one on that on top. And even if you have those piece you could put some of Very often you get those without the top. If you can get it with the top, beautiful to decorate with it. And this is our first course (relaxing jazz music) A la main course, we are going to do a filet Charcuterie in France is the terrine, all that type of thing. It's someone who deal and do all kind of thing with it. We call it charcutiere, which is the wife of the charcuterie. And for that, with that as and accompaniment. And to do the gnocchi, what I do here is half a cup of water, one teaspoon, one and a And we wanna bring that to The flour that I have here That is whole purpose flour. And this is basically what In addition to this, we are going to put potato later on in it. There is three different type of gnocchi. The first one, all I do is what we call gnocchi Parisian. Parisian style, which is done, that mixture is almost like We call the choux paste choux or eclair, or Napoli, So I put that in there now and you stir it enough to come to a boil. And you'll see the mixture is form, is going to form into a lump. What I do here. I use a wood spatula, flat in the bottom, because I have a little Usually we put butter. And as you can see this form into a lump, which is almost like modeling clay. So you cook it for a few second, so it dries out the moisture. If I were to do that with it would be the mixture for profiterole and so forth, as I say. But what we do now, I bring that here. And we put that directly, that little lump into the processor here. Now what I have here is a potato, almost as much potato as I have here. I'm gonna put the potato I have two eggs, I have So we gonna process this first. (food processor blending) Make a past out of it (food processor blending) A little bit of Parmesan cheese, I wanna keep some could put on top. And the second eggs. (egg cracking) Sometime we put herb in it also. I have some sage here, I could put some sage Now the gnocchi, what we call So what I say, we do it Other people do it only with the potato. And it is done in different particularly on in Italy and in France. So there is the one with the potato and then there is the mixture. And there is another one that Roman style and this is done with wheat. This is done like a semolina, which is a a wheat type of mixture. And it is cooked with milk and it's placed on a tray to cool off, and after cut off into pieces. So what we do here, again, We're gonna put that inside. This is a plain tube as you can see, which I'm going to press and this is a large opening I don't really have to push that in because nothing will come out of it. That mixture is quite thick so it doesn't get smeared all over. I forget whether I put salt in there, you should put a little bit of salt. Clean that up, good. Okay, it's a fairly thick Then again, I put it in there and you decide to clean You want to pick up everything. You ready? Now to form those dumpling here, you fold this here on a pastry bag and you start turning it this way, until it goes to the end. At that point, you pick up that hand here and press with that part of the hand and keep turning as you go in. Now, this is the conventional way. For this since I need both hand, I'm going to use the left hand and that I put directly on Wet my knife, start pressing and cut my dumpling so they So this is a nice technique. We use the same technique actually with a mixture of pate a and that's what we call pomme dauphine. Nothing to do with the gratin dauphine. And the pomme dauphine are put So here I want to use everything. Push it inside in here. And this, you want this and doesn't boil too fast. A couple of minute, they're and finish poaching two, three minutes. So what we are going to we are going to start the meat. And what I have here is my tray with all the meat. And what we have in the filet of pork. Now, a lot of people shy away from pork. When in fact, the filet of pork, if it's totally clean like this have about the same amount that chicken have. Again, providing that it's clean. This is the filet and there as you can see here type This is available all over market. Then in addition, what you have is what we which is a bit tough it's not fat, really. And you can remove it also. So those you can roast all And as I say, quite, quite lean. Or we can cut them into medallion-like, if I want to cook them. (hand smashing) You can palm them a little If you want them to cook So depending how long they're gonna cook for about to more than that if you decide to cook it So here, say I do it this way. We're gonna put a little bit of salt and pepper on top of it. (salt sprinkling) I use kosher type salt here. That is the granulated salt, which for me, I like the feel of it. But remember that this is a much (pepper cracking) lighter of salt than the other. What I'm saying is that a teaspoon of kosher type salt this way is going to be much less than So we put that to cook here. (pan sizzling) And this should cook in a and during that time, we I have some white wine to put in there but I have some scallion We're going to cut the end of it. (knife slicing) Here. And... A bit of scallion is going (knife tapping) I have tomato and those the dry tomato have been soaking in water. I'm going to remove them. And now they are soft enough to be used either whole like this or cut into piece. I think I'm going to leave but keep this because that's Then, red onion. (knife chopping) Not only it adds texture but it has a beautiful, (knife chopping) There we are. (knife chopping) I have a bit of garlic here. And I can use maybe two clove of garlic. This is not peeled, I can peel this one. Crush it to relieve the skin this way. (knife smashing) (knife chopping) And now I think that I can turn (pan sizzling) I could cover it at that This is fairly thin so So I have the garlic that is And finally here at the end, and those are French gherkin. We do the them, actually but my wife picked them up. It is tiny cucumber of a certain type that we pick up almost every day out of the flowers in the garden and that we brush it with salt. Put them in salt for a Put them in jar with It's a very sour type of thing. So this is all of the garnish for my pork. But what I want to do now is look those are finished. You see my dumpling are What you do, conventionally if see they are fairly firm here. You wanna cool them a up in water and leave them in water if If you use them right away you can take them out of the hot water. (pan sizzling) And directly season them. Here we're doing a very simple seasoning of crack pepper on top of it. (pepper cracking) A bit of salt. (salt sprinkling) A little bit of Parmesan and a little bit of olive Just serve them this way. And maybe some parley, that you can have on the top just for the color of it. So you see it has a way Food for me, often fall which is very attractive. So this can be served just the way it is. What we are going to do If it's nice and brown and believe me when and if it's cooked at and if it doesn't have it will cook very fast and to 180 degree internal temperature. The trichinosis is pork is cooked, it's killed rather at 139 degrees. So, very often we cook it way too much. So here it is here. I have my garnish. What we wanna do is (indistinct). (pan sizzling) With third of a cup of white wine. This is not going to cook very long. I want the juice of course, of the tomato that I add That would cook a couple And in this, I would wanna I would wanna finish those cornichon that we call, And mustard. After you add the mustard, you Here, it should cook but I'm going to shut it off at this. And the mustard is used, also a kind of thickening Oh and it's nice and strong. So what we wanna do here is to present the filet pork shakier. A couple of them like I have three should be enough here. Then on the top. (spoon scooping) As you can see, this is the I could decorate that with pieces of sage. For example, we haven't used much sage. Sage is beautiful. Time of the year, I have a And I a have here. And of course, if you want to which goes very well with it by the way, then you would want to putting a filet or maybe putting that you can spread out. This way it goes so well with it. And a little piece of the Your sauce that we have here. And maybe a leaf of that. And this is the main (relaxing piano music) And for our bistro corner food, we're going to have a great dessert today. And this is very easy, done. It is frozen granite we say in France. The granita in Italian, granite in France. It indicate the texture, What I have here in a cup about three tablespoon of sugar And that's about only amount. We freeze this now in a block. Now on one of them we do and we put two tablespoon and you freeze it so So you put the whole thing and I have some of course, frozen here. (freezer opening) What you do, after they've that's why I look in the refrigerator because at the end when I left them in the an hour and a half until they so they can be divided, broken down into those that we say. And this is the one with the cafe au lait and I'll put the other here. This is the other one just plain cafe that you can serve in a demitasse like this. It's really refreshing, strong and all that for summer dessert. With that you can put You can put a little bit of and you can even put some which would look good right here. If you wanna do a swirl of lemon, you take a strip with a vegetable peeler, I cut the center and you to do that type of twirl And this is a refreshing, for our corner bistro food. It's always nice to have at the corner of your house. Corner bistro, the little Where you have your friend coming or you can meet your family and it's nice. Usually you go to those place and have the type of food Maybe a bit more esoteric or combination of ingredient and this is what we had today with that interesting With that crackling things on top, which is made with wanton wrapper. This is terrific for cocktail party. Then we have the stew pork, very low calorie with the gnocchi with it. And finally the great dessert, which is about 50 calorie Without the half and half, it put another 10 calorie per person. So it still a very, very low dessert. We have a salad with that, a nice piece of bread a in bistro. And with that a pinot noir from the Carneros part of Napa valley, very earth and fruity. It's going to go great with our meal. I love cooking it for you. Cook it for your friend, Happy cooking! (inspiring jazz music) (uplifting instrumental tones)