Recently, I made a trip to Charleston, South in an Episcopalian church there in downtown asked me if I would lecture to the adult Sunday is liberalism? That's kind of a strange question because And, I had to scramble for a while to try as almost hopelessly broad as that question And, I do think it's important that we understand used so frequently and sometimes quite loosely So let's take the word and put it here on Let me start at the end rather than the beginning, -ism. Anytime we see that suffix attached to a word, a whole cargo of ideas is attached to the a foundational philosophy. It's one thing to believe in human existence; We all are humans, that doesn't mean we all So, as soon as we put that those three letters or a system, a systematic way of thinking. So, there is such a thing as a whole framework liberalism. Now, to understand the -ism, we have to There is another word contained in here. The root word is the word, liber. If you know your Latin, you know that that You get the word, liber arbitrium, which means You have the word libertas, which is the word All of these words come from this Latin root I remember when I was studying in Europe and Dutch language, that a couple of words that two words, one of those words was the word And, literally rechtzinnig means &quot;right or And another word that I had to learn was the or free thinking.&quot; Now, please be careful here, I don't mean Usually we contrast the word &quot;liberal&quot; with And, I just gave you two different words, other one for the word for &quot;liberal.&quot; And what I liked about the Dutch word for was &quot;right thinking.&quot; And I hope and trust that whether we are conservative or whatever we are, that we all want to be in our thinking and proper in our thinking. Now, to be liberal, however, in that sense, as the Latin sense implies, to be, quote, Well, free from what? Well, I think in its most noble and virtuous critically, in the sense of being free from human tradition. I think that our thinking should be under categories. And I never want to be so liberal that I declare But I do want to be liberal in the sense of of God, wherever it may be found. And so, the authentic liberal, historically, freely as possible without being enslaved That, I believe, is a noble enterprise and in which I'm defining &quot;liberal&quot; there, that hope that no Christian is a liberal in that of truth wherever it may be found. That's simply being silly, intellectually scheme that comes down without examining it convictions. I remember, of course, when Erasmus of Rotterdam that they carried on with the pen, Erasmus Luther responded with his classic work on And one of the criticisms that Erasmus had some conclusions in his thinking. And he said to Luther, he said, I prefer to a pure academic, and to hold my decisions And, Luther responded with vehement Germanic He said to Erasmus, &quot;Away with the skeptics, At this point he said, Spiritus sanctus non and the truths that He has revealed are more Don't be mesmerized or intoxicated by those and never coming to a knowledge of truth. Christianity is a religion. It is a faith that is built on the foundation Luther again said to Erasmus, &quot;You don't want He said, &quot;The making of assertions is the Take away assertions and you take away Christianity. And I think it's important that we understand So that we don't want to be liberal in the any kind of truth. Now, apart from these generic views of what like, in theology, the term liberalism has the way the term liberal is used just in normal The term &quot;liberalism&quot; in theology refers to and with a defined theology that occurred in Europe. So, when a theologian speaks about liberalism, liberalism, 19th-century liberal theology. And, as I said, it has a definite portrait Now, in the 19th century, one of the experiences of the shrinking of the globe. Travel was, by modern technology, was increasing, and mix together in heretofore unprecedented And the world was becoming a melting pot, shrinking, getting smaller and smaller. Just this morning, somebody said to me, &quot;I two days that I hadn't seen in a couple years, guy.&quot; And he looked at me, and he said, &quot;Boy, R.C., Then he paused for a second, and he said, it.&quot; It's small in one perspective, but large from What happened in the 19th century was an increasing European thinkers of things and ideas that in the Orient, among Islamic religions and And, a new science emerged on the sphere of of comparative religion. So, the students of religion in Western Europe or compare it with Judaism. Now they wanted to study Islam, Buddhism, look at all the different religions in the And what came out of this new science of comparative different world religions, is a liberal. Now, sometimes in our culture, the term &quot;liberal&quot; It means completely open to any novel idea, convictions, to be always learning and never what we mean by liberal or liberalism, at be found running through in various ways and various religions in the world. In German scholarship, for example, there again and again in scholarly publications It became almost a buzzword in the theologian's the German word Wesen. Now, if you know any German, you know that form of the verb &quot;to be.&quot; It simply means &quot;being or essence.&quot; And so, you kept seeing books that were examining Christianity. And one of most popular books coming out of the great church historian, a great historian little book for popular consumption called, That is, what is its essence? What is its being? Now, this whole movement in German theology, philosophically and theologically. The one that is most obvious and most evident thrust, it was fundamentally anti-supernatural discern the essence of religion, it was seeking sort of stuff that is contained in religious of the world, to get beyond miracle stories rising gods and all that kind of stuff, and Buddhism and Taoism and so on. And the conclusion they came to was that at concern for ethics, for values, that all the and the liturgy of salvation, and all of those peripheral matters that aren't of the essence. &quot;The virgin birth is not the essence of Christianity, the atonement of Jesus is of the essence of These things are part of the primitive trappings is found in the ethical teaching of Jesus, And, Harnack came to this conclusion; he said its two foundational concepts being the universal of man. Universal fatherhood of God, universal brotherhood Now, one of the strange dimensions of that to say that's what it was, a reductionism, core of Christianity to this simplest common two core concepts biblical Christianity. Now, in light of the place where we are in American to hear me say that the Bible does and maybe even more shocking to hear me suggest brotherhood of man. I mean, how many thousands of times in your Universal fatherhood of God, universal brotherhood so on. It's not the language of Scripture. I will admit that on rare occasions, there of the human race, and is in the sense that There is a sense in which in that regard He When Paul says to the Greeks skeptics, in said, &quot;As some of your own poets have said, The Apostle Paul there acknowledges a link sentiment to a pagan philosopher, not to Moses. Now, the reason I labor the point is this, speaks of the Fatherhood of God, it is speaking and far more precious than merely being a Go with a group of Christians, listen to them and invariably, as Christians pray out loud They'll start their prayer by saying, &quot;Father,&quot; It's the most common expression that we as And why, why not? When our Lord taught us to pray, He said, &quot;Our Father, who art in heaven, hallowed be What could be more basic to Christianity than Joachim Jeremias. the German New Testament scholar has done people, and it is his conclusion that there Jewish literature, including the Old Testament, 10th century A.D., where a Jewish person addresses That it simply wasn't done. People would speak of the Fatherhood of God address Him directly, &quot;Father.&quot; Jeremias says, you don't find it until the Yet in the New Testament, we have the record prayers recorded for posterity, and then in directly addressed God as &quot;Father,&quot; and that's And what Jeremias demonstrates is that Jesus' innovation, completely unheard of in Jewish And what He did in His radical departure from involved with. Because what Jesus teaches about the human of God. This was the dispute our Lord had with the were born Jewish, that they were children of God. Jesus said, &quot;You are of your father, the devil. God can raise up children of Abraham from Because, what Jesus does is defines sonship And because we are not by nature obedient the New Testament teaches us, and not universally The only way we ever have the right to call is because we have been adopted. And the biblical message of sonship and daughterhood in this concept of adoption, that only Christ are in Christ do you become a member of the It is the church in the New Testament that It is the church in the New Testament that And that unique concept of redemption through about the universal Fatherhood of God. Do you see that? Even more so is this concept that Harnack The Bible doesn't teach the universal brotherhood Again, The New Testament sees the brotherhood special to those who are in Christ. That there is a brotherhood of all of those invited to the sacrament of the Lord's Supper, who are in the family of God. Outside of the fellowship of the church, that Now, what does the Bible teach? The Bible doesn't teach the universal brotherhood of man. Biblically, all men are not my brothers. If you are a Christian you are my brother If you are not, you're not my brother or my But whether you're my brother or my sister, you are my neighbor. This is the point that Jesus hammered home. You know that the Pharisees wanted to limit every person in the world, to love my neighbor to me. And they came to Jesus with the question, And you know how He answered that. He said, &quot;A man went down from Jericho, and And he was ignored by the clergy. And a despised Samaritan came along and ministered his pocket, paid for his physical care and Jesus tells the story of the good Samaritan my neighbor. And the great commandment, to love God with everything, and my neighbor as myself, means with dignity, with justice, with righteousness, And, in that sense, there is a universal obligation not brotherhood. You see what I mean? Now, the second thing I want to say about a strenuous reaction in church history, particularly called fundamentalism. And originally, the fundamentalist response Christian scholarship. Today in our culture, and in religious jargon, of that which is anti-intellectual, legalistic, But historically, in the debate between liberalism so-called not because they wanted to reduce but they said, &quot;Look, there are lots of issues that we can differ among ourselves in theology Lutherans disagree with Baptists, and Baptists disagree with Episcopalians and all of that, Wesen to Christianity. There is an essential core. There is a sine qua non to historic Christianity. There are certain foundational precepts that that if you deny those, you have denied the And what fundamentalism sought to do at the of the 20th century, was to spell out certain the non-negotiables of Christianity. Such statements as the resurrection of Christ. You deny the resurrection of Christ as a supernatural If you seek to construct Christianity without you will. You may have an interesting ethical system, biblical Christianity. You see what I'm saying at this point. That was the message of the so-called fundamentalist, the century. Benjamin Warfield from Princeton at that time theology did not reject mere peripheral matters, the atonement and the resurrection. And Warfield said if you negotiate resurrection, And so, this was a to-the-death issue. One of the most significant splits in the the war between historic Christianity and What was at stake was the authority of Scripture Let me say that it's been said by church historians generic types of theologies. There are various sectarian distinctives and one we would call Pelagianism, the second we would call Augustinian. This goes back to a debate that raged in the of Pelagius, who believed that the atonement and the great theologian Augustine. And, semi-Pelagianism, of course, refers to This church historian that I mentioned says Augustinianism is a debate that has been going Christians until Christ comes. It's basically the debate between Calvinism But it is a debate among Christians. It is a debate of important matters, but matters church, not of the esse of the church, the Certainly, issues like your view of predestination esse, that is, the well-being of the church, of Christianity. You can differ on these things and still be But what this church historian was saying on unchristian, but anti-Christian. And he would have put 19th century liberal and unchristian theology. Now I keep talking about 19th century liberalism, 19th-century liberalism lived its hour upon scene of history, a blip on the radar scope came to its good senses and, and defeated and that it's just a matter of historical I would say that the greatest heyday of 19th precepts that it taught and embraced is right We are living in what contemporary theologians the central and cardinal points of 19th century and in many denominations, not simply made fact, triumphed, have gained control. And where in the seminaries and in many cases, attitude of outward hostility to classical of Christ is openly ridiculed. We've been watching the events in time magazine scholars who have have decided that 95% of New Testament writers are sheer fabrics of You've seen that, you've read that. Rudolph Bultmann, who's one of the most important and has been described often as a neo-liberal, that nobody can live in the 20th century and the light bulb, the phonograph, the television, energy and still believe in a world where being born without sexual intercourse, and back alive three days later. If New Testament Christianity is going to it must be recast, it must be revised. We must come to the Bible with what he calls where we take modern philosophical systems, we come to the text of Scripture 2000 years existential answers to help us in our modern truth claims of Holy Scripture. Emil Brunner, the Swiss theologian, who was important in this debate, in the 20th century English, The Mediator, in which he gave a mediatorial work of Jesus according to the And in this work, Professor Brunner canvassed And he was very candid in his evaluation. He said that he could, that is, Brunner, could century liberal theology to one word, &quot;unbelief.&quot; The hostility to Scripture, the hostility of the person and work of Christ cannot be issues of biblical Christianity. I think Brunner hit the nail right on the This is unbelief, and why don't people have You see, a crisis came to pass that all of in 19th-century liberalism, and they had no They didn't believe it. It's that simple, but they had to justify And so, they've tried to substitute for biblical the universal fatherhood of God and the social It's not that the Christian church doesn't But the point was, they said all that we have with. That's the reason for the church's existence, They had enormous investment in property and What are they going to do? Are the ministry and the clergy going to stand this anymore, and so we're going to turn our That's what happened in Europe, by the way. In Scotland, 4% right now of the people in 4% of the people of Scotland are members of churches. How do you know whether the church has embraced Look at the statements that makes, for example, The newspaper is filled daily with denominations it is ethical for people to be engaged in of marriage. When in the history of the Christian church Before people would say, &quot;I just don't agree that the sanctity of marriage. I think He's nuts. I don't want to have anything to do with it.&quot; But, when did anybody ever had the audacity that premarital and extramarital sexual relationships of the law of God. You see, liberal theology is not only anti-supernatural core, antinomian, that is, it is openly manifestly And at that point, it provokes conflict, conflict Ladies and gentlemen, if no one has ever called state of your soul in this day and age, because of God in this time and in this generation, Victorian or uptight, reactionary, conservative But let's not make a mistake, that liberalism honest, rigorous pursuit for truth, where It does not simply mean that we are free in Away with conservatism that is mere reactionaryism. Pharisees were conservatives. The Pharisees exalted the conventions and That kind of conservatism should always be The only kind of conservatism that God wants He has delivered through His work, and that to negotiate because the particular brand the Western church is at bottom, I'm convinced, crisis that I think Christians should be willing does, is it doesn't simply redefine Christ, are removed. I went to a seminary where the doctrine of hostility by the faculty. When I would try to tell people in the church, They said, &quot;Those men are theologians. They're ministers. You're not really going to tell us that ministers And, I wanted to shake people by the throat What is it that makes people so naive to what they profess to believe? One of the most strongest motivations that the university to study religion, and to study We should be aware of that. And people are being ordained every day who 19th century and 20th century liberalism claims Christianity to which it claims its link is I don't know a nice way to say that, but I at all. That liberalism in its attempt to be Christian, Christianity in this world. It's a lot easier to deal with paganism, because But the problem with liberalism in the church It seeks to persuade people that what it is the antithesis of Christianity. And if we haven't seen that by now, I wonder The good news is, and the point with which and internationally, the world is waking up When I was a seminary student, the five largest enrollment were all liberal seminaries. Today, the five largest seminaries in the seminaries. When I was as a student in seminary, the fastest the evangelical churches were struggling to The liberal churches in the last 20 years, 100,000 members a year per denomination, scrambling alive, while the churches that are growing the Scriptures are being preached, and where And we've seen a whole switch. We're seeing the decline of liberalism and And I hope that we will understand that this very being of biblical Christianity.