- Is it possible to witness on Earth two objects coming together And before you comment &quot;yes,&quot; obviously, it's easy to witness on Earth two objects coming together if one of those objects is the Earth, but what about just two objects in a room? It turns out it is possible. It's something I've wanted and I finally got to do The experiment was first conducted by Henry Cavendish in 1797. I wanted to see if I and goal one would be in a room can be pulled in a way that's visible to the naked eye, and if it goes really well, to calculate the In Cavendish's setup, there to each end of a bar suspended by a wire. This forms a twisting pendulum that's because a wire so masses suspended in this Cavendish would let that settle and then introduce two stationary masses near the suspended masses, the idea being that the force of gravity towards the stationary masses. If you know the stiffness of the wire, then you can figure out between the masses based on how from its equilibrium, against the force of the torsion pendulum. And the cool thing is you can rearrange this famous equation for the force of gravity to calculate the gravitational constant I assumed Cavendish's experiment just wouldn't be possible for It just seems incredibly fiddly. Then I saw this video on and, look, on the time lapse, So I bought some really heavy balls. The stationary masses are wrought iron, and they weigh about 14 kilograms each. You need at least one of the masses in an attracting pair to be non-ferrous, either the stationary mass That's because you don't want to each other by anything and if both the balls were ferrous, you would need to worry about magnetism. Like even a tiny bit of magnetism the minuscule force of So for the suspended and they're about five kilograms each. So here's a time lapse of the and finding an equilibrium And look what happens when I then introduce Absolutely nothing. What? (chuckling) Why not? Mr. Lund got it working? What's wrong with my setup? Maybe I'm doing something differently that just kind of ruins My first thought was that You can get a sense of from how quickly the pendulum A stiffer pendulum will just like how a stiffer spring But actually, if you for our two pendulums well, they're about the same. That tells me that if Mr. then neither is mine. The other difference is like of masses get to each other? By my estimation, Mr. Lund's their centers of mass are The fact that they're on the ends of a meter ruler makes the calculation from a screenshot much easier, whereas the distance between the centers of my masses is about double that. And you probably know that as the inverse square of distance, so that does have an effect. But even when Mr. Lund's from each other, you can see the effect. Look, this mass is supposed but it just stops dead, turns around, and goes towards the lead block. And then I thought, We actually do know the value of Big G.&quot; So given the parameters of the experiment, we should be able to calculate roughly how much we expect that towards those stationary masses. In other words, we should to what extent is the to overcome the stiffness of the wire. And just to be clear, because the pendulum we're really talking about how much does the equilibrium position when the stationary masses are introduced. Instead of going into the I'll leave a link to a video So here's the equation for Big G that you can get from where L is the length of the rod separating R is the distance between of the two masses in M is the mass of the stationary mass; theta is an angle, it's when the stationary mass are introduced; and T is the time taken for the pendulum to make one oscillation. That's there representing Side note, you'll notice that the mass of the copper balls doesn't and actually that's in the same way that the rate towards the Earth is independent It's always 9.8 meters One consequence of that is I could have used much which would've meant I could have used thinner wire without its snapping, which would've made the But anyway, because we know Big G, we can rearrange this equation and when you plug it all we should expect a deflection And in fact, you expect for Mr. Lund's experiment. And that was at first confusing Confusing because, well, look, this is what 0.1 degrees looks like. You can barely see that with the naked eye. You'd certainly be hard pressed in the experimental And although the suspended never actually reached their because they collide with it's still clear that the than 0.1 degrees. Could there be something that's attracting the The stationary masses are made of lead, so it can't be magnetism because Could it be electric charges Well, I did some rough calculations, and it seems as though of attraction greater from a charge that is less you typically get from So maybe that's what's going on. Maybe some charge was transferred to the masses inadvertently, that assumes that the two to each other, which seems like Like if you've got one charged object and one uncharged object, to each other because the by the charged object, but but generally it was difficult to find good quality what is the typical amount on a lump of metal in everyday life? So I'm not convinced by that idea at all. I'm really grateful to Mr. Lund, actually, for helping me think He was tempted to take his video down because it wasn't quantitative, but after speaking to a that it did indeed show he decided to keep it up as an educational aid. But anyway, assuming my and the expected deflection is then I made this whole setup for nothing. But Steve, you promised us that we would see two towards each other under I did, and you will thanks to Simon Foster at Imperial College London that they have this of the Cavendish experiment. It's much smaller than my setup, but it's also much more precise, and it has some really clever features. You've got the long wire and you see it coming down there. You also have to spend ages making sure that the hanging masses that they won't bash into when you introduce the stationary masses, which took another couple of hours. And then, look, these stationary masses, they're actually movable. So first you put the and you wait for the hanging Then you swing the stationary masses around to the other side and then let the hanging But this is the really clever part. How do you measure theta? How do you measure the change in angle of the hanging masses due and then the other by Well, just here on the wire, and you can see here we So look, with the laser you can see the reflection and, of course, the reflection as this torsion pendulum, oscillates side to side. In the time-lapse, you can even see, look, it's settling down. By the way, each full oscillation That's one of the ways is more sensitive than mine. That longer oscillation period tells us that there is a much from the twisting wire, of the hanging masses by the gravity of the stationary masses. It also means that this whole thing takes a heck of a long time, so for at this point deciding is about here, marked in green. So then we switch the to the other side, and in doing so, we disturbed the apparatus a little bit and set the pendulum oscillating again. And once again, here it is Eventually you can see that is different to the old one. How cool is that? We have witnessed gravity And look, after I got bored, I decided that the new equilibrium and I measured the distance between the equilibrium positions and some other distances and and put them all into this equation. You'll notice this is very similar to the equation we saw before. The only difference is that with this term here. That's just the distance that the laser point was deflected by, divided by the distance from And if we make the small that value is theta, but you because the deflection of to be twice the deflection of the mirror. I could cancel out the 2's, but I wanted to show And I get a value for Big G And, hey, here's the real value I just measured Big G in the I always thought I was but maybe after years of struggling to get things working for YouTube videos, I'm not so bad at it anymore, or maybe it was just a fluke. I don't know if this is I used to do these mathematics Like, my dad would bring and I just absolutely And I really think it because, well, it's well known that you learn better than through passively So what about the contents of this video? If you want a fun and easy and then retain what you've learned, I highly recommend the sponsor Brilliant is really interactive, and actually now it's the when I would normally be playing a game because it's really fun, and about mathematics, science, data science, and computer science. Brilliant has thousands of lessons, all the way from basic up to advanced, and new lessons are added every month. Because it works on phones and tablets as well as laptops and desktops, it's easy to commit to 15 minutes a day, build up this habit for you're mastering these big concepts. And it's customized to your skill level. You don't move on to the next level until you're really happy As well as the course on gravitation, one that I really like is It just really tickles that problem-solving part of my brain, and I'm learning a really The great thing is you can try everything that Brilliant has to offer Go to brilliant.org/stevemould. The first 200 people will get 20% off Brilliant's annual premium subscription. The link is also in the description. So check out Brilliant today. I hope you enjoyed this video. If you did, don't forget to hit Subscribe, and the algorithm thinks (upbeat music)