Thanks to BlueWillow for sponsoring the video! This Minecraft player is not real. It's artificial intelligence, hundreds of for one common goal, and today that goal is while also being pretty entertaining along And to do that, we're gonna let the AI decide So we'll start with the AI texture pack. This is the work of TheOriginalAce and he definitely watch, but he forgot one thing: This is an outrage, it's too normal, it No no no, we're going to AI-ify everything, the totally definitely coincidental sponsors this. BlueWillow is an AI image generator, and they head to the rookie channel and tell the AI Alright, Minecraft menu button, pixelated, we'll start there, that seems simple enough. ----- That, uh, no, what? Oh my god, I could make a whole video just of English. I get it, AI does NOT like text. Let's get rid of that part and... okay I it, there's the menu buttons, moving on. How about we spruce up this main menu a bit, We can start with a new logo... yeah, perfect! And now take a nice panorama of all these main menu. And that's it, seriously, BlueWillow is Now let's pass the ball from BlueWillow to do before we let AI loose; if we do make ending, right? "I'm about to give you the poem used in Write a second poem in the same style for Let's see what it comes up with... Okay, that is nowhere near the original poem going with that. Now, it's time for the big boy: using artificial This took forever, but I'll keep it short Basically, there are 5 major Minecraft AI unnamed neural networks that we can't use Let's start with MineRL, which is honestly OpenAI, the guys behind ChatGPT, which is But right now, the peak of MineRL performance Next is MineDojo. This one is super promising, firstly because it's already beaten Minecraft... sort of. It got all the way to the End, but the Ender to the finish line but just couldn't cross And that leaves us with just one option: Baritone. The Baritone AI is one you might already know the anarchy community. On 2b2t for example, you can set up Baritone items across the world, or to find ores and But there's one major problem: Baritone know how to play the game. If you tell it to mine diamonds, it just scans stone like a maniac until it gets to them. It doesn't chop the tree you need for a for a pickaxe, it just does what its told. So if it can't play the game, how can it It seems we've run into a dead end. It all looked hopeless... until I found this. The Alto Clef bot, which beat the game in But how did I miss this, I looked everywhere, Well, technically, I didn't miss anything. Alto Clef is a special version of Baritone which the bot will read and turn into in-game Basically, you tell it what to do, and it So now, we have AI graphics, AI storyline, It's time. I'm going head to head with the Alto AI To keep things interesting, we're both on death spot for a 10 minute time loss, but Oh, and by the way, this will be my first no practice, I only get one shot. So, without further ado... let the race begin. The AI spawns right in the middle of a forest and crafting some basic tools. I get a bit luckier, popping into the world "man, this loot is trash." And the portal was way too big to fix, which said than done. I wasn't completely screwed though. "Oh thank god, there's a village." And where there's a village, there's beds, speedrun. But why do I need beds? Well, my friend, I introduce to you the bed Beds explode in the end and the nether, and beds to kill the Ender Dragon in seconds. So while the AI starts crafting its basic I got lucky and found a blacksmith too for But there was one problem... "I'm out of hunger? Already? Dude I have like 3 bread left, I'm gonna I needed to find food, and fast. But with no mobs or crops as far as the eye Meanwhile, Alto was hacking away at the local by killing sheep. Smart man, but he has a long way to go since one, but enough to get a few more beds and Just 9 minutes in and I'm already heading later I'm back on the surface with buckets and an iron helmet for some extra protection. "This is pretty much everything I need, piglins, ight, back to the ruined portal." Things were looking really, really good. "What even is that? Dog, I need to play 1.19 more, I've never It's like a... poverty skeleton bro, what Wow." Yeah, I fell to my death through a 1 by 1 Sick world gen Mojang, very realistic, thanks! I chose not to teleport back because my spawnpoint again falling through a 1 by 3 hole, not like few minutes warding off mobs while I tried like 50 blocks on 3 different levels of the Fun. "If hell exists, I'm living in it. I hate every second of this." By the time I finally got out and gathered minutes to the dumbest deaths in Minecraft But that's okay, because it just so happens have a use after all. "Please have a lava pool, please have a it's a lava pool ohhhhh yes, yes yes yes "Nether portal acquired." And it only took 41 minutes, honestly not So now, it's time to visit our friend, the And this where I'd like to introduce a phenomenon of the speedrun. See, I don't know if I messed something but for the next 40 minutes, Alto swam back I'm not sure if he wanted to train for his and forgot why he was stranded in the middle in the Nether at around the 1 hour 20 mark, But we'll come back to him later - for The nether was a very interesting part of never completed Minecraft before. In 1.8 which I usually play, I barely have Nether update I had maybe a collective hour the game. In the words of past me, But my luck made up for my lack of skill, this. "A fortress already bro, perfect. Just need to find the blaze spawner. Ayy, there it is. These drop rates are crazy right now, it's All that's left are pearls and I'm outta Pearls. The only thing standing between me and the If I was lucky, I could be done with this Unfortunately, I was not lucky. "Where are the endermen, bro? It's been like 10 minutes, I can't find I'm just going back man, I must've missed Let's just... oh my god, bro, you cannot And with no idea where I died, I had to tank But on the bright side, I did eventually find time. "I need 13 pearls, I think, which is like So uh... let's get grinding." "You see in real speedruns, they just trade but - oh, I missed - you see, I am poor, are so, yeah, we're doing this instead- Another 10 minutes off. By the time I was done in the Nether, I was I absolutely bombed. But the AI? Completely s-mooth sailing. Alto was in and out in less than 20 minutes. I was still about 10 minutes ahead, but my I had to get to the End, and fast. But instead... "Oh my god I'm gonna drown dude, I forgot hole somewhere, please-" There's death number, what is it now, 6? And suddenly, my 10-minute lead was gone. By the time I got ready at the surface, me the stronghold. The race was on. "Is this it? Oh my god, we're here, I finally found it. Let's do this." All that was left between us and victory was Just one problem: I've never done it, not I've seen the speedruns, I've watched Mode but I have never once attempted it in run is over. "The dragon's perching already. I don't know what I'm doing, but it's "Oh my god, I did it! Time, time! No way dude, I actually did it, holy shhhhhhoh even know if I won, I'm just so happy it's A run clocking in at just over 2 hours. Not bad, but the AI was right on my heels, The final time? 2 hours, 6 minutes, and 7 seconds, winning But I'm not mad, because this is history. Two years ago, nobody could've fathomed changed. I taught an AI to speedrun Minecraft... and Thank you for watching, thank you to BlueWillow.AI my patrons for all the support. Have a good one boys, peace.