Hey everyone, as you are aware I spend a charlatans of all varieties. Today I'm going subject of this video is not really a science science communicator named Sabine Hossenfelder. commentary on a certain aspect of her work that Now, most of you are probably already familiar million and a half subscribers, and has put out as she has a professional background in therefore may seem like an unlikely subject for dunk on frauds like flat earthers and electric peddlers like James Tour and Discovery Institute. problematic people like Eric Weinstein. Sabine is least one thing in common that merits elucidation. to demonstrate the good faith nature of my by highlighting a few examples of Sabine's work Physicists call this heat death. The word mean it'll be hot. To the contrary it'll be useless energy that I mentioned previously. This is a solid video. It's hard to explain can understand. This one does a good job and good visuals, without avoiding the The mass of the W boson has been measured a few measurements in this figure. On the horizontal line is the expectation if the standard model is results from different experiments. The one at What did they do to get the error bar so small? they also did a lot of calibration cross checks know very precisely how to extract the physical think they do. Is this reasonable? Yes. This is another solid video. Summarizing results laypeople is also extremely difficult, and Sabine here, without overstating or understating There are plenty of other videos like this on Sabine as a solid science communicator overall, landscape. However, the more you familiarize a particular undercurrent that sours her output to this when I observed that a fair amount of science flag. Without even verifying whether the videos denier or not, when enough people are doing this, denial. What could this tone be, in her case? sentiment, and in particular anti-academia will recall, I consistently describe as the single This is the way in which Sabine is similar to Sabine is not Eric Weinstein. She does not whine about how nobody will take it seriously, and any and all legitimate criticism of her completely Peter Thiel to undermine public perception charlatan. She has at times associated with Eric but this does not make her his crony. In fact, doesn't understand or care much about Geometric rebuttal to it on her blog. So they certainly common thread of promoting anti-establishment which is particularly damaging coming from a and examining examples of this rhetoric in Take a look at this video. The text on the From the title we can surmise that she is going but think about how this thumbnail would ignoramus who looks at scientific credentials as universities and their Rockefeller narratives compatible they are? Let's have a listen. grades. I don't mean to brag but I think you need I'm a woman. I'm not guessing that that's what him that I was under no obligation to work for were thinking. He got angry, I laughed at him, he shoved me out of his office. This institute wasn't making. And the more I saw of academia, the more I and this particular professor. It was generally loads of pressure on researchers to bring keeping the researchers on temporary contracts so result is a paper production machine in which bring in money for the institution. It needs machinery. And since most grants are three be something that can be wrapped up quickly. her story, point out sexism she experienced, and even lament the degree to which capitalism exaggerated and one-sided description of academia. acquired by pursuing research that is innovative, some kind of industrial application. Good research allows those with anti-science leanings to imagine exclusively manufactures technology for resource real. My only personal experience with research is other graduate student I knew was just doing trying to synthesize specific molecules, there how their research strengthens national security. align with the narrative Sabine is describing, and brand the entirety of academia this way is amounts to nothing but sour grapes. The way The other thing that happened was that the the more I became convinced that most sound scientific principles. I know this sounds It is indeed a crazy thing to propose. is not based on scientific principles This is a shameful thing for her to have said. explained why thinking up new particles physics. And why that had gotten an entire I expected physicists to think about it. I No one was interested. No one is interested. is where Sabine is sounding like Eric Weinstein. in general is at some kind of impasse is a popular peddling charlatans. Sabine is different in no alternate pseudo-theory that she pushes. But of electric universe grifters like Wal Thornhill. only math! Heads stuck in the clouds! Wal used mirrors this script too closely for comfort. managed to get married and have two children. But So for several years I commuted from Frankfurt to different countries. After five years of my murder health was worse than ever, I was permanently more and not spending more time with my kids. I ill. I decided I'd go back to Germany and not were out of school. Instead I applied for research years and that could be located in Germany. and she's entitled to tell it. But that she wasn't is not indicative of some massive problem with who finish law school and then can't find a job societal problem that is tied to the status transcends the confines of academic institutions. physics from the top institution in Switzerland, so in order to make a living he had to look for position as a clerk in the Swiss Patent Office, gave his mind plenty of time to think about his and in 1905 he changed the world with his sometimes struggle. That's life. Blaming the But I knew it was bullshit. Just as most of and just as most of academic research that your This is the problematic language. No, it is research is bullshit. This is something science most of it is irrelevant to the general "normal science". But it is not "bullshit". It's a little bit at a time. It's researchers expanding Applying a particular chemical reaction to a and indexing thousands of archeological artifacts. of butterflies. Most scientific output is kind of field. That doesn't make it bullshit. It's true and sometimes these aren't corrected for attracts. The more groundbreaking the work, therefore either refuted or confirmed. Science line. Scientists are people just like everyone and once in a while even dishonesty. That's The system always eventually corrects itself and Scientific progress is slowing down. But why? And this is preposterous. Again, look at this who desperately wants all of science to be then my ridiculous conspiratorial fantasies could from reality. If science dies, I can replace lady says it's true, so I'm going to click and want to take away from it is already set in stone. gradually cramming more and more pixels progress? Aren't machines on the moon more revelation? Is this the end of science? and I do think science is in big trouble indeed. random products and then concluded that science express even about her own field, but extending frontiers that she knows nothing about, With this measure they find that the research and 70s. From the way that they've defined it, and fewer are contributing to key discoveries. to 1945 as well as 3.9 million patents and at how they measured whether a new paper or patent made say is a sign of a disruptive breakthrough. Using papers and patents have become less disruptive This all may seem reasonable at face value, but it is far easier to attain breakthroughs in a the harder it is to do something revolutionary. to physics, chemistry, biology, and other centuries of development, it's just not as easy to of the scientific process. And this graph goes all know that atoms and molecules exist. So it's not not everything has to be a breakthrough a singular breakthrough occurs, and this will needs to be explored, such that hundreds or even for several decades to catch up to new theories. to come up with results that revolutionize our It gets a lot worse. Here's a video and a frustrated Sabine is on the It's exactly the same crap as with string theory and many other research bubbles in the foundations nothing to do with reality anymore. I don't Sabine is sounding like Wal about how physicists get paid to do math. that we're seeing the beginning of a collapse in now that string theory was a huge mistake. on going and going until physics is entirely senior people are handing over to their students. Eric have something in common, there's your proof. least of all this script about physics being then goes on a very Weinstein-like rant where she a way that very clearly is not meant to convey to proclaim "I know what I'm talking about". doesn't have an issue with Lorentz invariance. have which is proportional to the square of the with Lorentz invariance. It just isn't. If then the spectrum of eigenvalues is discrete. and it works similarly in loop quantum gravity to see this is still going on. They're still I'm not a physicist. I don't know if she's right criticism of a particular subset of physicists. is bad science communication. There is nothing of they can do is walk away having absorbed some kind sense that physics is hopelessly stuck. Which it new in 50 years" song and dance is totally gravitational waves. We found the Higgs boson. We determined the mass of the neutrino. We generated thousands of exoplanets. Physics, in all of its theory super awesome and totally valid? Who knows. out. But it's not the only thing happening in funded. Not by a longshot. When figures like just a scapegoat for their anti-academia rhetoric. on this just repeats arguments that they all know let's be real, these people sit on cozy tax-paid useless papers that no one understands This video is genuinely just one long rant. It It exists purely for entertainment. It exists so to look down upon academia have a reason to throw why this video exists. We can say that Sabine has who want to learn about science. She also attracts and deny science. It's rather remarkable, but problem is that the latter audience is much, much positive feedback from that audience, and I feel Look at the view count on this very recent video higher than the other videos released around academia sucks" in the title. This one is from view count with the other content released at in six months when Sabine talks about energy gets over three million. That's a pretty stark further and further in this direction as of late? internet reacts to her content. But she does and whether or not to continue enticing this kind audiences. One audience loves science, the other exact same people who follow the Weinsteins. the Weinsteins fake academics, tell them that ivory tower themselves to tell them that the tower a reason to hate knowledge and turn their backs on this audience, and it's hard to ignore all those self-employed. I should know, I'm self-employed I'm definitely not going to be making any more of I'm going to get back to doing those things now. Why did I do them? Money, mainly. I admit But these flat earth videos do not damage public which is the singular goal that unites all Sabine's antics in this regard are not limited to Guardian, and they reek of the same attitude we've slipping into legitimate dishonesty and abject status of particle physics. A delightful analogy out of thin air, and isn't that exactly what particles with zero basis and then demand that do at all. They work within models to predict with should the Standard Model be accurate. They are The suggested particles always attempt to solve particle accelerator experiments to confirm their of numerous previously hypothetical particles this be a waste of money when the approach has describing this so-called particle zoo, she lists research. They aren't even all separate individual are more or less well-defined. The phrase was coined in the 1960s due to the large number of seemed like a disordered mess, until particle of hadrons. Then everything fell into place, which has since made many predictions that were term to baselessly mock particle physicists, which particle physicist. She goes on to mock the entire and likening them to an army of typewriting money. Not only is this ridiculous and same vibe as all the pseudoscience associated Universe bunch would never shut up about how and it's all a bunch of hocus pocus to keep the trick their incompetent audience into thinking relevant than actual math-based physics they can't whining about all the funding that goes to bunch of stupid fairy tale magic nonsense. in ten years, figure out where life came from. that are gonna try to do this. It's really It also reeks of the same vibe as Eric as a martyr and whistleblower on a corrupt system outside of academia, having escaped its tentacles. but when her arguments resemble arguments from communicators should not be sounding like to neutralize. They should not be writing entire have been written by Wal Thornhill if he had a into the details of this book, but any particle speaks emphatically and with specificity to the history of science is all it takes to dispel first pure math. Now it is used in the production can be the case for any other area of physics, experimental verification for decades because new such experiments to occur. To find gravitational and they eventually succeeded. Sometimes it's not the field of genetics, for almost 100 years nobody just a bunch of numbers and statistical analysis. figure out that DNA is the molecule of heredity, understanding of heredity is profound. Relativity after math predicted them. There are countless This is a bad article. Sabine is asserting field in order to negate its legitimacy, which be said that fewer predictions within particle decades ago is irrelevant. Sabine does not paints a picture of bumbling incompetence for Now that we have examined a few examples of her the nature of my criticism. It is singularly have expressed other criticism, and I don't take issue with her blunt tone. I do not. I also tell it like it is. There are those who take issue I do not. I am a generalist, and I encourage other offering their perspective on any scientific topic their level of expertise or confidently assert on things like gender identity and climate despite the fact that neither of us are experts in depth but rather only skimmed them, I did not misleading in them. Others who work in those areas nuance incorrect, or even made significant errors. on gender identity, and others who are more like Vaush, who did a reaction to my first video, of my language, which is why my response to the Sabine has experienced something similar. So to communicate. Some take issue with the fact taking too much of an issue with that either. My as clickbait. Do I really need to debunk flat imperative in the scicomm landscape? No, it isn't. and I know I'll get a lot of views and make audience enjoys watching, and it's ok to make as urgently needed as other content. But once earth content is not damaging to society. The way If you trace this anti-establishment sentiment over time, and it appears to me that it is a showed earlier, every single video that blatantly thumbnail gets many, many more views than her or more. This has caused Sabine to become more these views, to continue maximizing views and wanting more views and to make money is not the I like money though. integrity and poisoning society to achieve those a trusted voice in science communication? dramatic. This attitude is very damaging. the public has no ability to compartmentalize shifty string theorists and cosmologists, it does It damages their view of scientists and the that scientists are lying about physics, and they're lying about the climate, and is all one thing to them. When you plant a it will inevitably rear its ugly head in the other matter imaginable, and in ways that produce given situations like a pandemic or other events I mean for the love of Christ, "I don't trust is an insane title for a video made by a science would say. Make no mistake, the majority of meaningful way, so even if the video itself is trauma of that title, and come away with the that scientists can't be trusted, so they are please. This is incredibly damaging. This is not I don't really think that Sabine set out be a trustworthy, straight-shooting science mixture of constantly venting her own frustrations apparent audience capture, driving her to further enormous stain on her reputation. As she stands voice in science communication strictly because her channel, no riveting demonstrations, no possibly outweigh the damage that she does with and this regard only, she is similar to a is that Eric is a grifter to his core. He will person with good intentions, whose efficacy as a her history as an academic, she simply fell prey her audience. I think she can turn things around, only a fraction of her output, and redirect science communication. Will she do it? I have no probably. Will she care or respond? Again, no will not take offense, as none is intended, and said. We need effective science communicators now one as solid as Sabine down the anti-establishment So that's it for my thoughts on Sabine content in this format, but I hope you can now see to be said. Feel free to let me know what you