We proudly present to you: The Join us on an interactive adventure across perspective on the world forever. You might be inside a black hole that's Everything in existence could It turns out black holes are much weirder than than is usually explained, destroying time and universes in the process. But before we can Everything can become a black hole if you You'd need to squeeze Earth down to the The Sun needs to be squeezed down to the And if a lot of mass is concentrated in a really This is usually how black holes are explained. a black hole. But actually you don't We're ignoring some math here, but all The larger black holes get, the less dense they A sun-mass black hole is only about 6 km wide per cubic meter. The supermassive black hole million suns, a diameter of 24 million kilometers, The ultramassive black hole IRAS 20100-4156 as a solar system. But because it's This means, at least in theory, that if you take of tons of air, the moment it gets to the size forms and it turns into a supermassive So now let's think big. What do we need to A Universe-Sized Black Hole The chunk of the universe that we can see billion light-years, filled with hundreds of of other things. If you add them up, it has the Which sounds a lot - but on average, the the galaxies, stars, gas and energy, and spread we get an average density of about 5 can imagine this as the sort of ultra thin What would happen if we take a balloon as big as the observable universe and Well, it turns out that all the mass in the create a black hole. Actually, it's larger than the observable universe. should be living deep inside a truly There is one catch though. We know that our universe is not what you'd expect to our universe can't be a black hole - at least Except there is a wild and mind-bending To find out how, let's jump A Whole Universe Born Inside a Black Hole We usually imagine black holes as spheres a point where all their mass our math breaks down. But this is From the outside a black hole looks like where things stop making sense. Black holes warp the universe so space and time switch their roles. Inside a normal But inside a black hole it's the other way around So once inside, you see an infinite universe so we're simplifying. But basically or walk in another direction and But not only that. Inside a black hole time So after a while you start to notice that direction space is being stretched, while in whole universe is being squeezed, kind Sooner or later, the whole black hole every single part of it, is turning into a hole is not at its center or in any of whatever falls inside. We made a whole So the singularity is not a place where you Once it happens, you and everything else that crushed into an infinitely small region with space, none of it matters anymore, both kind of And then? Is this the end? Well, maybe not. This collapse of the black hole universe scenarios for the end of our universe: The Big universe collapses into a singularity again. But if there is a Big Crunch, like a rubber ball that you've rebounds, space might expand again. So a new The funny thing about this changed in the slightest outside the it's still a black sphere of nothingness. And So maybe our universe was born like a black hole. But if our universe can also to new universes. Is our black hole universe that's also a black hole inside another one original universe? Is the cosmos black Infinite Black Hole Universes If the universe creates black that then create new black holes that create would be subject to natural selection. so it's possible that the new daughter universes Sometimes physics may be slightly different, And so some universes might be able to create might not, maybe creating a uniform cosmic soup But if all universes are born inside black that don't create loads of black holes conditions for loads of black holes would daughter universes. Survival of the fittest, Our observable universe alone has created at universe has the physics and laws it has, of cosmological selection that favored And that would have a lovely side effect. If universes are optimized to create as they're optimized to create loads of galaxies the conditions for life to emerge. So universes also the best at creating life. If this scenario hole universes might be out there. All with stars So. Is our universe like this? The ideas are based on real science and work on paper, they're speculative and not testable. Also the universe exists in the first place or why it these are really just new questions in disguise, But isn't it just wonderful and in a universe where ideas as big as this much life. And if new universes are created We've heard rumors of a chosen one. illuminate the vast darkness of the universe, We are all born with this power. We use the same power here at kurzgesagt to find the latest science and come up This special power is called: curiosity. Our Guide to Curiosity is now available on you to think like a kurzgesagt birb Join us across 160 thrilling, interactive changing your perspective on the world forever. But be prepared! We will send you on challenge you to build unprecedented structures, ask you to cook up something surprising, and solve But don't worry, the birbs will be with you every The 18 curiosity quests were developed After hundreds and hundreds of hours of we created the ultimate curiosity adventure. a product - and we are so excited to So head over to the kurzgesagt shop and Every kurzgesagt product you buy get to spend working on our videos - and you Thank you so much for being a part of our