720g Potatoes Cut out the bumpy part Cut thickly for better texture Pour cold water and soak for 30 minutes The starch in the potato is removed, making it crispier Drain the water after 30 minutes After washing the starch with cold water Add potatoes to boiling water 0.5 tsp Salt Boil for 5 minutes Pre-cooking shortens the frying time. Rinse in cold water to cool quickly Only 70% cooked Remove the water Put the potatoes in a plastic bag 2Tbsp Cornstarch It was well powdered white. Shake off the remaining powder Note not chalk Add to hot oil Fry over low heat for about 3 minutes Take it out when it starts to harden. Immaculate now let it cool for a while If there is moisture in the potatoes Put it back into the boiling oil. Fry again for 3-4 minutes on low heat. If it turns brown, take it out Just thinking about it made me rich with exciting french fries 20g Unsalted butter 5g (0.5 tsp) Wheat flour Roasting the flour gives it a savory taste. 1 tsp Sriracha sauce Level of spiciness not felt 120ml Milk Stir well so that it does not stick 108g cheddar chees If you add a lot at once, it will not dissolve well, so add little by little. Turn off the heat when it thickens Time to go through a tricky screening of the stomach The most spectacular of the waterfalls is the Cheese Falls. Parsley chilli powder The irresistible temptation of cheese, it's a cute snack Wow~ Crispy on the outside, soft on the inside Fried potatoes are a speed battle My stomach throbs at the sight of a potato covered in cheese 440g, 2 potatoes Then cut into cubes Put on the wrap Cook in the microwave for about 7 minutes (based on 700W) After crushing it finely 200g potato starch 150ml water Potatoes are all different in moisture, so add water little by little and mix. It is finished with a soft dough that does not crack. Roll out the dough and make it into a circle Poke it with a bottle to make a button mushroom shape Add potatoes to boiling water Boil for 2 minutes 30 seconds When the potatoes are cooked, they float to the top one by one. If the potatoes come to mind, it is a sign that they are well cooked. Drain the potatoes and rinse them in cold water Remove the cooled potatoes and place in a bowl. 14g (0.7Tbsp) Minced garlic 32g (4Tbsp) Soy sauce 3g (1tsp) Sugar 4g (1Tbsp) Red pepper powder 9g (1Tbs[) Chopped green onion 24g (3Tbsp) avocado oil (vegetable cooking oil possible) After boiling the oil sprinkle over seasoning mix evenly A view that will start to whet your appetite round round cute Although it looks like a mushroom, it contains the pride of a potato. Wow Chewy chewy taste, the more you chew, the happier you become The seasoning with garlic flavor is also really good. 16g, 1 room temperature egg 80ml warm milk Unwrap the eggs first 4g instant dry yeast 20g (2Tbsp) Sugar Dissolve the yeast and sugar first. 200g Bread flour 3g (1tsp) Salt After coating the flour with salt I mix it all together Start the portable hand kneader Mixed well without flour 30g melted unsalted butter Knead until the butter is absorbed into the dough If the dough is smooth Ferment in a warm place to 2-3 times the size (below 36) 430g Potatoes (weight with skin) Potatoes are boiled in any convenient way Boiled potatoes 3 pinches of salt a bit of black pepper Mash the potatoes while hot. 40g (4Tbsp) Heavy cream or milk Add whipped cream to reduce the dryness of the potatoes. 1 hour later Fermentation complete Divide the dough into 2 equal parts remove the gas After rounding sprinkle with flour Flatten it with a rolling pin this thick Put the dough on the oven pan Then spread it into a round shape Scoop the mashed potatoes spread over the dough 140g mozzarella cheese You can mix and match different cheeses to your liking. All potatoes are accepted Remove the gas from the rest of the dough Then flatten it evenly Gently cover the blanket over the cheese potatoes completely sealed Tidy up by pushing the ends down Put the duvet under the bed as if you were making a bed. Cover with plastic wrap so that it does not dry out, and ferment for about 20 minutes. after 20 minutes milk Brush with milk to get a nice baked color After the milk carton Gently apply acupressure with your fingertips (optional) Today is the day I envy the dough Transfer to an oven preheated to 160degC (320degF) Bake at 160 (320) for about 30 minutes (depending on the oven specifications) melted unsalted butter Butter is applied to give gloss and savory taste. Parsley (optional) This appetizing color feels cozy like country bread Wow~ It's the perfect presentation of plain potatoes and confident cheese. The feeling of fullness in my stomach today is trustworthy and kind 550g potatoes Boil the potatoes any way you like. mozzarella cheese Cut the mozzarella cheese into thick slices sausage Cut a 12 cm long sausage in half wooden chopsticks Put the sausage first Cover the other half with mozzarella cheese. Half and half is the best In the meantime, the potatoes are cooked. 1.5Tbsp Parmesan Cheese Powder 0.5tsp Salt 0.5tsp Black pepper powder Mash the potatoes while warm Divide into 4 equal parts After flattening Cover the cheese and sausage Roll it to make the surface smooth 4 musketeers Cornstarch Flour also available Egg bread crumbs Fondant in hot preheated oil Fry quickly over high heat before bursting. Turn around and take good care of it If you paid attention to anything else, even for a moment... Corndog soldiers start vomiting cheese Topped with ketchup and mustard Cheese and sausage buried in potatoes, let's find it with our mouths Wow~ I don't want the cheese to fall out of my mouth, I'm so glad I like potatoes that are faithful to their role Keep eating as your stomach leads you