I think when I say I have 23 housemates, people are That sounds wild, but actually it's quite nice, I I moved to Cohabs because I didn't really know anybody, As you grow older, making friends as an adult gets more I thought it would be a good kind of boots on the York. There's a lot of similarities between living in a dorm certain key differences. One, I think everyone's a lot more respectful because mature. The other big thing, this place is a lot less Hi. Welcome. This is one of the co hubs buildings in Brooklyn, New Come on in. I'm Ishan Abeysekara I'm 33 years old. I live in Brooklyn, New York with 23 other housemates, I moved to New York from London towards the end of I grew up in Sri Lanka, so I was anyway away from home So I thought, hey, why not give this a shot and see For the first two months after I moved to New York, the office in a one-bedroom apartment sort of When I was looking for an apartment, I was actually I was sort of looking for something in the $2000 to I looked at a few places in the East Village, was It was pretty scattergun. I moved into the Cohabs building at the end of So I just googled communal living Brooklyn and Cohabs What I kind of really liked about this house was when of having dinner together. I'd sort of also seen a studio apartment in the East when you're new to a city? And this seemed like a So here I am. When I moved in, I paid $1,850 as a security deposit, moved in. I was in a different room at the time, which So this is our living room. This is where most of the socializing sort of happens Everyone has their locker where they keep their We've got all these fridges which we share, and then there. And some people actually even use this space as This is my fridge, which I share with three others and Sharing a kitchen with so many people is completely You have your own cupboard to leave your stuff in. We have six fridges which are shared amongst 24 Everyone has their own shelf and there's like shared Generally, everyone cooks for themselves. Occasionally we do things where we cook together and I don't actually cook that often, to be completely This is my bedroom, got some nice windows, lots of Bed which you can sort of move around with tons of My bedroom came with a bed, a bedside light, a desk, a a basket for your dirty clothes. A wastepaper basket. Here, i actually have a walk-in closet, which is So right now, the room I have is one of the biggest This is my bathroom. I share it with one other person. Overall, in my experience, there hasn't been any big main reason for that is that there's so much shared other's way, and everyone has their own space in terms Once I had to wait 15 minutes for the shower, which, years I think is fine. So here's our terrace. It's a really nice sort of small outdoor space. I sometimes like to come here and read a book, or if have some lunch whilst I'm looking at some emails. Actually, right there is my bedroom window with all So this is one of our working from home spaces. I don't really use it much because I'm in the office This is one of the mini kitchens. Every floor has one. People don't really do a lot of cooking here. There's a microwave. It's like a little fridge where you can also store So this is our rooftop. I really like the view from here. You can sort of see the downtown skyline over there, over there. So this is our basement. Here we have our laundry rooms, three washers, three Pretty handy to have that. I hear that this is a luxury in New York. And this is the rest of our basement. So we have, like a TV room here. Also some bike storage. This sofa is actually so big we could fit all 24 spare. We've got some machines here, some weights, a I sometimes come here and sort of do a workout alone Actually, over here we have like a challenge with I'm part of the pull up challenge, even though I'm But here we are. One can try. Despite the fact that the people moving in and out Certainly if people are only here for three months, everyone's got their own thing going on. But that said, in this house, most people have been a good amount of time to make friends. There's not a lot that would make me move out. I mean, never say never. You're always open, but perfectly happy here, right I really, really love the energy of New York, and I no matter where I lived. But certainly being here has really helped me build a I think I've met some people who I feel like I'll I mean, there's certainly some people who've actually And yeah, it's been great.