Hi, I'm Rick Steves, back with more of the best of Europe. This time we're deep in Andalusia. This is Sevilla. Hold on to your castanets. Thank you. Sevilla does festivals It's a flamboyant city lovers like Carmen and Don Juan, where bullfighting is still and where little growing up to become Sevilla has soul Sevilla, or Seville in English, has its share And we'll see and plush Moorish palace. But the real magic with its labyrinthine Riveting flamenco shows, thriving bars and teeming festivals. From Sevilla we head to explore the region's Arcos de la Frontera. Located in the southwest corner Spain dominates Its southern province and the region's leading city From there we travel Sevilla was Europe's gateway in the 16th century. It flourished during The explorers Christopher and Amerigo Vespucci The Golden Tower was for trade with the New World. For centuries, part it came with a heavy chain to protect the harbor. In the 16th century, Sevilla's Golden Age was In the 17th century, an important center In the 18th century, and the Spanish Empire crumbled. Sevilla's power faded, the once powerful, became an important stop on the Romantic-era &quot;Grand Tour In the 20th century, Sevilla hosted a World's Fair with today's striking dramatic bridges, and even a new airport. Today, with 700,000 people, it's Spain's an exuberant Andalusian [ Clapping and yelling ] But the charm of Sevilla is like flamenco. Spaniards consider Andalucia While impromptu flamenco in Old World bars, most tourists attend a show like this. The men do most [ Rhythmic tapping ] The women concentrate and a smooth, dramatic step. [ Guitar strum ] Flamenco guitarists, with their lightning-fast are among the best [ Fast clicking ] The intricate rhythms are set [ Singing in Spanish ] In the raspy-voiced wails you'll hear echoes an evocative reminder [ Single clapping ] Yea! [ Applause ] The town square is Plaza Nueva. It honors fondly remembered for freeing in the 13th century. From here, wander pedestrian-zone which Spaniards prefer This is the place for But I couldn't know my Manchego without a little local help. My friend and local tour guide, has agreed to be So there's all these Isn't it just for tourists No way. These are for locals. We have preserved So these traditions Completely. This is one &quot;Buenos dias.&quot; &quot;Hola.&quot; Here, now let the three most that women wear Shawls, mantillas, Starting with the shawls the display of beautiful which are very We would use them but they also have a function, which is warming you This is what we beautiful, nice flamenco dresses to attend to On top of you cannot wear a simple coat. something more distinguished, You can leave it like that, Hmm? Here we've got The mantilla which can be in two colors: It's always combined which is incorporated and then we wear that The white one, it's for the festival when women wear them Let's have a look As you can see, different materials, but they are Remember that Sevilla gets and women, especially when Very old churches, and they are cooling Sometimes you hardly just [ thumping ]. That's all In the old days, there was which is disappearing, it was very For example, you were that you weren't - ha, ha. because I don't But if you were that movement could tell him Anyway, the most common [ Click, thump, thump, thump ] In the year 711 the Muslim Moors and conquered They ruled Spain inspiring a Europe-wide crusade to reconquer this land. Muslim rule stretched but bit by bit the Moors expelled from Sevilla in 1248 and finally pushed entirely out The Moors left a distinct mark While in Sevilla, they ruled More than six centuries later, still functions The Alcazar provides of a graceful Moorish world that might have survived but didn't. What you see today done in Mudejar style. This was a Moorish style done but for Christian rulers This became the king's palace. Its centerpiece was Court of the Maidens. It was decorated Mudejar below The king hired Muslim workers to what was a stark fortress. They built what's considered in all of Spain. The intimate Dolls' Court Imagine the royal family around a reflecting pool The stylized Arabic script, created a visual chant but the decor You'll see animals, buildings that you wouldn't find in which forbids images. A century or so later, just after Columbus' Queen Isabel built a more European- Anticipating a big business she built this to administer The chapel is dedicated to Santa Maria St. Mary of the Good Winds was the patron saint and a favorite of Columbus. This altar painting dates from shortly after Columbus died the first and most accurate portrait of the great explorer It's also thought to be the first The Virgin's cape seems even the Indians. Like the palace, the gardens The intimate lead to the later, backyard of Spanish kings. The gardens are full of tropical and, in the summer, I'm thankful we're here beating the brutal heat The Moors were relatively During their rule, shared the city peacefully. After the Christian reconquest, Sevilla's thriving was concentrated here Today only a few surrounded by a tangled web of when this was Explore, wander among lanes whitewashed houses corralling and wrought-iron latticework. Regardless of who lived here, seems to have one goal: The narrow streets, they're called kissing lanes, were designed Concepcion: These orange trees They never lose Rick: And refreshing, too, on a hot day. Well, not to eat. These are sour We just use them or that kind of marmalade Oh, that bitter English It's made The Santa Cruz neighborhood Savor the simple elegance The delicate charms are just a few steps from It's the third largest church after St. Peter's and St. Paul's in London, and the largest When they ripped down the in 1401, the Reconquista &quot;We'll build a cathedral so will take us for madmen.&quot; You could fit a soccer field Everything is super-sized. The towering main altarpiece Constructed in the 1480s, it's composed of hundreds It tells the story in 40 scenes from his birth The choir, an enclosure for more intimate services, surrounds It held giant hymnals, large enough for all in an age when there weren't In the transept, four pallbearers carry the tomb They represent the four that became Spain: Aragon, Navarre, each identified Columbus even traveled a lot He was buried first moved to Santo And after Cuba earned its independence from he sailed all the way back here Is he really in there? Sevillanos like to think so. All that survives of Moorish is its courtyard of orange The tower offers a brief history, sitting on a long Moorish period capped The Moors built to accommodate a rider Somebody climbed this tower to call Sevilla's Muslims Today tourists gallop up And the former minaret functions as the cathedral's bell tower. It's topped a statue that symbolizes Some of Spain's is done right here in Sevilla's Bullfights are scheduled Easter through October. While bullfighting and many believe that just helps keep others see and vivid part of Whether or not you actually attend a bullfight is up to you. To learn about this tradition you can tour Sevilla's and check out Your visit starts the strangely quiet In the museum A few special bulls each awarded the bovine for putting up the best fight This one's missing an ear. It was awarded to the matador, Matadors dress to kill, and richly-ornamented The first-aid room is where Hoping not to end up there, matadors pray here The Virgin of Macarena and the favorite While her images you can see the actual darling nearby at the Basilica Grab a pew and study She's a 17th-century doll, complete with articulated arms She's even dressed With crystal teardrops, halfway between ecstasy Sevilla's Semana Santa, are the most magnificent During the week leading packed with pilgrims carrying elaborate floats The two most impressive floats are parked behind the altar. The biggest float, shows the sentencing of Christ. Pontius Pilate is about His wife cries as a man reads While pious Sevillan women relays of 48 men carry on the backs of their necks. Only their feet show as they shuffle through midnight until 2:00 in the This float, with the Weeping placed regally in the center, It's festooned with wax flowers It seems fragile, Locals explain, &quot;it's strong while delicate enough to quiver Rick: Have you one going through the streets? Concepcion: The Queen of the She even wears her day she looks When she goes people get crazy. They can't explain and they clap or they throw petals What's so special about She knows everything because we have our problems Her name is &quot;hope,&quot; Sevilla's passion and displayed in its museum The top Spanish artists all called Sevilla home. Sevilla was Spain's material capital -- While Madrid was a newly built like Washington, D.C. In the early 1800s, disbanded many and secular fanatics Thankfully, the most important and hung safely here Spain's economic Golden Age, blossomed into the golden age Artists such as combined realism Under a protective Mary, and monks with wrinkled faces This inspirational style during an age was waging its against the Protestant The &quot;Apotheosis of St. Thomas Zurbaran's most beautiful It was done at the height when stark realism Zurbaran presents in a believable, Eventually, the style of Bartolome Murillo became more popular than Murillo became the rage and through much This Madonna and Child wraps everything in warm colors Murillo's favorite subject shown young and pure. The painting is called one of dozens Murillo painted Catholics believe that not only but that Mary herself conceived immaculately. With all this religiosity, is also famous for letting and we're here for the biggest For seven days each April, is packed The fair feels friendly, The Andalusian passion [ Singing in Spanish ] And sherry is clear. Riders are ramrod straight, colorfully-clad senoritas and everyone's drinking Women sport outlandish dresses that would look clownish but somehow brilliant here Over a thousand or casetas, line the lanes. Each striped tent of a family, club To get in, you need to know or make friends quickly. Concepcion's well connected we're in. [ Speaking Spanish ] Rick: This is Okay. Because of this exclusivity, it has a real Everyone seems to seems like a thousand being celebrated all It's time to say &quot;adios&quot; She's got more and we're heading for a dose The route of the Pueblos is a charm bracelet perched in the hills The queen of the White Towns is Arcos smothers its hilltop, like the train The old town center Viewpoint-hop through town. The people of Arcos see the backs of the Feel the wind funnel as cars inch Driving is tricky. If you miss your hotel, Under the castle is the town's main square which Towns like Arcos, with &quot;de la Frontera&quot; in their names, were established that was, on the front lines to take Spain back As the Moors were slowly the towns, while no longer kept &quot;on the frontier&quot; The main church is a reminder After Christian forces in the 13th century, The mosque was demolished and a church was built There are historical curiosities This stone was scavenged You can just make out and this 2,000-year-old But the mysterious highlight is this 15th-century magic circle, 12 red the white ones with various Back then, the parents would stop here The exorcist would stand and cleanse the baby Then they could proceed The flying buttresses were after it was weakened Arches prop up buildings all over town. Peek politely Cool and inviting are typical of Arcos. While the old wells they're reminders that once functioned They funneled rainwater which filled the well. Explore the narrow, whitewashed, of this charming hill town, and while you're at it, We're eating where Senora Maria serve the best Throughout Europe I find that offer the best values, I eat better for less rather than in a big city. Their refreshing gazpacho, is a great starter. Ask about seasonal specialties. The wild asparagus dish as are the artichokes. They're served with shrimp. Spanish wine has moved up on the respectability ladder lately. Our full-bodied red This is a good opportunity Well, small game. I'm having pigeon. Whether finding new ways checking out a new dance, learning how the Moors appreciating a new artist, or just joining the party, travel shows me how life in ways I haven't Enjoying life with abandon comes I hope you've enjoyed our taste I'm Rick Steves. keep on travelin'. &quot;Adios.&quot; As the Muslims were slowly the towns really lost any and they just decided to Were established... put a veil over your face 'cuz this is stupid; I shouldn't be I should be able Ha, ha, ha, ha. Take 25.