- When people flew the Concorde, they didn't notice how They didn't know they the speed of sound other that sat in front of But what they did notice is how much time they spent on the ground and not on an airplane. When you push that speed up to that makes, effectively, - Commercial airplanes today fly at about 600 to 650 miles per hour, which is around eight-tenths Since the retirement of fuel efficiency and cost effectiveness have been prioritized over speed. But what if the key to the is 3,000 miles per hour hypersonic flight? - When you bring places closer together, you remove barriers to the you tend to grow trade- and that drives larger and larger social and economic growth at a global scale, the likes of which we haven't - My guest today is AJ Piplica: a founder and the CEO of Hermeus, where he leads a team the global human transportation network through development of Then later, we'll visit and explore their and test facility. We'll preview their first Quarterhorse, and hypersonic ramburner, the Chimera engine. Stay tuned as we uncover a range of topics from the history and to its groundbreaking innovations its impact on the global economy, and its potential to bring The only way to solve our biggest problems is to have the audacity to try. Welcome to &quot;In the Arena&quot; with Evan Baehr. AJ, I'm really excited to be because I wanna learn about The story of aviation over in the West is a pretty discouraging one. We're worse at innovation. The cost has skyrocketed. There's some good news, of entrepreneurs who like Hermeus, your business. What is Hermeus? - So at Hermeus our long-term vision is to radically accelerate air to accelerate the development and push beyond the bounds of specifically in speed. And along the way radically with autonomous high-speed aircraft that support the Department of Defense. And then applying that to in defense and commercial. - Tell me the story of you to do this thing that, from the outside, this seems a little crazy. - We had worked together in the hypersonics world, mostly around the Department of Defense. So we had a very good feel where the core problem sets were, where money was being spent, and more importantly, where Like, what's the next thing? The core thing that drove us to leave our relatively good-paying jobs and start Hermeus when we did was as you lay out the technology roadmap, like all the things that you have to do to build a Mach 5 passenger aircraft and fly people across the along the way, you're gonna have to like, build some things that in a national security perspective. And that kind of really drove the roadmap. So we'd seen how much money is being spent on hypersonic weapons. We'd seen some of the and we kind of had a theory that yes, we spent a lot of money we're gonna spend a lot of On that front, there was also like, kind of a responsibility because nobody was even looking at this. Everybody was like, squarely focused on hypersonic weapons and slow airplanes, and then it's like this it's everyone's looking that way and we go that way. Not very intuitive, some but from our perspective, we saw a gap that if we didn't fill it, some other country around So, our particular skill coming up through the having worked together on was a really unique set of like, people that didn't exist anywhere. That put us in a really unique spot where it's like, &quot;If not us, then who?&quot; - I wanna talk about you're having to pursue, the ability to travel at these speeds was kind of already achieved, and I wonder if in some sense, you're not actually needing to innovate on the engine itself, but more like innovate the systems engineering By way of answering that question, remind us of the story of the Concorde. - Sure. you're trying to revive - Sure, so I'll start with the Concorde. The Concorde as a program, the reason it happened, it was the Apollo program That is the technical achievement that they pursued with a large portion of the research and development funding that they had available There are a ton of analogs between what happened in the Concorde program and why it doesn't exist today, and the lunar program that I mean, we haven't been since that program either. They're very, very similar. They were national priorities that was ahead of their time, that didn't have a kind of for sustainability either or an environmental sense or otherwise. It was really about nation and leading in particular We haven't been back to the Moon because we don't have we're getting there, getting very close- but the reason that we is because it was a national priority. We made it a battlefield of the Cold War, and for Britain and France, that was part of what Concorde was. You know, they were who was also developing a They were massively successful, honestly. An engine that can operate at low speed and supersonic speeds; high-temperature environments keeping a passenger cabin cooled, all of the unique things. And of course like, fitting into existing not an easy thing to do at all. - And it flew for a while. - It flew for almost 30 years. - And I think it was, ballpark, it was around maybe $12,000 a ticket. And it would travel of a traditional commercial aircraft. And what happened? - It died of old age. So, Concorde flew for about 30 years, and Airbus, which was the company, that was basically built out of this, you know, collaboration stopped supporting spare parts about, I don't know, 15, 20 So like, it was going to end anyway. You know, 30 years is on of an aircraft even today. - Does the legacy of of what you're building at Hermeus? Do you fear that 20 years history repeats itself? - No. A couple reasons: It's clear that the from a materials perspective, from an engine's perspective, from an engineering design perspective, gives you significantly more margin than the designers of the Concorde originally had about 300 orders and I think they were like, well into their final design phase or even into their certification program when a law came into effect, that said, you cannot fly so supersonic overland in the And after that happened, the order book dropped something like that. But I think from the the approach that we're with the military applications specifically autonomous to get those iterative so that by the time we go to certify and bring to market a it is a fourth, fifth-generation system. As you build a business around that's gonna be a large and in and of itself. It takes a very, very highly committed to moving fast, delivering on a set of de-risking But the trick here is like, it's not just software. It's not just bits. It's atoms. - The back half of the phrase that you mentioned of moving fast, for a while at Facebook, it was, &quot;Move fast and break things.&quot; Dealing with hard tech, even thinking about if on this airplane- I think in a plane a hundred plus people died- I was looking back at how major triumphs of innovation often require society including a loss of life. So, how do you think about that for what you're building now? Like move fast, like, are you willing to break some things but just not loss of life - Yeah, so in the factory in Atlanta, we have a flag that was and is dedicated to fallen test pilots. If you look back in the all of aviation for a very, very long time was people taking risks to push the boundaries in the frontiers of what we knew about flying. And a lot of them gave their lives in that pursuit of knowledge. So it's something that, even though we're building that don't have people on board, we're not asking people to But in the souls of you can never forget what build up the shoulders of the We're not putting a person on an airplane for a very long time. And that's something that we you know, we were able to So that allows us to take a lot more risk from a technical perspective. So we're very, very open However, there's a fundamental difference between that type of risk and safety. Safety is not something that Safety over progress, You really have to build a culture around where every single and takes on their own for their own safety and the - Talk a little bit about innovation at the level of the business model. You are a venture-backed startup. You guys have all sorts of challenges. You've gotta get really you're manufacturing airplanes, you're signing, you know, long lead time contracts the things you're I mean, I can't think that this is in common with a standard venture-backed startup. So, talk about the business model and just bringing this - Yeah, it takes a special entrepreneur to learn to like the taste of glass, to go and execute on something like this. But it also takes a massive And I'm not just talking If that was the primary motivation here, myself and my co-founders There are many better ways than start an airplane company. There's an old adage of like, how do you become a millionaire in like, airplanes, rockets, you well, it's you start out a billionaire. So unfortunately, don't so have to do it the hard way. And that hard way is really like, go after the single most which was the engine. So we built a small prototype engine where we showed that we could take an off-the-shelf turbojet, pushed it up to SR-71 build a ramjet, put it on the back, show that it operated lower than that, and up to about Mach 4, and do that in, we ended up doing like nine months with about a million and a half dollars. The real challenge is how into a sufficiently efficient and that's more than just the engine. It's the integration of the the avionics, everything all together, because like, the faster the more tightly coupled everything about the airplane becomes. It's no longer an engine the wing of an aircraft almost independent of the aircraft. It's now a flying engine with, you know, stubby little wings on the side that you really have to design together. And development programs, bind down all the uncertainties that exist as you start ground-testing, - Let's take a break from our conversation to go visit the Hermeus to get up close and personal with their latest breakthrough aircraft, the Quarterhorse. - There are very few things in the world where if you build it they will come. But I think everyone can agree that flying on a slow plane sucks. Quarterhorse is a series The first vehicles are Mk 1. Mk 1 is really focused of something with short stubby wings as a remotely piloted vehicle. - Quarterhorse is Hermeus' first aircraft in a three-plane series: walk, crawl, then run. With a cadence of one plane a year, they're aiming to succeed for remote takeoff. - So this is our flight deck, as I mentioned that this is so we don't have a pilot station on board. So, the pilot stations are in here. It's a pretty simple system. There aren't a lot of which is how we move so fast. It takes one person. So, that's something that's Now it takes a team to in case something goes wrong because there's always unknowns. - The remote takeoff of the Quarterhorse program. Moving fast to learn and is key to unlocking hypersonic air travel. Hermeus' goal is to later this year. - All right, morning everybody. We'll take a quick look on milestones and dates. All right, we'll hit it. - Hermeus has a lot to do before meeting their flight test deadline. Previously, they've their Chimera engine. This engine will enable Hermeus to achieve hypersonic commercial flight. - The Chimera engine is really and that's the specific unlock to exist in the first place. Where our engine is a little weird is we actually have to that allows us to operate but also in that middle ground where we have that turbojet And having the tech to actually operate in these three regimes is certainly like, a demanding technical challenge. - The Chimera engine is a blend of an off-the-shelf commercial jet engine combined with a ramjet engine. Ramjets enable the ability - You have your commercial turbojet, which is taking that injecting fuel in, igniting it, and generating thrust. And then we have ramjets, which don't have those It's actually using how to compress that air in before you inject your But currently we don't have of taking off and landing from a runway. We actually have to speed it up before the ramjet can actually even start. - Hermeus has demonstrated their ability to activate ramjet mode of the Chimera engine. This makes them one step closer to commercializing hypersonic flight. Hermeus is also in the process of parallel developing It's important they continue to learn the successes of each aircraft as they progress along - Success for Mk 1 is and landing successfully, proving that we can design that actually gets in the air and actually performs we still have to prove that. The next one, Mk 2, bigger engine, a lot more capability, and really pushing up into the And then finally, Mk 3, where we're actually - We're not like, going out and right out the gate. Going through the different aircraft within the Quarterhorse program, Mk 0, Mk 1, Mk 2, Mk 3, is how we get there and &quot;Oh hey, we actually have a problem here. We need to change something early on.&quot; And it allows us to are a lot lower before the stakes become really, really high on like, a very high-performance Mk 3 vehicle because we have a lot of the chess pieces where they need to be before we have to execute - The amount of learning that you get then compounds over time. So yes, we got a lot of learning but like, when you stack on top of each other, and that will be three aircraft builds, four total system builds. There aren't a lot of that you can go do something at that pace of one aircraft a year. - We have a lot of who are super jazzed about But the company behind that, too, the team behind that, as well, that's what I really see as the potential that the Quarterhorse program - Turns out making I tell the team all the time, we're not an airplane company yet because we don't have And so I think it's to now take the next steps, do some integrated checkouts, start going through taxi testing, and then finally get into flight. And it's gonna be a pretty and we're definitely gonna probably have a good time after that, so. - Let's head back to the studio where we'll dive deeper into the future of hypersonic flights impact What is at stake if another country develops this technology first? - So, I think from a whoever gets there first tends And there are no rules in in the FAA today around airplanes that and have ramjets and can From a military perspective, you can kind of see of high-speed systems developments that's happening in other which from like, a weapons perspective, you know, hypersonic missiles, I think a lot of people is behind in these. The kind of key thing, that re-usability, like an aircraft, high-speed aircraft is the cost point on some of these kinds of systems drops substantially. Much in the same way that like, bringing re-usability to rockets - If China announces and what happens if they of beating us to the market? - Yeah, I think it just adds yet another kind of asymmetry on for objectives that they may have that they may want to accomplish, and makes our job, which is, you know, from a national security perspective, to deter conflict at you know, a generally global scale- it makes that job a lot harder for us. - When I imagine the as a national priority of China, with trillions of dollars, with 10x the number of engineers, with a possibility of zero regulation, no OSHA representative is showing up and asking about wheelchair accessibility for the plant, right? All the elements of the and arguably of our they have none of that stuff. What about the Chinese approach more effectively or more quickly in China? - I think it's focus. Focus is a thing that you can where you have like, You can drive focus and advancements in core areas, like, relatively quickly. An example of this is like, if you look back over the how much hypersonic flight testing has been occurring in China versus what's been occurring it's about an order of magnitude more. - What is the case to be made that companies in the United States in this regulatory corporate ecosystem will win the race to hypersonic flight? - Capitalism. That is something- a superpower, an asymmetric advantage that You typically don't see the construct of the entrepreneur leading with just a maniacal, will-not-die, will-not-lose attitude We can argue about various and what AI might do but I firmly believe that and asymmetric advantage that drives not just the but all of the employees along the way. Not only are you supporting, you know, national security and, you know, the advancement of human's knowledge base in aerospace and aviation, with a chance to connect the world faster and unlock massive social so like, big, big outputs and impact at the end of the day- you have a stake in that as well. And it's like the American Dream, right? Like, go pour your blood, sweat, and tears into a thing that creates massive value and rise above your station- that doesn't happen outside - Tell me a little bit about how you approach your competition: They've got a thousand times more funding, thousands of times more people. Do you worry or do you that shape how you have to operate are shaped by regulatory capture? - Oh, I'm sure they are, but I kind of don't care. I think from our perspective, like, our job is to deliver a product that's 10x better than the competition. And I think this kind of goes You have to be shooting that is so compelling that it overcomes, brutally, any of those Because most of those things, there are plenty of What you need is really the will of a small set of people specifically like, you know, within the Department of Defense, or actually and on Capitol Hill, to see what you're doing, understand how much better it is than what is available today, or what will be available even tomorrow, and say this must happen. And you need that will on the inside to kind of cut through all Back to the early days of SpaceX and commercial orbital or services contract, it was like their first that wasn't like, a mainstream like, major program within NASA. That was basically a set of insurgents who saw the same kinds and his team saw, where innovation was really required and they were able to work and I mean like, the constraints of NASA, and kind of how Capitol Hill worked, to get them a shot. And on the company side, that's all you can ask for. You can't ask for any more than that. And then it's really on your shoulders to knock it out of the park and you usually only get one. It just requires this like, maniacal will to just work until you get that shot. And we've seen this in defense. Anduril and General Atomics, one of the major autonomous with the Air Force that the big primes, Boeing, Lockheed, and Northrop, lost. And that was kind of the, at least for me from my perspective, kind of the inflection point much in the same ways that in space launch. And here we are 20 years after that and what do we have? Complete domination of space launch and satellite capabilities back in the United States again. - Let's talk about commercial aviation: What does a world of ubiquitous, reasonably priced sonic - You will see as much travel going across the Atlantic Ocean as you see up and down the east coast of the United States today. So, whether that's daily business travel, I mean, I live in Atlanta, I spend a lot of time in Washington, D.C., a little bit of New York, and then some down in Florida. Those flights are If you expand the footprint where can you go in an hour and a half? You can now cross the Imagine the amount of trade and commerce. Britain and France will be as close to New York and Washington D.C. as London and Paris are today by train. 90 minutes. You're like, making this step change in activation energy for taking a trip, and it creates time. And time drives trade. And when you apply this not just across the Atlantic north and south, when you remove you'll see growth in you know, these cities that are connected, which we haven't seen in But if you like, look back in history, there are multiple examples of increasing the speed of transportation networks driving multiple single in the affected regions. A couple points of, of GDP growth may sound small, but like, when annual GDP is like, I don't know, 2%, 3%? If you're adding 2% or 3% to it, that's trillions of dollars. - But in a world where we with holograms and that I feel like I'm spending why does flying to a city in Europe help lubricate the mechanism of trade? - I mean, we're doing not over Zoom. There is something incredibly and the way that relationships are built that does not happen in a digital world, at least not yet, and I have a feeling for Maybe when we're all avatars, we'll see, but I think we learned when the whole world went virtual, most of humanity really felt And if you're able to take to a business deal where your competitors are all interfacing with your and you're there in person with them, who do you think has a better It's you. Face-to-face for humans is anytime soon. It's only going to become as more digital technologies come about. - Give us a quick snapshot you guys run after in the - Sure. So we've kind of set a just a little mantra of So that's the pace of iteration to solve the technical and deliver high-speed So, that's the next three for us. - In flying these unmanned aircraft, is this like, you on Microsoft Flight Sim? Like, who flies it? Is it you? - Oh, absolutely not. No. We have a group of really, really skilled and experienced test pilots who have flown a wide range crewed, un-crewed, that operate our aircraft and when they're in the air. As we build up the software we don't want the autonomy of getting the flight So we've kind of built a and then built up the and nothing better to help advance and accelerate the autonomy stack then actual flight data to support it. So, yeah, we've got a really awesome batch of flight test pilots who make sure that the aircraft does - If I were the CEO, I would insist that I would get to fly it. And that's why I'm not the CEO. I do love this image, and would love to see a of the flag in your facility dedicated to the test pilots who died. Your sacrifice, for now, but you're clearly sacrificing a lot that falls on your wife and your kids, your other co-founders. And so just wanna say thank you. You guys are making big sacrifices to build something really and could shape our businesses, our lives, and certainly our nation in amazing ways. And so, it's an amazing story to hear and really proud of all you built, and can't wait to be an early passenger. So, congrats on that. Appreciate you being here.