Last month I spent $238 buying subscriptions providers on the market today. Why? I want to services side by side: what features do they have their own mobile apps These are the five companies we're looking alternative to Gmail, Outlook or Yahoo that When stacking each of these encrypted I think it's important to note that all than a decade sending and receiving emails for risk that a company could go out of business or &lt;cough&gt; Skiff &lt;cough&gt; ...I've chosen these email providers that lends a certain amount of trust that We'll dive into encryption in a moment, laws of the countries in which they're located. regarded as one of the best for privacy not just but also because they are outside the Tuta, Mailfence and StartMail are based in all of which are part of the self-proclaimed "toughest privacy And finally we've got Hushmail based in Canada, laws and is better than the US for sure, but But does location really matter when we're even if a government requested my data or it shouldn't matter where that the data is end-to-end encrypted, but the problem is that the word "encryption" All of these service offer PGP support, which software architecture is important as well. is possible for them to decrypt and recover doing so requires two separate senior reside in on different continents and The obvious benefit to an architecture like this process in case you somehow lose access to on the other hand, takes all the encryption keys so if you lose it, there's This zero-knowledge architecture is the way claim to be designed. And I feel like I need marketing language and whitepaper explanations black and white answer. There is nuance and In theory, though, these companies can which from a privacy standpoint is a are solely responsible for your account security. Part of the security that I recommend, is what is Yubico. When you're dealing with secure email, but you also want to know that your account isn't enough when we're dealing with secure if somebody guessed your password or stole to your account unless they physically YubiKeys are an important part of my personal I know. They're actually the sponsor of this video only providers that accept YubiKeys right now. 2FA via a text message or authenticator email here - in my opinion, you should be able Well moving on, as I've gone about testing these replace my reliance on Google services, the thing product. What I mean by that is that my email my cloud storage. I need to send and receive or upload attachments. And if you care about the the privacy of your calendar - I don't want am at all times and who I'm meeting with - or cloud drive. When you separate those services, This is an area where both Proton and Mailfence encrypted calendar and cloud drive that product. Tuta has a very nice encrypted calendar but as of this filming it hasn't been Unfortunately, calendar and offered by StartMail and Hushmail, both Ok, at this point I'm going to power are important but I don't want First, if you want a native mobile app to access download on the iOS or Android app store - Proton, their own apps. In terms of aliases, which is the to your inbox, Proton, StartMail and Hushmail all Mailfence limit you based on your plan, starting All of these encrypted email providers but StartMail is the only one that pay $.85 extra per month to do it. I And finally, the pricing. The average which makes Tuta the best value and So what do I recommend? After using all of these either Proton Mail or Tuta, which I'll explain but for Mailfence I really wish they would the same thing applies but they drive services that I need in order to At the end of the day, I suggest you go with and the suite of other privacy services If you just want the strongest email at the And whichever you choose, if you then go purchase two YubiKeys for yourself - the highest possible protection for your account. which I've talked about in a previous me to invest in a secure email service I'm sure there are other things I've forgotten in the comments, but if you want to see a full which I'll keep updated with any