- This is an actual death ray! - It's a finely controlled, That's exactly what it is. - So if this is a death ray, that means this is a This robot will happily murder you and your whole Every weed that grows in a farm field is taking nutrients away so weeds are literally trying So, meet the robot army Why do this? - We don't like weeds. They're our enemy, so - Weed control is the number and it turns out there's a in the weed population, to be made more toxic every year. - Aside from herbicides, rid of weeds is not great. We plow them, which can or we resort to the tried and true method, back-breaking labor. - Our focus was to not have to have humans in the field in these grueling conditions. - Using lasers guided by AI, these robots can kill all the weeds without an ounce of pesticide, - That energy just completely - How will these robots change the way we make food? Stick around to see how they work, and what it'll mean for you. This is &quot;Hard Reset,&quot; a series about rebuilding our world from scratch. It might not seem like a good idea to walk into a lab where scientists are designing an army of killer robots, but that depends on what those We came to Seattle to meet They're building robots that kill weeds with fricking laser beams. - Carbon Robotics builds the world's first and only LaserWeeder. We use AI, computer vision, deep learning, and very high-powered lasers to kill weeds in farmer's fields. - This is Paul Mikesell, the founder of Carbon Robotics and owner of the world's coolest hat. - Oh yeah, this is my LaserWeeder hat. Well, I don't think we make these anymore. - I was not able to get one of these hats. - Yeah, that's right. - These robots are the latest advancement in an arms race with weeds that - It is an arms race, yeah, have been, you know, pull those - If you're not interested by hand, we did invent which has led to all sorts of other forms of mechanical tillage. - Which is different through the dirt to spin stuff up. In the '50s and '60s, we developed a lot of these herbicides, and it are getting less effective every year. It's just like how we got an in the human population because Well, you get the same As you keep spraying these chemicals, the weeds that you tried to kill, the ones that survived that - And those tough weeds go on to have tough babies, or maybe even harder to - So we need a different solution. We knew we could make machines be able to detect and identify crops and weeds; we knew that that was possible. And then the question was: What's the best way to kill these weeds? And lasers was just one of - I think the coolest is that this is the only time at living things and everybody's happy. - Well, that's probably the most specific career goal I've ever heard. This is Alex Sergeev. - He's the CTO of Carbon but not as cool as Paul's. - So the way LaserWeeder it will take images of the ground, and detect all the weeds, - By using AI, these robots identify weeds before humans can even spot them. - The weeds that we're trying One or two millimeters is the weed that we can detect from three feet high. But that makes us use very 144 megapixels of just weed detection. - The LaserWeeder uses all these cameras and AI to identify and then so that it can feed that - And that laser beam kills these weeds through thermal energy that and the cell walls of the weeds. There's no surviving that attack. - Like most everybody, my favorite movies involve But even though these movies taught me that lasers are dangerous and inescapable, they've never really So let's find out. Basically, the innermost is filled with a mix of As we run electricity it excites and creates a plasma. That plasma inside the to what you have in a or a neon sign at your favorite Anyway, all that plasma these particles that bounce back and forth and back and forth One of these mirrors is after its reached a certain threshold. That is a laser beam. - How long can the laser - About 10,000 hours. - Oh, so you can just run that laser, if you wanted to like carve - That's right, yeah. - Yeah, you can totally do it. - Am I gonna burn a hole in the wall? - No. an elementary school over there? - No. So here we'll do a demonstration where we can use these little tokens. The middle of this target is the weed. And so we just gonna it's gonna keep running, and spit out at the end here. - Cool, shall we? - So how powerful is this laser? well enough to mess up these Keep in mind, these wooden targets, while cool, are not the real enemy. The real enemy is out trying to starve us and I cannot wait to kill my So it's one thing to design but would farmers even want this, when there are already so - When I saw that there was that could use a non-chemical based media to eliminate weeds in our Kind of like a kid in a candy store- not to be cliche, you want it now. - This is Josh Roberts. He's one of the farmers these killer robots loose on his farm. - Using technology is one of the most exciting parts of our job. We're trying to spread isn't that stereotypical - But just to be clear, - I do, I do have a pitch fork or two. Initially, it hits you with a glaring sensory experience from your eyes. And then as you move that the actual weeds are - I'll tell you what it smells like, Josh, it smells like victory. But it's worth mentioning it's cooking today are not really weeds, but they're so they're both weeding and - This opened a lot of It's very valuable to us the amount of chemical - Look, herbicides have done a tremendous amount of good in the world. They're a big part of what made the Green Revolution possible, and contributed to saving But using chemical Some of their effects and if nothing else, they're expensive. If we didn't need to use them to control weeds why would we? And for some crops, isn't even an option, which means the only way to remove It doesn't sound like a fun job. - No, it's not a fun job. It is not an exaggeration to say that human labor-based weed A lot of times those people are working on their hands and knees, removing plants with their fingers. - It is very hard for farmers to be out in the field and It gets harder every year. - There is never going on a ranch or a farming operation. But what we're trying to to be desperate for that labor. - The only thing I am desperate to do is kill some weeds with lasers. So I enlisted to be part So today I have gotten to accomplish two of my lifelong dreams: One, driving an enormous and two, collaborating And right now it's killing weeds, including that one that is 30 feet ahead, that I will kill in about 14 minutes, because I'm going so very, very slow. So very slow. Even though this tractor is not gonna be in &quot;Gran Turismo&quot; anytime soon, this is actually about 80 times faster than having humans do the same work. - To see the weeds explode, and to have that come to maturity without any weeds, is very exciting and gratifying. It makes you think what other to solve problems on the ranch? - Problems like how we're destroying our topsoil with intensive plowing. - There's a reason why they think we have only 50 to 60 good years of and a lot of it is because the types of constant tillage and - Over the past century, as we've plowed and plowed we've destroyed a huge - Every time you do this, some That topsoil just erodes and You can't grow stuff anymore. - That topsoil isn't just nice to have. It's what we need to make all our food. - So not having to dig part of that is just the about what we're targeting that energy means we don't - Technologies like this could enable no-till farming, that vital topsoil that literally feeds our entire civilization. You know, no big deal. So, picture a scenario where we rebuilt agriculture from the ground up with this new weapon against Ask yourself if we would use practices like intensive plowing or spraying chemical herbicides if we didn't have to. Probably not. - So if we can kill it makes me very excited about what's to come in the next five years. - With AI and lasers, we maybe never need another And as this technology gets it could work in ways we - I think in 10 years we're gonna be able to have small enough will be kind of applicable everywhere. - We will eventually be able to bring full autonomy to the farms, a lot more about what's going on, on an inch-by-inch basis, - I see a farm of the future to tell us what's best from We will farm specifically to We can feed the world for less- that's the value for me in the - Could we ever really even with a weapon like this? - None of this is just you You have to be really It's not a war that you win, it's an ecology that you take part in. - So I think the bright cross-country flight at night. And as we're flying along, I can look down and see there's little spots of bright, strobing light on the ground, knowing that they're not using herbicides. - Josh Roberts interview, Josh Roberts, take interview. Second sticks. I need coffee.