Thanks Keeps for sponsoring this video. These are what I like to call one dollar steaks. As nice marbling between them. I'm just joking! Because and I'm talking about the eye round. Me and this cut of with it and for good reason you see the problem however it's also extremely flavorful. So my and I have done some crazy experiments with it. down below later on. But once I removed all of I ended up with some beautiful steaks. That is going to try to tenderize this with baking soda. Chinese restaurants all over the world have been beef and broccoli, most likely you had baking soda the steak a lot more tender. Well today we're And my goal by the end of this video is to tenderizer for steaks. This is the baking And here we have the star of the show, baking The most interesting thing about this is I mean did you know that if you mix this in food that is something I was not expecting. And yes some people use it for that reason that's refrigerator, it keeps the bad odor out and trust I know it works. With all that being said now that experiment. And since I have quite a few of steaks most importantly so I do not confuse which steak this way we will make our experiment much The very first one is gonna be the control, this is something I like to do that it's called dry very simple, you basically season your steak with the salt can penetrate nicely and deeply into the and at least to me it is the best method to have same exact thing but instead of using salt I only was nicely covered but at the same time without baking soda on it. And like I always said I did layer is the way to go. Now the only thing left for four hours. Now the very next one we're gonna works; I first added the baking soda, then I threw a while moisture will come out because of the with the baking soda and once that's done it will what osmosis is. Now is this gonna have a much Well we're gonna find out real soon because now my refrigerator for four hours. Once the time was This red color is a sign that the salt penetrated processed underneath. We know this works and baking soda by itself, as you can clearly see It also gave a nice red color to the steak it feels soft. Yes a little bit more tender, and it that is a wonderful thing. The only thing I have I've tasted baking soda before and it does not real shortly. As you know we still have this one the salt did its job however you can clearly see it did not penetrate as much as the baking soda more tender if I had to give a scale from 1 to 10 soda only I would give it a five, But this one I is working. Actually it's working quite a bit. But all off, hopefully this will take out that weird it off I already know it's going to be terrible it does. I made sure to rinse every single steak am totally aware that I'm also removing a little salt did its job. So I went ahead and re-seasoned there was no need for salt. To season them I added garlic powder, because as you already know that them perfectly seasoned the only thing left to I'll be first putting a beautiful sear on them them in indirect heat until I reach an internal done it's time to taste. So now i say it is enough Before moving forward I want to thank today's nephew Angel has rocked 250,000 different types and prevent hair loss, this advice is for him and experience some form of male pattern baldness by hair loss is to be proactive. So Angel you're gonna goldendoodle mane going on. Keeps treatment typically so it is important to act fast. The sooner you So to find out why Keeps has more than five why so many men trust Keeps for their hair loss easy access to hair loss treatment from home with versions of the only two FDA approved hair loss take action and prevention against hair loss go to this video. Head to keeps.com/gugafoods to get All right everybody here we have our beautiful amazing. -It does smell fantastic. We obviously have -That goes without saying. -You already used to it, I don't That's what I love to do everybody, I love to every single experiment I do even if it's a fail I so here's the deal, today we are testing tenderness flavor because well I'm not gonna say anything. -Maumau is already sweating bullets and I like Oh I even got a hiccup on that one wow. -Wow -Huh -I see you even went for a -I don't want to be here chewing gum for Even though it was hard when I poke it it's not -But, you still chewing? -It feels soft when you to keep chewing it, and chewing it, and chewing it. -Yes! And is phenomenal everybody. I would say that this bite it, it has a nice give. -Yeah. -It's just that's what you get when you eat an eye round Maumau, than the usual eye round. -It is a little bit softer because I dry brined it. You know what I mean? Every and makes your steak better everybody. I'm telling do it. Let's go for the second one Maumau. So, you already and you're still chewing. Look at Maumau you're still chewing. So that's our control if any other ones is more tender than that I want flavor yeah. -Okay. -Cheers everybody! Huh! What do you think Maumau? -Where these three from the same piece of meat? -Same piece of meat, same roast. That one is weird because this one was soft when you chew but the fibers didn't break it. -Mm-hmm. -That -So you would say that it is more tender? -It is more say this, it has a different flavor. Can you tell? I asked you for the same because it didn't taste this uh a little bit uh different flavor. How do I would say this is a much more tender steak taste is better. -I prefer chew a little bit more steak than a softer steak right Maumau? So that's what happened absolutely. -It is more tender. -It is more tender, -All right let's see. -I mean it's just they're just so, so, so not tender everybody. More tender. But I can, do you feel that yeah that flavor is weird everybody. That's a whatsoever. -No it takes the beefiness from the everybody if you ask me does it work is it more but I am going for the first one because the say this one feels like a mix of this two, because one breaks apart but it's not that soft. That taste. Maumau give me five Maumau you are becoming a space I mean a steak expert everybody because you're right on the money. Here's the deal I added a little bit of baking soda Maumau I know it you know when you go to chinese restaurant and with broccoli and stuff. -Yeah. -They always put a -You know what I mean? -We eat stuff with baking soda flavor to the steak man. I'm telling you right now it work, does it work? -It works. -It works, it makes going back for the first one. -Oh that first one is the -It's like a chewing gum. -It's just a little bit more. by chewing it with your mouth. -There you go! -Hey Maybe if you're going to put a sauce on it. -That's yeah. -Yeah. -Then it can cover the flavor of the steak. -You cover the flavor. And you cover that too. -If you cover the flavor it would be good but if an amazing grilled steak, it just doesn't work. It more tender let's be clear let's give it up where Anyway guys these are the results I hope you guys it a thumbs up, if you're not a subscriber be sure interested in anything I use everything is always for watching and as you guys can see Maumau enjoyed have a much more wonderful tasting steak than Guys thank you for watching and we'll see