The inequalitiy is getting wider. The rich are doing extremely well. Extraordinarily well. Across the developed world inequality has increased. Business is doing well. Business profit margins: terrific compared to the record historically. In the past, the people who have had a lot more wealth have used an effective tool That tool has been religion. The King deserves to be king The nobility deserves to have much more than the peasants End of story. But then came the Enlightenment and An idea so powerful that it fueled an idea so powerful that it can be found in Our constitutions. The US Declaration of Independence starts off by establishing The UN Declaration of Human Rights states born free and equal. Also, in my home country, Sweden, establishes the equal worth This idea that everyone is created equal did create problems for Because if everyone is created equal, can no longer use religion the fact that some people have vastly So what has happened Have we now eliminated inequality Well, we all know that we What has happened instead have replaced religion for inequality. The premise that is the opening line of And while we don't We've strived to deliver equal opportunity. Equality of opportunity instead of trying to achieve the equality Meritocracy is the tool we use to achieve social mobility is the evidence actually works. The idea that success being born into wealth It depends on effort... and merit. In this video, I've decided to look into this Enlightenment-friendly justification And to do that, I traveled from Stockholm and journalist Petter Larsson, who Rigged: How the Belief in Meritocracy Lessens A lot of people believe that we have to become anything. The carpenter's daughter can become a professor, the cleaner's' son and it creates a lot of lots of problems First of all, because it's not true second of all, because people believe it to be true. This is the Hollywood actor, You've probably seen him in or in any other of the 100 Stellan has many sons. For example, Alexander, famous from True Blood Gustav, who's also a successful actor Bill, who's also a successful actor Valter, who's also a successful actor And another child who's A year ago, the term "Nepo Baby" and has since been written To me, the popularity of this term hints to how power and wealth are distributed The Skarsgard family is an obvious But if you start looking for Nepo baby And not only within So what do the families like these and say about social mobility and in turn about meritocracy Since we as a society much about inequality and instead our society has a highly limited number For every such scarce position that to the next within families that There's one less position of wealth that someone from a family So if all positions of wealth and power generations, then we don't really have the social mobility that we have a meritocratic society In other words, that today's justification Of course, some may dismiss Nepo babies that don't reflect society's It turns out, though, that there is a whole field of research and the metrics researchers use persistence. Persistence is how alike are children and their parents? How much of the parents advantages and disadvantages Because you do not inherit 100% class You inherit a percentage on average. So what you do is that and you compare them to the average And then you take the children to the average And then you can calculate between parents and children So persistence is how much remains, from your parents or from your upbringing? Persistence is often like education, health and occupation. But most studies or intergenerational earnings elasticity. Essentially, researchers examine to their parents, and the researchers First of all, income persistence varies Countries like have high persistence levels, in other words, low Countries like Denmark, Norway of persistence in other words, more economic mobility Now, even these low figures of correlations when it comes to income, let's say Sweden, where we have a persistence of, say 30%, that means that 30% is inherited which means that it takes for a family that starts at the bottom 10% to reach the average 100 years, 3 or 4 generations. Second, researchers have also found that there seems to be a connection between Countries with low levels of economic tend to have higher levels of inequality Researchers call this Inequality tends to cement itself, by making social mobility more difficult. If there is a huge distance between, say, in a country, it's also from the bottom to the top. Indeed, the research shows that within each country, persistence is not Instead, there are what researchers meaning that the poorest children are likely to stay within Most of the actual mobility occurs A study has even shown that among among the .01 percent, The research we've looked at so far, indicates that social mobility is so low for a poor family But it gets worse clever methods to measure social mobility And what they have discovered In the year 1066, William the Conqueror and his troops and defeated King Harold that would end up having huge consequences but also for our understanding today Now, what happened the Normans conquered England, the Anglo-Saxons as a ruling Now, every state official, every they were replaced by Normans. So in a few decades, England changed their ruling class, it happened very fast. Now, happily enough, we know the names of these Norman conquerors. Montgomery, Talbot, Darcy... So why does this matter? Why does it matter that researchers today know the rare surnames of the ruling elite Well, because researchers have been able elite 1000 years ago to track social More specifically, the economic historian admission lists to the elite universities, and analyzed whether the Norman surnames there across the generations. That way he's been able to infer In the end today there is of Norman offspring, of these families with these Norman names at Oxbridge. So it's taken a thousand years. I mean the thousand years, really long time as a little bit above average These researchers, not going back a thousand years, in several other countries and they have come up with persistence which is far more all these huge changes Democratization. Mass education. Industrialism. Capitalism. Which all have happened I shouldn't say that it hasn't changed it doesn't seem to have affected Despite that, researchers have and 50% of Americans since everyone in the country And 32% of Swedes and 46% of Americans because of a lack of effort on his 38% of Swedes and 39% of Americans because he or she This is Oprah Winfrey. She was born into poverty single mother, facing abuse Today, she's a multibillionaire and one of This is Andrew Carnegie, who worked in a Pittsburgh By the end of his life, he had transformed and became one of the richest This is Howard Schultz, raised in in Brooklyn where he Today, he's a billionaire as the driving force behind These stories, rags-to-riches for upholding the illusion of social mobility. You could take a Jan Eliasson. His father was a metalworker, he was born in a working class And it becomes the deputy secretary That is really, really an achievement. Or Zlatan Ibrahimovic, for example, from who becomes a world renowned football player Now these stories from rags-to-riches they sell the idea and it is for a few people, but it sells it to everybody. And that is a really important function. Now, the French sociologist he call these Les Miraculeux Their function is to to make while for the big majority it is not. In his book, Petter argues that these stories help Why? The belief, that we live in a meritocratic society, which people tend to see that means that they are willing to accept larger inequality the poor people are lazy, they are not that talented, the successful people, they are considered So in that sense would be fair to And this effect is actually been measured who has found that the more unequal a country is, the more its inhabitants Jonathan Mijs calls this and if you stop to think about it, because if you recall the more unequal a country is, the higher In other words, the more unequal a society But despite that, people tend to believe in these unequal societies. The illusion just grows stronger and at the same time in the real world inequality they go hand in hand. My name is Andres Acevedo a channel where I publish short law, fairness and capitalism. I decided to make this one after I read If you can read Swedish, I highly The book forced me to challenge my own it did leave me thinking about my own Obviously, the book includes much more than I will let Petter say a few more but before that... since you've come this far, maybe you If so, please help me out by liking the video, and most importantly, by sharing the video I want to make more documentaries like this, But for me to keep doing that, I need your support. If you like what I'm doing on this channel, Now, let's hear some more from Petter Larsson. This is what it looks like in Swedish. The book is divided into two parts where in the first empirical part, I see to what and to what extent do we inherit traits, advantages or from our upbringing. And in the second part, which is the more what type of problems do these