[mellow acoustic guitar plays] [door opens] [Peter] Morning, guys. When most people think of California they're thinking of or the Golden Gate Bridge but what many don't know is So today we're gonna get into it Far north of the cities to get an understanding Let's do this. [music continues] -[Peter] It's beautiful out here. This is Crazy River Ranch and we also raise a lot of fruit, And then this is our cider barn and we actually built this barn. This was a community effort of people. -So this is all round timber pole. I had a pole stripping party I went around and told everybody, &quot;Hey, we're gonna have -That brought people in? 'Cause people would be like, &quot;What?!&quot; [Peter] Okay, so Brett, they're not thinking this. -In fact I leave Humboldt Oh yeah, California is so big My dad was in the but this exact press, I saw in a barn So this is a pre-prohibition press. It's amazing to think this thing A lot of it was for hard cider This was the 959th one -You're carrying on the tradition. Doing our best. [chuckles] -This is my friend Jessica. -You're in the video. -Cool, you're part of the production. [apples tumble] [Brett] A lot of people think but this apple is called Ashmead's Kernel, So old English apple People have continued to grow it. -Okay. -They might be a little on the ripe side. Oh, yeah. -This is gonna make [machine clacking] [clacking and grinding] [Brett] We planted all the trees We planted every single tree. See this? [bucket thumps] -That's-- That's Humboldt County gold right there. And then we actually will ferment it There's a lot of products labeled cider This is very different because this is-- -Like Angry Orchard? -Yeah, a lot of-- Yeah. Even a lot of micro-cideries but they buy all their ingredients and a lot of it is coming of not necessarily fruit but fruit that was left over [Peter] We're gonna 'cause you do a lot of things and how I found out about you because you're an amazing -[country music plays in background] But I want everyone to know who's watching for whatever we talk about today I want to spread what you're doing Gonna have Brett's links down below if you wanna check out more in-depth -Here you go. That's the free juice. So that's the juice -Cheers. [Brett chuckles] -[Peter refreshed] Ah. [Peter] This is nice. -[Brett] Should we go make some friends? [Peter] So this part of California you go that way and you're going into basically one of the most Fair to say, right? There's some pretty There's a bunch that run into each other. There's the Trinity Alp Wilderness, A lot of people don't know the history were coming here, fur trappers, That's kind of the history everywhere. The story of humanity, right? -It's been happening. [Brett yells] Hey, op! [Peter] They're not really Do they know what's going on, Brett? They might be nervous, [Peter] So this is grass-fed, [Brett] Well this month -Where do you sell the meat? -At our local farmer's market. We're not there today 'cause we're Oh, nice. Happy birthday. No chemicals out here at all? -No, we do not put any chemicals [Brett] I started my first farm when and it was three acres We worked our asses off It was really hard work but I loved it. I loved being outside, literally and it's really vulnerable because your whole livelihood or frost in this case. We had an early frost and it was tough and over the years, when I first moved I started an organic vegetable farm I didn't know about -That's what Humboldt's known for. -Okay. -When you talk about any sort of D-R-U-G -The AI can suppress the video. I gotta be careful but I think weed Okay, so that's what Humboldt's I didn't know that there was... I knew that was one of but I didn't know I had customers They would pull out and they would peel off a couple I was curious so I asked them, And you have, but a very interesting story on this topic -If you're cool with it. Okay. [Brett] We're gonna go through this gate. We're gonna go see my neighbor, Ken When I moved here he was just here. When we were first out here and when Julia and I were getting married &quot;You have a Jarvela?&quot;, -She's like, &quot;The painting.&quot; She goes, &quot;He's a famous artist.&quot; and I go, &quot;Ken, he lives in a trailer -He paints the full moon. This guy will keep himself up all night and hike up to the redwoods and he'll be there painting the redwoods So there's a lot of talent out here. Oh yeah. Right. It's because the nature inspires it? I think that's part of it. To live here you have to and nature or you won't make it Like the economy. In the '60s, '67 was the summer of love For those that don't know, Yeah, so there was this convergence of who were disenfranchised Yep. The Vietnam War, corporations, all these things, and then it was so much energy and so after the summer of love So they came up, but really quite a bit Humboldt County, Trinity County, So these places, the communities So very hard working-- -[Peter whispers] Oh, the deer. -Oh no, look there. See them? My camera won't get it -Yeah, our excitement. [Peter] Okay, so they came up here... Yeah, and so these communities and fishing, and ranching. So very salt of the earth-type people. Also very conservative in their values. And then you have these hippies. You know, these pot smokin', free lovin'... A lot of artists. A lot of artists you know? And people that wanted to get Who were like, &quot;We need to be That's made the whole Emerald Triangle It's made it sort of Where you have people living close to each other -Okay. That's what I think's really beautiful because I see and there's no communication. No real communication. If you don't agree with me or if you don't agree with me, and these labels to keep us divided. Right. But here we have people and there's some of that here of course but I feel like people of another opinion that's not theirs. I take my dad hunting. My dad's a disabled Veteran I see the way people are there It's very divided. they're like, &quot;What the heck Right, California has Yeah. [Brett] To me, I feel like -Yeah. [Brett] Here, you can't get away from it. It's like you have to accept I think some places, they might fall... Like you might go somewhere in the city and they cannot stand or somebody that would vote differently and they're very scared. -Right, lot of fear right now. Yeah. -A lot of it I find-- [Peter] Oh, yeah. A lot of it I find Between the politicians and the media and this video's [laughter] Maybe we'll have a whole new bit -This is your buddy? -How you doing? Peter. -Peter? -What does that stand for? -Ah. -I had a designer come up with it. I like incongruity. -But they balance. -The weight, balance of it, right? -Thank you. That means a lot coming from you -Hey. -Hey, you too. [Peter] This is beautiful. How long have you been painting for, Ken? -45 years maybe. -Not long enough. How old is that tree would you say? -1,500, 1,200. [Peter] Look at this. -How long have you lived in this area? Just right up there. But he's born and raised -Yeah, just over the hill here. [Peter] So tell us about Humboldt. Oh, man. It's a wide question but I'll tell ya, it has a hold on me. I've lived away a couple times, -Okay. Man, and you just stand there, &quot;F*ck, that's my home. [laughter] You gotta, you know, it draws you back for whatever reason. Why fight it? Listen to your soundtrack here. Here's your soundtrack. [river gently flowing and birds chirping] [Peter] That's hard to get away from. You think about what was it like, Man, it was all like this. Hundred thousand years ago, the skies are like this. The light, So this, I was thinking today and it works. Usually that sounds like a bad thing. Right here, man, this is showing you 425 years ago [Peter] Right, that tree was standing Oh yeah, and all of that wood [grunting and imitating Natives] That's probably not very close. And there's some days It doesn't give a sh*t -Look at these clouds, they don't care. [Ken] Just doing their thing That one's going [Ken mumbles] This one's got a look to it here. Prah! [Peter softly] Yeah, Ken. Yeah, when you get back and that's... You want the first reaction when you You don't want to have to go up -[Brett] He's a mountain man. -Ken is a true mountain man. -Okay. It's like when you see... He goes out and paints in nature and so he will go up in the summertime he'll have three packs. He might be going 15 miles in. He's gonna hike up one mile with one pack, -So for every mile he has to hike six. But the thing is he will do that he will also do that and go up there, just so he can be there to paint the moon and all his friends, myself included, You can paint anything you see but when your out there and there's not much room for error. That's when you start seeing. The here today, gone tomorrow And all summer long if you came down here every day, oh man, and the rocks, there's this and that. Winter comes, what the hell happened? Everything is different. The river's on the other side of the... Like with this grass here, there's all kinds of nice detail but you look at that tree and what does this look like It looks like a blur of nothing. And that's mostly what we see The only thing we can focus on So our brain fills in the rest but to get it in a painting what it That's the key. Some day. [birds chirping] [Brett] Hey, do you got your balance? [Peter] Yeah. Still has some good flex in it. [Brett] It's about nine feet deep and it's about 14 feet over there. I try to go almost every day all year. Sometimes in the winter but I try to get in the water every day. We put this log here, it wasn't here and you'd just put your feet in, &quot;Ooh, am I gonna do it?&quot; -This, you have no choice. -Once you go, you're in there. [laughs] -Does anyone live in these? We just got them sided, -What a cool door frame. -But this one is a dry shed right now. So got walnuts -Weed. -We'll have to blur that out. [Brett] This was just This is our greenhouse. -Oh, yeah. -This is all built out of wood. [Brett] Here, have one. It's kind of the end of the season These are about to die out -These are the sungolds. Wow, how do you eat You don't. We should bring Eric some. -You mind if I go for more? You can take 'em home I'll get you some ground beef too. -Mmm. So it must feel so good Well just... I used to rent-- You can't stop and reflect on it A lot of farmers So just 'cause you are here Things like all the taxes or mortgage or that kind of stuff. But it does... I used to lease when I first lived here and I wouldn't have felt confident that doesn't start maturing for ten years if I didn't own the land. So that part feels good, you know? It's also a lot of responsibility. A lot of times it's romanticized. People think they want that I love being-- -And watching it through -Yeah. But there's also you have to sometimes physical suffering But I feel like and I suffer a little less every year. -Okay, so even at your stage there is -Well... through everything I've seen a number of times in my life Like where that fear is up I think everybody feels like things And just... Just the property taxes alone It's like paying rent, you know? Just to be on your land forever. -Who owns the land then? That's a good question. 'Cause I had this fantasy of being back and then seeing that I have to in order to stay here forever. I have a contract with the government and it's not insignificant, and when everywhere you turn and they're always making more sometimes that stuff feels like Like you could be wiped out In the '80s there was and we're seeing this everywhere. You have four companies most people who are they're not actually independent. They have a contract. They might own the land, but they don't even own their birds. They don't have any say so and that's where there is of just realizing that you are the government, society, everything. And then as an organic producer They're more expensive. It would be much cheaper If we sprayed the rows... I'll show you. We'll go down here, I'll show you. This is what we're doing to the land. It's mulch. We're building the soil. That's organic material and it's... You can see how... Look, I can It's not compacted and there's mycelium. You can see the white. and this is how we manage Pretty much the whole industry or another form of herbicide So when you go have the juice They're using in this country alone every year and so when I go and need I might even be with a local person but they choose to do it differently in a way that they might spray and their apples might look bigger, I have to go in there and ask for price and sometimes I have At the same time I know people It's like wow, I'm asking you but I have to... you know? That's the challenge. When you say, &quot;Are you stoked?&quot; it's like well it comes [guitar case thuds] [Brett] What's up, neighbor? [man] I can't go to your house I'm only two hours late. I got some juice for ya. I got the good stuff, the Humboldt... -You want to bring some to your sister? -Thank you, neighbor. Moonshiners right in the middle That's how it works, eh? We pretty much would not have been able They've helped us since day one. When we were building that barn we'd come down to Freddy's, Rose's place Fred kinda showed me how to Whenever I've been in a pinch I was gonna sell out to couldn't beat this guy, you know? [laughs] I think we provided We gotta get to the market -So we're gonna keep going. I'm two hours late. I was gonna swing by -It's done. -We'll see you, neighbor. When we first moved out here probably about six months there were federal police and it was all over the news. Stressful. And I did not know how this could impact 'cause they were amazing. It was like having adopted grandparents and now I'm wondering like There's... I was not arrested at that time but I was wondering how I got this message from Freddie &quot;Hey there, neighbor, So I just went ahead and took care Anyway, that message and little did I know Freddie called up his buddy Elmer who at that time was in his 80s and they went over to my pace -Yeah. They grabbed the loader, and they moved it all over to his house and I was like, whoa. When I found out he'd done that &quot;Freddy, oh my God. Thank you.&quot; He just looked at me and he goes, &quot;Brett, the feds have been making a big deal out of nothing.&quot; And we've been on that level ever since. It was like that actually -Why were the feds there There was like a weed bust. Somebody got busted and they gave a list of 30 names. They named all these people that they'd and this person said on two occasions So they weren't saying this whatever who once upon a time I didn't have any weed growing out here but I ended up getting They wanted me to snitch. And they have this thing called A lot of them came under Clinton. Part of the drug war. And mandatory minimums Judges don't have power anymore, and they use that power to get people the only way for you to get This does not work at the state level, I say that 'cause they use hearsay -They don't need a wiretap, drug bust-- They don't need nothing, In fact it's so common I never knew that till I went -Ghost dope? And it's so common And you can imagine you can imagine -...or it ain't even true at all. Or if someone wants to put you Yeah, and like in my case, and let me tell you, I mean they had the theme right, but before I went, Fred and Rose asked and Julia was out and they said, &quot;Look, if you wanna come...&quot; you know, it's kinda lonely to be on in the dark.&quot; We did not have electricity at that time. So basically Fred and Rose invited Julia and she didn't take 'em up on it but it meant a lot -Five years, can you talk about it at all? Well it's been a little bit of time now Every year, and I've been from some of the parts about it They basically said, &quot;Well, we think for ten years and we think you've been and so they made this whole number up they said I grew or whatever. They told me the only way to get was to snitch and not only would I So eventually they ended up doing They threatened me with even more time. They said you have -Oh, geez. So I got that call from my attorney for a year and a half. So this is just anxiety, -Right So I asked my attorney, I'm like, that ten year mandatory and he called them So I plead guilty and I got five years and when I came home in 2017 California was going through and it was like a big green rush I mean there was people from all over who were investing in farms When I got out they released me which is just another private prison. But the let you out I'm going down the street, and it was so many people. It was like going to the club and they told me, &quot;Oh, weed's legal now.&quot; There's a new dispensary that's opened and I'd just gotten out of prison And in some ways it's really beautiful. It's so beautiful for people is on the downward trend but on the other hand what a bunch of bullsh*t There's a saying in prison which is, &quot;You can either do your You can be a victim and powerless or you can make use of the time you have When I first went to prison I was bitter. I was angry. I was mad at the government. I was so mad at those snitches. I thought, So I had all this anger and resentment towards the government and I figured out pretty early on I will become just bitter and I saw men in there who'd done and who were bitter. -And I could see it was toxic. And so for me the big thing has been learning how to heal and that's about forgiveness. Which is just a word. It's easy to say but it's something to explore and it really changed the [mellow acoustic guitar plays] [Brett] I think six is good. All right. Hopefully nobody steals my guitar. [Peter laughs] You gotta take chances though, you know? -We're coming up on the farmer's market? This is one of the most incredible It's part of what makes the culture here [Peter] How often is this going on? Every Saturday all year. I told you last year -Can I give you some mushrooms? -What's up, bro? -Good how about you? -Little documentary? -Heck yeah. -Thanks, man. What is this? -Shiitake. Okay, so these next people They have the only oxen farm -The only what farm? -[Brett] Hi. Want some juice? [laughter] -[Peter] Appreciate it. You're in it now. [Brett] Look at all this. This is gorgeous. [Brett] All these people are amazing. -[man] Hey. Am I chuggin' it or something? We'll give you that in a second We just pressed this a couple hours ago on the old press from the 1800s. -The one you have there in the shop? And it has six different kinds about half of it is Ashmead's Kernal -Ooh. -So... Yeah dude, I just wanted for helping us get those [Brett] They raise eggs, I'm a sixth generation dairy farmer here in Humboldt. [Peter] Sixth gen on the same land? On the same... Yeah, actually and then we have multiple generations that were dairy family farmers as well. -Wow, that's cool. [Brett] They also have a farm to scoop where literally the milk they make it into ice cream In fact I'll tell you it's called, um, -Jersey Scoops. -You want a little pause for drama. [Peter] They have some -Yeah, the downtown arcade is cool. [Peter] Jacoby's, beautiful. [Brett] It's only a half gallon. but here's some fresh cider -Thanks, dude. [man] Hey, before I forget What's that? -What's up with this guy? [Peter] He's aggressive. [Brett] He surprised me 'cause So he flew in. [man] Who's birthday is it? My birthday was on Monday. -Happy birthday. So you're gonna come, right? -We'll talk to you. Is there gonna be a grill tonight? We're gonna make a fire We cook on fire. What's in your bag, Dom? Chilean guavas. -Oh, have you ever had one of those? -Will you give one to Peter. -[Brett] You got a ripe one? -[man] Crack it open and-- Yeah, but don't eat the skin. Really? I always eat the skin. -You can but it tastes -Oh, yeah. -Interesting. But those bitters, [Peter] Mmm. Chilean guava? -Yeah, totally different fruit. -Flagella, is that what they call 'em? Something like that. It's Portuguese. -It's great. Thank you. -I'll see you guys. That's a farmer right there, Mike. He's been growing food for this community Some of these farmers His root vegetables, his carrots and really they are affordable. You know, so those people, Yeah. This is definitely not a food desert, -No. -Food oasis. -Yeah. When I came home from prison I needed to find and the trees were still young so this was a rundown burnt-out It was blighted and it sat on the market. Nobody wanted to touch this place and we just started working on it. We brought in all these plants, [Peter] So right after you got out I had actually started on this We were able to do and Julia kept it going. When I got home we worked to make it [Peter] This is cool. It's so cozy. Do you own this? -The bank owns it but-- -Yeah. [Peter] So if someone's -Yeah, it's online. -Front Porch Inn. This is the cabin. I wanna show you one that we did with Ken. Let's go this way though. [door creeks] [Peter] It's got a hobbit feel to it. Yeah, it has an earthen roof. These are planks that we milled up. Julia and I, we harvested We did all these rafters. So her and I went up to the mountains and we brought 'em here, and we... I built this when I came home from prison. This sauna. -How did that feel after being in prison? In some ways this was Also it was just trying Like I said, the farm's been really tough so it's helping just being In fact you look across the nation, actually have more than one gig. Most of us do. -You stay in farming for the love of it? Yeah, and the importance. If you can't do food it's like it's the most fundamental thing It's the most important thing, And we try to do both in a good way. [Brett] Grab that knob Turn it all the way to the left. -This one? -[water hisses] -[water splashes] [Brett] Feel that. -Hold on, there it comes. [Brett] It'll be hot. Here comes the steam. [Peter] Oh, yeah. That's so cool. -This is that wood. [water flow stops] We're going this way, Peter. -Fern canyon? [Brett] And then there's another room. There's two clawfoots in there I'll show you this over here. Base Camp. This is what Ken did. [Peter] What a cool place. [Brett] This is a whole team. This is community thing. We have a lot Whether it's the farm We're just part of it. So you could roast s'mores here at night? -Um, maybe in the fire outside. [Peter] No s'mores. [Peter] So I did the stonework though. I got about to here so my friends finished it. It's so cool how you guys integrated Into the camp stove. [Brett] Look at that axe. -Ken painted all of this? -[Peter] That's so cool. [Brett] Probably 1,500 years old. -[Peter] You can't even see the rings. [Brett] Those are the big ones, I mean just to put it in perspective, you can sit inside of trees And they get much bigger than this? [Brett] Yeah, they get way bigger. You couldn't move them -Look at your parking lot. It's its own world back here. This is Blue Ox Mills. This is Viviana Hollenbach. We're gonna go see Eric Hollenbach. Eric made the barn doors for our barn and they're just amazing community members and my way of saying thanks -Bring the goods? [Peter] So did Eric make this? [Viviana] That was made by in the world and it was outside of his bar. When he sold the bar he had a fight and he came back -[laughs] [Peter] Is that a true art-craft here, -It is an art. You really gotta know what you're doing. -For these big redwoods, right? -For the big ones -So how many are out there I don't think there's anybody. No one's doing it anymore? If it's on private property. -Eric would be the better one to answer. He knows more about this. -[Peter] How you doing, Eric? Doing well. Wow, your dog is huge. -You're Peter? Nice to meet you. -I'm gonna give Eric your mic. Yeah, give him my mic. Is that cool, Eric? [Eric] This ain't my first rodeo. [Peter] I didn't think so. You don't have that So Eric, what about timber-fellers? Are there many of those guys around still? No, not the old growth. No. We haven't cut any old growth There's still second growth fallers You know, they're no slouches but old growth, -So second growth fallers are cutting down Hundred feet. [Brett] This is this trolly they fixed up. -[Eric] I built it. -[Eric] Yeah. -[Eric] 1990. [Eric] Yeah. [Eric] So this cross section, This cross section was taken 70 feet off of the ground. The tree was 15 foot in diameter The base was 35 feet. You could park a bus on it [Peter] Wow. -It was one of the huge, huge trees Here's what I want to tell you about this. You see, the loggers have gotten a bad rap. Really bad rap. You think about it. The dudes and dudettes who came here all of a sudden First off, how you gonna get it on the ground? How you gonna do that? Okay, the wizard comes along Now how you gonna buck it in the lengths that you can move? Okay, the wizard helps again. Now how you gonna move it? All you got's oxen. You gotta figure out Okay, you get 'em to move, -Right. There have never been sawmills in all of history -Never. Those guys and gals had to solve to build this country. Once they did solve it the United States said, We need it now.&quot; And those guys and gals -So you think they don't get Correct. You know the railroad and they met the two trains at... I don't know, Prominance or I don't In 15 years the loggers who were not engineers, they build narrow gauge railroad and Northern California here in some of the toughest land there is they build enough railroad in 20 years to span the continental United States And they did it just out of hay hands using their brains and solving the problems as they came up. And that's what we are -[Brett] Eric. These little, what are they? -The pins? Every 25. [Peter] Every 25 years? So this one is how old? [Eric] 1,450. [Peter exhales in disbelief] It's like Like right here? [Eric] Here, I'll give you an idea. One for the bark. One, two, three, four, five, Right there the United States of America That's the signing of Whole lotta stuff happened [Peter] West Virginia, in the coal mines Here too? We had company towns that they couldn't get out of, you know? I mean they could Their money wouldn't work And they got paid in vouchers [Peter] Okay, interesting. -So what year are we talking? [Eric] This is a skid camp back here. See the sleds? -See the sleds these are built on? [Eric] So we're logging Only we're using misery whips, and we're working with trees that size. It can easy take us a year or more Easy. But eventually we're gonna get done they tore the wooden sidewalks out, and away they go to the next logging site, and set the whole thing up all over again. -Is the breed of your dog a redwood? [laughter] -This is Coop and he's a Great Pyrenees. -Okay. Wow, biggest dog I've ever seen. Coops like what, Yeah, that way you don't gotta Right, Coop's right here. -I'm too old to bend over. So they bring the work, let the workers work move 'em on? Yep. -And where were these workers from? -I think in this county Scandawhovians I think. -Okay, Chinese didn't get into it? [Peter] They were on the railroad? They did the railroad, yeah. Yeah, and they were This era and this logging was very, very technical. I mean it took a lot of skill and this was not laborers. -Right now it just works The come in with big cutters They still fall, they can't use those But now we got heavy equipment, and we can pull... yeah. Are guys getting paid pretty well Yeah, you can make a living. Yeah. You can buy a house and... Can make like a hundred grand -Probably. I'm not very good on... [strikes match] And fallers get paid by the timber that they fall So yeah. So is there a way to do it Are they doing it in a way these days -They do it a lot better. And they're allowing and leaving seed trees. -Yeah, we're doing good. [Eric] As far as the timber industry goes I think that we're... Bear in mind, I ain't no bright guy. Hell, I'm a high school dropout. But I watch and I observe things. And I think we are in in our entire 150 year history. [Peter] The timber industry? The timber industry right now today. -How is that? Because the big three Simpson, that wants to be called I'll die with them being Simpson, Um, Palco, is also something else now, and Sierra Pacific, the big three are all privately held corporations. That means that You see, the reason we cut so much we blamed the corporations. I think if you want to blame anybody, blame that little old lady goes to church every weekend, wouldn't say poop and expected her dividend check -Right, so they don't have to worry They don't have to worry about anything. They can make decisions based on [Eric] All of this that you see is old growth. And I already told you -So the old growth value Exactly. But that's why we work Because that's where this Viv and I started this business We just got done with for Emily Dickenson's house Now that's Emily Dickenson's house. You can't be putting metal gutter up. It has to match what the original was. Right now we're working on a big state job for State of California And that's the Bidwell Mansion. -And that's what we do. We're a very, very niche market. We're the only ones doing it and we're the only ones -That's the part that's just mind-blowing is that's a pedal-powered Still in operation. [Eric] That's from 1870. I like to say that we don't make -[Peter] You're working every day still? -77? Do you have tours here? -Yeah, you saw how the tours went. -So you guys want people to come out here? -Here's... -[excited] We are up with it. -Well this is... yeah. But we've got the QR code, -Yeah, cool. -And there's propaganda on the back. Gotta have that. [upbeat country music plays] [Peter] So we're almost up to Oregon here? Yeah, we're probably like This was a logging town primarily. The logging abruptly came to an end his wife Ladybird came and visited and she put a stop to it. She saw they were gonna cut and they created Redwood National Park. -This town is sort of hurting, huh? What happened to the town here? -Once the logging went away there was and it sort of withered and then it became a haven and mental health issues, -This is the California nobody thinks of. You got a cool old theater. -Yeah, there's... you know, -Right. [Brett] And this was Tribal-led. This is really exciting, He works with the Yurok Tribe. They took an old mill site and they restored it, and they restored Look at all those plants! I don't think I've ever seen Let's go see them. They're are all bulls. We gotta go check those bulls out. [Peter] Oh, they're huge. Do you know what that's all about? Is that like an alpha male thing -They're wrestling basically. Eventually they are -You see how these are all bulls? [Brett] Well right now this is the rut and all the cows are with big boy. He's either with a bull that... And they establish the pecking order So they're kind of like This is a bachelor group hanging out it'll be more fierce -This is real gentle. So the bull is out there And then these guys are gonna try One day some of them will try. There's even some bulls Get in there and try But you'll see when it's this time of year he'll be big, he'll be screaming it wouldn't be the dainty little, They'll be [knocks fists] You know, throwing down. [Peter] So those are all old growth? -Yeah, that's old growth redwood. -That's up to 1,500 years old -Some of it could be older. This is a really unique actually place because we're standing in a meadow Most of the time when you see the redwoods you're usually in it. It's like forest. But it's a diverse canopy. So that means there's really old trees and all the trees in that forest minus the ones here that are all of the trees in that forest, They were born in the shade primarily. They grew their life in the shade. It's very different than and it grows back or after a fire Then everything's in full sun. The wood looks nothing like it. If I showed you the redwood and I showed you the doesn't even look like the same wood. Doesn't look like the same species. -How do they grow without sun? -Slowly. [laughs] That's the magic! It's not without sun, -Like maybe 20 minutes a day Ray of light? And if you look at the grain You can see it's because they had a lot of rain a tree fell over next to it And when you see that tight grain or it got buried under the canopy and it had to wait another hundred years [Peter] There's just no way -You really can't. Oh, this is so rad. So guys, a lot of the content Most of these videos but there's a lot I learn along the way. There's a lot more to be shared. Would love you to be That's a group Link's down below. It's a real cool group of people in there. We all comment and would love to see you there. [Peter] When's the last time -It's probably been a week or two. Let's walk into a tree. -I try to go in -All right. -Been through fire, look. [Brett] Looks like this fire here and yet this tree is still alive. [Peter] Yeah. [Brett] But they can live for [Peter] You'll never be the same, man, Yeah. He's wondering if you're the guy -Yeah, now you're in the video. [laughter] -Where are you from? Nice, [German]. [German] -Five months in the States? [Peter] So tell us what it's been like. -It's been crazy. [man] We chose the perfect year Starting in Denver, So kind of the cowboy states first [Peter] Nice. -Yeah, we moved into a truck. And really enjoying it. -[Brett] I love when people come here-- 'Cause America's so huge and regions, and people. -The difference for example feels like two different countries. -Yeah. Yeah, it's like you would compare So yeah, the cultural differences [Brett] Guys, I'm having a little party. -You guys can park your camper. He's got a sweet spread. -Yeah, if you can have Can I give you my number 'cause we're -We have no signal out here. -Yeah, just come over. [Peter] Look at that beauty. That's so cool. I love seeing that when Europeans -Yeah. Not New York, Miami, LA, go home. You know, get into it. [Brett] It's raining You can see it has [Peter] So good for the soul in here, huh? [Brett] Yeah. I think I told you I learned in prison but I also learned the power of and as much as it was a prison, Oh. And those things seem to be but I ended up going to that was led by inmates and pretty soon Then they started talking about &quot;What are you talking about? They were talking about and we made drawings. We made mind maps. We wrote it all down. And we would do Talking about future goals And so everything you saw today those were all drawings -I made those drawings in 2014. And I literally pulled and I looked at those drawings, and some of them but I drew the farm and I said and my family, and I drew When you wouldn't believe that it was... Now it's easy to believe because It was not existing. Our life was in shambles. Our finances were like It was bad. I was in prison. My wife was struggling and here we're talking about and I'm just going through the motions but that's what they said, just keep... You have to be able and say it even if you You speak it into existence and so we did. We would practice in a prison. where we would say and everybody's gonna talk and you're saying things that sound like and my daughters. It's amazing. My businesses are thriving. My relationships are thriving. I don't know what to do with my money. It's just great.&quot; And we're in prison doing this stuff and I imagined and I imagined coming back here it was not all that rosey, and sometimes it seemed like but the other day that I had from prison and I looked at this drawing and it showed the pond. And there it was all beautiful When I came home but now it was built and I'm looking at that drawing, And I'm looking at the stick picture and I'm like there. And now my wife and I have a child. And I looked at another drawing and it was a stick picture of me You know, just like... And I looked at the date When I pulled it out This is what I dreamed up in prison. I dreamed this up in prison? And now I'm looking around It's unreal. [Brett playing guitar] Built this home with my own two hands help from my friends Food and shelter the best I can This right here 'Cause we still got butchers got a whole lotta folks If you ever need help Well around here That's how we do it in Humboldt Yeah we do it in Humboldt How we do it in Humboldt Well we got trees Clear blue water And you don't have to go look too far to find yourself a shootin' star You can be a weirdo You can be straight-laced 'Cause we got guts and we got pride We got what matters on the inside That's how we do it in Humboldt. Yeah we do it in Humboldt How we do it in Humboldt Well the sun was settin' on '68 It was the summer of love But war was draggin' Back to the land sounded great and that's when a redneck they had themselves a child That's how we do it in Humboldt Yeah we do it in Humboldt How we do it in Humboldt But it ain't all flowers You know the history Everywhere from Hoopa Wimatupee River It's the same old story One of them things So I do my best to show respect Tip my hat That's how we do it in Humboldt Yeah we do it in Humboldt How we do it in Humboldt Now if you wanna go right ahead but I got to warn ya we hold it down around here If you live in this country you can thank Humboldt County Fighting camp since the '80s we just a kept on growing' Yeah The only way to say it there ain't another place That's how we do it in Humboldt Yeah we do it in Humboldt How we do it in Humboldt How we do it in Humboldt How we do it in Humboldt Look who's here, Peter. -Now way! Wow. -Welcome. -Welcome. [laughter] [&quot;Humboldt&quot; by Brett McFarland plays] [music fades]