The man known to history as King George VI George on the 14th of December 1895 at York England. His father was Prince George, Duke of York, of Albert's birth was nearing the end of She was also the first Empress of India and which it was said the sun never set. Until shortly before Albert's birth, Prince succession to the throne. Once Victoria died, George's father, Albert, But it had been assumed until the early 1890s as Victoria's eldest male heir, would ascend However, Albert Victor died prematurely in father became second in line to the throne Thus, Albert was born in 1895 into a household Britain's immediate royal family with his However, Albert was not his father's heir. An older brother, Edward, had been born in Albert and Edward was third in line to the Consequently, from the moment he was born in line to the throne of Britain, though he something ever happen to displace his older As we shall see, something did occur. Albert's mother was Mary of Teck, a member extensive estates in the unified German Empire. Albert was her and George's second child Four more children would follow, Mary in 1897, 1905, though John suffered from severe epilepsy 13 years of age. Albert, who quickly became known to his family grandfather, was baptised at St Mary Magdalene he was born. Thereafter he was largely reared in a separate practice amongst the royal families of Europe This continued through his early childhood growing brood of siblings were chaperoned by tutors in the standard subjects of the those days still involved learning Latin and Greek and Roman literature. Albert's parents were distant figures, who to have been neglectful. This is too harsh an assessment and if they the conventions of the time. Albert's father was also a strict disciplinarian. It was perhaps on account of the traumatic from a stutter in his younger years, one which though as we will see, he largely triumphed king. When he was just 14 years old, Albert was on the Isle of Wight, a training school for to train as officer cadets. This followed a well-established tradition join the British Royal Navy when he was barely Albert, it must be said, was not a great student He came bottom of his class in the cadets' not predisposed to seafaring, having suffered His confidence was also low in his younger because of having been forced to learn to was left-handed. Although it seems nonsensical to the modern in the late nineteenth and early twentieth It was also while he was at Osborne that his With this his father ascended the throne as Edward became the Prince of Wales and heir Albert was now second in line to the throne, befall Edward for him to ever become king. Meanwhile, in the early 1910s he continued the Royal Naval College at Dartmouth after several training tours in 1912 and 1913, voyages in the Caribbean and off the seaboard of North In late 1913 he was finally posted to the Albert was still struggling to find his sea as diplomatic tensions were building in Europe For decades the continent's great powers regional power in Europe and for possession Asia. Russia and Britain, for instance, had been both had interests in countries like Afghanistan. The French and the Italians both had interests Since the 1890s Germany, which had emerged unification in 1871, began trying to build Armed alliances had even developed, with Britain, and Germany having a long-standing alliance Yet despite these rivalries, a major conflict As a result, when diplomatic tensions began Serbia in the Balkans in July 1914 many believed pass quickly. It did not, and in the final days of July of declarations of war. By early August nearly every country in Europe France and Russia went to war with Germany, The First World War had commenced. In the early stages of it, Albert was fighting In late August a medical evaluation determined when his ship made port in the Scottish city After a sufficient period of rest and convalescence The ship spent most of the war stationed in Britain north to Iceland and east towards While Britain was the pre-eminent naval power the Germans had spent an enormous amount of or so years leading up to the war. Accordingly there was an expectation that North Atlantic before long, but in the end with the carnage occurring in the trenches Therefore Albert spent much of late 1914, Collingwood undertaking gunnery drills and seeing little active engagement with the enemy. Albert was present for the largest naval clash The Battle of Jutland took place over the 1916 in the waters off the coast of western sides sought to score a tactical breakthrough war. The British had the greater number of ships, the Dreadnought battleships, the foremost nearly eighty destroyer class ships. The German armada was just under a hundred Over 60% of its vessels were torpedo boats scoring a number of hits before they ran out out of the clash victorious. In the ensuing naval melee Albert served as He performed well during the battle and was battle was a mixed affair overall. As the British and German fleets engaged with the Germans ultimately scored more hits, sinking also lost a disproportionately higher number twice as many mariners. As such, the Germans statistically won the one in which the Germans lost vital naval In its aftermath Berlin decided to prioritise major naval clash of this kind again during Albert would spend much of the war away from ill health. Early in 1917 he began suffering from a duodenal this operated on early that winter. When he returned to duty it was as part of was formed on the 1st of April 1918 as the nation anywhere in the world, a sign of how of military conflict in the course of the almost exclusively for reconnaissance missions. As a result of this decision, Albert became to hold a pilot's licence, while in October after being posted to France. The newly created RAF only had a limited role By the summer of 1918 the trajectory of the The entry of the United States into the conflict year had brought an insurmountable amount and the Ottomans. In the end, before victory was won on the Europe brought about the collapse of the German war to an end in November 1918. In the aftermath of the war Bertie returned He began studying at Cambridge University He was 23 years of age commencing his time post-war years when many freshman students who had spent their late teens and early twenties He began attending Trinity College there alongside his junior. Albert chose to study history primarily and of the Cambridge Modern History and an expert Revolution, though the most substantial scholar an economic historian and close colleague Keynesian economic theory. At Cambridge Louis Greig, who Albert had none was employed as Bertie's equerry or royal They developed a keen friendship over their later play together at the Championships at Albert's time at Cambridge, though, was increasingly drawn into becoming a working his time from 1920 onwards visiting industrial monarchy sought to establish closer ties to radical socialism was on the front foot across Because he was the second son of the king to decline dramatically, it was expected in be King of Britain. Therefore he was given something of a free relatively novel development for a monarch's Had he been born in the nineteenth century, one of Europe's royal households would most Nevertheless, when Albert began an affair in the royal establishment. This Australian 'it-girl' of the 1910s Lord Loughborough. Bertie met Sheila after his older brother Freda Dudley Ward. The relationship dragged on for almost a year instructed Bertie to leave this, quote, "already Albert was not happy with doing so, but obeyed His brother's unwillingness to abide by decade later would have striking consequences In the shorter term Albert was compensated by being invested with the title of Duke of significant peerages in British history and abandoned the title upon becoming king in Bertie's attentions were soon drawn elsewhere Shortly after ending his relationship with at an engagement. They had known each other as children, but By the time they met again Elizabeth was just in his mid-twenties, was evidently smitten. He proposed in 1921, but Elizabeth turned royal family and the public gaze that came and unable to express her true self in years Bertie, though, would not take no for an answer A second marriage proposal came following heir to the Viscount Lascelles in February She again said no, but further months of courtship despite her reservations about entering the on his third time of asking. The wedding was swiftly organised and the London on the 26th of April 1923. Thereafter they proceeded on their honeymoon, whooping cough in what she later called a Despite this inauspicious beginning, the marriage of many royal unions and Albert and Elizabeth It was in many ways the first modern royal While the honeymoon might have been interrupted a longer diplomatic tour to be undertaken It was typical for newlywed senior royals that in an age before television the people dominions could have an opportunity to see This commenced with a visit to Northern Ireland the Unionist community there of crown support Kingdom following the establishment of the during the early 1920s. A tour of Britain's colonies in Africa followed, as Aden in the south of the Arabian Peninsula, Egypt where the British Governor-General, on the streets of Cairo in November 1924. They returned to England for a time thereafter first child in 1926, a daughter named Elizabeth She was the first of their two children, with As soon as Elizabeth was born in 1926 and resumed their tour of Britain's overseas In 1927 they headed west across the Atlantic. They first visited Jamaica, where Albert notably Clark, an all-round sporting figure who had cricket. In 1924 Clark had become the first black athlete in London, a tournament which Albert had himself and mentor Louis Greig, the Scottish naval in the men's doubles event. Admittedly they were soundly beaten in the royal to have competed at the Championships, still an amateur event. Albert's decision to play alongside Clark an inclusive decision which embraced the wider It was probably simply more in line with Albert's play a game of tennis and wasn't considering Thereafter, he and Elizabeth proceeded onwards and Australia, before returning to Britain in the mid-1920s. While in Australia Albert oversaw the formal in the capital city, Canberra. He delivered a speech during this event, one This would not have been possible just a year Bertie's stutter had not retreated with had become a problem. When he had given the closing speech at the 1925, the ceremony had been an endurance test Duke struggling to deliver his lines. In its aftermath he determined to do something him since his youth. Thus, although the acclaimed film The King's him much later in the lead up to and opening in 1926 that Bertie first began working with turned speech and language therapist. Logue's methods were unusual by the standards by many in the medical community, but his relaxing of the throat muscles proved enormously Already when he had opened the Parliament was much improved and his voice did not falter He continued to work with Logue intermittently the time of his coronation, he honoured the Victorian Order, with promotion to the rank More broadly, Albert grew into himself in He was a changed man following his marriage own father and grandfather his parenting style a cold, distant presence in his daughters' The family originally lived at White Lodge to a more modest home in Piccadilly in 1926. During these years the Duke and Duchess became Bertie, for instance, founded the Industrial trade unionists and other leaders of industrial of the material existences of Britain's at a time when industrial communities in much striking deprivation. Bertie became known as 'the Foreman' to issues. He also established the Duke of York's Camps and public schools competed in a wide range These were a forerunner of the Duke of Edinburgh Albert took a great personal interest in them 1920s and throughout the 1930s except for In the late 1920s and early 1930s Albert and lives would continue on the same trajectory They would continue to play prominent roles Duchess of York, but the assumption was there eventually marry, become king, produce an his family. However, by the early 1930s it was imperative his fortieth year. It was worrying for both the king and the mid-1930s that Edward's attentions had actually who had come to England following her marriage businessman with extensive dealings in England. Edward and she had first met in 1932 and gradually By 1935 when King George sanctioned the Metropolitan Simpson's movements, the relationship between a matter of considerable concern to the royal Stanley Baldwin, when he entered government Although news of the affair had not become believed that if it did it would become a was a divorcee at a time when divorce still because Edward and she were romantically involved husband. The affair would soon change the course of Albert's father, King George V, died on to a lung condition exacerbated by lifelong and habits which were shared by his sons and He had been considerably ill since the mid-1920s, In his final months he had expressed his hopes with Simpson that they would not have children to succeed to the throne one day. That would come sooner rather than later. Although Edward immediately ascended to the death in January 1936, there were discussions government about what course should be followed As Edward did not have any children, Albert from their inception, as he was next in line It was clear that if Edward were forced to him, although there were rumours in the mid-to-late the possibility of one of Albert's two younger as possible candidates to succeed Edward if George, it was held at the time, was viewed his wife, Princess Marina of Greece and Denmark, in October 1935 and thus he would have a male However, there is no evidence to suggest that was ever seriously entertained by Baldwin's of the Abdication Crisis was for Albert to his throne. Edward's coronation was planned for the He would not remain as king for long enough The first months of his reign saw a growing with Wallis Simpson. Edward was seemingly determined to marry her divorce her second husband in advance of marrying She had informed friends that she expected was crowned as king. This would not be the case. Baldwin was utterly opposed to Edward's began liaising extensively with the wider reluctantly acclimatising himself to the reality of weeks, a development which he had no desire News of the affair eventually broke and it on the 2nd of December 1936. Thereafter, despite efforts by some senior to support Edward's right to marry whom parliament sided with Baldwin's approach. Pressured into making a swift decision, Edward with Simpson. He did so on the 11th of December, upon which of India, taking the regnal name George VI He was a reluctant king and later revealed her the news of the abdication and his assumption George rose to the position of king well. His style of rule was modest and undramatic, which had surrounded Edward as Prince of Wales Over the next fifteen or so years he would remit very well, rarely exceeding the role by the middle of the twentieth century, which and act in a ceremonial capacity. Nevertheless, this was still an important a period of extreme hardship from the autumn Moreover, George's modest and unassuming than life character of Winston Churchill as few years into his reign. Politically George was conservative in his to overseeing the gradual modernisation of George had come to power at a time when the Following the end of the First World War in of brutal revolutions and civil wars in regions But eventually in 1923 and 1924 the chaos growth and prosperity had followed. This was checked by the Wall Street Crash which followed. As renewed political turmoil arose across politics. In Central Europe, in particular, far-right to claim power in countries like Austria, led by Adolf Hitler seized power early in Conversely, Eastern Europe was dominated by Stalin. Those few countries which retained a democratic vying forces of fascism and communism and a bitter civil war had broken out in Spain forces. The task before Britain in the first years political environment, preventing the rise Oswald Mosley and excessive social unrest And George's task in acting as head of state Wallis's decision to undertake an unofficial one in which Edward clearly displayed his When George became king, Britain was at a German threat. It could begin rearming rapidly in order to to appease Hitler and the Nazis by granting of reversals of some of the more punitive had brought the First World War to an end. George was in many ways a favourer of appeasement, was Neville Chamberlain who succeeded Baldwin Chamberlain continued a policy of slow rearmament, the major power in Central Europe. Thus, few objections were raised when the into a Greater Germany, was undertaken by of the peace treaties which had brought the George supported Chamberlain in this approach, the constitutional remit of the monarchy by of the day and its decisions, regardless of to the monarch's own views. In one instance, and a particularly significant himself with Chamberlain's policy. Following the annexation of Austria in the attention to the Sudetenland, the German-speaking to this territory. Eventually a diplomatic conference was convened In the lead up to it George offered to write as one ex-serviceman to another to try to This was well-intended, though considerably When Chamberlain reached an agreement with the Sudetenland in return for a promise of its neighbours' territory, George sent him Palace immediately on his return to England congratulations on what he perceived to be The appearance of the monarch and the Prime together when Chamberlain arrived in England belief in the success of appeasement. But they would soon realise how misguided was. In the summer of 1939, despite the troubled Elizabeth headed across the Atlantic Ocean The tour of the US was undertaken on the invitation Occurring between the 7th and 12th of June, that a British monarch had ever visited the No British monarch had agreed to do so since colonies in North America, had declared its no monarch had visited the colonies since century. The tour took in much of the East Coast, with well as Mount Vernon, the home of George Washington The state visit was an important one in making public and was conceived of by Roosevelt as providing aid to Britain in the event of war It was a shrewd diplomatic move, one which in the Second World War when it initially Congress to provide financial and material the war. Close ties between Britain and the US would at appeasement were proven to have been in the US in the summer of 1939. No sooner had the dust settled on the Munich into a greater Germany, than Hitler and the turning their attentions towards further land The winter of 1938 was relatively calm, but torn up as German troops entered Czechoslovakia of Nazi Germany. Just days later the city of Memel on the Baltic with an aerial bombardment by the German foreign By now Britain and France had begun to accelerate for the inevitable conflict, but they were The Nazis were aware of this and consequently In the summer of 1939 their attentions turned territory which Germany had been forced to which brought the First World War to an end. Finally, in late August 1939 a false flag the aggressor in Eastern Europe. On the 1st of September 1939 Germany declared Two days later, in response to this aggression, The Second World War had commenced. As the King of Britain and Emperor of India 1939 to address the nation upon Britain's day. At 6pm that evening he delivered his speech, While Winston Churchill's addresses to the attention, George's on Britain's entry In it he stated, "In this grave hour, perhaps all my peoples, both at home and over seas, for each one of you as if I were able to cross For the second time in the lives of most of Over and over again we have tried to find ourselves and those who are now our enemies. But it has been in vain...If one and all be service or sacrifice it may demand, with God's George's maiden speech to the nation during of the stutter which had plagued him for much Although the award-winning film The King's story which are historically accurate, his faced and overcome with the assistance of George did periodically consult with Logue World War. Nevertheless, the film is inaccurate in suggesting in the period immediately before the war. With the onset of the war there was a growing Neville Chamberlain remained as Prime Minister Conservative Party. However, there was a rebellious faction amongst position was untenable given that he had championed Prime Minister in 1937. Matters came to a head in early May 1940 during Commons, which began concerning British efforts the country's occupation by the Nazis, but Chamberlain's management of the war. It became clear that he could not remain on as to who should succeed him, with some favouring critic of the Nazis and appeasement and others an ally of Chamberlain's who was not entirely George was initially in support of Halifax, support for Edward and opposition to George 1936. However, as events unfolded in the early summer the candidate who could command cross-party 1940 George asked Churchill to form a new The case was urgent, as the Germans had invaded towards France. A cross-party coalition government conceived Though he opposed Churchill's ascent as 10 Downing Street, the relationship between between any British monarch and Prime Minister The exigencies of the war ensured that they over their common interest in the Navy, Churchill during the First World War while George was Things grew from there. By the late autumn of 1940 their formal meetings king and prime minister every Tuesday, ones in which Churchill related the actions of felt the mood of the nation was based on his were taking place on an almost daily basis. We know of the considerable friendship which the war owing to George having recorded them It was not always smooth sailing, notably convince the king that he could not take part warships at the rear once the beachheads had was a successful one, in large part because and retiring man, that he had a considerable He made him feel useful. A sign of their affinity for one another would delivered the news of George's passing at aside his papers and stated, "Bad news, for several days. George's close relationship with Churchill the autumn of 1940. Following the Nazi invasion and rapid conquest of 1940 the Blitz, a bombing campaign of Britain blockade of Britain in the North Atlantic, The Blitz began on the 7th of September with peace terms without the Nazis having to launch London was the prime target from the beginning, to remain in the capital. It was a hazardous decision. Over 1,000 people alone were killed in the and on the 13th of September the king and bombs landed on Buckingham Palace. More broadly, the royal family underwent the British public during the war years and the and won George and Elizabeth the admiration on for eight long months through to May 1941. By the time it ended over 40,000 British civilians damaged or destroyed, the majority of the The worst of the Blitz and the naval blockade This was entirely owing to the general drift Between the summer of 1940 after the swift became the crucible of the war. The king needed to be visible during this, However, from the summer of 1941 onwards the Nazis abandoned their designs on forcing Britain eastwards to the Soviet Union, undertaking Thereafter the Eastern Front became the focus of the United States into the conflict in nations turned their attentions to gaining the Italians and the German expeditionary They finally emerged victorious in the spring opened in Italy by the Western Allies. Twelve months later, in the summer of 1944, landings and the invasion of France. From that point onwards, the course of the of Allied victory. In September 1940, in the aftermath of the from Dunkirk in northern France earlier that and the Battle of the North Atlantic, George which would be bestowed by the crown. The George Cross and the George Medal were Unlike the Victoria Cross, which had been great-grandmother, and other military honours, be awarded to anyone who was deemed to have be they civilians or soldiers. In the context of the Blitz, when ordinary and police, were effectively the front line awards were deemed necessary by the king. The George Cross would become the civilian military award of its kind. In announcing the creation of the new honour, to create, at once, a new mark of honour for I propose to give my name to this new distinction, will rank next to the Victoria Cross, and It was to be awarded for "acts of the greatest in circumstances of extreme danger." Over the course of the war George would personally civilians. Those who were honoured included the likes who had diffused over 200 bombs that had landed John Bridge was another medal of the Cross landed in urban centres across England. The George Medal was granted in similar cases, For instance, Margaret Irene Anderson, an Star, was awarded the Medal for her gallantry face of the Japanese onslaught in 1942. Back home, Charity Bick was awarded the George She had lied about her age at just 14 in order unit in 1939. During an air raid on West Bromwich by the messages on her bicycle to a nearby RAF control bomb that fell on the roof of a shop. In awarding these honours to individuals like galvanised public sentiment to continue the of late 1940 and early 1941 when Britain stood George and Elizabeth contributed to the war From 1940 onwards the king and the queen consort fronts in England and further afield. From the summer of 1940 onwards they regularly console the victims' relatives and to meet Often these duties were divided up, with George London's hospitals and those in the other One might look at these as merely symbolic of civilian endurance were what was needed plaudits for their very visible public presence the war. As the focus of the conflict shifted away began taking the offensive on several fronts, front lines in North Africa and the island the Low Countries and Italy in 1944 after By 1944 the war was entering its final stages from the east by the Soviets and from the George did not play an entirely silent role He made some contributions towards Allied that the Allies should forego opening a new into the Southern Front in Italy, a strategy of and sent along to the military chiefs of In the end, though, George saw the logic of the evening of the D-Day landings he delivered grim position Britain had been in four years more a supreme test has to be faced. This time, the challenge is not to fight to for the good cause." That eventual victory would take another eleven troops closed on central Berlin and British, fanned out across Germany, Hitler killed himself 1945. That VE or Victory in Europe Day, George and balconies of Buckingham Palace to celebrate six year long struggle. With victory in the war George's role shifted the rapid dismantling of its empire. Promises had been made during the war to many as the reward for helping Britain in its struggle In particular, the Cripps Mission of 1942 Congress leaders such as Mahatma Gandhi that have greater self-determination in the aftermath Britain in its hour of need. Now the debt fell due. In 1947 India was granted its independence the Muslim-majority areas in the north-west though the province of East Bengal would later George briefly remained as Emperor of India abolished entirely in 1948, though India and Commonwealth. Thus, in the second half of the 1940s, George transition from the Empire to Commonwealth, was pursuant from India's declaration of as head of state of that Commonwealth nation. George was cautiously in favour of this move, though the episode did see the Republic of The further dismantling of Britain's empire from 1957 onwards when the first wave of decolonisation By the mid-1960s Britain would relinquish regions like Kenya, Uganda, Nigeria and Rhodesia, of the Commonwealth. But George would not live to see this. His health was deteriorating already in the entering his fifties. Like his father before him, his lifelong chain as had the stresses of the war years. Moreover, by the late 1940s he was suffering Buerger's Disease, which leads to clotting also exacerbated by smoking. By 1949 matters were serious and a planned to be cancelled, while for a time it was feared legs amputated. Unsurprisingly, by this time his eldest daughter who was only 23 years of age, was carrying of the decade. Matters did not improve into the 1950s. In 1951 George had to have his left lung surgically He was limited in his physical movements from to remain active, insisting on accompanying to London Airport on the 31st of January 1952 It was the last time he would see his daughter George died in his sleep a week later on the at Sandringham where he was born. He was just 56 years of age. Owing to his premature death, Elizabeth succeeded of age and as she lived to be 96 years herself history. News of George's death was released immediately funeral were put in place. His body lay in state at Westminster from public could pay their respects to the wartime His funeral was held on the 15th like those Chapel at Windsor Castle. Afterwards his remains were interred in the until 1969, at which time George was reinterred His remains lie there today with those of lived until 2002, outliving her husband by the recently deceased Queen Elizabeth II and Philip. George VI led Britain through one of the most arguably the most significant in Britain's For much of 1940 and 1941 the country was Germany and the fascist threat. In that dark moment the country needed leadership. It is generally understood to have come from and Elizabeth as his queen consort who acted Blitz and the blockade of Britain by Germany. He rose extremely well to that occasion. Moreover, it came from a man who was never love life and to a certain extent his difficult his reign was a short one and Edward had to When he did become King of Britain, George king or a particularly forceful personality, at the helm of state which was fitting for Overcoming his own personal limitations, he the war, developed a close relationship with empire to commonwealth well in the aftermath Tragically, his physical decline ensured that years were spent in considerable pain. He should be remembered as a modest and humble, What do you think of King George VI? Was it a good thing that he became King of in 1936? Please let us know in the comment section, watching.