- In the Pacific Northwest, a slow motion collision of tectonic plates along the Cascadia subduction for over 320 years. And when that tension is released, the resulting earthquake is likely to be as large as a magnitude 9. That will be 45 times more powerful than California's most And the consequences defy imagination. (building rumbling) This megathrust earthquake is locals simply call it The Big One. And scientists estimate that of occurring within the next 50 years. In this episode, we'll learn will impact our cities and to prepare our infrastructure and learn some invaluable for when The Big One hits. (dramatic music) Subduction zone earthquakes and changes on the ocean floor, triggering tsunamis large coastal communities off the map. Remember the Fukushima In 2011, Japan was hit by similar to what we're anticipating and it unleashed a tsunami Chris Goldfinger is a geologist in Oregon who studies earthquakes and when the quake hit. I asked him to tell me - We went outside and just watched buildings moving, flagpoles whipping, and it just felt like the whole Yet you could feel this And as we watched it, though, we knew that Northeast to have anything bigger than about an 8.4. But when it hit three minutes we knew that was wrong. They were going, this is a nine. It has to be a nine. That's what it takes, three minutes - [Maiya] Because of a long Japan was so well prepared a relatively small number of buildings. But they just didn't expect the size of the tsunami that followed. (tsunami siren howling) Allison Pyrch, an engineer from Oregon, visited in the aftermath. - And it toppled most inundated huge amounts It killed 16,000 people. And we were there six to going and standing there And you can imagine where the water went 'cause you can see the water lines on the trees on the hills around it. You can see the pieces of So as an Oregonian, that's really hard, knowing that that's what our - And while the Tohoku quake in Japan was the costliest natural here on the West Coast we're nowhere near as for this kind of disaster. - If that had been Cascadia my building would have collapsed. There's no question about it. I might've gotten out, it might Everybody thought Cascadia was A size, meaning no earthquakes, because historically, that's what it was. It was dead silent. And then the first evidence was discovered in the early to mid eighties, realized that we just happened to be sitting in a quiet spot. - The Cascadia subduction that runs from Northern Over the last 10,000 years, that there have been 41 which averages out to The last one came in the year 1700. That's 321 years ago. Since then, tension has been slowly building as the Juan de Fuca plate and under the North American plate. The plate edge continues to and one day, it'll release that tension causing up to five minutes of an immense tsunami that could reach a hundred - If you were looking at a bird's eye view of Portland or Seattle, very soon after shaking started, bridges and other longer infrastructure are going to be warping and You would see unreinforced start to collapse. This is where 95% of Oregon is brought in and stored. These tanks will deform, they'll spill. Any type of spark or could also start a fire. The Cascadia subduction one of the worst disasters - [Maiya] Officials in Portland, Oregon created this animation one of the busiest bridges in And it's not pretty. (tense music) In the aftermath of the quake, survivors along the coastline will have as little as before the massive tsunami hits. - In a place like Seaside, is get from here up to the It's a very straight It's a very doable evacuation, because there's no way to get there without crossing one of these bridges. The bridges were built so we've got no retrofitting at all. If these bridges go down, people trying to evacuate They're gonna have to swim the river and then continue evacuating up the hill. - [Maiya] To get an idea of just how risky this situation is, Chris oversee Seaside in his acrobatic plane. (engine sputters) - As we're flying over Seaside, we can see how low elevation the town is. Ground doesn't really rise much until you get well on the Pretty much everything on is pretty likely to be inundated. (ominous music) I mean, I came home from Japan but at the same time, I look and I can see just visually that yeah, we are a thousand years behind and this is not gonna be easy to catch up. - But officials in the Portland is currently reviewing options to build a new Burnside Bridge to serve as a lifeline after the quake. And all new structures are being built up to earthquake standards. Still, the vast majority are not ready for earthquakes and aren't even bolted Michael Wieber is a contractor specializing in retrofitting homes to make them more likely - So this house was built in 1911. There really wasn't a This house is sitting on the foundation through the grace of gravity. We're going to rectify that. We're going to collect and get them into the foundation to prevent the house from So the vast majority underneath the house. So in this case, the basement. (soft guitar music) All right, so this is that's designed for earthquake loads, and it's going to install like this to get those loads from this beam up here into the sill plate down here. And then we'll install this side plate and we'll continue that load (drill whirring) - The most important the connection from and to the foundation. Some homes are simple to retrofit and it's possible to do it yourself, but others are very complicated, so it's worth having a if you live in an earthquake-prone area. And there's a lot you can do like making sure tall furniture, appliances, and even are securely attached to the wall, so they don't fall on Mark Ginsburg is a Portland NET or neighborhood emergency team leader and has been preparing for Despite living and breathing Mark, surprisingly doesn't by the inevitable earthquake. - It's not the thing because I know that I can't control it. I understand where I live and I understand that But I also know that if I and if I do trainings, this year I redid my first Those are the parts that I There's your house and there's the knowledge, and there's a plan. But I think having the or a household need to just be independent for a little while is really crucial. - Here are Mark's top to keep in your home or garage when preparing for The Big One. - Shelf stable food, water, Good fire extinguishers, Two bucket toilet. Toilet seat, clips on the bucket. Toilet paper. Saw dust for your poop. For in one gas shutoff tool. Thank you. Water shutoff in the If you turn off your gas, you leave it off and let - Shutting off your gas can If you smell gas in your Mark suggests grabbing and simply turning the It's easy to feel when thinking about as large as The Big One, but I think we could all take - The time to figure out what to do is not after the earthquake, but to know in advance, what should we do? - You don't have to join although it's great if you do, but just taking small steps like picking up a gallon of water or a few extra cans of can go a long way. - People will want to help and will step up to help to That's what everything shows will happen and what has happened in the past and we can expect that's should we need it in Portland. - And for a more detailed ahead of time for an earthquake or for any other disaster for that matter, check out our episode on and pack a go-bag. Thanks for tuning into and as always, don't forget so you never miss an episode. See you guys next time. (soft music)