- You're 4 years old, right? - Yeah. - Four years old and how - Umh, for like a week. (audience laughing and cheering) - A week. - Wow, so recently. - So anytime I get interviewed, anytime we see fans out in public, or anytime I'm just hanging I always get asked some (fun upbeat music) (loud thump) - [Dave] What are you guys doing in here? - Playing our hopscotch that I made. - [Dave] You made hop scotch? - This is Sonic the Hedgehog hop scotch. - [Dave] So, I got a question for you. - Okay. - [Dave] When did you start singing? (upbeat music) I talk with my mouth full, uh hu But I couldn't - What's the first time - I don't have very many options 'cause I can't remember so much. - You can't remember? Is it too long ago? - Yeah. - So, I've actually answered that question a number of different ways based on how different memories have come back to me, but in this video I want and finally figure out old family footage that I can (upbeat jazzy music) - Alright, what is your very - Hmm, I feel like she's It would be when she was super At church, do you remember? So, the whole congregation opening song closing song, and as soon as the organ would rev up and get going she would belt it out. (church hymnal music) - I remember that one time we were sitting in our Pro apartment and hitting the notes and then singing them, and I looked at you and said (singing with piano note) (&quot;In Summer&quot; by Josh Gad) Summer Summer - Ever since Claire was born from the hospital I would every single night, the same lullaby, and this lullaby is It's a song that my her mom used to sing to her, it's an old song from the early 1900's. I would sing it to her every single night. (&quot;Georgia Lullaby&quot; by The - [Ashley] Come here, come here. - [Ashley] Go, go, go, go. (&quot;Georgia Lullaby&quot; by The The sandman's coming Your daddy's humming a Georgia lullaby - [Ashley] Okay Claire, can you sing Let It-- Go Let it-- Go Can't hold it back any-- More - The true moment for me was when we were living in San Jose, California. One night, Ashley was out running errands and I was putting Claire to bed and I sang her the song and and I just remember thinking And so I call up Ashley on the phone, she was out running errands, I was like, this girl can sing. - [Ashley] Hi. - Hi June. You took a nap? Did you have a good nap? - What's going on here? - What's happening it's a camera. - She loved the little - [Ashley] Okay you feel calmer now. Every job is important. We all help in different ways - So when we got back from San Jose I remember we were back and I would play my guitar and Claire would -- So she wasn't quite two because-- - Yeah, I would sing and and she would hold me Jai guru deva om Nothing's gonna change my world Nothing's gonna change my world Nothing's gonna change the world Stuck all winter Stuck all winter - Whoa! - [Ashley] Beautiful singing. - I remember whenever we would go anywhere and we would turn on the radio and she would like the song. She would just hold up her little finger and be like what's this? - What's this? - What's this? - 'Cause she wanted to and she wanted to know who sang it. - Cool kid, cool kids! I wish that I could 'Cause all the cool I wish that I could Like the cool kids - I'm doing it, I'm doing it. Radioactive, radioactive Whoa, oh, oh Radioactive, radioactive Love tight where we are Maybe we found love right where - So, like most little girls and she especially loved So you still remember - Uh yeah, I love &quot;The Ariel's my favorite princess. - She's still your favorite princess? - Claire would sing that song from &quot;The Little Mermaid&quot; everywhere. Everywhere she went. - Everywhere. What's that word again Street Up where they walk Up where they run Up where they stay all day in the sun Wanderin' free I got gadgets and gizmos aplenty I've got whozits and whatzits galore You want thingamabobs I got twenty But who cares No big deal I want more I want to be where the people are Wish I could be Part of that world (claps) - I thought it was cute. Ashley thought it was cute. Grandma and Grandpa thought it was cute. We all thought it was adorable, but I didn't think much of it because I'm keenly aware of this solid fact, and that is that cuteness Meaning that if the kid is your relative then you think it's cute. - A question that's is my baby really as cute as I think? - We think she is actually the People have said that to us. - You know they say that to every baby. - Actually, they were telling the truth. - [Male Announcer] What is it that makes parents so delusional? - I don't know. We just feel that she - [Male Announcer] So unabashedly biased. - Yeah, I know what's cute, what's ugly. That's cute. - You know what I'm talking about. (upbeat funky music) - [Dave] Alright, you ready? - This is going to be so random. I say, hey, were not getting oil changed we're just making a video. So random. - You're not wrong Claire. This is the thing we want I want to show them where it happened. This is a Jiffy Lube. This is where the light bulb went on. It wasn't this Jiffy Lube So as I stand up to the counter to pay with a nice gentleman like this I turn around, Claire is to &quot;The Little Mermaid&quot; song. Putting her arms out, she's as I look back all these people in the waiting room were laughing and there's this girl who and she starts filming And she's just laughing, this is amazing. That girl's out there somewhere and she's got this video on her phone. I wish I could find her and I So as I'm sitting there, her performance with her cellphone. It's like the light and my wind was just like boosh. (upbeat funky music) Hoping that you'll understand Well baby now Take me into your loving arms - I already had a YouTube channel. I was already uploading videos. So, I had everything I needed. I had a microphone, a laptop, a preamp, chords, lots more chords, a camera, lens. I had everything I needed I just needed to do it with Claire, and so in January 2016 we Betcha on land They understand Bet they don't reprimand Bright young women Sick o' swimmin' Ready to stand - And an Oscar may be in the future for one little girl in Utah. - Listen to her single Little Want Thingamabobs I got twenty - I was at my parents' and so I went to my parents just to hang because you were going to be gone anyways. - I was working at Amazon at the time, and we had this big conference down in Los Angles called NAMM. All the musical instrument vendors gather for meetings and all sorts of crazy stuff. So, I was in meetings all day long. My phone was just blowing up. I had family calling me, I - Probably mostly me. - Ashley calling me. - Zooey Deschanel wrote about us. - I had like Nicki Minaj - That's crazy. - My friends, were tweeting me like, dude Nicki Minaj just tweeted your video, Ashton Kutcher just tweeted your video-- - Oh yeah, Ashton Kutcher. - I had friends that people reaching out like hey of you and your daughter but one of the calls we got was from a show called &quot;Little Big Shots&quot;. If you've never seen this show, it's got Steve Harvey, and they have them perform on stage. It's a really cool show. - &quot;Little Big Shots&quot; called and they want her to do an interview and and my thinking is, oh There's no way. So, Claire was three. Just barely three like super little tiny, and I didn't even, I knew but looking back now I look at it and I'm like oh my gosh she was a baby. - Where are we right now? We're in-- - California! - In California. - Because we need a very important job. - We have a very important job. What is it? - It's the show! Sparkles right here. - [Ashley] Oh. - Take a picture of the jewels. - [Ashley] Okay. Oh wow, I love those jewels. - Me too, I love this It's so poofy and dressy and beautiful. - [Ashley] It is. - I never got my hair trimmed. - Oh really never? - No. - Wow, well I'm going to (upbeat funky music) - Do you remember how we We were sitting there, I so people aren't, no a little girl singing, but for us we were just sitting there that she would feel confident and do good. - And love it and not be scared. - And just have fun doing it. So we were just sitting just like squirming there - 'Cause she's our baby. Look at this stuff Isn't it neat Wouldn't you think my Wouldn't you think I'm the girl The girl who has everything Look at this trove Treasures untold How many wonders can one cavern hold Lookin' around here you'd think Sure, she's got everything I've got gadgets and gizmos aplenty I've got whozits and whatzits galore Do you want thingamabobs I've got twenty But who cares No big deal I want more I want to be where the people are I want to see Want to see 'em dancin' Walking around on those Whad'ya call 'em Oh, feet Flippin' your fins Legs are required for jumpin', dancin' Strollin' along on those What's that word again Street When's it my turn Wouldn't I love Love to explore that shore up above Out of the sea Wish I could be Part of that world (applause) - Give it up for Claire! - And ah man, when she was finsished-- - So, so, proud. - I was just so proud of her. - So proud of her. She did so well. - That was Claire's very - Yeah. - That was just standing on Hey, how do you feel Claire? - Nice and happy. - [Dave] Nice and happy. You did it sweetheart, give me five. We're done. - I'll jump to you. Jump! - Wow, did you have fun in California? - Yeah. - Did you have a blast? - I'm about to kiss your nose. - [Ashley] Give daddy a - And that night how we and we got some ice cream. We just kind of went back to the hotel. Oh man it just felt so good - So precious! - Whoa! This world is so beautiful. Dad why don't we go in the rides? - So from there, I mean - And since then we've gone - Six, six times? You're gonna see it's our destiny - She's done shows all over She's been on &quot;The Voice&quot;. We've had a blast just singing. She just loves to sing. She's just in her room playing or drawing or whatever she just does it singing. When she's just trying we'll both be down here trying to watch Netflix or a movie. - Belting it out. Just singing. singing her heart out all - So we do get the question all the time, when is Carson going And what is Carson interested in? So, the most important thing to us in this journey is that our kids, we can help them develop talents in what they are most interested in and never forcing them to do things they are uncomfortable with or things that maybe they and so she's had these opportunities so we've just rolled with as she could possibly want to do and she's still asks to do more. Carson on the other hand, such a good voice and it's Like a diamond in the sky Twinkle twinkle little star (Carson indistinct singing) (Carson indistinct singing) - And it's so fun to listen to him sing. He loves to sing at home. - He's really musical. I mean his pitches are-- - He's got rhythm. Whoa oh (stomping) - Right now he's not and so that's it. Until he is ready, and maybe and that's totally fine. He loves to play soccer. He's super artistic. So whatever he wants to do but right now as far as things he isn't totally interested all - You see a little more than Carson right now but it'll get there. I think some day when he gets, he learns that it's really fun to perform you'll start seeing a lot - He's really talented There's a lot. There's obviously a ton that isn't shown on the channel and Carson is a really fun little kid. - So that's when Claire started singing. We'll see you guys all next week. The brightest colors fill my head I think of what the world could be A vision of the one I see A million dreams is A million dreams for the