The consumer electronics And so it's not a matter of It's a matter of starting In light of supply chain Covid-19 pandemic, a push to America returned. BlackBerry stock peaked at Now it's sitting pretty at January 2022 marked the end 85% of Americans have a percentage has grown every But some think the dumb well. I'm never going back to a Made in China. It's a common phrase we see From clothes to electronics, And while that's today's been the case. The United leader in manufacturing, the U.S. in manufacturing growth ever since, going in 2021. With the U.S. now ranking global manufacturing However, in light of supply the Covid 19 pandemic, a home to America returned. Stamping products &quot;Made in Made in the U.S.A. The manufacturing. While some industries like and the battery market are factories across the U.S., the same effort to do that. CNBC wanted to find out why smart phones in America. We visited one company, phone in the U.S. to explore what it would made in the States. The history of the U.S. dates back phones even existed. The whole concept of was very strong. Through fundamentally gave '60s and '70s, and in that China expanded, a lot of expanded. Today, the supply chain for lives outside of the U.S. and big tech companies are Apple and Alphabet hire and abroad to oversee Prior to Covid, it was very like myself, maybe 10, 20, the factory to support that learning and finding in the right place at the In fact, in 2019, Apple was customer, buying 50 San Francisco to Shanghai million in annual revenue This is one reason founded Instrumental. The startup aims to reduce process by making it easier remotely. I started instrumental with felt like data provided an to solve these problems And maybe I wouldn't have China every several weeks find these issues and try the right time. As new technologies like it easier to manufacture incentive for companies to Apple has moved some iPhone Covid lockdowns in China Washington and Beijing. One estimate predicts one made in India by 2025. So why not move some as well? Back in 2012, point. The consumer electronics And so it's not a matter of It's a matter of starting Then in 2017, he followed up issue of highly skilled There's a confusion about least give you my opinion. The popular conception is because of low labor cost. I'm not sure what part of truth is China stopped country many years ago, and come to China from a supply The reason is because of of skill in one location With a population of 1.4 most undergrads getting degrees globally, but in difference in the cost of federal minimum wage is And while China has no set the city of Zhengzhou, iPhone plant is located, 19.6 Yuan or less than $3. We don't know exactly how making, but in the early was much better than they fields. Now, as the demand talent has, because they've their wages have gone up And many of the workers who moving into what we would we would call middle class Foxconn did not respond to a Apple did not provide a wages either. I would say that there is concern for building here But I do agree with what there is also an expertise attractive. There is a lot supply chain for where all from, to build such a it a very appealing place Apple said in a statement to products are designed and all include components For example, iPhone glass lasers that enable Face ID too.&quot; It also said, &quot;Just billion in new investments including our work with across all 50 states.&quot; In purchased Motorola for A year later, it opened the manufacturing plant in Fort make the Moto X. The factory was part of American-made low cost But about a year after it citing high domestic consumer demand. Google sold Motorola to multibillion-dollar loss. Some experts say, Motorola's failure shows that the cost skill in the U.S. is why manufacturing in the cost-effective. Alan Yeung, and author of the book, this point during a visit with then chairman of Foxconn is Apple's largest largest electronic Chairman Gou, Terry made it The core skills and the phones, manufacturing Asia. And for it to come difficult, though not take a while. It won't be That's the reality. However, Purism is one been able to do what many So this is actually where manufacturing for the We're going to do the printed circuit board company in 2014 doing States of America. Purism well as software. So we do laptops, mini PCs the same operating system Purism offers a range of including the Librem 5 $2,000. It's the only with the Made in U.S.A The FTC actually has a very Made in U.S.A is or The Librem 5 U.S.A. is manufactured in the We actually have a label there Made in U.S.A actually showcasing that we FTC definition of Made in for a full phone. The phone is assembled here California factory. Purism sources all U.S.A. phone domestically, chassis and the Wi-Fi card. Overall, what we're looking are manufactured at our specific components are Those can come from outside As one example, our NXP CPU Korea and then we import we use it on our board that But the company also sells mass produced in China. For $1,300, it's $700 American-made model. Weaver says he hopes to the company makes in the For us, obviously the U.S. is the one we're expanding spill over to doing other States as well, like our potentially even servers. There is also a potential manufacturing. Weaver said the company is this is possible with the U.S. made model. Actual physical labor costs China. We're able to sell don't have to cram our So that allows us to pay care of the employees and everything else. Purism initially started initiative. Now the company thousands of phones. Overall, we're a We've seen growth, triple we started. Our margins are continue to pay people us to scale up the Purism said almost one third the American made Librem 5 But Weaver said labor company. The key piece that you're actually not a lot of into producing a phone. It's more mechanical labor, And so machine versus manufacturing on the same versus a machine in China. So in the end, you're jobs that can be that fulfillment, but machine equal. But do Americans want these Any time we post a job at So from line operators to We're talking well over $10 of those positions. However, not everyone agrees successful in the States. Baizhu Chen, a professor at Business, says these jobs I don't see in the U.S. there's rows and rows of the desk, assemble the I don't see that happening. These type of jobs are not I'm talking about the manufacturing job. There's actually lots of being made here in the assembly jobs. They are engineering jobs. I definitely think there you can build highly the U.S., it's usually at It's not a million a day. Smaller companies are often So what will it take to the U.S.? Not only you will need to infrastructure, you also made nearby. Somewhere in the ecosystem, America doesn't have this have not been manufacturing supply chain doesn't exist They are in Asia, in China, countries. So to rebuild and take cost. Very expensive. It doesn't make any sense. But in light of recent government to transform the ecosystem, the U.S. is taking steps to restore In August 2022, President Science Act. The bipartisan U.S. based companies to $39 billion in America finally is making and local level to level Beforehand, it was just regulations and red tape Taxes were high and cost is I would say it would be very complex electronic device U.S. It absolutely can be here in the U.S., but it's and have the right that product. In 2017, the White House open a massive LCD screen Wisconsin. I led the project Flying invest up to $10 billion the state of Wisconsin. But Foxconn has massively promise. In 2021, the less than 1,500 of the and cut its investments to Foxconn bit off more than it particular stage of their everything from the environmental side, the facilities, and then even kind of people needed to do That was just not reality, promised. Two key elements that were the market condition climate. In our case, for prices drop and got cut by And if you ask still build the project or product now sold 50% off, and really take a long, do that. But if the world's largest couldn't succeed in and if Motorola failed at after only a year, it seems see any other attempts to U.S. any time soon. I can't comment on whether manufacture iPhone in the when the clients of Foxconn manufacturing a particular States, the company will be As to why it's necessary to Purism's president Kyle to security concerns and At Purism, we think data is a radioactive substance of it as humanly possible. Manufacturing things in the avoids risks from some other something tampering with to the supply chain is an someone to inject chain and tamper with If China continues to be a more of the U.S. companies and the going to move manufacturing already seeing that happen. But Professor Chen says it's We eat strawberry, we eat tomatoes, we don't grow It's the same thing. We can consume iPhone or manufacturing the smart These phones can be China, in different other Regardless of where it manufacturing phones is Other companies, they &quot;It's just too hard to do in almost a talking point as into how it would be able It can clearly get done, opportunity and it's just to offshore those jobs and other countries. There is a reason why those product in China. By combining the labor cost productivity, China is place to produce. Whether a phone or TV or the U.S., it's going to be the supply chain, including decide. But ultimately it's is going to decide. And the customer is going to or go online and make the decision with their credit So while yes, you can find the relics on eBay, we're models to-- Flip phones are hot right Flip phone! While it might seem like the past, they've actually the world and still make up actively being used. And yes, this is in large affordability in developing becoming a movement among So it's been an official The crappy dumb phone. And I'm never going back to We're going to be talking Today, we're going to talk It's been three years since I had been thinking about flip phone for a while, but adopted one. My iPhone much, I just, I decided to Despite this, smart phones Even in developing nations widely used, smart phone Developing countries are places where Nokia has not with both feature phones very, very strong presence. Worldwide, the feature phone decrease by about 10% over largely attributed to the switch to smart generations refusing to use phasing out as there is a ownership among those 65 But the amount of dumb people in Western countries CNBC wanted to explore what about and see if it can smart phone industry. Within the dumb phone essentially two avenues One being a classic flip or was commonly used in the Motorola or Nokia. Two being a modern like Light or Punkt. whose phones are in a way And these brands are also feature phones, which is additions, like a hotspot How do you feel about the Well, we're trying to do to create a dumb phone, but phone, a premium, minimal isn't inherently about consciously choosing aspects of technology add tempting me with all sorts smart phone. In Europe, for instance, you Here in Switzerland and a dumb phone or a digital it the weekend phone. One of the biggest reasons to a dumb or minimalist smart phones effects on We all know that what people they only convey the best others falsely believe they comparison, which in turn self esteem and well-being. The U.S. Surgeon General is too young to be on taking the initiative and feature phone incapable of use. It's definitely a trend that have been very occupied for a while, and a lot of back and get a bit more their life. I take my smart phone with So I decided to jump on the test out a couple different This is the Punkt. NP02 phone. It's my first from Switzerland in this It has a T9 layout which before for typing. So we'll A study found that on their phones for about about four hours a day. That was in 2021. Just for reference, my own two and a half to three less than average. The vast majority of my Now I'm going to swap out the Punkt. phone. The Punkt phone retails for about $380 light blue. You can call, you can SMS. You can call and message make it use as a hotspot There are other purposefully Phone, which allows for a guess, on what you can do. Retailing for about $300, more built in tools. We kind of set these things that have a real So something like an alarm calculator or even, you tool. These things have case. There's nothing about Punkt that is against technology. It's about intentional Right now I'm actually somebody who I've been we've never actually called set up our plans for just so inefficient on a going the old fashioned Hello. Hi. So far, I actually haven't It's actually kind of nice the uncertainty of things And I'm still able to text I'm a little bit more about to have about an hour office in Englewood Cliffs so I'm not going to be able which I usually do the Instead, I'll have to, maybe that's for the best, Sit with my thoughts a One sort of weird issue directions. The phone does directional indicator on directions before I go for It's no problem, like, I have that memorized. But used to going, I have to then just try to remember little bit of a challenge. Okay, so I did have to I was trying to meet my couldn't find it. Got a swapped my SIM just to pull Now I've got my hands on going to swap my SIM and So the Light Phone has an makes it a little bit everything on it is a of the type of screen it a lot. One of the tools Light Phone II, which I nice, is voice-to-text and You have to go a little very convenient. This is the home screen and your computer to their additional tools past the So I went in and added notes, podcasting. The directional tool I expected to have to put in can actually just type in most of something and it'll there. The Light Phone to upload basically MP3's. You're using it as an MP3 download music, you can't So I'm actually going to time and I want to say like So I mean, it is working. It's not like the best am listening to music, so While I don't really use my with, compared to most that a dumb phone really And honestly, one of the not being able to listen to easily using something like On average, over half of received their first smart percentage has continued to generation to entirely grow smart phones. And about said they feel addicted to can have adverse effects on This is why parents should device habits. It's not about prohibiting from being used, maybe like to take some regular A recent study found that phone-based social media use emotional distress. But I think you can see it populations. They're tired They don't know what is and they're trying to make And from 2019 to 2022, over were sold globally. I think this trend, starting very easily move, I would and Australia, and then Eastern Europe and even This trend is largely a concerns and in part why Punkt. said its devices are audiences, despite having designs. A study connecting of social media from 2008 year olds who reported episode increased by 83%. So I wanted to change my like get into a slower the fast pace of the We kind of had this break from smart phones and time to time would yield a positive experience for And brands like Light and that are geared toward success and increasing From 2021, for example, to did grow 50% year over You know, we have five fold As for this way, so, but millions, we are in the But I think this Light and brands that are new, I bigger impact, particularly because it's not smart phone. In 2021, just 61% of using smart phones, while feature phone. The biggest question that I they age out or will they And as with most technology, to adopt smart phones. In 2012, when smart phones steam, only 13% of those 65 compared to 66% of 18 to 29 What's assumed is that using feature phones used to and have no need And just 45% of them said I do believe we'll see phones even when folks like If nothing else, the touch the screen of a older is tough. Your eyes go and directly phone without having some Older generations are and still doing that. But I think that's also on top of that innovation. So they can still function Older generations are dumb phones. And despite younger generations, 85% of phone. And that percentage their inception. But some industry will grow as well. In North America, the market much flatlined over the I could see it getting up five years, if nothing public health concerns The problem is that humanity fast evolving software. Children are not yet ready through a very important are not yet prepared to are currently available on even the social media I think in the next five warnings about the dangers collectively that the able to manage on its own, some restrictions. And that alone, I think, parents not giving kids phones into the future. There's a reason why there the dumb phone subreddit. Like, that's not a small, I compare it to like Android iPhone, but it's a trend lot of people are really This is actually one of the for my mental health stimulation, I've created ideas and to touch in with of feel like what's going the noise. The smart phone market in countries has grown phone market was valued at and is expected to reach And the Middle East, Africa of feature phone sales in But these countries are about the mental health phone usage. A survey countries found that 63% of mobile phones were having a But despite this, mental reason people in developing dumb phones -- price is. That has very little to do watching their kids. It has everything to do the reliability. In that same 11-country said that mobile phones society. A lot of folks in areas like entire business on a smart And therefore, I do see the country like India. And the makers of Nokia selling millions of feature However, the U.S. is one of noticed growth in feature While feature phones do cellphones actively being sales are heavily in favor Of the roughly 200 million India in 2022, only about phones. And while feature developing nations, the following elsewhere in could see some growth as associated with social While my experience wasn't use my phone that much to something that I decided remains to be seen whether trend in the U.S. For much of the mid to Motion's BlackBerry was the brand in the U.S., and it about 43% of smart phone Even after touchscreen became mainstream, a strong user base for RIM is now worth about $66 That's with a B. Some couldn't imagine using Others wanted the advanced BlackBerry phones offered. Something that BlackBerry is hacked and having security is near and dear to our And the company's stock 2008. Now it's sitting January 2022 marked the end A moment of silence for dear Starting today, the once a go-to for millions, Barack Obama, will no After over two decades of communication devices, it cybersecurity as its sole Because they are trying to tremendous turnaround for a make smart phones. So they playing it cautious, on the their growth potential as But the margin is going up switch will flip. So we are spending. Overall, it was a tough the way we're pivoting. So what made this iconic rise and catastrophic fall now? BlackBerry was founded in Research in Motion. Its first product was information to be displayed While Budgie did have some used by General Motors, it It made several other DigiSync, a device used in won an Academy Award for But it wasn't until it of the first wireless receive data, when Research pick up steam, it used an to send and receive groundwork for what would BlackBerry. The earliest phones we all know began in It could send and receive for use of a simplified It was really interesting to these interactive pagers to handsets. BlackBerry's popularity At the time, the brand and simply a cultural CrackBerry by many. The phones were seen as glimpses of how smart over our lives. It was a really exciting I mean, we as a company had That's Sarah Tatsis, who was still known as Research President Obama was the and was adamant about in office. But I'm still clinging to my They're going to pry it out In 2007, it was the most surpassing Royal Bank, about two years. In 2010, it acquired an QNX. While BlackBerry was smart phones at the time, to be a massively important I was very excited to be BlackBerry in the next also as QNX was now on a Charles Eagan joined because of its acquisition QNX. BlackBerry's fiscal nearly $20 billion in that being from hardware. Even Kim Kardashian was an using the phones until 2016 devastatingly died. BlackBerry. It's my heart I'll never get rid of it. And she wasn't alone with Well past its prime era, switching over to a smart phone, seeing undesirable. But in 2007, And we are calling it Today, today, Apple is going BlackBerry began making tech in 2008. Its first fully touchscreen had major hardware issues. It quickly returned to its before again trying out a the Z10 in 2013. See, at this point it was up with touchscreen smart were becoming more and more But device sales were In 2011, it sold 50 million But just two years later, Z10, that number plunged to phones. And in the years to fall rapidly and its descent. I think we saw as we were BlackBerry 10 launch and Apple and Android were would say around that the the company realized make some significant BlackBerry desperately tried the market with products. In the same time period it iPhones, BlackBerry devices. It made an effort by switching to a QNX acquired the year prior, In 2012. Longtime co-CEO and founder co-CEO Jim Balsillie, By 2013, 4,500 jobs were a CEO with a desire to turn around. When I came in we're losing off a lot of stuff, and we crazy. We're talking quarter. And so I have to And that was kind of the more of a survival state at You know, the fact that John pivot to software. I remember the day he and I thought, okay, here's John Chen brings strong as someone who has already turnarounds historically. Initially, Chen hoped to turning them into a stable But after a few years, we get the volume up; it's a The moment had came and And so we made that pivotal company and focused on things of that sort. See, this pivotal shift Chen dependent on a few key had made, one of which The operating system that BlackBerry devices. And this was viewed as one BlackBerry needed for its One thing we did was we took used to be designed for the phones and moved that back The others being the $1.4 Cylance, an antivirus million acquisition of good management software BlackBerry more swiftly hardware to software. QNX had previously been software company dedicated And the fact we supported after we announced the exit designing our own smart And now over the last transitioned into the foundational IoT software So once BlackBerry decided of the company in 2016, became central to its Currently, BlackBerry has cybersecurity business unit These are two fast growing I would like to think of can actually grow if they The main focus within the automotive, and the features the QNX operating the de facto standard in So the QNX technology that before we even outfit it sensors, this is running a So the infotainment is and this is prevalent in vehicles. We now have the lion's share of the cars. So this is the result of the strategy where we went from phone to Now BlackBerry software is It could be powering your securing its connected and So what we have here is the We use this for autonomous We have integrated a lot of equipment and sensors from A lot of these embedded a deck of cards. They'd be vehicle. BlackBerry works with companies and all but one We work with all major Audi, BMW, Ford, GM, just to name a few that you In the automotive IoT its QNX software is the The demand is actually security and infotainment reasons. Now, for example, demand for advanced driver camera systems and also for If we look at the industry expectation that the auto to roughly triple in size And its cybersecurity unit things like mobile banking So there's quite a rich BlackBerry, and that's governments and large medium businesses. While the cybersecurity market size of over $200 competitive. It's taking on Snowflake and CrowdStrike. And in 2021, BlackBerry was slice of that pie. Just under $500 million The competition is very Microsoft spending billions product innovation. And BlackBerry so far has competitive advantages reason: they primarily industries such as financial services care sector. But in my to become a fast-growing cybersecurity more on their go-to market these regulated industries in the broad market, the BlackBerry has recently the cybersecurity side of are more confident in the automotive IoT sector. I think that the company can than we've seen in the growth trajectory and future as well. The margin percentage While it was a major shift cellphones to cybersecurity shift that made sense for Even when they used to be a they always, the BlackBerry recognition among consumers prioritized security So BlackBerry is not new to quality security features. Its reputation for being transferable to part of its automotive industry. Keeping the internet of cyber attacks is cars become more Security researchers have proven that they could take And I do think that there's systems to be compromised be taken. And when you like ten plus computers I do not necessarily think likes of returns that peak, when they were a least for the next decade. But then again, if right, they might be able So while there's a chance anyone's mind in nearly a you interact with something every day.