Mojang have a list of glitches they say they won't from extremely useful, like this completely like how the top textures of cauldrons, slightly misaligned. Absolutely unplayable! shulker boxes and more with just a bottle of transparent, so they let you see through walls! rod and throw a channelling trident at it. a pretty nice idea of what's behind that over! Just make sure your graphics aren't set Tridents are also useful for activating redstone it straight at the wall and it will press any letting you make a really awesome secret door. intend to fix it any time soon. It's very secure, the coolest secret door in this video anyway. open forever, creating a cool circle pattern. it will stay open until you next use it! You because you can't push barrels in that version. you place blocks and interact with things hide your diamonds where nobody can see them. when you open it and the item frame glitches ago but Mojang won't be fixing it. I'd rather this There are loads of ways to make item frames look and Mojang aren't planning to fix those. weird, and Mojang say they won't fix that either. like this arrow made with a banner and a book! on yourself and jumping up through the blocks, only one inventory slot, meaning you can pole Fun fact about that one, if you place a door or standing where the second block will go, letting That will also let you see this annoying on the inside of some beds. You can even see it you won't be able to unsee that now. doesn't block sunlight from burning zombies Door sounds were changed over 12 years ago, but the sounds are the new ones! Sounds are separate so now you can't get the original Mojang preserve these old versions at all. texture is a lot darker than it would be for grass block is made of two layers so the top can explained that it's &quot;unpossible to not do this.&quot; the cracks appear on the bottom part of the On a sign, the breaking texture appears behind the Mangrove and dark oak signs are a bit hard to fixing because you can just use glow ink now, but he commented that they might add &quot;glowstone the mob vote and glow ink got added! that aren't full blocks, but where do on torches or flower pots, but you can place Speaking of cakes, they're also inconsistent. the item form only has seven. Is it I'll just cover it up with a candle. button on that candle to select it in your Cake also won't appear on maps, meaning Redstone dust isn't visible on a map either. through stained glass. Probably When you go inside a cloud, you'll of individual square pieces, instead of being places cloud pieces according to this texture! of smaller square pieces, with these unnecessary The painting item is an odd number of pixels you see it in in the inventory. They won't fix as won't fix... yet. Oh no, it's already Glass in Bedrock Edition has a major flaw! Corner right into it and you can easily place blocks too, so it's a great method for escaping if you wanna blow the whole place up. Too many memories. fall damage, the levitation effect actually will make you rocket downwards, completely safely! And whatever you do, don't expect a look like it's full of water, but that's purely though. This was marked as won't fix for Bedrock would've been marked as &quot;works as intended&quot;. that would normally take damage If there's a conduit nearby, touching water should it, water-filled cauldrons don't count as water. will burn you, but it's still Wearing leather boots will stop you sinking It's fine though, because you won't Neither will skeletons, which should You can have a floating village in Bedrock Edition can't generate below sea level. This allows waiting for you to build a secret underground from here and figure out how to stop this thing! causes mountains to turn into giant holes when get this. A real floating village! The aquifers looking pretty awesome, and don't forget to use this as a cool skyblock spawn, glitchy movement caused by being so far out. path block because they'd look weird and float off village path if it's in a cherry grove biome, If you spawn in a village with the bonus that chest might still be right nearby. a village house, slightly ruining the roof. one example is the snowy library. It looks logs aren't placed in the same orientation It's not just the houses with confusing farms generate with grass blocks underneath the villagers only just build them? actually a glitch marked as &quot;won't fix&quot;. Get almost completely full with a trapdoor be completely stuck crawling in there because This works even better with mining fatigue. levitate a bit. You also might not know that gets dangerous here, but it's the quickest You might be too big for a composter but have you witches? Their hats will clip into the ceiling if huts do need a redesign like villages got a while When a mob dies, its hitbox still exists during it, the dead one will block any attacks, making so you don't keep whacking the hitboxes As well as the hitbox, any long sounds like defeat the mob. I know I've taken out an that fourteen-second-long sound they make. making snow while it gets knocked back. A user but Mojang still said they won't fix it. down doors on hard mode, but there's a glitch You can easily zombie-proof a door by placing open. This has been a useful trick for over just a couple months before this video's release! you can still sleep while it's around. so the game thinks it's a passive mob! which looks like this, right? Wrong. For of baby cows in 1.15 for Java Edition A bee that's been given a score with the it goes into a hive. The scoreboard is useful for Hives full of honey create these block below. If you remove that block, the The particles that are emitted when you same colour as the block. They take the meaning it's possible for them to not match. term for that) and it looks like they're stuck you can even pull them around while they're the way. Sitting camels can't be pushed and so you'd expect sniffers to do the same. or mule will still be visible when you open When you wear armour, it's quite clear when it's not clear at all. Developer Jeb marked enchantment glow is a bit difficult.&quot; after developers Dinnerbone or Grumm will flip will flip back over when it tries to sit on glitch as &quot;won't fix&quot; nearly seven years ago. When you startle it, the hitbox doesn't match distance outside of its hitbox and can clip into save the whole world now. And there's the lab! glitch with world generation, meaning certain Bedrock Edition has a similar glitch that creates repeating ancient debris and end islands, too. overworld. Find your world seed and add this same end island shapes and end city locations. have a look at this seed where a desert pyramid! Mojang won't be preventing structures like these are so fun to come across! pool of lava burns your house down even if you don't build your house next to a lava pit. but it has been here for years... Alright. night vision to brighten everything the book placed on a lectern. Very weird, Hold a book in your off-hand and try putting even though it's just fine going on a lectern! an illusioner because their clones are always the goes in a dark spot, all the others will get Here's an amazing hidden base entrance. To open top half of this block and the door will a wooden pressure plate above the block and the an ancient glitch, but it look's like it'll Been digging this place out for years. No way a villager who can help us. Careful coming forever if you've got no blocks to build out Mojang developer slicedlime said &quot;given how changing the generation of the world to fix it.&quot; concrete powder on the bottom layer of the world can still fall into the void if they're placed a Oh and you don't even need the void if you want Ironic. If you travel about 65,000 blocks the Nether) you can fall through the world can do this as low as 512 blocks out, too, but wonder it took so long to add Hardcore mode. secret lab because it's placed so low down you're on the surface. You still get all the of calling it a beacon if you can't see it? that sticks out of the bottom. When you break the beacon powers off. Sure, it's not visible for very When you move out of range of a beacon, indicator doesn't blink before it runs out, would simply be too much code to fix this&quot;. in third-person mode, the camera moves through which were made of glass last time I checked. those you can actually interact Put a bubble column in the middle and you can swim Here he is! Hired this guy from another lab and Oh. Hello... (villager noise) Oh no... That's no glitch. Jukeboxes won't continue to play if you leave the ago, but was only marked as &quot;won't fix&quot; in 2021. playing when you get back but, for anyone who it won't make a sound when you go near it! the tick command to speed up the game, internal timer speeds up but the music doesn't. weakness ourselves. It's made of wool. that can cause the top texture to rotate around ones aren't. Nope, it's not your average wool. fireworks look different to ones loaded with shoot a tipped arrow, it looks just like a regular that bogged and strays use aren't visible in their said they wouldn't fix it eight years ago. clips into its head anyway because of the fix&quot; on the bug tracker. Great, fireworks don't be honest. In here! Might have just gotten When you light TNT and it falls, the fuse sound TNT like you'd expect, allowing for a silent explosion sound. Okay, that works, but we can't gonna work?! (glass smashes) Argh, we're stuck Oh... Wow! Might need some of this water! particles drip through. But if that block is an empty half of the block. They're not fixing it However, those particles aren't perfect in Java part of the block is solid, so the particles Not sure why but it's not changing! Weirdly, the stem of a big dripleaf is a lot dripleaf. doesn't work when you walk along big tower and cut this virus off at its source. with cartographers. There's a bug Mojang files in your world folder when it tries to locate test levelling up just 5 villagers and managed the map. If I'm right we can remotely activate We can get there from the minecart station. is if you name a vindicator &quot;Johnny&quot; it will which works as intended. But in Bedrock Edition, not hesitate get rid of them. It's not Ooh! You can actually start your world in get me on here! It's possible for an a massive cave above it. When you spawn so the game places you deep in the warden's work, so they can't fix the VERY unlucky ones deny it is an absolutely incredible structure! aren't they? It would make a lot more sense if They sometimes connect, but for some reason Mojang generation can be pretty unpredictable at times. ancient city generates with water or lava flowing or cause the wool floors to burn If a warden makes a sonic boom and there's no one technically no! If you die or go out of will continue the animation but there won't be This next glitch is really cute and scary. If a warden (how could you get angry with that?), stop until the axolotl stops playing dead. pretty funny. If you spawn an axolotl with another and then start zooming around really but Mojang said it won't be fixed. clouds always appear and it changes its But if it somehow has a totem of undying and don't appear but it does still change its prices. doesn't help that the hitbox of falling dripstone could get hit on the head before you've even Oh look at that! A dungeon can intersect with an I would NOT wanna dig into that by accident. two chests, but if you're lucky (and I two chests each can generate in exactly and a nice amount of loot with half the fighting! creating a lovely combination of the old dungeons Inside the trial chambers, you'll find the breeze. of their giant leaps but, for some reason, if edge because it doesn't want to take fall damage! that. And speaking of taking fall damage... here. A weird Bedrock Edition bug is that if the chest will glow slightly! With the way And, annoyingly, the minecart with chest item match the festive chests! It's a little weird but it's not really worth Mojang's resources We know Minecraft's lighting isn't exactly the that when placing a minecart on a curved exact centre of the block, so its shadow what's going on and get to the right place! and you take damage from something like a little momentum boost each time you get hit! just recently said it won't be changed back. block gap even with someone riding it, but part is that you'll actually take that damage on your last half heart, you should probably If an enderman gets in a minecart (where's he the minecart. It's not just minecarts either, this they can teleport so is it really that surprising? any more. It used to until water was changed those properties, so this glitch pretty much it. Why's there lava on the track anyway? There are some really cool nether glitches If you use commands to get a single portal won't make any particles but falling on it will! are able to put carpets on in normal gameplay. Remember that awesome secret entrance from nether and end portals. If you shoot an arrow at an end portal frame, the arrow's hitbox is just Right, we should be safe here for a bit. It's roof. In 2019, Mojang broke portal linking portals to link up with ones on the nether roof. If you do get stuck on the nether roof, you'll Mojang confirmed that to be a bug that is fixed in Bedrock Edition because you can't Compasses are supposed to spin like crazy in item frame. A clock in an item frame goes on this inconsistency, saying &quot;Let's call it an In the overworld, a compass in an item frame will and it's like that when a mob gets one. it points from the player's position! Compasses can't get through portals. (glass smashes) Oh... Edition. When you break it, the breaking texture Aw, these supplies are useless! The chest also flat, even though other blocks like the anvil pots got around the breaking texture glitch And when a decorated pot is in your hotbar in on the sides like pretty much every other block! Whoops! Never bridge with a decorated pot Bedrock-exclusive bridging method and the block instead of placing what you're holding! hitboxes that aren't centered, meaning which is good to know for a future fight. its neck can clip out of its body. properly either. When one of them looks There's been a glitch with ghasts for eleven animation when getting a fireball ready. so when LAN mode was added in 1.3, this broke was then entirely removed in 2014. They did fix one's staying as-is for some reason. Oh for- You know those little soul particles that in Bedrock Edition, they're always level! This doesn't happen in Java Edition! lag in these particle-filled nether biomes? causing those particles to appear under the lava, That's not the craziest part! They bedrock! They removed void particles from why are there particles under the nether bedrock? basalt columns are based on how they occur in real in rare cases, the basalt can generate on top of Gah! Made me jump. When a piglin wears a mob it combines them! Their ears and a piglin head and it will have four ears! the game it will stop dancing. Clearly it's the game's code doesn't save that it's dancing. piglin head's ears either. What a shame. if you place a dragon head on the wall the game won't remember that when you log back Back in 1.17, the title screen background the snapshot they took the screenshot but they chose not to fix it even when it WAS the Oh wait, the one they changed it to in 1.18 had here! That one's far less noticeable, so I don't When you go back to play your world game in third person while holding any of these image! It's really cursed, but Mojang never Apparently it's also a bug that letting you place things where the mouth is. the nether, that won't trigger a sculk sensor. vibrations as &quot;anything that causes physical they won't fix it! How did you get back here? climbing up a wall. Probably a good thing Ah, we're supposed to use an elytra here... Gonna need some fungus, which endermen can it can't normally support fungus. Thanks mate! might think. There's an extra pixel of the texture seen! Right, what were we doing? Oh yeah, this. minor bug is that a warped fungus on a stick compared to a fishing rod or even a carrot on a change. Oh, that's how it got across earlier. rod in your off-hand, it will look like Shouldn't really be fishing while you're asleep. have a saddle (this doesn't work with striders), a stick, but it will still eat it. Bit greedy! them with their AI disabled. Endermen and shulkers with no AI will still drink potions and slimes just like this, and a Mojang employee explained as part of its AI, so it doesn't get disabled. striders used to spawn in really tall stacks. length of a lead and connect the lead to the air. Why does it somehow make sense? in the overworld! If your Y-coordinate reaches developer commented on this bug with a warning. Lightyear, in that case you can go beyond.&quot; and rejoin while above 20 million on the Y-axis, Not really much of a difference up there. That Shooting a bow while above the 20 projectile at exactly 20 million if you're above 8 million. nether in a cauldron, but that's no bug! That one fenced off! Brilliant. If you jump while getting which is enough to get over a fence! Jeb said they damage knockback. Just don't do it in real life. Edition because your shadow will disappear! Sort Maybe Java's the bugged version. One fact Okay, just gotta find the button for the water it? Nothing we can use here. Not even Well, there is still one thing we can to clean it? Because sometimes... there (echoing) Redstone used to not pass through smaller than a full block. Beacon