The meals Indigenous were often as much as they were about sustenance. The Native Americans from their surroundings using the most from what And many of those part of their culture So today, we're at what Native American tribes But before we get started, to the Weird History channel. After that, would you be so and let us know what other you would like to hear about? OK, we hope you brought your [MUSIC PLAYING] In general, Native American thrived on staple foods like When available, meat, were mixed into their diets, like roots and greens. Many foods Native Americans and carbohydrates. Their recipes were often with nutrients in many of the potential that were endemic to On the other hand, it Food was also used for together. Like in many other was seen as a social strengthen communal bonds. [MUSIC PLAYING] Navajo kneel-down bread, Ntsidigo'i', was named for how The bread was made a staple of the Navajo diet. That corn would be ground down husks and then boiled or baked. Because the ends of the husk the whole thing looked of a kneeling person. Kneel-down bread was but it also often came Kneel-down bread was to medicine men in payment for And it could be offered In some places, kneel-down known as a Navajo tamale. But this isn't a universally Pashofa was a dish that included and water, and required numerous Pashofa, which could be took the form of a soup in large quantities served to bring members of the To make pashofa, corn into boiling water. The mixture would then be allowing the corn to soften. When the corn was halfway were then added in. It was important from sticking to the pot, paddles just for that purpose. Paddles made of hickory be passed down for generations, of stirring pots of pashofa. The Chickasaw and Choctaw in a healing ritual known During the ritual, would say a formula in order to drive while others danced outside. In the afternoon, pashofa would before a second round [MUSIC PLAYING] Atoo' isn't so much a is a general term for That being said, atoo' often like rabbits. Stews, soups, and incorporated vegetables such as with squash, corn, As Native American tribes to animal husbandry, and sheep also eventually Mutton atoo' was made by it to a pot of boiling water. Once vegetables were was cooked for a short and more water were added. More cooking time then followed. And when it was was often accompanied by some [MUSIC PLAYING] As another commonly found fry bread found many uses, relatively simple. It mostly just involved and shortening, which is to just unleavened Once the mixture was it could be topped with a number tomatoes, beans, or vegetables. In many ways, Navajo fry resembled a taco. The fry bread was often served soup and stews. But it could be drizzled with Once Native American to low quality farmland they became upon rations provided by the Fry bread, however, was one of could be made using and other supplies to which [MUSIC PLAYING] Wasna roughly translates And the Sioux people, made up of believed in both its nutritional According to consists of a mixture of was the lifeblood Due to its high which is sometimes was highly valued because it going for days on end. It's like the old west To make wasna, Native Americans beef, buffalo, or venison, and It was coated in melted and then eaten with Wasna was also put into but is now often shaped into for easy travel. [MUSIC PLAYING] Common among California's or Luisenos, as they're wiiwish was also with Miwok peoples, native to Wiiwish was a stew of acorns, which as are the highly nutritious Well, maybe you didn't know With more than 10 prevalent in wiiwish blended several while giving its eaters vitamins, and protein. The first step in making wiiwish each autumn. Once gathered, acorns were In preparation for the acorn would be broken were removed from the shelves. Their skin was then peeled were ground into flour. The flour was mixed with water, and then cooked into a When botanist and author traveled to the American west he ate some wiiwish and in his writings. According to it is rather flat but with that becomes Saunders continued on his own experience &quot;pronounce it about as good mush.&quot; Nonetheless, it that, &quot;cream and sugar are considered by non-Indigenous Wiiwish was just one of several used acorns, which by members of tribes including [MUSIC PLAYING] According to members of the Pueblo tribes were drinking a corn based Today however, associated with is a separate group that had groups. Dahteste, a member of the Apache he surrendered in 1886, was relatively easy to make. According to her, you on a grinding stone or matati. Then build a big fire and boil Once cooked, you take it separating out the grounds. Then you throw the grounds put it in a jar, and let for 24 hours. Dahteste indicated the took longer without yeast. Often weeds and And the grinding process Another type of the mezcal plant or other took days or weeks of crushing, Much of the literature refers to tiswin drunks. However, the role of this has been dismissed by as mostly being a myth. The reason for this is that alcohol content. Victor Randall of once commented to that it takes a lot of drinking According to Randall, most of were really drunk on tequila Piki, a thin cornbread was similar to Piki was made using was mixed with ash and water. While the dough was often was usually very fine and thin. Women would take and spread it over Once cooked, the piki or rolled and served with The art of making piki was over years of practice. And the piki stone was or house that was often [MUSIC PLAYING] The importance of the hickory can be seen in the oil for cooking and medicine. Hickory nuts could be crushed But they could also and made into what was One recipe that was common was kanuchi, or During the early autumn, women and let them dry The meat from the nuts and formed into balls. After being stored were added to a vat Once the mixture was strained Cherokee women added hominy, [MUSIC PLAYING] Wojapi was made using and sugar, which were mixed and thickened as needed. Considered to be a was common among most notably the who lived in South Dakota. Wojapi was sometimes but it could also be Despite its sweet taste, Wojapi but rather it was one of It's also stored and and at ceremonial gatherings. The use of choke was demonstrative of the These same berries and were prized for their So what do you think? Which of these dishes Let us know in the And while you're at it, check from our Weird History.