For todays' Geographics we are going to In the heart of the jungle, surrounded by sites of the Maya civilization -- a bustling 300 to 850 CE. This is Tikal, also known as Mutul -- the Perhaps less known and less celebrated than of central America, Tikal is wonderfully preserved pyramids emerging from the greenery. Along the way, we are going to find out about the two reasons why we should be thankful History of Tikal Central America who inhabited the lands comprising Tabasco, and Chiapas. Their civilization stretched well beyond current-day Belize, El Salvador and Honduras. The overall time span of the Maya extended But their civilisation reached its apex of Period', from 250 to 900 CE. The Maya have intrigued the world since their Lloyd Stephens and Frederick Catherwood. Contrary to popular imagination, the Maya inhabit the same lands. Many even continue to practice, sometimes ancestors. A prime example of the Maya cultural peak Tikal, one of the grandest cities in Mesoamerica, were established. In the 1st Century CE, the Tikalians undertook built the first monumental buildings. Tikal was surrounded by valuable goods, and Cedar wood, colour dyes, copal resin, all So did maize - or corn - a major crop In the year 378 Tikal came into contact with Aztec centre in Mexico. We don't know if the nature of this contact Aztecs definitely had an influence on the From the late 4th century, Tikal initiated an alliance with Kaminaljuyu, a rich highland Maya region. The Tikalians also conquered the long-time In the 6th century, Tikal got a taste of its from the city-state Caracol in 562. But during the following century, Tikal recovered, The city reached its zenith in the 7th century, At this time, the population of Tikal reached kilometres of multiple settlements. The ruler responsible for this resurgence Calakmul in 695 and oversaw a significant This is when the Tikalians erected the most pyramids known as Temple I and II. These buildings granted for Tikal a listing Along with other major Maya cities, Tikal and by 900 it had become a ghost town. Its gigantic structures and soaring pyramids The once-proud architecture fell into disrepair jungle, month after month, inch after inch, A Lost World and Cathewoods' expeditions in the mid-19th Of course, the ancient city was known to the to anyone near the Yucatan. Today's UNESCO heritage site consists of connected by causeways and ramps, surrounded Before the year 250, the Great Plaza and North Later constructions, such as Temples I and axis, balancing the plan of the city. Besides its imposing temples, the city also two sacred causeways, and a unique triple Yes, it is well known that the Mayas played More on this later. The larger structures at the site all display raised platforms, vaulted chambers, large But the most important feature is that many astrological considerations. For example: from one of the temples you can From another temple, along the same axis, of October. Both are key dates of the Maya sacred calendar, It is believed that the pyramidal structure caves: Mesoamerican people had used them as The North Acropolis houses temples built on for the early Tikal kings. The richest tomb belongs to Yax Nuun Ayiin, He was buried in all his finery along with nose. But as a powerful ruler, he had the privilege with him. Also, a more pleasant surprise: several fine As an aside, I would not be surprised if one inscriptions at Tikal to find it to be a giant That's because the Mayas discovered cocoa They consumed it mostly in its liquid form, an aphrodisiac. Other rulers buried in the temples, with or Great Jaguar Paw, Stormy Sky, and Smoking When hearing those names, you may have noticed a) they sound awesome, and Jaguar Paw is in fact the protagonist of Mel of the Maya civilisation. The film was mainly shot in Mexico, although Tikal. According to the local tour guides, Gibson draw inspiration from local historical characters All these rulers I mentioned dwelled in the The structure has extensive galleries, enclosed The courtyards were used for ceremonies such I'll get into these later. Obviously, viewer discretion is advised. Nearby all this is the 'Lost World', or 'Mundo It is dominated by a huge pyramid flanked Their exact purpose is unknown, but those the equinoxes. This is more proof of the Maya's incredibly The real centre-pieces of the Tikal site are Temple I is a 50 meter (164 ft) high pyramid. If you want to get on top, you will have to so narrow they can only be climbed side-footed. Temple I is layered over nine levels, in imitation This temple was also the burial site for the His wife may have been buried in Temple II, The tallest structure in Tikal, though, is a tomb to a king named Yax Kin. Fun fact: it was from the top of this Temple Wars: A New Hope'. I am no expert of Star Wars lore, but according of Yavin IV. Tikal rulers were celebrated not only by massive which depicted their features and recorded Such stelae in Tikal are the oldest recorded One of them shows a ruler holding in his left guide to the religion and customs of the Mayas: The Jaguar God of Xibalba deity of Tikal. Among other things he was the patron of War, god. But most importantly, he was one of the Lords frightening place we would call the Underworld. The Jaguar God is usually depicted as having large tooth. The Maya carved or drew this God with so-called a curious attribute for one of the Lords of This has led to interpret the Jaguar as a it travels through Xibalba. Xibalba was a terrifying place, in which all It was populated by deities with cheerful Bloody Claw. Which by total coincidence, are the names Xibalba was covered in eternal darkness and of blood and pus. A newly arrived soul would start a quest for Lords of Xibalba would steer them in the right Souls of the dead had to ascend the nine levels then climb thirteen more levels before reaching The stay here was short, for souls then descended it, to live in eternal happiness. A well deserved happiness, I'd like to add. The only souls considered exempt from this died in childbirth, those killed in warfare, game Poc-a-Toc. Before I continue my exquisite investigation please allow me to talk sports. I am a bloke after all. So what is Poc-a-Toc exactly? Poc-a-toc courts for playing Poc-a-toc, located in its Here the courts are surrounded by palaces, buildings and terraces. The traditional ball game of Poc-a-toc was history. Some sources claim it is even older, invented That would make it arguably the first organized the first organized ball sport. Another reason to say 'thank you' to the Poc-a-Toc was the most popular game among or competition: it symbolized the human struggle, the way the Mayas viewed existence. If you want to try your hand at Poc-a-toc, But we do know that the game involved two They faced each other, trying to score a small to a wall, twenty feet in the air or even Sounds easy? Wait to hear this. The solid rubber balls used were heavy, up injury or even death. Plus, players were not allowed to use the their hips, shoulders, head and knees to hurl Spanish Bishop Diego De Landa wrote that watching lightning strikes, due to the speed and skill Some matches were simply what they looked on the side, very often with critical injuries But others had a deep religious meaning, involving It has long been believed that the losing the end of the match. But recent findings suggest the opposite: put to a quick death. This would ensure them an escape from the to paradise, as I said earlier. In other occasions, the city rulers would rigged game. In that case, it was the losing captives who Other theories about the mysterious Poc-a-toc rival cities, which is a great way to resolve In WWII my country could have won in just a game of test cricket, for example. Although I am not so sure about the results as soccer if you belong to the former colonies. Warfare aside, the game of Poc-a-toc's importance Vuh, one of the few remaining books of the Here, the game is played by Hunahpu and Xbalanque, of Xibalba. The Popol Vuh destroyed following the invasion of the Spanish The Bishop of the Yucatan peninsula, and sports culprit: he had most of these books burned As they used to say, nobody expects the Spanish The Popol Vuh was one of the very few survivors, Maya traditions and especially their creation The Mayas also knew this book as 'The Light its translation into Spanish by the missionary in Europe as "the Maya Bible". The comparison is not precise, though, as poem, the equivalent of the Iliad and Odyssey, The Mayas would have defined this book as a hearer with clarity. The Popol Vuh is a collection of stories that human beings, and how the order was established through their victory over the forces of darkness In these stories, the early demi-gods Hun planets and fertility, are excellent Poc-a-Toc They enjoy themselves too much playing it, dark Lords of Xibalba. They invite the two brothers to the underworld, This is just a pretext, and the two demi-gods Their bodies are buried under the Poc-a-toc inside a calabash tree, as a warning for the This head is still animated, though, and it Xquiq. She later becomes pregnant with two boys: Not only they are both ace Poc-a-Toc-ans (if warriors who defeat the Lords of Xibalba and A Spiritual World, A Cyclical Time complex nature of Maya religion, which trickled their architecture, to their personal appearance, The Maya gods may have lived in Tamoanchan, of everyday life. The jungles surrounding their cities were Caax, protector of plants and animals. The rains came because Chac was pleased and Each individual had a spirit guide, the Wayob, a dream, relaying messages from the spiritual Each year, at the spring and autumn equinoxes, the sky down the staircase of his temples. In summary, the whole of the earth, and human needed to be honoured and consulted, for the Mathematics and Astronomy were also part of in the creation of the Sacred Calendar. The Maya actually had two calendars: a secular a sacred one to predict the future and chart The scribes and the priests doubled as astronomers, in the celestial patterns the celestial messages These messages would be carried to the ruler and the people. Inconveniently, these gods had a taste for Blood was their food and the kings were not A ritual involved the king using a string on a leaf which was then burned as an offering If the offering was acceptable, based on the of the king was granted. If not, a further sacrifice was needed. While gods accepted animals and gems as a beliefs. Excavations in and around Tikal and other be sacrificial victims. Human sacrifice is also depicted in paintings Some of these victims were prisoners of war, Remember -- Dying as a sacrificial victim ascension to Heaven. Our 'friend' Bishop De Landa, wrote: goodwill or favour of their gods...They believed pestilences, dissensions, or droughts or the piety and all law of reason they made sacrifices In other cities, like Chichen Itza the sacrifice Cenote, a deep natural well. But in Tikal and other sites, victims were Or, as depicted most frequently by popular out on the altar of a temple. The Mayas believed in the cyclical nature So, for them, nothing and no one ever truly Sacrificial victims were considered to have We don't have their views on the matter, All of existence carried on eternally in the in both the secular and sacred calendars. Now, if you are aged seven or younger ... you I have been talking about people being disembowelled. For Pete's sake, go back to Peppa Pig. But if you are eight or older, you may remember Based on an incorrect interpretation of the would end on the 21st of December 2012. But this is the wrong way to look at the Maya For the Maya, time was eternal, bound in endless The identified date in 2012 was simply the the beginning of another. It could be argued that Time itself was the intricate calendars rose from, and then shaped, Decline of the Mayas end of one such cycles of time. That period, during which Tikal was abandoned so-called Classic Maya Period. This was the age of maximum splendour for reached their peak in science, architecture, the millions. Then, the Mayas mysteriously started abandoning into the surrounding rural areas. So far, archaeologists and historians have happened: climate change and overpopulation The Toltecs, a new tribe moving into the region, them. The Mayas scattered around the jungles and several tribes such as the Quiche [Key-tches] After a long period of decline, a calamity This one is clearly documented -- the arrival On the 6th of December 1523, one of Hernan left Tenochtitlan - Mexico City - looking He was leading 400 Spanish soldiers and over The area was not completely unknown to the introduced smallpox, which had eradicated Alvarado soon clashed with the Quiche Mayas, from their capital Utatlan. The Quiche were not a unified people, though: the fertile valleys to inhabit fortress-like All this had put them in a position of weakness When Alvarado and his men arrived at Utatlan The Quiches refused to cooperate and their But Alvarado had already brought the Cakchiquel treatment. Tecum succeeded in increasing his army to They marched into battle behind flag bearers, Then, on a plain outside of Quetzaltenango, The Quiches, numerically superior, were outclassed a horrific defeat. The Quiches surrendered, and Alvarado burned The year of the battle of Utatlan, 1524, traditionally Going to Tikal Heritage site, embedded within the Maya Biosphere The Park is one of the few World Heritage and cultural criteria, for its extraordinary The park boasts 57,600 hectares of wetlands, plus the main archaeological sites. Local wildlife includes jaguars, pumas, anteaters, of monkeys. By the way, watch out for the monkeys. You don't piss off the monkeys. One of our team went there some years ago, He was targeted with vines, branches and faeces. From the monkeys. You leave the monkeys alone. So, if you are lucky enough to visit Guatemala, If time is indeed cyclical, and nothing ever and mostly intact since it was abandoned hundreds to witness the might and spiritual knowledge