Ladies and gentlemen, please welcome Anjelah Johnson-Reyes. - Wow. Nashville. I am so honored to be recording my sixth hour special here at the historic Ryman Auditorium. What a blessing. I've been doing standup comedy I am now 40. Aw, thank you for cheering for that part. I'm getting older. I'll be honest, having I thought I was gonna be the girl that no matter what age I was, like, &quot;That's me. Yes, queen, yes.&quot; Turns out that's something Then you get to your 40s and What happened? Oh no. That's too much eyelid.&quot; It's scary getting older. It's scary for women getting older because men, if you get That's salt and pepper, eh. Women, we get gray hair &quot;What happened?&quot; That's not fair. I gotta start changing I can't keep shopping at the like Forever 21. No, you're not. Turns out that was a lie. I cannot be in line buying the same dress as her. She's out here living her best life. I'm trying to remember We like the same dress She's like, &quot;Ooh, has pockets for my ID.&quot; I'm like, &quot;Ooh, pockets for my Tums.&quot; You gotta put that down. Go to Ann Taylor Loft where we belong. Go to White House Black Market. Do a loop-de-loop at Talbots. Pass by J. Jill. Peek your head in at Chicos. And then go home 'cause your feet hurt. I'm approaching the age where I'm gonna start getting my clothes at the same place I get my groceries. Say I won't. You will catch me at Costco. Yes. About to get them Kirkland Jeans, them Kirkland socks, Hey, this Kirkland Gang Gang, what? It's about to be my new Tuesday. I'm gonna start out front, gimme a hotdog and a soda for a dollar 50. Then I'll flash my VIP I start with a lap of samples. Then I take my hair outta my ponytail. Make a lap in the other direction. Round two. Hey, but if you come in for be warned. These sample ladies get offended. They act a type of way, if you like they have been baking Like really, Beth? Just gimme another chicken tender. Why you gotta do this? It's embarrassing enough It's embarrassing, right? Because you have to pretend like you've never heard You said it's a tender? And you dip it. Sure, I'll try one. I be coming up with lies I do, I'll be like, &quot;I'm sorry, can I get another one for my Where is he, oh he's at home. I forget that I'm a little bit famous and sometimes people recognize me because one time I came and the sample lady was I was like, &quot;On TV?&quot; She goes, &quot;No, this is your third time.&quot; Mind your business, Beth. It's hard getting older. There's too many acronyms Like my friend text me the I was like, what's that? She said, &quot;Too long, didn't read.&quot; I was like, &quot;Oh, well, too I know BRB and LOL, that's it. And I have come to realize that I am far too generous with my LOLs. LOL has become a common courtesy. It's just a thing you say. Like another common courtesy. If somebody's next to you and - [All] Bless you. - But are you really No, it's just a thing you say. When your friend texts you and What do you say? - [All] LOL. - Did you really laugh out loud? No, you didn't. At this point LOL just means If I reply to your text with LOL, at most, a little bit of air came out my nostril. If I replied to your text with LOL, this is how I read your text. Like it was funny, but I If I reply to your text with If I reply to your text with bwa-ha-ha-ha, like B-W-H-A-H-A, that I had to spit something out my mouth. If I reply to your text with I start using other letters like hhak-ha-ha-ha-q- r-s-t-ha-ha, That means that I said something funny and I'm really proud of myself. It's hard getting older, I will always be younger I'm my sister's little sister. Any other little sisters here tonight? Little sisters. Dare I say the little Probably because the from having to raise Because when mom was at she had to clean, she gave My sister was stressed out We'd catch her on the side of the house smoking those candy cigarettes. There was a dark period of time where she was going through Probably 'cause those things in each cigarette. Those were some wild times, man. We'd be at the ice cream truck fake chewing tobacco. I was nine years old doing Wild. I am my sister's little sister. We grew up best friends, I talk to my sister like five times a day, which is great for me. Not so much for her And I call her when she's at work, so she answers the Hello? I go, &quot;Hi, what's up?&quot; Oh, nothing, what are you doing? I'm working. Dang, you work every day? All right then. Anyway, I was watching It was real good. But then I fell asleep and I was hiking up this mountain and there were these that kept chirping at me. Then I get to the top of the mountain and grandma's house is there, grandma from Reno. And I was like, &quot;Dang, that's crazy.&quot; Anyway, what are you doing? Still working. Oh, okay, call me later. Bye. Then I hang up. Only she doesn't call me later, But she's at work, I So I give it like at least Now she answers the Now she has deadlines, Now she answers the phone, &quot;What's up?&quot; Oh, real quick. Do you remember when dad Yeah. And remember how we always used to have those Dorito sandwiches Yeah. Those are good, huh? And you'd think she'd be pissed 'cause I'm wasting her time. But now we're talking about So she participates. Those were so good, I haven't thought about those in forever. I know, do you ever think Yeah. Do you ever think about fish sticks? Yeah. Okay, I'll call you later, bye. If I ever call my sister and I automatically assume it was a mistake. She left her phone in the bathroom, I should definitely call her right back. And if she still doesn't answer the phone, then I wait for the text message from her that says on a conference call, what's up? If I don't get the on a conference call, what's up text that I know for a fact she's probably being attacked and I should definitely call her until she answers the phone. But she loves it though. You know what I mean? Especially when she's real busy at work. I'm like a breath of fresh air. Sometimes I call my sister and We're just on the phone and He's like, &quot;What are you doing? Hang up the phone.&quot; I'm talking to my sister. But neither one of you're saying anything. Yeah, because we're thinking about what we're gonna say next. I love hanging out with my Although it's been difficult 'cause of the pandemic. And I find it funny that everybody experienced it differently depending on what part Like I remember when things in 2020, we were watching the news and it was like everybody Everybody in Spain had Everybody in Florida was on Just wilding. I don't even know if Because they were at the Hey, I'm a savage, yeah Classy, bougie, ratchet, yeah And I was at home watching the news like, &quot;Florida, what are you doing? You're embarrassing us.&quot; I remember when things and they were like, &quot;All Only essential employees.&quot; And first of all, let's give it up for any essential employees We thank you. We appreciate you, we Whether you were in the It was a scary time, we didn't And you put that Hawaiian We appreciate that. It was an emergency. I needed my honey sesame cashews. They said, only essential So in my mind, I was visualizing all these high rise buildings offices empty. It did not compute in my brain that that also meant TJ Maxx was closed. Because I went to TJ Maxx And I was like, &quot;What's this?&quot; They said, &quot;It's a world pandemic.&quot; I was like, &quot;Yeah, but at TJ Maxx though, isn't this essential? It is for me.&quot; Any other Maxxanistas Yes, Maxxanistas. We go to TJ Maxx when It's just a part of our mental health day. We just wanna go look at I feel good at TJ Maxx knowing that anything I I could get right here in this store. Whatever you need. You want a new outfit We got you over here. You want some random spices over there by the lentil chips. You want some makeup for 50% off? Yes, I do. It's probably seven years old. But it's Urban Decay for 3.99. By that point it has It's as if TJ Maxx was saying, I love TJ Maxx. But they always get me at the end in that zigzag register line, right? Where they have all the last minute buys, all the things you didn't I can be walking around I have two things in my cart. Then I start making my By the time I get to All right here in the home stretch, you start walking through, you're like, &quot;Oh wow, candles, coffee mugs, dog treats, slippers, wow.&quot; And then the line starts moving too fast. You're like, &quot;Wait, I didn't Hold on. Excuse, I just wanna smell that candle. Excuse me, sorry about that.&quot; Oh God, no. Don't smell that, it's bad. Don't do it. Love TJ Maxx. The doors were locked, I couldn't get in. I tried. It's two o'clock. This is getting serious. A lot has changed since COVID, globally on a world scale, But even individually in our own lives, we have all experienced Like I know people who quit the gym, quit their marriage. A lot of divorces in 2020. People were like, &quot;Whoa, whoa, whoa. I didn't sign up for all this.&quot; Actually, you did, till death do us part. Yeah, but every day though? We had some changes happen for us as well. Like right in the beginning when everybody was losing work, my best friend and her And then what happened was Yeah, we had said we didn't want kids and then we adopted a single mom. It's a blessing. They move in with us and now we look like we have our own big because from the outside looking in, it looks like we have like I imagine when they first moved in, my neighbors were like, &quot;Oh, that's nice. Her sister's moving in And now that they're still &quot;Wait, that's her sister And my friend that moved Just a stunning human being. So people would message me and be like, &quot;Aren't you a little concerned having a beautiful woman around And I was like, &quot;No, Like if anything, she got She did because like when she moved in, I started doing that one thing. What do they call it, try. I started trying. I started wearing clothes with Hey, look at me go. I had to step my game up, not 'cause I was concerned I just didn't want the neighbors to think that she was wife number one. Her son Elijah, he was 10 years and he's used to being a single mom who's doing the best she can. So he knew how to work the system. Then they move in with us and now he has three He loves that part. And we all have a role in the house. Penelope is his mom, and what not to do because she's the mom. But if he doesn't listen, that's when my husband, Tio Manwell is like the law of the house. Yes. And my role is, I'm the snitch. Say I won't. I'm the one that's like, to be watching YouTube Hmm, that's interesting.&quot; I love Elijah, I'm very close with Elijah. I'm his godmother, I'm Nina. So we have the auntie nephew relationship. I've been in his life since day one. Literally the day he was born, I saw his head come out He wasn't ready, it was a long day. I love Elijah. We're very close, he's my godson. But something happened, when our dynamic shifted to be And I realize we're both He's used to having his mom's Then they move in with us and I'm like, &quot;My best We're gonna hang out every So now I'm the thing in his way, but he's also the thing in my way. He doesn't have siblings so I don't have kids, I So now we just bump heads. Sometimes Elijah and I will with each other, but other times I just see him in the hallway and check. I snitch on Elijah, but 'Cause we have security and he didn't know this at the I got a notification on my phone that there was motion in the backyard. So I click on it, &quot;What's this?&quot; And it's him talking to his mom and he was complaining about me. I'll tell you guys what Give you a little bit of backstory. We were in the kitchen. He had just popped off at the So I was like, &quot;Okay, me too.&quot; So she took him in the backyard to word him up and be You can't be given an attitude,&quot; I missed the beginning By the time I click on it, all I hear is him telling his mom, &quot;Oh yeah, well why does And little does he know my sarcasm is what paid for this house. So you're welcome. But now I have to chime Oh yeah, I'm sarcastic, Oh well, if Nina stops being sarcastic, you start being homeless. We had another big change happen for us. 'Cause I was born and Spent my whole life there. Thank you. So never did I imagine that that I would be moving Thank you. Listen, that's very kind because I am well aware that people from Nashville do not like Californians moving here. And hey, I get it. Me either, let's cut it off after me. This is getting ridiculous. House prices are through this is not the Nashville Learning a lot being a California 'Cause it's different here I've learned when I go to a restaurant, if I order an iced tea, with three pounds of sugar in it. Y'all call that sweet tea. We call it diabetea. Learning a lot. Very simple things like if I go to a store and they're like, &quot;Can I help you find anything?&quot; I'm like, &quot;I'm okay.&quot; And if I'm feeling really &quot;I'm okay, thanks.&quot; That's it, that's where it ends. Then I got to Nashville. I'm at TJ Maxx one day. I can hear the ladies &quot;Can I help you find anything?&quot; &quot;I'm all right, but thank &quot;It's my pleasure, it's &quot;Yes it is.&quot; &quot;But they say it's gonna Make sure you get home before the traffic. It's gonna be a mess.&quot; &quot;Bless your heart.&quot; I was like, &quot;Ooh, I don't for the South.&quot; I don't know how to do it. Like who stops talking first? Then I look around the corner and neither one of them even worked there. And then somebody told me this. They were like, &quot;Hey, when they can mean it in a And I was like, &quot;What, like And they're like, &quot;No, trust me. Sometimes that's not what they mean.&quot; So now anytime somebody just to be safe, I reply Yeah, I wish you would bless my heart. Bless it again, go ahead. It's kind of like the old I'm gonna pray for you. Oh, that's funny 'cause I'm Yeah, you been on my prayer wall. About to lay hands on Learning a lot. When we first got to Nashville, what part of the city Like where do we fit in? Where do we vibe with, finding out this county has good schools, this county doesn't. This county believes in Where do we fit? And I would tell my friends, I'd be like, &quot;Hey, I wanna live somewhere where I could get a lot of land.&quot; And they're like, &quot;Okay, I'm like, &quot;Okay, cool, co, co, co, cool. But I also don't want my So how far South?&quot; You know what I mean? Like are we talking Franklin or Pulaski? Like how far? Because when you get to the I've seen movies. I'm not trying to do that. I mean if they have a TJ Maxx And I'm a good neighbor. Like State Farm, I'm there. I love my neighbors. I'm the one that has And if I haven't seen you in a while, I will send you a text. &quot;Are you good, do I need I got your back.&quot; 'Cause I love my neighbors. Every holiday season I'm Not the whole neighborhood, just the houses I can because I love my neighbors, as long as they love me. And I know that's not but that is my interpretation. This is not the new King James version. This is a new Queen Anjelah version. This is Anjelah 5:14. &quot;Do unto me as you wanna get done.&quot; That's how you say amen in my Bible. You could come to my Bible study, it's on Tuesdays. Learning a lot. One thing I learned right out the gate is allergies are a whole Because when I live in Los Angeles, we don't really get all the seasons. We get summer and fire. So Zyrtec works just fine there. Then I get here, come to find out Zyrtec lost their it did not work. One day I went to pour and the wind just blew it off. It was like, &quot;Don't bother.&quot; It's so fun waking up every morning playing COVID or allergies. Do you guys know that game? where you wake up in the morning and your sinuses are doing a weird thing and you're like, &quot;Wait a minute, hold on. Am I dying or did I have dairy? Can I taste anything? Gimme some peanut butter, can I taste?&quot; I was actually really lucky I did not get COVID at all. And then earlier this She gets around that one. At this point I know more than who have not had it. I know people who have had it and I know people personally So my heart goes out to anybody here who has lost somebody from COVID. I've been tested for it many times and the first time I got tested, my friends try to warn me about it. They were like, &quot;Yo, it's intense.&quot; And it actually wasn't that bad probably 'cause they let me do it myself. Yeah, they gave me the Q-tip and they're like, &quot;Okay, you wanna go all the way in your sinuses?&quot; And I was like, &quot;Okay. Sure, sure, sure, sure, sure, sure. How about I just put it in my Can you test boogers? I'll give you some of those.&quot; The second time I got COVID and he went all the way up in there to where like my eyelids started closing. I was like, &quot;Whoa, you're He's like, &quot;It's not that far up there.&quot; I was like, &quot;Nah bro, you're in my brain like you're giving basic Like if I punch you, it's He's like, &quot;Well I'm sorry.&quot; I was like, &quot;No, no, no, don't apologize. Just while you're up there, do you mind scraping out That'd be great.&quot; Could you imagine if Get your childhood trauma You'd catch me at the CVS like once a week. They're like, &quot;Can we help you?&quot; &quot;Hi, I'm here for my COVID my mom forgot me at the store.&quot; Another thing I've learned is the bugs are bigger. Y'all got some Nashville Like in California we have Then I get to Nashville, I went to get in my shower one morning. There was a spider in my shower. Now this spider was so big, I thought I was interrupting him. I did, I went to open the shower curtain and I was like, &quot;Oh my God, I'm so sorry. I didn't know anybody He was big, and he was furry too. Yeah, I didn't know if I I didn't know. He was so furry, he had dander. I need my Zyrtec pill just I was like, &quot;Sir, the Head Help yourself.&quot; If I ever have to kill a spider that big, I am morally conflicted, because at that point that's a pet. Put a collar on that thing, that's Bubba. Bubba had plans that day. He was just getting That's messed up. If you ever have to you could hear the crunch. And if you hear the crunch, you know that thing had a soul. That's messed up. I used to kill any spider 'cause I don't like bugs at all. But over the past couple years for nature and insects. So now if I ever see a spider in my house, what I like to do is scoop take it outside, throw it in a bush, and then immediately go like this. But if I'm left with no choice and I have to kill a spider, I now like to start with an apology. &quot;Listen sir, I know you I'll be honest, neither was I. Truth is I don't know you. You could be poisonous So at this point, it's either me or you and I have chosen you.&quot; There was this one night I because that's what home alone means. And I was watching the &quot;Night Stalker&quot;. Did you guys see that one? The documentary about the serial killer that was in Southern California So I'm home alone watching this show. Super creepy, episode's done, I turn the TV off, and all of a sudden I hear I said, &quot;Nope.&quot; I ran to my room. I put on every piece I said, &quot;If he's gonna try to assault me, he's gonna have to work real hard.&quot; I don't have no weapons in the house. What's my self-defense weapon? Denim, three pair. After a while, nobody came in the house, but I kept hearing the noise. Finally, I go to the window, I move the curtain and I look outside and it's not a psychopath it was a mosquito the Or maybe it was a cicada, I don't know. I never seen a cicada in my life. But everybody kept telling Maybe it was one of those. Maybe it was a mix of both. Maybe it was a muscada, I don't know. Some Nashville geographic stuff happening. This was the kicker for me though. There was one night I was driving home and I'm pulling into my driveway and what do I see a That's where I draw the line right there. That's where I was like, &quot;All right, you know what Nashville, This is getting ridiculous. I'm not a big fan of wild snakes. Pet snakes I'm okay with. Like if there was a snake right here and he came with a co-signer. Like he came with a guy that was like, &quot;Oh yeah, I like that snake, that's a good snake. Him, I don't know him. He probably had that He probably just ate a baby. Pet snakes I'm okay with. Like, you know how sometimes and there'll be that one guy with like a hundred pound and he's just walking around. He's like, &quot;Yeah, you wanna I'm like, &quot;I'll do it.&quot; He's like, &quot;All right, 20 bucks.&quot; Yeah, I don't need no picture. But the point is, I was down. I was gonna do it if it was free, because free is my love language. Learning a lot. Being a California girl I actually had my very first And like I said, I'm from California. We don't get tornadoes in Now, earthquakes are scary for people who have never experienced one, but actually they're not that bad. To be honest, I will take an earthquake over a tornado any day. Like lemme tell you, I will ride that quake. Like hey. But a tornado though, I don't This is what happened. We were asleep, it was 3:00 AM. I get one of those amber the alert that goes off real loud. And I was like, &quot;Okay, first of all, what child is getting kidnapped at 3:00 AM that they need to wake me What VIP child is this that they think at 3:00 looking for Honda Civics?&quot; A silver one, it's always silver. I check my phone, whose kid is this? And it says, &quot;Tornado warning, take cover now in a basement.&quot; Ooh, my heart started beating so fast. I said, &quot;Oh my God, do I don't even know.&quot; Because I'm from California, we don't do basements in California. That's dangerous, 'cause I wake up my husband, I was like, &quot;Babe, babe, we got an alert on the phone. It says there's gonna be a tornado. We gotta go in the basement, Now my husband is an army brat. He grew up everywhere. He spends a lot of time &quot;Oh, we used to get these all the time. Don't even worry about it. Just go back to sleep.&quot; To sleep. But they just woke me up. I don't think that's what they want. He was like, &quot;What county is it in? Oh yeah, that's like five miles away. We're good, we could He went back to sleep, I got up, I said, &quot;Oh no, We sleep with one of that plays like the rain sounds. So we were already in We had our own storm going on. It was on surround There was stuff blowing up on the windows, but I didn't even notice it was a good episode that night. I was like, &quot;Ooh, this I get up, I turn the sleep machine off and that is when we can hear Then my husband, &quot;Go, go, go, get up, go. Go, get up, go.&quot; What? But you said we can watch it. We both start freaking out. I'm grabbing things we don't even need like Windex, a stapler. Where do we go? Turns out we do have a basement. Guess where it is, outside? Like we're in the &quot;Wizard of Oz&quot;. We keep it locked for safety and we keep the key in the You highly underestimate until you're in an emergency situation. I don't know how you guys keep Maybe you're highly organized. I open up my drawer, I gotta sift through a bunch of dead batteries, hella rubber bands. We don't even use rubber bands, but every time we get Why? What is so sacred about a rubber band that we can't throw it away. Whether it came wrapped or asparagus, it's in the drawer now. And that asparagus rubber Woo, we better save this. Got about 86 keys in here. We don't even have 86 locks. Finally find the basement key. We go outside, unlock the door, And that is when we realize that we are fully unprepared We have no emergency necessities no food, no batteries, nothing. Just me, my husband, and hella spiders. And they were all looking like they recognized me. &quot;That's her. Listen ma'am, I know you but this is from a While we were trying to figure out what part of the city my husband and I were staying Now, I don't know if anybody here has ever lived in a but when you're young and It's convenient. Like you'll be in your You're like, &quot;You know what? I'm tired, I wanna go Boom, already there. Convenient when you're young and single. However, studio apartment isn't real conducive to staying married. Because you have no personal space. Like at our old house, if we he goes to this room, I go to that room, we cool off, we're fine. Now in a studio apartment, if we get in an argument we just gotta keep looking You know how hard that is? That is challenging. That should be a TikTok And my husband's good looking, typically he's really fun to look at. But if we have been arguing, I will make all his pretty I'll be like, &quot;You know what? You see how your teeth and you don't need a retainer? That's annoying. And like we get it. You have perfect bone structure. Honestly, you have no character If we get into an argument, my husband doesn't wanna he wants to call it a talkament. Just the fact that he wants to me, now we're in a full blown argument. He wants to call it a talkament because he wants to talk it out. Let's get to the bottom of it. Let's get to the root of the problem. And when my husband talks it out, he likes to talk in circles. Circles are his favorite shape. He likes to say the but a little bit differently And when my husband talks it out, he likes to ask a lot of questions, questions, questions, He thinks he's being inquisitive. I think that I'm on the stand and I need to defend Questions, questions, Yeah, I know you said that, but why? No, I know that's what you said, but why? I don't know why. Yes, you do, objection, He's like, overruled. But why? No, I know that's what you said, but why? Because that's how I feel. Okay, that's your feelings. But what's your facts though? That's how you feel. But what are your facts Oh, you're stupid, that's my facts. And it's not that my husband is stupid, it's just that I don't I can start in a talkament, we're just having a conversation. We're both calm until he triggers me, which is like sentence number three. And then next thing you They weren't even invited to this party, but they showed up The more questions he asked, questions, questions, Next thing you know, here go And when I'm in an argument, my words come out like little shanks. He's over here trying to And now I have a bloody Sorry, I didn't mean it. I was just trying to win. My therapist hates that joke. I am working on it though. I am working on my communication. I wish I could be more She's so calm, cool, and One day I asked her, I was like, &quot;Girl, do you ever get in an She was like, &quot;Yes.&quot; She started telling me and he had said something to her and she was like, &quot;Okay, it makes me feel like what you're saying is I'm doing it wrong.&quot; And then he was like, &quot;Oh no, that's not how I meant it at all. I'm so sorry it came out that way.&quot; That was their argument. I'm sorry, what? How do you do that? Like how many COVID swabs to respond like that? Like no emotions involved, When you say that, &quot;It makes me feel like what you're saying is I'm doing it wrong.&quot; Me in that same conversation. &quot;Oh, so I can't do nothing right then. Wow, so why you even married to me?&quot; I am working on it. Living in a studio apartment things that are normally easy like watching TV. In a studio apartment, you have to both wanna Then you have to wanna at the same volume preference. Now, I don't know if my but to him, if the TV is it might as well be on mute. God forbid I bring the volume down to 65, he will passive aggressively It's his silent way of yelling at me. If my husband cannot feel coming out of the TV, not loud enough. And we watch different stuff. My husband likes to watch UFC fights and the Hallmark channel, He's into extreme violence Me, I just wanna watch those are my shows. All the crime shows. If there is not an a bad guy to be caught, telling me how the woman's body was dragged behind the building, then I don't wanna watch it. I like all the crime shows, whether it's a network procedural drama like &quot;Law and Order&quot;, &quot;NCIS&quot;, &quot;SWAT', &quot;Criminal Minds&quot;, &quot;FBI&quot;. Like anything Dick Wolf, But I also love the docuseries shows. &quot;Forensic Files&quot;, &quot;The And I travel a lot with standup. So a lot of times I go to cities that are always on that show. And I'll arrive in that &quot;Oh my God, I'm in Dade County. I could totally get murdered right now.&quot; Like I get all star struck. My favorite one is &quot;Law and Order SVU&quot;. Yes. Anybody watching the with Detective Stabler? Let's talk about Stabler for a second. Christopher Meloni plays He was on &quot;Law and Order and then he left the show for 10 years and then he came back. Now I don't know what he I don't know what they call that, intermittent fasting, I don't know what he did. But when he got on the I did, I was like, &quot;Oh my God Stabler, stop flirting with me.&quot; And the day after that premier episode, he posted on Instagram that And I was like, &quot;Wait a minute. Hold on. Do I have a crush on my dad's friend?&quot; What, that's weird, Let's go 60. Watching TV with my husband is difficult, but at least it's not That is a whole different experience. Like if you come to the house and you start watching a movie with my dad and they say way too many cuss words, he gets real religious. God forbid they say the &quot;Oh, forgive them Father.&quot; My dad's the guy who he is counting the amount of bullets coming out of a gun for accuracy. And the second they go over for that type of gun, he has You think you're just watching a movie. He's silently fact checking. &quot;Ah, come on, 47 bullets on Really dad, the bullets not the zombies they were shooting. And why is it so awkward with your parents and I am a grown adult and it is still awkward and my dad makes it even worse, because he gets visibly uncomfortable. He starts shifting around mumbling things under his breath, like great, now they're gonna do it. Speaking of people doing When I was younger in my twenties, I shared an apartment And her room faced the apartment Well, there was a couple in that building that they liked to do the and the blinds open, So anytime they would start going at it, she would call me on the phone in my room and be like, &quot;They're doing it again. Hurry up, get over here.&quot; And I'd be like, &quot;Ew.&quot; And then I go running over there. But by the time I get there, they already started closing I'm like, &quot;Oh man, missed it again.&quot; And not like I was gonna sit But it is kind of a sight to be seen. Like are you guys trying to tell me that if you were walking down the street in your neighborhood and going at it in the front window, you wouldn't give it a look. You wouldn't be just minding You won't do a lap. It's kind of like a car You don't want to see but if one is there, you're gonna assess the situation. Same thing, you see your neighbors going at it in the window, you just gotta assess the situation. Ah, we got a fender bender. Bender all the way over. Living in a studio apartment it's very difficult. But there is one good thing about it. I will say this, one good thing, we could only fit a smaller So my husband had no choice which I love but he hates because he says I'm the And to that I say, &quot;thank you so much.&quot; My husband says, &quot;I'm like a furnace.&quot; Any other furnaces in Yeah, he'll get in the bed and be like, &quot;Seriously baby, We like to sleep with a bedroom Yeah, but I like all the blankets on so I'm nice and cozy with He likes no blankets on, psychopath. I have to negotiate cuddle Like he'll get in the bed and he'll be like, Seriously babe, it's hot. I can't sleep if I'm hot, come on.&quot; And I'll be like, &quot;Just gimme He'll be like, &quot;Okay, fine.&quot; &quot;Siri set a timer for two minutes&quot; And if he even tries to pull away before that buzzer goes off, I'm like, &quot;Nice try, 30 second penalty.&quot; I got a tip for all This is a tip, this is what I do. I go to bed first and I like an angel. Then I wait for him to get in the bed, get nice and comfortable. This is the trick right here. You gotta wait for his Right when it gets nice and slow, that's when you just spider leg him up. Welcome to tarantula's web. Try it. If my husband tries to tell me I'll be like, &quot;Okay, can And I'm very grateful because to rub my feet, he will do it. But it only lasts about two minutes. And then he gives up and then I have to tap my foot to let him know he's not done yet. Hello. Boo boo. It's not even time for Yellow. And then he starts rubbing my feet again for maybe another three minutes And this is how my husband tells me that he is done rubbing my feet. He goes like this, &quot;Ah, ugh&quot; He gets the most aggressive hand cramp. Ugh, cancel all my plans this week. When I do finally get my he likes to whisper sweet He'll say things like, I It's so romantic. Living in a studio apartment is difficult because you It's like every time I turn I turn around, he's right here, turn around, he's right there. Like, &quot;Whoa, weren't you just here? How'd you do that?&quot; Every time I turn around, he's there. It reminds me of a song I know called &quot;Total Eclipse of the Heart&quot;. You guys remember that song? Well, I felt like it So I wrote some new - [Audience] Yeah. - Okay, I'll do it for you guys. But here's the thing, I need your help. - Yes. to sing all the turn around parts. Do you know what I mean? - All right, let's do a practice round. Okay, 'cause only seven You guys do all the turn Practice round, here we go. Turn around Turn around That was pretty good. I'll be honest, I wasn't I don't know if they by Soprano and Alto, Maybe you guys listened to I don't know, but it Okay, this is &quot;Total Eclipse of the Heart&quot; remake based on my time living in a studio apartment with my husband. You guys do all the turn arounds. I'll do everything else. Here we go. I'll start. Turn around Every now and then I And then you ruin it Turn around Every now and then I When I could pee Turn around There you go again How did you get there so fast Weren't you just standing Turn around Oh my God, when will I Where I can have more than one room Where you're not near me when I Zoom Where I don't have to hear you laugh That makes me wanna kick your- Once upon a time I Now feels like a tiny motel There's nothing I can do I'm totally living in hell Nashville, thank you so much. I love you. So, get on my level Get on my level You trying too hard, So, get on my level Don't care what they say, So, get on my level Game up, on my level On my level So, get on my level Get on my level You trying too hard, So, get on my level Don't care what they say, So, get on my level Game up, on my level - Pause for a hug break. You guys, look what I found that my husband was leaving behind, a very nice picture of me. - Just, who cares, right? Tell me for sho - Banzo has not seen it empty yet. When you moved and I got yo Fan base in a bath stall Trying take pics with With some fam y'all No new friends My money tight, no loose ends This creed y'all, that loose ends I build that's more than two miles long, babe. - [Anjelah] You know - It's not, I've seen trains, I've been on trains, - [Anjelah] So what do you So, get on my level Don't care what they say, We out here in the middle Game up, on my level - [Anjelah] If your best are you even best pro-ing? On my level You're not on my level So get on my level - [Anjelah] We made it to Nashville. Get on my level You trying too hard, So, get on my level Don't care what they say, So, get on my level Game up, on my level So, get on my level Get on my level You trying too hard, So, get on my level Don't care what they say,