Translator: Queenie Lee I have what some consider to be I am a mom. (Cheers) (Applause) Yes! Yes! I am a parent to three who magically think I'm a doctor, a baker, a coach, a chef, a therapist and have the patience of a saint 24/7. I truly do my best and some days are definitely especially the part I want what most parents want for my kids. I want them to have a happy childhood. I want them to be free to play, build friendships, grow to be kind, But there seems The World Happiness Report states at any one time over 220 million children and 1 billion adults suffer from anxiety, depression, Not exactly a pretty picture Unfortunately, as adults, this is what our children You see how busy we are every day. They feel our stress, and they watch us struggle How do we go from anxiety Some good news. The World Happiness Report also states the best predictor of whether a child is through their emotional So if I have this right, Happy children, (Laughter) This is the exact lesson When I was a little girl, growing up in the big city every Christmas morning my dad would take my three sisters You see my dad was a doctor It was our job to stand and sing Christmas carols. We started with the same song every time, and my dad, he'd lead the singing. Now, this is probably a TEDx first, (Singing) We wish you a Merry Christmas; we wish you a Merry Christmas (Stops singing) (Cheers) (Applause) You guys are amazing, I am signing you all up for this year. (Laughter) And look at your smiles. We did this every Christmas Those patients, they sing along with us, just like you did. And their smiles, their smiles This is what I learned from our singing. Giving back to those patients, it made them happy, and it made me happy. And we've all heard that giving makes you happy But have you actually thought of why? Well, researchers from all over the world have been studying the science They've discovered that our brains and our bodies When we give, our endorphins kick in, giving us this natural high feeling. They've actually called it Our oxygen levels rise, And for those of you that have been looking it's our body's natural anti-aging remedy. And that feeling I got that's serotonin, But here's the icing on the cake. Our cortisol levels drop. This is our stress hormone. Giving reduces anxiety and stress Now what if I told you, you could be happy every day, In fact, it's so simple Well, on my first son I decided I was going to teach him I was going to teach Nick to give. I introduced the idea &quot;Nick, we are going to start We are going to give back Now I waited to see that excitement that I was feeling - and instead, he says, (Laughter) Oh yeah, not exactly but Nick was just three. I had to approach this daily giving idea Still, I got out some craft paper and I started again: &quot;Nick, we're going to do one thing to a person, an animal, or the planet every day for 365 days.&quot; Now, when I shared this idea they thought I was being, I was going to give back to the world with a three-year-old. I agreed, it seemed like a lot, but not when you start small, Nick and I started a list, had to be easy and close to home. Donate towels and blankets pick up garbage, recycle, give clothes to a favorite charity; Well, Nick quickly caught on, and now he was excited. He was actually so excited he wanted to start So, first stop, down at the local animal shelter When we walked into that shelter you instantly got hit by this smell of somewhere We could hear dogs barking. I knew they were locked in cages; Nick handed our towels and blankets She gave us a big smile Well, as we turned to leave, Nick noticed two big glass doors He went up to that glass and he peered in, and then he turned to me and said, &quot;Mommy, can you see those cats Will our blankets be for those cats?&quot; He turned to the nice lady behind the desk You'd just see Nick's little brain going. He was making the connection that his daily give Nick learned that very first day, as he turned to me &quot;Awesome, Mom,&quot; that giving made him happy. Day two, down at the beach how much garbage could we because that was the attention span (Laughter) Day three, we took that garbage At the ripe old age of three, Well, daily giving quickly just like kind of brushing his teeth. Well, actually come to think of it, it would be easier to teach than it is to brush Nick asked if we could share with our friends and family, so they could follow along. So that very first day I started a blog and I called it 365give. Now, just so you know, I am not a writer so you can imagine how surprised I was when people started reading the blog They started reading and engaging They send me emails and leave comments because they were inspired by Nick. Actually, I was so excited I'm going So, Henry from London, England, wrote: &quot;I walk past the same homeless man Today I brought him breakfast, he was so grateful I stopped, it's going to be my daily give Arwoney from Lira, Uganda: &quot;I took four children that live The children were so happy to have a meal, and for the first time in a long time Amy from Australia: &quot;I'm a grade four teacher, and I started 365give, a daily Well, this one - this one Could you really teach I didn't know, I was just a mom. But as fate has it, I get a call from my good friend Sarah. She's a local elementary school teacher and she says, &quot;Jacqueline, I want to take the 365give concept Actually, my entire school.&quot; Well, we were both so excited, We created an educational program, a tool for teachers that integrates with their curriculum, we called it the 365give challenge. It's unique because it's powered by the kids. They choose how they're going to give, support causes and impact the world We started in Sarah's school, and I actually couldn't wait to hear A few weeks into the challenge, I went down and I met with a grade two class, When I walked into that classroom, I'm not sure who was more excited, me or the kids. First up was Arman, he waved his hand frantically, he just couldn't wait to tell me all about the fresh-baked cookies and delivered to their local firehouse. They want to thank the firefighters Arman was just beaming with pride. Next up was Mia. Well, Mia's little cousin and the kids, the entire class, they decided they were going They raised 252 dollars, over recess, and they donated it to a charity But this is the part because I could never have dreamed that my super fun could cause a ripple to so many. And it's what their teacher, &quot;Jacqueline, my kids are understanding how their actions It's connected them to each other and most importantly, The 365give challenge has now touched and we have only just begun. (Cheers) (Applause) Thank you. (Cheers) (Applause) The kids are sharing their daily and it's creating a ripple into their families, their communities, The challenge was created for kids, doesn't matter where you live, Just imagine if we all did it. It started with just one child that's 365 daily gives. We shared, and it's rippled to right here, with all of you. Now, let's take everybody in this room, over 2,000 people, times 365 daily gives, that is over 700,000 daily gives. It's no longer just one child but each and every one of us creating a better world, a happier world, and it's so simple It's a daily habit, Start your list today, take a look at your life, your world, do what works for you. Donate, volunteer, help a neighbor, This is how we're going to go Together, we can all start small, and we can make the world one give, one day at a time. (Applause) (Cheers) Yes! Yes!