From the day I wrote my first Hello World program, another 2 years to get into Google. That's because bootcamp. I made countless mistakes along the Engineer longer than it should have been. for numerous Udemy courses and spent hundreds of If I could go back in time and undo I would be in the exact same situation as That's exactly why I made this video. Today, you the fastest path to go from a beginner to Before I begin, there are 3 major mistakes that Software Engineer. I will also share these 3 As a new programmer, the first decision you learn?". To answer that question, let's talk about what Number 1, The language should be easy and learning very complex syntax. It should be Next, The programming language should be versatile you don't want to learn a new language for every the language should have great returns Lastly, the programming language should be spelling out the declaration of a new variable or it should be concise and get the job done in already guessed it, Python is the language that as easy as writing in English. It has so many Science and Automation. Python is extremely fast to write when compared with other popular languages. That's because it requires less lines of code for the same amount of code. As an example, here is the same code out with learning Java. I used to do all my coding Python and it improved my interview performance Having said that, Java and other popular have to learn another language at some point I do believe that Python would be Now that we know we should learn Python, let's new programmers make the first major mistake that is that they learn by watching others code. Let learn programming. Most newbies would go to a courses. Then they pick one of these 20+ hours detailed and hence good for them. And then they 20 hours of content is not the same as 20 hours and watch someone else code without ever writing gives them a false sense of progress. That's from actually writing down the code and debugging The answer is very simple, you should Learn by called learnpython.org. On this website, just worry about Data Science tutorials or any Advanced learn advanced concepts right now, you would not applied them on a real world problem. You can the future when you need them for your projects. and then asks you to apply those concepts to a Think about other problems you can solve with in the exercise portion. Once you're done with the In the spirit of learning by coding, we would do it's very hard to do something on your own. go to Youtube and look up this video called "12 which by the way is a great they build 12 beginner Python projects from Tic Tac toe, Minesweeper etc. and all of them the implementation of all these projects step before you start watching this tutorial, there not watch this tutorial casually. Follow along if Software Engineer. To follow along, you would Environment or IDE to build these projects. IDE write and run your code. There are several popular you might want to download VS code and set it Once you have completed this tutorial, you Working on building your own projects will it will introduce you to how Software Engineers will fail and you'll debug it and repeat it a day in the life of a Software Engineer looks of projects by doing this. You can host your This will help you attract recruiters and get own projects will give you confidence that you Engineer. But, what kind of projects should you work on? You can think of any projects that you You can build a Web crawler, or an Alarm clock, or maybe an app that gives you Wikipedia article of the day. Some example projects that I built were a Spam filter, an Algorithmic Now you have a great resume and you are Let's start applying for Software Engineer major mistake new programmers make. You see, in an ideal world, having good programming skills and a great resume is all you should need to become a Software Engineer. But unfortunately for us, tech companies like to play games with us in the interviews. They ask you specific kinds don't prepare for these questions, you might not let's see how to prepare for interviews. All the taught to all Computer Science graduates. This Fortunately for us, Google has created this course best part is that this course is taught in about different algorithms related to searching like maps, trees and graphs. Don't worry if you sure that by the end of this course, you'll be be regular and finish this course. As I mentioned finish them. So, make sure you take small steps make sure you complete all the exercises they give the only way to learn coding is by doing. So, and finish all the assignments. Trust me when entry level jobs, this course is the only more than a hundred thousand dollars on a computer you'll be pretty much on par with someone After completing this course on Data Structures knowledge you need to tackle the interviews. In you need to practice some questions that have been you should use a website called Leetcode. On You can write your code and test your solution beginners because all the questions are tagged If you buy a premium subscription of the website, company that asked them in the past interviews. working on them until you can solve them in on to medium questions.When you start solving for Software Engineering jobs. If you are lucky, it will be a process full of disappointment make the third and the biggest mistake of all, is because they overthink and complicate the they replay the interview over and over in their rejection personally. To avoid this, stay inside outcome of your interviews but never get tangled do your best to crack the interviews but try to you want to learn about how I became a Software watch this video at the top. If you you can watch this other video.