This is shuttle launch control team on a three hours and holding. Here's our commander, Chris Ferguson. He's in the suit up room. He's having a fit check of his helmet. He's our commander on this flight and going over to pilot Doug Hurley. This is his second trip into space. He completed his first spaceflight on STS- 127, and he's logged more than 376 hours in space. And here is mission specialist number one, Sandy Magnus. This is her third space flight. She spent more than four months in space aboard the International Space Station. She flew on STS- 112, logged 11 days in space, and then four and a half months after being on board the space station as a member of the Expedition 18 crew. This is Rex Walheim. He's our mission specialist number two. He's making his third space flight. He spent more than 24 days in space on STS- 110 and has 122. And he's had five spacewalks totaling more than 36 hours. And he's served very effectively as the chief of the EVA branch. So the crew now is finishing their suit up activities and they are scheduled to leave for the launch pad in just about 25 minutes. And here they come. Crew going down the elevator where they'll be greeted by employees from Kennedy Space Center and members of the news media. This is the same elevator that's been used by the astronauts ever since Apollo. And there they go. Escorted by NASA's security - also be a helicopter flying overhead. It's about a 20 minute ride out to launch Pad 39 A. That's a shuttle launch control T minus two hours, 31 minutes, five seconds and counting. The flight crew is now in the white room of the orbiter access arm. Members of the close out crew are in the white coveralls, and the astronauts, of course, are in the orange pressure suits, the close out crew will be assisting the astronauts with their helmets and other equipment as they enter the orbiter. This is an incredibly experienced and dedicated team that gets the people on the orbiter, and Travis is in charge of the whole thing, and not only is he in charge of this one, but he's in charge of the whole whole close out crew. We can see here Chris Ferguson getting put into a seat and the folks that are helping him get in his seat, there are the number two, if you can see the number two on him is Randy Bresnik. He's actually a Marine, a Marine Corps colonel. He's one of our astronauts. You can see him in the one screen. And Randy is actually getting on there to help out with communication structures and all this kind of thing. But the guy running the operation is Drew Billingsley. He's number three. And you can see him kind of climbing all over there. If you look in the view there, you can see Chris Ferguson right in front of us and kind of behind to the right kind of lean over as Randy Bresnik number two and now disappeared from sight is Drew Billingsley. He's called the flight deck crew insertion technician, the one that gets them on the upstairs. Born in Santa Monica, California, and grew up in Huntington Beach, served in the U.S. Army. He's been in this role for a long time. He was the initial suit tech in STS-86. Back in 1997. What they're doing is they go through here is as Chris gets in the seat, there's probably about nine different connections that need to be made both to the vehicle itself as well as within his own gear there. And as you can see, we're pretty much shot as astronauts just hanging back and let them do it. The best thing we can do is let these professionals do their job. So you can see, Chris, it just concentrate on getting his hands out of the way and making sure that draws access to what he's working over. On the right there is this liquid cooling. You've got all the straps that have to come around. It's a five strap harness. You have to get the parachute, which is what you're seeing there. Randy has the close one. And Drew has the far one. You get the parachute straps that are waiting for the person who's already in the seat when you get in. They put those over the side and they connect those and you'll see a real good shot of that right here. You'll see them connected in to the to the straps that Chris is already into, that he can with his arm, his chest strap, everything so that it's connected there. And they're essentially doing all these connections to make sure he's nice in a nice and snug in there and all ready to go. So talked about the two guys in their. Drew is uh - this is be his 11th mission. I'm trying to remember Randy, and this is Randy's first one is the number two. Is this the first time he's actually inside the vehicle doing this, this the setup here so I'm sure he's having a lot of fun. And this looks like Doug Hurley. He has to be Doug Hurley going in Marine colonel. He is fine as a pilot on this flight. This is his second flight flew a few years ago on 127. And he's being helped there. You can see the guys out in the white room. They get everybody ready to go. Number four, there is Rene Aron's. He's another long time member. And by the way, all the guys that we've talked about so far, USA employees, other than Randy Bresnik, of course, he's the astronaut. But Renee has been with the United Space Alliance for a long time. Twenty seven years in the space program. He's been for 40 launches, and he's he's just doing a great job for us. He's been the OVCC. He's actually had Travis Thompson's job. Travis is number one. There's only about three or four people that are qualified to do that job at any one time. And Renee is another one. But in this flight, he's actually flown the number four rule. And so he does a great job with that. He's going to be the hatch technician when they close the hatch and take care of all that stuff. I mentioned that Randy brisling. He's the ASP astronauts, of course, called astronaut support personnel. When when does he get on board? He gets on fairly early. Does he? He does. He comes out and gets everything prepared inside the crew cockpit before the crew gets out there and make sure that all their gear is in place. There's a lot of things they don't bring with them. They don't carry out with them that we take out for them. And I did this job quite a while ago, and there's a lot of things you take out there, get ready. You essentially triple check the cockpit to make sure everything's in place. You can see Drew there working with Chris Fergie's communication gear. That's the white line that's coming down. It's actually from the back of the helmet that connects into the system, but that's the line that communication comes through. So you see that wraps around a couple of times in the black piece of gear we call the hot dog there - that's a quick disconnect. Everything that he's been strapped into the shuttle with has a quick disconnect so they can just pull things instead of having to tightly and do things. Everything just has a quick pull that they can take apart in case they would have to get out if there's some kind of emergency, the pad and instead of launch, they're going to have to get out. There's a bunch of quick disconnects she pulls so they can just for Chris, he would roll to his right dropdown down on the MST2 seat which Drew are not Drew, but Randy Bresnik is kind of on over there on the left. He would drop down on the seat down there and then get out of the vehicle. So that's part of the reason why I take so long is because everything's an intricate thing. You don't want anything to be tangled up. You don't want anything that can slow the crewmember down if they need to get out of the vehicle. So. And this is Sandy Magnus. You saw our mission specialist number one, so when she gets in, I think she's going to be on the flight deck in the aft right seat . Um, I want to. Step six twenty eight. That's correct. We got a good view of it now. They are complete. Doug has gotten in from the middle, and you kind of have to go in through the middle, through the hatch. And in the middle, you kind of take a right about a 90 degree. Right. You have to go through the ladder access, which normally when you're vertical, you'd be climbing the ladder. In this case, you're going right. And then you actually crawl on the aft panels and you can see that Randy is actually standing on the aft panels there as he gets folks ready to get in the vehicle. So we've got things down there to protect the AFT panels. Certain place where you can stand like you noticed, for instance, Randy is not standing on the switches. We can't stand there, but it's kind of intricate. You have to weave your way around. And so you come in the hatch, you turn to your right for about 90 degrees, go about five feet, you drop down to the aft panels, aft lower panels of the flight deck, and then you climb up on the mission specialist to seat, and then you have to get yourself up in the pilot or commander seat. So these are the hardest seats to get into. And it's kind of a monkey bar thing. There's a I grip up there that they grab with their hands and then they put their feet up there and oftentimes you'll see that the technicians either drill or Randy helping them get their feet up there and get all situated. And then the critical thing is, is getting yourself on the parachute correctly. You want to get yourself all the way down in the seat as far as to the seat pan as you can, because the shoulder straps, the parachute can be quite painful if you don't get a little bit those a little bit loose. So got to make sure you're as far down on the seat pan as possible. So you'll see a lot of adjustments here where they're pushing on them and pulling on people and getting them in the right place. And it's kind of a manhandling task, obviously, with the suit. The suit weighs a lot. It usually weighs about 50, 60 pounds. And so they're carrying a lot of extra weight and it's bulky and it's it's hard to get where you want to go. And that's why we have so much extra help in there for these guys, that this job is almost impossible to do yourself on the ground. On orbit, it's pretty easy. I just have to set things up and you're floating. So it's a lot easier. You can move around a lot more readily. And the bulkiness doesn't hurt you nearly as much when you're in zero G GMT and everything you just said is complete ready for IMU platform positioning. Copy that. The next milestone is a check of the orbiter's flight controls. [launch control]. And there will be a steering check of Atlantis's three main engines. We're finding out that the main engines are in their start position. CLS is g for o ET LO2 pressurization. Starting now, the retraction of the gaseous oxygen vent arm, the vent hood. TLT OTC, clear caution warning memory, verify no unexpected errors. Fuel cells going to internal external tank camera being activated at this time. OTC TLT - no unexpected errors. Copy that. Flight crew, OTC, close and lock your visors and initiate O2 flow.. T minus two minutes. [launch control]. Solid rocket booster cameras being activated. Sound suppression water system is being armed. T minus one minute. But oxygen and liquid hydrogen fill and drain valves are closed. T minus 40 seconds, handing off to Atlantis's computers at T minus 31, T minus 35 33 to hold a T minus 31 seconds due to a failure. And we have had a failure. A sequencer [inaudible] Go ahead. We need guys to go do the verification per the LCC, please. All right. Standby. [inaudible] We need to verify using a camera. And we're positioning camera 62 right now. Okay. Let us know when 62 is swung over and you can verify LCC for GVA retrack please. And of course, now we're holding here at 31 seconds while we get a verification that the GVA has fully retracted per our preplan. This is CMC - we verify retracted. OK, and you can verify that is fully retracted per the instructions that we developed, correct? That's correct. All right. And [inaudible] concurs they satisfy the requirement, the GFC 13 prepacked to see I am go. Okay, I copy that. And launch director? Yes, sir, I heard all that and concur. Press on. All right. Very good. [inaudible] Very good. And GLS, do you have concurrence? Go? It's in work. Thank you. Let us know when that's complete. We have it in work. All right, guidance. And just a reminder for folks who are watching that hold time in three minutes and 16 seconds. [inaudible] were ready to go. All right, very good. And launch director, with that clean up, we're going to go ahead and proceed. Yes, sir. Please do. All right. And all personnel, we are going to pick up the clock here momentarily and GLS you can resume the clock on your mark. Copy that. Countdown clock will resume on my mark. Three, two, one, mark. Go for auto sequence start Hand off to Atlantis's computers has occurred and it's not a rocket booster nozzle steering check and work. Twenty. Firing chain is armed. 15. Go for main engine start T minus 10, nine, eight, seven, six. All three engines up and burning, two, one, zero and liftoff, the final liftoff of Atlantis on the shoulders of the space shuttle America will continue the dream. Roger, roll Atlantis. Houston now controlling the flight of Atlantis. The space shuttle spreads its wings one final time for the start of a sentimental journey into history. 24 seconds into the flight roll program, complete Atlantis now heads down wings level on the proper alignment for its eight and a half minute ride to orbit four and a half million pounds of hardware and humans taking aim on the International Space Station. 40 seconds into the flight, the three liquid fuel main engines throttling back to 72 percent of rated performance in the bucket, reducing stress on the shuttle as it goes transonic for the final time. Engines now revving up, standing by for the throttle up call. Atlantis, go at throttle up, no action, DPDT, throttle up, no action on DPDT. That call from CAPCOM Barry Wilmore- a transducer instrumentation only, no action required. Atlantis now 15 miles in altitude already 16 miles downrange from the Kennedy Space Center, one minute, 40 seconds into the flight. Atlantis flexing its muscles one final time. Atlantis traveling almost 2600 miles an hour at 21 miles an altitude, 24 miles downrange, standing by for solid rocket booster separation. Booster officer confirms staging a good, solid rocket booster separation. Guidance now converging the main engines steering the shuttle on a pinpoint path to its preliminary orbit. Two minutes, 20 seconds into the flight. Atlantis already traveling thirty two hundred miles an hour, 35 miles in altitude, 50 miles downrange. The propulsion officer reports the orbital maneuvering system engines have ignited Atlantis, kicking on its afterburners for one minute, 23 seconds for the final phase of powered flight. Atlantis 2 engine tile. 2 engine tile. That call from CAPCOM [inaudible] so the in the event of contingency, you're in plane plus 230 on the [inaudible] page, no com VIs when you're ready to copy. [inaudible] ATO 10. Decimal eight. Press Damico 14. Decimal seven. [inaudible] That's a good read back Atlantis. Because of the slightly late launch time, Capcom Barry Wilmore reading up to pilot Doug Hurley, the updated abort boundaries for Atlantis, which is flying on the singular power of its three liquid fuel main engines, draining a half a ton of fuel per second from the shuttle's large fuel tank. Three and a half minutes into the flight. Atlantis traveling forty two hundred miles an hour. Fifty four miles, an altitude already 120 miles downrange from the Kennedy Space Center. Three good main engines, three good auxiliary power units, three good fuel cells for Atlantis. Atlantis negative return. Negative return, that call from CAPCOM Barry Wilmore indicating that were too high in altitude, too far down range to return to the launch site in the event of an engine failure. However, Atlantis has three engines performing perfectly. Four minutes, 20 seconds into the flight. Atlantis currently traveling fifty five hundred miles an hour, sixty two miles, an altitude almost 200 miles downrange. Four minutes of powered flight remaining. Atlantis speeding straight as an arrow toward its state with the International Space Station Sunday morning. Coming up on the five minute mark. Atlantis now traveling 6,500 miles an hour, sixty six miles an altitude, 250 miles downrange. Atlantis Press to ATO. Press to ATO. That call indicating we can make minimal orbital targets in the event of an engine failure, all three engines continue to function normally. Atlantis will begin its slow roll to a heads up position shortly. Five and a half minutes into the flight, Atlantis traveling 70, 700 miles an hour, 315 miles downrange. Atlantis Single Engine Ops three. Single Engine Ops three. And the guidance officer here in Mission Control confirms that the computers are commanding the main engines to swivel [inaudible]. [inaudible] We've roled to a heads up position now providing better communications to the tracking a data relay satellite system as Atlantis heads uphill. Six minutes, 20 seconds into the flight. Atlantis Press to MECO. Press to MECO. That call indicates that we can make our normal orbital cutoff targets in the event of an engine failure. However, all three main engines continue to function normally nominal. Fergie, go the plus X. Go the pitch. Part of that downplaying go for the plux x, go for the pitch. That call indicating that we will be in good shape for the orientation of Atlantis for external tank photography following main engine cutoff. Now seven minutes into the flight. One minute, 20 seconds till main engine cut, Atlantis traveling 12000 miles an hour. The main engines will soon be throttling down once again to limit the stress on the shuttle and its four crew members to that of three times the effect of gravity. Atlantis currently traveling at a speed of more than four miles a second. One minute of powered flight remaining for Atlantis. Three good main engines, three good auxiliary power units, three good fuel cells. Approaching the eight minute mark into the flight. Atlantis now traveling more than 15,000 miles an hour. Eight minutes, 15 seconds into the flight, standing by for main engine cutoff. That'll be followed a few seconds later by the separation of the external fuel tank. Booster officer confirms main engine cutoff. For the last time, the space shuttle's main engines have fallen silent as the shuttle slips into the final chapter of a storied 30 year adventure. Now standing by for external tank separation. Atlantis off the tank commander Chris Ferguson will be maneuvering Atlantis now into an orientation to enable Sandy Magnus to capture digital still imagery of the external fuel tank as it drifts away. OMES one is not required your preliminary [inaudible] 37 minutes. 37 minutes. No OMES one required. Thanks.