PAUL FREEDMAN: Today transformation of the And I use the somewhat neutral &quot;transformation.&quot; It can be &quot;collapse of the Roman we're talking about the fall Next week we'll talk of the Eastern Empire. From 410 to 480, the Western It was dismembered by barbarian except for the Huns, not That is, they were not intent All they really wanted to do was to share in its wealth and to destroy it. Nevertheless, 476 is the of the Western Empire, because chieftain deposed Nothing very new about this What was new is that this spelled all sorts of different Wickham, it's Odovacer. Sometimes he's known as Odacaer, We aren't even sure tribe he belonged to. A barbarian general deposed Augustulus, who by an the names of both the founder founder of the Roman Empire. The &quot;-us&quot; on the It's a diminutive. So a man with this grandiose And instead of imposing another simply wrote to Constantinople loyal to you. We will recognize you as the however, was far away. And while of symbolic loyalty by Odovacer had no For all intents and purposes, 476, become a collection A kingdom is smaller We use the term empire to mean state ruled from one center, different kinds of pieces. Kings, and the term and title Kings are very powerful, but So there was a king There would be a king of the Roman Gaul. There would be a king later in northern Italy. A king of the Visigoths, first And we'll go over who beginning of next class. For now, we're going to talk consequences. And we're going to around three big questions. One-- why did the west fall apart? And as a corollary to that the external pressure of problems of institutional Did it fall of its own pushed, in other words? Question number two. Or big question number two. Who were these barbarians? And how Romanised or how And that's what we're going to next class. And three, does this shift to another civilization, of the prevailing form of prolonged period of what used The Dark Ages-- roughly the sixth to This is a term we don't It implies a value judgment necessarily accurate, but also point of view of what are good are bad periods in history. But I'd like to just probe this That is, how severe a So is it the end of the Apes or Blade Runner, or images we have? Or is it merely a shift in Roman institutions such as the infrastructure-- the emperor, the consoles, the forth-- while that collapses? A medieval historian named Roger The Early Middle Ages writes, in the west was not the civilization. It was merely the breakdown of could no longer be sustained.&quot; The destruction of the Roman mean that the Roman state ceased everything else continued. But really, the question is, in the absence of a state and The destruction of the political after all, the destruction When we opened this class, we built on such things as the maintenance of peace. These are no longer possible governmental structure. As we'll say a little later, to know that it was the end. Because for a while, things People were speaking Latin, they the cities were much less they were still there; there were still poor people. In retrospect, though, things really did change. How much they changed is the controversy. The world of the late Roman speaking, between catastrophists continuists. As you may guess, the of the Roman Empire--, whether reasons to date it, really, learn in next week. Between 450 and 550, a A civilization was wiped out. And really, if not literally a more war-like, more illiterate, period was ushered in. The disappearance of ancient knew from that lost Hortensius Augustine was so fond of, to had been known to the I can't remember exactly how but it's something 60, and we have three. So the disappearance of text. The end of literacy, except for the Christian clergy. A more primitive architecture. The end of grand civic projects coliseums, theaters, baths. A more isolated society without A diminished population spread engaged in subsistence. Hence, the, if not end diminution of trade. The continuists, people like see the political changes as essentially surface phenomena and partly on a more sympathetic Christian practices. In other words, they don't think of churches, saints, cults, primitiveness. So based on both archaeology Christianity, these continuists survival of trade, the role of officials, as replacing The Roman political order may staffing by lay people and bishops were now the The bishops would now do things supply, rally the local invasions, educate And the barbarian kings success, to perpetuate They collect taxes, that may or may not They engage in some kind of maintenance of order. The civilization of the sixth comes to be considered Western Western Roman Empire, is not primitive than the late Thus, the continuists. My own position, but I don't that of a moderate something really happened; I it didn't happen all 476 is not the year It is a process. I'm fascinated by the degree to not aware of the cataclysm, believe there is a cataclysm. Wickham, the author of this book The Inheritance of Rome, Chris as you've seen. His chapter that you were to &quot;Crisis and Continuity: 400 to chapter title like that, frustrating. Which is it, dude? He's the leading medieval speaking world. He is Chichele Professor And if that doesn't sound lot to impress you. He's a very great historian, that chapter title. As I said, I would emphasize Well, let's ask what happened, involvement of the barbarians entrance into the empire. We're using the term to the Greek term applied People outside but The Greeks defined barbarians their speech, which sounded to of the fact that People who lead settled lives Nomads almost extinct in our geographical regions and were moved to around to people who They didn't live in cities, were nomadic or not. Barbarians were illiterate. This is the Greek idea In the case of Rome, there is barbarian society. We can say that Rome was not very fierce, group And I use enemies in The Romans perceived them as perceived Rome as simply But there is no Mongol horde They're not that frightening. The Romans had known Most of them were even Christians, OK. They're Arians, A-R-I-A-N-S, I unfamiliar, again, even They've been at the borders of Like most empires, Rome was at and on the other hand thought It maintained the Danube-Rhine frontier, every so often punish German tribes who frontiers of the empire. But generally speaking, the what they perceived, somewhat forests inhabited by The continuists argue, with some and 600 what changed was not conquered a civilized state, Mongols conquered China in the the ancient world became That is, an urban culture A Latin culture became Pagan society became Having said this, it's most dramatic event to the fifth who had been outside the If we ask why the Western Empire most immediate answer is it confederations, tribes. They came not so much as recruits, or as allies, So rather than as guys with and slashing and burning, they maybe doing some hacking, military recruits; and Again, not without a certain and slashing and burning. But not a cataclysmic amount. They admired Rome. They wanted to continue They regarded Rome as a The last thing they wanted was in the forest. They were not the bringers They were not even that tens of thousands. Nevertheless, they ended Roman changes we've already depopulation, decentralization, ruralization-- a less cultivated, less centered society. So I want to begin the the changes in the Roman army. We saw that Diocletian, around government, pays for the, military presence of the the taxation system. So the twin pillars of the are army and taxation, the governmental apparatus. The army was a problem recruiting of soldiers. This may have to do with the with the unattractive nature nevertheless there was already, century, a tendency to get the the army as Roman soldiers. Because they were available, this may seem odd. Why hire your potential But there's a lot Very often, empires don't really own manpower. And the people who are the best people who may, in the future, I don't want to pursue this Mujahidiee were trained by they were opposed to the Afghanistan. As it happened, in retrospect, consequences. But at the time, it seemed So in the 370s a group called admitted to the Roman Empire In other words, the whole group the Romans. And federati is the term given under the Roman Empire. Why were they on the move? These are not really They don't live in yurts or They tend to be settled They have dairy cattle rather sheep, or something like. They're pretty settled. Nevertheless, in 378, they And we don't know why. Some enemy pushing them into what's now Romania? It may be the weakness They may have seen that the made a proposition, kind You don't seem to be doing so finances, so we're going to i.e., our soldiers. They also may have Certainly, once they crossed the rather inept in feeding them, Visigoths rebelled. Thus far, nothing What really was new was that the to suppress them. And rather to his surprise and Valens was defeated at the Defeated by the barbarians. Yeah. STUDENT: So, being involved in get from the Roman Empire? Did they agree to fight for them PROFESSOR: They they got a combination of land, or territory, and some in kind and or money. The question was about what the got out of this deal. Or were supposed to get. The defeat at Valens was not because, even though he was though it sent shock waves fact, it would not be this area barbarians--, the East. Romania, be part of the Eastern Empire. And indeed, both Adrianople the the even greater city, would to take them. In 382, the Visigoths were they were allowed to settle in And in fact, they were the Roman Empire in What this does show, barbarization of the army. And another aspect of that is commanded now more and more These barbarian generals, at magister militum-- master of the soldiers. So I'm using the term &quot;general&quot; one, since that's what These magistri were powerful of German or other tribal name of, or behind the throne They couldn't be emperors years, it was impossible to But they held more power Two of these generals, war and Alaric. Stilicho was a Vandal Alaric Alaric wanted territory, food, The Visigoths were moving from eventually into Italy. Stilicho played a kind of game him in check in the name of the negotiating with him. The emperors moved from Milan little bit to the east. Ravenna, marshes and impossible for This is the last capital of Kind of romantic and mysterious, place to end up. These are the Visigoths then, 390s and the 400s. Eventually, Stilicho would be of the West and Alaric plunder Rome in 410. It was the Visigoths who of Rome that so shocked contemporaries. Where, you might be asking was the Roman army? Alaric was wandering around the decades before he sacked Rome. The army, which had consumed the Roman Empire, is curiously fifth century. This is not the Eastern This is something altogether empire that expended treasure on its army. Its army seems to be invisible or that fact supports to some the Roman Empire collapsed of since we don't see it losing barbarians. Or maybe the army doesn't indistinguishable from The army is the invaders. Creepier. Now within this, there are the Huns. The Huns are kind of nomadic. OK, they didn't actually cook between their thigh and the heat of the horse heated This is a widespread myth The Chinese say this about Romans about Huns. But they were pretty mean. They were interested Empire mostly for plunder. And they didn't care if that because they weren't thinking they may have frightened the stood between them and In the 450s the Huns were leadership of Attila. And Attila certainly threatened first, but the Eastern emperor discontinued tribute to them, see repeated again and again, Constantinople was too tough. That the Eastern Empire as a more or less controlled was too well guarded. And they turned to Not as rich maybe, but They show up in Gaul in 450. They were defeated Visigoths allied with Romans. They then went to Italy. They went into the heart of the the northeast of Italy, The emperor is holed basically shuts the door, gets it to go away. The one power of Italy willing the Bishop of Rome, whom we we're going to be hearing And indeed, in the course that The Bishop of Rome-- the pope. Pope Leo I, along with two senate, goes up to northern Attila, to visit the leader of try to get him to stop Whether they were successful because Attila died shortly hemorrhage. And with his charismatic an end as a military force. That is, with the end of his had as imposing a military disintegrated. What's significant is that it's over what we would think of responsibilities. And this will be a pattern, not papal power, but in the way in take over many of the roles After this, the barbarian effect, take charge. The Huns are defeated, but pour into the empire. The Vandals have taken over 430, cutting off the grain They are unusual among the have a navy. They know how to use boats, and city of Rome in 455 in a sack than that of 410. By 470, the Visigoths control southern France; a group called the Vandals in North Africa; a what's now Hungary; the Angles All that effectively remained Odovacer overthrew Romulus And in 476, that's it. A little coda, however. In 493, the Eastern emperor in Ostrogoths to get out of Eastern Empire, and take Once again, the Eastern Empire barbarians into the west, So in 493, our friend Odovacer Ostrogoths and their So what's the impact On the ground, if you were you would see a kind The Roman elite accommodated with, negotiated with, So, for example, a member of a man named Sidonius Apollinaris bishop and a great landowner. And we have a lot of letters of negotiations with the Visigothic He found the Vsigoths uncouth, knowledgeable of the Latin frightening, either. Not particularly formidable. So accommodation, We have a saint's life that saint, a man named-- I'm sorry that I'm writing on Usually, as you know, I'm a But these are great names. And some of them are good cats Severinus of Noricum. You know, &quot;Stop scratching the kind of thing. Severinus of Noricum. A saint in what's now, more His life tells us that he Roman Empire this way: &quot;At the time when the Roman the soldiers of many towns were to guard the frontier. When this arrangement ceased, dissolved, and the frontier The garrison of Passau, which Bavaria, the garrison however, still held out. Some of the men had gone to comrades their last payment.&quot; This resembles a corporation-- somebody, actually, was telling worked for Eastern Airlines, business in 1990. And so sudden was the collapse been predicted, that she was a get on another airline She lived in New York; she was exist. So these soldiers are They want to get their They were never heard Nobody knew that they, in barbarians on the way. &quot;One day, when Saint Severinus suddenly closed the book The river, he said, was now At that moment the news arrived been washed ashore Interestingly enough, he his cell and pray. He starts to organize He is active, although some of poor relief. He deals with the local the Alamanni, remonstrates He helps in diverting Again, like Pope Leo, we have a this case somebody that you indeed had been living like a over the responsibilities for a civilian government. That is then one of the forms Another aspect of this era, The urban population declines. The society and economy euphemistically calls, simplification.&quot; The term on page 95 and 105. &quot;Radical material your standard of living Cruder ceramics. Instead of that nice, north got mud that you Fewer imports, no pepper. More homemade, crude Fewer luxury goods. The Vandal control of North Roman wheat supply. The countryside of Rome had not the city since 200 BC. So for 600 years, minimum, Rome sources of supply. Southern Italy, Sicily, The moment the Vandals cut the longer support its massive could not feed everybody. When you multiply this surprise that the city's decline that the society becomes more subsistent And here's where I think Collins merely a political decline. Without a government and could not take place on the And without that trade, cities There is no denying a decline population. Let's just look at Roman things like pork supply figures, mean, nobody took a We don't really know exactly how any given time. But historians and things like food supply, public delivery figures, for aqueducts, of houses and of Probably in 5 BC, the Roman That would be a fairly Maybe as much as a million, 5 BC. Yeah? STUDENT: This is just PROFESSOR: Yes, just the city of Rome. At the time of Constantine, course, more or less, in the population had declined After the sack of Rome in 419, Obviously, these are But after the sack of Rome, population that had existed With the end of grain shipments we don't really know We can estimate that by 590, than 150,000 people in Rome. This is after not only the catastrophic war in Italy Emperor Justinian, who we'll In 800, on Christmas Day, Saint Peter's in Rome as Roman whose implications we will the end of the class. On that day, Rome must've had optimistic estimate, This does not necessarily mean they were living in the People built houses in there. They used the walls of the There is a certain Planet of Rome, still to this day, is even though it is a city three million people. As I said, people were aware of this change. For example, lots of churches some of them have mosaic about the grandeur of the Roman classical kind of mottos. But then again, people often happening to them. I mean, what if somebody in the that New Haven, in 1920, had far than it does now? New Haven lost a third between 1950 and 1980. What if some future historian that in order to get into Yale a know Greek and Latin. If you look at what those study, or were responsible extraordinary. It's not very impressive in the of the humanities, if by decline knowledge of classical Somebody may decide in a few Ages began in about 1950. And that those pathetic people their little technological nonetheless didn't know Now I don't actually There are some people who do. There's a philosopher at Notre who really believes that the ago, and we simply don't know. We simply refuse to I was impressed by an obituary Fermor, who died at the age This is the last of the great twentieth century. He not only was classically Greece, lived in Greece, he, in himself as a Greek shepherd in of a German general, and the three weeks of hiking through British destroyer. It's in a movie called Ill Met to check this out. Not a great movie, but-- Patrick Leigh Fermor also projected three about walking or, Baghdad actually, I But the obituary describes a German general, whom he is And the general at one point, wilderness, quotes a line from then Patrick Leigh Fermor indeed, quotes the Well, that world is over. That world is over. I don't pretend to be part And that's a world that would Horace, or the years after of Augustus. This would have existed in 300 A least, in a few monasteries It would have flourished in the and nineteenth and early So again, I don't think that What came to an end was a of society. It has some heirs, however, There are four heirs to One is the Byzantine Empire, which calls itself It doesn't call itself the the Byzantine, it calls itself it does so in Greek. The second heir are the We'll be talking about They are attempting to prop up civilization, and material The third heir in some ways, is seventh century, the century And the fourth heir Even though the Church grew up Empire, it will preserve Latin, classical civilization. OK. So barbarians on Wednesday.