Sony Pictures Entertainment is reeling from what may be the biggest and most devastating computer hacking in Hollywood's history. Hackers attacked in waves. First, crippling Sony's internal systems, then leaking five Sony movies online. Today, the U.S. government pointed the finger of blame for the devastating cyber Sony pulling the plug on the interview, saying it will not show about an assassination attempt The Sony Pictures hacking because it was an attack What we had been building, in terms of our and our ability to had been disrupted by a country that we North Korea has reportedly made attempts to steal Covid-19 vaccine technology by hacking pharmaceutical giant Pfizer. The Justice Department has charged three North Korean hackers over a wide-ranging scheme of billions of dollars Despite so many attacks there was not much known about the people behind And my aim was to reveal what they are like, what and on what their dreams and fears were. My name is Sam Kim. I'm a reporter for Bloomberg News, and I wrote a story for Businessweek about North Korean hackers. My story is about people who to countries like China spy on enemies and make money. North Korea's cyber abilities with a lot of students going to countries like Russia, China and even It was aimed at improving the productivity of factories at home. But in some time in the 1980s and 1990s, the current leader Kim Jong thought that it would be a an army of people who could So they began this team of basically hackers, who would spy for the North Korean regime and also go out there and make I think Kim Jong Un takes the than his father. He also enjoys a bit of You know, he's often shown where on the desk, there's a Mac computer. He understands the He understands the importance to improve productivity of his economy. North Korea is an isolated country with its economy pretty It's been under increasing from the U.S. and the It does not have the resources and money to build the kind of conventional weapons that other countries are able to build. So what happens is its resources on building which experts call basically It's the kind of weapons an instant edge. Think of cyber-hacking abilities in that context. It doesn't But if you have the right people, and if you have the right training, you are able to cultivate an to penetrate into computer And that's what North Korea is after. But if you consider the about 1,000 IP addresses and many of them are basically loaned from Chinese communications companies, you can kind of tell why send its hackers abroad rather What's the matter with Well, first of all, it would mean would have to be coming which could risk exposing the government and the people to whatever So there they're sending and other countries where But at the same time, and also because they have in countries like these, like China, they're able to regulate and But formally, North Korea denies engaging in hacking and describes accusations to that effect as enemy propaganda. It took me at least half a year to track down these people. It felt like a wild goose because, see, a lot of are protected by the But at the end, I was able to find a person to the North Korean-defected And then, I was also able to gain access to the people who had actually for North Korea before And Jong is one of them. Jong actually is not a real name. I knew before meeting Jong But when I actually met him, he looked at least a decade older. He wouldn't open up. I mean, it took me, I think at least an hour to make sure that he would share When he was first sent to China, he was a student studying near the border with North Korea. And he came back and realized to do in China because he had and he asked that he'd And there was also recruitment going on for people who would actually but really hacking for North Korea. So, he applied and he got the job. Once he got to the border, And from there, he took a bus. And then when he arrived at the station that he would spend years in later, he learned that that three-story building in the heart of the city for free actually by a Chinese man who had business ties in North Korea. There were actually two They all said that they go programmers, and clients from and give them orders, Some of the jobs given to commercially successful And once he was able to open that up, he replicated that program which his client would repackage as a whole different product He also created what we now call bots. There are very popular online games, including Lineage. He would create a bot that without any supervision from the user and basically trade items He would grow that bot on Lineage, and sell it for almost $100. Another defector said the wired primarily via PayPal to because they were the to legitimate bank accounts. Jong had to make at least $100,000 a year, and he doesn't get to keep most of it. Actually, most of the to the North Korean regime. But if you don't meet the quota, the minders will make sure that they'll put enough pressure on you. And if that happens repeatedly, you will face the growing Among the three people that I spoke to, there's a common thing which is that on every Saturday, they have to do this propaganda session, which is basically about gathering all of the hackers together into a room, and they have whatever lines come from Pyongyang, about the Kim family, about socialism. If you're especially someone that's stressful. One person actually was What he heard about North Korea once he was in China during he's just couldn't take it. Jong was a senior member of and he was good at Chinese as well. Whenever the senior North from North Korea to check on Jong would accompany that official. He doesn't provide me details, but he calls it &quot;unsavory between him and an official And that altercation prompted him to defect. But there was no one that he He would in disguise roam around China. He told me that he actually enjoyed it. He actually enjoyed the not being known to anybody, just roaming around a How did he make the money He did the same thing he did, you know, at the North Korean unit. He would take orders. He would reverse engineer But at one point, he said he all of a sudden. It just, he wanted to find a place where he could just settle down. And he contacted South Korean authorities. Now, he lives in Korea. He met a woman here. You know, last time I He worked for a software company, ironically an antivirus company. What keeps coming up in my head, even long after I spoke to these people, is there was one common thing about them, which was the sense of disillusionment. Once they had access once they were able to there was a spark. And once they realized between what they think and what North Korea is telling that's when the spark gets bigger. That little fire is what to decide to leave. Even if it takes a huge