PETER: The over one hour long is posted on my Patreon page. The link is below in the description. country Good morning, guys. Greater Los Angeles, in this massive basin. Pretty much every culture, including cowboys. And I'm not talking about near I'm talking about cowboys So let's go meet these guys. I don't know how they're doing it. Cowboying in Compton. Let's do this. country PETER: Here we are, guys, The guys told me come in the back here. [nervous] And we have a German... That's a good sign. Hector? -Hey, Peter. -This is the pad? Got a lot more to see on that end. PETER: All right, And just to refresh us all, [rooster crowing] PETER: Rogelio, right? What's up, Peter, how you doing? JOHAN: Welcome... Johan. ROGELIO: In the community I think there's about 400 homes. It's the only place in all of LA County So you can have your horses, your cows, and you won't find that [roosters crowing] PETER: You're all teachers, right? So why are you doing this too? -It's a passion, man. -It really is, it comes from a passion. That's Rubio by the way, -Rubio? She's the first horse I officially owned. -And we're hoping that through we're able to create those opportunities, -And Connecting Compton, What we're gonna get into today. Well, we'll learn along the way today. -But the basic nuts and bolts of it is... ...helping kids who might not have -Yeah. -Find a passion or meaning Is that... Do I got that right? -Yes, of course. We want to be able to give these kids, A lot of times they find themselves lost and hopefully we're able to help with that. -And also involve them in our community So if we're able to pay that forward -Okay, so 99% of Los Angeles has no clue -I would say that confidently. PETER: Are we hitting the streets, guys? JOHAN: Of course, man. -That's what we got right here in Compton. -I'm interested to see how this plays out. HECTOR: Because we don't get they don't see a lot of puddles they're bombproof when it comes to cars. ice cream trucks, loud noises, Then they see some puddles and they're like, PETER: Okay, so totally urban horses? -Snow would freak them out? Of course, they would get scared of maybe others are accustomed to. -But they're okay with -They're okay with all that stuff, yep. Tupac with the subwoofers, no problem. PETER: Just another day ROGELIO: This neighborhood because horses, naturally, just calm everything. Kids will come running out of the houses, PETER: Oh, right. -If there's gang beef, It's no problem 'cause obviously People want to come see the horse, So it's all good. PETER: So the horse diffuses -Yeah, definitely. Danny has my horse ready. DANIEL: That's it. I told the guys I don't ride horses. -His name is Papas. -Papas? -I don't ride horses so they're like, So if I never have kids, this is All right, you guys ready? country [hooves on pavement] -Juan Dominguez owned the majority and in agreement with Reverend Compton that this stay zoned agricultural because it was actually It had farms, it had a water well. Still has its own natural water well. It's a really nicely developed city it's gone unmaintained for decades. DANIEL: So the water well So the city made a deal -Okay. -So they were gonna upgrade our streets, if we would unite They did it and guess what, -Hello. PETER: I see a lot of smiles but does anyone get pissed off -No. You know what though, there's, like, there is people who are very disrespectful. This street right now, Greenleaf, -Yeah. -They literally try At night time it's dangerous that you're riding a horse. -Do you ride at night? ROGELIO: One of the bad things though I don't know if you've seen it but they do street takeovers -I've seen those, yeah. So they do them in these intersections really haven't had -They just let them go these days? -It's just untouched at this point. -Oh, God. -It's deemed too risky We ride our horses around town. We have our families out. Kids that are, you know, five, six, and unfortunately the City of Compton with the Sheriff's department right now -There's beef between the two? I don't know if the defund the police But we see less presence -Do people here want more cops or less? -Depends who you ask. -If you ask an older person If you're gonna ask a teen -Right. -But in general, there's already Not that it's needed. It's safe and chill. -It's safe? -This part. -So even Compton itself, from one part to the next? -Yeah, 'cause I don't think Compton, Long Beach, these are huge cities. There's pockets of Compton The residents and everyone But they're obviously PETER: Thank you, ma'am. She's lovin' it. -She was all smiles. Check out the artwork PETER: Artwork, where? Oh yeah, cool. So it's just really embedded ROGELIO: This is what it is, yeah. -So what's the ethnic makeup -Majority, like off of the census, in the City of Compton. -More than black? And it's just a working class You know, what we've seen and then And so a lot of the people here They have Saturday and Sunday off with their families, with their horses, and then get right back to the grind, [Rogelio coughs] [Truck revs engine] -What's he doing? PETER: He's flexing a little bit. [Peter laughs] PETER: That was a good old man joke, [Rogelio laughs] PETER: He's flexing. -So in Richland Farms The house itself for the square footage but in Richland Farms, and you have the more space. They're getting closer These here are sitting on more than DANIEL: Yeah, from a third and up. -And they're a million dollars. They're not hitting a million dollars, -So if people have their mortgages -It's not really that, you really have -Well they're only a millionaire -Our group has made sure that, &quot;Hey guys, do not sell your property.&quot; &quot;Be part of its growth.&quot; We wanna improve it. -Because we want to have -So there's a big challenge and keeping it going the next generations? HECTOR: Most definitely. -The few times I've been to Compton, you know, apart from the sirens is the community. Everyone seems very cool. Like, neighbors seem to know neighbors. I'm sure there's all sorts of problems It's just always been not a bad vibe. MAN: Buenos dias. PETER: What are you getting out of that? Is it like camaraderie with your bros? Is it just like chill time or what is it? -I think more than anything it's a connection Everybody needs to meditate. Everybody needs to kind of like wind down and find something -Sure. -And find ways to take a step back And horses are, you know, Who doesn't like riding horses, man? -Me, I'm the one guy, sorry man. Hey, but bikes are Seriously, I love riding bikes. -Yeah. -So similar thing, -We all do. Mental health is big nowadays, you know? And often times, like for example, to go and see a therapist What I need... I feel like -Gotcha. -Yeah, it's different for everyone. -What do you guys think of the horses -Yeah, it's cool. [speaking Spanish] PETER: You want to ride the horse? -No ride, not yet. PETER: Manana, manana. -Yeah, tomorrow. PETER: Mora, you got anything to say? PETER: The horse is the ultimate diffuser. -It really is. -She saw the horse. HECTOR: They break barriers. PETER: Maybe that moment ends here soon. -Oh, that's... -It's funny because -Is the poop? The poop itself dissipates. It's there now, it won't be there, PETER: Daniel, what's up with the graffiti? Is that a gang or what is that? DANIEL: Honestly, I don't recognize that. ROGELIO: You're desensitized to it where you kind of don't even... We're out of that age range too. I think when you're in high school, Where to be, where not to be and we're not in that phase, you know? -Do you feel like the Bloods and Crips -Yes. -It's pretty strong still? -It's still a thing. -It's not a thing for us in our community But our friends, Someone's dying on a weekly basis and it's like, dang, it's crazy. -But you guys, they're doing their thing, DANIEL: Yes, it's separate. They respect the whole lifestyle, [hooves on pavement] PETER: Daniel, do you ever -I think this is my first time. I could race you too if you like. -You wanna race? -Let's do it. -I'm a little scared [metal clanking] There it goes, there goes the chain. I think I beat Peter right now. -I think I woulda won, man. -Childhood memories, man, Putting the chain back on the bike. -Of course. ice cream truck music All right, guys, hard to convey into words like nowhere else in the world. Nowhere that I've seen. It just wouldn't be able The different cultures mixed in. The Southern California climate. The randomness of the ice cream truck. This is what I say in so many of my videos. What a crazy country, right? Just even in this city alone, most people here have never You have different worlds within the city and then you start going That could be somewhere in Alaska, or the Northeast, and there's just so much That's what gets me fired up So let's get back to it. ice cream truck music [Spanish] ice cream truck music PETER: So guys, as a non-cowboy and someone who's not gonna ride a horse I would think you guys would be craving Do you dream everyday of, say, &quot;...way up in Montana Is that something you want -Not me. -I personally would, you know? But there's that inner-city, you know? And then just growing up in the city that kind of makes it Because at the end of the day and if we're able to have You know, even better. -Our project is evident of that. Like we want to create spaces run out, enjoy ourselves, and in the current situation we're out in the concrete PETER: How about you, Daniel? -Well... PETER: You wouldn't get -No, you wouldn't My experience here is So, like, my family migrated here. They bought their home here So luckily I was able to learn and they preserved their culture here. So I think it's any cowboy's dream and have all that property and their ranching-style life and to drive along in the scenery. But... I guess we're Californians, man. You know, we're from LA. So we love it here. We have the beach, PETER: It's January. And we're not dealing So I think it's awesome and that the city of Compton has this area -So if you guys rode these horses or wherever else, Inglewood. Would the law... Would there be a problem? -I haven't heard of anyone I do see people out In the city that I grew up in, Lennox, Tons of horses, and those people So I see it all over and I don't think the cops -Okay, if you rode [Hector to Rogelio] Be careful. PETER: Wow, that's the urban challenge. So if you rode into Downtown Los Angeles? -Yeah, we have a buddy He gets his trailer and he goes everywhere and he'll go to Downtown. He'll go to spots with a nightlife and he'll go out, PETER: All right, guys. -This is known as the Compton campfire site and it's gone like that for a couple years. Connecting Compton's to build an equestrian center on a former landfill that's just a bit... but in the immediate we'd like to offer... And we are planning on We're educators, the three of us. We graduated together. And we want to focus on our students And we've asked the city. We want to potentially start negotiating on either the purchase release so that we can start programming. We want to also open up a rodeo team He's Compton's rodeo champion. He's working very hard. We also have other people but he's gonna be our coach. We're also going to start a Charro program and we're also gonna start PETER: What's a charro program? -So go ahead, you can explain -The sport of charreria is the Mexican... -Okay. -And they focus more on roping. They do a lot of tricks It's a lot of horse etiquette So there's different categories. -Do you guys want just Mexicans What's the goal? -We're very much about servicing in learning more about horses. Like for example, it's easily over 70% of Latinos but we'll have African Americans here, We had the second largest population here in the city of Compton. -Obviously we have Filipinos. We have all people of all backgrounds. We want people to be able to come by. Boys, girls, open to families, children and we're doing this PETER: Who owns this now, the city? ROGELIO: The City of Compton. PETER: And it's just sitting here So the horses never really fully -We do on the actual channel trail we already know the condition of it, and Hector almost died about a year ago fell over and thanks to the little fence, PETER: Oh, this mud, right? PETER: Yeah, that's serious. Like so many of these days, Like a rough outline. &quot;Let's go shoot some cowboys in Compton.&quot; And then the adventure unfolds. And so all this info is new to me We learn something together, Is we get into a different lifestyle Unless really actively looking for it There's always something All right, but we made it, that was easy. [bicycle banging] PETER: Is this your restaurant, Mr. Cliff? -Oh great, how long have you been here? -Since '92. -How's it going? -Fantastic? I'm the burrito king. -Burrito king? Any kind of burrito you want, I have it. -So Mr. Cliff, -Well, I've had multiple businesses. -I've been in business since 1975. -What's your advice -Be willing to work, be honest, Don't mind working. If you don't mind working, but if you do mind working, -So even Compton right now in these times -Sh*t, there's lots of opportunity, Whatever you're good at, then that's what you do. If you do that, Every day you come out... You good at taking pictures, -That's what I love. It took me a while to find it though, How are you with the horses coming up? I love the community, -Very solid community in Compton? -Everyone sort of gets along? Obviously there's violence -The violence and crime You could think it is -It's not like the '90s, right? -That was pretty hardcore here, right? But it's good, it's good. We got past that and we're gonna also -There's a little spike right now? -It's a little spike right now Like I said, and I haven't had a problem. -Never? I thank God for that. I thank the community for that. They respect me. I put out a good product. I treat everybody fair. And I try to keep a clean, friendly place. PETER: Mr. Cliff, can I ask you a question? -Compton is 70% Latino now, right? -I would go so far to say 80%. -How is the relations between everyone? -I think it's a good mix of people We just have to learn to understand We all wanna raise our kids. We all want to have a spot to have a job. We want to have a home. We all want the same thing, -And a good burrito? -You gotta get one of our soul man burgers. -Pastrami, ground beef patty, That'll be good for you. So let's give this a try. PETER: I went all in, Yeah. What are you ladies getting? -We getting the carne asada burrito. -You won the award this year? -No. -I got husband of the year award, So my wife said for a day. Can I film your t-shirt? WOMAN: Okay, I like that, you need Jesus. [all laughing] PETER: You guys got WOMAN: Where you get that one from? WOMAN: Okay. -This is Mr. Cliff's special fish plate. Nice flaky fish, look at that. Medley of vegetables, some beans. HECTOR: Some real food, man. PETER: Solid Mr. Cliff soul food. Right here in a nice space. PETER: So I was asking Hector &quot;What's the deal with horses? and he came up with It's sort of like therapy. What do you guys get out of it, -When I first got on a horse I learned with a buddy of mine but he put me on a bucking bronco. So immediately, my first class was And immediately, I had a different level of confidence Like, in general. -In life? Because I managed to stay on. I take in that same mindset Like, you know, but... The horse, what I've learned is they're gonna reflect that same energy. -Okay. -So if I feel afraid about something, their behavior is gonna show it, it's just like a big mirror now -Interesting. What about you Daniel? -So I was pretty much We all have our problems in life, So once you get on your horse, You forget about everything. -When we did our event in Cayenta, they asked us a question, Everybody on the panel, all the cowboys had a similar answer. There's dignity in the life that you live. Work ethic, And you don't have the give up attitude. You can't give up when you're with the animals You give up, and so the mentality regardless of what comes in front of you, that's definitely one of those things. That you get to live and learn when DANIEL: A lot of responsibility too. Like my parents always, &quot;Rain or shine, you had to be out there.&quot; They used to always tell me, -Okay. -Horses don't feed themselves, you know? So, you know, So you have to go feed them first, or whatever you have to do. It's a lot of responsibility. -If animals talked... [chuckles] Man, that'd be amazing, huh? PETER: Mmm, so good. -Yeah, man. -Mm-hmm. PETER: What's your name? -Joshua, nice to meet you. You too, Joshua. How long's your son been a cowboy for? MAN: All his life. PETER: From day one? -Since I was one, day one, -You were born ready? People that are not from Compton, &quot;Oh, Compton's all about gang violence.&quot; but, like, if you look at us, You know what I mean? -You live in Compton? -Okay. -So you're not feeling the gang culture, -The streets raised us Chris Cox, have you heard the name? -He's a very, very, very famous wrangler, He actually invited me to his ranch and he's, like, professional -You've been going up to Wyoming? DANIEL: Hold this horse for me, PETER: What do you think of All the work that it takes. -Just it's a lot of work you have to reach for it. And cowboys... They love their work, but cowgirls especially, and I love And I just gotta reach for it. And if, like... Work, at the end of the day, you're tired. At the next morning when the roosters crow, and do the same thing. ROGELIO: Josh is one of those kids that you know they're gonna accomplish Josh just has such a great character. -He's a little cowboy out here. -So did you get him into this What I did was we bought him Woody PJ, -Okay. -And he was like, &quot;I'm a cowboy.&quot; He wore that day and night. And then he just started riding. -Now he's hanging out on ranches -Yes, sir. PETER: That's your buddy on the dirt bike? -What were you saying about Arabic? -No, just a little bit of stuff, I try to know a little bit Never know where the job takes you, -Where the job takes you? You ready for that? -Oh yeah, I've been ready. I'm already hitting it. People are already getting jobs. Like at In-N-Out, around 18, 16, something like that. A cowboy, if you're really into it, you can start at the age of six. If I needed to get a job, -15 ranches? -Across the US? -Leave my legs open? Get a little closer, that's fine. Just hold it right there. [horse grunts] [excited yelling] DANIEL: Watch out, watch out. [excited yelling] [laughter] PETER: I'm getting back. ROGELIO: You gotta work 'em. PETER: So the horse didn't like two people. -I've noticed that whenever once I get her back -So he's just bringing his horse ROGELIO: Right, so what he's doing, Turning left, turning right, And so... Reminding them who's boss. So not only do you have to make sure and it was their ultimate decision, and make sure you remind them PETER: Daniel, -Hey, you know -C'mon. -Kevin Costner was born here? -Yep and went to school in Inglewood. -Learn something new every day. [hooves on concrete] hip hop playing on a boom box Daniel was saying ROGELIO: George W. Bush. When he was a kid, -It's a call to action. Mr. Costner, Love to let you know PETER: You need Costner to come down here. -We'd love to have Costner on board. -Is he an inspiration to cowboys? Especially with the whole Yellowstone and all his movies in the past I think he's cemented and I think he lives up to that. -Yeah, Yellowstone is really good. -What he recently did Blew it up to where -Okay, so that's not fading away? -But do they want to be a cowboy? The day in, day out of being a cowboy? -Now that's where it gets... That's where you're gonna lose -Some people just want -And that's okay too, you know. -That's okay too. the ones that are putting it on the line they also need to be recognized that are interested in the lifestyle [whooping and yelling] OGELIO: We're gonna get a [inaudible] CHILD: Okay. ROGELIO: Have you guys CHILDREN: No. ROGELIO: Would you guys Not today, but just in general? [all laughing] HECTOR: He's only gonna lick you. PETER: Okay, so this is the dream. -I can already see a community center, The equine center on that side DANIEL: There will be paddocks, -And then where can the horses... -On the middle section would be Horse therapy, After we planned about it. We should really put Danny and I were standing right over there. We were looking into it and by chance, a man walked over... Drove over and gave us It was like a... PETER: It was a landfill and now -From trash to treasure, yeah. We want to... It's gone like this for decades. And so we just want Hey guys, we want to clean this up and we've been doing that into our fourth year. -We need words to turn into action. That's really what it is &quot;Yeah, yeah, yeah, but are you really? Because at the end of the day So let's just turn words into actions. For the people that we're going to start a fund raising PETER: Link down below. -Yeah. -Yeah, our website to learn more PETER: And the last words from Big Man. You want to see this project started? -Well yeah, and I just can't wait for it to happen. We need donations, everything we can for the community and all the community and... never know, maybe this will be, like, the best thing except for the gang violence, -All right, guys, Connecting Compton, And I want to close on Outside of the amazing thing that The fact that... You can never really label a place fully. Everything has a stereotype to some degree and it's easy to label things Cowboys living in Compton. Trying to expand on what they're doing It's quite impressive. Just shows you that people and you never know what you'll find All right, guys, thanks for watching. Until the next one. country