Hey everyone, so in this little series I've flat without using any science, simply by and airline flights. But believe it or not, there is an even easier hoax on the internet, which involves no observations And that is to examine the conspiracy itself. So to begin, let's remind ourselves of what They tell a story of how the most powerful thousand years have conspired to convince shape than what it really is. Beginning as a simple lie, it slowly ballooned landscape we are now familiar with, where of science, and every aspect of technology Trillions of dollars are spent every year unthinkable number of people, an army of shills, Clearly, this is nothing short of the deepest ever conjured. It represents a level of cost, coordination, But then again, the stakes are high. What is the payoff for all this effort? What do these ultra-elites gain by filling and outer space? The answer is... Nothing. Yep, that's right. Nothing whatsoever. There is absolutely nothing that anyone could Flat earth priests themselves typically don't motive. For the few that do, what do they say? Some of them say it's "to hide god". Seriously. This is very dumb, as any god who is so weak is clearly not worth worshipping. Also, if that was the plan, then it totally do believe in some kind of god. Others insist that it's all about some form Beyond not offering any tangible control, control a people anyway. Look at any authoritarian dictatorship. North Korea does this wonderfully by restricting labor and executions. Viola! A brainwashed people under strict control! As for most of the rest of us, we do pretty We have to have jobs, and we get into credit yadda yadda yadda, but the shape of the earth the shape of the earth would give no one any There is no wealth to be lost if people were any power to be gained by the masses through Speaking strictly socially, nothing would So the idea that people are spending trillions idiotic. Nobody spends that kind of money for literally But that's not all. Let's more thoroughly explore the social First up, the sciences. If the earth is flat instead of roughly spherical, scientific disciplines that must be deemed First, geology. All geologists know the earth is a sphere, Then, physics. Physicists know that gravity exists, which all shills too. Astronomy, you'd better believe it. All of space is fake, so anyone who studies Everyone who talks about other planets, spacecraft, earth's core, or anything even tangentially on it. This means two things, both of which are equally First, millions of scientists all over the working under their government, universities, under one hidden entity, and not a single With flat earth there are no Edward Snowdens, come forward to offer a shred of insight as Even the President of the United States with fellatio and keep it a secret, but a scam upon, with millions of people in on it? No problem. Second, since literally anyone can become in the academic process where all the new So when is that exactly? Is it second year of graduate school where Eyes Wide Shut sex mansion party? Or is that only after you have a PhD? What about all the undergrads who are learning adding up, but haven't been brought to the Shouldn't any of them be asking questions? Exactly where is the line between shill and fast approaching that line be making YouTube They'd be rich and famous, after all. Moving on, it's not all about academia, Let's go to the federal level. As much as flat earth priests pretend that to space exploration, NASA isn't even the There are about a dozen others around the Then there is the private sector. Obviously there is SpaceX and other such companies, All pilots, or navigators of any kind, use Anyone who works in communications technology, meteorology, or even politics, just what percentage When you consider all the aspects of our society set of physical laws, it almost seems as though scam outnumber the ones that constitute the And all of these corporations, which are beholden money down the toilet paying salaries to people technology that serves no purpose? That's not how money works. And finally, let's get to the flat earth Those maverick renegades, those Neos in the This conspiracy has been going on for millennia, This secret society of Freemasons has had since the dawn of civilization, but they are YouTube channels! Whatever are they going to do? What could they possibly do except immediately a flat earth video in ten seconds with a laser Honestly, given the magnitude of the conspiracy to its progenitors, the fact that flat earth earth isn't flat. Why would these people spend thousands of the ultimate deception, and then risk losing webcams? Who could believe that they mastermind elaborate hundreds of enormous rockets and making them of new images per day, and yet they can't some slack-jawed basement dwellers? This really is the bottom line. If you're uneducated, you can ignore all If you're lazy, you can ignore all the observations If you're stubborn, you can ignore all the objectively are not CGI. Even if you ignore all of that, the story America and the USSR were not cooperating Conspiracies do not get passed down over a There is no Darth Sidious controlling the It makes no sense. Of course in the end, we all know that it's Among all the internet hoaxes, flat earth It is just a meme that spiraled out of control. It's a satire of conspiracies that became actually started falling for it. That's when the latest wave of flathead These are the bottom feeders that scrape together the same couple hundred poor saps desperately have none. They are big fish in the smallest and most This is why flat earth is the most stunning existence. It exemplifies the abandonment of logic that to reject the reality of their own inadequacies part of the chosen handful of John Connors The simplest of minds are unable to accept so any narrative that upholds their supreme requires that basic logic and the laws of As long as it is anti-establishment, as long as long as it requires no actual knowledge reality is the defense mechanism of choice set to match. And it is this most obvious of realizations phenomenon. It was fun for a moment, but as far as I can The flat earth priests haven't even acknowledged airtight to bother addressing. The patronage of flerf channels is on the Even the trolls with their sock accounts have Whatever bizarre social experiment this incarnation But what isn't done is the psychology of This is something I'm not at all done with. In fact I've only just begun. This precise character shows up in the realm the field better than astrophysicists. It shows up in the realm of medicine, pretending and biochemists. While only a tiny percentage of these types for flat earth, they all eventually find their or anti-establishment narrative that ends that some jerk can make a buck. So while this seems to be the end of the road just nothing left to say about it, perpetrators I'm coming. Until next time.