[Applause] &gt;&gt;LINDSAY ELLIS: Hello! How is everyone? [Cheers] I'm going to have a fun talk. [Laughter] This is going to be the light jaunty Like he said, a content warning. There's going to be some Nazis. But y'know, that's just the internet now. It's great. What a time to be alive, I love it. My name is Lindsay Ellis, I primarily work which is a fancy way of saying I spend an and the Beast remake. I do have a show where I talk about film theory using only Michael Bay's Transformers. I'm also the host of PBS Digital Studios' this talk. So, I thought about having this talk when sliding into my DMs like, hey, there's an is like, what do I do? And I kinda had a moment where I'm like, me advice on how to deal with bad faith hate them Diet Nazis. And that kind of made me realize that there of thing. And I had the sad realization that I kind sort of thing, because it has happened to just never talk about it because I don't want There's sort of two internets, because if know me in the same way people in the other bag. And a lot of times, people are surprised to So I'm going to talk about this today, and about this, so this is exciting. This is a story about a thing that happened to call The White Genocide Incident. [Laughs] That was supposed to be funny. [Laughter] You better laugh, because this [Laughs] This was a really dumb thing that It all started with a Twitter joke about a Save the Pearls. Is anyone familiar with that? It's a self-published YA novel where white [Laughs] and black people are the ruling class. See, it's sunnier now and they got that So that's something I like to come back funny. [Laughter] The original tweet that precipitated that deletes everything that is more than Highly recommend that, just to cover yourself. Then, as I'm joking about this, one of these you know, white genocide is real. And I respond with this tweet. Like, heck yeah, it's real! I love it! [Applause] [Laughter] I got a Pinterest board [Laughter] Five retweets, 31 likes. And I think it's incredibly telling that to, and that tweet is also gone so I don't Always a good sign. So this was in April 2017. Flash forward a year later, Summer of 2018, and guess who is canceled, it's James Gunn. Oh no, this surely isn't going to start a to this day. So for those of you who don't know who James of the Galaxy movies, and he was fired from 3 because he made some bad tweets--and let's He should not have said what he said, and But the people who motivated this campaign name them, but the basket of alt-right dipshits, Basically, because James Gunn was a vocal So it was an interesting qualm for a lot of were bad, but A. they were a long time ago meantime and demonstrated he had changed. But Disney immediately panic and let him go. So I, like so many, could see where this was And I definitely caught some flack for that, behind a wealthy white man who works for Disney. [Laughter] But, I still stand by what I said, this action was going to empower people to enemies, especially alt-right circles like faith criticisms to ruin people's lives And it did not end with James Gunn. I think everyone in this room can think of criticisms to go after people, usually journalists, There were a lot of campaigns coordinated And I also knew that, given this tactic succeeded, came for me--and they did, about six weeks [Sighs] There's that tweet again. Oh, boy. So, I do a show for PBS. They really don't like PBS. [Laughter] It's publicly-funded, they hate But they also really hate the idea that certain So, this Twitter account called Blue Check my [laughs] tweet. And I think it's really funny that they I work for Digital Studios, and it was only we were puzzling for the why, why did they I've never even been to Boston. And I realized it's because this guy must PBS website, and it defaults to your local [Laughter] So the Boston affiliate paid the And you also can't see because this tweet this was all stuff that we mined and kept You can't see how many retweets it had but It was bad. But you also can't really see my Twitter [Laughter] [Cheering] Very serious enemy am to destroy their anti-white racists. I highlight this because, when we talk about humor or irony. Everything is taken as yes, it's literal! White genocide Pinterest board? It's a thing that exists. [Laughter] So here are some more samples. Personally, the fact they go after PBS Nature [Laughs] My favorite over here is @GodWouldCare. "If this is true, you might need a mental I'd feel unsafe being her co-worker knowing [Laughter] So... this was awful. These brain geniuses don't know and don't I'm not even an employee. I do contract labor, sometimes. And PBSDS is mostly completely unaffiliated care, that's not the point. But, oh boy, let's call the L.A. affiliate, And they did. They were calling the L.A. affiliate, they just flooded with this. There were emails, and then it made it to Oh, boy. PBS host is really excited about that white And I want you guys to appreciate this ad. [Laughter] I about the demo of bigleaguepolitics.com. Yep, killing them dead. Chuck Woolery got involved, the game show [Laughs] I'm sorry, former game show host on Twitter. [Laughter] Yeah, so that sucked. I was lucky in that PBS, all of the affiliates... you had to have all of these people going an awful lot like the thing that happened month. But at the same time, they still had to address We had to collate all of these tweets, mine said what and when, and what the threat was, And I have to joke about it now, because we But another thing was, this happened right [Deep Sigh] And I have not said anything about that I was a Nazi magnet. So wow, last year was not great because I I would fall into the whole, oh god, what That was the catalyst to a big mental health I was going to have a section here called in public." [Laughter] I'm not going to do that because me cry in hotel lobbies last year. It was really embarrassing. The way John Scalzi described it was about [Laughter] Apologies to anyone I embarrassed. And in addition to that, it harmed my relationships, productivity and several friendships, and because everything was just crumbling and Because I don't know if anyone has gone through nothing more isolating than being targeted, and make you toxic to your colleagues, and Because if they touch you publicly, then they And there's another thing, this is not the won't not be the last, because this is just And it wasn't even the meanest, honestly. Because there's something kind of, like, Because a lot of times people will do it, to people. I'm at a place now where I can talk and joke the therapy rigamarole, I'm on a much better, To reiterate what Tracy [Clayton] said yesterday, need it, go to therapy. But this is still kind of difficult to talk associated with this. And the thing about being afraid all the time, physical, war zone is being afraid messes And then you start having the same responses danger. You became jumpy, you become more irritable, And a lot of that is because the goal here It's not just scary on a personal level. These people are feeling empowered enough genocide Pinterest board" was a compelling Thousands of people thought that they would thing, we should fire this person. Because the thing is, when well-intentioned people continue to employ them. But we are lucky in that people are seeing year ago. But when these people come for you, they cannot That's a mistake that a lot of people make. They do not want to be reasoned with. They are bad-faith attacks because they do And when I say bad faith--because a lot of faith criticism, and that's true. Obviously, this is not an example of that, But to me, it turns into bad faith when people a proxy in whatever culture war thing is going But this talk is not just about the overriding arguments and the fact that the racists are Because there's a lot of talk about the external harassment, cancel culture, is it good? But not a lot about the internal one, which So how do you deal with it? I've become an expert! I don't know if I've become an expert or you die. The two options. So let's say Nazis are trying to get you deplatformed Oh no, my brand! What'll I do? I'm going to XOXO and they might know! What will they think? It feels like you have a disease now, and Twitter, because nothing on the internet dies. What happens is, these people... there's will see you existing, maybe they'll see and they just take it upon themselves to slide with you and being, like, she's an anti-white [Laughter] I'm sorry, it's funny. And then other people, by proxy, are punished forum. That has happened to me a lot, and it still someone that maybe I don't know that well, Bill, like, "She's an anti-white racist!" And that's not the only thing they come They have a list, there's literally a website [Laughs] Although it does remind me of that stabbed by White Power Bill, and he's like, And G.O.B.'s like, "I'm... white..." [Laughter] So when you are, as in my case, you have two options, especially if the mainstream nobody really cares. You can either be open about what's happening I chose... don't. Because if the mainstream media doesn't notice--thank a story and it doesn't become discourse, outside of that bubble is going to know. And that's why it often surprises people and it's far from the first time this has And it's like, well, wow, I didn't hear And I'm like, yeah, because I didn't say And I had a chat with another person who is I was like, what do I do? Should I stand up for myself? And he's like, well, you can... but if you brand. And if you come out about people abusing you, become more well-known for being the harassed done. So let's say you want to make that go away. Here is some shit that does not work. [Laughter] Ignoring it does not work. That means, oh, I guess we have to try harder. Trying to reason with them does not work. They are not here to be reasoned with. You cannot reason someone out of something Being self-deprecating and jokey-jokey does Remember the Venom avatar, they don't care. Disappearing does not work, that's evidence Continuing to exist in a public space? That's exactly what they don't want you to They want you to stop existing. Apologizing? Wow, does not work! Because they don't care, they do not care And again, these are bad faith attacks. You are not a person, you are a proxy in a Your silence is not just the goal, the silence of the people that associate with you. Because you are not a human anymore. Sorry. So what happens now? You're just existing in this secret hell to have, like, pile on in YouTube comments, I have an assistant that handles my YouTube And you basically feel like a disease, because your harassment into their space. So you apologize just for existing, and in It's a human nature thing, where even in I'm not in the wrong, I should have guessed days and not joke about certain things. People are still kind of like, eh, you kind You know, like maybe there was something you You know? And it's just, people can't really help people. And it also harms your relationship with your You don't want to make content anymore. You don't trust people. And it's hard to make content for people to die, and the other half don't even know Then you become obsessed with prevention, these people think. You're required to know what might be possibly And if you don't think like these people, How do you prevent this sort of thing? It becomes this crazy-making circular mind You can't. So this is a conversation between Hank Green, Now let's unpack this. Do you know who Carlos Maza? [Cheers] Yes, support Carlos Maza. So Carlos Maza is another YouTuber. He and I were like Twitter buds, we hadn't Basically, he had been abused and bullied for years. A lot of homophobic and racist slurs, and and stand up for myself. Yep, sure did. You can guess what happened after this. Crowder mobilized his army, and is continuing This is still happening. And then you have the same exact thing happen If he responds to, in this case, Hank, who that are harassing me, now they are invited "Everybody scatter before they see us." This is the punishment for daring to interact And people become afraid of drawing the ire not unreasonable. If you respond to someone knowing that mentions that they would resent you for inviting that But that is the point! The point is to silence and isolate you. You can't read the minds of bad faith actors. So what do you do? Do you just not have a public face anymore, A lot of the reason why Hank is sympathetic too. This is another thing that I found, is the have either gone through it, or know people [Sigh] And then, so what do? Because as we've seen, you basically have You're completely isolated, and it's kind not really any resources for it. There's not a hate mob support group because And it's telling that when this happens resources they pull from, they come to me. And so, the thing is, I am obviously not unique We're entering this era where there's this this becoming more and more common, of people communities. No one knows what to do with it, so we're because obviously, my anecdotes are not specific. What else did I do? Well, drugs. Drugs are good, both prescription and otherwise. And then, of course, cloistering yourself. And I do mean this. I see people, like Carlos was an example, and highlight it, and I was like, no, you Because you're re-traumatizing yourself. And I see, not just him, but I see that happening abusers and being, like, haha, look at how You can't hurt me! I say way worse things about myself! And it's like, yes, they are very good at they're very good at getting under your already have worse, because they speak the And another thing I do is I have my Twitter advanced options and mute everything. And honestly, that's been a lot healthier nonsense of last year died down. There's such a huge volume of people at And I get a lot of threats. So we would have, basically, like an inbox I have someone that handles my YouTube comments I don't look at them anymore. And I don't really look at my Twitter mentions But obviously, like, I am lucky in that I A lot of people don't have that. So what can you do? Well, there's also the option of a barter to be in a position similar to mine. If you have someone that doesn't have any can keep an eye out for threats for you. But if it's not a threat and you're not to people abusing you. It becomes a form of digital self-harm. And that only makes things worse. But, while we're here, this is all very isolationist, I'm talking basically about cordoning yourself like the Onceler, looking out. It can't just be about you, as an individual, storm of badness to pass. So there's Hank again. So this is the same day as the Meme America This is right after he was trying to reason Bestselling author, YouTuber, and science former game show host Chuck Woolery on my What a time to be alive. [Laughter] So this was something that I didn't He did this with the intention of basically in there without drawing attention to what occur to me until months later what a brilliant But another thing that I realized... Again, this has happened to me a lot over I used to work for this website, that I won't When I worked for this website, and there people who ran the website would either be it altogether. And when Hank did this, I realized this was campaigns that anyone in any position of power It was the first and possibly the only, to And I point this out because it highlights their colleagues. But, at the same time, it was in a brilliant wasn't drawing attention to the racists. But instead was urging people to build a platform means of combating the primary weapon they So then a few months later, my friend Natalie interview and they posted it, the alt-right dog shit. So do the same thing again, this is a Contrapoints It is. [Laughter] 1,600 responses. So that is a much more effective means of rather than drawing their harassment into to invite more. So with this idea of you, the harassed one, But I think the thing is, we have to start through this, while not actually aggravating So if you see someone going through something thing to do, stand up for your friends and There are ways to do that without bringing They are trying to drown you out, so the best In my case, what Hank did made me realize This was the first time that I'd ever gone that someone drew attention to support, and Another thing is, people, on an individual whenever someone is going through something It's like anxiety, I don't want to bother And it's like, do it anyway. Find ways to support your friends and colleagues, at the same time, there is risk associated You might invite harm by supporting someone is no risk. You might end up on someone's Pepe Silvia I had another colleague that is also going now, and has been for months, who ended up wall that looked just like this, just last Because, yet again, they want you to live So there's a lot of energy right now about But I wonder also if there's a way we can who are being abused by bad faith actors. When Harry [Brewis] was doing his presentation out of spite but ended up being really supportive There are ways to engage with people who are is a very charitable way to inspire them, Right now, we're at a place where we need but also strategies to elevate and bolster It's so incredibly isolating, and it's standing up for people being targeted. And another thing is, everyone responds to Some people, if they were in my situation, themselves. But others like me hide away from it, and tower and live in fear and then periodically But the ultimate thing is, and I think this worst thing that has ever happened to you But the reality is, we're also living at empowered. So I hope that in the months and years to resources for people who make their livings through something like this. There should also be better strategy for being His crime was standing up for himself and At the end of the day, it can't only be a to you. So my hope is that there will be more research for mental health professionals. Because online abuse is becoming more and more and more common, and it's a huge blind That's been a huge challenge for me, getting why don't you just log off?" [Deep sigh] But most of all, we need to build of people's humanity, because that is the If they revoke your humanity, you eventually And yeah, there is an inherent risk in standing attacked by bad and often dangerous people. We can't act like these people are not dangerous. They are. But do it anyway. Because the alternative is silence. Thank you. [Applause]