jazz PETER: Good morning, guys. Los Angeles, California, of wealth in the world and typically in my videos to get a wealthy person on camera but today is different. We're meeting a man started various businesses, He's done very well for himself that most of us never see. Let's do this. jazz PETER: Quite a beautiful place JOSEPH: Thank you. Yeah, we bought this place The last person who lived here The singer, you know Rod Stewart? -Yeah, he was building a house It's a huge community. Huge, huge mansions. Sylvester Stalone lives there. Now Adele. Denzel Washington. You know, it's a very, very tight, It goes up to -So you've produced -I have, yes. -How was that journey? -It was incredible actually, I didn't... When we were kids we really didn't know We just jumped in, the first move -Wow. ...and I started with a partner of mine on the movie, his name's Richard Pepin. -We didn't have, like, a business plan, We just wanted to make movies. We were on the set constantly. We couldn't wait to sell the movie -You're from? The reason I came here... [chuckles] I had a dream -So you're in, say, Damascus, or where? Homs, a small city called Homs. And what got me into the movies is My dad was shoemaker. I used to go and help him Worked with my dad and we became friendly with the guy So he let me in for free anytime I want. So I watched, I was first introduced The movie would play for a whole month -Okay. -And I couldn't believe what I was seeing. It changed my life for sure. I wanted to come to Hollywood -So how does someone It's not an easy transition is it? You know, it's not an easy transition Most people, ordinary, You know, God kind of sends someone And that person for me is a neighbor, Who his great-grandfather migrated to, ...and had relatives. -He came to go to school here and he From Palatka, Florida. And I came on a student visa. $400 in my pocket. We were, you know, but man, my dad said, &quot;If you want to go -Student visa and $400? -Welcome to America? -So how was that landing? -It was... It was... I was 18 years old. I lived on hot dogs and boiled eggs. -But you're Muslim, right? -And you're on hot dogs? -Whatever it took? -Whatever it took. As a matter of fact, I'll tell you and I met and Iraqi kid, barely spoke English, and he said to me, And you know, in the same pot. I bought a pot for a couple dollars And he goes, &quot;You like tuna fish?&quot;. I said, &quot;What's a tuna fish?&quot;. So he told, &quot;It's delicious.&quot; -He says, &quot;Only 9 cents a can.&quot; So he said, I said, &quot;Where'd you get 'em from?&quot;. So we went to the market, and then I said... &quot;Mohammed, why there is [both laughing] -You thought you were eating cat? -He was eating cat food. -Oh, he was eating cat food. The cat, it was 9 cents, And when I question it -&quot;Yeah, that's cat food.&quot; [both laughing] -This is beautiful, wow. -So you have big dinner events here? -A lot of dinners here, A friend of mine designed it and -Oh wow, that's beautiful. -And also I have, Not one pizza oven, And wood burning pizza ovens. So I make pizzas from scratch. -So growing up in Syria Which I've been to Syria, I was there before the war, 2007. Do you hold on to your Syrian roots or do you feel like you're fully American? I am fully American. I married a Christian American. Lebanese-American. -My kids are born here. This is my home, this is my haven. There is nothing like this country. -Yeah? Well, you traveled to 80 countries. -So I traveled quite a bit. There is nowhere in the world You have laws. You have somebody like me, and who can go to get a permit, and I needed the freeway, and... They can't say to me... and say yes to Paramount and Universal. You have rights, you have freedom, It's a huge country. Everything is available here. Everything available if you know what... You know, where to find it. And people are... American people They're really very kind, Um... Helpful. Unfortunately... They don't know... Most of them, or they don't know what they have. -&quot;What's best for them.&quot; -Well, I mean if you take -Uh-huh. -You know, unfortunately they're so busy trying to pay the bills, raise their kids, they don't take the time to figure out How to, like for example, I saw you -Mm-hmm. -They have one day where everything stop, and rewind, and think, and talk. -Spend time with the family and cook. Cooking, to me, I would make it mandatory -Eating good food? -Please. PETER: Wow. So beautiful. -This is one of my art director He painted this. This is a 38 feet ceiling. -Oh yeah, that's nice. The light comes right in. I see you've taken -I love Christmas. It start playing in October, [chuckles] All our Christmas dinners here -And you're not letting go of Christmas? -'Cause we're far into January now I think it's gonna stay another month. At the end of February maybe. -So you were saying outside, just don't understand what Is that because You saw another system or... -Well, you take the Koreans, for example. I just read a story. You know, they come in, they open and they work seven days a week. I mean, the mom, the dad, You know, I mean they sacrifice ...somebody went to the store &quot;I'm sorry, we're closed today.&quot; The only day maybe in 30 years, 20 years. &quot;I'm sorry, we're closed today You know? From immigrant to Harvard graduations. So first of all, you know, In order for you, for anybody to get ahead. You know, when you're that's the time when Save some money. I had two jobs for a long, long time. When I moved to Los Angeles, I couldn't be in the movie business. I didn't speak the language. Clint Eastwood didn't call me, say, &quot;Oh, you know, I heard &quot;You wanna come by?&quot;. -We're looking for the Syrian -Yeah, Syrian fresh of the boat. So I had... I realized in 1974, So when the kids complain today, Well, this is nothing new. In '74 I couldn't afford the rent. -So what'd you do? Like people move to -Like they're doing now to Vegas too right? A lot of LA is moving there. -A lot of LA moving there. So moved to Las Vegas because you can Less taxes, the rent was cheap. That's when I was able to buy a car, open a pizzeria, save the money, and decided, &quot;Okay, now I'm ready -Okay, so you had to sort of go, in a way, before you could go that direction? I got a job in Las Vegas. I learned how to deal all the games. I got a job as a room service waiter. And so I had two jobs, I mean &quot;Oh my God, That was a celebration. But that's how I saved my money Again, take the chance and open a business. -The majority in your circle here, -Entrepreneurs, 100%. -I mean a lot of educated people. I am not. But a lot of educated people. Like friend of mine, extremely, He's a lawyer, his wife is a lawyer. They work very hard, anybody they worked very hard. -So how many bedrooms here, Joseph? -There are seven bedrooms -I never understood -Well, I don't know if you have but your wife definitely To make a better marriage This is our master bedroom. The master bedroom -Oh, wow. -So this is Dahlia's closet. WOMAN: Oh, you got it on? How are you? -Good. DAHLIA: Hello, hello. PETER: So this is where my wife [all laughing] This part right here. [all laughing] JOSEPH: It's a two story. So how did you two meet? DAHLIA: That's a good story. -I was looking for a house. -And I found a house, and her uncle, &quot;Have my niece write it up &quot;You know, you don't have an agent?&quot; I said, &quot;I really don't have an agent.&quot; So she arrived, The most expensive house So Dahlia comes in, I said, you know, &quot;Write this house, DAHLIA: &quot;Write up this offer.&quot; -&quot;And you're gonna make $25,000. And she said, &quot;You shouldn't buy this house.&quot; I said, &quot;What? Why?&quot;. She said, &quot;It's the most expensive, Let me show you a couple more houses -It was by far the most expensive home PETER: 1.2 million? -1.2, everything else was, like... -That would be -Right, but everything else at that time -Okay. -So I said when you invest in real estate You want to be the least expensive home Not the most expensive. -So she refused to write it. She said, We start looking at different houses. We went out for lunch, That was on a Monday. On Thursday that week -Whoa! [all laughing] And she said yes. PETER: Wow, Were you like, or you were like... -Yeah, no, -Wow. -How many years? JOSEPH: And of course it went from for four million dollars. PETER: This was four million? -Wow. And now what do you think the value is? -Well we just refinanced it, -Love works in many ways. So the whole advice of, &quot;...Spend a couple years together.&quot; Didn't need it? We discussed everything. We really... We had a year long engagement. So that we didn't seem that impulsive -And we got married in Las Vegas, -Rod Stewart? [all laughing] -Wayne sang at our wedding. [laughing] PETER: So this is what you need? You're saying for -Separate bathrooms. DAHLIA: Separate bath and closet. Separate bathroom and closet. PETER: Yeah, I don't feel JOSEPH: No, no. She has her office here. She has double doors to keep me out. [all laughing] PETER: Double doors is essential also? Oh, wow. This is beautiful, you guys. PETER: Okay, here we go. This is definitely a toned down version. [Dahlia laughs] -But guess what, -Yeah. She puts stuff in it. JOSEPH: Yeah. PETER: We're calling it family storage? ...and you know, ski stuff, family storage. PETER: One step at a time Joseph, -Here's the wedding, see? -That's the wedding, 29, 30 years ago. -Oh, wow. -So you came over at 18, -Once when I was 19. DAHLIA: That's it. -That's the last time? -Wow. Then I couldn't wait to get out. [laughs] I came here and literally, I was having nightmares that I was I was having nightmares -Like a helicopter would go over -Yeah, I'm just... By the way, -Okay. -See, this is the guest room, Peter. When I offered to you I said... PETER: I'm a loser. I'm a loser. JOSEPH: It has its own entrance. PETER: Wow. So you came here some might say, of America, right? There was Like, China wasn't a player. You know, you couldn't just You sort of had to be here Can you still do that now do you think? -I know for a fact you can do it. What you do used to take me 50 people By yourself holding this camera. It's too dark here, you need reflectors, -You have been [all laughing] It is like I'm having help today. I came in here, guys, &quot;Stop mowing because the audio.&quot; and I'm like, &quot;Oh, thank you.&quot; JOSEPH: I am really passionate about And it doesn't cost much at all. I eat a lot of hummus. PETER: Oh, yeah. -This is for you, this is Italian hummus. -Oh, awesome. This is the classic, this is just olive oil Hey Flore. It's okay if we come through here? It's a mess? It's okay, who cares. PETER: Morning. JOSEPH: In my refrigerator, I have two refrigerators All vegetables. -You're a Costco shopper? -Yes, my wife is. She loves Costco but for me, where I go... [light switch] If you come here. -Look at this. [bags rustling] This is like 50 pounds of beans, you know? This is $28 for 50 pounds. You can feed 200 people. And a little bit of exercise I need.... PETER: This is where it happens, huh? So you work out a lot? I built this little screening room. -This is where you watch your movies -I have 5,000 movies on this. -Oh, this is great. -These are my movies. -Who was the most interesting actor -Most interesting... -Or who you connected with the most? -Roy Scheider, who did Jaws. He was extremely professional. Very, very, very sweet. Very, very nice. And I worked with Jean-Claude Van Damme. -Oh, wow. -I worked with a lot of different people. -Who are these people? -Peter, I bought a little apartment building and it was empty, and it was this poster in it, And I love those... Both pictures. I love Sinatra. I love all these guys. I listen to Tony Bennet JOSEPH: Sinatra used to perform and Sinatra was extremely kind person. He was a big tipper. So... And when he used to finish a show Sinatra's done, you better have the car So he comes in and he had &quot;Hey kid...&quot; and, you know, he goes, &quot;What's the biggest tip He's a little bit drunk &quot;Mr. Sinatra, I got a tip for $100.&quot; He goes, &quot;Tonight, you're gonna get $200.&quot; He gave me $200, and he closes the door. Start the engine, he goes, He goes, &quot;It was you, last night, Sinatra.&quot; [laughs] I played tennis for 20-some years. I used to go to the Playboy mansion and play, you know, -You knew Hugh Hefner? Kieth Hefner, his brother, -Did you ever put a pause on your life &quot;Look, I grew up in Syria. &quot;Worked in a restaurant. -Only in this country, again. -You didn't come with a name or money. -No. -You built it all. I never dreamed I would Look at this, I mean... Even my mom, when she saw it, I brought her in, she goes, You know, in Arabic she started praying. She said, And actually I got scared. I got scared because I was making... 30 years ago I was making a million-six a year. It was barely enough So I got scared. So I went to cancel the escrow. He goes, I said, &quot;This is crazy, I can't afford it.&quot; If I get fired, things slow down, So he opened the folder and he goes, &quot;There's only one Beverly Hills and I said, [laughs] And I changed my mind and kept the house. Thank God he said that. -So do you think it's better and then it just forces you -Yes, especially in a market a strong real estate market. I mean you don't want to Build $5 million home, Because you cannot resell it. But the property here is constantly... Hugh Hefner bought his property in 1972 Hugh Hefner sold it while he was alive From 1.2 to $105 million [plate clanking] PETER: You don't consider yourself but this stuff's obviously -Yeah, definitely. -Did you ever have any problems Was that ever an issue in the States? -You know, it was... Well first of all, I'm not. You know, I'm married to a Christian, -Sure. It's my God, it's your god. I get up in the morning, the first thing, Whatever his name is, Allah, Jesus. -Okay, outside of religion, or being Arab? -No, because I... It's how you approach it really. I mean, look, Very friendly, courteous, nice to people. You can sense if somebody's gonna be, You walk away. I've seen your shows -Okay. -A friend of mine is an Egyptian. -He's in the bar and this redneck said, He goes, &quot;Egypt.&quot; and the guy said, He goes, &quot;I know, that's why I'm here.&quot; [both laughing] PETER: Oh, jeez. JOSEPH: I mean it coulda gone either way. -Right. -He could say screw you and then... You know, it's how you... -How you diffuse the situation? I've never really been in a situation &quot;You Goddamned Arab, foreigner, I've never been in those situations. -Never in 50 years? And, you know, if I sense somebody or, you know, doesn't want to I just, you know, I just move away. I always keep in mind, &quot;God, what if this guy has a son -Right. -Or got killed in foreign land, You know, I just have to -This is fantastic, Joseph. Nothing like a good hummus. There we go. Mmm. Why is it so hard Let me just say this. Shooting videos, -Okay. -So thank you, for bringing me in, Because everyone wants to see We all can learn from that, right? -Why is it so hard to get in? If you're not, say, part of the club. -Right. -Multi-multi-multi millionaire. Why is there, like, a steel wall almost? -I know three billionaires. -And there's no way Whatever I can say his name, Who owned 10 hotels in Las Vegas. From New York, New York, to MGM, and he's the greatest guy in the world. He's such a nice guy He's just so private, and most people, including me, I'm probably the poorest guy You know? I don't want to come across -Okay, right. -And I hope I never came across... Anything I say, that I'm not bragging. I'm hoping to inspire somebody. That's the reason I said, But I did mention it and you know, wealthy, -Is that a new thing in the culture? Where, say, the wealthier... I don't' know, I don't know... Or is it they're just better -Well, they're perceived... Yeah, they're heartless. The only reason they got wealthy And they have their own, you know circle, kind of thing, you know? -Okay, yeah. I think most things that come at them, maybe at that position in life, &quot;Can you help me do this?&quot; -Exactly, exactly. -Expected to do something. -That makes sense. PETER: How does money work you have a million, you want two million. You have two million, It keeps going, And have a nice home here? And that's all of a sudden 50 million Is that a constant stress? -Uh... -Like to want more or how does that work? -I think, to me, once you have enough... Everything else you want to do, I don't want to do it for the money. I don't want to die with an extra I don't want a bigger house. I don't want a plane. I have friends with private planes. I don't want one. I drive, you know, a nice car, -Yeah. -Rolex, you know, I do like to make money if it's fun. If it's a fun project, of course. -That's the measure of If you make money from the project. -And you're still doing these right now? -I still do 'em, You know, even if I'm 90, I like working. -Where was that transition from movies -It's almost the same thing. You know, building a set, creating a story, you're creating something because I never made a move, like, I made, you know, popcorn movies. So now if you Or a hotel, or a place for people to enjoy, I think it's the biggest high. JOSEPH: This is Beverly and Santa Monica. This is the highest sale in the world. It just sold for $415 million. -This building? -1.2 acres. They're gonna build I think the cheapest room -So what do you think right now With the way the economy is going, right? People are either going up in wealth, the poor is the poor. -Unfortunately. -The average job, it's much more difficult. -It is much more expensive. Much more difficult, but I think if you It was like this in the '70s -Really? JOSEPH: Just right now, okay, Even a homeless person owns an iPhone. So now the expectations is completely different. I just don't see the millennial &quot;You know what, I don't need to &quot;I'll skip that.&quot; I mean the difference and who's not gonna make it and education, and discipline... ...you know, you put in now. PETER: So your first experience was what? -With Clint Eastwood I wasn't a paid assistant. They were shooting in Las Vegas the line producers and he just... I was glad to just be on the set. He let me hang out on the set, and it was just And I thought... ...all movies made like the Clint Eastwood. Which is, you know, one take. One take, and he doesn't say action. &quot;Okay, whenever you're ready.&quot; Not like Martin Scorsese, who I love. -He will do 50 takes, 60 takes, -Sure. -You know, but Clint Eastwood, 16 day, whatever. Just say, &quot;Okay, we're good enough, This used to be a public parking lot. The city comes and makes a deal They said, &quot;Okay, build a hotel here, &quot;...but we want to make sure The parking lot is underground. Look what they created. This is all residents. You can bring your sandwich, Nobody can tell you to leave. Lebanese-Armenian Look at this. This is $2,000, $3,000, $5,000 -Lebanese-Armenian guy? -That's a guy you wouldn't mess with, Lebanese-Armenian. [chuckling] How much a night here for rooms? -Minimum $850. -$850, okay. Hey guys. -Thanks, boss. I'm gonna point out the obvious, Joseph. No homeless people around these parts. Once in a great while but usually they don't... I don't know, Beverly Hills... -It's not Santa Monica, that's for sure. I have three homes in Venice. I just sold one last week, Selling them at a loss They built... I built these homes and they built So who's gonna buy a $5 million home and you have a homeless shelter -So why do you think the state or the city for those operations? -It's crazy. -I tell you, many, many, many developers &quot;Let me build it for you.&quot; &quot;Let me give you another building.&quot; &quot;Let me take that property and put, &quot;Take that money, but they will not do this, I don't know. I just don't understand it. Or I heard one case scenario &quot;Okay, we'll let you do it One for the homeless, for free, or $3 million condo. Which is crazy. There has to be a sustainable way Nobody should be homeless in this country. -Right. -We're so wealthy. But I think when the government [woman laughing] WOMAN: Hello. CARRIE: Hi Peter, Carrie. PETER: Carrie, nice to meet you. My husband Jaymon. -Jaymon. -This is my oldest friend, I've known her -Yeah. -We made a movie together in Canada. Was that the Bruce Willis movie? -That was the Wesley Snipes. -Oh, Wesley Snipes and Jason Statham. Jason Statham... PETER: I get that a lot, with the hat up. Yeah, I'll see ya later. -See you soon. WOMAN: Trying to get into a building... -You know the response time But they make a couple hundred thousand -[surprised] Really? -150, 180 to start. -Okay. -The detectives or whatever They deserve it, you know. -They put their life on the line. A friend of mine owns this restaurant, If you want to spend two, three hundred, Here's the place to do it. A friend of mine ordered one and they will not let him order one So he had to buy another watch first. -Before he ordered [car chase on television] PETER: What film is this? -Called Epicenter. -When did you shoot this? No green screen, You're gonna see a car flipping. There's not one shot is computer generated. -So you had some good drivers there, huh? The camera's underneath. -Oh my God. -Watch this, somebody inside that car. -Somebody inside? We built a cage around them. You know, like a race cage. We were the only independent film makers, that were capable of doing this. I just went after a guy He is the biggest action director today. He does The Fast and the Furious. All the Marvel pictures, huge. He's the guy who did this. Started with me. We were very ambitious and we were You know? And we concentrate on action. We just specialized in that. If Warner Brothers, or Paramount, want to do a picture like this, It would take a week to shoot, -And it cost you guys 50 grand? -50 grand, 75 grand. -The Sweeper? -90s? -That's me. -90s? -Yes, C. Thomas Howell There's a camera on the motorcycle, This is real, look at this. He makes the jump on the car. -Wow. How many times? Just once? Now the whole car He has to push the car away from him. Look at this, he pushed the car. He was going under the car, this guy. He's amazing. -The stunt man? Huge risks, huh? Those guys? -Are they getting paid a ton for that? -I think the biggest stunt I've ever paid -So that guy out there for the day? -For the day, probably make $2,000. -To risk his life multiple times? And when I went to watching the same guy who did this. They have a budget of $250 million. They do one scene, cost $20 million. One chase scene. -Are the stunt men still as brave -I think they're brave but now -Okay. -And the reason The Fast and Furious because the majority of it is real. -It's cliche and a bit corny sometimes but do you think anyone can do -I honestly believe if you have the will, You know, all these guys, he's the top guy in the world. You know, he started in the church Couldn't speak English, Greek. He wanted to be a stunt man. He started jumping He put the camera, he has the eye, -But you also have to know your skill. I'm never going to be in the NBA You have to know... -Your limitations and what you're good at. Yeah, but sometimes you'll surprise yourself, you know? -Right. -You have five foot, two guys JOSEPH: What you're gonna see now, I don't think it's ever been done What these guys did. Watch this. [fighting and grunting] This is real. This is real. This is down, there's nothing but... [fighting and grunting] And Spiro thought of, Watch this. [ominous music] This is not a computer. He is anchored from his shoe And this is real. This is real. [Peter surprised] What? What!?!? -C'mon. [cable clanks] PETER: What? -This is real. -I mean how many times did you test it? -That's it? -We didn't test it, they just did it. I mean, they're harnessed PETER: Thank you for today. -Thank you, man. Thank you. -I appreciate it. You're an inspiration, very cool guy. And a look into a world and you did it in a very educational, So thank you for that. -All right, guy. Anything else? -That's it. -I have nothing to promote. -Nothing to promote? -I have a hotel coming Gold Extended Stay. -Where? -That's my dream, -Okay. All right. So stay there, guys. All right, until the next one. jazz