Translator: Emily Biegas Everybody wants the good life, but not everybody gets Imagine for a second if right now, today, how much if you just started a company 50/50 with Bill Gates and he was using every trick of the trade into one of the biggest Imagine how much money you'd have how much more money, I should say - if Warren Buffet was teaching you showing you what he used into a $140 billion company. Imagine how much happier you'd be today if the Dali Lama was your personal guide, showing you how to find in the little things Imagine how healthy you'd be today if when you woke up, you went down to your gym, and Arnold Schwarzenegger who was your personal trainer, showing you how he built his body into the most fit body maybe ever, right? Imagine the change you'd be the injustice you'd be solving today, if Mother Theresa and you and she was showing you what she learned on the streets of Calcutta, Mentors have the power I think everybody here recognizes But in the next few minutes, I'm going to show you how than you can possibly imagine in their ability It's interesting that because my grandmother in Berlin, Germany. She's 96 years old, by the way, and she said, &quot;Tai, tell them hello.&quot; So, hello from my 96-year-old grandma. (Laughter) She said, &quot;There was a role model, when I was a little girl.&quot; She was born in 1918 in Berlin, and she said, &quot;We had a renter Edith Knox, who was from California in the 1920s. She said, &quot;Tai, this woman She rented a room for a summer, and she said, My grandma said, &quot;I'd never seen Apparently, in Germany in the '20s, And not just regular pants. And then she'd play the piano, would stand on her head for exercise. My grandma was like 7 and she said, &quot;Tai, I thought if that's how women one day I'm going to move to California.&quot; And sure enough, That's part of the story of how I'm from California. I flew here. It took me 20 hours to get here, So Hollywood, the &quot;Land of Dreams.&quot; Or for most people, Every year, 100,000 people Some come to be movie stars, Most go home empty-handed. So I live up in the Hills, and I'm surrounded I have one on my left, I often think, &quot;Why did What did they do differently Because in Hollywood, but not everybody gets So I want to talk a little bit Because life is short. I think we all realize the sands of time And you don't want to be old or too old. Right? It's like the Dutch saying, &quot;We're too soon old, too late smart.&quot; Steve Jobs said, &quot;I didn't want to be And I realized this. I remember back, I was younger and Alan Nation, one of my mentors, &quot;Tai, what did you want to be That's the truest version of yourself. What did you want to be And I remember at 16, Aristotle talks about eudaimonia, Health, wealth, happiness, love. I remember going, &quot;It's too hard. There's so many hard questions. I got to figure out what college to go to, who I'm going to marry, what career and path to pursue.&quot; And I had this idea. I'll find one person - I thought this was so genius, But I'd find one person So I wrote a letter. The smartest person I could think of I wrote this letter: &quot;Will you tell me TED is about T-E-D. The &quot;D&quot; is about Design, So I said, &quot;Will you help me And I was so excited. Four days later I got this letter I read it and it said, The modern world's too complicated. You will never find all the answers If you're lucky, a handful of people And I was like, &quot;Ugh!&quot; But seven days later, a package came. It was books. My grandfather had a 20,000-book library, and he had sent me some old dusty ones. A 1,000-page volume. 11 books. &quot;The Story of Civilization,&quot; I was like, &quot;1,000 pages? But I see now, he was giving me There's this myth that you But the truth he was saying If you can download the consciousness, who have gone before you - the smartest, the wisest, the most experienced people - then you will get what you want. And so I went on, and I started I called them mental shortcuts. And then I started traveling. I'd read a book and say, So I went to New Zealand and Australia, South America, Argentina, Ireland, I was focused on those 4 things: I decided to focus I lived for two years with Joel Salatin on his famous sustainable Then I spent 2 1/2 years with the Amish. No electricity, trying to see what I made one mistake. That's one of the things, I had to do the thing nobody wants to do, &quot;Mom, I know I'm an adult, Do you mind if I come stay at home She had a mobile home I went and she said, &quot;Sorry, Tai, I don't have a room for you, So I remember laying there at night, Did I miss out on the good life? Here I am, I have no college degree. My skills? That wasn't a very marketable skill. I remember I had like $47 I had a car, Somehow it had rusted through, and if you accidentally it would chop your foot off. or pick anybody up in that car. I remembered back to what So I started asking around: My uncle said: &quot;You need somebody So I was like, &quot;Great idea. But I didn't have any gas money. I was stuck there I walked to the kitchen. I found the yellow pages I looked in the finance section I said, &quot;I'm going to visit this guy.&quot; So I got a suit out of the closet. It wasn't mine, it was too big. I don't know what I looked like I got somebody to drive me in, I showed up and Kathy, his secretary, and Mike Steinback, from the phone book, &quot;Mike, you don't know me. - you must know a lot about money, in the yellow pages - if you show me what you know I'll never forget. He had a big mustache. He was sitting there, And he said, &quot;You know, Tai? I've been Show up in the morning, And sure enough, he did show me. And he began to mentor me on business. And now I'm an entrepreneur. But I've continued on that path, I read a book a day. I have a little book club, I write. And what I've found in my research Mentors - your ability to copy - of the success that you will have in life. As Picasso said, &quot;Good artists copy, Right? And I looked around, and it's interesting. Did you know Albert Einstein Every Thursday, he would have Jay-Z, the rapper, he had a mentor. Oprah Winfrey said she had two mentors. Gandhi had a mentor. Alexander, the Great, had Aristotle. Bill Gates had Paul Allen. Warren Buffet had Benjamin Graham. There's something here have missed out on. So I want to share with you some specifics that you The first rule, It's the Law of 33%. You should divide up your life around people lower than you. You can mentor and help them. And they'll help you back by making It's good to know somebody's Then you have 33% of people These become your friends, your peers. But that last 33% is what Those are people 10, They'll make you feel but that's what you want, and remember you don't want to make the mistake finding somebody just You don't want to be the blind So I call it the 10x rule; find somebody If you want to learn how to grow you have to find somebody Don't be afraid to go to the top. In-person mentors are amazing. And you can get people You'd be surprised! My friend Frank heard a talk. He's like, &quot;Tai, you won't believe this. And Elon Musk, the founder of Paypal, the only man to own three companies worth You'd be surprised, They remember their struggle, Remember, everybody wants the good life, but not everybody's willing You must follow these rules. Next, humility. One of my favorite stories in business, He becomes the richest man in America. He starts Walmart, this big empire. And he takes a trip to Sao Paulo, Brazil. And when he's there, his host family They're like, &quot;Come bail out By this time, he's an older guy. They rushed down. If you've ever seen the inside it's not a good place And they asked the police, &quot;Are you crazy? They're like, &quot;We didn't know who he was, and we found him crawling around They asked him what he was doing, and he's like, &quot;I was just measuring how I was trying to figure out something that I didn't know.&quot; Already a billionaire. You see, everybody wants the good life, but not everybody's willing You have to be humble. Next, perseverence. The media has tricked us. They only show us the success at the end, It wasn't until 31 years old He said from age 20 to 30, You must persevere, and in your search for mentors I've been lucky to become friends with one of the top real estate I said, &quot;How did you get started?&quot; He said, &quot;Back when he was 19, I lived in a little town, but there was So I went down to the developer's office. I said, 'I'd like to meet this developer.' She said, 'Sorry. He's a busy man. He went back the next day. 17 times! He said on the 17th time, &quot;Here's what you do. Hide When he comes out of his office jump into the elevator. And he won't have a choice. And you've got four floors that you're worth talking to.&quot; I don't know what my friend said, that when they got to the bottom that developer said, We'll go down to my private jet. I'll show you how I invested Sure enough, my friend learned and became one of the wealthiest He persevered, because, you see, but not everybody's willing You must persevere. Next, books. Books you should see as hidden treasure. Think about it, because as I said, but some of the great mentors Shakespeare, Darwin, Freud, But if I told you all those people and they're going to be there - magically I can make that happen - Of course everybody would buy They are there in my house. They're on my library. Talking about Sam Walton. This is a man who made more than all the other billionaires, He wrote a book on his death bed. How many people have read it? It's a tragedy that not every by a man who built an empire. It's because the modern education system You have to rewire your brain. First thing: stop seeing a book See a book like a friend. You read it over and over. And just like friends, I recommend you find 150 books. There's 130 million. But 150 you can read over and over There's no rule, either, at what pace. I set my own pace. People say, &quot;How do you read Sometimes I take a week. But sometimes, books only have In fact, most books only have that. So I'll flip through the pages. I like to go through it three times. First time, I read The second time, I go a little faster. The third time, I just focus See yourself like a gold miner Then put it back on the shelf. The average American buys 17 books a year. Maybe reads one a month. because remember, but not everybody's You must read more. And lastly, stoic versus epicurean. One of the first books that I read, this there was a quote that I wrote down. &quot;A nation is born stoic Stoics were people for something better later. You could say they were investors. Epicureans live for now. They were consumers. They said, &quot;You only live once.&quot; There's a saying, &quot;If you're in a room and you don't know who the sucker is, You never want to be the sucker. Guess what the media wants to do. I can tell you, I'm from Hollywood. They bombard you. They're trying to sell you something. Luxury comes at the cost your dreams, your ambitions. So toughen up a little bit. Be a stoic. When was the last time you Or walked instead of taken a car Or did 100 push-ups? Or turned the air conditioning off? Toughen yourself up. Everybody wants, but not everybody You must toughen up. So in closing, I'll share with you my favorite poem, He says, &quot;Love your life. Perfect your life. Beautify all things in your life. Seek to make your life long, and its purpose Mentors will help you do that. They are the shortcut that you want. You don't want to do it the hard way. Find a mentor, no matter or if you're already experienced. There's always someone to learn from. You must follow those rules. Be humble. Persevere. Remember, it's going to be It's like Tom Hanks says &quot;It's supposed to be hard. The hard is what makes it great.&quot; If you do these things, Thank you. (Applause)