How to get to effortlessness? effortless. It's obvious that we cannot get there you to effortlessness. There is another type of effortlessly, and that originates from us: it's a scent that's looking for the way to this... Well, if I paraphrase what he said, it's no effort, meaning no goal--right? Meaning not what is at that moment, meaning complete welcoming The question is not what Sahaja is, that's clear, there is no choice. Yeah, but there are even when they experience Sahaja So they immediately decide that that's not into the past, into fear and desire. The second Sahaja Samadhi. Samadhi means state. Sahaja Samadhi So, how to get to effortlessness? How to get to we cannot get there through effort because more what is it in our experience that brings event brings about a change effortlessly us? I understand that if a cop stops you about a change. You're going to have to pay a which seems to be completely independent to... that is felt as originating from us brings about a change Yes, it's a repose, it's a relaxation, it's of experience it. If we let it happen, that all of a sudden brings about a change effortlessly, and You see? We cannot understand through when we kind of relax the effort to understand. So, understanding comes from we have the desire for it, but it's a desire that has no direction because we don't know the we cannot go in a predefined direction. of the desire is no longer directed into a the energy of the desire goes because it is not given a direction. And As a result of this understanding, we are as a result of this specific understanding--not an do in life in a given situation, what we are: Consciousness, Reality. When believe that we are separate. That's the For a short moment, in the beginning, we are it because we forget the understanding. The just fine right now.&quot; And then the old habit comes want that, it's not good, not good enough. I want see the Symphony of the Angels,&quot; etc. And now we to see the angels, or whatever, right? Or having So, when we fall in love with Truth as a result we are left in our natural state. We have habit to escape it. It's an effort. So, we leave the natural state because it seems so to think about other people. And then, because but it's already ignorance. You see, comes back to us, because remember, as if we see other people, if we think: &quot;This person &quot;This person is very nice.&quot; Of course, if we So, it's very insidious how we--because we have... the original sin. You know, every time after a words, we are back in the garden, naked, &quot;Oh, oh, there is this apple here,&quot; right? And kicked out of the garden. In the beginning, taste of the apple. So, we are teleported out there are many apples on the trees; they have In other words, there are many the essential sin of ignorance. There are many leave our natural state. Sahaja is our natural We don't leave it, really, we just pretend that we are leaving it. How can we leave that which we the trip out of the garden is not a real It's a bad dream that seems like a good dream, the expression &quot;readily available&quot; before, of Sahaja 100%. Some of the time you're just So, we are not 70% in Sahaja. It's a yes at that moment, what do I truly believe to be? limited person, I'm out of the garden. If have to know that I'm not separate, I simply That's very important because it's simple. I don't know that I am separate. And if, in But the next moment, I believe I know, I So, it's this oscillation in and out, In... Maybe another time I can find the quote, mentioned it. I think the way Jean Klein mentioned one looking back and one looking forward. And there is a text by Plotinus in Greek who had the glimpse--have a double head.&quot; He said a double face. They have a face through which but they have a face behind through which at Being. It's like something has towards this presence. But that's only, Because, yeah, Jean Klein says somewhere that in tiny dot in the back and a tiny, tiny opening. But you will, whereby the reality that was attributed And then, in turn, this point and so everything that appears floating in that manifests it. Yeah, that's the a process that seems to happen over time. Is All of these descriptions, you know, the the mind to understand what I am saying and asking happened to me?&quot; We try with the mind to reach me or not, and this judgment by the mind is in the first place? Because what matters is To seek an understanding... Because when we experience--we say: &quot;Oh yes, now I see what Jean differently.&quot; And no description will be Francis' perspective, which I sometimes try to do, perhaps you hearing it or each of you will and none of these representations will ten years down the road, will say: &quot;Oh, that's I would have expressed it And it is not something that starts happening when was going on for a long time already. It's just experience.&quot; And this matching of the words with What is important is... Because that kind of will be sufficient or adequate. The understanding to a state but to the witness, or to the reality, the states. Whatever you understand that relates in my case, to &quot;I,&quot; to Reality, to Being. The rest is the fluff. Okay, thank you.