Transcriber: Katelyn Nicholson In the dark of the night, 4 a.m., I look over and my husband's not there. I look further, and I find him flat on his back, &quot;Our lives are hollow It had been two-and-a-half years of hopes and prayers No one had come. And the despair that ripped through to the point where friends and family Because we so clearly were depressed. As a clinical psychologist and scientist, I had been trained to see Much like cancer or diabetes, of despair and isolation. And yet that simply did not explain nor did it explain the depression miscarriage, trauma, or the natural transitions portholes in passages - chapter breaks were not aberrant illnesses. They were not diseases. And so my husband and I continued with each cycle ending in a disappointment And as we continued we started ever so gradually, to open our eyes from a dark to a place where we started to hear the folks who, on the Appalachian Trail, for bringing food and water Our trail angels brought wisdom and guidance. So one day I came home with the haunting feeling that this too was a failure. And sure enough, as I stepped to the door, the evidence was incontrovertible. A tiny dead duck embryo And I knew it was not possible And so I went to bed to awake - (Imitating knocking sound) the mama duck, who had lost her aspirational baby. And the mama duck was persistent. I thought what would the duck She wanted to come towards me. And as I opened the door, the most precious thing She had brought me a plump, juicy worm. Mama duck and I, there we were, Not alone because duck and I and not alone because And so, too, through that force And the guy on the bus winked, &quot;You seem like just type of mother adopting all types of kids,&quot; Listening to the helpers so that the next time was not by the rip of depression, but by a great a presence with a love so great And the presence said, And I said something so awesome But I also knew that this journey was more than a disease, and that this depression on a path of &quot;becoming&quot; - Continuing down this path, I wanted that baby. It was great that I was on And so we didn't quit. Up and down the East Coast We went so far as to find and sitting there in solidarity we found that the remote was stuck one interminable documentary, (Laughter) of a little boy - a little boy who stood and said, &quot;I don't care that I'm poor. But it hurts so much to not be loved that I sniff glue And lying there my husband and I looked at each other. And he said it first. We knew there was a child We made our way to a wise woman the daughter of a once clergyman. She looked at us and said, &quot;Frankly, what is it that you are And I leaned in and said, &quot;Well, I don't care I don't care what race this child is. And my husband jumped in and he said, (Laughter) What we knew in common you will never be parents, the voice was now a voice It hurts so much to not be loved. All he wanted was a mom, What would have made us family was love. Parenting was love. This was depression as a portal a world in which we walk a spiritual path. This was depression And on the other [side of the] door and spiritual path, a spiritual passage. Now, as a clinical scientist, that anything true through yet another human lense The certainty I had that depression and spirituality seemed well within reach of science. And so my lab, together with that and Rafi Bancell, did the science: two sides of one door - Where is depression as the portal And we found it. And we found it in broad We welcomed into our lab deeply depressed people from families and similar people with families who through their journey of suffering had reached a foundationally People whose lead foot was now depression And what we found was that in precisely which atrophied and withered For those people with a strong there was a thickening The cortex was thick as if you were looking versus a tree whithering Two sides of one door is in us. It can be. We can need to be rebooted It can be. But very often, depression is core to our endowment, My husband and I continued that we were on the spiritual path It was clear that our suffering it was not an empty symptom, and with the awareness the presence came back. The presence asked the same question And my answer was honest, I can feel we're down the road. There is the possibility of spiritually evolving into But no, I'm not quite there where I would still adopt My love has grown, Not yet. And so we continued, and I found myself in the community of those that depression and spiritual awakening the other. Seated on the floor among the Lakota in South Dakota, And here, each woman talked about to our collective prayer. 'My son, he's 40. 'My son, he's 14, and he's starting I, in turn, shared that I was Together, we prayed and we sent it up. We sent our prayer both for one another, to Great Spirit, &quot;Wananchi.&quot; That night, a call came. They had found him, that very night We have found the Miller's child There are great girls but this is the Millers child, This time, clinical science had something to say When we looked at the women had come to a spiritual path, they also had another quality: the back to their head gave off that we call &quot;Alpha.&quot; And it's also found on the back Alpha has another name, It's the wave length of the earth's crust. The spiritually engaged brain vibrates From the Inipi across the globe of consciousness, love, this sacred field and covers all living earth. This is the world in which we live - and in which there is guidance, And through the field of love the guy on the bus, the medicine woman, the wise, generous animals, In fact, we can no longer begin to think but that the world is alive and infused with that sacred field Knowing this, we live a life of meaning but meaning that is truly We live in an inspired life. Isaiah, my son, had been found, for &quot;one world&quot; in Lakota And yet, we still, and much more full of love and connection, had the anxiety of actually bringing him home. And then one day, the FedEx came and there was the video. We popped it in and the most joyous little boy, a love like I had never felt lifted me up, and any remnant of depression And together, my husband and I That night, the presence came back - the great sacred presence &quot;If you were pregnant now, &quot;Yes, I found my spiritual son, yes.&quot; And that night, his sister. We had spiritual twins. So when you hear the knock, consider the invitation. What sounds shocking, and as if the hand when we walk through the door that guides and ultimately gives. On the other side of the door brought to us by the presence. Thanks. (Applause)