I want her back. Well of course you do. Nothing unifies a people like a common enemy... I won't rest till I've burned Troy to the ground. I thought you wanted peace with Troy? I should have listened to you. Peace is for the women... The Trojans have never been conquered. And the weak. Agamemnon has wanted to destroy us for years. I'll attack them with the greatest Empires are forged by war. Hector commands the finest army in the east. Prince Hector is he as good a warrior as they say? The best of all the Trojans. An insult to me is an insult to you. And an insult to me, is an insult to all Greeks. One last thing. Some say he's better than all the Greeks too... We need Achilles and his Mermydons. This will be the greatest war We need the greatest warrior. Are the stories about you true? I knew they would come for you. They want you to fight in Troy... This war will never be forgotten. I will not fight for him. Nor will the heroes who fight in it. Think how many songs they'll sing in your honor... I'm not asking you to fight for him. You were born for this war. I'm asking you to fight for Greece. If you go to Troy, glory will be yours. They will write stories about your The world will remember your name. He can't be controlled. We don't need to control ACHILLES! Look at the men's faces. That man was born to end lives. You can end this war with a swing of your sword... The man wants to die. Achilles is the past. How many battles have we won of the edge of his sword? We need him my king. Is there no one else? Who are you soldier? Is there no one else? Achilles. Son of Peleus. I'll remember the name. At night I see their faces. Of all the men i've killed. They're waiting for me. They say welcome brother. We men are When does it end? It never ends. You'll kill more men if i don't kill you? Many. I've known men lacking my whole life. No you haven't. You think you're so Why did you come here? What do you want I want what all men want. You came here because you want your name to I just wanted more. Soldiers understand nothing but war. You speak of Peace confuses them. But how many wives wait at Troy's gates for husbands they'll How many cousins have you killed? How many sons, and fathers, and brothers, No argument with you brothers but if you don't Would you leave this would behind? Mighty Achilles, silenced by a slave girl. Your private battle with Achilles is destroying us. Your name is written in sand, for the History remembers kings. Not soldiers! Achilles is one man. We need you back. Greece needs you. Achilles! Greece got along fine before I was born. And Greece will be Greece long I'm not talking about the land... The men's morale is weak! The men need you. Weak? They're Aren't you afraid? Everyone dies. Wheres Patroclus? I killed a boy today. He wore your armor... We were going to saill home today. I don't think anyone's sailing home now. That boy's just saved this war for us. Hector's my cousin, he's a good man. Don't fight him. I've seen Please don't fight him. Please. Killing's your only talent that's your curse. I'll make a pact with you. There are no pacts between lions and men. You won't have eyes tonight, you won't have ears or a tongue. You will wander the underworld blind, deaf and dumb and all the dead will know... This is Hector. The fool who thought he killed Achilles. Can I tell you a secret? Something they don't teach you in your temple. The gods envy us. They envy us, because we're mortal. Because any moment, might be our last... Everything's more beautiful because we're doomed. You will never be lovelier than you are now. We will never be here again. Why did you choose this life? What life? To be a great warrior. I chose nothing. I was born and this is what I am. Myrmidons. Look at these men. They are the fiercest soldiers in all of Greece. Each of them has bled for me. My brothers of Rouse the men you're taking them home. Aren't you coming with us? I'd rather fight beside you than any army of thousands. I have my own battle to fight. Let no man forget how menacing we are, we are Lions! Do you know what's there? Waiting, beyond that beach... Fighting for you has been my life's honor my lord. Immortality. Take it, it's yours! Men are haunted by And so we ask ourselves... Will our actions echo across the centuries? Will strangers hear our names, long after we're gone? And wonder who we were? How bravely we fought? How fiercely we loved? Are youready to fight? Are you ready to kill? To take life? If you go to Troy... You will never come home. For your glory walks hand in hand with your doom. It's all right. You gave me peace... In a lifetime of war. Men rise and fall like But these names will never die.