What type of story scares you the Perhaps something dark, visceral, rooted in physical danger? Or something subtle, Or maybe something unknowable, inexplicable, the cosmic terrors of the universe? The work of at the intersection of all our greatest fears. they can seem truly mysterious. So, what I of mystery, and explore what makes Junji Ito's we'll need to find our courage and dive Our first specimen from the inky depths of spider-like legs. The creature comes from the deeply innovative and utterly unhinged. The tale vacation in Okinawa, Japan. Returning from a scuba possessing what appear to be metallic legs. There could have come from, with Tadashi wondering if is just the beginning... On the beach later that spindly limbs -- a visual that is equal however, are merely scouts: the first wave of sightings of limbed marine life become a day's haul turns deadly and attacks the an ecosystem of ravenous terrors, with the narrative escalates at a breakneck pace, a great wave. Species from higher and higher up a trend that eventually results in a massive shark horror of a land shark trying to eat you, there's in this scene -- a feeling that you're seeing from the sea are a familiar trope, coming with set and when characters are safe. But "Gyo" destroys to hide from the creatures of the abyss. The helplessness, a certainty of extinction ...There's another story about dark things emerging understand the madness of Junji Ito's "Gyo." set in the wake of a cataclysm where entities And though the creatures emerged not from the sea the parallels between the apocalypses of "Death stories of worlds colliding -- of incompatible consequences. The clashing of worlds can be felt biological -- the incongruent elements forced There's a sense that the marine life in "Gyo" didn't ask to be dragged ashore, and are just One lesser-known short story of Junji Ito's, deeper into the horror and tragedy of a lifeform puzzle piece in understanding how Ito and "Death the corpse of a massive creature washing up on the serpent, although decompression from rising from Its body is bloated and rotting, with a head come to watch this shipwrecked creature decompose, sea who serves as the narrator. For much of his the deep ocean -- cursed with distressing visions The dreams started following a traumatic trip sea fish his mind wasn't ready to perceive. In have a peculiar connection, with both suffering The theme of environmental suffering in "The real tragic phenomenon. Throughout history, observed beaching themselves, then collapsing have worsened due to the invention of sonar, and is where "Death Stranding" gets its title from. Stranding" parallel the marooned creatures of survivors inhabiting the post-apocalyptic world way. In the wake of the cataclysmic clash of inhospitable land reminiscent of the sea floor. this new environment, their bodies not built for Thing That Drifted Ashore," the onlookers notice a layer of transparent skin, human beings stare the onlookers are shocked to discover the people from seven years prior, they somehow became of the leviathan after being swallowed. Like of staring into the abyss through the creature's There are some things humans are not meant that defy all reason. The crowd in "The Thing" theorizing how it might have moved through the it. Likewise, multiple explanations for the limbed experiment gone wrong to a natural phenomenon, of what makes Junji Ito's horror worldbuilding reader. Without a clear sense of how a threat letting you experience terrors on the creator of "Death Stranding," Hideo Kojima, hours upon hours dedicated to explaining how its actually makes a cameo in one of these expository evident. But Junji Ito's own horror rarely grants the depths of the sea, reading his work can feel And perhaps no story wields the terror of the Fault." The setup is deceptively simple: an and upon the rockface, foreboding holes shaped People from across the nation are drawn to the Each of the thousands of holes appears to extend no indication as to where they came from. They in the crowd start to realize that certain holes they are overcome with a compulsion to enter depths. There's an unbearable sense of making it impossible not to imagine what it would unable to move. Beyond this physical terror, can't escape the impulse to trap themselves, their becomes all-consuming. It's really grim stuff. the situation can be, there's an absurdity to the This humor is present in the margins of a lot of reconcile with the disturbing subject matter. But central to appreciating why these stories are so "House." [Sounds of Chaos] Directed by Nobuhiko blend of horror and comedy, the film involves a woman in the remote countryside. This seemingly as common household objects attack the group, the eats someone, another character has a fight with teleported inside an evil clock. It can seem like of Junji Ito, there's a method to the madness. The more visceral and unexpected. Because you're it's hard to relax. Compared to Ito's horror, this the point where it can outright break your brain. kick a cat painting, which destroys the spirit of or it was the painting, but then the cat was so she's destroyed, but then it turns out, not sound like they were written by a child... they daughter, as he believed the irrational thoughts a more intrinsic level. Yes, much of "House" is a lack of reason, and if you can't reason At the end of "The Enigma of Amigara Fault," every hole they were made for. Months later, a research of the mountain -- but the holes are no longer horrifically twisted is creeping slowly closer. with no explanations. No resolution. Just the ...If there's a culmination to Junji Ito's work, I'd say it's probably a little story but "Uzumaki" is one of the longest Ito ever unsettling. The narrative is centered on a city takes the form of... spirals. Yes, spirals. Every another to this simple pattern. And if that sounds The spirals start small. A man becomes obsessed for hours. Tiny whirlpools appear in the city's to horribly contort into the spiral shape. The in the city becoming infected. Buildings loop Plants grow in endless, dizzying twirls. Even clouds becoming a dark omen of the city's fate. is how helpless the main characters are in the Like the shape itself, there's an inevitability things will only get worse and worse. The story of media have achieved. [Music] If "Uzumaki" has a you feel similarly insignificant in the face of "World of Horror." Created by Polish developer is all about making the player feel as defenseless a city afflicted by enigmatic entities known explicitly inspired by the work of Junji Ito, and through one of his stories. You're constantly on dwindling sanity and stamina as you experience a generated order. It's not really a game that Play for long enough, and some form of dark fate of a spoiler to say that "Uzumaki" has a similar there's no winning against something so irrational chapter, there's some explanation as to where the less like an answer and more like another Balancing ambiguity and irrationality with genuine concepts near their breaking point in "Hellstar a planet that appears in Earth's solar system celestial object turns out to be something else and beholds the Earth. Ito's reoccurring theme of extreme in these panels, with Earth rendered attempts by humans to understand the interstellar the entire population. And from there, well, to have a rather large appetite. It's some truly be too much for some people. But Junji Ito's be so surreal and at times even ludicrous that Junji Ito's more lighthearted works is his "Cat over his fear of his wife's cats. And while the art is still so comically unsettling -- cosmic terrors. To me, this is Ito reminding us not a bug -- an essential part of what makes his stories are an exercise in tonal contradictions, Despite many attempts, most translations of his missing something. Even something as simple as his delicate balance of ambiguity. That's why one episode from a recent Netflix anthology that short story tells the tale of someone returning has taken over the foundations. The lack of color as it's difficult to tell what the mold really from each scene preserves that uncertainty, that the house. The visuals work so well, I honestly stick to black and white. Adult Swim has been for a long, long time, and I sincerely hope it's dream of a perfect adaptation that recaptures is difficult to let go of. But ultimately, Junji artist has been quoted as saying that he'll spend the image perfectly captures the terror of what every line -- that relentless attention to detail analyze. Yet at the same time, his stories often that absurdity is just as much a part of life as legs kicking a cat painting, Junji Ito's art ambiguity and irrationality -- as difficult to for watching. If you enjoyed this entry, please hitting the notification icon to stay up to date