It's November 30th, 1951, in the skies over the Korean peninsula. A formation of 9 Chinese Tu-2 bombers rumbles through the clouds, moving towards their target on the island of Cho-Do. Around them are 16 La-11 fighter escorts keeping them safe through hostile skies. They're cruising along when suddenly a burst of bullets falls from the heavens and tears through one of the bombers, before the Chinese can even react the attacker cuts through the formation from above, he's followed by 7 more enemies which pounce on the Chinese aviators. Tracers fill the once-calm sky as the Chinese La-11s and the American F-86 Sabres clash in a chaotic dogfight. The Sabres quickly find themselves unable to focus on the bombers as they fend off multiple enemy fighters simultaneously. But then a Tu-2 explodes in midair, torn to shreds from below without any warning. The same Sabre from the start cuts through the middle of the bombers, fearlessly charging through heavy fire with total disregard for his own life. The mysterious aviator comes right back for another run and fires a single short burst. It strikes dead on target and another bomber bursts into flames. This pilot is Squadron Leader and WW2 Ace, Major George Andrew Davis. The tide turns against the La-11s, their pilots are unable to make up for their shortcomings. The Chinese squadron is fighting for their lifes when a group of MiG 15s arrive to the rescue. The MiGs pounce upon the unsuspecting Americans, their leader easily getting on the 6'o clock of the Sabre of 1st. Lt. Raymond Barton. The MiG fires multiple times, striking the American fighter on the wings and cockpit, but failing to take him down. Barton performs evasive maneuvers as he requests aid on the radio, the MiG's 23 and 37mm shells are zipping past his canopy. Davis heeds the call. He dives into action and quickly sees the dogfight but cannot differentiate between the two jets, their profile is just too similar at this distance. Davis orders Barton to maneuver left and right on his mark. He observes carefully, identifies the plane not following his instructions, and pounces. He sweeps down from above and unleashes his 6.50 caliber machine guns upon the enemy jet, the barrage strikes square on the enemy's cockpit, taking him out instantly and saving Barton's life. At the end of the day the squadron suffered no losses and was credited with 8 victories. Davis claimed 3 of them, bringing his tally to 5 and making him the first ever American to become an Ace in two wars. But back at base Davis is far from the daring and wild killer he's in the air, in fact he's the complete opposite. He's quiet and reserved, never drinks, smokes, never brags about his accomplishments and skills despite being a serious candidate for the best pilot of his age. This juxtaposition on top of being a WW2 ace made him a legend amongst the force. His experience earned him command of the 334th Fighter Squadron of the 4th Fighter wing. He excelled at the post, leading by example, and demanding strict discipline amongst his men. Under his leadership, the squadron became one of the best battling for the Korean skies. Davis grew to be so valuable that he became irreplaceable, it was protocol for Aces to be recalled back to the US, for their safety, and so they can teach their skills to the next generation of pilots, but Davis is so instrumental in his role that the Air Force can't find anyone to take his place. And so, he remains fighting in Korea and seeing more action than ever. Just half a month after becoming an Ace, he becomes a Double Ace, claiming his 10th victory on December 13th. But that was all to change on February 10th, 1952. Davis is flying in formation with 3 fellows from his squadron. They're providing cover for a group of F-84 Thunderjets across the infamous MiG Alley, where MiG patrols are so common and numerous that Sabers rarely venture into it in formations smaller than 12. Davis is feeling confident, however, and had dispersed his 16-man squadron into 4-man flights to cover a wider area for bombers following behind. But just as they approach Mig Alley, disaster strikes in Davis' flight. One of his men, codenamed Red-3, reports an Oxygen failure and must return to base. They are arranged in pairs of leaders and wingmen, which means that if Red-3 retreats, Red-4 must too follow. But they don't have an option and the pair turn back to base and the 4-man flight is reduced in half just as they take the highway to the danger zone over the Yalu River. Charging into MiG Alley with nothing but your wingman for immediate assistance would take the breath away for any other pilot, but Davis isn't any pilot and continues with his characteristic fearlessness. His wingman, 1st Lt. Littlefield, is keenly aware of the danger they're putting themselves in, but trusts his Squadron Leader's judgement and bravely follows without question or hesitation. It doesn't take them long before they spot a 5 MiG squadron to the north, and then 10 more north-west shortly after. Davis evaluates the contacts and realizes the 10 MiGs are headed straight towards the incoming Thunderjets. They push the throttle to full and the pair races to intercept. They approach unseen from above and Davis pounces upon the enemy without hesitation, Littlefield in tow. The MiGs spot them at the last moment and scatter for their lives, but one of them has a split second hesitation and pays the price. Davis lights him up with his trademark accuracy, striking the enemy and turning it into a flying fireball. Davis pulls out of his dive and instantly lands his crosshairs onto a second target; he pulls the trigger, and it too falls under the Saber's deadly volley. Davis then immediately sets off after a third. It's a daring move, he's lost speed and maneuvering for another kill will only keep him slow and vulnerable, but he's so close, and is confident these Chinese won't be good enough to take advantage of it. He keeps up the chase, maneuvering sharply left and right, getting closer to a straight shot but also he's bleeding away more and more speed. Unknown by Davis, another MiG unit is patrolling the region far above, and among its ranks is Chinese ace Jang Jihui. They spot the two MiGs going down in flames below them and swiftly dive into battle, Jang leading the charge. They accelerate towards the swarm of battling planes and tracers, the chaos making it difficult to pick out friend from foe, but in between it all he spots a single slow-flying jet, sporting the unmistakable yellow stripes of a Sabre. Davis is still focused on the MiG ahead when a shell strikes him from above. Littlefield is battling hard against the swarm of MiGs when he sees his Leader out of control and engulfed in smoke. Enemies descend on the wounded machine and Littlefield rushes to cover him. he desperately fights MiGs off Davis' tail and he follows him all the way down to the ground, but no parachute ever opens and the Sabre crashes into the earth. Lt. Littlefield cannot believe his eyes, but before he can dwell on the events a shell fires past his canopy, the swarm of MiGs is now on his tail. Littlefield slams to full throttle and escapes the scene, dodging shots all over. He dashes left and right desperately maneuvering for his life, but he can't shake them, there are just too many. In a last ditch attempt he sends his Sabre straight into a clouds and turns sharply inside them, finally managing to throw off his pursuers. But then the adrenalin wears off and reality of what has transpired sets in. He takes his radio and reports the unthinkable. "Base. Base... This is Red 2... Red 1 is down." Davis' actions successfully dispersed the interceptors, and the bombers were able to execute their mission unopposed, but at what cost? His loss was greatly felt across the Air Force and stateside. By the end of the war, he was still ranked the fourth deadliest pilot of the conflict at 14 victories, only surpassed after his death. With his WW2 service he raked up a total of 21 confirmed victories throughout his life. George Andrew Davis would be posthumously promoted to Lieutenant Colonel, as well as awarded the Congressional Medal of Honor and a Purple Heart for his valiant actions on that fateful day, added to the already extensive list of medals he'd earned in life. They would be received by his wife and three children at a ceremony in Reese Air Force base. If you haven't yet, please subscribe to the channel and please watch more videos of ours. Thank you!