- This is grapefruit- I would like literally it smells so good. I really did spray myself. It smells good though! I'm not mad about it. (laughs) (upbeat music) - If you love cooking, I'm talking dishes, - Cleaning might be unavoidable but we've tested some that will actually make and keep your tools in tip-top shape. - That's right, choosing can actually help you clean less. So Lisa and I are going to show you some of our favorite cleaning tips and tools. - First up, Hannah. - All right, no home cleaning without some dish soap, to shove everything in the dishwasher, you can't always do that. Or you might not have one. Dish soaps are very amazing inventions and they work by a little called surfactants. Surfactants have heads that attract water and tails that attract oil, And this is what washes your dishes. Surfactants can be derived and experts we spoke with told us from an effectiveness perspective it doesn't matter where they come from. It matters more the individual formula and quality of the surfactants Witnessing this testing was brand loyal to our Because it was amazing it is than other soaps. We made a total mess in this testing, burning on all kinds of things and one of the things we Because it has so much sugar in it it can be a total pain to Mrs. Meyer's soap cleaned teriyaki sauce more than two times faster It's also 97% naturally derived. So this is one of the Dawn, for example, Dawn was in our lineup. It did really well on cleaning but Dawn is derived from petroleum. So this is a more eco-friendly choice. Mrs. Meyer's can be a little if you just buy a single But I actually buy them which makes them much more cost-effective. And I buy them and refill them. They have these bulk I've actually had this It looks pretty good still. And you can buy it and refill this. So there are ways to make All right, now let's head over to the sink and I'm going to show you One of the things we learned is if you want your dishes Slightly- I'm not talking overnight. Here we go, little soap. (jazzy music) So easy. All right, so next up, paper towels. One of my most favorite And that is because the outcome blew my mind. We tested 12 different We looked at everything We tested them on six different surfaces. We cleaned out wineglasses We drained bacon. There's more, I'm not Point is we tested the And we learned so many interesting things. The first thing: select It doesn't matter. It's up to you, personal preference. Do you want to be able to Or do you just want a That's up to you. Beyond that brand really, really matters. Our winner here from Bounty It is much more absorbent, You can really scrub one of We found a single full could hold a quarter cup of water. That's about twice as much in our lineup. It's also a double ply which means they didn't which is really nice. You don't want lint on And get this- this is All of these brands- they have a budget line and then they have their flagship line. So Bounty has the which is cheaper when you buy one roll compared to the flagship Bounty roll. But get this, it actually We ripped off single sheets, counted the sheets per Bounty is actually cheaper It's also cheaper and more because it is so strong and durable. You can grab one sheet to do something. With smaller rolls, thinner rolls- Check this one out. Look at that. With this roll, you're to contain a spill. With Bounty you just grab one and done. It might cost a couple more cents per roll but you're actually saving money in the long run with Bounty. Cleaning sprays are another tool we love to make cleaning easier They are comprised of Surfactants, which go in Solvents which are cleaning agents. And buffering agents which go in and they to help the cleaning to the mess, which helps All right, so our winner was right here. This is the Method all-purpose cleaner. It's half full because this is mine. 'Cause I use this at home ever since witnessing this testing. It is effective, smells good. They come in all different scents. Smell was kind of a big thing here. Some of them were really powerful. Whether it was like or whether it was like Some of them really- woo! Slapped you across the face. This one was effective and that we could smell but It took a very minimal number of sprays to be effective at You know, some of these things to get something clean. And it also made cleaning fast It was so good at breaking things up. Much like, you know, with dish soaps it can be petroleum derived This is a naturally derived product, which is very nice. It doesn't leave any streaks behind. And it doesn't damage the And we actually did see some of the really left the surfaces smelling stinky too. Which you don't want that. Other ones that had bleach in them, they actually dappled the surface of some of our wooden testing surfaces. You don't want that either. You want something that's effective but not harmful to your surfaces. And our winner here from Method really just nailed it You should have seen were just out of this world. We cleaned the stove tops and which is like, it's a People are cooking in there There was a huge range in Our winner here took eight completely clean compared for some of the other models. That's a huge difference. The other test we did that we exploded tomato sauce I've definitely done that unintentionally. You might have to. So we did that test 'cause you Some of it gets cooked on. Tomato sauce is sugary, When you're dealing you want it over as quickly And finding the right help you clean up messes like that faster. And Method aced it on that test too. All right, now let's go check out Lisa. (upbeat music) - One of the most important things that you're going to be using- at least I use every single day when I'm I use it to wash dishes, Basically clean everything. I started here. We tested 10 sponges of and shapes and sizes. And this was the best. The O-Cedar scrunge, which but it's a great sponge. And it's a scrubber, so scrunge. And I kind of thought, eh, you know, aside from the really like how much better is this sponge than any other normal kitchen sponge? I'm here to tell you it is so much better. It's a good size. It's not oversized or undersized. The really small ones and trying to hold with our fingertips. The big ones couldn't This one has a really winning and then this acrylic scrubbing surface. It's got ripples in it and The texture helped us get It really does a better job at cleaning, but then it also rinses clean really well. Things don't get in there and stay there. Normal kitchen sponges they get kind of smelly, You can never really get them clean. You chuck them out, you get a new one. This one lasts so much longer. We also tested how much they absorbed. And this was one of the most absorbent. We had one that was made out of silicone and obviously it absorbed zero- nothing. We had another one that was covered with this sort of plushy fur. Which seems super nice, and full of biscuit dough wet teddy bear. Do not buy that sponge. So a few years ago, people They learned that and that maybe they I'm here to tell you that we We took the same sponges that we used and we set them to one side, still wet, like people do where they'll and then leave it face down in And then we did the same and squeezed it out really well. The difference is amazing. It's called colony The ones that were still dirty and left in a pool of moisture grew like 300,000 colony versus about 20. So 300,000... 20. This is what you want to do. (chuckling) You want to squeeze out your sponge. You want to rinse out your sponge and it will keep going for a long time. And it's perfectly safe I have one that I bought This one I've been using for two months and I rinse it out and I The only thing that's is that I have really sharp knives and I've cut little corners The back is perfectly fine. I used it this morning. It's in great shape. Totally worth it, these So when you've got messes that even our amazing that's when we turn to a scrub brush. Now we tested nine of these It is also by O-Cedar, and it's the O-Cedar Rinse It has a lot of features that we love and that really made a difference. These bristles are made of plastic and they are clumped together with wide spaces in between. So when you rinse it, it The bristles are just stiff and cut through gunky things The handle is a good shape. It's got this little curve out of the hot water We had two other styles Ones that were straight out And ones that went straight up. None of those gave us and the good leverage and without making our elbows or wrists get into weird positions. It's got a nice size too. It's not too skinny. Some of them were like little toothpicks. The real winning part of this thing is this row in the back. It has an extra stiff, And these got down between on a grill pan and got all out of there, the grease, the It could get into anything and it didn't damage the seasoning. Which is kind of an amazing feat. You want it really scrubbing, but you don't want to just So you can't go in there The scrub brush is the answer. I often will take a cast iron take the food out of it before I will put it in the sink and I'll scrub with this brush, rinse it. It's back on that same warm burner to dry, wipe it with a towel and if necessary, and you're done. Your pan is already washed So this thing has come in really handy. One of the questions that we get a lot is how do you clean wooden utensils? Like wooden spoons or cutting or any of the things you made of wood. I have a wooden spoon here This is just one I happen to have around. It's pretty dry and parched looking. Our favorites are the and the Faay teak thirteen Both of them are really terrific. You don't ever want to and part out or submerge You want to wash them fairly pat them dry and use mineral And that keeps the wood in great shape. So you just want to use a little use your hands if you want to, because honestly it's really And just rub it in. Get the whole thing- get the You know, a cutting board, the same way. Do the sides, do the bottom, do the top. And then leave it somewhere that it can fully dry and sink in. You want that oil to absorb as deeply into the wood as you can. You can't taste it. Mineral oil is safe for you to eat. (chuckles) It's funny 'cause it says lubricant and laxative. So you don't want to but it's not going to hurt you. It's not like motor oil or something. And it's really good for the wood and basically keeps your wooden tools in the best shape they can be in. It will help prevent cracking. It will help prevent staining. It really brings it back to new. And will keep it going for years to come. A lot of people ask me how do you keep stainless Or any cookware or even your sink? You know, I have a steel sink and it can get kind of stained looking. Our secret is Bar Keepers Friend. If you know, you know. I know some of you already use this. If you don't already- go get some. I get this at the hardware, It's a big can. It's a cleanser and it's for ceramic, copper, brass, fiberglass, Corian, chrome, aluminum. It will get under any kind of and leaves your stainless Don't use it on cast iron it You don't want to get so it's a good idea to wear some gloves. It is really good, I use it on everything. I use it to clean my This is my beloved All-Clad D3 stainless This is our favorite, our I've had this for about 15 years and this is what happens to the bottom. Gets kind of brown. And for people who like as a decorative thing between cooking you want to get that like this side. The active ingredient is oxalic acid which really cuts through and rust and all kinds of things. I've got my pan wet, I'm plenty of Bar Keepers Friend. Now normally I would do this in the sink but I want you to be able to see. As you scrub... Oh, this is kind of amazing. This little silver spot is I'm just going to do a little more and then I'm going to This is so satisfying, honestly. In just a couple seconds I've got this like reflective, shiny spot. And I will show you. Look at that. You saw it right here, couple of seconds and that brown stuff that it's gone. The people in our dish use it all the time. They're geniuses at getting anything clean and this is what they like to use. So I'm like, &quot;Hey, I'm getting some too.&quot; And I love it. - All right, so cleaning sucks. But with the right gear you can get it done faster and easier. - For more information we talked about, check - Yep, make sure to like this video, leave us your cleaning and hit that subscribe button.