This is the best area to stay in Paris, and this from each other! I'm French, I live in Paris and that only locals know about, and also a few areas one is the touristy part of Montmartre. So you probably totally fine to visit, especially late at night, do feel like you're in the movie &quot;Midnight in because there's way too many tourists during the of Montmatre people don't know about though and that north of Montmartre, about a 10 minute walk away from has to be one of the coolest and most underrated Parisian. So this is an area where actual locals go typical Montmatre staircases, especially around the metro station. There's also the Montmatre Vineyard nearby, which I personally find really cute. And there's neighborhood bars. Then number six in the list least favorite neighborhoods in Paris, that's a bit Latin Quarter. So you've probably read about it in but not during my lifetime, that's for sure. I feel so bad, and they're just really overpriced. What French experience at the Ratatouille ride at Disney short walk to this area around the Odeon and Mabillon Luxembourg which is one of my favorite parks. It spending time there, like reading a book or having nearby that I really recommend. And if you want bottles to go. And as you can see this neighborhood good Michelin star restaurants in the area, and craziness. And number five in areas to avoid is and Gare de l'Est. And I'm making a big generalization in Europe tend to be a bit on the shadier side. you want to be in a well-connected, central stay in South Pigalle, fifth best area to stay in, in the red light district, but don't let that scare know; there are obvious remnants of this era, now that has so many different restaurants and bars cheap one, I recommend Bouillon Pigalle, which we went good typical French food, for a really cheap price. there's so many clubs, and cool cocktail bars. But chill and would rather sit at a cafe with a Museum of romantic life &quot;Musee de la vie romantique&quot;, it is indeed very romantic they have a really cute courtyard with a lot of flowers, and nice little tables. And it's you stay here, as I was telling you, it's super well parts of Paris. Then an area I wouldn't recommend to be really, nice a while back. If you come from a fine there. Actually, one of my good friends lived many many times, and I've felt pretty safe. But if bit unsafe to you. So what I recommend instead, around the Canal Saint Martin. This is really one by the canal, a lot of my favorite bakeries so good, I used to live around there as a student, many other cool wine bars, brunch spots, cafes. Qlso if an Apero: just take a bottle of wine, a few cheeses. You then sit by the canal, and just have a drink there. France to drink in public. And this area also has from the canal to the Seine river. Or if you're all the way up. Also you'll be just a short go to other European countries. And if you're check out today's sponsor, Klook. Klook is a website destinations around the world, including Paris and the UK. So I've lived in London and I really recommend to be Scotland. Last year I took one of the most probably seen this train ride in the Harry Potter plan, since there are just so many stops to choose and you can book this experience, and many others running a special offer with exclusive deals for can get up to 50% off of your UK activities if Plus you'll get an additional discount if you walk away from the canal Saint Martin, is another the Republique area. It's a perfectly fine area, it's hot spot for protests in France. So it tends to I used to go by Republique, a lot and it was insane: sometimes people being violent and throwing stuff there if you can. Instead just go a bit more south, to each other. So it's really easy to stay in bit more south, and stay in the north of the Marais for you. Le Marais neighborhood is already known to famous Place des Vosges. But the north of this area is really super close to the action. It's an area where a like going to this shoe shop called bobbie's, but different French brands. Also it's such a great also if you love history. There's so many museums you stay there you have to check out Marche des Enfants Rouges. It's that I really like. And there's a lot of different atmosphere. And I personally often bring people really cool truffle restaurant called Artisan lunch menus. Also if you stay in this area, you'll can for example go to Notre Dame in 20 minutes walk anywhere you want, which brings me to number is the overall outskirts of Paris. So if you're I personally don't think it's a good idea, because out on all the really cool walks, and really cute from the outskirts, and if you want to check out second favorite area to stay in in Paris which favorite neighborhoods to stay in, but also one perspective, I understand that it looks a tiny bit few people who watched the channel and stayed in just take my word for it, it is a really cool because it is a traditional working class French has been an immigrant neighborhood for around 200 you'll find delicious food from places like China, French bars, and also quite a few trendy spots because the past few years. Also walking in Belleville is really galleries, and there's also my favorite view of the of Belleville, you have a really nice view over all in the distance. And the best thing is, no one knows we're arriving at my least favorite neighborhood, favorite neighborhood to stay in, that I see in always avoid this area, it is too busy, the shopping there, you know, you can find them at home. You a lot of offices around, and the local life there local life is really cool, is my favorite area to if you're a regular here, I've talked about it before. stay in. And I've met a few of you in the street loved it. It actually used to be a countryside Paris in the middle of the 19th century. And I do of really cute streets, and buildings, beautiful go to. And there's also a lot of cool food options you can see in my other videos. And I feel it's a There's people from all ages, from little kids there's not only French people there, you can hear streets. I personally really love living there Also it's a very hidden gem, not a lot of people the best area to stay in when you're coming to I'll see you in one of these two videos, that are