- I met Saul in the 1950s, 1956. I was a young 23-year-old at the University of Chicago and he came to visit one of the classes that a friend of mine taught And we had coffee afterwards in awe of him at that time. I'd read &quot;Augie March&quot; The first time was in college when it was like nothing And then when I got to a few years earlier, I read it again. It was my guidebook to Chicago. He was a great literary hero of mine. Well, he was always dressed very dapperly, very sharp, in the Chicago way. He was very handsome, had these wonderful face. He could be very biting, as we know. When I first knew him, with me and so he could be very biting and didn't make any difference to me, I was in love with him. And we didn't really become friends till Saul and Janis moved to Vermont, which was not that far from and we began to see each other. And then I would make an annual pilgrimage with some friends to Vermont. We stayed in a nearby inn with the Bellows and that was Then I saw him when he came to New York and we spoke on the - &quot;Augie March&quot; was a revolutionary book. Its fullness, it wasn't just abundant, it was super abundant, and there was a ferocious energy, there was a kind of inspired carelessness. It wasn't a weak carelessness, it was an audacious carelessness. &quot;Herzog&quot; was an ingenious book. Ingenious in its inventions, of those letters that he and ingenious in its depth of feeling. And above all, of course, Saul The principle fascination not the narrator necessarily, but the great Brobdingnagian the great big figures that surround him. And Saul was very moved energetic, audacious people. And those people wind up in the books and they're great fun to read about. And this is the Chicago-ness of the books. He got something of the, what I think that's the phrase The moronic inferno of of popular culture. All that came through in - Yeah, well, that was But yes, he did like transgressive souls. He did like people who spoke audaciously, who spoke at whatever level of discourse, who spoke creatively, even monstrously. The monstrous in human In a crucial place in &quot;Herzog,&quot; he happens to be in the court building and he has time to waste where they're trying a man and The lover of the woman had against the wall, smashed his brains out and Herzog sits there watching and when he leaves the courtroom, he says, &quot;I fail to understand. So he was shaken by the monstrousness. When I see monstrous characters, I wasn't speaking of that The 20th century, the first in America literature is William Faulkner and Saul Bellow. Saul extends into the second, third quarter of the century too. But the two major figures are the backbone of American literature in the 20th century was Faulkner and Bellow. And you could say Faulkner Well, he was a southern writer. But his importance is a big and a powerhouse, Saul was a powerhouse. Faulkner was a powerhouse. Melville was a powerhouse. Henry James was a powerhouse. There are only three or four who could say have great power and force, conviction, - Absolutely, he's the very His books knocked you over. He has great power. The power of language, the the power of engaging deep issues, power of deep contemplation, the power of considerable erudition. There are very few tools that You know, he had a big toolbox. - Yes. He threw his head back. I think it would roll off, you know? He'd throw his head way back and laugh. He loved to be amused. He was amused often. He was outraged, just as often. He could be angry, he He could be intolerant, I thought. He could be narrow-minded. He was a man. But he had a great capacity for pleasure for the sensuous life, a and for of course, for He had a great mental life. There was once a joke that Saul And it was a very simple It's about two guys One guy's coming from this direction, one guy's coming from this direction. And one says the other one, &quot;Excuse me, do you pronounce the And the guy says, &quot;Havaii.&quot; He says, &quot;Thank you.&quot; He says, &quot;You're velcome.&quot; (both laugh) So when you tell me, &quot;Thank you,&quot; I was tempted to say, &quot;You're velcome.&quot; It's the essential joke. It's the first joke I (gentle music)