- [Voiceover] Beneath the the rules of our universe - This solid bridge supports my weight, the water flowing underneath and when I throw this stone it always flies through the air - [Voiceover] But as into the tiny building blocks of matter all such certainty vanished. They found the weird world - Deep down inside we found a universe To paraphrase one of the everything we call real, cannot be themselves regarded as real. - [Voiceover] Around 100 years ago, some of the world's greatest scientists began a journey down the rabbit hole into the strange and the bizarre. They found that in the things could be in two places at once, that their fates are dictated by chance, and that reality itself - And at stake, that about the world might turn out to be completely wrong. (coin rattling) - [Voiceover] The story of our descent into scientific madness begins with a most unlikely object. Berlin, 1890. Germany is a new country, recently unified and hungry to industrialize. - In this newly unified Germany a number of new engineering They had spent millions for Edison's new - [Voiceover] The light of modern technology. A great optimistic symbol of progress. Engineering companies quickly realized there were fortunes to be made building streetlights for But what they didn't realize was that they would also unleash a scientific revolution. - Strangely enough, this humble object is responsible for the birth in the whole of science, A theory that I've spent my life studying. - [Voiceover] And that's because, back in 1900, the light bulb presented a rather strange problem. Engineers knew that if with electricity, it glowed. The physics that underpinned this though, was completely unknown. - But something as basic between the temperature of the filament and the color of light it produces was still a complete mystery. - [Voiceover] A mystery they And with the help of the new German state, they saw how to steal a - In 1887, the German in a new technical research The Physikalisch-Technische Then, in 1900, they enlisted a bright, if somewhat straight-laced his name was Max Planck. - [Voiceover] Planck took on why the color of the light changes as the filament gets hotter. - To get a sense of the I'm going to ride this bicycle powered by an old-fashioned dynamo. (classical music) Obviously the faster I go, The more I pedal, the more electricity the dynamo produces, the hotter the filament in the lamp, and the brighter the light. - [Voiceover] But the light the bulb makes isn't just getting brighter, it's changing color too. As I speed up, the color shifts from red, to orange, to yellow. - Right, now I'm going to really belt it. - [Voiceover] Now the bulb's filament is getting even hotter. But although it certainly gets brighter, the color seems to stay Why doesn't the light get any bluer? (suspenseful music) To investigate, Planck and a black-body radiator. It's a special tube they could heat to a very precise temperature and a way to measure of the light it produced. Nowadays, over a hundred years later, the PTR still do exactly just much more accurately. - The temperature inside here I can feel the heat coming off, and it's glowing with a - [Voiceover] It's about the when I'm cycling slowly. But I want to see something hotter still. - The temperature inside here is about 2,000 degrees Centigrade. And it's glowing with a much brighter, whiter color of light. To produce light of requires a power of about 40 kilowatts. Now, that's equivalent to cycling very fast, or the combined output of - [Voiceover] Although the There's very little blue. Why is blue so much And further up the spectrum, beyond blue, the so-called ultraviolet, Even when we look at - Even the sun, at a temperature of five and a half thousand produces mostly white visible light, and makes remarkably given how hot it is. Why is this? Why is ultraviolet light so hard to make? This remarkable failure of common sense so perplexed scientists that they gave it a very dramatic name, they called it the - [Voiceover] Planck to solving this. He found the precise mathematical link between the color of light, its frequency, and its energy. But he didn't understand the connection. However, it was another weird anomoly that would really put the - In the late 19th century, that their newly discovered radio waves and how they were transmitted, and to do that they were very similar to this one. Basically, by spinning this disc they could generate huge voltages that cause sparks to jump across the gap between the two metal spheres. But in doing so, they discovered something very unexpected to do with light. They found that by shining on the spheres, they could make the sparks jump across more easily. This suggested a mysterious, between light and electricity. To understand what was happening, scientists used this, it's called a gold-leaf electroscope. It's basically a more sensitive version of the spark gap apparatus. Now, first of all I have to charge it up. What I'm doing is adding that are pushing the Now, first I take red light and shine it on the metal surface. And nothing happens. Even if I increase the still the gold leaves aren't affected. - [Voiceover] Now I'll try rich in ultraviolet. - Immediately, the gold leaves collapse. (electricity humming and cracking) - [Voiceover] Light can clearly remove static electric charge from the leaves. It can somehow knock out the But why is ultraviolet at doing this than red light? This new puzzle became known as the photo-electric effect. The ultraviolet catastrophe, and the photo-electric effect, were big problems for physicists. Because neither could be understood using the best science of the time. The science that said, that light was a wave. - All around us, we see light behaving in a perfectly common sense, wavy way. Look at the shadow of my hand, it's fuzzy around the edges. - [Voiceover] We understand this as the light hitting the sides of my hand and bending and smearing out slightly. Just like water waves - Perfectly common sense, - [Voiceover] And here's something else, something rather beautiful. Look at these soap bubbles. Shine a light on them, and emerge from nowhere. And this was easily explained if you accept that light was a wave, reflecting off the outer and inner layers of the thin soap film, and breaking up into the Rather like ripples on light was simply ripples of energy, spreading through space. And this was as firmly that the Earth was round. But although this wave for shadows and bubbles, when it came to the and the photo-electric effect, the wheels started coming off. - The problem was this, how could light do this? To truly grasp how absurd it might be useful to consider how waves in water behave. Hey! - [Voiceover] This is the wave tank at the RNLI's headquarters in Dorset. It's used to train lifeboat teams to deal with a range of First, small waves, just - These waves don't have much energy, hardly enough energy to knock this top can off the other. - [Voiceover] But when the waves grow to over a meter and a half, it's a very different proposition. - And they're nearly throwing me about. There's now way I can keep (chuckles) - [Voiceover] It's clear what Bigger, more intense They easily knock me and the cans around. So if light was a wave, more intensity should knock out more electrons. But that's not what happened. Remember, no matter how it still didn't budge but, weirdly, weak ultraviolet worked within seconds. So thinking of light as a wave just wasn't adding up. - To resolve this, someone and in 1905 someone did. You may well have heard of him, his name was Albert Einstein. - [Voiceover] This is the in Berlin. Perched on top is a strange, huge, iron and steel construction. But it's not a gun, it's actually a telescope. Built in 1896, the telescope of its kind in the world. And made the observatory the go-to place to engage and astound the - Albert Einstein gave a very on his theory of relativity, which is of course what But it's not the work that (dramatic instrumental music) - [Voiceover] In 1905, he'd to explain the photo-electric effect. And what he suggested was revolutionary, and even heretical. - He argued that we have to forget all about the idea that light is a wave, and think of it instead bullet-like particles. The term he used to was a quantum. To Einstein, a quantum and although in 1905 the word wasn't new, the idea that light could And yet, following Einstein's to its logical conclusion, solved all the problems with - I'll try to explain how this Of course, like all analogies, but hopefully it'll give to help you understand as a stream of particles solves the mystery of the In this analogy, these red balls represent Einstein's light quanta. - [Voiceover] And those cans over there are the electricity held in the metal. - Now, in the original experiment, they made electricity flow by shining light on it. In my analogy I'm going to try and knock those tin cans over (upbeat instrumental music) - [Voiceover] Absolutely no effect. That's just like red light. According to Einstein, carries very little energy, because red light has a low frequency. So even a very bright red light, with many red light particles, can't dislodge any electrons Just like the red balls. - Now I'm going to use heavier balls, like these blue golf balls, and I'm going to try and knock - [Voiceover] They're in the experiment. Now, each individual light particle carries more energy. Because ultraviolet light (upbeat instrumental music) Just a few of them, like are enough to knock the and collapse the gold leaf. - So Einstein's idea that light is made up of tiny particles, or quanta, is a wonderful explanation I remember when I first learnt about this, being blown away by its sheer (electricity humming) - [Voiceover] But what's more, Einstein's nifty idea also of the light bulb. There was more red than ultraviolet because ultraviolet quanta took About a hundred times more energy. No wonder there are so few of them. - [Graham] That moment, at the signaled a genuine revolution. Because it demonstrated that the kind of physical science that people were doing, right back to Newton and LaPlace, and people like that, that you needed a completely new approach. Physics has never in the sense that it's That's where modern physics really began. - [Voiceover] But Einstein's theory also left physicists defying all common sense. Light was definitely a wave, which explained shadows and bubbles, and now it was definitely a particle too. Einstein's quanta explaining and the ultraviolet catastrophe. - Then just a few years after Einstein's brilliant, crazy idea, the paradox got a lot deeper, and a whole lot weirder. - [Voiceover] Because what seemed to be a curious mystery about light was about to become a battleground about the nature of reality itself. (jazz music) 1922, the western world was a cultural revolution. - James Joyce's Ulysses is published, Stravinsky is at the height of his powers, and Chaplin has just released The Ottoman empire collapses. Europe is still recovering in which millions of men lost their lives. Russia is newly communist. Meanwhile, America is Thank you. (jazz music) - [Voiceover] In art, politics, there was an insatiable This was the birth of modernism. You've got a heart but You see where you are but And I'm stuck here still I'm tangled up with you This whole world can be So uncertain - But, and I might get into I would argue that the upheaval at this time, would eclipse them all and have far longer lasting consequences. It had begun with the discovery of the weird and contradictory wave-particle nature of light, it ended up as an epic the greatest minds in science for the highest possible stakes, the nature of reality itself. You know I deserve you I know you're my savior But when I observe you - [Voiceover] On one side, a new wave of modernist, revolutionary scientists, and their leader, the Niels Bohr. On the other side, the voice at the height of his powers a formidable adversary. - The battle raged for decades, actually in some ways it still does. It was fought across the at conferences, in bars and cafes, it would reduce grown men to tears. And it began with a This whole world can be So uncertain - [Voiceover] But weirdly that wasn't even about light. It was about the particles - In the mid 1920s an at Bell Laboratories in which uncovered something about electrons. Now at the time it was that electrons were these small but solid particles, In the experiment they at a crystal and watched Now that's entirely equivalent to taking a beam of electrons, and firing it at a screen So that the electrons and hit another screen at the back. - [Voiceover] What the shocked the physics world to the core. To understand why, consider with water waves. - I've set up a simple experiment. I have a water ripple tank placed on top of an overhead projector. I have a generator producing waves that pass through two narrow gaps. The projector beams the image of the waves onto the back wall. You can see, as the waves and squeeze through the two gaps, they spread out on the other side and interfere with each other. What this means is that when meeting the crest from another, they add up to make a higher wave. But when the crest from they cancel out. This gives rise to these leading to the signature wave pattern. - [Voiceover] Bands of light and dark. Whenever you see these the signature wave pattern, you know, without doubt, that you've got wave-like behavior. So guess what they saw in New Jersey? - Now it seemed that firing electrons, tiny, solid particles, produced exactly the same kind of pattern, bands of light and dark. First light, for a long was found to sometimes and now electrons, for a long were behaving like waves. - [Voiceover] But it was The wave pattern wasn't merely some result of the entire beam of electrons. - More recently this in labs around the world, by firing one electron at a time through the slits onto the screen. - [Voiceover] At first, randomly on the screen. But gradually a pattern forms, the signature wave pattern. - Let me be quite clear Remember from the wave tank experiment where the signature because each wave passes and then its two pieces But here, every individual electron, each single particle, is before it hits the screen. - [Voiceover] And yet, is still contributing to - Each electron has to (jazz music) - [Voiceover] To explain Niels Bohr and his colleagues a crazy theory of light and matter that embraced contradiction and didn't care that it was - As Niels Bohr himself said, anyone who isn't shocked by quantum theory hasn't understood it. So viewers, I'm going to and use it to delve deep And yes, prepare to be shocked because this is the only way to explain what we observe when a single electron travels through the slits - [Voiceover] Quantum mechanics says this, we can't describe what's All we can talk about are the chances of where the electron might be. This wave of chance somehow producing interference Then, when it hits the screen, what was just the ghostly mysteriously becomes real. - Let me try and capture with an analogy. If I spin this coin, then all the time it's spinning is a blur, I can't tell if it's heads or tails. But, if I stop it, I force it to decide. And it's heads. So before it was sort but a mixture of both, but as soon as I've stopped it, I forced it to make up its mind. This is what Bohr and was happening with our electrons. - [Voiceover] In a sense, as it spins the coin is Similarly, the electron's wave of chance passes through both slits, two paths at the same time. Our coin then stops at heads. The ethereal wave of and only then becomes a particle. The quantum world was unlike anything ever seen before. - It's hard to overstate Bohr was effectively claiming that one can never know where the until you measure it. And it's not just that you don't know where the electron is, it's weirdly as though the electron itself is everywhere at once. Bear in mind that electrons and most basic building blocks of reality. And yet, here's Bohr saying that only by looking do we actually into existence. It's like there's a curtain and behind it ... - [Voiceover] There is no solid reality, just the potential for reality. Things only become real when and look. - And this view, ladies and gentlemen, became known as the (applause) - [Voiceover] Persuasive as it may seem, many people couldn't stomach And they found a natural leader in the most powerful man in science. - Albert Einstein hated with every fiber of his being. He famously said, &quot;Does &quot;when I don't look at it?&quot; - He was very unhappy because it gave limits to knowledge should be final. He thought there should be - [Voiceover] Over the next 10 years, Einstein and Bohr would argue passionately about whether quantum mechanics meant giving up on reality or not. Then, with two other scientists, Nathan Rosen and Boris Podolsky, Einstein thought they'd found a way to win the argument. He was convinced he'd found a fatal flaw in the Copenhagen Interpretation, and its claim that reality by the act of looking at it. - At the heart of Einstein's argument was an aspect of quantum mechanics called entanglement. Now entanglement is this special, incredibly close relationship between a pair of quantum particles For example, if they were Let me try and explain this by imagining that two particles are spinning coins. - [Voiceover] Imagine these created from the same event and then moved apart from each other. Quantum mechanics says that they're entangled, and now many of their wherever they are. - Remember, the Copenhagen that until you measure one of the coins, neither of them is heads or tails. In fact, heads and tails don't even exist. And here's where entanglement makes this weird situation even weirder. - [Voiceover] When we stop the first coin, and it becomes heads, because the coins are the second coin will - And here's the crucial thing, I can't predict what the outcome only that they will always be opposite. Einstein seized on this. - [Voiceover] Because it meant between the two coins that was almost too crazy to imagine. - It's as if the two coins communicating instantaneously even if the first coin was on Earth and the other was on Pluto. - [Voiceover] Einstein refused to believe this instantaneous, His theory of relativity said that nothing could travel that fast. Not even information. So how could one coin instantaneously know how the other would land? He disparagingly called it, &quot;spooky action at a distance,&quot; and claimed it was a fatal flaw in the Copenhagen Interpretation. What's more, he had a better idea. - Einstein believed there That somehow, the whether or not they was already fixed long - [Voiceover] He said that the coin was at the moment of observation, actually that decision It was just hidden from us. - In Einstein's mind, quantum particles were nothing like spinning coins. They were more like, left and right, separated into boxes. We don't know which box until we open one, but when we do, and find, then immediately we contains the left-handed glove. But crucially, this requires no &quot;spooky action at a distance,&quot; neither glove has been altered Both of them were either from the beginning, and the only thing that has changed is our knowledge. - [Voiceover] So, which is the Bohr's coins, which only become real when we look at them, and then magically Or Einstein's gloves, but are definitely left or - In other words, is there as Einstein believed, or not, as Bohr maintained? In the late 1930s, as the there was no way to answer this question. The battle to understand was deadlocked. - [Voiceover] The war and many of the leading scientists fled to the United States. Then, as the second to the Cold War, American science, backed by dollar bills and a new vision of the future, boomed. - [Graham] Remember, after the war, physicists came back, raring to go, and try to apply the to atoms, the interaction and light, and what have you. You didn't need to worry side of things to make progress with that. So, as you say, it - [Voiceover] Quantum mechanics led to a profound understanding which helped create the It produced lasers, breath-taking new medical advances, and breakthroughs in nuclear power. Quantum mechanics was so successful that most working physicists to ignore Einstein's objections. - It simply didn't matter They even coined a phrase for it, &quot;Shut up and calculate.&quot; - [Voiceover] And the was that Bohr and Einstein's debate on the reality of the quantum world was simply brushed under the carpet. And amidst all this there were few who still But as the '50s rolled one lone dissenter worked out once and for all. - John Bell, I think it's fair to say isn't well-known to the general public, but to physicists like He was an original in his convictions, and the story of his rise to become one of the greats of physics when you consider how he started. He was born in Belfast in the 1920s into a poor working-class family. His father was a horse dealer. And they really struggled to get him into Queens University, Belfast to study physics. In fact, he was the only one in his family to even finish school. This, I believe, made firey, and stubborn. I remember meeting John Bell in 1989, a year before he died. We were both at a conference in America and we happened to be sharing a lift just after both attending a Keen to say something I said I thought the speaker's conclusions were completely crazy. He stared at me with and for a moment I thought was going down the drain, but as the lift doors opened he said, &quot;Yes, I &quot;Haven't they heard of To this day, I'm not quite sure but I was just so relieved For many years he worked here at Britain's Atomic Energy Research Center at Harwell, who built this early called DIDO. - [Voiceover] It was here the deep and worrying questions that quantum mechanics raised. Did the quantum world only Or was there a deeper truth out there, waiting to be discovered? In fact, he was so troubled he began to wonder if there was a problem at the heart of quantum mechanics. - He famously said, &quot;I hesitate to think it might be wrong, &quot;but I know it is rotten.&quot; And so, in the early 1960s, Bell decided to try and resolve the crisis at the heart of quantum physics. It was an epic challenge. - [Voiceover] After all, how do you check if something is real? If something is or isn't How do you look behind the curtain without pulling it open? But John Bell came up with a brilliant way of doing exactly that. - I think this is one of in the whole of physics. It's certainly one of the and explain, but I'm going to try and have a go and yes, I'm afraid I'm This time I'm going to but it's one for the the nature of reality itself. - [Voiceover] The card game is against the mysterious quantum dealer. The cards he deals represent or even quanta of light, photons, and the game we'll play whether Einstein or Bohr was right. - Now the rules of the game The dealer is going to If they're the same color, I win, if they're different colors, I lose. So, I have a red, so I That's black, I lose. Again, opposite colors. I've lost both those. That's four in a row. That's six pairs in a row that I've lost. Okay, I think I know what clearly deck has been rigged in advance so that every pair come - [Voiceover] But there's a simple way to catch the dealer out. - So what we can do now, is change the rules of the game. This time, if they are - [Voiceover] But once again, every time my evil quantum opponent beats me. - But again I can see what the Maybe while I wasn't looking he's switched the pack and rigged it so it always lands in his favor. Now every pair is the same color. - [Voiceover] Rigged decks, remember, were what Einstein thought in the entanglement experiment. He said that, just like placed in the box, so the evil dealer stacked the cards before we played. But Niels Bohr's idea was very different. He said red and black don't even exist until you turn them over. - Bell's genius was that of deciding once and Einstein or Bohr. This is how he did it. I'm now not going to tell the dealer which game I want to play, same color wins, or different color wins, until after he's dealt the cards. - [Voiceover] Now, because which rules I'm going to play by, he can never stack the deck correctly. Now, he can't win. Or can he? - So now the rules are, different wins. The same, okay. Same color wins. This gets to the very If we now start playing and then Einstein was right, the dealer is just a trickster with a gift for slight of hand. Reality may be tricky, but it does have an objective existence. But what if I lose? Well then, I'm forced to admit that there is no sensible explanation. - [Voiceover] Each card must be sending secret signals to the other, in defiance of everything we know. - I'm forced to accept quantum level, reality - [Voiceover] Bell reduced this idea into a single mathematical equation that tells us once and for all what seemed unanswerable. How reality really is. - John Bell published his idea in 1964, and the extraordinary thing is, at the time, the entire Total radio silence. It seems the world simply wasn't ready. - [Voiceover] Perhaps it seemed untestable. Or just because nobody thought But that was about to change, and the change would come (psychedelic rock music) - America was in crisis, over Vietnam, Watergate, feminism, the Black Panthers, and while all this was going on, a small group of hippy physicists were working at the University They did all the hippy things. They smoked dope, they popped LSD, they debated things like - [Voiceover] And they In its weird version of reality they saw parallels with - Their hippy, new-age style physics also caught the attention of the public who read their crazy, hippy books that mixed quantum mechanics Books like The Tao of Physics, The Dancing Wu Li Masters, and my personal favorite, Space-Time and Beyond: Towards an Explanation But more importantly for our story, the story of quantum mechanics, these hippy physicists to Einstein's now famous and what it told us about - [Voiceover] They saw Niels as proof that physics because if two particles across space, then ESP, telepathy, and clairvoyance were If only they could Then, in 1972, they realized that, with a bit of mathematical slight of hand, they could take Bell's equation and experimentally test it. - One of their group, John Clauser, borrowed some equipment from and set up the first of quantum mechanics. - [Voiceover] This is a picture built of leftovers and stolen equpiment. Over the next few years, it was improved by a team lead by Alain Aspect in Paris, making its results more reliable. Over ten years after Bell finally it could be put to the test. - This is a modern first carried out by John Clauser and then Alain Aspect. - [Voiceover] Here, a into pairs of entangled making two very precise beams. - These photons are passed around and bent back again, until they pass through these detectors. - [Voiceover] The two photons the evil dealer places in front of me. We'll measure a property of the photons called polarization. - Which is equivalent to the in my game. - [Voiceover] So, for instance, winning with two matching red cards might be the same as two photons with matching polarization. - But because this is quantum mechanics it's more complicated - [Voiceover] And these dials here allow me to measure a second property of the photons as well. - Now that's equivalent to the color of the face of the cards, but also trying to guess the color of the back of the cards. Okay, so we now are going and start the experiment. So this number here gives me the number of photon pairs coming That's the equivalent to the The graph here, dropping that I can win, that I'm guessing right. - [Voiceover] The more photons, the more accurate it becomes. I'll stop at an uncertainty of about 1%. - And the final answer is .56, so if I put that into my equation, I now need to run the corresponding to the of these dials. - [Voiceover] Each run is now for the quantum dealer. - And when I add them if it's less than two, If it's greater than Okay, so now for the second setting. - [Voiceover] Just remember If the numbers come out less than two, then it's proof the dealer this was Einstein's view. - Okay, so the number I Now, reset for run three. - [Voiceover] But if the then the deck cannot be stacked and something else is at work. - Okay, so the run three result is -0.59. And finally, run four. - [Voiceover] This last if the world follows common sense or something much more bizarre. - Okay, so our final result is in, and it's 0.56. So if we turn the laser off. Right, I better just work out the answer. And there were have it, 2.53. It's a number greater than two. Absolute proof that and Niels Bohr was right. The significance of this Just remember what it means, Einstein's version of No amount of clever can cheat nature. The two entangled photons' properties couldn't have been set from the beginning, but are summoned into existence only when we measure them. - [Voiceover] Something strange something we can't explain or even imagine other than by using mathematics. And, weirder, photons do only become real when we observe them. In some strange sense, the moon doesn't exist It truly defies common sense. No wonder towards the end of his life, Einstein wrote, &quot;All these 50 years &quot;of conscious brooding &quot;to the question, what are light quanta. &quot;Every Tom, Dick, and &quot;but he is mistaken.&quot; The experiment only confirms this, whatever is happening, we But it doesn't mean we - While it's true that a reasonable, common sense explanation was shattered for good, my own personal view is that banish physical reality. - [Voiceover] Like Einstein, a more palatable explanation underlying the weird results of quantum mechanics. But one thing is clear. - Whether there are whether there are parallel universes, whether we bring reality whatever the truth is, the won't go away. It'll rear its ugly head somewhere. - [Voiceover] 120 years revolution ever was brought And scientists are still like x-rays, to unlock nature's mysteries. - This is the Diamond light source. It's Britain's single The x-rays produced here more powerful than a hospital x-ray. With that sort of power, and glimpse those quantum secrets inside. - [Voiceover] Researchers powerful light beam to which may have the an electronics breakthrough Just as the quantum pioneers ended up bringing about a revolution, so this are set to usher in a new quantum era. An era where Einstein's now produces unbreakable new kinds of communication systems, super-fast computers, and other advances we can't yet even imagine. And this is why quantum mechanics thrills and frustrates me. It's capricious, it's counter-intuitive, it even sometimes feels just plain wrong, and yet, it still surprises us every day. - And I, for one, believe of the quantum world is That there are greater truths about nature yet to be discovered. And that's still what - [Voiceover] Next week, into the quantum world I investigate how its weird and how the bizarre behavior might even influence evolution itself. (jazz music) I know I deserve you I know you're my savior But when I observe you, So I'm stuck here still I'm tangled up with you (Xive TV theme)