In 1686, Chinese cannons bombarded the Russian Qing Kangxi Emperor had sent an army to the capture the fortress and stop the expansion of relentless bombardment, superior numbers, and to capture the fortress. This was not due to any to the Tsardom's troops. Instead, the trouble with a Western-style star fortress with bastions. those practiced in the West, which typically systematic trench digging, and the use of heavy reasons for these differences and examine how from that in Europe. Different Fortresses, Different Sieges the valley of the Amur or Heilong River--a narrow the 17th century, it was part of the border area it was fiercely contested. In 1672, the Tsarist converting it into a modern star fortress in the with bastions. European engineers developed this in response to increasingly effective cannons sparked a continuous back-and-forth between ultimately giving rise to a very specific form on the capability of these new fortresses to any blind spots, ensuring that any attackers one position. Taking such a fortress by siege armies to construct extensive trench fortress without being shot to pieces. This century when a French engineer named Sebastien system and the method of conquering a fortress. standardized method brought down every fortress. Although black powder weapons had been the heavy artillery commonly used in the for this remains unclear, but Tonio Andrade, suspects that it may stem from variations in Ages. In Europe, walls were built thin and high to resist heavy artillery fire. China, on the since ancient times that were impervious was simply no need for heavy siege artillery in Because of this, in China, siege warfare Walls played a crucial role from very early on, characters for "city" and "wall" are the same by ramparts of such dimensions that European city the Longshan culture around 3000 BC, some cities and by the time of the Ming Dynasty (1368-1644) These walls were not made of bricks and filled consisted of tamped earth with a brick surface. of later European bastion fortresses. they absorbed the energy of heavy projectiles walls. It was therefore almost impossible to Chinese using artillery--first catapults and later If you're going to visit these walls yourself, quite a bit of time connecting to crappy and you'll fail to connect to the WIFI and will in a foreign country comes with really high sponsor Saily eSIM solves. Saily is an affordable makes sure your always safely connected to the depending on the country I travel to, I save about of my local provider. Before you travel you can download the app and activate your plan before activated you're protected against accidentally you never end up having a really high bill because basically eliminates roaming fees; lets you avoid on local SIM-card sellers or connect to dodgy devices, has a 24/7 chat support and offers a full compatible with an eSIM. Don't sleep on solving Saily.com/sandrhoman and use the code sandrhoman It was not until the 16th century that in China. This artillery type was called a "red the Dutch and British who brought them. Thanks to these cannons were now also effective against them to become widespread and, most importantly, a Western artillery fortress with bastions. the 17th century, they also became familiar well-documented in military manuals and there people--notably Ma Weicheng, in an effort to with the construction of Western-style star the Chinese still experienced serious difficulties as the few existing examples show. One an ideal case study to illustrate the challenges fortresses. Let's take a closer look. In 1672, the Tsardom of Russia officially it was a sturdy wooden fortress surrounded by a and a monastery. The Chinese Emperor was not on military intervention. In 1685, he sent one men and a huge artillery train to eliminate the the fort was so badly damaged that the commander to surrender. Langtan then razed the fortress But as soon as Langtan had retreated with his Instructed by a Prussian soldier, whom sources massive Western-style artillery fortress with the ramparts with roots of bushes and trees that one contemporary Dutch scholar, made them "as hard stronger fortress than it had been before. well-armed soldiers, dozens of ships with his work. Once again, the Qing army was vastly men and 11 large guns. However, soon after their fortress compensated for much of this imbalance, surround the fortress, even with some locally the defenders an ultimatum: surrender Albazin The siege proper began on July 18, 1686. Right no experience attacking such fortresses, as they a European army would have done. Instead, they were baskets filled with earth and rubble and Because these assaults were all quite similar, we the night of July 23, 1686. On this night, Langtan sides. His cannoneers opened a dense barrage the fortress from the south and attempted to barrage that was reportedly so dense that both gunpowder smoke. Experiencing massive confusion the attack. The defenders seized the opportunity musketeers rushed toward the enemy fortifications prisoners and inflicting further casualties. This as the artillery fortress made it easy for the outnumbered. In the end, Langtan's assaults were Unlike the Chinese, Western attackers and connected them with what is referred to provide constant cover as they slowly advanced they would try to break through with heavy unfamiliar with this method, now realized and assaulting was getting them nowhere. First, he tried to weaken the walls from a night. As expected, this did little damage withstand exactly this type of assault. When this storm the southern defenses but failed once again artillery positions along the river. Although his they didn't last long. The defenders shot one of Whenever the Qing completed a new position, it Langtan had trouble finding good positions for a star fortress. The bastions were designed to fire at any position around the fortress at any a new weapon to conquer the defenders: starvation. network of moats and ramparts to surround the thus their access to clean water. Tolbuzin's men necessary capacity, so the Qing siege works grew gabions, each with room for three large cannons, towered on an island in the river. As seen on based on the sketch of an eyewitness and was also more massive fortifications than Albazin itself. no way to bring supplies or reinforcements into This was a problem, because the fortress Qing attacked it, and many soldiers had to live in They had enough grain, but they quickly ran out of because they could not bury their excrement disease had decimated the defenders to such an men were left. Just a few weeks later, there were the guns. Nevertheless, Albazin did not surrender. were ill-suited for the harsh winter conditions, in a staggering mortality rate, probably that the defenders mocked them by sending them Langtan decided to force a decision in December. assault, however, a messenger arrived from Kangxi Emperor and Tsar Peter the Great were the siege was paused and finally ended. Albazin Nerchinsk, which is considered the first agreement the Qing granted Russia trading privileges it was diplomacy that concluded the siege--despite artillery fortress of Albazin. a hammer, everything looks like a nail. forces during the siege of Albazin show that known in China, they lacked the necessary means became evident in the few other cases in which too, they relied on direct bombardment, blockade, for attacking Western-style artillery fortresses. difficulties with Chinese fortresses. When the 1662, for example, they found that their cannons instead, in true Chinese style, shot down the is known about siege warfare in China in the last This is a wonderful example of how historiography fraction of the extensive sources on Chinese this area will certainly have to expand, adapt, or