This video is sponsored by Squarespace a professional website. Stick around to hear more. As I get older and games move forward, it becomes For all of the conveniences offered in the current of...inconveniences. Long updates and download on a console's basic storage, anticipated expensive DLC packs and season passes for things and companies losing a lot of player respect after have been commonplace for the past decade, and Which is why starting up Metroid Dread on I took the game home, put it in the Switch, and sequence. No day-one patches, no incessant company just an excellent, challenging, immersive and was released in such a beautiful state and Something that you could get invested in and I haven't had an experience this pure with a took me back to a time when there were no updates it. You couldn't update it or patch it after the those bugs would become part of the game's legacy. disc - no installation, no copying to the hard suppose I just crave the simplicity of an era lost simple conveniences were commonplace was the sixth my love for this medium of entertainment was born, This is the story of a little The GameCube was all about letting experiences the system left behind an astonishing it faced many hardships before it finally bit the that set the system apart from its competitors, what Nintendo learned from the system, and in honour of the console's 20th anniversary, A quick shoutout to Squarespace for sponsoring the tools necessary to create a website. Whether setting up a professional space for your business There are plenty of templates to choose from in easy-to-use tools like a mailing list for clients, for displaying your demo reels. Whether you're developer, or virtually anything else - you'll need, and in my experience it has been incredibly unifying your online presence and presenting your If you're interested in trying out Squarespace free trial, and once you're set to launch, use off your first purchase of a website Although the Nintendo 64 has enjoyed acclaim in Nintendo made with the console would result in close partnerships with other studios. The most The system's competitors - the Sony PlayStation delivering games. These CDs held a maximum of 650 64 MB. This limited what developers could do in otherwise non-existent load times, developers were decreasing texture and sound quality, foregoing the overall amount of content they included Usually, they'd have to do that anyway, because All of the storage limitations made full-scale RPGs major compromises. On top of that, cartridges With all of this in mind, many major developers Argonaut Software of Star Fox fame shifted their was fierce, and while the Nintendo 64 was still a it wasn't very easy to develop for unless you architecture. Near the end of the system's life, Takeda looked back on the system's However - when developers had this opportunity hardware, the games would speak for themselves. the system with great fondness. They don't shortcomings - they remember the experiences. the first time they beat Ganon in slap battles they had in Goldeneye - they the games on Nintendo 64. And I believe Now, I'm gonna talk about the games that made Games that realized the fullest potential peripherals or niche audience to deliver But no matter what you decide to play on the You'd probably think that a little, floating accompany some unsettling music, but the An opportunity to sit still and or maybe look at the many icons for Above all else, it asks a simple question... What do you want to play? Just hearing a few notes from its ambient music reminds me of how many memories I have with the of nostalgia I have, as that minimalistic, ambient I ever played as a kid. It transports me to Anyway, enough dawdling. Let's play some games. On launch day, what demonstrated the system's both Star Wars: Rogue Squadron II and Luigi's what the GameCube could do, the former became Nintendo's technology partner through their and the Rogue Squadron games lived on as highly Luigi's Mansion, however, also demonstrated and the kind of charm that would become a you need to snap the control stick in the opposite Thanks to the control stick's octagonal notches, the freedom of analog control. You can tilt in minute adjustments that aren't possible on digital profits in Luigi's Mansion and replaying the game launch game - replayability is a great thing. Luigi's Mansion also had oodles of personality of its own unlike any other game I've played thanks to its Not even its sequels could accurately replicate So we're already off to a great start, but my game called Super Monkey Ball. This game combined utilization into a unique and extraordinarily Running at 60 FPS, optimized for high speeds and sporting simplistic the game was great at showcasing the GameCube's game, but it feels right at home on the GameCube. very much thanks to the controller. As you're is key to clearing levels as you make sharp accuracy can enable you to pull off some tricky See, Super Monkey Ball isn't just about finding for replayability thanks to its relentlessly can find exploits in and faster ways to cross the party games, which some people spent ALL of their up to four players, making for hours of fun either sequel a year later, which fully realized the many shapes and tests of accuracy and moments that Super Monkey Ball was a wholly unique experience, many different reasons. Super Monkey Ball's and the sheer depth in its level design and mode, and unlock those extra levels by not dying enjoyable collection of party games, and you have 20 years. And for a game like that to LAUNCH When it comes to third-party support, the most notable launch title, to me, was an Simply having Rogue Squadron 2, Luigi's Mansion, because pretty much all of them have benefits to Even if you weren't keen on buying the before an earth-shattering game would come Nintendo released Super Smash Bros. Melee, a game of the most popular competitive fighting games of Sakurai never intended for the game to have a widening between casual and competitive players. tech that players have discovered in the years one of the most invigorating and intense fighting the techniques category on the Smash Wiki for Melee alone. The game has a considerable amount of hidden depth that the developers never even competitive scene. Setting up combos and kill The controller also lent itself well to the it remains a popular choice of controller Even if you don't care about the competitive There's far more content to delve into than comes as a welcome surprise. Surviving 100-Man or leaving the GameCube on overnight by accident those are experiences that you don't forget. characters are strewn across the different modes. content the game had to offer, and I had a great Smash games mechanically, and while not everyone it will always hold a special place in my heart. Still haven't unlocked Sonic, though. I have a There was one thing I didn't like about Melee, though. Its absolutely monumental impact and legacy almost entirely overshadowed another Nintendo Pikmin. This was a real-time strategy game that anyone really enjoy real-time strategy games. You had which meant carefully allocating your time toward finding ship parts and much more. It is delicately and while it tends to induce anxiety in new limit isn't your thing, then perhaps you'd like to can explore caves as much as you like to complete your Pikmin counts continue to rise...or plummet, They both handle tension differently, and they offer different things to different people. But I think they still stand tall in their own right. As far as I'm concerned, the GameCube had an lineup would continue to expand. Let's rewind was a precedent at the time as it was the first Sega making games on a Nintendo platform was already start making Sonic games for the system. And Sonic Adventure 2: Battle, which features more detailed and fleshed out its Chao Garden with replacement for taking your Chao with you in the the game with a Game Boy Advance, you could copy or transfer them to the Chao Garden in Sonic a step up from Sonic Adventure, with Chao evolutions I honestly spent more time replaying my favourite aspect of the game. I even had a friend of mine was able to check out his Chao Garden, trade with Yeah, I really miss everything about this. When it comes to Sonic, his games were not Sonic Adventure came out as well, in addition to Shadow the Hedgehog and Sonic Riders. These games of course, but if you wanted to play a classic The Sonic Mega and Gems collections are still compilation disc. Sonic Mega Collection offered Spinball, Mean Bean Machine, Ristar, Comix its release. Not only was it affordable, it alongside the games you were likely to buy the games in the series, notably Sonic CD, Sonic R an arcade game - along with other goodies and save states. Where these compilations really Mega Collection goes for a decidedly retro through hyperspace as if you're travelling back in Listening to this while flipping through old, adds to that feeling of stepping back in time. before, this collection was worth diving into. It was the perfect entry point as it preserved a lot of Sonic's history on a $20 disc. Sonic Gems Collection went for a modern and sleek look, and its electronic music and killer Both collections are evocative of a similar yearning my introduction to the world of Sonic, the cannot be understated. They were comforting It's always nice to see developers go out of simple compilations like this, and these In a time where access to older games no longer where companies feel the need to just bundle games for something that could come close to matching Sega really seemed to favour the GameCube After Amusement Vision did such a fantastic repurposing that high-speed game engine to F-Zero GX is about as good as arcade racers get. 64 so exhilarating, and cranked things up to tighter gameplay, and like most Sega games - a practice and repeat attempts to become tone in the story mode perfectly matched and Captain Falcon's theme is I'm going to reserve my extended thoughts on this a full-blown retrospective in the future. and the levels of high skill, speed-induced It's a crying shame that this was the console, but it's also pretty hard to Artist Takaya Imamura - who created Captain they could take the series any further than GX. There may have been attempts to do such a thing behind closed doors, but the series day we'll see the Blue Falcon and Black Bull face Alongside F-Zero GX, Nintendo and Sega F-Zero AX. This game ran on a board known as developers that worked on it - Nintendo, Sega, and it also accepted GameCube memory cards, which This board was also used to create Mario Kart was awesome seeing these arcade machines in the into a philosophy that Nintendo still holds dear - The GameCube was arguably Nintendo's last The Wii focused on motion controls, the DS had Wii U had asymmetrical multiplayer, and the Switch device that you can play anywhere. But for as long keen on experimenting with new ways to experience example of this experimentation was the Game Boy gameplay experience that wouldn't be revisited Three players control the ghosts on the TV screen Meanwhile, the player controlling Pac-Man uses like the normal arcade game. The ghosts have before he can complete the maze. It's honestly a of what was possible with the link cable. A much of Zelda: Four Swords Adventures. Much like its linearly through Zelda-esque gauntlets of puzzles game's co-operative nature. However, unlike the worlds are not randomized, primarily because the involving the GBA connectivity. Some portions and when you involve four players at a time, problem-solving contingent on your communication wonderful multiplayer experience, and it is a testament to Nintendo's medium, and quite possibly the catalyst for For further experimentation on the GameCube, look no further than Donkey Kong: Jungle Beat. by clapping and banging your grubby little hands on a pair of bongos. You know how Rayman Legends has a level in which you clear hazards That's the closest thing I can compare the feat alone - Jungle Beat is definitely worth game during the summer that I actually went This game is genuinely astonishing. There were a handful of other games that notable ones like Final Fantasy: but I just wanted to give you an overview of the plenty of peripherals for the GameCube, as is the unique innovations in designing games, and they Now, let's step back for a second. F-Zero GX other series received "definitive" games on the never forget Paper Mario: The Thousand-Year Door. character writing, world design, problem-solving, and fun. Simply put, it is one of the best RPGs innovate on turn-based combat by making you was something that the original Paper Mario did improved on its gameplay in every way, in Now, along with being definitive... Another thing that these games reveal about Sure, through its peripherals you can see this philosophy, but it also shines through in game design. A rhythm platformer a puzzle-platformer that can be so much bigger and Zelda game that has you communicating your a Resident Evil game in which you suck up ghosts on each playthrough...these are the experiences Take for example Mario Kart: Double Dash. to its two-rider motif, and the co-operative Whether I was in control of both of my riders at drifting, or I was tackling each track each lap - Double Dash was an excellent It may have been eclipsed by Mario Kart of content and features, but its Even more abstract is Kirby Air Ride. It features racing in general, but hidden within is one of ever - City Trial. Essentially, you have a set Ride machine by collecting items for each stat. minigame, or boss battle. In addition, you also affect how you go about upgrading, and you can go the Dragoon or Hydra to create a Legendary All of this is happening simultaneously against the other players as and all within a sprawling city with detailed as I'm concerned - City Trial is all Kirby Air because it's all anyone ever talks about from this to how GameCube game developers thought outside So many of the GameCube's best games are unique else in the history of the medium. And although what they accomplish in overall quality. What Rather than trying to maintain the status quo the established rulesets of a genre, they all That's not to say the other consoles Halo: Combat Evolved made incredible strides while Kingdom Hearts redefined the But the GameCube was consistent in this philosophy still so many games I haven't mentioned. Eternal It is a fresh take on psychological horror darkest moments with tricks that I wouldn't Hatcher and the Giant Egg, but its concept of an If you wanted a further showcase for the SoulCalibur II was a perfect fit for the control And you can't forget Mario Party. Even though the franchise was annualized by its imitators, and I find Mario Party 6 to be also home to hidden gems that don't compromise like Wario World and Geist. Okay, maybe they're I have over a hundred GameCube games on my spend time on was excruciatingly difficult, picks yet. The point I'm trying to is that the system had a strong lineup of These characteristics took them a step beyond the rules to their will, or otherwise went beyond party game that based its competitive scene A real-time strategy game that directly involves This is why the GameCube had such a strong lineup. And it's a shame that this ended up being detrimental to the While the GameCube was a pretty powerful system advantage of than the N64...it had its hiccups. forced developers to release games on or remove content entirely - much like third-party developers was its lack of a proper especially the Xbox took full advantage of however Nintendo saw no reason to pursue it. Aside game Homeland, the GameCube really only made use connect to one another on the same network, and you'd need to buy separate Phantasy Star Online was a very highly regarded game and it is still played to this very day on private Well, Nintendo's reasoning includes concerns over and wanting kids and families This alienated many developers that wanted as they'd either have to spend money on an strategy in place, or release the game without The original Battlefield 1942 was proposed but you can imagine how well that went over. These problems, combined with the console's focus on family-friendly entertainment drove many Even Nintendo's strongest and most confident Super Mario Sunshine! I love this game. FLUDD and Yoshi Mario's abilities, and each mission had defined how you explore a level. However...not everyone was keen on the game's structure, which focused on clearing episode seven in every world and and getting 120 shines meant It's a very complicated situation, and I'd love A game I have made a video on is The Legend of but I'm sure you know all about THAT by now. commitment, and it had an effect on the game's It aimed to convey an alternative perspective to growing up, unlike Ocarina of Time... and not many people were able to see through Most of its pre-order sales came from people Quest disc for their GameCube, which completely Its reputation improved over time, and the game's one of the best examples of cel-shading in a video for many games that attempted the same style. With some of Nintendo's biggest and most wide an audience as previously done with the Kart), the GameCube (as it stood in the 2000's) niche market. Nintendo needed a game that would fit into a recognizable and profitable genre, but genre rules. The franchise that was chosen to Metroid Prime was met with skepticism when first-person shooter, but the core of Metroid was awards in 2002 and becoming a legendary game in transitioned the gameplay of Metroid into 3D, and new axis for depth in puzzle-design, combat and Prime eventually became a trilogy of games, Still one of my favourite videos to date, along Nintendo's traditional audience and refused to app for the GameCube. But it wouldn't be enough While I believe the console's strong lineup its sole focus on games, as well as the company back then in an ever-growing while the former was the result of their To this day, Nintendo remains apprehensive I won't delve deeply into I have once before on my now-defunct Twitter It also generally depresses me to dwell on you want an archive of the write-up I made, there The only thing that has truly stayed the same, fantastic experiences, and that's what keeps me everything that Nintendo does, but they certainly Also, that's not to say third-party Along with SEGA's adamant support of the system, system and I had fond memories experiencing them the discussion of what set the system apart from Grand Theft Auto or Final Fantasy doesn't mean The question is - did this support last? And the support for the GameCube dwindled, with 2006 the most you'd get would be a swath of licensed Geist or Mario Superstar Baseball. Great games did but they were few and far between, and in the grand scheme of things, but it wasn't Another huge hit to the system's and it was entirely Nintendo's fault that they the Nintendo 64's library in a major way, creating and even a kart-racer that unquestionably inspired should not be overlooked. While they were making company, instead settling for the 49% stake they refusing to offer more capital or purchase the by Microsoft for $375 million dollars. Adjusted for inflation, that's over $500 million. Nintendo let Rare slip through their fingers. To be fair, their last game with Nintendo was Star Fox works, and after being acquired by Microsoft they I liked Viva Pinata? I think? But perhaps this before the company was acquired. Regardless of maybe this decline was inevitable. But no matter we never got to play a proper Banjo-Threeie or all these years. The Rare I once knew belonged going to be the same company forever, so With all of this at hand, things were looking and Nintendo had one last trick up their sleeve with a developer that was once one of their Introducing... the Capcom Five. This was a lineup of GameCube games that were right in with the system's focus on originality which...certainly was unique, but it didn't and repetition. The second was much better, beat-em-up called Viewtiful Joe, a game that This is where things started to go south, was never released, and it was around this Viewtiful Joe received a port to PlayStation 2, as supposed to remain exclusive, but it has since However...that fifth game was - for a limited It swept Game of the Year awards in 2005 and is While Resident Evil had a phenomenal presence the original game, as well as ports of 2, 3, the one that had the biggest impact was Resident by now, I'm not going to sing its praises over third-person shooters without compromising emphasizing accuracy in an anxious setting, it strategize and organize. Its effects can the games it inspired, and even In summary - the Capcom Five's games were not unfortunately flopped. The system's market share games to make bank, especially when you consider This resulted in the exclusivity deal and Capcom's relationship remaining strained GameCube's coffin, despite everything it had Nintendo eventually abandoned ship and released the Wii the following year, and leaving Madden NFL 08 as And that, my friends...is the tragic story of its legacy lived on. The Wii was the beginning they focused on capturing an audience outside of The strategy has since brought them astounding With the Wii striving to reach an untapped I feel as though this was a move directly inspired GameCube's library was, on top of Satoru Iwata's in the Wii and DS era. The GameCube library as demonstrated before with genre-defying While the software library was constrained it was the beginning of an era in which Nintendo competitors, and thanks to the Wii's different ways of experiencing games came about Wii's robust Virtual Console lineup of NES, SNES, the GameCube meant that it was fully backwards peripherals, and memory cards. This means that players on the Wii could have all of the amazing There's no support for the broadband adapter compatible - including games like Four Swords This arguably made the Wii Nintendo's best home Obviously, the Wii wasn't going to stay on the games of old. As the Wii U rolled around, GameCube system didn't even support GameCube discs, despite Now, in the Switch era - we have no official way provide a solution. Games from other companies or remade, and I understand that licensing could from being re-released, but Nintendo owns all and they have done little to preserve their legacy content. Some games that rely on peripherals like Four Swords Adventures might be impractical as that would mean creating a solution but most of the other games I talked about They have an adapter for the controllers best otherwise, like what they did with Super Mario IS available on the Switch...but the compilation felt it was best as a temporary celebration of I say it was a sales tactic and they capitalized on nostalgia and the With Super Mario Sunshine's inclusion on emulator in place to support these games, and European Research &amp; Development division (or maintaining the NES and SNES emulators in place N64 emulator, too. They also developed a as well as the emulation on 3D All-Stars for Mario back from bringing GameCube games to the Switch? I don't know. They're sitting on money, and I wish I had the answer as to why. People want to buy these games, but they have no viable way to do so directly. Other systems are also in a problematic position It took a year and a half for NES games to for Super Nintendo games, and TWO more years would drip feed us games that wouldn't always Mario RPG remain unaccounted for. Flashback to with new games being added every Wednesday. Or maintaining their Xbox and Xbox 360 emulation, so modern hardware. On top of that, these games But even then...all digital storefronts will eventually close, taking their libraries with them. This is an unavoidable reality in the digital era. Preservation efforts have fallen in the hands of emulator developers, and they've Provided that you still have copies of your improvements that were never possible on the upscaling in Super Nintendo games, to achieving to enabling widescreen support for a plethora Emulation is a great way to play games in the modern era. I am very and Dolphin - a GameCube and Wii emulator - is one of features, graphical options and improvements, It's so monstrous in terms of features that I in this video. I've seen plenty of people make for playing GameCube games, and I don't blame incredible advancements, with Slippi implementing that must've taken, but the end result is the The only problem that remains...is acquiring the I am very fortunate to still have but some people weren't as lucky, or perhaps On top of that, not everyone has the hardware or an emulator comfortably, leaving us with the So let's check eBay for Paper Mario, Oh. Well, I could just buy two games Haugh. Um...Super Smash Bros. Melee? Ok, no, yeah - that's rough. This brings us full circle as we pile another industry today. If you look for originality and as Nintendo and independent developers continue to remasters, reboots, sequels, DLC packs, annualized that worked across financially viable games. But nothing stood between you and the game, and that's relive my childhood one more time. I wanted to than having a great game to play. It'd but things have changed. And I have to accept that. That's why I'm gonna talk about one more game. A go about your life. It's something to look forward And it's unlike anything else on the GameCube. It's Animal Crossing. It's funny, actually. That a game could catching bugs, rearranging and still be one of the most cathartic The repetition of these day by day actions and yet they do. Perhaps it's the personalities the feeling of excitement you get as you finally more furniture than before, or perhaps filling the museum with donations. Whatever the I feel it is the simplicity of these tasks - in completing them - that makes it all worth presented in a cute and easily digestible manner something in a specific timeframe. You can just go and the villagers nearby will be happy to help When revisiting so many games I was surprised to discover how much more Firstly, it is everything I loved about titles I've discussed, it is wholly unique and one of the purest experiences I've ever had with a But most importantly - it is a reflection of We may not think much of going for a walk or pleasures that define how we choose to live our privileges now while I can still enjoy them. While new game I played, I also cherish the simplicity and doing something productive with my love of the of an experience like the one I had with Metroid come my way as long as I recognize and savour Many systems and experiences have passed me by, and who knows how long I'll have THIS? These videos? That's why I'll appreciate them while I can still make them. I owe a lot to the GameCube. It shaped my and a lot of its games eventually drove So thank you, little lunchbox. For everything. Oh, by the way...there's one more GameCube game being the huge Zelda fan that I am, I felt My Zelda retrospective will If you'd like to catch up on my Zelda playlist on the screen. Also, I've I've made on the games I featured today in the I've been Liam Triforce, and thank you