Hey, this is Scott of Photography Banzai. Today we're gonna Thanks to Camera Craft in Rockford Illinois for letting me try this out at their shop. This camera is a bridge camera, but it is 125x... basically 24 to 3000 millimeter That's the biggest selling point of this f/8 throughout that zoom range. It does have a real necessity in this case. On the other 1/2.3 inch backlit CMOS sensor. That in any type of dedicated camera these body-wise. It does have a fully see. A smaller battery around 250 shots one of the lowest of this type of bridge when you zoom in and out. I do think they Video wise, it's nice to see that You also have some higher To round the video off, you do have 1080p at And clean hdmi output. So you could Few additional features.. There is very useful feature. Because it does have a nice large ring manual focus. With videos like this I out the camera. So with things like and test it up for yourself. I tried to autofocus out quite a bit. It maximum zoom. There is some hunting. It's situations. Especially in that lower thing I like to talk about is handling camera. It's solid feeling. It feels more Nikon of course. There's a big price this one feels really good in the hands. on your hand size it might be a little Ergonomics feel good. It's very similar to DSLRs. But in relation to the buttons, Nikon bridge cameras and it is included. a special button that if you're zoomed wider angle view for you to kind of helps out a lot with these extremely A few more things about handling... It does have a tripod socket, of position. It's all the way in the back standard spot for normal cameras. But in large lens on the front. I really think socket forward enough so it's more very front heavy. Even if it's on a a chance to try it out, but I could see a vibration when the lens is fully zoomed camera. They're very simple. A lot of the don't prefer. The battery memory card are I think it works pretty well in this Even if you have some type of quick-release interfere with opening that door. Besides lot of ports, which is nice to see. It dedicated cable release port. HDMI.. the which is really interesting to see how enough that it should work for a decent Also, it has the hot shoe so you can to do that. Electronic viewfinder is an contrast. Using the camera handheld is lengths. It is a very front heavy design going to be difficult kind of focusing your hand as far out as you can in that much. Even with the optical stabilization things steady. However, I did get some zoom. It's just pretty challenging. As for sensor. And throughout the zoom range you Not an ideal situation for image quality. of variation in temperature in the will add some weird effects to your really is not specific to this camera, with. So you get some shimmering you get potentially. Depending on the conditions can shoot RAW format. Just looking at the there's a serious improvement. I see a great JPEGs. But in the RAWs I see some little bit of quality from those RAWs I have a lot of color noise and other and the apertures are small at that long options. Of course with a bridge camera lot into it. You have a lot of AF modes. to see so when you press a button you priority, spot, normal, wide, subject lot of stuff to mess around with in this did notice is that it has a start up it'll jump right to whatever focal interesting and convenient. This is a amazing lens to really get far. There are of lens that gives you that amount of It gives you a lot of options just to take photos. You can use this as some It's a very interesting and unique sensor.. I think there are a lot of other much range, but give you a lot higher with the one-inch sensors and large fast things that I would definitely consider But this one is so novel and so unique. That was a look at the Nikon Coolpix P1000. Again, thanks to Camera Craft for let me try this out at I'm Scott from Photography Banzai. I hope you enjoyed this video. Please consider subscribing, that helps me out a lot. Likes and shares on social media help out a lot as well. Thanks again!