I'm going to spend the next seven days This is the scariest thing All right, well, I guess That was scary. This is going to be terrifying. This is pretty much most people's Oh, my God. That dirt is terrifying. Brace yourself. Ha ha ha. Drop the payload. Oh, God. I feel like My roof is shaking. I'm entrusting my life to this Let's pray it doesn't And obviously, But yes, this is 100% real. And I'll be honest, I severely underestimated And with that, the challenge I am now trapped in here It took the boys so long to bury me And the challenge just started. In case you're wondering Well, yeah. This is so uncomfortable. All I have to survive My foot! is the food in this briefcase, which is basically My foot went numb. Five gallon And whatever essentials which probably means I'm before the seven day In all seriousness. This is extremely dangerous. And so I don't suffocate. I need to make sure Jimmy, can you hear this? Yeah, it sounds like Nolan's If we had 12 people, It's almost 1 a.m. I have a feeling a lot of you I need someone to be near So if I need something, And now that I have I'm going to head to bed, well rested Hopefully I wake up well-rested. Sleep is going to be key because when I'm asleep, I'm not thinking about the fact But that Is there a fly in here? The goal is to sleep as much For my own sanity. Oh, look at him. He looks so cozy. Jimmy Jam! No. Nolan drew all over your face. Nolan, how many hours No, I know you're going to say something. Hopefully she doesn't Show him. My strategy during this video I completely forgot, though. My friends are going to annoy me This is going to be miserable. I want to start today off by turning I just punched that box. Mission one complete. This is our food briefcase. Let's give this MRE a try. MRE stands for &quot;Meal All you have to do is add hot water, The boys, on the other hand, steaks and literally You know, Jimmy, just for you, we're going to eat MREs - Really? No. I literally heard Tareq Enjoy your hot water pasta in a bag. Meanwhile, this is my reality. Oh, it's crunchy. Why is pasta crunchy? This is... I was so bored, I actually ended up until my knuckles started to hurt. So I put a sock on my hand I'm desperate for entertainment. Oh, Jimmy. Thank God I'm so bored. One second. What did you do? Yo, that actually scared me. Can you at least semi Seeing how my life is on the line? All right. Unfortunately, the boys are What they've done all the way down to my grave, just to take this surgical wire camera and feed it Yeah, that's what happens. That's what happens. It's time to go in. This is so surgical. What is that? Oh, that fly on my leg freaked me out. Get away from me. You want to hold this steady? Just keep looking. - Move your... Having fun? Good night, Jimmy. And when day two the boys left me to go And being the under stimulated man. I thought it'd be a good time and see what was inside. Wait, he's opening the card. Is this Nolan's mom? I found a photo of your mom. Bro... - Did you do that? Nolan, is this your mom? Oh, my God. She's on his chest. Oh, my God. Besides, somehow guess what I think it would be not wanting to poop Back pain, back pain, back pain. And maybe some back pain. And obviously, you can tell this is already But like usual, you better bet It's raining really heavy right now. I just woke up to the sound We got to check on Jimmy, I'm actually kind of concerned. This looks way more funeral-esque. You think that dirt's heavier now? Dirt plus rain is heavy. Jimmy I think I have an idea Is someone drilling? It's one of those days. I don't even have And things are already getting Jimmy, can you hear us? What are you doing up there? There are currently 15 So if I had to guess, Jimmy, it's a party up here. Oh, my... Whoa! Yo, my coffin's actually shaking. Jimmy, there's an earthquake, oh my God. Wait, what is that? I just noticed there's on the side of my coffin. His screw's came loose in the coffin. From the base? - Are you kidding? Should I be concerned Max it out. What the I'm vibrating. These vibrations Why is there flowers in my hair? Okay, let's go dig a tunnel. We're going to start the tunnel and dig all the way into Jimmy's We have the speakers blaring noise I've got an idea. We'll play construction So that way There's a loud noise, and no one's So either I'm about to die. It's like playing a video game. Or they're about to do something dumb. Except for you could accidentally I've officially crossed the 50 hour I have now been buried longer than I promised my doctor that I would move every day cause apparently lay down I'm digging a hole. We got to loosen up the dirt for Kris. I asked the boys to pack dumbbells I smell so bad. Yeah, I'm going to do that I could die when I stand up and a couple of days. Kris, go a few feet deeper. I'm not certified to do this at all. I am bored in a coffin. We definitely stayed up all night and dug this tunnel Is this safe? - I'm going second. And then you bring up the rear Tareq. What is that? You guys come right behind me. One of the weird parts is there's so many cameras We should dig a couple more inches It didn't really bother me but I just have this weird feeling someone's always staring at me irritate me. Oh, there he is, there he is. - We almost got him. Hi, Jimmy. What? - Hi Jimmy! Hey, Jimmy, I see Nolan's forehead. Yeah, it's hard to miss. How long did it take to dig Literally all night, Jimmy. This is not what I Hey Nolan one second. What do I have to do to get This is the only thing - How do I get it back? I'm sorry. You've been in this coffin for so long that you forgot about - Yeah! We're almost at 200 million. You're going to hit 200 million Wish I could see it live. Me too my friend. Nolan has a surprise We're going to tape this Feastables Oh, my God, it's hot down here. Is that the new Feastables bar? Hey, this is actually pretty good now in every time-lapse, I hope tomorrow's easier. It's a weird feeling, I am very tired, I don't know. Why am I crying? I don't know. Okay. It's officially day five. Only two more days I don't think humans are meant I'll try to act like Almost there! Jimmy, we got paintball guns, and That sounds fun. I don't even know what to say Jimmy, what have you been doing for fun? Nothing. Have you pooped yet? I have to poop really badly, if I can hold it in I don't know why, but I have, like, I've been laying here for five days to prepare a meal because going to the bathroom down Don't ask me how, but I accidentally I'm cutting off the part Sorry for how short they are now. That was disgusting. Jimmy, we're here to celebrate. We're almost at 200 million subs. Well, what's the estimate of I'm not a rocket scientist. What does he want from us? I've been feeling pretty terrible for the fact that we're about to hit Actually makes me kind of happy. You know, since we're about to hit this would be a super convenient about Verizon home Internet. That's a good point. Verizon 5G home Internet is exactly It's wireless Internet for your home Verizon's extremely fast 5G And don't ask me how, to make sure it worked We're turning it on now. Nice. Okay, I'm connected. And now you're going to watch us And just by plugging thanks to Verizon, 5G home Internet. And because of our hack. It actually works. Even though I'm I can see my real time Karl, did you know that if the people while supplies last when they order Verizon will give you an Xbox They must hate money. I mean honestly. Yeah. And you can get it for as low So if you want a fast just go to mrbeastverizon.com and it'll tell you And now let's focus on the 200 We are so close. Before this I was just some Now he's just some random dude I used to be Karl, this is a heartfelt moment. It's crazy that we used to like sitting at a lunch table and now That's insane. I just want to say it's Let's crush some more goals. And finally, I first started working and I was the janitor, and now we're at 200 million subs I started making videos I'm 25 now thought the channel I mean, as we're about to hit I just want all of you to know every single one of you I still remember the days and literally get zero views. We're going to see all these numbers - Oh, my God! - Let's go! We did it! Oh, I think it's unfortunately Wait, hold on. I haven't even got a chance Yeah, we got you. All right bro, we're Okay? Oh, come on, plug it back in. I just want to say, like, So my girlfriend knows I'm alive. - Let's go eat. I don't know. I'm doing this thing where I'm crying and I'm not 100% sure Hitting but now I'm just alone It's been five days. Five days alone in this coffin. I honestly have no idea two more days of this. I'm going downhill quickly. Yo, Jimmy, how you doing? Oh, no response. I don't know if he's alive. Nolan I appreciate you Are you actually hanging in there? I know... Jimmy went from being terrified to an absolute yapster, I'm doing my best to be honest, I just want to get out of here. Yeah, he's losing his mind. I think we need to find a way So I'm going to make I don't know but I've already used up all my pee bottles, and so basically, I eat one of these meals, and zip it up. I know This challenge is disgusting I was so down bad in this world Jimmy, I brought somebody. Who'd you bring? My parents. How's it going? Well, have you talked about Nolan's No, not whatsoever. And the picture? I don't know what you're talking about. More importantly, do you guys you could tell us about Nolan? Jimmy, there's so many. That will instantly He told us he was going to prom, went to the neighbors next door We like to see him That's all. because I know the comment section I hate Jimmy. My mom has one more question. Hit me. All right, now you walk away. Did he throw the walkie again? I know all of you like to sleep in I don't care. In exactly 12 hours, Okay? That's kind of early, right? What time is it? As long as we wake up for What would you do I get blood clots I'd know where to put you. See you in 12 hours. It's a date. I'm about to go to bed, and hopefully when I open these eyes in the morning, someone So I don't know why I'm tearing up. I don't think I've ever been in my entire life. I can't wait to see the sunlight I'll see you guys in the morning This is going to be awesome. Laying down for my final night. All I can think about I'd be able to stand It's not normal to be laying down Boys. It is officially been seven days. Yeah, I know you guys don't like doing We're getting you out, Jimmy. This is the worst Because I'm just waiting And of course, there's of whether or not So, yeah. Bring in the excavator. I bet you when I get out, the first thing this Santa Claus looking guy Karl, Just get me out of this coffin. Dig, dig, dig, dig. Any second now this dirt above me I can't wait. Oh, that's the excavator. Oh, that's scary. I can see sunlight. Jimmy. Hey. - Jimmy! How's it going? It's hard to describe not seeing it for seven days Oh, my gosh. I started crying once again. I'm not sure why. We did it. We did it. The only question that remains now is when I stand up, We'll find out in Jimmy, you ready? Don't drop it on me. I bet it stinks in there. You guys are predictable. I said that's what you would say. Well, let's not celebrate until I stand up At least sit up for a second. But wait, wait, wait, Wait for a medic to come down. Do you feel nauseous at all? Oh, I don't know. That's good enough for me, This is my first time Oh, my God. My legs are weak. - Oh, I didn't die. All good! I do feel like a rush of blood to It's is actually a crazy feeling, was waiting for me Oh, wow there's so many people. After seven days. I was finally able to celebrate 200 We have to celebrate 200 million, bro. Now that you all saw my underwear, And as always, let's end with an explosion.