I'm at a cathedral that for hundreds of years was the largest There are people everywhere. There's about 84 million people in Turkey. And this year they'll receive about 47 That's a lot. And many of them make this cathedral Hagia Sophia. And you can see why I mean, it's massive. One of the oldest cathedrals But, its meaning goes Its history is layered. Hagia Sophia was originally built but then in 1453, when Ottomans conquered They later added the minarets to give it Fast forward all the way to The Turkish government and that's how things stayed Turkey's highest administrative court Istanbul's Hagia Sophia President Recep Tayyip Erdogan says it will open for prayers in two weeks, that hits at the heart of the country's Hagia Sophia is holding Muslim Friday prayers In a way, this cathedral, of the religious history of Turkey. It was here where the Apostle Paul jumpstarting The Great Comission And over time, this city I mean, just look at this cathedral. When I walked in here, this feels like a Catholic church. But today it's a mosque. I mean, I had to take off my shoes So what once was the capital city And today Christians I want to take you on a journey through the layered past beginning with one question-- all its Christians. To explore the answer to this question, how prominent Turkey Not only did the apostle Paul you know the seven churches in the Book of Revelation? Jesus told them and us to not be lukewarm. To stand fast to the end, Those words must have gripped a Few decades later. Polycarp sounds like He was one of the first major He was also one of the church's It was around 155 A.D. the Roman emperor was persecuting And the story goes Christ, telling his executioners A.D. Eighty and six years I have served him, How then, can I blaspheme my king and saviour? That kind of difficult You might think that that's but the church persevered. And just 150 years later, that would shape the way Christians think not just in Turkey, but at churches To understand that turning point, not that far from the city. Well, it's not called Nicaea anymore. Today, it's a small town called Iznik. But you can tell These walls were probably finished right around the time of a major shift Constantine, the Emperor of Rome, to Christianity, and this was a game Christians went from being persecuted to being recognized And in 325 A.D. Constantine summoned together 300 church right here for a church conference Also, if you're a language nerd, can you please leave a translation We want to know what this says. This conference is really important. In a time if Jesus was even God and other key together to affirm the truth These affirmations It was an amazing summary important teachings of the Bible, among church leaders and churches These church ruins right here, for It's not hard to imagine Christians being read, praying, singing, reciting the Nicene Creed. So a lot of people have debated over the years where the Council Researchers when the government commissioned It's underwater. Kind of easy to see now there's just less water. But you can see the basic Scholars think the structure was damaged sunk below lake Isnik. They're still studying it, but this very well might be the spot Oh, man. It's right there! So at this point, things seem pretty But history took another turn. Empires rise and fall. And as Islam began the landscape changed And when the Ottomans came to power All over churches like this one and many more So here in Nicaea, you can see And these, like the Green Mosque and also the dominance But even their influence fluctuated Turkish authorities seize many churches declaring a secular government. Keep in mind that at this time around But then Ottoman forces killing over a million Armenian Christians And today, Christians make up only point 2% of the Turkish population. And even then, only a tiny And the Muslim and secular majority have no gospel presence near them. It's crazy to think about, but in Turkey here in the first So right now, the World Nomad Games Not really sure what that is. But check it out. But check out some of the local music. And that leads us to today. Present day turkey. Looking at the numbers, are many reasons But to be clear, We long for the gospel to be preached We long for the gospel to be preached This is Adam. He pastors one of the few Protestant and faces a challenge Our people have no real knowledge of Christianity. For this reason we have many for example many Turks think that Jesus the Many Turks think that Jesus was Many Turks think that going to church and that if they go to church So in Turkey, you learn from a young age that Christians are bearers of bad news, when the two largest cultural influences Textbooks and schools present the Crusades to fight, oppress and invade. And all of this fuels In other words, people in this country have prejudices that the missionaries are and make foreigners to come here. This is Hazim who can say that he is a second generation he remembers hearing of only three in the entire country. Today, he estimates that as I said the church is growing somehow, and the blessing of the Lord, by prayers. But of course, what we want is for the to develop much more and to have an We want people to know the Lord, people Now, perhaps you see that and think, well, And it seems like Turkey If we really want to reach the nations, somewhere else. Well, before you do that, consider this. When you break down Turkey's present day population, you'll find It's Muslim and secular, it's European And in part it's that clash of religious that have made it difficult But that obstacle is also Think about this 47 million tourists and they're coming from hard to reach countries But that's just scratching the surface. Today, Turkey hosts the largest While the US has less than one refugee and the UK has less than two, for every thousand Turks Most of those refugees about 3.6 come from Syria, which ranks There's at least another 300,000 and an estimated 120 to 300000 Afghanistan recently rose to the number one spot on Open Doors for Christians to live, for most Western Christians. And yet hundreds of thousands are now arriving at Turkey's borders. This isn't just a coincidence. It's no doubt the effect of war and sin. But it seems to me that it might also be for the church to respond I think sometimes as Western Christians, we can take an overly pragmatic approach We want our dollar to stretch We want to fund work We want to scale. We want to multiply. And all of that sounds really good, right? I mean, higher numbers but that also usually means that with the least amount of resistance. where persecution and oppression where we send and support These places are too hard to reach, and time and energy isn't worth it. Is that right? We can look at things negatively, we can but the Bible says: Where there is hardship, increases even more Jesus Christ says: &quot;Go all over the world and preach the Gospel&quot; But the truth is, in the Great Commission, we're not told to make We're actually told to make disciples of all nations, Go not only to the easy but to all parts of the world and preach Then this is our first responsibility. If the Lord has given us this opportunity, So the opportunities are vast, but to reach the rest of Central So maybe instead of asking ourselves where we should be asking: see what's happening in Turkey, We must say to the Lord I want to go wherever you send me&quot; If the Lord is with us anyway, Surely the blessings of the Lord For the Lord has sent us, and a light