El Chapo - the notorious drug lord who, in 2015, the second time, managed to evade authorities for and the incomprehensible ability to keep his him to amass a net worth of at least $1 billion. Mexican Navy seem to have finally imprisoned him The answer goes back decades Born either in 1954 or 1957 as Joaquin Guzman of the Sinaloa Cartel. From 1989 onward, drug-trafficking rings in the world. Sadly, the start. El Chapo's early years were marred by a man who himself was in the drug trade on El Chapo and his mother. By the time he El Chapo had already been booted out of the He would soon follow in his father's footsteps. marijuana on the streets of Mexico. Throughout him go from street pusher to a key trafficker anywhere near being the kingpin he would become El Chapo was working with a man who would prove That man was Miguel Angel Felix Gallardo. which trafficked cocaine into the United States Four years after Gallardo was sent down, El Chapo founded the Sinaloa Cartel, inheriting Creativity was the driving force behind El Chapo's smuggle cocaine into the United States, with the ran underneath the border between Mexico and the 70 feet underground and were often built tall and them while carrying their shipment of drugs. El Chapo found another way to Other novel methods ranged from the simple - labeled as chili peppers - to the ingenious. within fire extinguishers that were shipped fire extinguishers already contained a powder, to substitute that legitimate chemical compound And El Chapo's organization kept growing. marijuana, heroin, and methamphetamine to five drug operation in the world. El Chapo also cartels that had been so prominent in the 1970s El Chapo took on more territory. Within the Sinaloa Cartel, he began Los Negros, Los Chachos, and several though with the collective goal of growing the gangs have been accused of collectively committing many more in other countries, alongside untold This level of activity Despite his efforts to keep a low profile, El DEA and the FBI by the early 1990s. However, drug lord. Instead, El Chapo was first captured a hotel in Tapachula, Guatemala. He was handed sent back to his home country for trial. He Readaptation Center No. 1 - also known as La Palma Mexico's maximum prison sentence of 20 years and bribery, and criminal association. In 1995, El Chapo was transferred to the Federal Grande, where he was convicted of several other of firearms. He was also tried for the murder of charge and El Chapo would serve no time for it. but it was just the beginning. to keep running his empire from behind bars. He which he was able to arrange conjugal visits and running. That alone would have been embarrassing Which is that El Chapo was becoming Many of the villagers in his home district of who had risen from poverty to become the most also can't escape mention that El Chapo's gave jobs - however illegitimate - to hundreds of the drug lord had experienced himself. To them he And that legend only grew when El Chapo The story goes that El Chapo bribed a host escape from Puente Grande. One of those guards was or "The Silent One." He was responsible for into a laundry cart. El Chito pushed El Chapo down coming to a set of electronic doors that had into a parking lot, where El Chapo moved from Monte Carlo before being driven away. in the parking lot at the time. it is certain that he received inside help. into Puente Grande led to the arrests of 71 of falling under suspicion. He was out and free to continue running of freedom brought renewed violence to the Sinaloa murders in the region was around 400 in 2007. El Chapo's cartel started killing rivals and 2008, just under 1,500 in 2009, and finally El Chapo was back, and his cartel Between 2001 and 2013, El Chapo increased by an entourage of armed guards at all times, during a visit to another country. He used buy bullet-proof vehicles, private airplanes, conduct a quick escape if the authorities ever his own security, El Chapo seemed confident in accounts even claimed that he would often ordering everybody to turn off their cell with it - and grew his legend - because he would But El Chapo was growing overconfident. working on another plan to capture him. That year the arrests of several of his top lieutenants member believed to be complicit in at least 350 captures with information from wiretaps, tips Mexican authorities were slowly getting closer In 2014, they finally had a location. him wouldn't be enough. No, now it was time For the 13 years since El Chapo's escape, he had States, to the point where the U.S. was offering a his capture. Ultimately, it wouldn't need to make General de la Republica, or PGR, captured a Fernandez Dominguez, also known as El Pelacas. But that didn't matter because he was carrying they needed - 20 cell phones filled with of the contacts had numbers that use the quickly concluding that at least some of those More raids followed. the PGR, Mexican Federal Police, and the Mexican the arrest of Joel Enrique Sandoval Romero, capture as El 19 was believed to have murdered El Mayo. However, El 19 wouldn't break. who were arrested alongside him that gave the One of the cell phones they were More traces followed. On February 16, 2014, data that Mexico's authorities had gathered to Hoo Ramirez, El Condor was El Chapo's chief information. The U.S. and Mexico discovered the along with a stash house located in Mexico. phone number of Mario Hidalgo Arguello - Chapo who went by the alias El Nariz and was Mexico finally had the man it Just hours after tracing El Nariz's home in Culiacan. He was arrested on his dinner for El Chapo at a local restaurant, El Nariz broke. everything that he knew, including information several addresses where the cartel boss may be. Navy, which tasked its Marines with conducting The first of those raids took Mexico's finest raided a property in the belonged to El Chapo's ex-wife. They didn't find drug kingpin's belongings during the raid. But told them that El Chapo rarely spent more than more on their list to investigate. Still, it of those addresses because El Chapo had made they raised his ex-wife's home. El Chapo had made a brief but desperate call Culiacan before the Mexican Navy descended upon Navy to a house in Libertad. But there was a much the Navy pounded on it. Later, it was found but that it had been custom-made to have water breaking down due to the Mexican heat. It took the which they entered only to find there was nobody been raised using hydraulic lifts. Under that The Mexican Navy had missed The Marines sent to storm the building the hidden tunnel, only to find that it opened troops flooded into the streets to block Chapo from escaping on foot. A U.S. drone was so it could alert the Navy if El Chapo the Navy discovered a tactical vest on one of the they reached a storm drain that let out into a The Navy had lost the trail and Still, the net was closing around the Mexican authorities captured El Picudo, detailed how El Chapo made his escape - he'd and was picked up in a vehicle by El Picudo. where El Chapo switched vehicles before being it would have felt like El Chapo was out of the He'd been accompanied during his escape Another raid followed, this time on Ramirez's fortunate breakthrough. On February 20, 2014, send a text to a fellow cartel member. Mexican which led them to the Sinaloa resort of Mazatlan. their chance, thinking that El Chapo had already Still, they decided to conduct a raid on anyway. If nothing else, they might capture Hoo They'd ended up getting a As evening drew close on February 21, 2014, 40 They weren't alone. American agents from the U.S. and DEA linked up with the Marines, with all The Hotel Miramar. was a 12-story building containing dozens of rooms be hiding. Knowing these variables could lead the Marines descended on the building on to quiz the staff. There, they discovered that One of those rooms had to contain Ramirez. with one making its way to the sixth floor of the Just a pair of American tourists who awoke to At the same time, another team of six Marines made Jackpot. an AK-47 rifle. There was no dramatic shootout, But wait a second. If Ramirez that would suggest somebody was with him. The Marines stormed the room, discovering El of the bedrooms, along with his two children Maria had spent so long - and so many failed operations his wife, with both surrendering without the Navy raid beginning, El Chapo was under arrest. By the time of El Chapo's dramatic arrest, the 50 countries. The American Attorney General achievement," noting that El Chapo's criminal of people around the world not only due to that allowed his cartel to prosper. There he would await a trial that would likely prison. However, the elusive escape artist prison - which was 55 miles west of Mexico City, high-security facility before. As Mexico's Navy bureaus - celebrated El Chapo's arrest, the That escape would take place on July 11, 2015. Altiplano prison. It had been roughly 50 minutes sighting was when the drug lord received his and he was no longer visible on the prison's down to El Chapo's cell only to find nothing. Measuring about two square feet, the opening held the same size as El Chapo - five feet and six into a tunnel that extended for about a mile they discovered a motorbike - adapted to roll on used to transport tools as they built the tunnel. construction site, a mile away from Altiplano. that was roughly the same size as the one in El had once again escaped and was free to conduct with 18 of the guards at Altiplano being quizzed A new manhunt was underway. wouldn't have to wait years to get their man. run before he was tracked to the northwestern an anonymous civilian. Working in tandem with they captured the drug lord in Mazatlan - the Navy El Chapo would be captured - dead or alive. of Mexico's Marines converged on 1002 Jiquilpan staying, according to the tip. They chose this be sleeping, with his guards also likely to They wouldn't be prepared A signal is given, and the marines storm dozen cartel gunmen, collectively armed with Those gunmen proved no match for the Marines. members dead. Go Pro footage later released on Marines in action, moving from room to room whenever they encountered a threat. died at their hands. portion of the house, the Marines moved upstairs men in one of the rooms, with both being taken two women lying on the floor. One of those women El Chapo when he was captured in 2014. Again, both the house was under the Marines' control. After had also discovered a weapons cache containing loaded rocket-propelled grenade launcher, and two the Marines, El Chapo's henchmen hadn't been able But there was a problem. Chapo. With the fighting having died down, the been hiding in the only bedroom found on the first to enter as it had been barricaded. The Marines at the door - finding several hidden doors along They discovered El Chapo was still The bedroom contained several bags from high-end and a king-size bed. The Marines also found and, strangely, injectable testosterone. Further equipped it with flat-screen TVs and an internet Mexican telenovela, lay on the bed. That little show - Kate del Castillo - had reportedly been in of a film chronicling the drug lord's life. Then, the breakthrough. The search of the bedroom Within that fixture lay a handle that, once that led down into yet another escape tunnel. El and had used the tunnels he favored so much when tunnels revealed that they led down into all felt lost. After all, El Chapo had a 20-minute 15 minutes clearing the house and another five El Chapo had escaped once again. Surveillance footage showed El Chapo and one of from which they quickly stole two cars so they as one of the carjacking victims called the the car El Chapo used in his getaway. ABC News, reporting on the account delivered lieutenant were stopped by the Mexican Federal the city. The four officers who made the arrest informed that 40 cartel assassins were on their attempted to bribe the officers with cash, homes, die" for their role in his arrest. The officers' by taking El Chapo to the Dous motel, with the drug lord to Los Mochis airport so he could be Time Magazine offers a different account. car contacted the police, the Mexican Marines lord must have felt like he'd escaped once his hotel room where they forced the filthy and Either way, El Chapo was once again in custody. decided that El Chapo needed to be incarcerated the U.S. to stand trial. On July 17, 2019, he plus 30 years to run consecutively to the life offenses and a murder conspiracy. El Chapo would meaning every asset he owned would El Chapo's Sinaloa Cartel empire was shattered. in Colorado. But his story hasn't ended yet. Chapo during his time in prison, check