(wind blowing) - [Narrator] Thursday. (dramatic music) Wayne Kernochan was stuck at home during an excruciatingly long winter. He was what his parents Experiencing nightmares, and getting in trouble at school. His parents' method of Having gone on record to state with hockey sticks. It was undeniable that their humble abode in suburban Connecticut was for him and more of a cell of torment. (dramatic music) The phone rings in the It's from a school up north called Elan. The man on the phone says that and that they'll have a at Danbury airport. His mom tells him not to outdoor camp type thing According to the flyer she read, it was proven with a 95% success rate and their alumni were all than when they first arrived there. Counselors, psychiatrists, Elan had it all he was told. And so Wayne packed up Eager, sure, nervous, yes. But absolutely awaiting (plane rumbling) The plane touches down in Portland, Maine. Two men greet him. (dramatic music) After embarking for the school his escorts inquire on - [Man] Drugs? - [Narrator] Nope. - [Man] Court order? - [Narrator] No. - [Man] So why the hell are you going? - [Narrator] They joke. And then things get quiet. It was at this moment when he was going to the Something didn't seem right, but he was willing to give The two pull off a back &quot;Looks like a camp&quot; he thinks. However, when he exits the vehicle, he isn't greeted with a but instead with screaming. (muffled, distant yelling) (gentle music) The 1970s were an interesting time. Across the United States, a rise in for-profit behavior were in action. Now called the troubled It seemed to be a money and stifling troublesome The exact data is hard to nature of the names, motives, and specialties of each of these schools, but they were widespread throughout the eighties. It's widely believed that era's youth were the catalyst Given that this was the of the hippie subculture authority was and had been challenged for years resulting in a sort of panic Resultingly in early Gerald Davidson alongside and a man named Joseph Ricci a school named Elan, a private program geared from grade Ricci built the facility bad behavior by teens without punishment, while painting himself as a genuine mentor that could help make that happen. Sitting on 33 acres of land in Poland, Maine, Elan's main and a long shot from any With numerous facilities in place the school was well equipped hundreds and within the they'd eventually meet that metric. Numerous alumni, much like Wayne, have gone on record to outside impression of the like a summer camp in the Maine woods. However, upon arrival reality would paint a different picture. Allegedly, the final minutes of the trip there were unforgettable down a long dirt road in and made up of rundown giving it a frightening feeling of dread. Furthermore, some have the vehicle expecting a lively campground they're instead faced with Some students were spotted some shackled in handcuffs, some being yelled at and pretend it's normal. At this point it's been attempt to flee. They weren't entirely sure but it was clear to them These escape efforts were as Elan station guards and subdue outliers Considering how the school was marketed, touting itself as an genuinely concerned with helping troubled teenagers get better that those claims were a reach. But just how far would they take that? (gentle music) What most students were their back a deal was (gentle music) With nothing but a simple parents could sign their which advertised itself as a positive reaffirming center of growth. According to an excerpt archive of their website, we can observe the vernacular to each parent. Dear parents, we're and confused you must feel if you're like the parents you're faced with an is out of control, and you don't know why. A youngster who's been given everything and is throwing it all away But you can see that this The most saddening part is is ruining his or her future. Your own pain is difficult, but your pain for your By coming to Elan, you have come to a truly different school. We can't offer you miracles, We know that your journey to We hope Elan can change its course. On top of this school staff to parents while persuading just might be troubled. It's been noted that Joseph Ricci was somewhat of a salesman. He was charismatic and excelled the good that Elan The good that as we'll I'd like to let it be known story was on the lighter side. For most of the other students, things were handled a bit more violently. Instead of a plane school that they were transported by van. Reportedly once your parents and pay the $50,000 tuition fee, they designate a time and teen escort service. They wouldn't pick you Instead in the middle of the they would bust through In years past Elan staff have has no say in attending on the element of surprise. According to a blog the abduction process involves two men breaking into the teen's bedroom, tying them up with plastic handcuffs, throwing them into a van, and then driving them to Poland, Maine, where they'd be handed Such experiences often who were abducted. For all they knew at first by criminals to be held ransom, tortured, or worse killed. For the girls it was even more terrifying. Some girls later recalled that going to be. - [Man] Raped, sexually assaulted. - [Narrator] And murdered One certainly can't blame the Such practices had all the hallmarks of a violent kidnapping. This practice became notorious Eventually earning its If this were any indication, it was clear that morality but that ultimately begs the question, would it stop there or was their torment only just beginning? (gentle music) Day one. Students would typically morning hours of the day. Due to the nature of they were often known It's been noted that their utilizing their escape to convey that no matter what they're not getting out of there. And with this came the first Instilling the feeling that robbed of them, in turn of a student and more like a prisoner. This sentiment was taken even further when they're physically Often the first stop would which served as a tool of their sense of individuality. Reportedly students are thrown no privacy and are demanded to and valuable items. After complying they're no image clothing, which simply includes a bland Effectively forcing them Following this each new into a common area where a big brother. This in essence was a to be a guide. On paper they were told to to their new life on campus. Someone like a peer while and effective the program is. In reality though, this It's been reported that big deceive their newer counterparts, enticing them to run away If the student had to ever to this their behavior would resulting in punishment. As we've seen in studies like the Stanford prison experiment, I'm sure you can see why Oftentimes big brother figures, much like staff would take superiority over the newer students. It fulfilled them in a way (birds chirping) - You just want to feel (yelling). You're doing it. You and everybody else has to. Get it right. - You know it's lack of quality. You know it's crap. You know this will not be tolerated. - Nobody every thinks about Nothing's your responsibility. You never clean the bathroom this morning. - Maybe you should remember next time you'll do this off the wall. You'll get to clean off the showers too. You and every one of them uses a shower. You're just being irresponsible. - If you wanna act like a if you wanna act as a you get talked to. (yelling) - [Narrator] Speaking of cults, the social hierarchy at Elan heavily resembles one. At the school students into two categories. Strengths, which were that were a few steps up the totem pole. And non-strengths, the newer ones who typically Strengths were allowed to and non-strengths. Non-strengths on the other to communicate with strengths. If a non-strength were with a non-strength, harsh (gentle music) The Elan school as we've on the feeling of hopelessness. Throughout students' tenures there, they were forbidden to contact unless they've earned the privilege through good behavior and compliance. Every single phone line from a single switchboard located And it was heavily If a student were to gain the privilege of contacting their family, it's been reported that only permitted to praise it's done to help them If they ever were to be or revealing the atrocities they were quickly and robbed of any future potential to use the phone lines ever again. (gentle music) On top of the phone manipulation, every Elan resident was the school calls a guilt letter, which as you might expect as Elan school is for them, all the great activities they do there, and how well they're These letters would be heavily scrutinized before being mailed out to their parents. Effectively this tactic's To allow an Elan's and to entice their on their treatment in turn than they had ever planned to. In reality, students were and in most cases verbally tortured at the pleasure of the Elan school staff. It was clear to students that this anytime soon. And after realizing this, their minds would often and towards compliance in hopes of powering through the program. This drove most of them to ultimately stuck in a system it possibly can to make (gentle music) As you might expect the rules at the Elan school were immense. Exerting nearly totalitarian control over everything that happens. Joe Ricci's set of rules, which he called guilt was gargantuan and needlessly meticulous. As a student at Elan you would doing the following. Having any image, reading not completing learning experiences, writing without looking at security zones, talking too loudly, talking too softly, looking at the opposite gender, any physical contact, looking out windows, unauthorized drawing, not pretending to sleep at night, being in the bathroom for too being manipulative, listening to music, talking too much, showering for more than three minutes, not talking enough, making negative body language, pretending not to have under sleeping, smiling, and the list goes on and on. Clearly these roles were causing harsh penalization To help enforce these individuals designated by the school to Primarily they were known to catch those that broke three rules, being attracted to members looking at the opposite gender, and making prolonged eye Since expediters too were with names and infractions at the risk of their own punishment, they frequently and and accusations that were a lie. (gentle music) As you'd expect punishment and not in a good way. One example involved to live in a dumpster for over two weeks. The expediter watching them compliance and preventing If their subordinates acted out however, the expediter on duty would dumpster with them while being monitored by yet another who is up to the task. Another major tactic at They figured that by breaking forcing students into they could drive them to a Those who tried to escape were and their punishment for doing shoe laces and the requirement t-shirts and short pink shorts. The school figured that without laces, their shoes were effectively useless in turn preventing any than a walk. A more extreme example of is shown with this student. Instead of a t-shirt and shorts though, he was forced to wear a with cuffs around his legs. It's unclear if this is a repeat offender, but it raises the question would actually go with this tactic. Students that smiled out by wearing dunce caps and reduced to work that These involved repetitious, scrubbing the insides of trash cans, and even cleaning toilets for hours and hours on end. If you had to use the it's been noted that approval superiors was required And even then an escort had to watch you while you were in there. This on top of a myriad of like humiliating sign and diaper wearing it's clear that Elan kept an iron grip on their daily operations. Their daily operations that took up most of the daily schedule and those that were deceptively themselves as their treatment. (gentle music) But I will say all of these compared to what we're Let's just say if you they could start something And trust me, you wouldn't want one. (dramatic music) There seemed to be no standard for them. They would just happen at If staff were annoyed or felt student for some reason, they could call a general Once these words were uttered, everyone in the building in front of the students in Get your feelings off the And following this each screaming at and berating the students, firing off slurs and obscenities No matter how much the student no matter how much they broke down, no matter how much they cried until the admin said so. (yelling) And when it finally did, often crying and exhausted that they'd just endured. It's clear that general meetings aren't designed to reprimand. They're designed to completely that's the subject of one. And with this we can effectively that Elan was doing nothing more than running an operation that Any self thought or sliver thought they had was gone. They were merely reduced to weapons. Weapons that at a moment's be used against them. (dramatic music) (bell ringing) 7:00 PM. (dramatic music) Contrary to its focus on school time within Elan was secondhand to the student's treatment. Typically the timeframe for but sometimes could run longer. As you might expect there no physical education, no projects, no legitimate exams, nothing. Instead, students were required that they were self-assigned The structure of class typically supervising a room full of children. Each night of learning out of freshmen level textbooks, which unsurprisingly would be immensely uneventful. Given that class time was after a long day full of verbal abuse, monotonous tasks, and a hierarchy system that the lower classes, students dozing off and losing track of Curiously school time too was regarded as a privilege at Elan. Joe Ricci has gone on record to state that the class schedule itself was designed this way on purpose. Allegedly, he believes while sleep deprived and utilized even this as a By 11:00 PM if a student makes without issue school hours They're quickly released from class and escorted to their dorms which were often in the impersonal military-style bunk beds. Sleep was known to be difficult night owls were assigned to In regular intervals they'd shine them on the sleeping students to both ensure that they hadn't escaped and to secure the fact that they're actually asleep. A requirement that as in the list of Elan's rules. And if one actually manages dozing off into their that would allow them to in the nightmare that is Elan. (crickets chirping) - [Man] House, wake up. - [Narrator] And then you (dramatic music) A notorious aspect of that happened there was Considered the highest level of punishment Elan staff could make the at any time. The structure was set up similar to that of a general meeting and when school staff believed wasn't harsh enough In the ring, a student and is outfitted with a Surrounding them are troves to scream and yell obscenities at them. While this is taking place to compete against the until school staff decided that they were sufficiently injured. No one was safe from the ring either. Some wore preexisting injuries, some were much smaller and some were even pregnant. Even worse, things seemed with superiors commentating on the matches like they were on TV. In reality though this was This was handcrafted abuse. Elan was meticulous about for the ring too. It's been noted that certain punished for another's actions, effectively engineering This was often noticed and their subordinates as they'd of their newer counterparts. And once they were angry enough, a ring fight would commence that they'd sustained PTSD, and even death. (gentle music) - It costs $17,400 to send for one year. Even at that price, there and parents who consider it a bargain. Elan's defenders claim it has the most consistently effective program who are too difficult for So many states want to use Elan But on the other hand, one state agency in Massachusetts youngsters here because the children are treated. One reason is the use Joe, you make no bones about it. There is corporal punishment here at Elan. Tell us about it. What are the stages that comes - Well, it's, it's First of all, and corporal, Okay, what it is, is we have the ring. Okay, which everybody misinterprets. It's, it's not a boxing ring, The bully is introduced as what he is. In this corner is the bully who's trying to turn this Okay, and in this corner who's gonna show him why it can't be done. And that's exactly how it does. And we never allowed the bully to win. - Girls get put in the ring too. - Well girls bully as well as boys though. I mean, you know, it we're a equal rights facility. We also use spanking, which is symbolic. And again, it's the last resort. Okay, and it's, and it's another resident and it's Okay and usually a person won't or twice, but it's a symbolic thing, which is if you're gonna you should be treated like a baby. - [Narrator] On December Elan student named Philip He wasn't the largest kid there, but he was known to do what He had grown up in a family of division, regularly witnessing his father With this there was an anger within him, a sadness that Elan noticed And so that evening a ring as the bully. There was fight after fight after fight. In the end it's been reported that he fell flat on the floor and it took an entire 20 was called to help him. 20 minutes or so they They took Phil and they His sister claims. I thought it was a wonderful place. I thought they were helping my brother. I thought he was coming home. He came home alright. In a box. Elan's official response was that he had regularly faked headaches. The cause of death, a brain aneurysm, and no charges were (gentle music) It's been clear to us from a place of good. From humiliation to Elan's tactics were archaic and inhumane. For a school that markets on helping students get it's crystal clear that this What I find interesting now first to utilize this type of In fact it has its roots in all the way back in the mid 1950s. That cult is one by the name of Synanon. - [Newscaster] Howdy, with reports of child abuse. - [Woman] In recent years Synanon began calling itself a religion. - [Guy] He's 52 years old. He's deaf in one ear, he's an egomaniac, but one of the wisest person He knows how to get people moving. He creates turbulence. - [Anchor] Gentlemen, no member of the California permitted on Synanon property, unless he has the permission of Charles Dederich, chairman Synanon. (yelling) - [Narrator] In early Charles Dederich Senior in Santa Monica, California. It was intended to be a aimed at delinquents. However in the years that followed, it appeared to stray from The distinguishing form of was something called the game. Which in today's terms, it's more commonly The focus of the game was to of an individual's mind to open up about themselves beratement session much with general meetings. The primary goal was to and sense of self by completely know about themselves as a newer subjectively better person. It hinged on the brink of legality while being entirely immoral the cult would disband due that caught up to many of their members. The founder also died leaving behind a dark is known as one of the most dangerous and violent cults that This is of course the abridged history. To be honest with you, I can make an entire hour and practices of Synanon, but that's a story for another day. If there's one takeaway tonight though, it's that it unknowingly and blueprint for other One of those being Elan and by they appeared to carry was forced to abandon. They knew they had to thriving off an immaculate public image spearheaded by the charisma of Joe Ricci. Before the age of the internet, admittedly this was easier to do. Television documentaries like in NBC's For the Child's Own Good were that the public was allowed to gain. However even they failed of what happened there. The hush hush foundation initially seemed to be unbreakable. However, due to a rise in find its way there, it was becoming increasingly beneath that very foundation (dramatic music) (birds chirping) (dramatic music) Through the late seventies reports of the true nature by word of mouth from former students. Authorities in Maine reportedly of 12 times to investigate, however returned with absolutely Frustratingly, the operation was completely and entirely legal. There were no laws in place So it was allowed to remain As we touched on the for outsiders at Elan. However even they failed of their operations. While they showed select parts of it, unfortunately Joe Ricci to convince the public and the more than their treatment taking place. By dehumanizing the students, emphasizing their delinquencies he was able to use this ultimately swaying the that what he was doing was entirely good. On top of the growing came an increase in escapees, which only furthered Over the years, three students, a 16 year old unidentified individual, a 15 year old Brad Glickman, and a 17 year old Dawn Birnbaum would all escaped successfully. However would meet wildly differing fates. For the 16 year old it's over 15 miles through the wilderness in the middle of the night. He was eventually caught and after hearing the boy's story and observing his physical condition, he helped him return home. For Brad Glickman, he was shot. In 1990 after escaping he made his way into a Authorities believed that he that lived there. However, the homeowner opened fire, ultimately killing him. And for Dawn Birnbaum, she too had escaped the clutches of Elan, eventually finding a who was willing to take her home. A few hours down the road though, Birnbaum would find that weren't quite so virtuous. As it turned out he sexually assaulted her on the side of the and abandoning her body between routes 26 and 550 in Pennsylvania. She was discovered by another tied around her neck and without and from her corpse were tire tracks resembling that of a semi-trailer. Since Birnbaum had crossed state lines, an FBI investigation And after cross-checking that have happened in the area, the truck belonging to James Upon catching up to him authorities were able to that belonged to Birnbaum, effectively leading to his arrest. Much to the school's displeasure these cases successfully Joe Ricci resultingly and journalists in hopes of However outsiders were that these students were (dramatic music) But why? (crickets chirping) (dramatic music) On the night of October 30th, 1975, a 15 year old girl named friends participating in what This typically involves tee peeing houses, ding dong ditching, Later that night Moxley found eventually kissing him to venture off. To the other friends in their over the Skakel's was the very last time that The next morning the Moxley They go about their morning routine, however notice that Martha is missing. Upon searching the house for her, they notice a body lying by They approach it and Martha is laying lifeless Her body appears to and a few feet away from the body, broken remnants of a six iron golf club. This club was eventually traced Autopsy reports claimed and stabbed to death all by that six iron. And since Thomas Skakel was with that night he was the Due to a lack of sufficient he among the other suspects And as a result the Moxley (dramatic music) Three years later. (dramatic music) Thomas' 18 year old brother is arrested for drunk driving. His punishment, admission to Elan. While there Skakel was known to be problematic and outspoken. According to Elan students at the time, he would regularly boast and how he sexually One student named Gregory recounting how Michael had I'm going to get away with murder. I'm a Kennedy. The Kennedy reference was to Robert F. Kennedy. Something that would prove trial to the national spotlight. At the time of his confession though nobody could do anything about it. Given the overbearing nature any student that tried to was quickly reprimanded. It would take an entire 22 would reach the public eye. In January of 2000 he was arrested and charged with the and due to his relation to the Kennedys it was a case that commanded the airwaves. Since Skakel's primary vehicle was Elan this by proxy into the national spotlights. Dozens of students took the that occurred there. The humiliation, the general the ring, the deaths, all of it was brought into the public eye. Realizing this Joe Ricci did to keep discussion about He eventually took the stand downplaying any mention of Elan, touting its high success rates and doing everything he the attention back to But this was only marginally effective as this was in the 2000s, an interconnected era of information catalyzed by a little Michael Skakel was eventually and was sentenced to 20 After serving just 11 years behind bars, he was granted a new trial in after posting a $1.2 million bond. Today, he walks a free man. But back then the cat was out of the bag. The inhumanities committed documented in one of the most And because of this, people began talking, effectively marking the beginning iron grip on the hundreds of students that were helpless beneath him. (dramatic music) But with his weakening grasp operation came a different would soon have to overcome. In June of 2000, he was diagnosed with lung cancer caused by his well known And just six months later on Joe Ricci would pass at 54 years old. As a result, his second wife Sharon Terry would take over operations at Elan. It was clear though that due among the rising alumni testimonies, the idea of Terry having a was putting it lightly. Throughout the years numerous in response to outside For instance, the ring from being used as punishment. And while this was the other cruelties would remain. What Sharon Terry was unaware of though, was that due to the namely the internet, even her reign over Elan When the water settled mentions of Elan or made on various forums throughout the next few years. They would get people talking. However, it wasn't quite By 2010 though, something would change. A website that we all know one of the most effective exposed stories in the history of the internet. That website was Reddit. On November 26th, 2010, a man named Jeff W who went by titled even skimming this Most probably think it's made Within it he explains that he before outlining in detail the reality of what took place there. They're mostly points and explored in great detail tonight. But back then these The school was very So some initially had a tough around the fact that a place But then came the comments, the other stories from other alumni with their own experiences. Gzasmyhero's post carried And these atrocities needed to be known. Eventually this thread would and 1,400 comments. While this may not have caused it aggressively reopened old wounds. 2010 was not 2000. The internet user base than it had been. And resultingly the attention caused a that the Elan school had (dramatic music) Four months later. On the 23rd of March, 2011, the Elan school announced be shutting down. Sharon Terry blamed the call libelous remarks made about them online. The school has been the target of harsh and false attacks spread over the internet with the avowed purpose of The school unfortunately has been unable to survive the damage. And on the 1st of April, 2011, the Elan school would close Officially they blamed it in hopes of diverting the attention away from the actual cause. But on the outside, everyone knew the real reason. For students this was However the damage they that would remain everlasting. It's been reported that as a result of attendance at Elan. PTSD with alumni is rampant. And it's clear that the but damage people. A filmmaker and former student a fantastic Elan documentary has gone on record to he was helped by their but he knew the majority of Today hundreds of stories committed at the Elan school, about the facade they upkept for 41 years. Reading through these are eyeopening, and you can find them on and documentation that To all of you that have that have opened up about your voice is the reason that This video would not exist without you. And I wish I could say But I don't. (gentle music) While there are and have like this throughout history, those are another story for another time. The legacy that Elan left Knowing the true history of what occurred off Number Five Road is haunting. And no matter if it the psychological destruction will very unfortunately forever remain. (gentle music)