Professor Paul Bloom: The last class we talked about Now we're going to talk a foundations. to talk about two very big ideas with Sigmund Freud and B. Skinner and are psychoanalysis And I want to talk about behaviorism next week. of the things that makes these scope. talk about in this class--Most So, we're going to talk about prejudice but that's not a We'll talk about theories of explanations of sexual Most theories are specialized grand theories. encompassing just about day-to-day life, mental illness, love. explanations of all of these. course. describing historical figures in telling you about the history of What I want to tell you about these ideas because so much even more importantly, critical influence on how we And that's there. we live in a world profoundly If I had to ask you to choose psychologist, be Freud. psychologist ever and he's had a twentieth and twenty-first Some biographical information: He spent most of his life in but he died in London and he retreating there at the Nazis began to occupy where he He's one of the most famous for any single discovery. development of an encompassing one that he developed over the He was in his time extremely recognized on the street, He was a man of extraordinary in part because he was a very but also just in general. of person. in medicine and in literature; didn't get the prize in Einstein--Everybody loves Albert Well, Albert Einstein really asked for opinions of other He wrote a letter saying, He doesn't deserve a Nobel He's just a psychologist.&quot; Okay. acclaimed as a profoundly he's also the object of This is in part because of his He was not a very nice man in He was deeply ambitious to the psychoanalysis, view and defending it, extremely brutal to his enemies. My favorite Freud story was as rise of the Nazis, England from, Austria, he had to sign a letter Gestapo agents intercepted him saying that at no point had he the Gestapo. he writes underneath it, in any way. Gestapo to everybody.&quot; aggression to him. disliked, often hated, He was seen as a sexual conception of people as good and And when the Nazis rose to identified as a Jew who was sacred notions of Christianity to some extent, And to some extent, to it. that many of us, would rather not know. What did he say? doesn't like Freud what he said, stupider things he said and, things, some of which were not For instance, of phallic symbols, monuments are subconsciously representations. he developed the notorious And penis envy is an account of one of you who is female has according to Freud. discovered at some point in your penis. catastrophe. that point that you had been You had once had a penis but You then turn to your father your father has a penis, substitute. who's equally unworthy due to and that shapes your Now, if that's the sort of you are not going to have a his work, declamation, the more is a set of claims of a man's And the two main ones are this. existence of an unconscious, and the notion of unconscious which lead to mental illnesses, so on. unconscious motivation - that you know what you're doing. with somebody and you decide you somebody was asked to ask you like, this stage of my life; the person is smart and I want to have kids&quot; whatever. But a Freudian might say that answer - you're not lying to there are desires and behavior that you may not be So, in fact, because he reminds you of your get back at somebody for If somebody was to tell you &quot;That's total nonsense,&quot; but The Freudian would say that so of course you just don't know So, the radical idea here is do what you do and this is like visual perception. the world and you get sensations car, there is a tree, And you're just unconscious of unpleasant and kind of happen, like why you're now studying at do towards your friends, Now, the marriage case is simpler examples where this sort play a role. somebody or disliked them and Have you ever found yourself in something or you're arguing for for reasons that you can't fully Have you ever forgotten wrong time? wrong name in the throes of This is all the Freudian The idea is that we do these explained in terms of cognitive Now, all of this would be fine reasonable, rational computer, smart and looking out for your But, according to Freud, According to Freud, processes going on in your head internal conflict. you think are products, being, but of a set of And these three parts are the and they emerge developmentally. is present at birth. self. drink, pee, poop, satisfaction. It works on what Freud called, It wants pleasure and it wants And that's, according to Freud, Freud had this wonderful perversity,&quot; this pure desire Now, unfortunately, What you want isn't always what of reactions to cope with the there when you want it either by desires or planning how to And this system is known as the And it works on the &quot;Reality And it works on the principle make your way through the world, or, in some cases, And the ego - the emergence the origin of consciousness. it might be a simpler world, component, that of the superego. internalized rules of parents in So, what happens in the course you're just trying to make your satisfy your desires, for them. some actions are wrong, The idea is that you come out; superego, a conscience. there'd be a little angel above things are wrong. the ego, is in between the id One thing to realize, outrageously stupid. &quot;Oh, hungry, let's get warm, The superego is also stupid. point to point, philosopher telling you about The superego would say, yourself. Stop doing that. And in between these two one of you; out your desires, &quot;you should be ashamed of is the ego. most of this is unconscious. top, we feel, And the driving of the id, forces of the superego, cannot access them. the workings of our kidneys or You can't introspect and find Rather, they do their work Now, Freud developed this. broad outline. into a theory of psychosexual And so, Freud's theory is, a theory of everyday life, of errors, of falling in love, development. five stages of personality associated with a particular And Freud believed, problem at a certain stage, you'll be stuck there. there are people in this room they got stuck in the oral stage And that's not good. start off. pleasure. chewing and so on. premature weaning of a child. could lead to serious problems It could make him, into an oral person. described literally. for why somebody might eat too They're trying to achieve of a sort they didn't get in development. abstract. and needy, you could then go to &quot;You are an oral person. not go well.&quot; the anal stage and that happens And problems can emerge if correctly. those years of life, personality, and your roommate could say, anal.&quot; literally, it meant you are feces. It's written down here. And the way it manifests how people talk, you're clean, This is the anal personality. complicated. stage. complicated. the genitals and fixation can females or in males or if you're domination. really interesting happens And this is based on the story, who killed his father and And, according to Freud, this way. By &quot;all of us,&quot; Freud meant So, here's the idea. You're in the phallic stage. Well, you're interested in your external object. this, but you seek some sort of But who is out there who'd be wonderful? So the child infers, I love Mom.&quot; crazy; with his mother. Now, this is going to get have to say, as the father of both sons went through a phase wanted to marry Mommy. happened to me that wouldn't be So, there's this. aggressive. determines that he's going to Every three- and four-year-old But then because children, don't have a good sense of the the world, problem is they don't - they they're plotting to kill him and angry at them. &quot;What's the worst thing Dad And the answer is castration. that their father is going to illicit love for their Mom. &quot;Dad wins&quot; and then they don't years and that's the latency The latency stage is they've with Mom and Dad, wanted to kill my father, fell out of love with Mom, And then, sex is repressed stage. stage we are all in - the Now that you're adults and developmental stages, You're not out of the woods yet are still--Even if you haven't there's still this dynamic id, your ego and your superego. superego--Remember, So, your superego isn't only things, it's telling you not to So, what's happening is your id sick stuff, all of these crazy &quot;Oh, I'll kill him. I'll have extra helpings on my And your superego is saying, And this stuff is repressed. consciousness. sort of hydraulic theory of what slips out and it shows up in of the tongue. it shows up in certain clinical So what happens is, life in terms of different ways stuff from the id making its way And he called these &quot;defense You're defending yourself yourself and some of these make One way to describe this in a non-Freudian way is, ourselves we'd rather not know. rather not know and we have ways So, for instance, Sublimation is you might have a maybe sexual energy or but instead of turning it to a you do is you focus it in some So, you can imagine a great sexual energy into his artwork. Displacement is you have desires and you refocus them A boy who's bullied by his want to hurt him but since this difficult. dog and think he hates the dog target. There is projection. I have certain impulses I am so rather than own them myself, else. homosexual desires. tremendous lust towards you, and--any of you, and I'm ashamed of this lust so &quot;Hey. sexual manner? How disgusting,&quot; because what I I project it to others. perhaps not implausibly, men--who are obsessed with the are themselves projecting away There is rationalization, something or think something bad it a more socially acceptable A parent who enjoys smacking say, &quot;I enjoy smacking my Rather he'll say, I'm being a good parent by And finally, which is returning to an And you actually see this in In times of stress and trauma, they will act younger. They might suck their thumb, Now, these are all mechanisms slightest bit pathological. Normally, we do these things to different systems of the doesn't work. what happens is a phrase that's but was popular during Freud's Hysteria includes phenomena hysterical deafness, and cannot hear even though wrong with you - paralysis, gaps of memory including And the idea is that these are These are symptoms of things unconscious. movies. that somebody goes to an They have some horrible problem. or they have some sort of And the analyst tells them get this insight and they blinded themselves, and for Freud this is what Freud originally attempted to hypnosis but then moved to the and, the idea is patients offer idea of a psychoanalyst is to patients get insight. psychoanalysis is your problems phenomena. yourself, and once you know phenomena your problems will go I'm going to give you an Now, this is not a Freudian We'll discuss later on in the is, but this is not a pure A Freudian analysis, does not see their therapist; nondirective. as an example here because it Freudian themes, dreams, the importance of about hidden meaning. episode and the may have seen this. The character is suffering from Freud's contributions extend psychology and individual Freud had a lot to say about illustration. manifest content, &quot;manifest&quot; meaning what you But dreams always had a latent meaning the hidden implication He viewed all dreams as wish Every dream you have is a though it might be a forbidden have, you wouldn't want to have. idea that long predated Freud. Things in dreams were often not rather symbols for other things. and fairy tales and stories to certain universal themes, struggles, and certain unconscious mind. about religion. he viewed a large part of singular, a father figure that some of us What I want to spend the rest scientific assessment of Freud. told you what Freud had to say I then want to take the time to should believe this and how well But before doing so, minutes. about Freud or Freud's theories? Yes. [inaudible] So, that's some question. The conflicts in psychosexual is--always assumes that a child one of each, structure. &quot;What if a child was raised by for example?&quot; breast fed, but fed from the And Freudians have had problems Freud's--Freud was very focused he interacted with, Europeans, and these sort of difficult for Freud to answer. would have to say is, differences. who just grew up with a mother father--with a father to be in damaged by that, normal psychosexual stages. Student: Professor Paul Bloom: &quot;Do modern psychoanalysts still superegos?&quot; out, Freud was notorious for women were morally immature I think Freud would say that they're just not the sort of I think psychoanalysts and now would be mixed. really are deep sex differences. that aspect of Freudian theory. Yes. Do you define sublimation as Does that make it sort of a Professor Paul Bloom: lot of these--It's a good The question is sort of, How does it relate to the other A lot of defense mechanisms turning it. it takes it from you to her. that's forbidden for some What projection does is takes a on somebody else heading And what sublimation does is it keeps the energy. stays up all night working and for instance, haven't had sex in a long time devote all your energy to your And then you say, I learned that in Intro Psych.&quot; pleased. Yes. What kind of evidence is there Professor Paul Bloom: which is related to the the two-parent versus one-parent &quot;To what extent are these cross-culturally?&quot; I'm going to defer it. few minutes because that's issue of the scientific to try to get to your question Freudian theory is now, extremely controversial and criticisms and attacks on Freud. excellent book on The Memory which--and Frederick Crews is passionate critics of Freud. like this. reject a theory. scientific theory. theory is that it could be So, suppose I have a theory children have autism, disorder, love them enough. many years. It just turns out to be wrong to attack and address a as just to see whether or not it But there's a different problem A theory could be so vague and even be tested. critiques of Freud. a quotation from the physicist And Pauli was asked his opinion And Pauli said this: He's not right. And the criticism about Freud The issue of vagueness is way by the philosopher Karl introduced the term of The idea of falsifiability is from non science is that strong claims about the world that they could be proven wrong. wrong, they're not interesting So, for example, claims we'll be entertaining claims like, causes failures of certain sorts world men on average want to women, television tends to make violent. false? but the point here is they can They're interesting enough that they go to--they might be wrong of a scientific theory. nonscientific programs and the program is astrology. astrological predictions is not It's that they can't be wrong. I did my--I got my horoscope &quot;A couple of negative aspects for the next few days.&quot; I'm going to watch for that. Venus suggests you want to box ordered, structured way but carnelian close will help you side.&quot; from my wife a little piece of touch with my fun side. a few days aren't going to go That was wrong.&quot; It's just so vague. The Onion actually: snow cone in hand, officers this week after of a suspected murderer.&quot; because &quot;wow.&quot; I'm going to say, something.&quot; Arguably, Freud fails the test so vague and flexible that it reliable way. lot of Freudian theory is course of psychoanalysis. &quot;Why do you believe in Freud?&quot; &quot;Oh, because of this this data set and that data What they'll say is, proves itself in the course of of psychoanalysis.&quot; The problem is, &quot;You hate your mother.&quot; That makes sense.&quot; The patient--Freud says, patient says, That's titillating. Freud says, &quot;Your anger shows You have repressed it from I am right.&quot; sort of dynamic plays itself out back and forth. psychologists--I'm putting Freud well-known defenders of Freud adult personality traits are psychosexual development; fulfillment; treatment for mental disorders. &quot;I disagree. supporting those claims.&quot; &quot;Your rejection of my ideas to you. And this is often followed up, &quot;You have deep psychological And now, I don't want to A lot of Freudians have tried extending their ideas bringing them to robust But the problem is, falsifiable predictions they So, for instance, and anal characteristics, I talked about - about being relate in any interesting way to And there's been some efforts to go back to the question this looking at cross-cultural and weaning, differences, to see if they way to personality differences. evidence supporting that. strong claims about sexuality, straight and others are gay. empirical support. psychoanalysis proves itself by in curing mental illness is also For most--Maybe not all, disorders, there are quicker and psychoanalysis. controversy as to whether the where you get this insight and &quot;Oh, now I know,&quot; makes any symptoms such as anxiety This is why there's sort shock when people go to a where they say, Hey. How could I take classes on Who's your expert on Freud?&quot; psychoanalysis is almost never departments. developmental side, There are some exceptions but, even the people who do study departments do so critically. themselves as a psychoanalytic psychologist. clinical setting and in the for instance, in the history department or the the psychology department. despite all of the, said about Freud, the importance of the dynamic We will go over and over and studies where some really life prove to be unconscious. I'm actually going to skip over just go to some examples of the psychology. the unconscious in modern understanding. like, &quot;John thinks that Bill second you realize that this likes John. sentence--Oops--&quot;John thinks fraction of a second you would that Bill likes Bill.&quot; get to the lecture on language, You don't know how you do this. are doing this but you do it So much of our day-to-day life There are different activities chewing gum, you're good enough at them, them, you don't know you're I was at a party a few years ran out of food so he said, food.&quot; gone--still gone and it was And we called him up on his &quot;Oh. drove to work.&quot; He works an hour away but he drive.&quot; these things happen all of the Maybe more surprising, and dislikes are due to factors conscious of has a lot of empirical support from research for example. social psychology. terrible initiation to get into more. less because people do terrible But actually, remarkably successful tool. the more you like it and the something the more you like it. for instance, political campaign, If you pay them, If they volunteer, And we'll talk about why. about why, but my point right necessarily know this but still Another example is some weird social psychology known as subliminal death primes. primes is this. subjects requirement and then computer screen and then they &quot;Oh, just sit in front of the ask you some questions.&quot; and they're questions like, country?&quot; &quot;What do you think of Jews?&quot; &quot;What do you think of &quot;What do you think of people's yours?&quot; What you don't know is on that flashed like that but they're like that--You don't see &quot;dead,&quot; &quot;dying.&quot; subliminal words, fancy term meaning below the you don't know you're seeing how you answer those questions. become more nationalistic, less forgiving of other people, people from other countries. explanation for why this is so in another class. illustrate that these sort of aren't aware of can have an The final example I'll give of To do this, I'm going to cut so you'll be on this side of the the right side, the left side, think about somebody you love. love, your girlfriend, your mom, your dad. Just think. Now, on this screen is going to give the instructions to this I'm going to ask everybody in either turn your head or shut Okay? Okay. . Has everybody read that? Now, turn your head, this group. Look at this and take a moment. paper but take a moment to do it You--Each group had Some people might have seen Follow the instructions you got Now, this was research done by question I want you to ask this person?&quot; Half of you were asked to list Half of you were asked to list The finding, is that liking goes up in the in the ten group. I have to think about three I think about my girlfriend. I think about my girlfriend, she's beautiful and she's kind. How much do--What do I think of &quot;Pretty, good, kind, smart, yeah.&quot; Schwarz is clever though. group gets ten positive beautiful, cook... punctual, I mentioned that.&quot; positive features! to do ten positive features is And then those people, like this person?&quot; that ten. much.&quot; illustration, you don't know this. ten positive features and then and then asked, lower?&quot; to list ten.&quot; these factors that change our we dislike - and this is, important part of the study of for instance, prejudice. from social psychology, entire lecture to this, views about other races that they don't know how to control So, to some extent, to some extent the particulars have been rejected. actually been so successful both psychology and in our that, Freud's been a victim of his We tend to underestimate the in everyday life because he's such an extent that it's there's any other way to think So, to some extent, success. questions about Freud and about Freud. I took a class once on how to student. from this class. pen. The second thing is never ask because presumably it is very &quot;Any questions?&quot; intimidating. &quot;What are your questions?&quot; Yes, in back. Student: [inaudible] Did Freud believe in Student: Bloom: Medication. question. &quot;Does--did Freud believe in Medication, of course, deal with certain disorders now, anxiety disorders. Freud made his start as a Freud studied the mind and the interested in the neural basis But the answer to your question &quot;no.&quot; sensitive to the brain basis of convinced that the method like depression and anxiety rather through the sort of talk Moreover, modern therapists, aren't psychoanalytically &quot;Look. good but what they do is they So, if you have panic attacks, make the panic attacks go away, actually not your real problem. don't get to the root of your So, the answer is both Freud would think that medications are treatment of mental disorders. Student: Professor Paul Bloom: &quot;What about research on &quot;Dreams&quot; is such a fun topic class to sleeping and dreams. I will answer the question I will also answer the question dreams, men or women, There's so many great questions Dreams from a Freudian There's been some evidence that have some relationship to what worrying about through the day. about symbolism and wish supported by the study of What are your other questions? to. Purple shirt. Student: Professor Paul Bloom: The Electra complex is the Freud developed--This is a but Freud developed the Oedipal I love Mommy, And then it's as if somebody &quot;Sigmund, there are also &quot;Oh, yeah.&quot; the penises and the penis envy very shortened version of the I think it's fair to say that of add-on to the main interest One more, please. Student: Professor Paul Bloom: the--there's not a fixation in an oral or anal stage, The claim that Freud would make that she lacks the penis plays a determining her allegiances in preferences and interests. that affects her just for a