These tanks are literally about And any money that doesn't But lucky for you, I'm And you can spend as much money as you want trying to protect this money we're going - So I just build whatever I want? But you only have 24 hours I need metal! Let's go! Alright, let's go boys! We're kicking this off All right, Blake, - I'm thinking the Junkyard. consisted of sourcing any metal I mean, this looks like they have metal, Definitely want that. Want that - Basically, you just want every car here. Can you give me any of your shipping Let's go out back! Yeah. This is good. Those would work well And is if buying out Blake did the same thing Well, everything I get from you today I would need within 12 hours? - I'm willing to pay double. It is very quick $15,000 And while we waited, We headed back to the money, and You just spent the last hour What did you come up with from destroying your money? Step one I want to put a shipping That is actually genius. Step two, giant water tanks. Do you think that's your best I think it's good, Step three these containers hay and wood. Step four is my best defense. A fortress of strategically angled Those bullets are going to hit If he actually builts I will be flabbergasted. - Let's get to work. Unfortunately for Blake, it wouldn't be for another 4 hours So he hired some construction I'm building a complete fortress. If we dropped the atomic bomb the money's not going anywhere. This is like It started to look like Blake might actually have a chance But even if the 500 grand survives are actually only the first Blake will have to defend. And believe me when I say this, For the rest of the night. Blake and his crew worked tirelessly but by the time the sun rose, Looking good. Looking good. That's the money. What is this car here for? This is like my inventory back Put your inventory Give me 10 minutes. I mean, you have 5 minutes. I don't think I Time is up. Stop stop, time is up. Drop it. Drop it right there. Go far away. Blake, time is officially ended. Seems pretty sturdy. Let's go fire some tanks. I've been up for about 25 hours now. Just building and building I mean, I'm looking at it now, But then I turn around and then I see these shells I really had no idea You think a shipping container is Hopefully three of them are. Oh, man. All right, it's time. All right. These five tanks aimed at your money Blake, fire the first shot. There's so much dust. Oh my Gosh! Look at his face. No way his money is safe. So only 19 more right? 19 more to go. Chandler Fire! This is way too much fun. Oh, my God. All the way back here. I can count eight holes Yeah, I see those holes. - No, shot his money is safe. Well, we might as well fire Let's just get this over with. Five shots. Four shots remain. Three shots remain. How much money do you have back Like half a... Two remain. And of course, Blake, The honor is mine. After this, we'll see Let's go. Oh, he's running. He's so fast. Is there any money? Wait, it's still there! Yes! Blake, it looked like We got a fresh stack. I know you're happy. We're moving on to phase two of four the biggest bomb we've ever blown up around this money. Are you going to drop it I'm glad you asked. Blake, what do you think is I don't know, dude Here, I'll answer for you. This is a hundred crates How are you even allowed to do that? I'm not sure it's legal. And while we prepared in YouTube history. Blake began to strategize Step one, we got to take everything All the wood has got to go. Step two water tanks. Step three. I want to move I just want to close them in Then step four is just walls, Explosion This is bigger than that safe that blew up? Yes. Every single The first Are we going to repeat it? No. And because at this point, Blake he trusted the construction workers to finish the job Yeah, I'm going to bed. Good night, And because he was so exhausted, Blake slept for way All right. About to find out how much progress Like half... Empty. That means nothing has happened And with only 6 hours remaining, his weak spots with spare parts, Looking good in here, looking real good. - Oh, Mr. Jimmy, If you listen closely, It's actually a school bus It's going to be plopped I assume it's not full of children. It's a short bus. That is just not what I asked. Is our brand new, feastable bar, - You want to try it, Blake? I'm using our snack products to distract them from telling them Dude, honestly, this is better - All the other ones. Anyone want a piece of chocolate? Did you get that? Hey Blake! 5 minutes till boom. I need 10 more minutes. You have four minutes. - Bro, you spraying them with water. I don't think they agree. They're literally They've got 90 seconds left. Blake, you're running out of time. Go! Go! Come on. Come on. Hey! It's five o'clock. Stop, stop, stop, Hey, hey, Blake. before I start taking your money. Let's go over to the bunker. You narrowly escaped death Let's see if you can do it again. Let the sun go down This is the biggest bomb This is the first bomb I've ever seen. Blake, are you nervous? Yeah, I'm sweating now. This is the detonation device. Here It's live? Yes, it's live. Two days of work, 17 for shipping containers Let's find out if you're going to be When you're ready, Blake. Three, two, one. Mom, I love you. Oh my gosh. That firestorm is massive. - Can we go put that out? I'm just wasting time. Run! Grab the fire extinguisher! Go, go, go, go. Let's go see if it burns! Oh, no. Oh, it's on fire over there. Oh, no. Be careful of this. Get off my money. The fire still going on up front. Blake is moving sandbags. Right there should be good. Please don't be ashes. Please don't be ashes. What do you see? What do you see? - I see green! Yeah, baby! I see a lot of dirt on it, Whoa. I knew it. Blake, you've officially completed Do you want to see Yes. All right, Blake, for your third we're going to be dropping on top of your money. Can you tell me how many cars? - A lot. A lot. This is going to be the hardest Not only will Blake have to deflect but he'll also have to protect his seeping through the cracks And after we drop the cars, Good luck. I want the crate with the money that shipping container Plop that on top of the money. Since Blake had been working so hard for the past few days, and saved most of his work And although he seemed confident, would soon prove itself than anything - Let's go Blake! Alright, this is day four. I'm feeling like a zombie. We're going to take the other We're going to pick that up in a formation to where the point is The cars will hit it, doom and fall, but We've got to get that shipping container It's starting to worry me a Over the next few hours. Blake did everything in his power to place the top shipping container even if that meant using wooden logs If this container does not go I'm probably losing a lot of money. We did it. Oh, that makes me feel really good. The water tank, like, right and then we're going Put it right here. That's going to block We got a plan, baby. But what Blake didn't know is Do you want to know what the twist - Yeah. See that flag over there? So as cars fall from the top, are going to be hurled Dude, I've been guessing millions I have, like, no more materials. Throughout the final hour, of his fortress. However, there was still a key His water truck, which he sent to refill in He has 90 seconds left. Alright, here we go. As always it comes down to the wire 60, 59, 58, 54, He's before he drop the car to try 30 seconds remain. You really think this is going Oh, yeah, baby. Three, two, one. Drop it. Just for that. I'm not showing mercy - You knew that was going to happen, dude. Oh man, moment of truth. Look how high up that bad boy is. This is only the first of five We're going to be dropping. On top of the five flaming death balls - You ready? Blake? Light it on fire! Now drop it. Oh, no. Oh my Gosh! Hold on. Everything is actually setting The burning car successfully However, the wood quickly engulfed in flames. Dude, what's going on? What is happening? What in there is on fire, Blake? I don't. I don't even know what to say. What was on top All right, there is wood there. Let's not jinx it. Knock on wood. You put wood? And you knew we are I needed to use them, dude. Luckily, Blake did surround his money so there's still a very high And since we're about to go obviously now I'm going to tell you Their debit card is meant to help you grow your money, which I'll tell you ACORNS just launched They made with Dwayne Johnson Cool thing about this you make a purchase, it automatically rounds up to the nearest dollar Believe it or not, your money death balls, but by things like Which is why your money, you'll be hard at work in two of the highest APYs Chandler, what does APYs mean? It means you can fight back against by growing your money, Blake, how are you doing, buddy? I'm remembering what it feels like Oh, it's a direct hit. Right on the money. Just from signing to start growing your money. So go to acorns.com/mrbeast To learn about how you can Light it on fire! Drop it. The rain of fire Oh, oh. And as the flames only grew bigger, bleak for Blake's money. No, no, no. That fire was raging for over It's either all going to be there That right there is a bunch He accidentally created He thought he was making a fortress, but he was actually I mean, there's still a chance Blake, moment of truth. protect your money Oh, my God. Oh, no. Oh. Oh, Those are ruined. Wait, hold up. The money is It's a thousand degrees in there. Let's be real with ourselves, Blake. It's gone. As you saw, Another loss. Yeah. This one hurts What hurts the most is that I worked Yeah, it sucks. The challenge is officially over. And before you go, Blake, You have two choices. You can either walk away with and final chance - All right, I'm coming back. I'm coming back. Okay. Blake's last chance to win a video is going to be right here, I don't think me, the audience. Everyone can bear to see I'll see you then.