FORTNITE! No. I'm not playing fortnite today. We're playing a version of fortnite because remember those IO games like slither.io, agar.io they were crazy popular! ...A while ago Well now they've made a game called Zombs Royal.IO, which is basically fortnite- .IO ...Is that confusing? Basically they've made fortnite into an IO game, which sounds insane I have played zero games, zero kills zero anything, and apparently it's pretty good So we're just gonna hop into some games see what this is like, completely free exactly the same as the normal fortnight. You've got daily challenges as well, Cosmetics No way, they actually have emotes and stuff too? that's cool. Oh it has mythic as well Mythic is a rarity so red is higher than legendary. Which is higher, that doesn't exist in normal fortnite That's cool, Alright lets do DanTDM Play, and see what goes down... So this is exactly or it's like, you get punching animations as well, which is pretty cool I think the plane happens as well. Yep. Haha! Oh this is cool. I like this! ..Press M for map. No way, this is awesome! Do we have building though? I don't think we have building. There's no resources anywhere. We've got ammo, 76 people! I'm gonna drop down here See what happens... Looks like there's some guns on the ground actually. Hold E to free fall. Let's go, let's go! I'm going to this crate. I don't know what happens, but I'm getting this crate. Break it open! Pick it up! I've got a pistol! Everyone watch out, I've got a pistol! So we've got buildings, We can see through the windows, oh, there's a guy here! I'm gonna chase you down I'm gonna get you buddy! I'm gonna get you! Yes! Oh my goodness. He's not even moving. He's not even moving. He's just gonna die. There we go! Haha! So there's chests and stuff as well? It's interactive. This we got ourselves. Oh, it's a shield potion, there are shields as well. NO! AHH I have no ammo. Oh Jeez. I don't think he had any ammo either. Oh- no, this guy is gonna beat me down isn't he? Stay out! Stay out right now. What are you doing?!? No, Stop this. Ahaha! Oh, that was stupid! That was so dumb! Right, let's play again, Ahaha! Where should we go this time? There's actually like a whaling would section up here? There's loads of random little bits, where you can just get snipers, and shotguns. Looks like you can get every kind of gun, but there's some of them just laying around which is pretty crazy. I'm gonna wait a little bit cuz I'm brand new. I'm going this way, let's go There's gas as well? they seem to call it gas which I think is a PUB-G thing, can I land on this there we go. Oh geez no that was bad. that was bad Let's grab the ammo. We're gonna need a gun though, is there any gun in here? Please.Grab a gun, grab a gun. Oh an AR! Perfect! and what is this? A hunting rifle. That's what I'm talking about! Right. Let's head up this way. I believe there are some houses. Oh, man Let's see if we can see through the window. Yeah, there's someone in there. Hey! Haha! You could actually shoot through here! This is crazy. I'm gonna reload. Oh, no there's someone with a- What did they have?! Are you kidding me?! Got him! Got him! Got him! Got him! I need some bandages. Got a med kit, grenades?! They have impulse grenades as well?! This is insane! actually insane! Oh no, no, no, he's gonna get me. He's gonna get me. Oh he's running away He's actually running away. He's gone. I don't even know where he went. I need some bandages desperately Let's get some bandages up in here. Let's grab. Oh my gos. It's so hard to change weapons and stuff what if we grabbed this and Then throw it like this way That's cool, I like that a lot Yes that she works oh oh he's got no, I'm dead I'm dead he's got a shotgun. He's actually got a shotgun oh No he got me the shotgun is really good I came 16th. Oh, I think too bad ok This could have been a bad idea this could have been a very bad idea actually gonna freefall grab this Drinking it Then grab the ammo. Oh my goodness quick. Go go go go. I need something good. I need something good. I've got another potion That's sweet, so I'm at a hundred health might have no guns I think I can see a gun on the top left yeah, that definitely has a gun up there come on Give me a gun. That's what I'm talking about. Thank you, sir. I grabbed this How'd you get in here? Oh Jesus a guy right there? I'm stuck I'm stuck I can't actually move I'm lagging I'm lagging no this was such a good game This was a bad idea, Oh actually there's a gun right here. I need it. I need it. I need it yes I don't know what I'm doing. I have no ammo no No, I need ammo quick This is not the right hammer that I need I've got a big crate though and that has got ammo in either What is happening? Oh? Oh, oh, no. Oh no. Oh, no luckily. He has a sniper, and he's getting shot by someone else So I'm gonna drink my potion, and I'm gonna be fine It's really easy to waste ammo on this no stay away from me stay away from me, buddy Yes, got him. All right guys. AR as well. This is perfect. Nothing in here nothing in here. I saw a dude up here There he is there is oh my goodness. What is that? Hey? I just picked up a burst AR this might be better Is this so risky because you literally could come across anyone at any points? Open the door grab that hunting rifle. I'm gonna take from here jeez this is intense There's a chest in there as well quick get in get in get in what's inside we have shield potions I'll take it and an SMG. I will take that too shield up real quick I just saw some bullets fly past my head So I'm gonna see what's going on down here because that means someone's damaged exactly the same in normal fortnight. Yes See I mean see what I mean. Oh my goodness. I've got myself a rocket launcher guys. This is gonna. Be sweet and a gold AR Right I need to be careful so careful. Oh He's locked himself in you goods oh Yes, according to that's what I'm talking about. I'm gonna grab these bandages. Just in case I need them We're doing well. How I forgot that there's the gas as well or the storm. That's open There's nothing in here. We could just chill until we see someone though cuz we've got three kills 16 people left, that's not bad. We also have Rockets which I'm kind of really excited to try out there is here is He didn't even notice me he had no idea he had no idea Yes, I doesn't kill. That's not so good. We are doing so well right now but I know there's someone moving in ah Oh, there's only eight people left guys And I feel like there's gonna be some people who are a little bit better than me at this game Where's the so? I'm gonna come in next oh, it's on me. It's actually on me. Okay. This is good. We've got 95 plus 50 health I said it that way because I can't work out the maths Arthur Circle is so small six five people left oh Four kills. I'm just gonna chill here So the only difference is you can't build which I guess from top down Would be a little bit weird, right? So you could just block yourself in and then you're I don't know you can't go over the top I guess there's a guy. There's a guy. There's a guy. Do I go for him actually feel like the Rockets aren't too Good because there's no building. There's only four people left I'm not gonna panic. It's gonna be absolutely fine. I'm sure there's people I'm just gonna wait until they kill each other and then snipe for the last win That's what I'm gonna. Do the last kill make a win get a victory royale on my first is this my fourth game I'm pretty sure it is might even be less. Where's the gas now over here. There's like no buildings that way I'm gonna come in with the storm and see what happens I'm just a lonely little blob In a lonely little world well with three other people I guess only three other people need to be taken down and we've won this with a gold Scar as well Let's go. How fast is the storm? How fast is it? It's not actually okay? It's pretty fast, but we can outrun it. It's okay. It's not right there I got a shot on me what? This dude. He's definitely played before I can I just have to go for it come on come on come on come on no He's getting big shots big shots. That's all by me as well. No on undead. I'm so dead he sniping me He's actually sniping me this dude is insane. He's so good Dead no second You know what I'm pretty proud of that. I'm pretty proud of that second place yes How much health did you have though? It doesn't tell me Aggie King what a legend actually wait? There's no people left how about second It's okay the second ivory I'll take it I don't mind this game is cool guys. I like it It's difficult because you can't really see the screen actually with the sniper The screen kind of zooms out a little bit, so you have some more range kind of like if you had a scope So it's actually it's actually pretty good to use a sniper Which is what he was doing I feel fought and I was fast paced sometimes. This is another level I'm gonna wait until I get to the top might even go in the woods a little bit and see what's here Wow, this game is insane 87 people in this game That's actually quite a lot isn't it there's people dying before we even hit the ground. Let's go oh no oh no I've messed this up. I miss this up big star. I'm gonna get killed in post grenade That's not gonna help at all ammo crate isn't gonna help either gun gun Oh Big chest, that's what I'm talking about give me this big old shield. There's a shotgun over there as well I think that's a pump pump shotgun. It is I'll take that got some more ammo. There's a guy up there I've got an SMG too. I want to try out this shotgun real quick Look at it. It's insane. I don't think you had anything I eliminated damn Good name, but you're out of here buddy. I'm sorry common. AR. Yes, I will take you Perfect so I've got an AR and a shotgun, which is good someone spectating me as well This game is really really good. We got what we got a little crate and a tactical shotgun I'll try it they seem the same gas is moving in okay. That's fine. We're near the edge. I think We can just hover near the edge like you're doing for tonight If you want to get those kills, and that's what I'm gonna do and there's grenades here as well. I'm gonna take oh Jeez, I'm gonna take this grenade and see if I can make it work. There's a lot of places to hide here This is good. It comes the blue. Oh, we're still in the ring. We're still just chilling in here. This is good Wait a second let's grab the SMG burst because that is blue got a good load out so far guys You need to be careful that no one's inside these buildings too because if you pop in pop your head in and they see you First because they can see the outside you can't see the inside so you need to be so careful Oh gee, is there someone there. Okay, right should we try out grenades? I think we should there goes one oh? It's cold has he gone. No you shouldn't be in the house cuz that's where the gas is Wait is he in this bush I? Thought he was in that Bush. That'd have been amazing ten people left. It could be in this bush. Nope where did he go? We're still inside the ring eight people to go 150 health not so bad, or there's someone there's someone here is throw that got him Oh? Oh my guess that was such an insane shot he didn't even touch us oh my word he had a good Scar it is a scar. I'm taking that thank you sir five people left. We're still inside the gas I think we should stay here because this is a good place lots of cover because you can't build your own Oh, we're inside again look at this on the edge of the trees boulders bushes There's only four people to go we could do the sneak attack with the grenades. There is oh? So he has a sniper which is an advantage because he can see further than I can Which is worrying three people left three people left. Oh jeez where did he go? Where did he go I? Can't see where he went. I'm inside the bush The gas is moving in though oh, man One person left there's only one person left including me. Where did that just happen though. It wasn't in the house there It is there it is there it is right. There. You good bro. No I kicked out I kicked out who geez I'm still alive. I'm still alive somehow. I don't know how I did this, but I'm still alive I Can't believe it it says I have a victory, but that was a complete lie I clicked out of my window oh man No, Zoey is telling me. I got one place higher than I did. I'm so upset. Can you see on my little blobs face? So upset what is happening here The biggest tree I've ever seen I don't know what I'm doing, but I'm going down here I have no idea if that's a good good thing got myself an AR though so I can pick off some little uns like this dude's Got you, buddy. I need ammo desperately I got a Shotgun I like where this in a shotgun what is this? I have no idea, but I got the kill and I've stolen that guy's kill as well. What is this? Oh? It's a hunting rifle. Okay, right hunting rifle. That's why they weren't attacking me because they couldn't even see me as someone there Let's see if we can Another hunting rifle this isn't goods. There's someone in this building a hundred percent, okay? I've got myself a blue submachine gun which is good. I'm gonna use the sniper. Just to see where everyone is and Then I kind of need some shields that would be great well look there. He is that? What just happened dude, I got him as well. Oh my word shuriken z' You can get shuriken. Z' as well. I'm taking it. I'm taking the shuriken. I'm also needing to bandage up real quick How did these work I kind of want to use these I've got five kills. I'm popping off. Oh, man. There's a scar I need this scar. Oh a big box. Let's see we can grab this real quick. What's inside oh? That was it that was terrible some little boxes grenades grenades actually pretty cool shuriken zai can grab at you Maybe cook my back on. I don't really want to get rid of anything else I want to grab this because it's purple, but the rest is pretty good. I need healing oh jesus a guy There's a guy there's a guy how he proper hit me sure Ken's Jerkins go I kicked out again. Oh my goodness. I just got a shot square in the face. I'm dead. I'm dead. I'm dead. I'm dead oh Yeah, I'm dead I keep clicking out of the game. This is bad I had five kills as well man's trying to be ninja guys. I have 50 health double pistols shuriken 'he's one kill and there's only three other players left? This can only end one way either me winning or dying instantly. You know what the shuriken bush strategy Could actually be really good Because the Shogun's won't poke out the bush. There's only two people left Can I do this? Yes, got him. Okay, right? There's only one other person How am I gonna do this how am I gonna do this so what about the shuriken guys it's all about the chickens Yes They win Yes, oh, I didn't think I'd be able to do that yeah There you go smashed it absolutely smashed it This game is fun guys if you wanna go check it out. It is zombies royale I Oh the link will be in the description below. It's a lot of fun. I promise you It's free all that good stuff And I highly recommend you check it out if you're a fan of battle royale games. You will love this it's cool It's different and fun so guys I hope you enjoyed this video if you did Please leave a like let me greatly appreciate it and it's time to be the first, but you see by me Please do consider subscribing to join team TDM today or for daily videos apart from that guys Thank you again so much for watching have an amazing day, and I'll see you guys next time Goooooooodbye!