Welcome to my channel! I'm starting to build a shelter ready for the approaching winter. I feel that this forest has abundant food sources There is also a small waterfall up there This is a good place for me to take shelter this winter First I need to make a fire to cook some drinking water I still have some herbs left over from before Now I can use it to make drinking water It's time to start gathering building materials Bamboo and palm leaves are the two main materials needed to make a shelter Weather Today is so hot! I need to collect some more palm leaves it is a very good roofing material to make a shelter Bamboo tie is an indispensable material for me to complete this job. I'll make a shelter right above the stream. Hopefully a big flood won't happen and wash everything away! I use short pieces of bamboo. Arrange it together to form a flat surface. That's where I will sleep and cook in the future. I find it spacious enough for Lucky and me. Now I need to continue with the roof of the shelter. Night has begun to fall! I should rest and continue working the next day. Luckily I still had some of the pork smoked from earlier, enough to feed Lucky and me while we built this shelter. I finally finished the roof for the shelter! now i need to finish some of the surrounding walls i just need some low walls in the bedroom area this place will be used by me as a cooking area then add a layer of soil in the middle to insulate the floor This is the shell of a stone snail! Indeed! In front there was a stone snail. The color of the shell was almost the same as the color of the cliff so I had to pay close attention to see it. Now I want to find more food upstream of the stream which is my goal Stone snails appear quite a lot here! This wild fruit can be eaten and has a mild sweet taste. I will enjoy this fruit after every meal. There are some big bamboo shoots up there! Here there is a herb plant! I can use it to make drinking water to prevent and treat some stomach diseases This is all I harvested today I think a rain is coming So I need to complete a shelter front to avoid the rain The rain has started! Luckily I have almost finished covering the shelter. The rain has stopped in preparation for the next round of rain. I need to take the opportunity to complete the wall surrounding the cooking area. My shelter is almost complete. Accomplished! I will complete other tasks in the following days. We invite you to dine with us! Today I need to make a bamboo floor right here for convenience in daily life. When the bamboo floor is completed, my living space will become more spacious. Now I need to provide water right here. I use some bamboo trees to make water troughs. Just a little carelessness would have cost me . These leaves will help my wound stop bleeding quickly. Fortunately, this is only a small wound. From now on, I must be very careful with that sharp knife. Water has been supplied to the shelter, making my life much easier and more convenient. Luckily I still have a few banana flowers, some smoked meat and a few snails I caught in the stream, enough for Lucky. and I eat tonight. We invite you to dine with us! I think I should go set some traps This is a good place to set chicken traps I always keep my old traps so I don't have to waste time making them These are broadleaf figs (Ficus auriculata Lour) It has a laxative effect and stabilizes the digestive system. In addition, it also has many other good uses for the body. There are signs of squirrels here! Maybe it's around here somewhere. This is the favorite fruit of squirrels. When winter comes, squirrels will gather to eat these fruits. Squirrels are very agile! It's hard to catch it with primitive tools like this. This is the first result of today's hunt This is a species of wild tea. It is very good in supporting and treating stomach ulcers. I need some of this stem to make my daily drink. What a difficult day! I still have a squirrel though. That's a huge encouragement to me! There are so many leeches in this forest I have to check Lucky's body often. This tea has a slightly astringent taste, is fragrant and benign. I think anyone can easily enjoy it. My dinner is ready! We invite you to dine with us! Although the grilled squirrel dish is a bit chewy, it's really delicious! The weather is starting to get cold now! I should complete my bedroom to reduce the cold when night falls. A bamboo window has been completed! I think it's pretty good! I think my sleeping place is fine like this! Now it's time to check yesterday's traps Oh... something made this trap work. There's a wild chicken trapped! Really amazing! There might be other chickens that will get stuck next! There's a beehive over there! Perhaps it just rested a bit there and will continue its journey to find shelter through the winter. I need some of this wild rope to weave bamboo curtains for the bedroom. With this chicken, I will make grilled chicken. I think Lucky also agrees with this. A completed bamboo curtain! What do you think of it ? In addition to grilled fish, grilled chicken is also Lucky's favorite dish. Please enjoy with us! Today is a beautiful sunny day! I should go explore the upper reaches of this stream and look for some food. This place is a wild taro forest! I need some of these taro roots to make for dinner. There's a frog! These stone frogs have an ugly appearance, but on the contrary, their meat is very delicious. It's a small venomous snake! With this hot weather, the Bee must constantly provide water for its nest. There are some yellow camellias up there! This natural tea is constantly sought after because it has many great benefits for the body. It can help treat a number of diseases such as cancer, diabetes, blood pressure and detoxification. That's why it is always popular. sold at high prices in the market. For me, it's just a drink that helps me relax and detoxify my body. There's gac fruit here. Unfortunately, it's still small and green . I'll come back when I can harvest it . My dinner is ready! Please enjoy with us! This is yellow flower tea. It smells so good! After enjoying it, it gives me a feeling of relaxation. I think today I need to weave some baskets. Use it to store food for Lucky and me . These are all the bamboo baskets I need. I think it's time to check the chicken trap. If we're lucky, we'll have fresh food today Oh...there's a chicken caught in the trap! This forest has quite a lot of chickens. I often hear its crowing. Tonight there will be boiled chicken for Lucky and me which is great! Please enjoy with us! Boiled chicken is still quite hot! Lucky needs to wait a bit to enjoy it. It's delicious! Today I plan to make some mouse traps. This is a manual method of making traps that has been maintained since ancient times but it is very effective. Its working mechanism is quite simple when an animal passes by and touches this small bamboo stick Boom...! and the bamboo stick on top will hold tightly. This type of trap can not only trap mice but also trap snakes, squirrels and other small animals. The spot I chose was these tree trunks. Squirrels or mice will move up and down to eat the fruit. What a nice spot to set an effective trap. Hopefully it will bring me some results tomorrow! Well...this chicken trap worked but it didn't yield any results Creating and setting the trap took me all day Now I only have a few wild taro left to eat Luckily there's still some left Smoked meat for Lucky I invite you to have dinner with us! Today I need to check the mouse trap Oh...looks like there's something there What a lucky day! This is a squirrel! The traps are awesome! It gave me delicious grilled meat. Please enjoy with us! It's delicious! The weather is quite nice today! I should look for something in the forest Oh... Here there are chestnuts Chestnuts have many uses for human health Its main ingredient is starch Contains various nutrients It has a mild sweet taste and so delicious! It's squirrels' favorite food! There are yam vines there! I'm going to dig it up to get some tubers. The yam is deep underground. To get it I have to work harder . The roots are starting to appear! Yams contain up to 63% starch , which is a good food source to supplement starch for the body. Now I should try boiled chestnuts first, maybe it will be very smooth and delicious! It tastes like boiled yam which is really a good source of nutrition for my body right now. The heavy rain last night caused this bamboo water trough to be broken. There was so much trash and rocks that it was clogged . This is the yam I made. Collected the day before it was a source of carbs for me. I think it's time to find some food. In front is a big stream, it's so beautiful! I think I should try fishing here First of all I need a bamboo fishing rod I need some earthworms for bait I still have the fishing line and hook from before The current here is quite strong I should find a fishing spot other. This is my first fish today! Just a few fish like this is enough for me and Lucky to comfortably enjoy. I think this amount of fish is enough for me and Lucky! Now I need to quickly return to the shelter before nightfall. I'll grill all the fish I have. That's also my only way of preserving it right now. My dinner is finally done! Please enjoy with me!