Today, I am super excited. Why? Because I get to show you the amazing planet As far as the planets go, this is probably And I think by the end of this video, you probe, we have some astonishing imagery of I'm Alex McColgan, and you're watching give you insights into some of the spectacular overview of almost everything you could want Saturn is big. It's is a gas giant with an average radius the second biggest planet in our Solar System. I say average radius, because its equatorial km at the equator, compared to 54,000 km from With an average density of 0.687 g/cm3, it Earth, however, because its volume is so large, This low density makes Saturn the lightest is the only planet of the Solar System that So, if you had a bath toy of Saturn that shares This is because Saturn is 96% hydrogen, which However, average density doesn't tell the Saturn is classified as a gas giant because doesn't have a rocky surface under the cloud However, Saturn is most certainly not gaseous for that. You see, the further into Saturn you go, the Eventually, the pressure becomes so great and starts acting like a liquid. So, in a way, under Saturn's atmosphere Even further below that, it may be that there is so great that hydrogen starts acting like and rocky core. We do know that Saturn has a very hot interior, This is twice as hot as the surface of the If we look at Saturn through the infrared, shades of electric blue, sapphire and mint On the night side, where there is no sunlight, up. This light is generated deep within Saturn, into space. In fact, this infrared image reveals that space than it receives from the Sun. You may not have noticed, but Saturn's atmosphere If you increase the contrast when you look Saturn's bands are much less chaotic than the equator. And ever wondered why Saturn is yellow? It's believed to be due to ammonia crystals But while the atmosphere of Saturn may appear The winds on Saturn are the second fastest They can be a blistering 1,800 km/h. Visible storms are also known to appear on a year in 2011. It had been the pattern that every 30 or so a "Great White spot" which is a unique once every Saturnian year. However, we have spotted a few of them over If it does follow a 30-year pattern though, Sadly, even if it does happen, we will only Telescope as the Cassini mission ended a few Saturn has plenty of smaller storms too, where Cassini has even detected the sound of the But while this might sound weak, the sound produced by the lightning converted to audio. In reality, lightning on Saturn is about 1,000 Still talking about storms, but moving on pole has giant, permanent storms. NASA reported in November 2006 that Cassini to the south pole that had a clearly defined Eyewall clouds had not previously been seen The ring is similar to the eyewall of a hurricane, The clear air in the centre is warm, like locked to the pole, whereas a hurricane on The north pole is even more unusual. There is a persistent hexagon shaped storm atmosphere. The straight sides of the polar hexagon are than the diameter of the Earth. Why does this happen and to such a large scale? We don't really know. However, the speed differential and viscosity are likely to be within certain margins to Lab tests have since been done where polygons at different speeds at its centre and near theory at the moment. Interestingly, towards the centre of this While not anywhere near as strong as Jupiter's, generated in the metallic hydrogen layer of It is large, extending far beyond the planet, from the Sun. And much like other planets with magnetospheres, Their location and brightness strongly depend The aurora become brighter and move closer increases. The same process produces auroras on both solar wind stream along magnetic field lines There, they collide with atoms and molecules, The atoms and molecules release this added and wavelengths. On Earth, this light is mostly from oxygen On Saturn, it is from hydrogen. The rings for me are one of the highlights Saturn has a prominent ring system that consists While they are mainly named after letters a little confusing, so bear with me. The first 5 rings, from the closest to the faint, C ring, B Ring - which is the brightest is the last of the large bright rings, and The rings extend from 66,000 km to 140,000 of water ice, with small amounts of dust and If we look in the ultraviolet at a section more ice toward the outer part of the rings, The red in the image indicates sparser ringlets particles than in the icier turquoise ringlets. If we look at a picture representing radio individual particles that make up the rings. Color is used to represent information about effects of three radio signals. Shades of red show regions where particles Green shows particles smaller than 5 centimeters, in size. Overall, it's thought that particles in are microscopic in size. The main rings are thought to be as little We can see that the rings are not perfectly During the planet's equinox, the rings can Look at the top of this video, where the B Zooming in on this structure reveals ridges given away by their shadows. Zooming out again, we can see the scale of Oscillations happen all the time in the rings moon, or even just naturally. The differences, which can be seen all in So, I've talked about the D, C, B, and A The F ring can also get quite wonky, and has moon. It's called Prometheus, and it leaves a Once during its 14.7-hour orbit of Saturn, the point in its elliptical path, where it the F ring. At this point, Prometheus' gravity is just out of the core region of the F ring. And that's what causes these ripples. So, what comes after the F ring? Well, this is where it gets confusing. First, you have the Janus or Epimetheus Ring, I find this picture amazing, as these rings Sun. This bright blue ring is the E ring, you can top of the picture. The G ring is the next distinct ring, and Epimetheus ring at the top below it. And can you see us? We're all in this picture too. Here's Earth and the Moon! The very last ring is the newly discovered extends far beyond Saturn. It's so large, that if it were visible from size of two full moons across. It probably originated from Saturn's 200km past. Phoebe orbits just outside of the ring, and outward. On the other hand, it is also suspected that falling onto Iapetus, Saturn's outermost It has a bizarre combination of colours because because Iapetus is tidally locked, only one backside of it exposed to the Phoebe Ring, So now you know about the rings. I think you'll agree that they are so interesting Theories abound as to why they are there, We know that some of the moons are responsible know that some of the material there is responsible And talking of moons, Saturn has least 82 They come in all shapes and sizes, and most is even bigger than Mercury, is the only moon around it, which I have done a separate video I'm also going to throw in here that Saturn time. We call it Mimas. Generally though, most of Saturn's moons Lastly, I'm going to talk about Saturn's Saturn orbits about 9 to 10 times further year on Saturn takes 30 Earth years. Funnily enough, a day on Saturn is different At the equator or at the poles, a day lasts Everywhere else on Saturn, a day lasts 10 The issue is, because Saturn isn't solid, all over. I just want to leave you with this. Few sights in the solar system are more strikingly by the shadows of its rings. The gas planet's subtle northward gradation that scientists don't fully understand. Current thinking says that it may be related in the winter hemisphere. And despite all that we have learned from Thanks for watching! Did you enjoy this video? Then please like and share it, your support make videos like these in the future. A big thank you as well to my Patrons and If you want to this way support too, check And finally, if you want to learn more about out this playlist here. All the best and see you next time.