We did it -- we got our hands on a lost Pokemon Not only are you gonna see it in action, we're Maybe leak is the wrong word... we actually technically it's more like we're dumping it, But first we're gonna cover the full history Pink, Pokemon Picross, Pinball DS, enhanced more. We'll cover 'em all in chronological we wanna save the best for last. A couple -- first, not all these games were technically but &quot;cancelled&quot; is a close-enough blanket it to store shelves. Some were more like failed finished but got locked in a vault. Also, DS because they were just tech demos created and DS, and were never meant to become full 64 either, since it's supposed existence seems from fans who thought a full Pokemon RPG was game was just Pokemon Stadium. Okay, with all that said and the intro out Pokemon Pink, which it appears Game Freak in 1998. In other words, Pokemon Pink and like Red &amp; Green. Fans had no idea about Pink and Yellow leaked on 4chan. There were all unused Pokemon sprites, and audio files showing say its name. All those voices got cut, probably game, the only Pokemon who talks is Pikachu. to a non-existent Pokemon game -- like a header Notice how Pink comes first. There's another For comparison, here's what the equivalent identical, except it says Red &amp; Green packages. &amp; Green are both built from the same source determines which game you can play on a Game the games boots up as Pokemon Red. So all paired release, and in that regard, you could successors. We talked to TheCuttingRoomFloor admin Hugette said they experimented with changing the package unlock a lost Pokemon game. Unfortunately it was worth a shot. We can't say for certain, very early in development, since these two existence. The Pokemon Company's only mentioned to that in a minute, but without more info say how Pink would've been different from the sprites would've had a pink palette. Some on the game's box art, considering its prominent were the only two Pokemon fighters in the those two were chosen for Smash because at Pokemon games. But the most popular theory's the Japanese version of the Game Boy Camera which got removed from later international 1996 Pocket Monster manga that predates the fans speculate that while Pokemon Yellow uses Team Rocket, Nurse Joy, and Officer Jenny, And also maybe cater more to female fans, at the time. After the leak dropped on 4chan, hack to bring that vision to life with a female never finished. The Pokemon Company never instance where the words &quot;Pokemon Pink&quot; crossed In a Japanese interview from 2000 we had translated, explain Gen 1 and 2's development. We'll make below if you wanna read it. Regarding Pink then after that we made Blue. Later we made games were called Pink or Purple. But if we making extensions of the originals.&quot; In context, Gold &amp; Silver, so they could keep using colors, 2's more impressive than Gen 1. But Ishihara's sentiment that Pink or Purple of the originals'' might also apply to why four versions of Gen 1, and a fifth version but also for Game Freak -- they needed to ended up releasing two years behind schedule, Maybe we're reading too much into that quote, The most pessimistic view was voiced by Hugette anything at all, not even an idea. A lot of so maybe Game Freak's programmers just deleted Pink &amp; Yellow without much thought. If that's spent the last few years theorizing about laughing his ass off at our expense. Hopefully binder about Pink on Japanese TV, like he sprites. Next up is a game we can say with game leaked online two decades after it was even the credits. Pokemon Picross was a Game Boy Color puzzler which showed off screenshots and some original Corporation, the same guys who made the Pokemon games that didn't get cancelled -- more on a few years earlier, and it sold well enough up to the present day. They've crossed over in Picross NP Vol. 1, a Super Famicom game service, but there was also a full Pokemon gameplay is kinda hard to explain and we don't like Minesweeper, or Sudoku with less math. Picross comes with a tutorial taught by Professor it upon themselves to release an English fan piece soundtrack -- that's what you're hearing Misty, Team Rocket, locations all around Kanto, get Bulbasaur, Charmander, and Squirtle as to green, red, and blue. Interestingly, you Pokemon, which changes the border to pink it's a good little puzzle game, and pretty Pokemon Picross game for 3DS that got pretty so nowadays it's impossible to download on in 2023. You can catch both games online though, that we condone piracy, of course... And now for something completely different Chinese editions of FireRed &amp; LeafGreen. We entire history of Nintendo in China -- but instituted a ban on consoles entering China, were melting the brains of Chinese youth. sidestep some of those laws by partnering called iQue. iQue went on to produce Chinese Game Boy Advance, and localized some of their was hacked and a lot of their records leaked presentation that iQue presented to Nintendo develop Chinese versions of FireRed &amp; LeafGreen upgrades. For the most part, these still would've around the world -- collecting Pokemon, going but with new features added, mostly focused games would identify the player's location real-life weather outside. Previous Pokemon on real time, but this would've taken it to around Kanto would've changed depending on spelled out in the document, but it sounds that respect, with players needing to go here would also be expanded, with only 30 Pokemon in Pokemon Center PCs, sorta like an early On the second floor of these expanded Pokemon And not just the kinda online battles later switch to a computer screen, and you'd use Pokemon Colosseum's code, so all Pokemon and be online distributions of special Pokemon games till the DS era. But instead of Nintendo to completely new parts of Kanto to hunt for catching Mew and Deoxys that were already iQue said new areas would also get added gradually ports would've been far ahead of their time, years in the future. Or in some cases, still later. There also would've been some other and of course, the text would've all been get made? The leak doesn't say. But if we hand over the keys to their precious IP. We wanna just guess. One of the guys who makes he went looking for former iQue developers concrete answer on this project specifically -- but they did share a story that shed light and the Pokemon Company around that time. Pokemon Company president Ishihara, and some The execs ultimately decided too many Chinese just wasn't worth investing in the Chinese Nintendo games after that, then lots more canned, including a fully-finished localization versions of FireRed &amp; LeafGreen never got anyway, and even less have access to Chinese them anyway. Pokemon Pinball for Game Boy in the franchise's, and its GBA sequel got But after that, the series just kinda died demo for a third entry on Nintendo DS was they were the best graphics they'd ever seen finished. Fans first became aware of the project spreadsheet saying Pokemon Pinball DS was Diamond &amp; Pearl. And that it was being developed Pinball Land and Metroid Prime Pinball. No out the devs to learn more about it. Fuse shut down almost 15 years ago, but we Matthew Nightingale, one of nine guys who would've been more of an adventure game, similar the quality of their Metroid adaptation that visit Fuse's office in England, and fund the stages. To help you visualize Matthew's description three stages. The first stage was Sinnoh's table represented the amount of time it took appear on the table as you traveled down the a tree. You hit Pokemon with the pinball to it. If you didn't click quick enough, it runs gates open and you shoot the pinball inside Catching Pokemon's simpler and faster than the countryside and city, you've collected to progress to the demo's final table where you've caught, you need to decide which ones like Water vs Fire. The Gym stage is double-ended a Pokemon between them, and on the other end You power up your attacks by hitting the ball charged up enough power, you fire your ball table only has one ball, so if you lose control charge his own attacks. Pokemon Pinball DS that played out just like Gym battles. Matthew mechanic, and probably would've come bundled slot. Nintendo and The Pokemon Company were reason they never greenlit the project for the playable demo. Matthew wasn't invited it came down to contract disputes. Pokemon the core series does, so there wouldn't have involved. Fuse ended up going bankrupt in go to market. No one else from Fuse, including details with us. As for where that demo is We asked Matthew if it was lost to time after -- Nintendo paid for its development, so they of early Pokemon prototypes are becoming more it'll find its way online and we'll all get fans were expecting after Black &amp; White, but 2 instead. It was long dismissed as baseless fan expectations, year with evidence to the contrary. You can but we'll summarize the highlights here and Dream we had translated, series director Junichi we were thinking about making another version, sequel, or making two different versions... we weren't thinking about making a '2' at Kyurem would play an important role alongside old filings, and here's receipts showing that they registered URLs for Pokemon Black, White, all three colors -- along with a few others, actually existed at one point, though just of Gray hiding in Black &amp; White's internal Dragon Stones -- the Dark Stone which is Zekrom for Reshiram. The data also contains a third key item called presumably once meant for Kyurem -- but it data also contains a table that reveals how Game Freak was planning they will have in Game Freak didn't know how many Forms Kyurem up with another quote from Masuda, where he fuse with other Pokemon in the next game, Zekrom and Reshiram specifically. At the time open to the idea of Kyurem fusing with other after Black &amp; White, so fans expected Gray and not the old, basically retired DS. But says that was never gonna happen. At the time, consumers, but not even 20 million 3DSes. on older hardware because of the larger install releasing two games instead of one. So they to see if he agreed. Recounting that meeting, Masuda said: &quot;Every left with a feeling that there are still things &amp; White was wrapping up, we were just starting the two versions more distinct. There was Black &amp; White's release, so we gave up on to. So at that point, we decided to make two they'd be sequels yet... When we talked to on DS instead of 3DS, I want some kind of we came up with the idea of numbering for plot set 2 years after Black &amp; White, and we wanted to add the number 2 into the titles nail in the coffin for Pokemon Gray. And by made them about $100 million more in revenue. from Black 2 White 2 -- besides packing everything Takao Unno clued us in in Famitsu. He said third version came down to three core pillars: taking place two years in the future. In other words, Gray probably would've starred taken place the same year as the originals. There also wouldn't have been a continuation wanted to leave N's whereabouts a mystery to who knows where. But fans loved the character bring him back in the sequels. So for Black from Ghetsis, help you obtain the Legendary But initially, the plan was to never see him up to fan imagination. But actually, N superfans seen the last of him just yet. When Black fans might eventually see one more pair of in the future, we feel that we want to continue, really satisfied with how Black 2 &amp; White was more than ten years ago, so maybe Game maybe that's what we'll get instead of Gen And now for Pokemon Z. We found Game Freak's where the interviewer asks why Z never happened. a third version, we always want to do things &amp; White people thought Pokemon Gray was going 2... People thought Pokemon Z would come [after the 20th anniversary, we decided to deliver words, instead of Z, they released a brand in 2016. But to us that sounds like corporate consistent with series history. In all three followed up with a return to the same region so Z should've launched in 2015, not '16. in almost a decade that didn't get a new mainline schedule that suggests something's missing We broke this down in exhaustive detail in video we'll give you the short version. In data, and a leak of Sun &amp; Moon's source code a list of every Pokemon game, including some purpose of those lists was to facilitate games battling. Sun &amp; Moon's code showed placeholder data and Crystal, which hadn't been announced yet, which eventually became Ultra Sun &amp; Moon. Reserve&quot;, positioned as if they were gonna eventually did come out, except the two Kalos weren't just reserving space for Pokemon Z games make more money than one, after all. Z's -- maybe X2 &amp; Y2, or XZ &amp; YZ with the evidence for what they would've been called just refer to them collectively as Pokemon even more light on that Z-shaped hole in 2015. game releases. The first episode of the Black &amp; White the games. Black &amp; White anime season 2. The XY anime and games also released the with the episode where pretty much all the And finally, the XYZ anime aired its first 10% and 50% forms made their first appearance, The anime's all planned out long in advance, to launch alongside the XYZ anime in 2015. just waiting in a post-game cave with no story Kyurem had in Black &amp; White, which got more Fans expected a similarly expanded role for to hint in that direction when it said, quote: disarray, Zygarde appears and reveals its two new Zygarde forms, cores, and cells found also some unused content in X &amp; Y's internal more for Kalos, at least at the time those Floette, which has unique stats, a signature own cry in X &amp; Y's internal data, none of two moves for Zygarde, Thousand Arrows and A similar thing happened in Gen 5, when Freeze internal data, but didn't get added as Kyurem's That the same thing happened twice suggests Arrows and Thousands Waves for Pokemon Z. got introduced in Sun &amp; Moon instead. All that evidence strongly suggests Game Freak X &amp; Y. So why didn't they? We spent about year's video, so this time we'll just give a lot to do with the Gear Project. What's a Game Freak company initiative that aimed even more popular than Pokemon. According Onoue: &quot;There are two different production and Production Team 2. Team 1 is fully dedicated operation. What that means is that Game Freak which is production team number one, more to create something that is equally exciting, words, for a good chunk of the 2010's, they non-Pokemon games. Like the rhythm-platformer Jockey, side-scroller Tembo the Badass Elephant, Project was at its most active in the Gen making Pokemon Z. Some of Game Freak's top talent worked on Omega Ruby &amp; Alpha Sapphire and Ultra Sun small, but Z could've been made with a small example, was developed in just a year. In says HeartGold &amp; SoulSilver were made by just small team. Pokemon games grew their staff back-of-the-napkin math, Z could've gotten Freak staff have said in quite a few interviews year after year, and frankly, we can't blame learn some new skills, and work on something hopes of producing something more exciting games got decent reviews, but hardly anyone &quot;[Only] 1 out of 50 Pokemon fans have played try this one out,' but the message didn't By all appearances, when Game Freak was making the time came, they were too thin and stretched Freak though, prioritizing failed games over never got Z -- there's likely some off-the-record interests or office politics. Unfortunately, story with the public. You might be wondering on our findings, it doesn't appear Z was ever miners to look through Gen 7's source code, pasted from Z. Possibly some ideas got recycled, Aside from sparse data and leftovers, and XYZ anime, it's doubtful we'll ever know what know either. Probably over-optimistic wishful they'll figure it out, and make it an episode With Generations 5 &amp; 6 out of the way, now launched in 2016, Eurogamer reported that Pokemon Stars was coming to Switch the following Tom Phillips, claimed to have several sources the Switch edition would add new Pokemon. to an HD console, which presumably meant we'd than the 3DS's meager 240p. Some fans even wait for Stars instead. Hype continued to when The Pokemon Company announced a new campaign release of an entire line of stars-themed a tweet starting with the words &quot;Pokemon Stars&quot; to come. Anticipation peaked in mid-2017 when Stars. It appeared to just be a placeholder, was January 2030, but that didn't stop Stars #87 on Amazon's video game bestsellers list. Official confirmation seemingly arrived when Company's website said they were coming to the Switch reference and put out a statement believed the slip-up was Stars getting revealed after all, very similar to how Eurogamer described with some new Pokemon added, launching holiday two games instead of one, and of course, the Switch release still seemed likely. One detail The Pokemon Company fired the team responsible coming to Switch. We couldn't 100% confirm replaced right after it happened, so it certainly Another point of note -- we talked earlier two then-unreleased games codenamed &quot;Alola games, but they were reserved spots. It's of those reservations and left the other unused. did exist, it's possible it was a codename one. Regardless, eventually it became clear Stars 2016 article, Eurogamer's Tom Phillips returned with Pokemon Stars?&quot; The internet'd been he felt he owed an explanation. Long story Stars' cancellation was primarily a casualty failure of the Wii U, Nintendo originally Switch year one -- Zelda, Mario, and Pokemon. in popularity, and the problem wasn't that were selling out of them, and couldn't even need to play their trump card anymore -- in worse, so instead Ultra Sun &amp; Moon and a few were released throughout 2017 to keep the the Switch couldn't carry the company all the time was that both consoles would exist for the 3DS. Eurogamer also said an HD 3DS look bad in its first year, which was another Understandably, some folks were pessimistic accusing Eurogamer of making it all up for sides, we should give some time to the rumor's Merrick. He publicly accused Eurogamer of Tom Phillips in his article's comments section. to Joe and asked what he makes of the rumor. been ported to Switch purely for the sake an actual product for sale. Maybe someone got the wrong idea, and leaked it to Eurogamer. it all up. When we talked to Tom, he emphatically doesn't run stories based on a single source, at minimum. He wouldn't reveal who his sources professional positions where mistaking a test To be fair to Tom, we should point out that the first to report on the Switch's design before they were officially revealed by Nintendo. NES Classic, Diablo 3 on Switch, and quite announced. Not everything he's written about English localization of Mother 3. But suffice in the gaming industry with fake insider information, by his postmortem article, and for the record, plan to release the Stars project on Switch In an attempt to corroborate Tom's reporting, on Gen 7, but they all turned us down or didn't on pretty tight lockdown, unfortunately. There conclusively if there was ever fire. Whether a mystery even to this day. For this last -- it's been designated Lost Media for years, been added to the Internet Archive. It ain't now if you like. We'll talk about that more itself. Pokemon 2000 Adventure was an officially-licensed expected it'd be when they signed the contract million people'd already played it. The history movie -- called Pokemon the Movie 2000 -- was Along with the movie, Nintendo fully licensed materials to sell more tickets. Nintendo were and maybe cheap web games, like Pikachu-themed Brothers to spend millions producing a 3D But that's exactly what WB did -- they contracted made virtual shopping malls, a Harry Potter experiences. Think of 'em like DOOM -- 3D in an internet browser -- pretty impressive use this 'cutting edge' technology to promote Ruminski, one of Cyberworld's developers: we had about a million downloads in the span to date -- and that's when Nintendo freaked. desist. They thought Warner Brothers broke allowable scope, basically. Nintendo didn't that was legitimately a video game.&quot;] Back were Pokemon Snap and Pokemon Stadium. So adventure and think it was a new direction a threat, and were concerned it'd cause brand at the time, but he was the only guy at Cyberworld VHS of Pokemon The Movie 2000, sat Eddie in turn this into a video game?&quot; After they bounced here's what they came up with. What you're watching now is one of our playthroughs hearing is the game's soundtrack. The game a disturbance in the force, and you've gotta teams, and a difficulty -- beginner, intermediate, three islands in any order you want. Your obstacles that require Pokemon's special abilities for example -- on our playthrough we used then he got experience points and evolved -- it asked us a trivia question about Lavender us the Red Ancient Sphere. Then on the next walk across it, melted an ice barrier with to get another sphere. On the final island, evolved a couple more Pokemon, and got the thanked us for saving the world and awarded can also get a final score and gold, silver, did. The game's only about 10 minutes, but three Pokemon teams and three difficulty settings down the game, the devs'd already got paid, and they got to say they'd worked on a massively &quot;It was the greatest compliment via cease was too much like a good video game.' At the like, we've already been paid. That was a Once it was pulled, it was like, we did the downloads that we like, didn't even dream were all happy.&quot;] Warner Brothers was happy too -- with a million were expecting, and Pokemon 2000 went on to movie to ever hit American theaters. So really, you wanna play the game yourself, you'll be you can play it right now. Eddie's been holding then after he saw our video about restoring all the files. One of the Pokemon Garden did some computer magic to get it working harder than it sounds. All credit goes to in the back and forth. We won't bore you with we said -- it ain't Lost Media anymore, go about it though, just in case Nintendo strikes also archived the game's concept art, storyboards, if it does get struck down, it'll always survive Did you also know there were some Gen 3 era have become lost media because no one bothered wanna hear all about Pokemon Garden, Mazeland, Special thanks to our translators, artists, all others refused. And thank you for watching.