Basically what we're...what we're looking It's the ghost of oceans past, essentially. I've never seen anything like this before. Picture this: a hundred million years ago, The geology created by this ancient ocean as a result, in the events that shaped African How did ancient rocks shape the legacy of are these stories being revealed today through I'm evolutionary biologist Shane Campbell-Staton, Exactly what is it that I'm looking at here? Yeah, you're seeing a million and a half years Wow. That's a lot of history. This is biological oceanographer, Craig McClain. Think of a ridiculously oversized roadside a selfie with it. But in his day job, Craig studies some of So let's go back to about 135 million years We're at the beginning of the Cretaceous period. So at this time, the climate's warm. And so the polar ice caps are melted. This is all what we call shallow seas. Okay so the Gulf extended much farther inland That's right. Oh, very much so. We would be a couple hundred feet underwater. And so that caused a lot of plankton production And among those plankton were microscopic There's so many of them that the zooplankton So a lot of it's just sinking to the sea floor. Over millions of years, layer upon layer of own weight into chalk. Every foot that you see there is about 18,000 What happens here is this is so packed and out of this. After the Cretaceous seas retreated, this And for millions of years, decomposing plants on top of the chalk layer. The result? A band of super-productive soils that traces That is what's known as the Black Belt because now at the surface and have led to plant and There's a lot more cotton production, and adjacent counties outside of this region. And so that meant that there was more enslaved areas. It's kinda hard to wrap my head around...Thinking being shaped by deposits of millions of years That's crazy. The planet may have set the stage for what was written by people and the decisions they [phone ringing] Hello? Hey, Sven. How's it going, man? Good, good, good. How are you, Shane? Even on sabbatical in Florence, Italy, Sven capitalism. He's written an award-winning book on the cotton. You walk into a store and you can buy a t-shirt jeans for a few more dollars. It's almost like the air we breathe. But this white fluffy fiber, once we start understand how the world in which we live possibilities and with all of its problems. By the late 18th century, the French Caribbean - was the world's top producer of raw But in 1791, enslaved African workers revolted bringing cotton production to a halt... And creating an economic opportunity for the The moment when cotton comes to the United important to cotton...is the early 1790s. Just two years after the Haitian Revolution, first mechanical cotton gin, a machine that than a human worker. Whitney genuinely believed his invention would But the efficiency of the cotton gin actually expansion of the plantation system across that formed the Black Belt. In the United States, planters...they were And so, they could deploy the Federal Government to force enslaved Africans to work in cotton This is the moment then that the United States cotton for global market and the most important The stories of the enslaved people whose labor and pieces in written and oral histories. But the legacy of slavery is also written Ancestry is kind of a vague term because if ancestor. Steven Micheletti is a geneticist at the consumer I started off my career looking at actually fish, then moving on to humans. That's a pretty big jump. What prompted the change? I started studying migrations using population And that brought me here where we have the data, to look at these widespread migrations When people move from place to place, they their children. So researchers like Steven can use DNA to migration of the slave trade. We were interested in studying Africa because many people. For a lot of Black Americans, myself included, came from, how they got here, and when. But our genes can tell us stories that aren't Close family members have a lot of DNA that So it's easy to figure out the relationship But with technology today, we can actually Now we can actually infer these distant relationships Genetic data from 50,000 research participants written histories of the Transatlantic slave If we focus specifically on the historical enslaved people was West Central Africa, where If we look on the genetic side, we see that connections to West Central Africa. So that's pretty intuitive. More people were being taken from West Central have genetic connections to that region. But the genetic data also show that the Transatlantic Importing enslaved people from Africa was But slavery continued, supported by a domestic enslaved people were forced to migrate from Maryland - to the Deep South, where cotton And that left a signature in the DNA, too. The group of people that were impacted the Probably as a result we see that a lot of the Igbo people. They have a lot of Nigerian ancestry. Most Black Americans also have some ancestry And the details paint a troubling picture. In general, genetic males have an X and a X chromosomes. So we can look specifically at ancestry on maternal or paternal line originated from. And one of the disturbing things we found have a European paternal line and an African And over 60% of people taken from Africa were people today. What story does this tell us? It tells us about exploitation of enslaved And it tells us that, to be blunt, they were We wouldn't see this pattern any other way...And of enslaved women. These genetic data confirm it. And centuries later, millions of us still in our DNA. For Steven, delving into his own family's too. Let's start by looking at the ancestry composition And this is actually for my grandfather who We found that his maternal haplogroup, which directly to this L3F1B. This is uncommon among 23andMe customers, populations. And for me, what this means is, I know his It's likely that somewhere along the line and at some point they reproduced with likely DNA in our genome because of this. Now, when you saw these results, does it change This is telling the tale of my family's history disturbing. I welcome diversity in my genome. I think that's great. I just don't like how it got there. Yeah, yeah. Yeah, I can understand that. Our identities certainly aren't determined But they're not disconnected from our genes, I mean, one of the things that drew me to the story of DNA, it's just a very powerful Something that really captivated me and still But there's something a lot more intimate and biological legacy of slavery in the US. And all of those things are intertwined both fundamental building blocks that make up my It's just closer. It's like this part of the human footprint about a lot. Of course, DNA isn't the only way you can It's also part of our politics. Craig McClain brought the data to show me So this is a geologic map. The different colors here sort of represent right? And what you can see here is this green band That we were standing on. This is what eventually becomes the belt. That's right. That is the sort of chalk deposits that begin And you can see faintly here, this line in Same band. That same band, this is cotton production. Each one of those dots represents about 10,000 And this is the percentage of enslaved people. And you can see that in some places it's quite And of course as you go further north and to drop off. This is harder to look at than I thought it I can imagine so. Yeah. So where do we go from here? So this is more recently, and this is the It is the same band over and over again. It's the same. So once those enslaved people were freed, How do these demographics then translate into Okay, so this is the 2008... Oh my god. ...presidential election. And so it's that same band, right? African Americans on average, typically vote And so in these cases, in a sea of Republican counties often vote primarily Democratic. This is crazy. This is crazy. Right, and it continues to play out. So this is the recent 2020 election. Wow. So it continues to play out over and over I've never seen anything like this before. The patterns Craig is showing me only appeared signed into law. So after that, we start to see it coming in And then every presidential election it gets until the last two to three decades, where In other words, each time the U.S. holds an ancient coastline that cuts across the American Oh my god, the idea that there's a single organisms to voting patterns across geographic I've just literally never seen anything like When I sort of heard about this, I really finding more and more patterns that reflected The places we live - and even the soil under possible. But they don't make any one history inevitable. It's one thing to have, here in Alabama, to I mean just because these soils were here There's no question the world we live in But the impacts we have on the planet, and Those are on us, and the choices we make. Thanks for watching! If you want more Human Footprint, you can or on your local PBS station. Check out the link in the description to find out more about the show!