(energetic music) - We make salt from seawater, one of the few companies right here on the Oregon coast. Anybody can make salt, but it's very difficult to especially from a natural We make pure flake salt, It takes about two weeks from We are literally on the bay right here. The seawater is 10 and our salt making It's about a seven mile It's very high in salinity, which is of course very We want to get as high as salinity or as high a salt count as possible when we're trying to make salt. I think I ended up getting from 27 different spots from all the way in Neah Bay in Washington and made salt from all of those and literally just Netarts Bay was far and away the best. The reason Netarts Bay is so special is because you have higher but then you also have that are farmed here. Individual oysters can filter about 20 gallons of seawater a day. It's been clean for an and we hope to keep it that way forever. This is our intake pipe. We pump seawater in through this pretty underwhelming We'll walk up very shortly up the hill to our filtration and reverse osmosis. So this is a reverse osmosis unit. Typically reverse osmosis is used to either clean or purify water We, of course, are desalinating seawater, but we want the salty part of the seawater and not the fresh water. It'll pass through the reverse osmosis and then to these storage tanks. Seawater is, you know, in the ocean as it is. Through this process, we're that concentration of (light upbeat music) This is where a lot of the Jason handles all operations - So what's happening here through the reverse osmosis unit and it is now coming through gravity and fed into these boils. What's very important about the stages is we are raising the salinity. We're also cleaning it through heat. One of the main reasons we don't just cook it down to what's left, it's a big misconception 'cause through this process Some of the calcium and or bond to the bottom of the pot. In fact, it can create things like this. And so this is over time, this will be built up You never really get rid of the calcium. It'll always be there, but we can get as much as possible out. And if we do it this way, when the salt forms, - We're removing a lot of the bitterness associated with those minerals. So you're left with a very clean, straightforward sodium chloride crystal. The flavor of our salt is clean, briny. Some people often describe it as sweet, which is obviously a weird What they're kind of going and pure it taste with no impurities and then just dissipates. - It all has to line up right. If it's not, then the quality can change, and all it is, is what's going on around. Can we make the perfect batch? This is the point where we actually end up filtering that last time. So it goes from our boil shed through the side of this building through a filtration system, which is three 30 inch .5 micron filters, and that will get everything out of it. Remember, clean, clean, Come on in, I'm gonna show you where all the fancy stuff happens. (light electronic music) So now we are in the evaporator room, and this is where we In this room we have 10 pans. Each pan's 150 something gallons. We have two pans per pot. We average between 400 These evap pans right here We fill these up to surface and then we turn the heat on. There's still a little that we need to have happen here. And so we do one more thing to clean it, and we will go through and we will clean the top of this off. And once we see the first grain of salt being formed here, stop. You don't clean nothing no more. Now you let it do its thing. The crystals will start and you'll start moving around to where it forms a large just large enough to can't hold it anymore, and then it starts snowing into the pans. - The salt crystals form through a very precise and mineral composition of the brine. Then they gently fall like a leaf falling from a tree. That process is really beautiful. (upbeat music) - So what you're seeing right here is not just any type of shovel. And the reason why there's holes in this is because we want it to drain. That brine is still making salt. So we can let it go back in And then when it's time (gentle upbeat music) So the way we harvest, as you can see, I'm using practically no You're letting the fluid act almost as a lubricant underneath the salt. And you gently take a scoop and then place it on this rack to drain. You cannot be impatient - Finishing salts is still something that mystifies a lot of America. I found out about it when and was blown away by really simple food. And so then I moved back here to Oregon and realized nobody in America was making great flake finishing salt. - A lot of it does have to how hot it is outside, how That can slow or speed up our boil process just based off of evaporation. If you harvest too soon, and it can increase the evaporation rate, so therefore maybe lose more liquid. If you wait too long in a pan and there's too much salt in it, those flakes can bond together and become much more You have to find the right And what you're seeing right now is you were letting it drain that might still be sitting So at this point, we come over here and we gently, don't toss it in. This isn't dirt, this is These little pans down here, what they do is they that has traveled through We try very, very hard to - So I'd been making salt for about two and a half years for fun, and I would just get a couple bring it back in a milk jug. Hauled seawater over the coast range for almost two and a half years 'til we finally found this spot here, which is an old oyster farm, remarkably well-suited to salt making too. It's a completely natural product, one of the most essential Our body is largely made up of saltwater. - Once we harvest, let it Rinse it with fresh cold water, And so we rinse out any brine that might still be on the salt. You have two big holes on each side. Between 12 and 24 hours, sort of knock it around a little bit, so that we can reposition it If you don't drain it real well, you end up with salt at the bottom. It will end up bonding together, creating more of like a rock we can't sift, and it At that point, we actually You end up getting something like this. You can see it's very white, flaky. This is unsifted. It still Once they're finished draining, And this can last depending on the salt. One batch could take 47 hours to dry. Another batch could take 24 hours to dry. So now we're in post-production. This is Amanda. She is in charge of post-production, and every single flake of salt passes through those gloved fingers. - So once the salt is all dried and comes out of the dehydrating room, it comes over to the sifter. You put a scoop in the top, and it gives me a chance like the calcium that bonds to It has two separate screens in It will separate the kosher and our flake. Our kosher, it's more like your everyday, all-purpose, more practical to use. And then the flake that we It's more for like, But then every once in a while we get these really big flakes. That's what we call pure flake. (salt tinkling) This is that great, big, It just makes a different sort of sound, almost like a tinkling sound. This is like the gold, it's You can see the difference in the sizes. It's so large it won't go When that happens, I and this part is by hand. I go through every single flake, and if I find any impurities, it gets picked out and sorted. The structure of these flakes It's natural. They form point side down and you can really see all of the lines. It's so symmetrical. They are so rare that it seven different batches, to come up with about 10 and I touched every single So that's kind of cool - We have our pure flake salt that's used by a ton of And then we have a bunch of different really great infused salt. So we're gonna try some salt. Thought it would be with our salt, of course. Oysters being from the same Rosemary is one of our Top it with a little bit of Rosemary Salt. It's vibrant and green Our Black Garlic Salt, it's It's an umami bomb. It's like you get this that's been fermented of and then dried it out and Right now we're gonna try it on a little baguette and butter. I can't think of a better afternoon snack. I feel grateful to be a It's fun to work with It's an honor. We are a very small, yet Everybody's gotta eat And so if we can do that that feels great. But I'm consistently blown I mean, frankly, every that leaves this facility are special. It's a work of art. And we're kind of like steering and just kind of, you know, redirecting it in the tiniest little (upbeat music)