On June 4, 2022, a small piece of equipment plant in Odessa, Texas failed, causing was a fairly typical fault that happens lot of equipment involved in producing and and every once in a while, things and we have reserves that can pick up the slack. Within seconds of that one little short the entire Texas grid unexpectedly lost 2,500 of the total demand), mainly from solar plants a single 300-megawatt fault at a single power gigawatts, dropping the system frequency to "Resource Loss Protection Criteria," which redundancy measures in place. Another disconnecting customers to reduce demand. If you lived in Texas at the time, you but this relatively innocuous event sent alarm Solar plants, large-scale batteries, and wind thermal power plants that make up such a big 2022 Odessa disturbance found that it wasn't plants to drop so much production all at once, a wide variety of algorithms and configuration reacted in unexpected ways when they The failure happened just before noon on the state were at peak output, representing grid. That might seem high, but there have more than a third of Texas's grid, and that grid comprised of solar power is climbing but worldwide. So the engineering challenges in with the grid that wasn't really built for them of course, I have some demos set up in the garage Engineering. In today's episode, we're talking Solar panels and batteries work on direct current, it's a relatively constant number. This as well. Of course, they are large spinning or natural gas plants. But unlike in thermal consistent source of power through a it's usually more efficient to let the turbine the wind into the blades. There are quite you get a variable-speed alternating current from it's easier to first convert it to DC. mostly renewables, that output DC, but the grid Nearly all bulk power infrastructure, including uses an alternating current. I won't go but the biggest benefit of an AC grid is that equipment (transformers) to change the voltage insulation requirements and the efficiency of or more specifically invert, the DC power from batteries, solar panels, and most wind turbines "inverter-based resources" because they are so The oldest inverters were mechanical devices: a simple to show. I have a battery-powered I pull the trigger, the drill motor spins the we can see on the oscilloscope. Maybe you this is not very efficient. There are losses in energy and then back into electrical energy on the speed of the motor, which is not always most inverters use solid-state electronic These are practically ubiquitous these and it's convenient to power AC devices from get nice clean power from the other end... haha just alternating current, but often in a way that to the device smooths it out a bit, but not much. In essence, switches in the inverter turn on and timing of the pulses, you can adjust the average and down into an approximate sine wave. Cheaper roughly wave-like signal. More sophisticated smoothing the curve into something closer to a Boost the voltage on the way in or the way out, the pulses, and that's how you get a battery you get a solar panel to send power into the For one, look at the waveform of my inverter and but they're definitely not a match. Even the making an interconnection here, since I don't have inverter would let out the magic smoke. A grid-tie the phase and frequency of the grid and be able much current is flowing into or out of the device. called a phase-locked loop. The inverter senses those little switches accordingly to match what inverters. They synchronize to the grid frequency flow of power. And that hints at one of their I've done a video all about black starts, to learn more, but (in general), wind, and batteries can only follow what's they are too, regardless of whether the sun's most grid-tied solar systems on houses There's another interesting thing that inverters works in my driveway. I have a solar panel measuring the voltage and current produced by the output voltage of the panel goes down and linear effect. I recorded the voltage and current to get the power output. If you graph the power as can see there's an optimum resistance that gets the maximum power point. If you deviate on either words, you're leaving power on the table. You're What's even more challenging is that point panel and the amount of sun hitting it. I and you can see how the graph changes. So nearly what's called a Maximum Power Point Tracker (or follow that point as it changes with sunniness from the inverter, but often they're located housing. Even this panel came with a charge and you can see it adjusting the flow of peak of the curve while it charges this battery. but in many cases, each panel or group curve is just a little bit different output individually can often squeeze a Squeezing out capacity is essential to address resources on the grid: frequency. The rate at back and forth is an important measure of how outstrips the generation capacity, the frequency the generation side and the stuff we plug in, is it deviates too far, stuff goes wrong: Devices get out of sync, and more. It's so important out of whack, grid operators will disconnect balance with the available supply of power, called the grid all the time, so generators have to be frequency stable. Here's the quintessential Say a generator trips offline, maybe because of a The system frequency immediately starts dropping, the frequency will keep dropping unless we inject that, called Primary Frequency Response, usually If we do it fast enough, the frequency will reach recover to the nominal value. The nadir is a the grid will have to shed load in order to the rate-of-change-of-frequency, basically time is available to get more power into the and there are several factors that play into it: how quickly we can respond, and how much inertia traditionally make up the bulk of generating basically a bunch of synchronized flywheels. during a disturbance, reducing the slope Maybe you can see the problem with a simple with the frequency, even if that frequency help arrest a deviation in frequency. If we the share of inverter-based resources, any reducing the time available to get backup to shed load. Larger renewable plants, like to participate in primary frequency response, the frequency drops. And some inverters can even physical response to changes in frequency. Dealing with an over-frequency event is relatively you're sending into the grid. But, response have more energy to inject. In other words, you just in case it gets called on during the system. For a power company, that means the energy markets are set up to pay power plants either through operating below maximum output The last big thing that inverter-based resources protective systems that can de-energize solar or lead to damage. These are expensive projects, and wrong, requiring costly repairs or replacement. have those protective systems being so sensitive like what happened in Odessa. This concept Especially for under-frequency events, power to the grid to provide support. If in response to a disturbance, it can lead to war between owners trying to protect their faults happen, and we need you not to shut reliability requirements are getting because every manufacturer has their own As inverter-based resources continue to grow portfolio, their engineering challenges are only of the big ones: lack of black start ability, low there are a lot more. But inverters also provide devices, and the technology is improving quickly. and they aren't constrained by the physical they can respond more quickly, and, unlike inverters can provide a sustained response. unlike their grid-following brethren, can without the need for a functioning grid to rely working out the bugs that these new but if you pay attention to what's happening in people from all sides of the industry are working that we'll soon come out with a more reliable, I build a lot of homemade demonstrations comes across how much joy it gives me. I love constraints on budget and tools. But I've fellow creators who runs the Neo channel story of two families escaping East Germany I don't know about you, but I have to say that by independent creators. There's just something hasn't had to go through 5 levels of studio on The Balloon Escape is a perfect example. Just including an interview with one of the beautiful animations they're known for. And, if You probably know about Nebula now, even if built by and for independent creators. No studio no algorithm driving the content into the way. We just released a huge update making it easier to find new stuff in addition so the new categories can help you My videos go live on Nebula before they series, where I embedded on a construction for Nebula viewers who want to see deeper dives streaming platforms out there right now, and no but I also know that if you're watching a other stuff on Nebula that you're going to click the link below and you'll get 40% off an 30 dollars, for an entire year's access at subscription fatigue, but still want to support Pay once and have access for as long as you time! If you're with me that independent I hope you'll consider subscribing. Thank you