- Bubble, bubble toil and trouble. (suspenseful music) Fire burn and cauldron bubble! Something wicked this way comes! Magical deeds are afoot dear readers, magical darkness (fan thwoorps) a must. (laughs) (fan thwoorps) Joanne, I wanna talk to you Joanne! (fan thwoorps) What is it about Joannes? I can't catch a break from these people. So, now that 2020 is finally over, I think we can let the that it was a year whomst is bad. And on top of everything truly the last thing we needed was the author of Harry Potter coming forward to announce there's two things she and the transgenders. Ow! Elderberry wand, turgid, with a core of... Icedragon. Lumos! Can we afford spells? Is that in the budget? Expecto Patreon! So you've probably heard by transphobic tweets, under a rock, in which case get back under that rock sweetie, there is nothing good going Or maybe you heard that all Joanne did was say biological sex is real, and now crazy gender ideologues and transactivists are This is cancel culture gone (sniffling) Celebrities are under attack. This is the new Salem. This is Orwell's nightmare. This is a painful topic for me all around because, as a transgender woman, I am honestly really hurt Joanne has said in the last year. But I also know what it's like to be the target of a Twitter mob. And I realize that to most people, complaining about &quot;being canceled, waahh&quot;- it sounds incredibly Like you'd especially think like J.K. Rowling would be above staying up alone at people say online. But you'd think wrong. See, you underestimate of the human condition. And no amount of fame and You know, fame alienates it dehumanizes you in which can actually make even when people are never mind how it feels when they're hunting you as a witch. The truth is that unless you've personally experienced infamy, being shamed and shunned on a scale the human brain can't really even understand, then you just don't know what it's like, and you don't know how you But Joanne knows, and when I see her there's a traumatized part of me that's unironically triggered by watching people cancel her. And I want to protecc. (fan thwoorps) My nurturing and compassionate nature sometimes gets the best of me. But there's also part of me How could you do this to me Joanne? I did not come out of the cupboard under the stairs for this. So what I wanna do in this video is take Joanne's pain seriously, and treat her like a complex human being, while also being critical about &quot;the transgender question.&quot; And I also wanna explore is coming from. Because they're in pain too, and don't they also So, without further ado, let's go in, with a Mac 224 Tapered Blending Brush and see if we can find, the truth. Swish and flick! (Goldberg Variations Aria) So is the author of Harry Well she certainly seems that she is not a bigot. - [Interviewer] What - [Rowling] Bigotry - And looking over Joanne's tweets, I don't think the average person would see any problem with what she's said. However, I mean not to be condescending, but, I feel like the average of *transgender* is still a little bit... &quot;I don't really get &quot;Like why can't you I don't know Amber. Why don't you be a feminine man? Who knows, you could be missing out! So we're gonna go through the things that Joanne said about trans people, but I don't want this to or a video saying, &quot;Cancel Like I wanna try to do something a little bit more meaningful than that. So I'm gonna use J.K. Row as a case study in bigotry, and see if we can maybe learn something about what bigotry is. How does it work, and how do otherwise good And if we can make any progress well for once I think my Patreon budget. (magical sound) So keeping in mind our very serious and educational purpose, throw some tea. So this all started in 2018 when Joanne liked a transphobic tweet and followed an anti-trans account. Now in the interest of of the doubt as I can, I'm not gonna admit this as evidence because I don't wanna Strike it from the record. (hammering) That was fun. I like hammering things. (hammering) The real story begins in December 2019 when Joanne tweeted the referencing Maya Forstater. Maya Forstater is an English consultant who lost her contract with the non-profit she worked for after she And Maya has been kind enough to compile them all for us in her thread titled Well, let's take a look and - [Forstater] Yes I think that I don't think being a woman or female is a matter of identity It is biology. - [Natalie] Another says. - [Forstater] Some people with a penis can be a woman, some (a majority) don't. Neither group should be in everyday life. But in situations involving taking your clothes off for strangers, integration of the two - And there's a cartoon of a hairy-armed, hairy-legged *burgeoning* trans woman flashing her penis at &quot;It's all right, it's a woman's penis.&quot; So we're looking at a standard Everyone born female is a woman. Everyone born male is man. Trans women are predators And I'm being oppressed Is this what you want, Joanne? You wanna put the sorting hat on humanity and divide us up into little houses? Well what if I'm a Gryffindor trapped in Hufflepuff's body? Okay, so why does Joanne stand with Maya? Well if tweet simply said, &quot;I stand with Maya&quot; without further explanation, you could give her the maybe she just doesn't think people should lose their job for having bigoted opinions, even if she disagrees with those opinions. But if that's all she was saying, I wouldn't be making this video, would I? The full tweet reads: - [Rowling] Dress however you please. Call yourself whatever you like. Sleep with any consenting Live your best life in peace and security. But to force women out of their jobs for stating that sex is real? #IStandWithMaya #ThisIsNotADrill. - Now I'm guessing that, to most people, this tweet at first glance It might even seem since she said we're allowed to dress however we want and call But there's a couple things about this that don't sit right with me. First is the phrase, force for stating that sex is real. &quot;Sex is real&quot; is a of what Maya said in her - [Forstater] I believe to change your sex or to lose your sex. Girls grow up to be women. Boys grow up to be men. No change of clothes or hairstyle, no plastic surgery, no no course of hormones, no force of will or social conditioning, no declaration can turn a or a male person into a female. - If Joanne had said Maya had been fired for claiming that a person born male can never be a woman, can never be a man, that But it would also sound contentious, and obviously anti-trans. Sex is real is a euphemism designed to present Maya Forstater's transphobia as a simple statement of which only crazy activists Transphobes love to play this game where they pretend that trans people just don't understand basic biology, that's our problem! As if I didn't start because I'm acutely aware that my body is not the that sex is real. - [Nigella] You will Every cell in your body is - Really? That's crazy. How you'd you learn so much about science? You know I don't really feel the need to have a second X chromosome, I get by with only one, I make it work. I actually like the Y chromosome, I think it's a little it's little softer, a little more petite. The X chromosome has a and don't you think? I don't need anymore of those, thanks. No trans person thinks it's possible to change chromosomal sex and to pretend otherwise When we say that someone is a trans man or a trans woman we're talking about psychological and social identity. So when transphobes say, &quot;Sex is real&quot; they're not actually most trans people believe. Except by implication. When transphobes say, &quot;Sex is real&quot; what they mean is that only They mean they don't believe which they trivialize by &quot;fashion choices,&quot; &quot;whatever When Joanne says, &quot;Dress &quot;call yourself whatever you like,&quot; she's belittling what it reducing it to a change It's similar to the language For example, the homophobic equivalent of Joanne's tweet might read: Choose whatever lifestyle you want. Indulge your sexual preferences with any consenting adult in the privacy of your own bedroom. But force Christians out of their jobs for stating that marriage #IStandWithKimDavis. A penis and a sausage cannot make a baby. Checkmate the gays, it's just science. Homophobes trivialize They refer to it as &quot;sexual preferences&quot; or &quot;a lifestyle&quot; or &quot;what We don't tell straight people in the bedroom. (laughs) But we should. Clearly, the straights Being gay is more than It's also who you love, it's part of who you are, and that's something that stays with you outside of the bedroom. So to dismiss it as &quot;sexual Likewise, being trans is not a costume I take off at the end of the night. It's not a fashion choice. It's not a pet name some people call me. It's part of who I am It's part of my humanity. And it's also the kind of body I have, a transsexual body. So telling trans people is not really a supportive statement. Unless you're supporting YouTubers wearing Louis Vuitton socks in their videos apologizing which is not valid, and YouTubers are constantly because we see ourselves and we can't stand the sight of it. So, after the Maya Forstater tweet, Joanne was silent about But she took up the first to complain about the use the phrase &quot;people who menstruate&quot; trying to include trans in a discussion of period poverty. That same night, presumably in response being lit up by leftist teenagers who think Stalin did nothing wrong but Rachel Maddow is a war criminal, Joanne tweeted a thread that sex is real, adding. - [Rowling] It isn't - [Natalie] And concluding with another backhanded statement of support: - [Rowling] I respect to live any way that feels authentic and comfortable to them. I'd march with you if you on the basis of being trans. - *If* you were discriminated against on the basis of being trans? If? Widespread discrimination is well documented. In fact, the same week as Joanne's tweet, the Trump administration removed nondiscrimination in healthcare and health insurance. So, are you marching There's a lot of stuff in these tweets that might seem innocent enough to the average person but which to someone against trans people raises a red flag. Bigotry always has a history. And in order to understand bigotry, you have to learn that history. Prejudices are made up narratives, arguments, which we have to learn them. No one is born thinking that the gays are destroying the family, or that women are naturally subservient, or that the Jews are trying So if you aren't familiar you might not notice &quot;He never said he hated the Jews,&quot; &quot;he is simply concerned about &quot;of Jewish people in media But if you're aware, woke if you will, then it kind of rings alarm bells when you hear someone repeating When I see Joanne tweeting about how trans people think sex isn't real and they're erasing same-sex attraction and they're silencing women, alarm bells are ringing these as familiar specifically TERF talking points. &quot;TERF&quot; means trans God are we still talking about this? I promise this is the last time. So TERFism is a hate movement that disguises Bigotry has a history. The foundational TERF Janice Raymond's 1979 book, &quot;The Transsexual Empire: In which Raymond argues that quote. - [Raymond] All transsexuals by reducing the real appropriating this body for themselves. - [Natalie] She claims of the patriarchy who quote, - [Raymond] Merely cut of invading women. - This book set the general tone for feminist transphobia, and I bring this up because of how this kind of transphobe talks when they're not afraid - [Nigella] Typical male narcissist, Nathan manipulates his cultish audience into thinking he's the victim - If you keep calling me Nathan, (Rule Britannia) Cheerio old chap. (laughs) Or whatever you people say. Here's the thing, Nigella. Bigotry can be mean yes, and it usually is when bigots think they can get away with it. But it's vital to is not the essence of bigotry. Bigotry can be hateful, yes, but specifically, bigotry a political threat to the target group. The fundamental problem with TERFs is not that they're mean. Is that they're politically reactionary, they want to reverse the In the final chapter of Raymond lays out her solution - [Raymond] The problem of transsexualism would best be served out of existence. I believe that the is not best achieved by legislation prohibiting transsexual but rather by legislation that limits it. I would favor restricting and centers where transsexual The kind of counseling as masculine or feminine that now reigns in gender identity clinics only reinforces the - She goes on to argue for alternative feminist consciousness-raising - [Raymond] I am not so they will make transsexualism but they would at least pose the existence of a real alternative to - So like homophobes, TERFs a kind of conversion therapy aimed at eliminating transsexual And like the anti-abortion movement, they recognize it's not to completely make illegal they don't like. So they settle for making it as difficult as possible to get one. In 1980 Janice Raymond authored a report to the Department of repeating her arguments which was cited in the 1981 decision that Medicare would not cover That decision wasn't So there's real political It's not just a matter of being mean. Polite bigotry can be just as dangerous. Unlike Janice Raymond, J.K. and very intent on convincing all of us that she's a totally progressive LGBT ally who loves and supports trans people, while in the same breath She's constantly saying things like: &quot;I know and love trans people, *but* &quot;I'd march with you *if* you &quot;on the basis of being trans. &quot;*At the same time* &quot;None of the gender critical &quot;hates trans people; on the contrary. &quot;Many of them became &quot;in the first place out of A lot of people have a hard time noticing this kind of bigotry, and I think one reason for that is that our common is very narrow. People think of bigotry as like, judging a group instead of an individual, which is of course a horrible thing to do. I don't care for the English. They're a sick, sick people. Or people think of bigotry as hate, as something inhuman and monstrous. So when people hear the word bigot they're expecting someone some uber-Nazi who despises But the problem with the Nazis was not that they hated love and friendship. But they believed they and soil against Marxist-Bolshevism and Jewish contamination. And what were we supposed to do, not defend the Reich That's how a Nazi actually thinks, right? It's not that they hate friendship. No, they have their own internal logic of victimization and self-righteousness. So when you reduce bigotry to a caricature of pure hatred you obscure that bigotry is a deeply human problem. You know sometimes people criticize me for empathizing with bigots. But I believe that understanding bigots is the best defense against Because when you dehumanize the villains you become unable to How is she, though She needs a hot toddy is what she needs. Metal straw because I I'm so good, I'm really fucking good. The idea that bigotry is simply hate I call the Westboro Baptist It's the idea that bigots &quot;We hate you, God hates you, &quot;and we're all marching around with signs &quot;about how much we hate you.&quot; Like the bad guys in Ugh, Taylor Swift. Everyone wants to be a gay icon now. Well I don't. I don't want to be a gay icon I'm just stuck with you people. Just kidding. &quot;Shade never made anybody less gay.&quot; This isn't shade Taylor. Shade is J.K. Rowling telling trans people &quot;Sleep with any consenting adult who'll have you.&quot; Bigotry is a lot more And the video for &quot;You Need to Calm Down&quot; is just so emblematic Taylor takes the subject of homophobia and turns it into yet But in the real world, stomping around with misspelled signs are not really the problem. The most dangerous bigots and powerful people. And yeah, there still who say, &quot;It's an abomination, &quot;these perverts are spreading AIDS, &quot;they're destroying the family, &quot;they're recruiting children.&quot; But these these days it's &quot;Of course I love gay people, &quot;some of my best friends &quot;struggle with same-sex attraction, &quot;but it's not homophobic &quot;to not want LGBT ideology &quot;to children as young &quot;it's a full an assault I make a convincing homophobe, don't I? There's really two They express the same prejudice, but they're very different in tone. I'll call the two styles direct bigotry and indirect bigotry. Direct bigotry is openly contemptuous. It's bigotry manifested in slurs, in outright discrimination, in demonizing the target group, in calls for shunning, Whereas indirect bigotry or &quot;debate&quot; about a host of proxy issues. It's often defensive in Frequently the claim is that a once needed liberation that it's now the activists who are the new oppressors; who are disturbing law and order with violent and chaotic protests, who are victimizing and by calling them bigots, who are infiltrating the media and replacing good with politically correct propaganda. And of course ordinary to speak out against it because cancel culture is out of control and free speech is under attack. The direct bigot is always ranting and raving about invaders, rapists, brutish animals, vermin, roaches, rats, contagions. Whereas the indirect bigot is always a knight in shining armor: defending women, defending the children, defending marriage, defending freedom, defending the family, defending common sense, defending civilization itself, (choir music) defending God. He's all powerful but he could I think a lot of people take a borderline heroic and an indirect bigotry Indirect bigotry often it targets with some big abstract concept. Instead of Jewish people, they claim to be against, Instead of women, they or &quot;the friendzone.&quot; Gay people are de-personified Trans people become &quot;transgenderism,&quot; &quot;gender ideology,&quot; &quot;transactivists.&quot; What they're really against is equality. But they don't say that, in fact, they may not even think it. But they tell on themselves, when they react with instinctive hostility to anyone who agitates for change. &quot;It's not racist to think thugs shouldn't disrespect A book called &quot;The Anatomy of Prejudices&quot; by Elisabeth Young-Bruehl One of the points she makes bigotry is backlash. - [Young-Bruehl] Ideologies backlashes against movements of equality; they are regressive prejudices that reinstate inequalities when the force of movements for equality has been registered and (often Prejudice replaces social - Bigotry is not just of hating a group of people. Bigotry is political, it's a reaction to changing demographics, or to changing power A lot of casual misogynists in the literal psychological sense. It's more that they feel threatened by the prospect of the social and political equality of women. In fact I would argue that *feeling threatened* psychological experience of bigotry, much more so than feeling hateful. So bigotry is reactive, and it changes along that it's a reaction to. 1950s misogyny still has with 2020s misogyny. For example, a lot of men still feel women's sexuality and women's bodies. But it's also changed a have shifted in the last 70 years. The idea that women are naturally suited to domestic servitude than it used to be. And transphobia is a prejudice that's getting much louder, because in the last decade trans liberation has People are running into us at work now, they're having to use our pronouns, they're seeing us in politics or in media, and not just as laughing like we used to be, but And a lot of people are they feel threatened. That must be super fucking hard for you. &quot;Prejudice replaces social So J.K. Rowling frames her position as, &quot;I'm just saying the &quot;It's not hateful to say a fact. &quot;Why is everyone so mad at me. &quot;A fact can't be bigoted.&quot; And I agree that a fact can't be bigoted. But a fact on it's own Usually when we discuss facts, we're using those facts to tell a story. And facts can be used Suppose someone tweets the fact that the homicide rate is than white Americans. I'm gonna ask, what story with this fact? What political goals are One way indirect bigotry works is by camouflaging political struggles as intellectual debates. When Joanne says, &quot;Sex is real&quot; she sounds like she's &quot;the trans debate,&quot; which is then presented as about the metaphysics of gender, instead of what it is really is, which is a political conflict about the social equality And the effectiveness of that strategy is actually a reason I'm not &quot;trans women are women.&quot; And this is just my opinion, I don't speak for any other trans people, but there's a couple things One, is trans men and non-binary people matter just as much as trans women. But you don't as often or non-binary people are... Valid? (laughs) Doesn't really work, does it? The other problem with is it tends to invite the response, &quot;well what does it even &quot;Define womanhood!&quot; And now you're immediately getting baited into some bullshit semantic debate about &quot;what is a real woman?&quot; A real woman! How do you know you're What if you're in the matrix right now, and in the real world The tables are turned! It doesn't really matter, does it? This is metaphysics. And life is too short for metaphysics. You know, I've been down this and I always end up having about gender performativity, or worse, conversations about what it Well the truth is I don't I don't think anyone feels except a certain subgenre of gay men, and possibly Shania Twain. Probably not even her anymore, honestly, not since the early 2000s. You know, some questions rather than solved. That's what Wittgenstein said. That's right we're Sometimes the only way is to realize you're How do I know I'm a woman? Well, look at me. (fan thwoorps) I rest my case. The monitor is over there, that's what I'm looking I like to check in Look, trans people can't what gender is, in fact if you even try you end up enraging some who feels excluded. So no, trans people an ideology on people, we don't even share an ideology What we share are a common set of political struggles against harassment, against against exclusion from public life. So, what would be a better slogan than trans women are women? Well ideally something that includes all trans people and something that evades pointless philosophizing about &quot;biology,&quot; and &quot;what is gender?&quot; and &quot;what is a woman really?&quot; Something that centers which is freeing trans and discrimination that have historically prevented us from becoming So I know it sounds kind but I personally like the It's short, it's sweet, &quot;define womanhood!&quot; it &quot;What do you mean liberation? &quot;Liberation from what?&quot; And then you can say, Well, I'll tell you! And now you're talking about politics instead of talking about semantics. Isn't that better? I feel like trans culture is just so obsessed with reassuring that we sometimes forget that the end goal of a political movement is That's what we're supposed So instead of asking, &quot;Does J.K. Rowling think we're valid?&quot; Which like, who fucking cares Well, maybe I care a little bit. But instead, why don't we ask, &quot;Is she or is she not an ally Doesn't that just bring Isn't it so much better to have a concrete political project in front of you, instead of sinking into this scholastic gender theology? Trans people are a population of people who have a right to equality, and to freedom from discrimination. We are not an ideology But that's how J.K. Rowling Not as struggle for but as an ideology that &quot;I'm just saying that sex is real.&quot; Is that all you're saying Joanne? (Goldberg Variation 7)) Remember that scene in &quot;Goblet of Fire&quot; in the prefect's bathroom? Moaning Myrtle hey how are you? I wonder if that inspired The bath is actually really nice. It's a lot of milk and a lot of rose oil, epsom salt, just kind of everything that's good in baths all together. I don't wanna talk about bigotry, I wanna talk about baths. Can this just be a video about Oh fine, I'll do my job. On June 10, J.K. Rowling published an essay to her website, which on Twitter she titled &quot;TERF wars,&quot; which was just awarded the for it's brave display of unyielding transphobia, I guess. The essay is several pages reasons for speaking out - [Rowling] I refuse to that I believe is doing demonstrable harm in seeking to erode woman as a political and biological class and like few before it. - Where do I even begin with this one. Well, let's pick some highlights. - [Rowling] Woman is not a costume. Woman is not an idea in a man's head. Woman is not a pink brain, a liking for Jimmy Choos or any of the other sexist ideas now somehow touted as progressive. - Oh, well, my mistake. Here I was thinking I was a woman, turns out I'm just a man What a whimsical misunderstanding! Okay, well that's it everyone, the channel's over. Thanks for the likes and comments, I'm gonna head out to the Jimmy Choo store and then I guess I'll Joanne. (laughs) Joanne, this is madness Joanne. - [Rowling] When you throw and changing rooms to any man who believes or feels he's a woman, and, as I've said, gender may now be granted without any need for surgery or hormones, then you open the door to any and all men who wish to come inside. - So look I understand about about the thought And believe me, I don't with a predator any more than you do. Why are all rose petals on this one side? Some of them need to come over here. Come here. I have (Soviet anthem) Socialist icon. But this talking point that gender change on legal documents will enable predators to enter bathrooms, it doesn't really make sense because gender policing does not involve legal documents. Like when was the last a gender certificate to gain admittance to a public bathroom? This feels like a strangely to be having in pandemic lockdown. Like imagine using a public bathroom. Imagine being in public. I've been reading this book which is about the And there's a section &quot;The Bathroom Problem&quot; which describes how women's bathrooms, - [Halberstam] Tend to operate as an area for the enforcement of gender conformity. - The author, Jack Halberstam, who's assigned female at describes routinely having security called on him for using - [Halberstam] Having in the women's rest room in the lives of many indeed, it is so frequent that one wonders whether the category &quot;woman,&quot; when used to designate public functions, is completely outmoded. Queer literature is to the bathroom problem, and it would not be an a standard feature of the butch narrative. - That's very interesting to me because as a feminine trans woman, I have not once been questioned or had the authorities called on me in a women's public bathroom in the entire time I've been using them, which is several years now. So when Joanne Rowling, a feminine, heterosexual woman calls to protect the lesbians or whatever, it just seems ignorant of the way bathroom Like is she just so famous that she doesn't use and she forgot how they work? How much could one bathroom Michael, ten dollars? Women's bathrooms are policed not chromosomes, and to change that short of in every stall, you know, just to make sure no That's a very good idea, Joanne. That's very good. - [Rowling] Ironically, radical feminists aren't even trans-exclusionary, they include trans men in their feminism, because they were born women. - Isn't it ironic that feminists think that trans men are women? Hello operator? Could you get me Alanis Morissette? I have a new incident to report. So look I could keep refuting which is basically just a series of common transphobic canards we've all heard a hundred times before. But I wanna focus in particular on some passages that I about the psychology of transphobia. What is it about the transgenders that some people feel threatened by? Well, Joanne Rowling gives in answering that question. You know, Joanne being a for trans people but is that the most famous having a public transphobic meltdown is providing a wealth of insight about the interior world of a transphobe. In &quot;TERF Wars&quot; Joanne the trans issue is &quot;intensely personal.&quot; And she has two reasons it's personal. The first is that she thinks that if she'd been a child today, she'd would have been transed. Someone would transed her! You know, people are being transed left and right these days, it's a reasonable thing Trans people we are always on the look out for the next person we can trans, it's all we wanna do, is trans people. I transed four people this morning before I ate breakfast. She thinks that she by The Transsexual Empire, by the dark cabal of endocrinologists. And in support of this speculation, Joanne rehashes a bunch about social contagion and a quote, - [Rowling] 4400% increase for transitioning treatment. - And that sounds pretty alarming, right? 4400%! But you have to keep in only 32 assigned female and by last year that number was 1,740 with the biggest increase you know, the &quot;transgender So that is a big increase but it corresponds to in trans visibility so it does make sense, and there's 11 million children in the UK, so let's say 5.5 million girls, and 1,740 is 0.03% of that, and considering are some kind of transgender, 0.03% of kids is not really an If anything you'd expect it to be higher. But part of Joanne's problem here is that she seems not to really understand what being trans is. - [Rowling] The writings a group of notably The more of their accounts of with their insightful dissociation, eating disorders, self-harm and self-hatred, the more I've wondered whether, if I'd been born 30 years later, I too might have tried to transition. The allure of escaping If I'd found community and sympathy online that I couldn't find in I believe I could have been persuaded to turn myself into the son my father had openly said he'd have preferred.&quot; Fortunately for me, I found and my ambivalence about being a woman, reflected in the work of female writers and musicians who reassured me that, in spite of everything a sexist world tries to it's fine not to feel pink, frilly and compliant inside your own head; it's okay to feel confused, dark, both sexual and non-sexual, unsure of what or who you are. - (exhales) Okay, so, there's a lot to unpack here. And let's start by making a list of things being a transgender man is not: Having anxiety, having dissociation, having an eating disorder, doing self-harm, doing self-hatred, a viable way to make not feeling pink, not feeling frilly, not being compliant, feeling confused, feeling dark, feeling sexual, feeling non-sexual, feeling unsure of who you are. Okay, so you can be a trans man and experience some or but none of these things are Wanting to take testosterone and literally live your life as a man is not the same as the typical struggles other girls go through. Joanne is projecting her own memories of troubled adolescence onto trans men, and then saying, &quot;Oh, clearly &quot;the same things I was, &quot;just, someone persuaded It's a limitation of human empathy that sometimes when we're what someone else is feeling, the best we can do is to And sometimes that's a misrepresentation. Sometimes other people that we've never experienced. So we have to invent explanations about why they're not behaving the way we think they should. &quot;Someone is persuading But this fear-mongering to transition is just not how things work. From the way transphobes talk about it you'd think whenever a picks up a toy truck an endocrinologist pops and says, &quot;We've got a &quot;Standby, I'm gonna trans em!&quot; (laughs) But this is the narrative in particular about young Last year a transphobic that is essentially to what &quot;The Transsexual It's called &quot;Irreversible Damage: &quot;The Transgender Craze Chapter one: &quot;The Contagion.&quot; Jesus. Laying it on a little thick, The argument is that female is an infectious social disease, which is literally the homosexuality but okay, great. I think a major problem of trans issues is that not to transphobia against trans men. Like after the J.K. Rowling story broke, Daniel Radcliffe came out and said, &quot;Transgender women are women,&quot; and that's very nice of him but, a huge section of Joanne's In fact she spends more words on trans men than on any other topic, so I think it's worth looking Something I've noticed is transphobia against trans men is not the same as transphobia There's a lot of similarities, but they're really two and they come from different in the same way that lesbophobia is different from For trans women, I would say the distinctive experience of transphobia is being simultaneously treated as a pornographic female fetish object *and* as a dangerous male predator, the ultimate sex demon, this who will ravish your wife Your polygamous commune will devastated. Whereas I feel like trans masculine people are less vilified, but so infantilized. I guess transphobes so a lot of misogynistic So much for transitioning The story is often that these &quot;vulnerable, confused girls&quot; can't possibly decide for themselves what to do with their bodies, so the courts must Which is exactly what where trans youth under 16 will now need not only the approval of a doctor but will need to seek a court order in order get puberty blockers. And the justification given Joanne's concerns about &quot;teenage girls&quot; being unable In her essay Joanne says: - [Rowling] I happen to transsexual woman who's older Although she's open about I've always found it anything other than a woman. Being older, though, she went through a long and rigorous process of evaluation, psychotherapy and staged transformation. The current explosion of trans activism is urging a removal of through which candidates were once required to pass. - So that's what she wants. She wants &quot;robust systems Which is the same thing just, Joanne is more polite about it. I wanna make a drink. (piano jazz) Sometime people ask me if just drank a lot. Agh, we're revealing leg again The scandal! putting a wet, white chiffon thing over it, Well I'm an extremely chaste woman. I try to honor God with my body that's why I got a sex change. (laughs) I'm honoring God with I'm not drunk enough for this. So I also wanna point out that cis men and cis women are often A lot of cis men are because the thought that a man can become a woman threatens the It's similar to the reason a lot of straight men are homophobic, they feel their own masculinity And of course a lot of to trans women and they threatens their identity as straight men. Back in my comphet days, when I dated men, for a couple straight going down on me was like This is it, Mr. Frodo. If I take one more step, from heterosexual I've ever been. Okay, Samwise. Whatever you need to tell yourself. And then afterwards they go into this whole Cartesian spiral. &quot;What have I done?&quot; &quot;What does this mean?&quot; &quot;Who am I?&quot; I think for a lot of cis women, the very existence of trans men sends them into a similar identity crisis. I think a lot of women have had to fight a really difficult internal battle to make peace with their own womanhood. And for some women, of transgender people seems Like I've noticed in particular that some of the most virulent are older lesbian women on And these women see in make up and dresses and they say, &quot;that is not what being a woman is. &quot;I've had to fight for my own identity &quot;against the idea that &quot;These are just misogynistic stereotypes. &quot;You are a parody of womanhood. &quot;You're a fetishist.&quot; And when they see trans men they say, &quot;you're a traitor. &quot;You're a self-loather. &quot;Why can't you learn to &quot;the way I've had to?&quot; But this is all projection Trans women do not think is what makes us women. And trans men do not think that not feeling pink, frilly, and compliant is what makes them men. These are meanings that J.K. Rowling is assigning to trans people's because she's perceives our lives as some kind of commentary on gender, with an implied ideology to be a man or a woman. But that's your interpretation Joanne, that's a meaning you are imposing on us. Because it seems you have a lot of traumatic gender baggage of your own, and it's interfering with your ability to genuinely empathize with trans people. You know at the end of your essay you say that you never when it comes to trans people. And that's a nice thought, but, until you're actually able to stop seeing trans abstract theory of gender, or as a projection of then you're not really seeing us as distinct individuals with our own experiences and stories. And, since you are a on trans people, sorry, gender issues, I think it would be good if you listened to the experiences of trans men without, for instance, superimposing your own troubled Oh I should probably talk about the book, since I did go to the trouble because, unlike certain other YouTubers, I do in fact know how to read. &quot;Troubled Blood&quot; was by Joanne Rowling under her For someone apparently so concerned about her womanhood being the fact that she publishes it's interesting. It's a choice. God, this thing is huge, it's like the &quot;Infinite Jest&quot; of TERFery. So &quot;Troubled Blood&quot; is a detective novel about the simmering heterosexual tension between two investigators. That's really what Rowling is There's a lot of simmering And a lot of fans who'd like (Schubert, &quot;Standchen&quot;) Hello Daniel. I love you grown up Harry Potter. Let me show you my love. The only way I know how. Is there gonna be discourse about this? If it's wrong to have comphet feelings about Daniel Radcliffe, I don't wanna be right. I will not be shamed for Get out of here Daniel. This is a final farewell Goodbye Daniel! And your little arm too. You stay out of this Glinda! (Meowing Standchen) So the prime suspect in a cross-dressing serial killer who dresses as a woman to whomst he abducts, tortures, Interesting. Now I enjoyed this book, I enjoy books about dangerous perverts. But a lot of trans people, have called this book transphobic. And you might think that's unfair since the character Dennis Creed, this serial killer, he is not trans. He's a cross-dresser. This has nothing to do with trans people. Why so triggered snowflake? Well precious, there's a couple things I think are worth taking One, is that the transvestite or transsexual serial killer It's a cliche that goes back decades. And I take great offense to the suggestion that trans women are serial killers because I for one haven't The trope seems to originate in 1960 with Alfred Hitchcock's &quot;Psycho&quot;, that's just my guess though, I haven't researched this, who do you think I am, Lindsay Ellis? So I don't think &quot;Psycho&quot; is transphobic. The movie ends with a where the psychiatrist offers the pseudo-Freudian explanation that Norman cross-dresses because the personality of his dead mother takes over and out of Norman is attracted to. Therefore, the psychiatrist explains, Norman is not a real transvestite. You're a fake transvestite Norman. Trender alert! But I do think that even if &quot;Psycho&quot; isn't explicitly transphobic, movies can subconsciously implant ideas and feelings into our brains, and I do think it's worth noting that the most famous and in cinema history is of a man in a dress attacking a woman in a bathroom. To quote a popular film critic, you might not have noticed The cross-dressing psycho trope became explicitly transphobic in the campy 1980 Psycho in which Michael Cain plays a transsexual psychiatrist who yes, dresses as a woman to kill - [Psychiatrist] He was a transsexual. - What?&quot; - A transsexual. - You see there's some men and women too think they are born in the wrong body. They're called transsexuals. And all the wanna do is - It's all they wanna do! The transsexuals! &quot;Dressed to Kill&quot; also ends with a psychiatric summing up where the doctor explains is a case of: - Opposite sexes inhabiting the same body. - [Natalie] But it's the because, and I quote. - Elliot's penis became erect and Bobbi took control that made Elliot masculinely sexual. - There's often a misogynistic trope hiding behind the transphobic one. It's the woman in the It's the mother's fault. - His mother was a - The most mature iteration of this trope, the crown jewel of transphobic movies, is of course &quot;The Silence of the Lambs&quot;, which is honestly one because Jodi Foster and Anthony Hopkins are just radiant in it. And also I hate myself. (laughs) &quot;Silence of the Lambs&quot; is an animal lover and innovative seamstress. Buffalo Bill is a transtender -a transtrender!- who out of their skin, because his application was rejected because, - Billy is not a real transsexual. - Hannibal (clap) Lecter (clap) There's so much gatekeeping I just wanna use this opportunity to reassure my trans audience that, even if you've only killed one or two people, you're valid. (laughs) I entertain myself. That's how I continue to struggle onwards. - [Lecter] Billy hates and he thinks that but his pathology is a and more terrifying. - More savage and terrifying Is that even possible? Okay, it's definitely because the sun is rising. &quot;Silence of the Lambs&quot; differs from its male gaze-y predecessors in that it kind of feels like Clarice is a perfect blend of and every man in this movie is a pig. Except maybe Hannibal Lecter, the only one who actually the only real gentleman, with his Goldberg Variations and his sketches of the Duomo. Chilton's a pig, the even Crawford's kind of a pig. The pigs are pigs, Miggs is pigs, and Buffalo Bill is the ultimate pig. Die Uberschwein. That's in the original German. What the fuck I'm I taking about. (laughs) And he's obsessed with death's-head moths, this demonization of the metaphor for gender transformation. &quot;I can't believe I've finally emerged &quot;as a beautiful butterfly.&quot; Show don't tell Lily. Oh my God, I can't wait until trans people have so many rights it's There's a lot to work with. So &quot;Silence of the Lambs&quot; is a good movie, I'm not saying that it's inherently wrong to make a movie or write a book about a transgender serial killer, but there is a real You know, for decades good representation of trans but a whole host of And that has an effect When it comes time to and people are subconsciously that has serious consequences It's getting so bright the sun has risen. (holy music) And it's also not to grow up seeing only of ourselves in media. Like even as late as my early 20s I didn't know any trans people, but I'd seen all these I think the most positive approximation of representation I knew about was like Frank-N-Furter and Divine, and both of them are just, you know, in a fun way! Should have just gotten So I knew back then I but I guess I felt that it was basically the moral equivalent of Not something you tell other people about that's for sure. And things have changed it's a different world for There's trans people now who are 10 years younger than me who don't even hate themselves. Can't relate. So this takes us back to Joanne has written a book about a serial killer who Groundbreaking. Now this is such a cliche that you'd kind of like J.K. Rowling to subvert it somehow. Give us a remix, turn it on it's head, humanize the monster in an unexpected way, you know give her a little or at least do something new with it. But she really doesn't. It's just Buffalo Bill all over again. Now I guess I should I'm reading it on phone, I'm not bring the book out and pretending to read on the book. You can see from my little bookmarks that I read the physical book. Yes, I'm a YouTuber, So here's the psychiatrist- there's always a psychiatrist isn't there? Here's the psychiatrist's - [Psychiatrist] He's a a pure example of the type. He scores very highly on the dark triad: narcissism, Machiavellianism Devious, sadistic, unrepentant and extremely egotistical. - You see, he's what we in the medical profession Quoth Dennis, - [Creed] It excited me, to she was being observed. I'd do it to my sister, windows as well. If I got lucky, I'd see adjusting themselves or I was aroused not only by the obviously sensual aspects, but by the sense of power. I felt I stole something taking that which they - [Narrator] He soon women's underwear from and even from his grandmother, Ena. These he enjoying wearing in secret, and m*sturbating in. - Remember when she wrote books about wizard school? (laughs) Ho ho dear readers! So Dennis Creed is characterized as a narcissistic male And like okay there really are men who fetishize women's I mean Freud talked about where sexuality focuses on a body part or an article of clothing. And Freud theorized that fetishes emerge from the unconscious trauma that occurs when men discover that women don't have a penis, boy have I got news for Dr Freud. (laughs) But considering that Joanne has been doing a lot of gender critical reading over the past few years, it's kind of hard for me to ignore that &quot;narcissistic male is exactly the way a lot of TERFs characterize trans women. Remember, the whole &quot;with concerns about trans youth&quot; routine is obfuscation. These people are bigots. And it's a pretty common that trans women are hyper-sexual, and hyper-aggressive, right, these inherently pornographic sex demons. But can't we just have a Are trans women sex demons? Why yes. Yes we are. The bigots are simply You can't even talk to these people, like how do you engage with I used to take the bait, and argue that no actually unless you want me to be. But it's counterproductive Because. &quot;My 'Not involved has people asking a lot of questions already answered by my shirt.&quot; So I have a hard time believing that the character Dennis Creed has nothing to do with Joanne's beliefs about trans people. And so I also wanna note that Dennis's cross-dressing is described not just as part of he gets from invading women's privacy and invading women's bodies, but also as a deliberate Dennis says, on page 854 so you know I actually - [Creed] In a wig, bit of lipstick they think you're harmless, odd... maybe queer... You're the nice man who's safe. - [Natalie] And earlier he's described as. - [Narrator] Dennis Creed had a genius of misdirection in dressed in the pink coat and sometimes wearing a to a drunk victim, gave his hazy form a feminine appearance just long enough for his large hands to - So this character, sprung cross-dresses as a way to They mistake him for a and that causes them to lower their guard. And this reminds me of allegedly transphobic tweets: - [Forstater] Pronouns are rohypnol: important article by HairyLeggdHarpy. - AKA Vulvamort, (laughs) she who must not be named. Followed by J.K. Rowling - [HairyLeggdHarpy] Pronouns are Rohypnol. - Rohypnol is roofies. And there's a picture of - [HairyLeggdHarpy] They dull your defenses. They change your inhibitions. They're meant to. You've had a lifetime's experience learning to be alert to For good reason. This instinctive response keeps you safe. It's not even a conscious thing. It's like your hairs standing on end. Your subconscious brain is helping you not get eaten by the sabre tooth tiger that your eyes haven't noticed yet. I want to be alert. I want others to be alert. I want people to see the real picture, and I want those instinctive reactions that we feel when something is wrong, to be unblunted, undulled by this cheap but effective psychological trick. I feel like I owe this to myself, and I absolutely owe it to other women. And more than anything, I don't want to play even the tiniest part in grooming them to disregard their natural protective instincts. Those instincts are there for a reason. To keep them safe. They need those instincts And that's why I won't Using Rohypnol on others isn't a courtesy. - Okay. So these are the thoughts of someone who's been hurt. Speaking of which, let's return now to the other reason why J.K. Rowling feels her interest in trans people (Goldberg Variation 7) (meowing &quot;Born This Way&quot;) meow, meow, meow, meow (laughs) I was born this way. Born as a fucking idiot. I made a gin martini It's kind of an Agatha drink. Well I'm a 200 year old witch. That's the plot. Pay Also a martini, what is a martini but an excuse to drink a glass of gin? I should probably, um, or this is gonna go straight Okay, we have to be serious now. In &quot;TERF Wars,&quot; Joanne writes - [Rowling] I've been for over 20 years and about being a domestic abuse On Saturday morning, I read that the Scottish government is proceeding with its controversial gender recognition plans, which will in effect mean that all a man needs to do to become To use a very contemporary Ground down by the relentless attacks from trans activists on social media. I spent much of Saturday in a very dark place inside my head, as memories of a serious sexual assault I suffered in my 20s recurred on a loop. I couldn't shut out those memories and I was finding it and disappointment about the way I believe my government is playing fast and loose with womens and girls' safety. - Okay, so for Joanne, her traumatic experience is psychologically related to her concerns about of trans people, and nasty things about her on Twitter. She feels intensely about this issue because the discourse around it literally triggers her PTSD. In her own words, - [Rowling] The scars left by violence and sexual assault don't disappear, no matter how loved you are, and no matter how much money you've made. My perennial jumpiness is a family joke and even I know it's funny, but I pray my daughters I do for hating sudden loud noises, or finding people behind me when I haven't heard them approaching. - A common symptom of A constant alertness to danger. This is described in a very wise book called &quot;Conflict is Not - [Schulman] The of their ability to protect themselves has been damaged or destroyed. They feel endangered, even if there is no actual danger in the present, because in the past they have experienced profoundly invasive cruelty and they know it is possible. - I wanna respect that having is a real experience of suffering that is not the victim's fault, even in cases when that or politically incorrect. For example, if you got I wouldn't judge if around black teenagers for a while. However, if that jumpiness motivates you to become a campaigner of black neighborhoods, then you're participating and that I will criticize I hope it goes without saying that trans people gaining easier access to legal recognition in Scotland in 2020 is completely unrelated to Joanne Rowling being assaulted by a cis man in the 1990s. This is a non-sequitur. So, it's a little odd to me that while Joanne is self-aware enough to recognize that her hyper-vigilance is the result of trauma, and she's self-aware enough to realize that her hyper-vigilance to the point where she she's somehow not that her fears about trans people are an irrational manifestation And again it's not that I'm and I would be nothing but sympathetic if her feelings about this amounted to simply being triggered by, for example, perceiving someone as male in the women's bathroom. Which is something most Like I've spoken to trans women who are worried they don't pass or who know they don't pass, and who do everything they can to avoid using a public bathroom because they don't wanna So those trans women go through life everyday compromising their own comfort and safety to protect cis women's feelings of comfort and safety. But Joanne's transphobia has so outgrown the scope of an automatic It's become a fixation, for years, to the point where she's about a serial killer who cross-dresses to trick women into being less vigilant. And now the primary political cause she's decided to use her is opposition to trans liberation. And past trauma is just Like if you're against gay marriage because you were traumatized as a child when your father left you're still a homophobe, right? You're not less of a bigot because your bigotry In fact bigotry often Bigotry involves feelings of being threatened or attacked, so it's often rooted in trauma. After the collective trauma of 9/11, Americans felt threatened not just by al-Qaeda but by and this was used and is still being used to justify wars, discrimination, travel bans, hate crimes. Feelings of victimization are often used as And when the target of that aggression is a marginalized group, Now what TERFs say, is that it's actually &quot;the transactivists&quot; who are the real aggressors, - [Nigella] Trans women are men, they're agents of the patriarchy, creepy perverts demanding TERF is a misogynistic slur It's biological women - The real victims. So often in debates on social issues we're faced with two opposing sides both claiming to be the victim. And we're often told to believe victims, believe marginalized people. Well, if it only it was that easy. So often the exact point in question is who is the victim? And who's the oppressor? That book I quoted earlier, describes the way the is used as a justification for cruelty, in situations ranging from to international affairs. - [Schulman] Bullies often as being under attack when they are the ones - Throughout Joanne's essay she frequently represents herself as taking a defiant - [Rowling] Accusations and The trans activists who declare that TERFs need punching and re-educating. Huge numbers of women by the trans activists. - And in her subsequent tweets she frames herself as the - [Rowling] Sometimes a - This witch doesn't burn. This is the new Salem. Women are being attacked online for taking a stand This witch doesn't burn, let's see what else we have for sale at wildwomynworkshop.com? &quot;Fuck your pronouns&quot; &quot;Trans men are my sisters&quot; &quot;Sorry about your dick bro&quot; that's a good one, I'd wear that. &quot;Don't call me cis&quot; Cis is a vile slur against Must be really hard for &quot;War is peace &quot;freedom is slavery &quot;ignorance is strength &quot;trans women are women&quot; God the sense of persecution. This is Orwell's nightmare, this is how Nazi Germany started, first Hitler told the transgenders they were super hecking valid uwu, then he burned their books and wait.. oh, no, that's actually the Slurs, feminist t-shirt, nice Trilby, that's very dapper. Slurs, man-hater, feminazi, prude, witch, bigot. Wait, bigot? Are we reclaiming bigot now? Is bigot a slur used to silence the females? (laughs) Joanne wrote in her essay that she was standing - [Rowling] Women who who've been slurred as bigots for having concerns - Slurred as bigots. There is something so that bigot is a slur. Because so much of indirect bigotry is an attempt to reverse the roles of victim and aggressor. &quot;Isn't calling people That's good, that's very clever. A white racist will hardly ever use the phrase &quot;white supremacy.&quot; No, they say, &quot;White genocide.&quot; Always on the defensive. And now transphobes are The same conservative media who 10 years ago were portraying lesbians as like, angry, mannish d*kes, have now created this as these virginal damsels in distress who are threatened with On one front by the dark who are somehow coercing Elliot no you can't possibly be doing this because you're 33 years old and capable of autonomous thought, clearly you were tricked by the transgender And on the other front by are &quot;slurring as bigots&quot; lesbians who won't sleep with them. Joanne claims that - [Rowling] None of the I've talked to hates trans people; on the contrary. Many of them became in the first place out of and they're hugely sympathetic towards trans adults who simply - But the only gender critical women she mentions by name are Maya Forstater, who I would not describe as &quot;hugely sympathetic&quot; to trans adults and Magdalen Berns, - [Rowling] Magdalen young feminist and lesbian. Magdalen was a great believer in the importance of biological sex, and didn't believe lesbians for not dating trans women with penises. - Okay, so I agree that it would be awful to call someone a bigot just because they don't want But are you sure that's why people call Magdalen Berns a bigot? Are you sure she hasn't said anything else about trans women that she's less than &quot;hugely sympathetic&quot;? - [Berns] You are You aren't women. You're men who get sexual kicks from being treated like women. Fuck you and your dirty Our oppression isn't a fetish you pathetic, sick, fuck. - &quot;Hugely sympathetic.&quot; &quot;Hugely sympathetic.&quot; Because Joanne claims TERFs to trans people and just don't and because she constantly frames herself as the victim of who say mean things online, I think it's fair for me to mention that this, right here, is how and spoken about, by TERFs. When you're a trans woman online, TERFs pin you to the vivisection table. They deadname and misgender you, they mock your genitals, they describe your surgery results as necrotic mutilated wounds, they interpret your every as the manifestation of a You know, in an unrelated video last year I mentioned being sexually And I've since been told - [Nigella] Trans-identified males get sexual kicks from Nathan probably enjoyed - &quot;Hugely sympathetic.&quot; I hope I don't even need that trans women can't be raped, because we'll just enjoy it is a violently anti-feminist thought. And it's a thought that and believed in the name by people who have spent days and weeks absorbing the dehumanizing propaganda that TERF forums exist to promote. Now, I think if Joanne Rowling was in the room with &quot;I'm so sorry you've &quot;But I too have been cruelly victimized &quot;online by the transactivists.&quot; And you know what? I'm sure that's true. When I listen to Joanne talk about being victimized by trans Twitter, it's easy for me to sympathize, because trans Twitter has the vilification, the obsession, It's a pretty common occurrence for me to look at my mentions and see people with trans flag - [Tweeter] point of view, is gonna beat you to - #YesAllGamers Uh, here's a tread an anti-semite because three years ago I made a joke about reptilian overlords and then they get mad because I said I wanted to understand non-binary people instead of just dogmatically and they conclude. - [Tweeter] So basically; I want to bash her over the god damn head with a metal bat over and over again. - So this is the level of antipathy that I attract from trans Twitter. So when Joanne says she's been overwhelmed by abusive messages I'm I'm sure her mentions are overwhelmed with anime avatars saying things like. - [Tweeter] J.K. Rowling who literally wants Harry Potter was always neoliberal garbage and we should've seen this coming. This dumb bitch deserves our empathy she deserves a backhand slap to the face. - And tweets like that are abusive. It's not okay, and I don't I wanna make a dark and stormy, (laughs) sorry, I will be right back. Okay I am back! It's good. So I also think that there is I have to put the drink down You can't, you cannot talk about misogynistic while holding a tropical drink. It's not possible to do So I agree there really is an Misogyny is the most universal prejudice and trans people are not immune. Angry Twitter mobs are regardless of whether There is a witch hunt impulse that's still alive in our culture. To be a famous woman is to constantly have and soul subjected to endless critique. You know, if you're one pound overweight they call you fatty. If you're one pound underweight they say you have an eating disorder. And if you're exactly the right weight? They call you a fatty with It's a kind of crowd-sourced abuse. There's a reason Taylor Swift is obsessed with her haters. When you're a famous woman, it's hard not to be because the haters bring But it's important to remember that haters are not the same as bigots. Being mean or rude or even unless it's tied to a or a backlash against So no, Mike Huckabee, And no, David Silverman, the word racist is not like the n-word. And no, Joanne Rowling, TERF is not a slur, and being canceled on Twitter but it's not a form of oppression. And I say this as someone at this point most known for complaining about cancel culture. Oh, God is this my legacy? A lot of trans people have been very mean, verbally abusive even, But most people criticizing Joanne, or criticizing me for that matter, might be hurt and angry, But when you're receiving hundreds or thousands of messages full of hurt and anger and hate, you experience it as one crashing over you all at once. And that 0.1% of messages that really are violent, they become emblematic of the way the whole experience feels. And if you've been the the experience can be pretty triggering. So it's just not always and the abuser. Sometimes victims are also abusers, sometimes abusers have a sometimes righteously angry people cross a line into abusive excess. And not all abuse comes Why are so many trans people on Twitter so easily driven to extremes Well there's a passage in that I think applies just as well to trans Twitter as it does to TERFs. - [Schulman] People living often behave in very similar ways to the people who traumatized them. Over and over I have refuse to hear or engage information that would alter their self-concepts, even in ways that could bring them more happiness and integrity. The undiscovered is rooted in a panic cannot bear interrogation; that whatever is keeping them together is not flexible. Perhaps because supremacy in some produces trauma in others, they can become mirror images. And of course, many perpetrators were or are victims themselves. - A lot of TERFs have been And they misdirect some at trans people, a vulnerable group who they can mostly get away with hurting. Unlike standing up to powerful men, right, which would be dangerous and difficult. And a lot of trans people have been very horribly by strangers on the street, And for some of those trans people, canceling celebrities on Twitter is the one kind of power they have. Plus a lot of extremely really don't have a in their own identity. Which is why they need to prop them up. They need to constantly be that they really are the And if someone even obliquely threatens or questions their fragile self-concept they lash out, Twitter You know, Joanne, you say that all you're asking, all you want, is empathy and understanding, and I've tried to extend But trans people also deserve more empathy and understanding than you've given them. Sometime you should look at some of these Twitter accounts that are always raging against you and raging against me for that matter. In between the raging, They're begging. Begging for money to pay for healthcare, begging for money to pay for housing. You are worth hundreds of or pounds, or Gringotts, or whatever you people have. And trans people are out here literally begging for healthcare. They're begging Joanne! How powerful could the Joanne you have so much many, many times more than what I have. And I have much more power and influence than most trans people. You know, I am in a than most trans people. I have a lot of other things But a lot of them have nothing. They have nothing, Joanne. And I just think you should take that into consideration next time you decide to speak out about how transactivists are oppressing you. (laughs) Get it together gorg. Are you listening to yourself? What are you doing Joanne? You know, lot of trans people have gone through life being rejected and humiliated and excluded So they're traumatized, by anything that reminds them of past betrayal and abandonment, which is something I think Joanne you are famous for writing a book about a neglected and abused boy who lives in a closet to a magical world where he and his freaky friends find acceptance in each other. - [Hagrid] I remember biggest bunch of misfits - [Ron] We're still a bunch of misfits. - [Hagrid] well maybe, but - So many trans people have and an escape from a world that doesn't offer a lot So for you to use your fame and influence to rally the backlash it feels like a betrayal And I don't blame them I feel it too. So Joanne. Jo. Mother. I'm sorry about the Twitter mob, I know how much that sucks, so if you ever wanna take me up on it I'll buy you a drink But otherwise I think we're done here. As a trans person I like to believe in the But, I realize that at this point you're being constantly and constantly trashed by trans people, so it would be pretty difficult to change tracks at this point. You'd be one in a million And I don't know Joanne, maybe I mean you wrote &quot;The Prisoner of Azkaban&quot; and that shit got me through fifth grade, so who knows, maybe you But I'm too old to believe in magic now so, I'm not gonna sit around waiting for a letter Okay. I guess that's it. Mischief managed. (Goldberg Variation 1) (Goldberg Variation 2)