- I tell ya, I can't relax, you know? The other night I was in a place I felt like having a few drinks. I went over to the bartender. I said, &quot;Surprise me.&quot; He showed me a naked picture of my wife. (audience laughing) I'll tell you the truth, my - No, no. we can't stop laughing, you know? (audience laughing) I got no sex life. 10 years ago my wife put me on hold. (audience laughing) My old man, he didn't We used to play tag and he'd drive. (audience laughing) I mean, it's not easy being me. When I was born, the &quot;I did all I could, but (audience laughing) I mean, and nobody was nice. My mother never breastfed me. She told me she liked me as a friend. (audience laughing) When I was born, after he hung himself. And I tell ya, I can't relax, you know? My dog drives me nuts. My dog, he wants me to mate him. I wouldn't mate him. Let him go through what I go through. (audience laughing) I mean, last week was Last week I looked up my family tree. Two dogs were using it. Well, I tell ya, my wife One night she went out, I said, &quot;Did you see what he looked like?&quot; She told me she got the (audience laughing) Oh, my wife. Oh, one night she told I took her to a drive-in movie. I spent the whole night trying to find out what car she was in. This afternoon my wife Was out driving and she told and I tell ya the letter she made, (audience laughing) you'll never find in the alphabet. Oh, he's a strange doctor. - Oh, you kidding? I asked if my heart was He told me, &quot;Not if I join in,&quot; you know? I tell ya my trouble, You know my doctor. Dr. Vinnie Boombatz, know my doctor? What a doctor- What a doctor. Why, I called him last week. I told him, &quot;Doc, I swallowed He told me to have a few (audience laughing) - Life's not easy. - Not easy. They're all mixed up, you kidding? - You really think so, huh? - My proctologist used - Yeah? - Yeah, he took X-rays. He told me to bend over and say, &quot;Cheese.&quot; I mean, I don't get him at all. Low, low, Johnny, you kidding? I told my wife, &quot;I want to die in bed.&quot; She said, &quot;Again?&quot; You know, I'm getting older. I'm not a kid anymore. I know I'm getting old. In Vegas I played a slot machine. Three prunes came up. I know I'm getting old. I'm at the age now, if I I figure it's number one (audience laughing) I tell ya, I don't get I joined Gamblers Anonymous. They gave me two to one I don't make it. (audience laughing) Oh boy, the other night in Las Vegas, I tell ya, I don't know what I'm doing. I played dice, I lost 1,000 bucks. I got even though. I stole 400 Sweet'N Lows. This afternoon my wife started in again. Yeah, she keeps throwing I went broke playing the I tell ya, Las Vegas, they got slot machines all I went in to buy a container of milk. Cost me $238. My old man, he didn't help either. The time I was kidnapped they sent back a piece of my finger. He said he wanted more proof. Are you kidding? I know I'm ugly. I stuck my head out the window, (audience laughing) I know I'm ugly. I went to a freak show. They let me in for nothing. And I was an ugly kid, too. - [Audience Member] How ugly? (audience laughing) I was so ugly my mother And my wife can't do nothing right. She can't cook. The worst cook in the world. Gave my kid alphabet (audience laughing) What a lousy cook. I mean, how can toast have bones? (audience laughing) She's a lousy cook, too. She can't cook at all. I leave dental floss in the kitchen. The roaches hang themselves. I live in New York on Rough neighborhood, rough. I tell ya, I live in the only neighborhood when I plan my budget I (audience laughing) What a neighborhood. Well, the first day I I said, &quot;How long a walk to the subway?&quot; He said, &quot;I don't know, so (audience laughing) No, it's a rough building, I tell ya, nothing but rough. Every night is robberies, Nothing but robberies in my I mean, every time I close a I tell ya, I tell ya, folks, with You know, I can't lose any weight. When I tried jogging, I keep I was so fat when I got my shoe shined I had to take the guy's word for it. I mean, I was fat, I'll tell you that. Doctors say all kind of exercise is great. You burn up energy, you lose calories. - Right, sure. - Like doctor said, &quot;When a he burns up energy, he I made love to a girl I lost 150 calories, my (audience laughing) I mean, the last time I made love to my wife it was ridiculous. (audience laughing) I looked at her, I said, Can't you think of anyone either?&quot; (audience laughing) Are you kidding? I know my wife cheats on me. Every time I come home the parrot says, &quot;Quick, out the window,&quot; you know? (audience laughing) My sex life is nothing. My wife cut me out to once a month. Cut me down to once a month. Oh, I'm lucky. Two guys I know she cut out completely. (audience laughing) My old man, he didn't help either. Kept taking me to the zoo. He said he was hoping my And my kids, they don't help either. The other day I told my kid, I said, &quot;Someday you'll have He said, &quot;So will you.&quot; Real smart kid I got. The other day I told him He told me about my wife and the butcher. (audience laughing) I tell ya, I can't relax. My kid drives me nuts. The other day I told him, You don't have it upstairs.&quot; He told me I'm old, I (audience laughing) And this girl was no bargain either. She was fat, whew. - [Man] How fat? (audience laughing) When she wears high heels She's fat- She was fat. - Ooh, remember how we met? I hit her with my car. She said, &quot;Why didn't you go around me?&quot; I told her I didn't Fat. - Well, I met her at the Macy's Parade. She was wearing ropes. I always wondered how the first time she took the test. I found out the inspector said he wouldn't go through that again. (audience laughing) The last time my wife drove the car, she cracked it up, went into a tree. She told me it wasn't her fault. She blew the horn. I mean, are you kidding? Oh, my mother had morning I don't know, it's not easy. I got no respect the day I was born. - [Johnny] Really? The doctor picked me up and smacked me. I found out the nurse, she (audience laughing) Now with gambling, I'm never lucky. Well, last week at the track they killed my horse. I mean, I'm getting old. I'm not a kid anymore. I know I'm getting old. In Vegas I played a slot machine. Three prunes came up. I mean, people look at me they figure I'm the type of guy I get drunk And they're wrong. I get high first. Then I get drunk and go to the My old man, he didn't He carried around a picture of the kid who came with the wallet. (audience laughing) I mean, are you kidding? My old man never liked me. When he took me hunting he gave me a three-minute head start. (audience laughing) And on the way home he put the deer in the car. Oh, I'm not a kid. I'm getting older, Johnny. I'm getting old, are you kidding? I took a vacation, went to Mexico. I got the walks. Oh, are you kidding? My age, to me the daily double (audience laughing) My last birthday cake, I The heat drove me back. I'm ugly, I'm telling you. My proctologist, he stuck (audience laughing) This girl was fat and ugly. Ooh, was she ugly. - How ugly? I took her to the beach. They asked me what I used for bait. (audience laughing) An ugly chick, you kidding? When I took her home, my mother I mean, ugly. I gave her a hickey. I got fur in my mouth- She's, boy... Nah, I tell ya, my wife, with eating there's always problems. She's a strict vegetarian. In fact, when I met her she (audience laughing) I mean, she can't cook at all. She made chocolate mousse. An antler got stuck in my throat. I tell ya one thing, though. When I have sex with my As soon as I get in bed, she disappears. But I tell ya one thing. When my wife does have sex she screams. Ooh, especially when I walk in on her. Ooh, forget about it, what do you do? Oh, the other night she wearing a see-through negligee. The only trouble is, she was coming home. (audience laughing) I tell ya, I can't take it no more. This afternoon I said to &quot;When you grow up, what And she looked at my wife. She said, &quot;Single.&quot; Well, the other day I called my house. My boy answered the phone. I said to him, &quot;Let me talk to Mommy.&quot; I heard the kid say, &quot;Mommy, it's Daddy. Are you home?&quot; I don't get no respect from anyone. Well, last Christmas I gave him a BB gun. He gave me a sweatshirt with I tell ya, nice to hear your laughter. I tell ya, that really is nice 'cause where I live there's I live in a bad neighborhood. Just last week a guy pulled a knife on me. I could see it wasn't a There was butter on it. But I tell ya, Dean, since I lived in this neighborhood Just once, you know? But the strange thing, the guy who attacked me, he had class. Yeah, he used an electric razor. (audience laughing) You know, actually I blame myself. I was standing right next to an outlet. (audience laughing) Oh, this guy must be crazy, He took my watch, he took my wallet, and he took a little off the sides. (audience laughing) My wife, I got no sex life. The dog keeps watching me in the bedroom, wants to learn how to beg. I told him to watch my wife to learn how to roll over and play dead. (audience laughing) I tell ya, it's tough to stay married. And my wife, how do you think I feel? She'll kiss the dog on the lips and she won't drink from my glass. I tell ya, I'm sorry. I was a little late getting here tonight. You know, my dog, he I mean, I got a dog, he Like the other night he started trouble. He went over to the front I run over, I open the front door. The dog don't wanna go out. He wanted me to leave. I was talking to my doctor. You know my doctor, Dr. Vinnie Boombatz. You know my doctor? Well, he told me last week in his office he got six cases of VD. I mean, he's all right now, you know. And my doctor, he don't help either. He told me to run five I called him up, I said, &quot;Doc, (audience laughing) I'll tell you about trouble, You know my doctor, Dr. Vinnie Boombatz. You know my doctor? What a doctor, are you kidding? What a doctor. I called him up, I told He put me on hold. Well, they say when watch our for the other guy. I tell ya, when my wife is driving, you don't have to worry I mean, she'll get 'em. When my wife took her She got 18 out of 20. Yeah, two guys jumped out of the way. I remember things when The time I asked my old He told me I was brought by a crow. My old man, he didn't help either. The time I asked my old man, &quot;How can I get my kite in the air?&quot; He told me to run off a cliff. I tell ya, when I was I told my old man, &quot;You He said, &quot;If they want you, (audience laughing) One girl, she was so a card came out said, But I'm talking about a fat - [Johnny] Big girl, big lady, big. - Big girl, are you kidding? She was standing alone. A cop told her to break it up, you know? Well, I tell ya, last week was a rough I saw my kid and the milkman going to a father and son dinner. (audience laughing) I tell ya, my kid, he drives me nuts. He put Krazy Glue with my Preparation H. (audience laughing) I tell ya, what's more You gotta have love. - And I got plenty of love - That's the main thing, love. I love sports, I love (audience laughing) Well, I know I'm getting old. If I squeeze into a parking Are you kidding? I'm not a kid anymore, I'm getting old. - [Johnny] Yeah. when my last birthday cake (audience laughing) You know how it is, you know. I know I'm getting old. At my age, I want too If I fall asleep, they (audience laughing) And my wife, I got no sex life either. In my house, you put the (audience laughing) Are you kidding, I know I'm ugly. My dog found out we look alike. He killed himself. My wife, she can't cook either. My house, we pray after we eat. (audience laughing) What a lousy cook. I don't think meatloaf (audience laughing) I mean, and she can't cook at all. My backyard, the flies chipped (audience laughing) And I was an ugly kid, too. I had plenty of pimples. One day I feel asleep in the library. I woke up, a blind man Are you kidding? I know I'm ugly. Halloween I open the front (audience laughing) When I was a kid my old man, The time I asked my old man if I can go ice skating on a lake he told me to wait till it gets warmer. My neighborhood, there's I went out, I bought a waterbed. There was a guy at the bottom of it. (audience laughing) Oh, my neighborhood's rough, Why, in my neighborhood Drive fast, the life you (audience laughing) And you know my doctor, Know my doctor? I gotta a, really, what a doctor. He's really mixed up. He grabbed my knee and told me to cough. He'd hit me in the balls with a hammer. (audience laughing) Oh, one time I saw him he He told me to take 'em whenever I wake up. (audience laughing) Okay, and my problem is, Way too much. - I gave my doctor a urine specimen. There was an olive in it. And my dog, too, she gives me trouble. - [Johnny] Your dog? I got a female dog, you know? I tried to mate her. She wants 50 biscuits. And I tell ya, I got a We call him Egypt. Every room, he leaves a pyramid. (audience laughing) Smoking, that's another one. Try to stop smoking, that's a beauty, huh? Why with cigarettes, my wife and I, we made a deal, my wife and I. We only smoke after sex. I got the same pack now (audience laughing) What bothers me is my wife. She's up to three packs a day.