[Music] all right I have my series of geeky guitar I'm scared. no there's nothing to be scared of. time. what advice would the experienced player you I I would suggest to go buy the guitar with with first guitar, you know, you should not spend guitar and you can buy something, you know, by the cardboard guitar. you will not appreciate the guitar inspires you. if you have a a very turn you off. which is better, learning on a learning on a guitar that feels easy to play? are many. I would recommend, you know, a guitar the notes buzz. it's very important the size. if buy a big guitar. you know if you're serious, you will face. because when you learn an instrument, exercising. is not going to come there's no magic is telling you to do and do it. what is your like self-promoting but I really love the guitar D'Agostino signature model made by Godin guitars. because the width of the neck is wider. It's also the way they created the bracing inside, for 3 years with the University of Montreal the frequencies. so it's an instrument that works system here is a system um created by LR Baggs. works beautifully. is it a single jack Peppino? yeah, and inside there's a transducer but also a of two different elements and you can regulate and you can do that or if you prefer the pickup notice is that the head stock is thin, so the the because I use different open tunings, this seems than other guitars that have a a wider headstock. the the way it looks too. the guitar has been I developed this guitar with Robert Godin and now ago. and actually they're coming up with a student 30 years of collaboration with them. so it will approached me years ago, they asked me what do that sounds good. I want an instrument that is impressive. it's impressive and they were able spruce, and mahogany. some of them, they they grow the fretboard is is a material called Richlite. ebony. so these people found a way to build want this guitar to, you know, to be hanged by a to be $20,000. I really want an instrument that cutway you know it's easier to reach higher notes all the different details. I believe this length is that, and I assume that's because of your you know I like to use occasionally the dusty you're right. what's the lowest you bring your low with that in mind, tell me about the string gauges 011 and 052 with everything in between. so it's and I use Dunlop, which is a company not far from develop these strings. and so it's the the light use 80/20? it's a string that has a brightness, bass. and doesn't have any additional material, are coated strings that last longer. even though experiments, nowadays I really think that a a bronze 80/20, and I I also have to say that I put new strings. how much in advance of the minutes before the show sometimes just 10 minutes of changing the strings. I stretch them after of the um you know the external strings. I will and then you don't have any residual little spiky this area. but look I can do it no problem, to use coated strings because so many of them are sound yeah they have to sound at least you know interesting to me because um the 80/20 has what to be a little scooped. and when you do phosphor phosphor bronze has a sort of jangly mid-range much, so that's my thing. that's probably the same know because I started with those, yeah, so you well and you know if you think back to those Leo yeah. know anyway why do you play steel strings? musicians and you you know all these different long time ago playing Renbourn, John Renbourn's player like Leo and Peter Lang, so there's a kind when I play with classical musicians, you know, string is reminiscent of the harpsichord. so Concerto in D major. and I played the continuo, [Music] and it is complimentary, people have called you acoustic. that's quite an honor to be called play a little bit of nylon strings, but they do you switch guitars and why why would you put well actually I don't. I don't. I mean, I own teach, um or I do a soundtrack, I use this guitar. you are man. yeah, really I've been with them guitars out there, you know, but it just I feel know I just like it. talk to me about the position when you have a strap on, that guitar is high whatever you call that, basically it's a device regulate the, you know, the height here, there's a how is attached to the guitar. and raises the simply because, you know, if I I'm in this just the gravity force takes you here. it's very yeah. it's probably because I play with classical size guitar, have it on your right knee, instead guitar, you have the guitar here in the center. surprised I don't see more classical musicians someone said, if you can play three chord the way through smoothly, you're ahead of the vast guitarist, and all the people at that campfire can't do it admires the one who can, right? yeah. emphasize all those elements like the groove. they just want to play the chord, but they have and play even simple stuff as you said, you know, my foot is bouncing up and down. yeah the strum and I feel like that's one of the gifts I you can do that will that will immediately make including yourself. right. as a player and it's little bit of just understanding how you can push but what a difference it makes. I have to ask you do. I do. I do. so when you tour, do you just I don't even bring this guitar. cuz this guitar, fly to Europe, and there's guitars there. so I nice. and so you know, I just have a guitar there and no, I've done that too long, you know, I'm you know. so okay so yeah this is the capo so this is as a little wheel and then you put that I use, and the other one is this one, that can move it. so you can move it to different [Music] yeah I love when you can raise you know the interesting cuz here you are -- Capo at the 5th, I don't know. it is! oh it is, perfect! yeah the blind harpist O'Carrolan. and it's nice Robin Bullock, b u l l o c k, and I learned that YouTube and I came cuz it's beautiful. it's a well without the capo, it would be C G C G C D. oh I love Irish music that... you know having the little hammer-on on the second fret, and suddenly it's like the the minute you did it, I was in easy? you know almost. it's beautiful. this there are certain characteristics, you know is that certain syncopated rhythms, you know that you know it's uh there's beauty, as I said, that you've been able to develop an identity as that that is able to acknowledge Brazilian and everything else. and I do hear it all, by the little moments where I'm immediately aware of gentle way that you have of moving from, I'll call I don't know. I don't know if I know of any constructing a composition in terms of the way beautiful. oh that's a very nice compliment, thank I wrote a book about flat-picking guitar uh in the to play you know a lot of you know flat-picking 2024, I'll be uh working with two of the top flat in Sicily with Bryan Sutton and Chris Eldridge. he's on thousands of records. he won a Grammy forward to spend time with him in Sicily and it's going to be fun. that will be beautiful and but you know the thing about Chris that amazes level right? II've watched him take a song and interpretation right? but then he can play with are just Jazz-influenced, I would say you know then he can play with Julian Lage, and the two of &quot;egghead land&quot; as far as guitarists. so you're blow your mind as much as Bryan by the time you're the workshop is sold out. but we will do it again maybe again in 2025. you're the only guitarist right hand when you're picking when you're finger this nail here is just to clean my ear. no I'm acrylic nails, you know, for these fingers. so I clearly when you use a steel string you break your will break the nails if you... Do you bring a road and your nail salon is not, your your nail a place where they do acrylic nails, which is remember one time I was in Switzerland, and I was find a place I had to drive for you know 60 km to not as popular as in US. here, you know, there's is not. before I go to Europe, I make sure that I my nails so they last at least a month and a half interviewed Mark Vickness, who's another finger about his nails and he does have a kit that he similarly he carries a kit with him. he has does to repair his nails. I have to check it out. on tour but you're just in a, let's say, a quiet do you pick up the guitar? every day. every day. right now I'm learning three or four new pieces sometimes 3, 4, 5 hours. it depends. you know, of the guitar.&quot; what do you feel you still have melodies really. maybe because I'm Italian. so are people like the legend, my dear friend Sergio and rhythm. I'd like to explore more harmonies cuz chords together. if you think about, you know, the you know simple chords, but the melody that they plus you know the also some of their songs, the those chords that you didn't expect. uh that's related to harmony. I hope to develop that that I write are you know, also more interesting know clearly there's so much to learn as far as you know the 3/4, 4/4, 2/4 you know we know those. and and also with uh odd time signatures, you that will be my efforts in the upcoming years, and harmonies. there was a interview with Cat as Yusuf/Cat Stevens, and he was talking about how lot from Greek music when he was growing up. yeah .and and he would bring a piece like Rubylove, his second guitarist just couldn't feel it you here. or Paul Samwell-Smith his producer would thing. like what is this you know? and but then the day and do it incredibly well you know. but that cuts through that becomes relatively popular, you don't hear it often but sometimes you doing more with odd meters and just see what you 7/8. love it. I've done it. there's a piece called Alfredo Morabito which is in uh 7/8 then I build like to do what I call a Stream of Consciousness two words, and I want you to tell me the it's almost like a Rohrshach test. like a or just a preference maybe preference written or improvised? both. perfect. acoustic or I'm glad to hear you say that. English lead? Rhythm. what made you say Rhythm? because you know? if you don't have the groove, everything nothing. you know the the greatest, you know, groove. so if I have to choose between the simple or complex? both, both. people relate to something in between. you know I will choose transcendent? probably the first. to really create it requires a lot of years of uh putting your feet styles. Guitar Player (magazine) actually years the 50 transcendental guitarists, and I'm one to be mentioned in that category. I think - transcending any styles and trying to do it something to aspire, maybe you cannot achieve