In this video I'm going to be going from a level one noob all the way to a max level pro as a sword main and I'm going to be collecting every sword in the game. But before we get into the video, it would be greatly appreciated if you could like the video and subscribe because I'm trying to hit a million subscribers by the end of next year and it's only possible if you subscribe right now. Alright, I'm going to start out by gifting myself a couple of things such as two times drop chance, two times money, two times mastery, and last but not least, 24 hours of two times xp. Alright, I the first sword that I'm gonna want to get is gonna be the katana, but it's a $1,000 so I will have to do a few quests without a sword. There we go. There's one quest and because of the two times money we already have enough for the katana. There we go. Our first sword. Let me put some stats into sword and also summon to melee so I have energy. This sword is way better than combat starting out. Please don't get mad at me in the comments. So this is actually a pretty good sword to have. You can see I'm absolutely shredding through these bandits with the worst sword in the game. There we go. We're level ten. We can move on to the jungle and because we don't have a fruit we can just swim over there. And don't worry, I'll come back for the Cutlass later. Alright, let's get the monkey's quest now. These guys should also be pretty easy as long as I just stay away and don't get hit. There we go. Three down. And we completed our first quest. We can already move on to the gorillas. Now the gorillas start to do actual damage, so they might be a little bit challenging. Actually, no, because NPC's in this game are stupid and way too easy to avoid. Okay, I say that and I'm on four gp, so I kind of need to like see, there we go. This is. This is what I'm talking about. There we go. The first four are dead. There we go. And we also unlock the next move on Katana. We can take on the Gorilla king now. Now this shouldn't be a challenge because for some reason the. Excuse me, for some reason the katana is insanely op. I honestly don't understand why it's so good. Yeah, we're just gonna hit him and dash away and then run away once he does the move, which is right now. Yep. He can't even hit me when I'm right up close. Okay, nevermind. He can. Oh my gosh. I think that's the first time I've died to gorilla king in so long. There we go. Alright, and now we just need one more level until we can leave this island. I'll just do a monkey quest so that it's easier. There we go. Alright, let's go to the pirate village. Now, I think that there's two swords that I need to buy here, which are the dual katana and the Iron mace. So we actually have enough for the dual katana, so I'm gonna buy that now. There we go. We'll equip it. The dual katana is absolutely insane for how early you get it. Ever since they reworked all the early game swords, the early game swords have just become so good. So yeah, I think this move is also projectile. Yeah, I'm just gonna stick with the clicks for now because I don't wanna send the pirates like across the world and then have it explode. Look at all that mastery we're getting. All right, one more level and we'll be able to kill the brutes. There we go. How much is the Iron mace? 30,000. Oh, it's only 25,000. Okay, I'll buy that once I mastery level 30 on dual katana because I want to get the next move. I hate killing the brute so much. There we go. Alright, I want to use the tornado first. I think you literally just create a tornado around you, right? Yeah, that's a pretty good move for grinding. It doesn't do a lot of knockback, which makes it really good. Alright, let me get the Iron mace. Now from what I remember, it's actually worse than the dual katanas. But you know, I'm collecting every sword so I might as well get it now. Once I get $40,000, I'll probably go roll a fruit. Not because I'm gonna use the fruit, but because if I get an elemental it'll make it a lot easier to grind with swords. So yeah, every three clicks the sword has a huge explosion which knocks them back super far, which is not that great for grinding. Let me see what Mace smash does. Is that just okay? I mean, that's kind of good. I mean, honestly, I'd say that the dual katana and the Iron mace are about the same in terms of how good they are for grinding because the Iron Mace just does so much damage. Alright, one more brutes quest and we'll be able to kill Bobby. Oh, come on. My Internet, dude. This always happens. Oh my lord. Okay, one like on this video equals one more Internet for me, please. Like the video. I need the Internet. Alright, there we go. Let's take on Bobby now. Get over here, Bobby. The Iron mace is actually so good for killing bosses because of the giant explosion. Even if you aren't hitting them directly. Like, it's just, it's just I can't speak. It's just so good. Bro thinks he's hitting anybody with that. He's just getting tossed around. Oh my gosh. Oh, all right, man. I'm not letting that slide. Get out of here. We can go to the desert now. Before I go to the desert though, I'm gonna roll a fruit. Alright, come on, zealous. Please give me an elemental. I wouldn't complain if I got Buddha though. Okay, that is garbage. I'm just gonna store it. I don't want to eat it because then I won't be able to swim anymore. Alright, let's go to the desert now. Alright. I don't think there's any deserts. I don't think there's any deserts here really. What I meant was I don't think there's any sword dealers here. So yeah, we're just gonna be grinding. Okay. This sword is so annoying. I guess it's kind of nice, but I don't really like it, honestly. I'm definitely gonna switch back to the dual katana after I test out. Killer combo. Now, I think killer combo can only hit one enemy, which just makes it bad. But, uh, let's see. Oh, okay. I wouldn't call that a combo. I'd call that maybe swing your mace around and then hit the ground. But that does seem to hit multiple enemies. Okay, wait, let's see. Oh, okay. You hit the enemies when you swing it. Okay. That's actually a good move. Wait, Iron Mace actually might have been redeemed by that move because that, that's just insane damage. Okay. I'm actually gonna keep using Iron mace. Oh, we just unlocked the quest for the next officers. The next officer? I. I just can't speak right now. The next brandit. What is a brandit? We unlocked the next quest for the desert officers. Why was that so hard? I honestly have no idea. Okay. Anyway, I'm gonna go kill the desert officers because they give like double the xp. Well, it's not double. I think it's like 20,000 more, which is a lot. Okay. Not sure how good this sword will be though. Because of all the knockback and how small this island is. Okay. The iron mace sucks for killing the desert officers. I'm switching back to the triple katana. The double katana. The dual katana? Yeah. Cause with the dual katanas it's a lot easier to just not get hit entirely. We can go to the frozen village now. Alright, first I'm gonna buy air jump and I'm also gonna buy aura. There we go. So there's a sword dealer here as well, and he sells the triple katana and the pipe. I remember using the pipe back before they reworked all the early game swords and back then it was pretty good. And then there's triple katana. So I think I'm gonna buy the triple katana first because it's the cheapest and yeah, we'll start killing the snow bandits. Okay, this is not it. The stupid third click makes you dash forward, which is so bad for like evading them because you just dash right into them. This is terrible. Yeah, this is unusable. Okay, welcome back to the duel katanas. Hopefully the pipe will be better once we get it. Alright, we unlocked the quest for the snowman and we can buy the pipe now. Alright, so the first move is pipe ignition. And I think this only hits one enemy. Yeah, okay, but I don't care about that cause I'm mainly gonna be using the m one s also. What am I doing? I need the quest now. The pipe does way more damage on the m one s and yeah, it just seems to be like better. I'm sure Dragon blast will hit multiple enemies as well. I know that saw can spawn in and if you kill him there's a chance to get his sword. But I honestly don't know, like when he spawns in because I've been in the server for so long. Let me look on the wiki. Okay. He spawns for every 15 minutes at the Middletown. Every hour and 15 minutes. So he'll spawn in soon. Then we unlock the quest for the yeti. Alright, it's time to absolutely destroy him because he's stupid and he can't hit me. Getting some good damage in. He's gonna use his move. Oh, okay. He one shots me. I do need to be slightly careful of him hitting me. It's fine. It's not really that hard to dodge his clicks. I'm mainly worried about. That seems fine though. You just gotta have some fast reaction time. I also just realized that piping mission hits multiple enemies because I just somehow hit the snowman. No, no, no, please. Yeah. Okay. That's good to know. So pipe can hit multiple enemies. That gave me so many levels. Oh, the Yeti just respawned. Okay, I'll kill him after this quest. There we go. Alright, there we go. We can go to the next island. Saw should spawn in any second now. I also just realized that I have exactly 100k, so I'm gonna buy flash that. There we go. I'm just gonna go wait at middle time for saw. Actually, first I'm gonna kill like five NPC so I can get dragon blast. Oh, nevermind. Saw spawn in. We're just gonna go straight there and kill him. Alright. I don't really know the Saw's movesets cuz I like never fight him. Yeah, he already completely missed me, so now I know when he puts his sword in the air, he's about to attack. Let me equip the iron mace. I feel like that's gonna be better just because of the moves. Oh yeah, and also the fact that every third click there's a giant aoe. Yeah, this is way better. Oh, I can just avoid hitting him until I get this. He doesn't see me. Surprise attack. Hi yah. And no shark saw. That's the biggest scam I paid robux for two times drop chance and what do I get? Nothing. Okay, welp. To the marine fortress. Now, there is a guy who sells stuff here, but I think he only sells guns, right? Yeah, refined reform, refined a slingshot, refined flint lock and the cannon. So we're just gonna keep using the pipe. Alright, we got dragon blast, so let's see what it does and. Yeah. Oh my gosh. That's insane. It leaves flames on the ground. Well, that's a little bit op. That is a great move for grinding level 130. We unlocked the quest for the vice admiral, okay, so now it's gonna be worth it to server hop for the vice admiral because this guy gives insane amounts of levels. Another great thing about server hopping for the vice admiral is that you get so much money. Alright, I think I'm switching back to the iron mace for server hopping because it's just so much better for killing bosses. Oh, we got the coat. That's sword damage, right? Oh, and we can also go to the skylands. Oh, come on. Of course the coat is melee attacks. Okay, it's time to go to the Skylands. Alright, first I'm actually gonna roll a fruit because I took a bit of a break and it's been 2 hours. Okay, please give me something good, zeolas. And yes, we got magma fruit. That's literally perfect. Okay, well, now we have an elemental, so that's gonna make grinding at Skyland so much easier. I'll probably still roll fruits at some point, because actually, ideally, I get light. That way I can move around the map really fast or, like, portal, but probably light because it's an elemental. Okay, so here there's another sword dealer, and he sells the dual headed blade for 400k, which is a lot, and bassento for a million, which is just way too much. I think it might be worth it to, like, server hop at Middletown for saw, because I'm pretty sure the shark saw is really good. So, yeah, let me go back to Middletown. Oh, my gosh. I already found a server with saw. I just hope I have enough time to kill him. There we go. And no shark saw. Okay, we found another server with saw in it. There we go. We got the shark saw. Yeah, so this sword seems really good. Okay, let's go back to the Skylands. So, yeah, we're just gonna be grinding the sky bandits until we get the quest for the dark masters, and then we're gonna be grinding the dark masters until we can go to prison. Yeah. This sword is absolutely insane. It does so much damage. And the first move is really good. Like, look at that. Also, these guys just can't hit me because of magma, which is really nice. Okay, we unlocked the second move, so let's see what it does. I think it's similar to the one that saw uses. Okay, let's see. And, yeah, that's just the move that saw uses. Oh, my gosh. That's so good. It barely does any knockback. The sword is just insane. And especially because it has the. Oh, my gosh. It has the effect where, like, it slams into the ground, which is really good for killing bosses. We unlock the quest for the dark masters. The shark saw is so good for grinding level 190. We can go to the prison now. I didn't end up with enough money to get the dual headed blade, though, so I guess I'll be sticking with the shark saw. I'm not complaining, though. It's so good. Alright, we have enough money for the dual headed blade now, so I'm gonna go buy that. There we go. That does not look like a dual headed blade in my inventory, but it seems like it is. Okay, now I got to go all the way back to the prison. Oh, my God. How long has my mic been muted? Okay, well, anyway, dual headed blade is very good. Assassinate is a really good move, and I'll update you. Once I get raging wind. Alright, we got raging wind. So if this moves good, it makes dual headed blade the new best grinding sword. I mean, it already kind of is. Yeah. Let's see what it does. Oh, that is so good. Okay, so this is just the best sword right now. Also, just the click damage is instantaneous. Like, this is just such a good sword. You know what we can also get? We can also get the warden sword. I'll probably get that at some point. Alright, we unlock the quest for the warden. Once I unlock the quest for the chief warden, I'm gonna start server hopping. Because server hopping the bosses is the best way to grind up until Magma village. But yeah, the warden's just getting absolutely destroyed. Bosses that don't have any abilities you can just run around and easily kill. Alright, no warden sword. I'm gonna grind five more levels so that I can start server hopping the chief warden as well. Alright, there we go. I'm gonna start server hopping for bosses now. Alright, we unlocked the quest for the coliseum, but I'm just gonna keep server hopping because these guys give really good xp and really good money. I just got the warden sword. Okay, I'm gonna start getting mastery on that. I don't know if it's good for grinding though. Okay. My Internet's just absolutely dying. How? How does this work? Huh? Can someone tell me? Can I. Can I get the moves? I'm not even lagging. This guy's moving like normal, dude. What? I'm not even lagging. What is that? That's so cursed. Okay, there we go. I don't have the move though. Okay, dude, let's see what this does. Okay, it does a lot of knockback, but that might actually be good. And it does so much damage. I just got the pink coat. All right, I unlocked the x move on the warden sword, and it's pretty decent. It's really similar to the dual headed blade. Wait, hold on. I want to kill the swan first because this guy's killing swan, but yeah, it seems like the warden sword is just like the dual headed blade, but like a bit different because look, this is. This is so similar, like, and then this move is just worse. So yeah, I think I'm definitely gonna stick with the dual headed blade now that I have both of the moves. Let's go. We can go to the magma village now. I have $700,000. I'm so rich. Just from boss hopping. Okay, to the magma village. Let's go and lock the quest for the magma admiral. I'm gonna server hop for the magma admiral, because bosses give a lot of XP and money. I also have enough for bass sento now, but I don't know if I'm gonna get it because it's really similar to dual headed blade and warden sword, so I don't know if it's worth getting it yet. We can go to underwater city now. I wonder if I can roll a fruit. Okay. And we got smoke. Well, that would have been a nice fruit to get at the start, but we're already using magma. I also really don't care what we get, as long as it's not Buddha or, like, a mythical. Anyway, it's time to go to the underwater city. If we kill the fishman lord at the underwater city, we can get the trident, which is another sword that we'll need. So I'm gonna try and get that at some point, probably once I get the quest. I don't know if it's good for grinding, but I guess we'll find out once I get it. There we go. We unlocked the quest for the fish man lord. I'm gonna server hop and kill the fishman lord now because boss hopping is good, and I could also get the trident. I also figured out that apparently you need to be level 200 to get the saber. I always thought it was level 450 for some reason. It must be 450 for instinct or something, but, uh, yeah, I'm gonna get the saber after I can go to upper Skylands. There we go. We got the trident. Okay. As I'm server hopping for the fish man lord, I'm gonna start to get mastery on it. We can go to the upper Skylands now, but before I do that, I want to get saber and instinct. So the first thing we need to do for the saber puzzle is step on all these tiles. Here's one, here's one, here's one, here's one. And is that all of them? Okay, yeah, that's all of them. So now we need to take this torch and bring it to the desert, and we need to go over to this collapsed house with the red door and burn whatever this is. Or you could flash them in there, or you could not flush that in there, because it's on cooldown. And here we need to get this cup, and we need to bring this cup to frozen village. And here we need to fill up this cup at the dripping icicle, and we need to give this to the sick man in this house here. He'll tell us to go talk to the rich man, and a mob leader stole all his money. So we have to go kill the mob leader, which should be pretty easy. And he's dead. That was incredibly easy. So now we need to talk to the rich man and he'll give us this relic. And all we need to do is put this relic in the wall here. And we need to kill the Saber expert who isn't here. So I'll have to join a public server. Okay, here we go. I'm gonna switch to the dual headed blade because I have two moves on it and it's gonna make killing the saber expert a lot easier. Actually, we're gonna use the warden sword because of the big aoe on the. Wait, what? What? What sword is it? Is it the shark saw? Yes, the shark saw. Okay. And he's dead. Let's go. We got the saber. This is such a good sword. And we can also now go to the upper Skylands and by instinct. Okay, instinct teacher, give me instinct. Yes. Alright, it's time to start grinding at the upper Skylands. Before I start using the saber, though, I do want to unlock the next move on the trident because I want to know what it does and maybe it'll be really good for grinding. Okay, there we go. We got water pull. So let's see what it does and. Okay, that actually seems pretty good. I feel like it's gonna do so much knockback though, just for no reason. Let's see. Yeah. Okay, well, it's time to start using the saber. Yeah, saber is so good. It just does so much damage. It might also be the fact that I have no stats in defense and 1100 in sword, but still. But yeah, we're really closing to getting closing. We're really close to getting the quest for the boss. So once I get the quest for whisper or whatever his name is, I'll try and kill him. Okay, there we go. Now, this should be absolutely no problem with how many stats I have in sword and saber. So yeah, I should just be able to hit him, dash away, hit him, dash away, and then use moves whenever I can. Just dodge the bazooka. Okay, I failed to dodge the bazooka, but he's already so low and he's dead. And I got the bazooka. Cool. I guess. Okay, well, back to killing the shondas until I can go to the next quest giver. There we go. We can move on to the next quest giver soon enough. I'll be able to get the last two swords in first c. I think actually there's three. I need to get Basento soul cane and pull I can almost afford both placento and sulcane, but I need to kill the thunder God for pull, so I'll do that later once I get the quest. Okay, I'm gonna go buy sulcane because I might as well get it since I'm just grinding. I want to get mastery on every sword as well. So fun fact, I've never bought, so I have no idea where it is. Okay, apparently it's located in the volcano of the magma village. Okay, where is this living skeleton? It said that he did blend in and turning on fast mode would help, so I'm gonna do that, I guess. Uh, I'm not seeing him in the volcano. That's just not accurate at all. I looked at the location of the guy. I'm so confused. Oh, nevermind. Sulkain, let's go. Alright, back to the upper skylands. Sulking is pretty good for grinding. Like this move that freezes them kind of reminds me of like ic if it was like a little bit faster and like lasted for less time. We unlocked the quest for the thunder God. Now I can try and get pull. Alright, I'm gonna server hop for the thunder God and try and unlock pull because pull is one of the swords that I need. And by one of the swords that I need, I mean one of the swords because I'm collecting every sword except for true triple darkblade because Ripindra still has not responded to me on twitter. Okay, anyway. What? Okay, just don't hit him then. There we go. And no pull. Okay, well, time to keep server hopping. Okay, I discovered that shark saw is way better for killing this guy, so that makes this like infinitely easier. I have no idea why I was trying to use the trident. This is so much better. I'm getting so unlucky though. I've killed this guy so many times and still no pull. Alright, I'm gonna go buy bass ento because it's just right over there. Let me get some damage on this guy. I want the mastery soul. Kain. Mastery is appreciated. It's time to get bass ento. Nice. Our second legendary sword. Also another sword like shark saw that has a huge hitbox and the fourth click is a giant explosion. So that's great. I think the only thing that I can really do, or that I should do or that I want to do is keep server hopping for the thunder God because I really want to get all the surds, the swords in fur see before I leave and I kind of need that pole. So yeah, I'm going to keep server hopping. No, no, no. I walked off the map. I don't know why. I had like a cooldown on my air jumps. Dude, what was that? I've genuinely been killing the thunder God for long. I've been killing the thunder gun since I was level 575. How have I not got the pole yet? I have two times drop chance. Oh, we can move on to the next quest and I still don't have pole. Finally. Bro, that only took 30,000 years. Okay, we got the pole. So that means we have all the thirds in third sea. What? That means we have all the swords at first c. Okay, let's go down to fountain City now. You know what? Before I go there, I want to see if I can roll a fruit because it's genuinely been so long. Wait, I just remembered something. I don't have all the swords in first c. I'm missing cutlass. Okay, I'll have to go back and buy that after I try and roll the fruit. Okay, I got ice. That's fine, I guess. Okay, two pirate starter. Because I want to buy the cutlass. It's on the way to Fountain City too. I also just realized that I don't have mastery on triple Katana, so I'll have to do that. Okay. Sword dealer cutlass. There we go. Okay, we just need 34 more levels. I think these guys can't hit me. Yeah. Alright, I'm gonna start out with triple Katana because I do want to get mastery on it. And also, this is one of the best spots in the game to have an m one, which is really nice because I'm a sword main, so always have an m one. There we go. Alright, back to Bassento. And then once I'm 150 mastery, I'll switch over to the pole. You can see how much more damage this does though, compared to triple Katana. There we go. We got 150 mastery on basso. Let's see what this move does. Okay, so literally just a giant explosion. You just slam the ground. I mean, that's pretty good. Bull Z is already pretty insane. Like, it does so much damage. And literally no knockback. Like, look at this. No knockback and it does insane damage. I don't know if you guys can tell, but my voice is absolutely dying. We're one level away from level 700. Level 700. We can go to second c. My gosh. I did all of this in one day. I played 7 hours of blocks roots. So first we need to go talk to the detective at the prison and he'll tell us to go kill the ice admiral. Now this should be easy unless I suck at the game and get hit a lot because I do avoid 100 health. So I will get one shot die. Okay, so now we just need to talk to the experienced captain at the middle town. Take me to second c. Yes. Finally. Alright, this is where the challenge gets hard. Because in second c you have stuff like true triple katana, which takes so long to get. And in third c you have stuff like cursed dual katanas, which take even longer to get. So yeah, this will. This will be fun, but this is a job for me in the morning because right now it is one in the morning. Okay, well, it is technically the morning, but you know what I mean, right? Like tomorrow. Well, today. But I just realized I have my window open. I can't be screaming like that. People are gonna think I just got murdered or something. But, uh, anyway, I'll do it. I'll do it later. Okay, I'll do it when I wake up today. Alright, so I'm gonna start out by rolling a fruit because I would like to get Buddha. That's probably gonna be one of my goals. Also, I figured out that even though saber v two and vicento v two are technically not separate swords, pole v two is, which means I will have to fully awaken rumble. So I also need to get my hands on a rumble somehow. And spider, I mean, that's a legendary. I guess I'll take it. We're gonna need that for v three. Okay, so these are all the swords that we're gonna get in second c. There's not too many of them, but there is a lot of them that just. That just contradicts. Okay, anyway, I think the first one that we can get. Well, we can get any of them, actually, but I'm probably gonna go for Rengoku because Rengoku is a super overpowered sword. I don't know how easy it's gonna be to server hop the inter ISO. What the heck did I just say? I don't know how easy it's gonna be to kill the awakened ice admiral with 100 health, but I feel like it's worth it because the Rengoku sword is so overpowered. So, yeah, I think that's gonna be the first thing I try and do. Okay, to the winter castle. We are gonna need so much money in second c because true triple katana is 8 million in total. Okay, welp, time to server hop for the awakened ice admiral. Hopefully I'll be able to kill him. Okay, well, I got a library key that's not the right key though. I need the hidden key. Another library key. Another library key. Mandeh, I know it's rare to get the hidden key, but come on, man, another library key. Another library key, man. Another library key. I get that it's like a 1% chance, but still. Another library key. Another library key. Why is my luck with the hidden key so bad? Another library key. 5% chance by defeating awakened ice admiral. So a 10% chance. I've killed more than ten of these guys. I guess the library key is a 20% chance, but still, like I've got so many library keys in a row, yet I can't get a single hidden key. I'm going insane. Another library key. I've been doing this for an hour now, by the way. Another library key. Another library key. Another library key. Another library key. Another library key. It's like every time now can I please get a hidden key? Finally, I got both of them as well. Dude, I've been doing that for like an hour and a half. Rengoku. Oh my goodness. Okay, this sword is so good. I think I'm gonna start grinding here. I gained eleven levels just from server hopping the boss without the quest cause I don't even have the quest unlocked. Yeah, I absolutely hate grinding the raiders, but I think it will be fine. Okay, honestly, killing the raiders wasn't even that bad because I do have magma, which is an elemental, and they couldn't hit me after a certain point. But now we can move on to the mercenaries. We unlock the first move on Rengoku. I think this move is really good for grinding and it hits multiple enemies. Oh yeah, by the way, I'm killing the raiders because I am invincible to them because of my elemental and it's really annoying to kill the mercenaries cause they can still hit me. Okay, that does not hit multiple enemies. I remember it hitting multiple enemies for some reason. I mean, it doesn't really matter, but like still. I know. Burning slash hits multiple enemies though. So once I get that I'll be able to use it for grinding. Although it is 350 mastery, so. Alright, we should be able to roll a fruit now. Alright, Zeolus, please give me Buddha or like a mythical or something. Uh, that's not Buddha or a mythical. Welp, we unlocked the quest for diamond, now server hopping for diamond is actually gonna be a good idea, probably because he does drop a sword that we'll need, which is the longsword. So yeah, I'm probably gonna start server hopping or diamond, especially because like, okay, as I was trying to say he's not too difficult to kill or he shouldn't be, at least cause I do a lot of damage. But yeah, the main reason is Longsword. And he'll also give levels. So there's that. Man, I'm just trying to kill diamond. This might be the worst ice bounty hunter ever. I was just clicking him. Wow, this is some nice Internet I've got here. It's just gonna randomly unfreeze and I'm just gonna be dead. Yup. This is gonna be the last diamond that I kill before I unlock the swan pirates. And I still have not got long sword. I don't understand how my luck with like boss drops is so bad. This video. Alright, well, no longsword. I guess I'm just gonna kill Swan pirates. Honestly, I think I'm gonna get myself fruit notifier because there's just no way that I'm getting Buddha and rumble just from like rolling fruits and like occasional factories. But because I have to do so much server hopping for this video, I'm not gonna be getting the factories very much. And also, honestly, it's just fun to do fruit notifiers. Error. This item costs more robux than is available to purchase. Oh, I have to buy more robux. I don't even know if I have enough money. Dude, it's $30. Is that really worth it? I have $15. I don't have enough money. Welp, I'm gonna go ask my mom and use my mom's credit card. Literally the things I do for videos. Alright, that's not even all of it. Okay, there we go. Gift root notifier. Okay, there we go. I hope my mom forgives me. Well, hopefully we're gonna get super lucky and it's gonna be worth it. And in the meantime, let's kill Swan pirates because they're super easy to kill. I'll be grinding these guys for a long time. Probably until I get the quest for meteor Lord. What just happened? Nice. I've reached the point where they just can't hit me. That's gonna make grinding these guys infinitely easier than it already was. Let's go level 850. We can get race v two. Now. I don't know why that second level was so delayed. Oh, I figured it out. It's because I am lagging fantastic Internet right here. Anyway, we have to defeat 50 swan pirates, so that will take a thousand years. Okay, there we go. So now we need to talk to Bartillo again and he's gonna tell us to defeat Jeremy. So hopefully I don't struggle with that too much. We just need a dash around him, and we should be fine, honestly. We'll wait for him to attack, and then attack him. Okay, there we go. Blah blah blah. Bros dapping. And now we have to free the imprisoned gladiators. Gladinators. And now we have to free the imprisoned gladiators that are jailed beneath the stadium. The sadium. Dude, I literally can't speak English. And here we have to enter a code, which is this one, this one, this one, this one, this one, this one, this one, and this one. There we go. We got the warrior helmet. And we also freed the gladiators, which we needed to do for the quest. So, I mean. Okay. Anyway, let's go start the alchemist quest. Okay, so we need to find the red flower, the blue flower, and the green flower. There is no green flower. I meant the yellow flower. Anyway, since it's nighttime right now, I guess I'm gonna look for the blue flower. Dude, what? What am I walking on right now? I just want to get past this, man. The first place I'm gonna check is graveyard, and it can be under this tree, which it isn't. Oh, the fruit spawn in. And it can also be on one of these gravestones. I'm gonna prioritize the fruit. It's definitely probably. Aw, no, it's in the cursed ship. But you can't go into the cursed ship unless you're level 1000. Okay, this might be a little bit of a struggle. I need a boat. I need to get over there and then flash, step in. Because if you guys didn't know that's the actual haunted ship over there, I think I can do this in 15 minutes. Watch me do all this for, like, a freaking falcon. Okay, we're finally here. Uh, maybe it's over here. Oh, it's probably up here. And I literally called it. I literally called it. Watch me do all this for, like, a freaking falcon blessed one. Yeah, sure, buddy. Okay, well, it's daytime now, so I'm gonna find the red flower. It can be here, but it's not here. I'm gonna check up here because it can also be up here at the mansion and. Nope. It can also be on that little hill over there, and it's not here. Okay, it must be at green zone then, right? Oh, I found it. Okay, I'm gonna go kill the swan pirates until I get the yellow flower, and then at nighttime, I'll get the blue flower. Okay, I literally just got the yellow flower in, like, three kills, so that's pretty nice, I guess I won't have to be grinding. You know, I saw someone say that the blue flower doesn't despawn, so let me go. Let me go check that. Okay, I'm gonna go to the graveyard and check to see if the blue flower is there. I'll just check all the blue flower locations because I have nothing better to do. Well, actually, I already checked graveyard and it wasn't there. So I'll go to Cave island then. You know, I feel like the blue flower can be at the freaking dark arena. So I'm gonna go over there and check it first because there's also Usopp island over here. So statistically it should be at one of these two spots. Okay. Yeah, I feel like it can be under one of these trees or like next to. You know what? I'm just gonna look on the wiki. It cannot spawn here. Okay. Is it the red flower that spawns here? Maybe. Dude. What? Why did I think a flower spawned here? I genuinely have no idea. Okay, well, I'm gonna check Usopp island, bro. Not. Not in this rinky dink ship, bro. Oh, I had both of the flowers. Not in this. Not in this rinky dink ship, bro. I don't know why that's so funny to me. I'm not even mad. That was just funny. Okay, we're checking cave island first. Okay, from now on, I need to be really careful with the boat when I have the flowers. For once I was actually able to get in here easily and it wasn't here, dude. Of course it was on Usopp Island. I. Where I died because of my rinky dink boat. Alright. Yup, here it is. Now I'm gonna kill Swan pirates. What? Huh? What? There were two here? I'm so confused. Anyway, I'm gonna kill Swan pirates while waiting for it to become daytime. And yeah, hopefully I get the yellow flower easily this time as well. Alright, there we go. We got the yellow flower. Didn't take too long. And so, yeah, now we just have to wait for daytime. Oh, wait, I can roll a fruit. I'm gonna go do that. Okay, zeolas, give me Buddha or rumble, please. Okay, that is Springdez. Oh, factory. I completely forgot about factory. Well, that's something nice to do while waiting. And we got shop. I can't even store that. Well, it's daytime now. We'll check mansion because it is there a lot. But not this time. Next we'll check this spot right here. Hooray. Okay, that's all. Three flowers only took me like an hour and a half, but whatever. Let's go race v two. Alright, since I'm trying to stay in the server for a really long time because of the legendary sword dealer, I'm either gonna keep grinding or do some law raids. But yeah, first I'm gonna kill diamond because I want longsword and no longsword. Okay. I want to get the zebra cap and possibly coco. Actually, you know what? It might not be time to do that yet because doing a law raid with 3000 energy and 100 health is not gonna be fun. You do get hit a lot, so I'll probably do that later on in the video once I have some defense in Buddha. And yeah, I'm just gonna keep grinding the swan pirates even though I have the quest for the green zone because the swan pirates are just so op. Okay, another fruit spawn in. I think it's that dark arena. Or it's that snow mountain. I honestly can't tell. Or it could be at the ice castle. I don't really know. Honestly. I think it's at the ice castle. Okay. And it's sand. Yup. I could see it from all the way over there. Welp, that kind of sucks. Back to grinding, I guess. Alright, since I unlocked the quest for the meteor lord, I'm gonna kill him now. Just one time because I do want gravity cane. So yeah, hopefully he's nice to me and gives it to me first try and no gravity cane. Okay, well, time to kill a few more swan pirates until I can leave the green zone. Let's go. We can go to the graveyard now. Finally unlocked. Burning slash. I think this move is just a giant aoe similar to the move on pipe, but, uh, yeah. Oh my gosh. That move is insane. It does no knockback. It does so much damage, and it hits so many enemies and catches them on fire. Well, since I have both of the moves on Rengoku, I probably should switch to another sword soon. But like, all of the swords are boss drops and I don't want a server hop because I'm waiting for the legendary sword dealer. I am still killing the bosses whenever I can though. But my luck sucks with boss drops for some reason. It took me over an hour of boss hopping to get the hidden key. So what happens when you charge this? Oh my gosh. Oh, okay, that is a little bit better. We're level 1000 now. We can move on to the next island. But that also means that we can get race v. Three. I'm probably gonna get race v. Three first. Okay, so the first thing we need to do is give a fruit valued over a million to Trevor. Which conveniently, we rolled that spider earlier, so now we can fight swan. Hopefully this won't be too difficult. Uh, since I have 100 health, I'm just gonna keep my distance and use my moves. Get out of here. Alright. That was so easy. Even with 100 health. So now we need to go talk to the secret NPC in Diamonds Hill. And because we're human, we have to defeat Diamond, Jeremy and meteor lord. Don't question why I call him meteor lord. Okay, I'm gonna get the quest for diamond because I like levels and money. Diamond should be so much easier. Actually, all these bosses should be so much easier now that I have the x move. Hopefully if diamond is nice this time, I'll also get the longsword. Yeah, he's just getting absolutely destroyed. Well, no Longsword. Okay, next up I'll do Jeremy. Jeremy should be just as easy. There we go. I got the black spiky coat. Is that good? It's just 7.5% damage, 200 energy and 200 health. That's amazing. Okay, and now let's go kill meteor Lord. Okay, I'd love to get the gravity cane and no gravity cane. Well, at least we finished the race v three. Quest. Give me race v three. Yes. Alright, I only have 4.5 million now, but it's whatever. Okay, I guess I'll start grinding at the snow mountain now. Okay, factory is being breached. And another sand. I'm adding that to the pile. The legendary sword dealer is about to spawn in 15 minutes. Okay, the legendary sword dealer's here. So first I should check the factory rock, apparently. Which is, uh, here, I think. Let me just make sure. Okay, behind the grassy rock plateau near factory is the closest to Jeremy. Okay, yeah, so he's. He's not here. So next I should go to the coliseum. He should be like. Yeah, I don't see him. Okay, the next spot is, uh, through the docks, which is over here, I think. Yeah, through here. Nope. Okay, the next place to check will be green zone on one of the leaves on this beanstalk, I think. Yeah. Okay, I don't see him, like, anywhere. Next up, we'll check graveyard. I really hope it's here at the top of the central pillar. Okay, is he here? Uh, nope. Okay, the last place to check is remote island then. And if he's not there, then I missed him, which is so annoying. My boat from when I got shot in my rinky dink boat is still here. Okay. And yes, here he is. Legendary. Sword dealer and we can buy shisui. Yes. One of the three legendary swords acquired. Alright. That has a cool like pink glow. Okay. I had to AFK for a second and I come back and find out that I got kicked because my Internet died. So it's great that we got the legendary sword right before my Internet died. Anyway, I think I can roll a fruit now. Okay. And we get barrier kind of garbage. Okay. We'll still know Buddha, but at least we have a new sword now that we can use. So yeah, I'm gonna start grinding now. Okay. We unlocked the first move on Shisui. So let's see what it does. Okay, so it's pretty much just like a dash forward. Pretty decent. I unlocked the quest for the next guys but I'm gonna keep grinding the original guys because they can't hit me right now since I have an elemental. We can go to hot and cold now the NPC's at hot and cold. Absolutely suck to grind though. So I'm just gonna keep grinding these guys cuz I don't think they can hit me. Yeah. Okay. A fruit just spawned in and it seems like it's at Forgotten island. Okay. And alright, I mean at least something we didn't already have. Alright, we finally unlocked the final skill on Chisui. So let's see what it does. I mean that's pretty good. Alright, I think I'm gonna join a public server and use a strategy that I found on the wiki where you basically check all the locations for the legendary sword dealer. And then after you do that you check the manager in the cafe and see how long until the legendary sword dealer spawns. Alright, I've been server hopping for like maybe 30 minutes. And honestly, like the legendary sword dealer isn't coming anytime soon. So my new plan is I'm gonna server hop for diamond again because I would like to get the longsword. I would like to get a new sword and that's another way to do it. Why is there sand fruit on the ground anyway? Yeah, I just joined a server that has factory so I mean, I guess I'm gonna try. There's like 10,000 people here though. Yeah, there's buddhas with Sharkman karate. No way I'm winning. I did win. I got acidum rifle and sand. Dude, what is with this game in the. Dude, I've been server hopping for diamond for so long and I just can't get the longsword. Like I don't understand. Finally I got the longsword. Okay, that only took 30,000 years of grinding. Alright, I'm gonna go back into my private server now and keep grinding levels. I'm also gonna roll the fruit because I think I can do that now. And rubber, I mean, pretty decent. That's also one I don't already have, so that's nice. I think I'm gonna keep grinding at the snow mountain because it's just so good. The mastery requirements on the sword are kind of low, so we already unlocked the first moon. Okay, that's pretty cool. I think it only hits one enemy though. So how am I getting hit? Excuse me, I have an elemental. Okay, I think I just unlocked the boss quest at the hot and cold. So if I did, then I'm gonna server hop for the smoke admiral because he drops a sword that I'll need. Okay, yeah, I do have the quest. I'm gonna server hop then. There we go. We got the sword really fast. And we also unlocked glorious smash. So I'm gonna test it out on this guy. Okay, that is literally so bad. What is that? I mean, it's not terrible, but you kind of just jump and then. Then you land there. Anyway, we get to move on to this next sword here, g tae. And yeah, I'm gonna keep server hopping. Alright, we unlocked smoke leopard. I want to see what this move does. Okay, and from what I see, it's literally just a projectile. That is kind of lame. Maybe smoke apparition will be more interesting. Oh, nice. We can move on to this quest giver. I hate grinding these guys though. I want to see. Can these guys over here hit me? Probably not, right? Because they don't have aura. Yeah, these guys can't hit me. Okay, so I could either grind these guys or keep boss hopping. I think I'm gonna grind these guys. Let's go. We can finally go to the cursed ship. I've been playing this game for way too long. There's another sword at the cursed ship called the Midnight blade, and you need a lot of ectoplasm to get it. But it's one of my favorite swords in the game, so I'm excited to use it. Okay, so we need a hundred ectoplasm for the midnight blade, so I'll get it when I'm able to. I'm also literally one mastery away from getting the last move on Gtag. There we go. Okay, let's see what it does. What? Oh, I guess it's wherever you like aim. You teleport. There. That's pretty cool. Let me try it again. Yeah, and it creates like, smoke on the ground. That's pretty cool. Oh, the cursed captain spawned. I'm gonna try and kill him because he gives ten ectoplasm. That's literally the only reason I don't care about ghoul race. Oh, hey, the master vorus is here. I've seen him so many times throughout this, like, playthrough, but I just can't do anything because I don't have maxed out aura. Okay, there we go. I got the red spiky coat. What does that do? It's literally the exact same as the black spiky coat, except it gives you more health and a little bit more energy, so that's good. Oh, a fruit just spawned in, huh? Oh, come on. I'm literally one. Okay, I have to kill one NPC. I'm sorry, this must be done. Okay, there we go. Okay, it is somewhere at Kingdom of Rose and smoke. Okay, I already have it. Okay, well, back to grinding. Can someone explain to me how this coat is red? How is that supposed to be red? This is the black one for comparison. And then this is the red one. There's literally no difference. Alright, we can move on to the next quest giver now, but I don't think I'm going to because these guys here can't hit me. So I feel like it's more worth it to keep grinding these guys. Alright, we have enough ectoplasm for the midnight blade. Now, let's go. This is another one of my favorite swords in the game. It's just so cool. Anyway, the mastery requirements are pretty high, so it'll probably be a while till we get a move. Also, I feel like factory is about to happen. Alright, they're breaching factory. Also, I figured out in last video that for some reason, NPC's don't move when they're breaching factory. So that's very strange. Do they not spawn in as well? Dude, where am I? Like, how do you get out of this room in the dark? And we got spring more complete garbage. I can probably roll a fruit now though. Okay, I need to wait nine minutes. Come on, man. I also unlocked the first move on the midnight blade, which is just so cool. Like, look at this. The devs cooked when they were making that move. Let's go. We can go to the ice castle now. Before I do that though, I'm gonna roll a fruit. Okay. And dark. That's another new one. Okay, time to start grinding at the ice castle a fruit just spawned in. Okay, this is the spot where I found the leopard in my fruit notifier video. So hopefully it's something good and light. Wait, that's actually amazing. I'm actually gonna eat that, because with light, I get light flight, which just means that I can actually move around. Thank you, fruit, not a fire. For actually giving me something useful. We unlock the quest for the ice admiral. I don't need Rengoku, though. And I also, if I server hop, then the legendary sword dealer won't spawn, so it's not worth server hopping for him anymore. But I will still kill him. It's a lot easier once you have good instinct and you can just kind of click spam on him. I will say that he does still do way too much damage. Let's go. We can go to the forgotten island, the last island of the second sea. Okay, well, I'm still waiting for the legendary sword dealer. I really want to get that sword before I go to bed tonight. Dude, so far, I've done one sea per day. That is actually too much. Blocks. Fruits. Oh, wait. I literally just realized that I had crescent Dash. Okay, I guess we get to test this move out on the real meteor lord. Oh, wow. Okay, that's pretty good. Yeah, definitely good moves for PvP. Still no gravity cane. I'm gonna hit level 1500 before the legendary sword dealer spawns, and I guess I'll just be afking waiting for him. Okay, well, time to start grinding. We unlock the water fighters. The water fighters are so much better to grind. In my opinion, a man in here earlier clipped to ship the hip. The. What the heck did I just say? It's too late at night. Dude, it's almost 02:00 a.m. a man here earlier claimed to see a ship nearby today. Check back with me later. Okay, so that means he's gonna spawn in like, an hour. Oh, come on. I literally just came here. And of course they're breaching factory. Okay, I'm not complaining. I do like free fruits. Aaaaand. Spin. Man, my luck sucks. This video, we unlocked the quest for the tide keeper. The tide keeper does drop the trident, which is a sword that we need. Or not the trident. The dragon Trident. So I'll have to kill him. Sadly, I can't server hop just yet because I am waiting for the legendary sword dealer to arrive. I have to try and kill him before he summons a sea beast. Okay. Welp, die. Yes. I got the water key. No dragon Trident, though. Okay, well, I guess I'll give Dygrok the water key. Surely the legendary sword dealer will be here soon. Right. Like 15 minutes. Okay. Nope. I guess I'll just keep grinding level 1500. We can go to third sea now. Technically we can, but I'm not going to go there until I get true triple katana and gravity cane and dragon Tridenthood. Alright, I've kind of just run out of things to do. Like, there's no I can't kill meteor Lord or the Tide keeper. They're both just not here. The legendary sword dealer is not gonna be here for, like, another half hour. I can't roll a fruit. Uh, I don't really know. I guess I'm just gonna go to the cafe. I can roll a fruit in six minutes. So I'll just wait six minutes. Alright, I should be able to roll a fruit now. And, dude, this game is actually allergic to giving me anything half decent. Okay, the legendary sword dealer's finally here. Having light for this is gonna be so much better. Okay, I literally can't remember if it's this one or the other one, but I'm pretty sure it's this one. He's not here. All right, coliseum. Is he here also? No. Okay, into the docks then. Okay, next we're gonna check on top of this beanstalk right here. I don't understand, like, where he's supposed to be on here, honestly, but I don't see him anywhere. Okay, next up, we're gonna check graveyard. He's gonna be at Usopp island again and he's gonna be selling shisui. Okay, is he here? Nope. Okay. Is he here? Nope. Okay, so I missed something then the coliseum. Like, can he be over here? Is this where it is? Oh, I found him. Wando. Yes. Okay, so now I know he's, like, over here. I don't know how I didn't see him. Okay, we got wando. Alright, I literally need to go to bed. It's freaking 03:00 a.m. it's gonna be so hard to get saudi. I already know. Alright, I'm gonna go to bed. Okay, I woke up like 30 minutes ago. So sorry if I sound like that, but, uh, I looked on the wiki at the true triple katana page, and you need 300 mastery on be legendary swords, which luckily I already have 300 on Shisui, but I need to get 300 on Wanda. I'm gonna go roll a fruit because I can. Okay. And diamond, sadly, rumble was in stock. Last stock. But I missed it because I was literally asleep. Anyway, I'm gonna server hop for both meteor lord and the Tide keeper because I really want to get those other swords before I start trying to get the legendary sword dealer and whatever. There we go. We got the gravity cane. Alright, now we need to start server hopping. The tide keep. There we go. There's the dragon trident. We now have all of the last swords that are drops, which is great. So now it's time to afk in my private server for 10,000 years until the legendary sword dealer spawns in. And I guess in the meantime I'll just grind mastery on all of the swords that I just got. Okay, I just got back from getting food at a restaurant and uh, it seems like a fruit has spawned in, so hopefully I have enough time to get it because it would be very sad if I didn't. Alright, and it's bomb. That is garbage. That's a new one at least. Alright, they're breaching factory. Hopefully I get something like Buddha or rumble from this and ghost. I mean, that's pretty decent. We're getting all of the like uncommon and rare fruits. Come on. I just want a legendary. Okay, I think we can roll a fruit now. So let's roll a fruit and dude, come on, man. Fruit despondent. And it's right over here. Okay, I can kind of see it. It's dark. Dang it. Okay, well I can't store that. You know, I actually don't have the title for dropping a blocks fruit in the water, so let me do that. There we go. They're breaching factory. Okay, hopefully I get something good here. And another barrier. Okay, the legendary sword dealer is finally gonna be here soon. Okay, the legendary sword dealer is finally here. The first spot I check is around this hill here and he's not here. Second spot, colosseum. I really hope I get Saadi first try because that would mean way less pain for me. Okay, he's not here. I think he would be like right around here and he's not there. Into the docks. So far I'm not seeing him. I don't think he's here. Yep. Okay, next up, the giant beanstalk. Uh, I can come back and check here, but I'm pretty confident that he's not there. Graveyard next. I'm getting so fast at searching for him and nope, not here. Alright, the last spot is Usopp island. He has to be there since I thoroughly checked colosseum this time. If he's not, I will be sad. Okay, I am sad. Like coliseum, like factory rock. The rock closest to Jeremy. Oh yeah, well that would be the problem. He's probably right here. Yep. Yeah. Okay, soddy soddy. Soddy. No. Okay, I guess I'm gonna restart the server and wait another 4 hours. Okay. Another fruit spawn in and it's at snow village, I think. No, it's at dark arena notes at ice castle. All right, let me. Let me try and. Let me try and see what that is. It doesn't appear to be too vibe. It's freaking rocket. Of course. I don't know why I like to do that. It's fun to just try and guess from super far away. Anyway, we have about like half an hour until factory, which is another chance to get a fruit. I don't understand why I can't get a singular good fruit. Like I really need Buddha and well, I really need rumble mainly. Alright, we finally have 300 mastery on wando, so let's see what this move does. Really? That is possibly the lamest move ever. Okay, I just got back from the store and there's a fruit. So yeah, it's at remote island. I really don't know how long this fruit has been in the game for, so hopefully I can get there in time. Luckily I do have light. Aaaaand. It looks like smoke. Yup. Sigh. Get out of here. Okay, I think I can roll a fruit now, so I'm gonna roll and chop. Why am I never allowed to get something good? They're breaching factory. Okay, hopefully I get something good. Okay, that is half decent. That is finally a legendary. It's a terrible one. Literally the worst in the game, but it's a legendary. My luck is so bad today. And yesterday and the day before. Okay, the legendary sword dealer is finally here, so. Yeah, first I'll check the factory rock this time. I actually know which one it is. Uh, which is this one. And he's not here. Next up is Coliseum. Not here either. Next up, I'll check the docks. Not here. Green zone. Yeah, I don't see him anywhere. Graveyard? Nope. Okay, it has to be Usopp island or I missed something again. For the 10,000th time. Alright, he is here. Saudi sari. Sari, please. Yes. Oh. Second tries the charm, apparently. Okay, so now all that's left to do is to get 300 mastery on Saudi. So I guess I'm just gonna grind at the forgotten island. I swear I'm just gonna completely skip port town because of how much I've grinded at forgotten island. Let's go. 300 mastery on Saudi. That was kind of cool, but I don't care about the move. Okay, I can get true triple katana now. True triple katana? Yes. This is my first time using true triple katana. And you know what? Since pole v two is technically listed also on the third sea swords page, I'm gonna get it in third sea because I really don't want to be trapped in here until I get a rumble, which is gonna take like 30,000 years because at least in third c, I can be grinding in the meantime. Alright, I just rolled ice fruit. I can't even store it. Come on. Okay, let's go to third c now, since I'm gonna be getting pull v two in third c, we'll talk to King redhead and we have to defeat Ripindra. But we have true triple katana, so. Yeah, this shouldn't be too hard. Alright, there we go. Okay, let's go talk to Mister captain at the green zone. Actually, we're not gonna do that yet because a fruits about a spawn any second now. Alright, there it is. And it's at green zone. And rocket again. Of course. I actually just remembered something. Before we can go to third c, we have to get coco, which is dropped from order. So I'm gonna get people from my discord server to help me with law raids. Okay, sadly, we didn't get Coco, but we did get the zebra cap. I'm gonna keep doing law raids until I get Coco. Now let's go. We finally got Coco. We can go to third c now. Alright, now we just need to talk to mister captain at the green zone. Take me to third sea. Yes, third sea. All right, since I leveled up so much in second c, we can skip port town and go straight to Hydra island. The swords in third Sea are so difficult to get, though. This will definitely take a while. I think I'm just gonna grind a bit though, because I have so many swords that I have no mastery on. Now. See, I'm just gonna level up. Okay, it is a new day. It's the first day of third c, so yeah, I am gonna grind. But first I want to roll fruit because I would like to get Buddha or rumble. I also need to remember to kill the elite pirate whenever I can because I do need to kill Indra for dark dagger. Okay. Come on. Zealous and well, speaking of dark. But, uh, nope, can't use that. I think does in stock. Yeah. Okay, well, time to start grinding. At port town in third c, your elemental starts to do, like, absolutely nothing. So I'm basically just gonna have to be relying on instinct, which is kind of annoying. I was really hoping to have buddha by now. I also just realized that I'm out of two times xpath. I've got to use codes man. Alright, there we go. We got another like 6 hours of two xp. Time to start grinding. Alright, we can move on to the next quest giver now. I'm actually gonna go kill the elite pirate first cuz I also just remembered that you need to kill 30 elite pirates to get Yama, which is another sword that we'll need so. Yeah. Okay. And he's that floating turtle. That's kind of annoying because that's like the most annoying spot to look for him because there's like eight locations he can be. Alright, I found him. There we go. I got a bandana but no chalice. Okay, back to grinding. Alright, it's time to do another elite pirate and floating turtle again. Okay, well I found him very fast so that's nice. Luckily whenever I take a break to kill these guys they do give me like the same amount of XP as a regular quest. So that's nice. We got another bandana but uh, no chalice. Okay. Alright, I can go kill the elite pirate again. I might stop including this because it's gonna get so repetitive. Floating turtle again. Of course. He's in the exact same spot as last time. It's the exact same guy as last time. What is happening? It's been urban three times in a row and he's been in this spot twice in a row. Alright, we got nothing. A fruit just spawned in. I'm about to kill Diablo though. Okay, I don't even know where he is. I'm not too worried though. We have 20 minutes to get the fruit. I'm pretty sure. So there we go. We got the hunter cape but no chalice. Alright, let's get the fruit now. It's definitely at great tree. Pretty sure this is where I found spirit in my fruit notifier video so that literally means nothing. But maybe I'll get lucky. And another dark. What is with this game in dark? Okay, well back to grinding. We can go to great tree now. Hydra island went by really fast. Oh nice. We got the chalice. Okay, I'm gonna get people from my discord server that have the aura colors. Alright, here we go. Okay. And no dark dagger. I don't really care though because I got access to the portals which means that now I can just easily travel here, which is so nice. Alright, I guess it's time to go back to grinding. I finally unlocked the last move on true triple katana. Okay, let's see what it does. Oh my gosh. That did half of their health? Well, actually, no, I hit them first, but it still does insane damage. Okay, true triple katana is so, so good. Okay, now that I have all the moves on true triple katana, I'm gonna start getting mastery on my other swords, like gravity cane and. Yeah. Oh, I already unlocked dimensional grass. This move is really bad for grinding, though. It's mainly a PvP move. Okay. I just got back from eating, and it seems like a fruit spawn in, so I'm gonna go get that. I was literally just at castle on the sea and smoke. Okay. All right. Let me actually go kill DeAndre because I was gonna do that, and then I decided to go eat food randomly. I think I can rule a fruit now. Okay. Come on, zeolas, please. Light. Okay, I'm already using that. Please, I just want something good. Let's go and lock the second move on gravity Kaint. This move is so cool. It's really good for PvP as well. Okay, now I can move on to using dragon Trident. Let's go. We can go to Turtle island now. Okay. A food just spawned a food. A fruit just spawned. I want to finish this quest first. Okay. There we go. And it could be at Castle on the sea. No, it's definitely at, uh, sea of treats. I don't think I've ever seen a fruit spawn here. Maybe, like, once. And yes, a mythical. My favorite one. I shouldn't be excited, because this fruit has literally no value. Like, out of all the mythicals I could have got, this is the worst one, but I love this fruit so much. Let's go. I'm quite happy with that. Okay, back to grinding. Okay. A fruit spawned in. I'm just gonna teleport to the castle on the sea, and hopefully I'll be closer. Okay. Uh, kind of. I think it's at great tree. No, it's definitely at sea of treats. It's at the exact same island, too. It's just in the exact same location. Okay. Oh, it's actually at a different spot on this island this time, and it's a barrier. Okay. Welp, back to grinding. Okay. I can't actually roll a fruit, so I'm actually gonna roll a fruit before I keep grinding and quake again. I already have that, though. I'll give it to my friend. It'll be. It'll be a surprise. I have a fruit for you. Oh, quake. Thanks. I'm gonna eat it because I like quick. Yeah, yeah. Let's go. I finally unlocked the second move on Dragon Trident. Oh, my gosh. That is good. Okay, I can move on to Coco, a fruit just spawned in. I'm gonna go to castle on the sea. It's so far away, though. I wonder where it is. It has to be at like, I guess it's at guess at port town. Yeah, it must be at port town. Oh, it's not at port town. It's definitely a hydra. Okay, well, it's rocket, isn't it? Wait, I'm trying to see it from here. Uh, I think that's light. Or. Oh. Or. This game blessed me. Yes. I knew it was worth it to get fruit notifier finally. Only took until level 1932, but I finally got the best fruit for grinding with swords. Let's go. I'm still. I'm freaking unawakened. Hey, can you carry me in a boot? Hey, can you carry. This was supposed to be. Thanks. Ascension, awaken my z ability. There we go. Okay, we have awakened Buddha now, and that also means that we can do the glitch where you untransform and make your sword really big. Alright, thats gonna make grinding so much better. Okay, I finally got injection shot on Coco, so im gonna see if I can pull Yama out of the stone. I probably cant since I only have 22 elite pirates killed, but its worth a try. Cause right now I have mastery on every new sword that I got recently. Okay, wait. I have to kill these ghosts first. I am not worthy. Okay. No Yama. Okay, I just killed the elite pirate and got a gods chalice. So Im gonna take on Indra now with my friend. Hopefully I get dark dagger. I didn't get dark dagger. Okay, back to grinding. Alright. Another fruit swan in. It's actually on this island, I think, and love. I mean, that's pretty good. That's two legendaries back to back. I'll take it. Let's go. We can go to haunted Castle now. Buddha really makes it so much easier. And I should be able to get Yama relatively soon. I got another chalice. My luck is insane. That's two in a row. Okay, well, we're doing indra again. Dang it. No dark dagger. Okay, I'm gonna use a trick where you turn your graphics quality all the way down and you can go down and see the moon. Okay? Yeah, it's gonna be a full moon. So what I'm gonna do is how much time do I have? Where's the sun? I do not in fact, have enough time. Okay, what I was gonna do is go to the six danger zone and. And get a kitsune shine using the glitch so I could maybe get fox lamp, but, uh, yeah, it's way too late for that. Okay, well, a fruit's gonna spawn soon, and then after that, a pirate raid is gonna happen. Okay, I need to go back to haunted castle then. Actually, you know what? I'm gonna. I'm gonna see if I can pull Yama out of the stone. I do have 26 elite enemies defeated. Okay, come on, yama. Nope. Okay. I don't understand people who pull it out at like 20 elite pirates killed. I've never pulled it out before. 30. All right, the fruit spawned in. I really hope it's like rumble or something. I'm just gonna do the glitch where I transform, equip rocket, and then shift lock, and then you can go super fast, set this island again, and we got spring. That is absolute garbage. Okay, back to grinding. I'm gonna quickly gamble my bones, I think, because I need to get a, what's it called? A hollow essence or whatever so that I can summon the soul reaper and get the holosythe. Time to gamble my bones. Fragments. Money fragments. Money. Money fragments. Bare ears and ten minutes of two times xp. Okay. Welp, no hollow essence. Dude, I've seen this master of auras like 30,000 times. This playthrough. I just can't do anything. I don't have full body aura. Okay, we can finally kill the 30th elite pirate. All right, that should be the 30th elite pirate. And by should be, I mean is. I know that. I don't know why I said should be. Bro is back. Alright, we should be able to pull out the sword now. Let's go, Yama. That's one of the two swords that we need for CDK. Okay, so now I'm gonna go back to haunted Castle and start grinding with Yama. And when it's about to be a full moon, I'll go out into the ocean trying to get the kitsune shrine. We can go to sea of treats now. When did I get so many fragments? Wait, genuinely, when did that happen? I don't even know. I mean, that's gonna be super helpful when I'm awakening rumble. I just don't know when that happened. I'm gonna try and roll a fruit now. I need to wait literally 1 minute. I'm just gonna stay here for a minute. Okay. And I rolled diamond. Time to start grinding at sea of treats. Never mind. There's an elite pirate. I still need to kill the elite pirates for God's chalice because I need to get dark dagger from Indra. Okay, time to actually start grinding at sea of treats. Dude. I'm literally, like, not allowed to freakin. Okay, it's definitely at tiki based on how far away it is. And dark the fruit that this game is obsessed with for some reason. Okay, actually, it's great that I'm at tiki because I need to go to the freaking. Okay, here we go. So there's actually a glitch, which I mentioned this earlier. But if you go into the six danger zone, like, the second it turns into a full moon, the kitsune shrine, it's guaranteed to spawn for some reason, so we're gonna be using that glitch so that we can actually get the fox lamp. I don't think I have enough time. I might have started too late. Well, actually, it's gonna be close. No, no, not the rock, not the terror shark. No, no. Freaking terror shark always has to come at the last freaking second. Ruin everything. Oh, my God, dude, why? Okay, I'm restarting the server. Alright? Another fruit has spawned in. And luckily it's right over here at Haunted Castle, which is pretty nearby to Tiki because I will need to go to Tiki, like, right after this. And it's a freaking spring. Of course, man. Okay, now we gotta. Gotta hurry over to Tiki. I should actually have enough time. Yeah, I don't even. Yeah, the sun's all the way up there. I will definitely have enough time. If there's another freaking terror shark, I'm gonna be so mad. No one likes you, Seabees. Bro. I just said no one likes you. I hope when you're like, stopped in a boat that things can't spawn. Dude, I'm gonna kill my. I hate the terror shark. Leave me and my boat alone. No. Freaking terror shark. I genuinely. The. Why is the terror shark so common? It just spawns every single time because it wants to. I don't have enough time. Oh, my God, I hate the terror shark. I'm definitely gonna need a crew of people because when the terror shark shows up, I'm just completely screwed. Okay, I went camping and went to the beach and stuff. I went for one day and. Yeah, I don't. I don't know what happened to my voice. I sound so weird. Okay, I think today I'll try and get fox lamp, but I'm definitely gonna need a team of people from my discord server to help. I could also try and get to Shida, but I'd have to kill a elite pirate and get a chalice, and then I'd have to sacrifice the fact that I might get a dark dagger and then try and get to Shida. Oh wait, I just remembered. I'm so freaking thirsty. Alright, there you go. 350 mastery on Yama. It honestly didn't take that long with two times mastery. Okay, I'm gonna go see if I can kill an elite pirate because I would like to get to Sheeta. No chalice. Okay. I think when it's a full moon I'm gonna try and get fox lamp a fruit just spawn in and I think it's that turtle. Yep. And sand. Okay. I honestly don't know what sword to get next. I'm like, overwhelmed by the amount of swords that there are and how hard they are to get. Like, I guess I could try and kill Doe Prince for like, spiky trident. Oh, I missed the full moon. Okay. For some reason, two of the swords that I need are freaking, like, so hard to get just from the ocean. Like fox lamp. That. That one's kind of easy. But shark anchor, you need shark tooth necklace and the terror jaw, which is crafted with a bunch of random materials. And then on top of that, I need to craft the monster magnet with more materials and then I have to go kill an anchored terror shark. I really want to get fox lamp though, so I'm gonna do that now. The sun setting, did I go too far away? Oh, God, not the ro went too far away. The good thing about this is I'm getting tons of materials, which I need for shark anchor. So I was literally just rolling at the death king because I had three spins and I was like, you know what? I might get hollow essence. And I literally did. So that's great. I might be able to get holosythe if I'm lucky, and hollow scythe. Let's go. Okay. Instead of doing sea events until the full moon, I think I'm gonna grind mastery on holosythe. Dude, I just rolled another hollow essence. What is that? Luck? Look at all that mastery. Okay, it's about to be a full moon. Please. Why? Dude. Oh my God. And I'm dead. I hate this game. This game sucks. I don't think I've ever, like, I'm about to get it always. And that freaking terror shark spawns like every single time. It's so annoying. Okay, at least I just found Buddha from the notifier. That's actually great. I need that because I'm gonna need a trade for a rumble at some point. Full moon. Go, go, go. Mysterious shrine. No, they got it before me. Okay, I see it, I see it. I'm going to it. Okay, so now we're just gonna literally use Buddha fruit because you can easily get as a remorse. Okay, I'm just gonna go with 26, please. Fox lamp. No. All right. Hopefully next blue moon we actually get the fox lamp. I just got a God's chalice. Okay. Okay. I'm gonna try and do both at once. I'm gonna try and do to Sheeta and get dark dagger. I think I can do it in five minutes. Okay, I'll try. I'll try my best. Okay. I don't know if I'll be able to get to Shida by myself. I've never done it before by myself. I usually have my friend to show me where it is. Okay, hopefully that's enough. Okay, let me kill these ghosts. Go through the portal. Okay, the first. The first one is, uh, inside the arches of where you start. Welp, no dark dagger. I need help with Toshida. Dude. Like, I don't know where it is. Okay. This person's gonna help. It went out. Uh, okay, watch. This guy's gonna give me a chalice. I got banned from using the portal because I sucked at the Toshida trial. What the heck? He got another chalice. I told you he was gonna give chalice. Except the other guy killed it. Okay. My friend, who I originally wanted to help me, can help me. Wait, where am I going? What? Wait. Tushita to shida? Yes. Okay, can you go with the starting spot or I can just follow you. I can follow you through Hydra. That's fine. Yeah. Okay. You're doing the thing, right? I am going to the thing, yeah. Why is there no ghosts? I guess they're not here again. Okay. I started it. Okay. Hey, come on. Right here. Okay. It's already lit. What? Okay, well, goes by. I could be honest. I completely forgot this. No, it was this way. I forgot. It's right here. Yeah, it's already late. Oh, yeah. Go to the fifth one. Go to the fifth one. They're already litanous. They're already lit. Okay, you should know where it is now. It's just the ship. No, the ship's the fourth. Oh, my bad. Okay, the fifth is just down here. What the heck? Okay, bring me to the third. Okay, they were all already lit. Turtle center. They were already lit. I guess the fifth. I have to light them again. It's just a visual bug, probably. Yeah. Okay. You having portal is gonna make this actually possible. Wait, this is. It's this one. It's this one. What is going on? Yeah. Later. Okay. Turtle mansion. I know these two are. Okay, cool. I'm not exactly sure why they're all already lit. I don't know. This one right here. Okay, there we go. Now I can enter long. Yay. Long my time. Okay. Just got a. Gotta kill long, man. Now I swear they're gonna try and help me, and I'm not gonna get rewards. Yep. I. How did I know? Don't kill it. Okay, well, it's fine. I can enter this now, so I'll do it later. Yeah, you're good. Okay, let's go. Do you want to just stay for, um. For, uh. For, uh, kitsune shrine? We're doing that. Okay, sure. Yeah. Okay. Uh, yeah. Can you tps all to, um. To toilet mansion? What? He outpost. Okay, I do not think this is toilet mansion. We're in extreme territories now. Why did my voice do this? Actually, no. Yeah, you can. You can just drive that out. Okay. The fruit will stay, though. It stays even after kitsune shine. I mean. Yeah, can you just get it and then teleport back and get your own vote? Yeah, sure. I'm calculating where it is. It should be in, like, it's a plan. What? Not at all, dude. Okay. What? Okay, we didn't get a kitsune shrine. I think we're just unlucky, honestly. But I'm gonna kill long mess so that I can get to Sheeta. And then I'll probably work on getting CDK because that sounds like way more fun than freaking. Just sea beast hunting or freaking kitsune shrine hunting. Okay, I found a public server with long man it. There we go. To Sheeta. Let's go. Okay, we need 350 mastery on this sword, too. All right, I'm gonna grind mastery on Toshida while I'm waiting. Okay. Since I'm grinding at Cakeland, I'm getting people to help me summon Doe Prince because I need to get spiky Trident for this video, so. Yeah. Okay. We spawned Doe Prince or cake prince. Which one is it? Cake prince. Yay. Spiky tridenthood. First try. And we got pale scarf. Okay. I'm gonna get the fruit that spawn in. It's absolutely at sea of treats. It's like at the back of sea of treats. That spirit. I think that might be spirit notes. It's smoke. No, it's freaking Spike. I hate this game. Yes. We got it, we got it, we got it, we got it, we got it. Soul Reaper. Why? Okay, I'm at the. I'm at the cap. Please give me luck. I got the title. The blue moon has faded away. I started it. I've got 25 now. All right, please give me fox lamp so I don't have to do this anymore. I've been doing this all day. It didn't give me anything. Yay. I got a fox lamp. Oh, come on. Yeah, the fact that I got nothing when I donated the max amount is so sad. What? Buck fruit. That Hydra. I just knew that. I literally went to Castle and I just knew that it was at Hydra. Oh, that's a pretty good fruit. Control. Oh, control. Oh, wow. Well, I think it's safe to say that I can trade for a rummage now. Okay, I should get the mastery on the Toshida so I can actually get CDK now. Oh, the shrine spawned after our boat died. Alright, I'm gonna quickly see what I can get because I think I can do two this time. Okay, please give me something good. Uh, fragments. What do you mean fragments? Okay, I'm doing one more. He said you needed 25 for fox lamp, but I'm doing it anyway. And I got. What? Oh, top five scam. Why does it say I'm on Xbox? Let's go. Finally, a day's worth of hunting this stupid thing. I spent all day getting this. By the way, hand spike from the notifier. I don't even care. I got fox lamp. Let's go. Okay, I'm getting off. Okay, we're literally only missing, like a few swords, which are twin hooks, buddy sword, can mander, dark dagger, pull v two, shark anchor and CDK. So twin hooks, buddy sword, and Canmander are all just like boss hopping. Not too difficult stuff. Dark dagger is gonna be a little bit more difficult because I will have to kill indra a bunch of times. But that's at the end of the world. At the end of the world. At the end of the day, that's not the end of the world. Pull V two is easy because I just need to get people to awaken rumble for me, shark anchor is kind of hard and CDK is kind of hard. So really we don't have much more to do. Okay, so now I'm gonna go grind at sea of treats for levels and also so I can get 350 mastery on Toshida. That way I can actually get CDK. Nice. We got a chalice on our first elite pirate. Please give me the freaking dark dagger, Indraeze. Dang it. This guy just rolled venom. No way. I can't take it though. That would be cheating. All right, I'm gonna go back to grinding, I guess. Okay, someone in my discord server just got a chalice and their joins are on so I'm gonna join them. And no dark dagger. All right. I have 350 mastery on Toshida now which means that we can get CDK. Okay, I don't remember how to get CDK at all. I think by the mansion there's like a building on a hill behind it. I think it's this thing right here. Uh. Die. How do they want me to do it? I don't know. Understand. I'm just gonna flash that bin. Okay. Yeah. Probably do Toshida first because Yama yama is not very fun. Pain and suffering. You just have to get hit a bunch I think. Haze of misery. You have to kill like every single NPC in the game and then fear the reaper which is kill Soul Reaper. But this one is just like talk to NPC's kill an NPC from the pirate raid. Kill the cake queen. See? Yeah, I'll start with. I'll start with Doc legend. What is that? What is this? What does that mean? Since when is that there gonna talk to people at docks? It's the boat dealer, right? Uh, pardon me. No way. Pardon me. Okay. Am I doing this right? There we go. We got an alucard fragment. Is it Alucard? I played brawlhalla and now it's. It's. It's Alucard to me. You know, sense of duty might be a little bit harder cuz I need to kill an NPC from a pirate raid. I really don't understand what you're supposed to do here. Okay. Sense of duty. Uh, the server has been up for a little bit. It will happen after a full moon. So let me. Let me look at the moon. The moon's actually about to be full. Perfect. A fruit spawned in. Where's the fruit? Oh, blame can't store it. Well a pirate rage should be coming soon enough. I literally just got back right in time. I was doing something and. Oh my gosh. That's a good fruit. Got Phoenix. And we also got the other alley card fragment. The last two sheeta trial is just to kill Kate Queen so that's pretty easy. Easy. Alright. We gotta light up the torches and defeat the enemies. How do they want me to light up the torches? I don't remember how to do this. What torches? Oh, I found one. Oh, I'm just. I just like them. Okay. That's not that hard. Where's the last one? Aha. Oh my gosh. I also defeat the boss on the last one. I forgot about that. The Buddha sword glitch. Is just a little bit overpowered. Easy. Nice. Alright, now for the yama scrolls. These ones are a little bit difficult. Pain and suffering. Okay. For this one I just have to take like 8000 damage from a random NPC that did not work. It also said that it might not work the first time. So there we go. Okay, now this next one's really hard. So I'm gonna get my friend to help me. Never mind my friends offline. Okay. I'm gonna start with the NPC's on Hydra, I guess. But yeah, basically for this trial random NPC's will have like a thing over their head and you have to kill them until they don't have a thing over their head. And this can happen to any NPC in the game. And it's so annoying because you have to check every single NPC. So yeah, for some reason these guys don't have it. Like no one at Hydra has it. But you gotta check the ghosts cuz sometimes they can have it. Yeah, they don't this time, but they can have it. I also completely forgot about the other NPC's on Hydra. So. Yeah, these guys don't have it either. Weird. They must all be at like one spot. Yep. These guys don't have it either. I think that's every NPC in Hydra, right? Yeah. Okay. I'll do Turtle island next. First I'll check these guys. Okay. Yeah. So see these guys have like a purple circle. So I have to kill them until they don't have purple circles. And I think it's random how many you have to kill. So this could take forever. I say that and immediately they don't have it anymore. Okay. Do the myth. Mythological. Mythical. Logical. Do the mythological pirates have it? Yes, they do. You know, this actually isn't as bad as I thought it would be. It's just kind of annoying without someone with portal to TPU. Okay, the mythological pirates are done. Next, I'll check the mushroom pirates. The not the musketeer pirates. I genuinely have no clue where I got mushroom from. Okay. Yeah, these guys have it too. I literally killed one guy. Okay, next up, the jungle pirates. These guys also have it. All right. Only had to kill three. Now I got to check the like fish man pirates. These guys have it. A lot of them at the Turtle island have it. I think every single NPC here has had it. Alright. There we go. We're done with Turtle island. So next I think I'm gonna go to great tree because that's easy. That's just right off of Hydra. It might actually be a little bit hard to find. Great tree in this haze. Third C map. Third C. There we go. All right. So yeah. From Hydra island. It's like directly off of the coliseum. We're not the coliseum. I mean the freaking friendly arena. Okay. It should be this way. I feel like I see something in the distance. Yeah, that's definitely something. Like. I don't know. It's kind of hard to sea but I'm going towards something. How the heck did I end up on Castle on the sea? Okay. If that's sea of treats and it's like this way, it's like right here. This should be going towards great tree. Yeah. Here we go. Great tree. All right. These guys don't have it. And these guys also don't have it. And that's all the NPC's at great tree. So it's definitely not a great tree. I'll check sea of treats next because it could just not be at any of the other islands because of how many NPC's are at sea of treats. Okay. Uh, yeah. These guys have the most. Only had to kill them once. These guys back here also have it. I also only had to kill those guys once. All right. Cake land is over here. Okay. First I'm killing these guys because they have the mark. I'm literally only killing them once. Yeah, these guys also have it. Only to kill one of them. But I also want to check these goobers over here. They don't have it. These guys do though. Alright. There we go. So now we'll check the peanut land. These guys do have it. There we go. The peanut scouts also have it. There we go. I'll check the chocolate land next. All right. The cocoa warriors have it. Alright. Chocolate bar battlers also have it. There we go. Sweet thieves don't have it. And candy rebels don't either. Alright. I'll check the Christmas island place over here. I think it's in this general direction. You know, it's a little bit hard to find it when you can't see anything. Dude, I hate this trial. Where is it? Dude. Yes. My friend is here. Please help. Okay. I haven't plugged in now. Oh, of course. I immediately find a freaking like I've been looking for the Christmas island for so long I couldn't like get to it. No one here has the mark and so I just wasted all that time. The places I still need to check are port town and haunted Castle and tiki outpost. Where we go. Port town. Yeah. These guys have it. Okay. Pirate millionaires no longer have it. Okay. Yeah, I gotta do pirate billionaires. Okay, sorry. Pistol billionaires. Because they have a pistol. Pistol. I like how they use a musket. I mean, that's just a long pistol. These guys do not want to lose the mark. Okay, there we go. Oh, that was all of them. I didn't even have to do anything else. All right, that wasn't as bad as I thought. Anyway, uh, yeah, time to ping my entire discord server and ask for them to roll for hollow essence. Hollow essence. Hollow essence, that is. Fragments. That was fast. That was way easier than I thought it would be. There we go. All right. Yo. What? Oh, I was supposed to die to him. Oh, my God. Okay, it's fine, it's fine. I have the best hollow escape luck in the west. Okay, watch. Watch this. Hollow essence. Watch. Watch. That's the wrong essence luck. Fruit. No way. Ice fruit. Okay, watch this. Hollow essence. Okay, that's freaking money. You know, I'm gonna see if I have some bones on some of my other accounts and see if I can roll. Okay, we can roll nine times, so hopefully we get a hollow essence. Okay, one. Money. 234-5678 and nine. Didn't get it. Dang it. I got bare ears. Okay, I'm gonna see if I've bones on any of my other accounts. Okay, come on. Hollow essence, hollow essence. Money. Money. Golden sun hat. No one cares about that. Fragments and bare ears. Come on. Okay, surely on this account I can get it. Fragments, golden sun hat. Money, money. Yep. Bro. Fire essence. Okay, I think I'm gonna stick to this account here because it has two times drop chance, which I think think affects it. I'm also running out of noob to pro accounts. Okay, come on. Yes, yes, yes, yes, yes. Okay, I'm not gonna mess it up this time. Okay, the torches are so much easier to see in this one. Okay, wait, so what do we do now? Oh, okay, wait. I'll do the toshido one after I get the pirates. Dude, I have so many fragments. This is gonna be great for when I'm awakening. Rumble. And I got chopped fruit from it. Complete garbage. Okay, I don't care about that. Okay, we're getting CDK. There we go. Okay, now I got to kill this guy with Yamaha, which shouldn't be too hard because I am using Buddha fruit. Oh, my gosh, there's a lot of skeletons. What? What happened? I can't see. Oh, wait, I just realized I'm holding crystal katanas. Something weird happened to your saber. No way. I accidentally killed this guy and something weird happened to my saber. Well, I don't care about that. I got cursed. Dual katanas. Why does only one of them. Why does only one of them have aura? Let's go. Okay, that's one of the hardest swords to get that we no longer have to get. I think I can roll fruit too. And. Oh my gosh. I just rolled blizzard. Nice. I got a chalice. Okay, this is another chance at dark dagger. All right, this time I'm gonna get it. I just know. I knew it. I knew it. I called it. All right, why does what is one of my katana does not have it. Let's go. That's one of the, like. I think that was the like, hardest one remaining. I just need twin hooks. Buddy sword. Can mander, pull v two and shark anchor now. Okay, I'll probably do like pull v two next. Okay, first I'm gonna craft a the shark tooth necklace because I do need that. And I'm also gonna craft the terror jaw. Okay, I don't have enough fool's gold. I'll have to do that again once I'm ready to get shark anchor, but yeah, first I'm gonna trade for a rumble. And then I'm gonna get people from my discord server to help me awaken it. I'm probably gonna go a bit over. I'll just say blizzard for rumble so I can get it fast. It's not like I really need to keep the value of my fruits or whatever. Okay, ignore my voice. I don't even know why I sound like this right now. I'm not even sick. But, uh, apparently Blizzard is under for Rumble. This is news to me. Okay, I did not know that. Alright, I got someone to trade blizzard for rumble. There we go. So now I'm gonna eat it because I can always just eat buddha again. I have two. Okay, I do have a lot of fragments, so I think this is enough to fully awaken rumble. Alright, we're just gonna do rumble raids now. Alright? I fully awakened rumble, but I just remembered that you need 250 mastery on it. So I'm gonna kill bosses. Okay, there we go. 250 mastery on rumble. So now we can use this move. But I don't care about the rumble moves. I just want to get pull v two. So we just have to do one more rumble raid. Alright? Yes. Let's go. We got pol v two. Is this supposed to do something? This portal just doesn't work. Alright, we got pol v two. So the next thing I think we should get is shark anchor, which honestly I just need fool's gold. I think like that's all I need. So I'm just gonna do some, some ocean endeavors. I just realized that I'm still using rumble. I need to eat Buddha. All right, there we go. Oh my God, there's 200 shipwaits on me. If the boat dies, then the freaking thing despawns. But I really need to kill these because fool's gold. Oh my God. What on earth is going on? And our boat's dead. Alright, I have enough fool's gold for the monster magnet now let's go. We got the monster magnet. Okay, I just need to get a terror shark. We've been searching for like an hour and a half and still no anchored terror shark. It's so annoying. Tons of normal terror sharks but none of them have the anchor. Finally, finally I got the terror shark with the magnet. With the anchor I not with the magnet. I've been doing this for so long. Okay, I need to be really careful not to die to this guy, okay? It's like half health. Ow. He needs to run. He's so low. He died. He died. Oh no. This is so bad. Oh my God, it's so low. It's so low. Please. Yes, yes. Finally. Shark anchor. That took so long. My gosh. Been freaking hunting for the terror shark for like 6 hours. That's just not true. Maybe it's true, I don't know, it's been like a few hours though. Finally. Dude, I'm about to die. To freaking piranhas. I finally got the shark anchor. Okay, that leaves only the easy swords. I just need twin hooks can Vander and buddy sword. Alright, I'm gonna kill Captain Elephant, Kate Queen and beautiful pirate now. But really that's just a bunch of server hopping. Like all I got to do is some server hopping. I'll probably do that tomorrow since it's 08:00 p.m. okay, no twin hooks. Okay, I'm gonna, I'm gonna get off for the night. Okay, I literally just found out that the recording of me getting twin hooks can Mander and buddy sword and reaching max level got corrupted. Reaching max level was literally the whole point of the video and the video got corrupted. So anyway, uh, yeah, please, please forgive me that there's no footage of me getting mastery on like fox lamp, shark anchor and some other swords, but uh, yeah, I was grinding at chocolate land to get mastery on the final remaining swords. Okay, 300 master and spiky tread. So yeah, Spiky trident's another sword that's really good for PvP. You've got that move and then you have the move that just grabs them. Like, look at that. That's so good. Alright, I'm gonna move on to buddy sword now. There we go. 300 mastery on buddy sword. So yeah, this is what the moves do. So pretty decent. It also sets them on fire and they take fire damage. And then this one is. It's the move that Kate queen uses, so pretty decent. Okay, the second last sword, Canvander. Okay, there we go. 300 mastery on Canvinder. Yeah, Canvinder is honestly like very mid. Like, this move is so like slow. Does no damage. What does this do? Okay, that's just not. It's just not that good. Okay, time for the last sword of the video. Okay, I'm lagging incredibly bad on the Roblox app. Darkblade gift. All right, there we go. And dark blades. Literally only 50 mastery. That's one kill. There we go. We've successfully obtained every sword and unlocked all of the moves on them. Wait, no, I didn't do cutlass. Okay, there we go. Now we have every sword with every move. Thank you guys so much for watching. If you enjoyed the video, please like the video and subscribe to my channel. See ya.