- [Reporter] President-elect to do a lot in his second term. - Starting on day one, We have to do the tariffs. The largest deportation operation in the history of our country. - [Reporter] But not all of by the president alone. Some are, like. - It will be my great honor to pardon the peaceful - [Reporter] But some are not. - We will have no tax on (audience cheers and applauds) and no tax on Social Security - [Reporter] Here's what as president in his second term. Let's start with Trump's - On day one of my administration, I will terminate every open border policy of the Biden administration and we will begin the largest in American history. - Any presidential administration can do a significant number of things with regards to how people That doesn't mean that the president can unilaterally override current laws, and those laws require when presented with certain or inside the United States, they have to be heard in a certain way with a certain type of process. - [Reporter] Trump hasn't but the president controls and can decide who they So, Trump can change the current policy of prioritizing unauthorized to anyone in the country unlawfully. - That still doesn't mean that 11 million people can be removed. The Obama administration accomplished the highest number of internal removals, and that was with the of the United States going at full bore. So, you can imagine that need to be committed to something that even that the Trump administration - [Reporter] To hire more people, to build detention centers, to pay for transportation, all the logistics of would require congressional appropriation. He could ask local law although only if they volunteer and if state law even allows, and then local departments would have to use their Trump has also floated the - The United States military from engaging in domestic law enforcement. - And there's not really any good way for presidents to get around that. So, the president can say and it doesn't matter. It doesn't change the fact that he can't use federal - But as commander in chief, Trump can organize the top of - And we have a military that's not woke. You may have a few people and we're gonna get rid your head's gonna spin. - The president can get rid of generals. The president's a little So, Congress has a say in - We're gonna take the Department I'm gonna close it. - [Reporter] The Department of Education was created by Congress and it can only be closed by Congress. It mainly handles student loans and enforces civil rights which protects students - I will keep men out of women's sports. - The president has the authority and the Secretary of to rewrite the Title IX regulations. The Trump administration rewrote the Biden administration and so I expect we are going within his first year. - [Reporter] The Department through these civil rights programs, like for students with disabilities, and doesn't actually set curriculum. - I will sign a new executive for any school pushing transgender insanity, and other inappropriate racial, sexual, or political content onto our children. - The reasons that the department can cut off federal funding And so to tie new policy you would have to pass new legislation. It's important to underscore it would represent a sort of from a long-held principle that the federal government should not have a say over curriculum. - Starting on day one, I new pipelines, new refineries, new power plants, new reactors, and we will slash the red tape. - All he can do is tell EPA and then it will go through what's likely to be a multi-year process. - [Reporter] For example, Trump directed the EPA to revise or withdraw the Clean Power Plan. It wasn't repealed for - We will drill, baby, drill, and I'm gonna cut your within 12 months. - [Reporter] Trump does have the authority to direct departments like the Interior to allow for more drilling. But not only do those the same long process, it's a private industry that drills and sets the price of oil. - And of course, even if he approves it, that doesn't mean industry's gonna think it's, you know, economically - I can make anybody do anything And the president has the - [Reporter] The of setting tariffs to Congress. But in the '70s, they gave to set tariffs for specific retaliatory or emergency reasons. - It was never probably contemplated to be against an entire - Trump wants to put - Every damn thing that they is gonna have like a 25% tariff until they stop drugs from coming in. - As a retaliatory move, he has that authority delegated - [Reporter] But this trade lawyer thinks some of Trump's broader proposals to put blanket tariffs on every - I'm gonna oppose a tariff A small 10% tariff on will allow massive tax - [Reporter] Would see - If he doesn't explain it, he he just says, &quot;Well, I'd of 20% on all countries, all goods,&quot; I think the court would say, &quot;No, under the Constitution, that is in fact given to the You can't do it.&quot; - [Reporter] For most for his second term, there are limitations, checks and balances within the process or directly from Congress. But most experts believe he'll as his first term, implement the policy first and have the courts decide - And, yeah, just go ahead and do things and not worry much about - I think the bet that the is that eventually their by perhaps a Supreme Court that - The attempted efforts by Trump to promote his policy agenda through the power of the executive I think remains to be seen. (bright music)