In January 2008, unbeknownst to the world, something shady was happening off Construction was beginning on a shiny, new 85% of the $361 million price tag But this, on its own, was no bank funds thousands of projects around the world. What was strange was the location. Positioned between the Suez Canal and Strait each year on their way between Europe and Asia Yet, Sri Lanka, with a population of functioning port just 100-miles northwest, in So why, then, build a second so close, in Sure enough, this skepticism In 2012, 3,667 ships berthed at Two years had passed then since the opening By 2016, the project had lost ministry of finance. In addition to the sea port, an equally pristine The last remaining airline pulled out Its long runway and modern terminal So, if not profit, what motivated It all begins to crystallize Sri Lanka is geographically blessed not only it's also just 34-miles, at its closest point, Coincidence? Maybe. But then, in 2017, Unable to pay back its many Sri Lanka was forced to hand over the It didn't take a wild imagination to see how the claims in the South China Sea might use this Since then, close observers have watched the same Tajikistan. Djibouti. Ethiopia. Kyrgyzstan. as circumstantial, many now argue It's called [ ]. Here's what happens: First, China approaches a small, impoverished can't refuse. Stadiums, palaces, roads, ports -- 2000 and 2019, Chinese banks have loaned an alone. Looking at a map, it's hard to find a place Inevitably, the project fails. Trains roads lead to nowhere, and an oil In fact, it almost seems like Finally, the coup de grace. After the fanfare right back where it started plus crumbling It generously offers to forgive the loans. And insignificant piece of its sovereign territory. Or, rather, that's how the story goes. The "debt-trap" narrative is so often Yet almost everything said thus far is either In the case of Sri Lanka, no debt was ever there is no military base, and China didn't There's another way to make And it neither requires that you Sponsored by Brilliant. Learn math, science, and computer science the intuitive When poor countries need money, like the Development Assistance Committee But what these largely-Western countries and banks At one point, 70% of World Bank infrastructure -- physical things like just 30%, in favor of things like education, But while the West has largely moved on from Africa, for instance, receives only about it needs each year, leaving it Now, hold that thought for a second. Sometime around 2010, the world's most populous breakneck growth and development, it began, to China was still developing like By 2012, the profit rate of new domestic Meanwhile, the entire economy, and depends on these construction jobs, excess In short: to feed the bottomless appetite of Supply, meet demand. In Africa, If one views development as a China was, only recently, one stage lots of experience building exactly Whether true or not, China believed were models that could be It was the perfect collision of excess supply and unmet demand. In just a few short For recipient nations, this wasn't just a lot of When giant, multilateral institutions you better be prepared to show exactly how, when, who, and where it went. And, in addition and kickbacks you'll miss out on, you might Aid, in other words, is both That is, until China came along. The icing companies don't ask 'Why do you need this The result is that these investments and economically viable as When local politicians are careful and uniquely valuable because it takes on countries The Chinese shipping conglomerate Cosco, for the Mediterranean's second-largest, despite being Low-interest Chinese loans helped Angola boost its When it goes poorly, on the other The state-owned China Communications Construction and Chinese officials were involved in In the case of Sri Lanka's Hambantota First, you may ask: Was the The answer is... inconclusive. What we do know is that its government had been considering the project for And while the port of Colombo is indeed nearby, it was then approaching capacity, and many of A second and separate question Here the answer is a resounding... 'yes'. Hambantota is not just any rural coastal signed off on the project. Despite a large rock it "opened" on his birthday in 2010 -- a sign $7.6 million of project funds were secretly If there is a "pattern" to it might be frequent -- though Bribes and kickbacks are widespread and Chinese companies seem A significant number of except local politicians and Chinese developers. But corruption is not the same as a deliberate default on their loans, one might expect it to Yet, independent researcher after researcher Quote, "It is unlikely that [the] Belt wide-scale debt sustainability problems", The Lowy Institute finds that, quote, gone to countries that... could And finally, Deborah Brautigam of Johns Hopkins seen any examples where we would say the Chinese Experts attribute China's slightly higher say, Japan or the World Bank, to its sheer scale. Remember, we're talking about over ten thousand much money being spread across this wide a surface its "no-strings-attached", "look-the-other-way" Now, China may not set out with this intention, but you might argue that once it sees Two countries are usually cited as examples. First, if all one knows about Sri Lanka is that it who then took over that same port in 2017, it may appear to be a clear-cut But what this version of events misses is China was not even Sri Lanka's largest source Development Bank, Japan, and the World Bank. The So why did Sri Lanka make the deal? In 2004, it suffered a devastating tsunami, This, in turn, led to a "balance of trade" than it was exporting, it ran out of US Dollars, In other words, Sri Lanka needed hard It was almost certainly unwise to take out port -- at least, at that time -- but it because the vast majority of its debt was The exact details of the deal are also happened is that the Chinese company paid $1.1 No debt was forgiven in the to pay off other loans from other countries. Neither will it gain a new as the lease stipulates, without Next is Djibouti. Here, in 2015, China built its first and But so has Germany. And Spain. And France. Its colonial history is long and complicated. But the ultra-condensed version is Djibouti has access. Access to this 18-mile wide Its leaders have squeezed this fact to almost any military willing Africa is not a country. Every nation The "debt-trap" narrative is right to between giant China and the (mostly) But, by portraying China as the only party with of each nation and absolves corrupt Take a look, for instance, at the amount or outright forgiven -- less than France or This data suggests recipients Of course, none of this should When Chairman Xi Jinping visits Senegal, one of China gains something valuable though intangible. While it may not be a primary motivation, it support, and, when it comes to, say, the So, is Chinese investment: (A) An ambitious, 21st-century Or (B) One, giant, trojan horse designed the People's Liberation Army Well, neither; it's not much of a 'plan' at all. You may have noticed this video makes "The Belt and Road Initiative". That's because... it doesn't really exist. Originally called the "Silk Road Economic the "project" has become increasingly To this day, there is no clear definition of what different levels of its own government disagree. Look at a map of all "participating countries" There is no grand, cohesive, 50-year The same inefficient construction and the Chinese domestic economy That should raise eyebrows. The danger of criticizing China for the wrong need it the most. That's the importance of logical Brilliant teaches you in this What I like about Brilliant is that it makes through interactive puzzles, riddles, and They have courses on everything from programming Click the link on screen now and the first premium subscription. You can even gift a Go, pick what interests you