In 1796, at the height of the French Revolutionary Wars, a young French general took command of a battered, demoralized army in northern Italy. This was his first combat assignment. Many expected him to fail. But within a month he brilliantly conducted his first campaign. With astonishing self-confidence, courage and energy... he led his army to victory after victory... changing the course of the war in Europe... earning the praise of an admiring Republic... and creating a legend... This is the story of Napoleon Bonaparte's first campaign and the dawn of a new era. TITLES 1792. Europe is engulfed in conflict caused by the revolution in France. At first it seems that this young republic will be quickly destroyed by its neighbors. But, oddly enough, France survived thanks to the mobilization of the masses, patriotic fervor and its traditional military might. In 1795, France occupies the Netherlands... and Prussia and Spain withdraw from the war. However, the French Republic still faces a powerful coalition of adversaries that includes the Austrian Empire... Sardinia-Piedmont... Naples... and Great Britain... as well as a counter-revolutionary uprising in the Vendee in western France. In Paris, the most determined revolutionaries were overthrown and sent to the guillotine, like many before them. France is now governed by the Directorate, a more moderate five-member committee that is quickly gaining a reputation for corruption and ineffective government. However, in 1796 they plan a major military offensive to drive their most dangerous enemy, Austria, out of the war. Two main armies under General Jourdan and General Moreau would operate along the Rhine. A third army, from which much less results are expected, will operate in Northern Italy. The French &quot;Italian Army&quot; is short of money, supplies, and soldiers due to the strengthening of French troops on the Rhine. But her fate will soon change. March 2, 1796 The Directory appoints a new commander at the head of the army - one of the youngest generals of France, Napoleon Bonaparte. March 25 Napoleon arrives at the headquarters of the Italian Army in Nice. He is only 26 years old. 2 years have passed since he secured victory for France at the siege of Toulon. Since then, his fate has been ambiguous: short service as an artillery commander in Italy; ten days in prison when his political backers fell from power; refusal to serve in the Vendee, where the fight against French counter-revolutionaries was taking place, and several months without work in Paris. Then - an unexpected turn: 13 Vendemieres, Paris. A royalist mob threatens to storm the national government. Napoleon, the closest general who was in the capital, was appointed to lead its defense. He disperses the crowd with brutal efficiency... and is hailed as the &quot;savior of the revolution.&quot; The Directory promotes Napoleon to the rank of divisional general and entrusts him with command of the Italian army. On March 9, he marries his great love, Josephine de Beauharnais, and two days later he goes to the front. The Italian Army includes French generals who have a greater claim to command than Napoleon: Serurier, a professional military man who first fought in the Seven Years' War, ten years before Napoleon was born. Augereau, a tough, experienced soldier, a daring tactician and a staunch republican. And Massena, rising from the ranks, fearless, tireless, hero of the Battle of Loano with the Austrians a year earlier. All three would later become marshals of the Napoleonic Empire. While Napoleon seems young and insufficiently experienced to these veterans... a political appointee, absurdly in love with his wife. But there was something about the Corsican. As Massena noted, "his small stature and frail face did not favor him... but Napoleon impresses above all with his tireless energy. And he has a lot to do. His army includes the Massena Guard, consisting of two divisions, one led by the intrepid Swiss General La Harpe, and the other by Meinier, whom Napoleon would soon deem incompetent. The main core of the army is formed by divisions led by Augereau and Serurier, as well as two smaller divisions led by Macquart and Garnier. The cavalry is commanded by General Stengel. But the Italian army suffered terrible neglect from the Directory. People are starving, they are not being paid, and some units are on the verge of mutiny. Some don't even have shoes or muskets. Napoleon inspects the troops and studies reports. He enforces discipline and eliminates rotten parts. He is helped by adjutants - Junot, Marmont and the brave cavalry colonel Joachim Murat. Once Napoleon became emperor, he would make two of them dukes and the third a king. The most valuable assistant is the new chief of staff, General Berthier, who helps him reorganize the army's supply system, conduct an audit in the south of France in search of food, transport and fodder. The situation is starting to improve. But Napoleon knows what will truly revive his battered divisions: victory in battle and the promise of plunder. Napoleon spent two years studying the situation in Northern Italy and the history of past wars in this region. He developed clear plans for the campaign. Now he has to bring them to life. Napoleon, with 38,000 soldiers, outnumbers the Piedmontese and Austrians. But if they unite, he will be in the minority. Therefore, he must prevent this at all costs. His strategy reflects what would later be called Napoleonic military prowess: A bold, swift attack... not on the intended target of Genoa, but on Dego. There he will take a strategic position, dividing the opponents. He knows that if threatened, the Piedmontese will retreat to their capital Turin, the Austrians to Milan. By dividing his enemies, without being able to support each other, he will be able to inflict a decisive defeat on each of them. The implementation of Napoleon's plan will be facilitated by the instability of the Austro-Piedmontese alliance: after many years of rivalry, they treat each other with deep mistrust. The new Austrian commander, General Beaulieu, is experienced and was considered very energetic in his time. But now he is already 70 years old... and he does not know Italy. He is confident that the French will attack Genoa, a port used by the British to supply their coalition allies... He is so convinced that he rejects the Piedmontese plans for close cooperation. Their troops remain scattered across the mountain passes as part of a general defense against the invasion. On April 4, Napoleon moves his headquarters to Albenga in preparation for the offensive. But Beaulieu strikes first. On April 10, Austrian troops capture Voltri to thwart the expected French attack on Genoa. The small French garrison retreats to join Massena's vanguard at Savona. But Beaulieu's fixation on Genoa plays into Napoleon's hands. Dego, the key link between the Piedmontese and Austrian armies, is defended by only 8,000 soldiers from Argenteau's corps. Due to the mountainous terrain, Beaulieu would only be able to go to Argenteau's aid through Acqui - more than 32 km to the north. Moreover, Argenteau was ordered to occupy the French positions at Montenotte in order to divert attention from the attack on Voltri. But the French are holding on bravely. Particularly distinguished was Corporal Rouache, who exposed himself to enemy fire in order to fire at the enemy. His commander, Colonel Rampon, tells his men: "Here we must win or die." - This moment quickly entered the military folklore of France. This is an ideal situation for Napoleon - the enemy's attention is focused on Voltri, and Argento's corps is defenseless. He wastes no time. He sends La Harpe's division to help Rampon's troops, and Massena makes a difficult night march along steep ravines, in the rain and in fog, to cover Argenteau's right flank. By dawn the Austrians find themselves outnumbered, flanked and under heavy attack... They retreat in disarray. Napoleon orders Massena to move towards Dego, while he turns his attention to the Piedmontese. However, Augereau's advance at Cosseria is losing momentum. The old castle is held by Piedmontese and Croatian grenadiers. French carry out frontal attacks under withering fire and suffer numerous losses. When the colonel of the 18th demi-brigade dies, 26-year-old Louis-Gabriel Suchet takes command. "I have never seen such fire," wrote Marmont, Napoleon's aide-de-camp. Despite desperate resistance, the outnumbered garrison surrenders the next day. With Serurier's division also advancing from the south, the Piedmontese commander, General Colli, has no choice but to abandon his position at Montezemolo. On the same day, under the watchful eye of Napoleon, Massena takes Dego. While La Harpe's division moves to reinforce Augereau, the hungry French troops remaining in Dego are engaged in robbery and looting. No one notices Colonel Vukasovic, a strong Croatian commander, approaching with 3 thousand reinforcements. He attacks at dawn, defeats the French and captures Dego with ease. In order to knock Vukasovic out of Dego, it is necessary to recall Laharpe's division and spend another day of heavy fighting. The bayonet charge under the command of 27-year-old Colonel Lannes deserved particular praise from General Bonaparte . In 4 days, Napoleon won three victories. The marches and battles were grueling. But he achieved his first goal: the Austrians regrouped at Acqui and soon retreated to Alessandria. They cannot provide any support to the Piedmontese. In this regard, General Colley orders another retreat to a strong defensive position across the Corsalia River. Napoleon orders an immediate attack: Augereau's Division on the right, Serurier on the left, and Massena supporting the attack. But the French, under heavy fire, had difficulty crossing the swollen river with steep banks. When Serurier's troops enter San Michele, they immediately begin to plunder the city and are driven back by a counterattack. Despite his success, Collie is still greatly outnumbered and wary of being surrounded. The evening of the next day, he begins a secret retreat to Mondovi. But Napoleon was not deceived by the fictitious fires... Patrols confirm his suspicions - the Piedmontese are retreating. Tired, wet and hungry, Napoleon's troops rush in pursuit of the enemy. The troops overtake Kolli before he can create a new defensive line... The brave and beloved General Disha dies... The retreat turns into defeat. The French enter Mondovi in triumph... where they can finally, for a short time, eat and rest. General Colley, defeated and demoralized, asks for a truce. Napoleon denies the request as his troops descend from the mountains onto the fertile plain of Piedmont. Emaciated and hungry, French soldiers begin to plunder Italian settlements. Brigadier General Joubert expresses disappointment in the behavior of his subordinates. "Everything would be very good if the soldiers did not rush to rob. Not a day goes by without some looter being shot. But even the severity of the punishment does not stop this vicious practice: local residents take up arms..." Napoleon condemns this behavior, but his orders are limited, especially since everyone knows Generals Massena and Augereau as outstanding disciplinarians. On April 25, French troops entered Cherasco, located 50 km south of the Piedmontese capital of Turin. Meanwhile, General Beaulieu. finally comes to the aid of Piedmont. But he is a week late. Having learned that Piedmont has begun negotiations with the enemy, he indignantly withdraws his troops, planning to take new positions along the Po River. Along the way, Austrian troops join in the plunder of Piedmontese villages. Victor Amadeus III, king of Sardinia and Piedmont, sees no other choice but to accept the peace terms put forward by Bonaparte. Piedmont must give up the strategically important fortresses of Cuneo, Alessandria and Tortona, leaving the country practically defenseless. The final version of the peace treaty, signed three weeks later in Paris, provided for the transfer of Nice and Savoy to France and the granting of free passage to French troops. Napoleon ended the four-year war with Piedmont in less than 3 weeks. The Italian army has little time to rest on its laurels. Four days later, having received 7,000 reinforcements and fresh supplies, she was on the move again. Napoleon plans to invade the rich province of Lombardy, under the rule of the Austrian Emperor, and defeat Beaulieu's army. But first he must cross the Po River, which is closely watched by Austrian troops. This will be one of Napoleon's most brilliant maneuvers. Massena received orders to create the appearance of preparations for crossing the river at Sale, to assemble boats and build gun batteries. Meanwhile, Napoleon formed a new elite brigade: 5 thousand grenadiers, carabiners and chaseurs as the vanguard of the army under the command of General Dallemagne. These troops were ordered to quickly advance east towards Piacenza and cover 65 km in just 36 hours. They are followed by La Harpe's division, followed by Augereau and the cavalry. Having learned of the French advance to the east, Beaulieu began to regroup his forces, also taking into account the possibility of French troops crossing the Po River west of Valenza. This uncertainty does not allow him to concentrate his forces. Moreover, he completely underestimated the scale and speed of Napoleon's actions. On May 7, the French vanguard, led by Colonel Lannes, crosses the Po, pursuing Austrian patrols, which are the only enemy. By the next morning, most of La Harpe's and Augereau's divisions, as well as the cavalry, had crossed, strengthening the French bridgehead... Massena and Serurrier were moving towards the crossing as quickly as they could. The closest Austrian units are soldiers from General Liptai's division. They take up defensive positions at Fombio, but as a result of the French attack they are defeated. In the evening, Beaulieu's vanguard arrives, hoping to reinforce Liptai. Instead, they come across La Harpe's division. During the chaotic night battle, General LaHarpe is killed, possibly by friendly fire. Napoleon considered him one of the best generals in the army, and his death is a big blow. Beaulieu, realizing that the French in full force had crossed the Po and were now threatening to cut it off, gave the order for a quick retreat to the east. Milan must be sacrificed. The next refuge will be the great fortress of Mantua. The French vanguard soon begins pursuit. On the morning of May 10, they overtake the Austrian rearguard at Lodi. French troops chase the Austrians through the city... and reach a 180-meter bridge over the Adda River. But when they try to go further, they find that the bridge is under fire from 14 guns. The far end of the bridge is held by 3 battalions of Croatian infantry. Behind them in reserve are several more battalions and squadrons of cavalry - a total of about 6.5 thousand people. Napoleon soon arrives and sets up cannons on the shore to fire at the Austrians. The artillery duel lasts almost the entire afternoon. Napoleon sends Beaumont's cavalry brigade upstream in search of a ford to cross the river and outflank the Austrian defenses. But he begins to lose patience. Massena's division approached from the south, bringing the army's strength to 15,000 men and 30 guns. Napoleon addresses the infantry, encouraging them to dare to take the bridge, and gives the order to move forward. To the shouts of &quot;Long live the Republic!&quot; The seasoned 2nd Carabinieri Battalion goes on the attack. They come under heavy fire from Austrian guns. But under the leadership of Napoleon, Berthier, Massena, Lannes and others, the French infantry breaks through the bridge. In the face of this irresistible onslaught, the Austrian forward line collapses. And the French cavalry, having crossed the river in the north, begins an organized movement towards the Austrian rearguard. Five days after the victory at Lodi, Napoleon at the head of his army entered Milan. They are greeted by cheering crowds, although in fact the attitude of the Italians towards the French is extremely contradictory. After Lodi, French soldiers acquired a new nickname for their general - &quot;le petit caporal&quot;, the little corporal. This is a respectful nickname because he is not he is afraid to get his hands dirty, even aims the guns himself - the job of an artillery corporal. In just a month, Napoleon transformed a war-weary, disheveled and demoralized army into a victorious fighting force, brimming with self-esteem and eager for new conquests. Already in his first campaign, he demonstrated extraordinary energy... mastery of detail... brilliant military intuition... and most importantly, unshakable faith in himself. It is this quality that inspires his soldiers to risk their lives... for glory, for the sake of the republic... and for the sake of the man they will in the future proclaim as their emperor. In 1796, at the height of the French Revolutionary Wars, a young French This was his first combat assignment. Many expected him to fail. With astonishing self-confidence, Europe... earning the praise of an admiring Republic... and creating a legend... May 1796. The French Revolutionary Wars are now in their fifth year. And on that front, which many consider to be of secondary importance, amazing events take place... The 26-year-old general of the French Republic, Napoleon Bonaparte, led a lightning campaign across Northern Italy... defeated Sardinia-Piedmont... and drove the Austrians back from Lombardy. 2,000 Austrian soldiers remain in the citadel of Milan, but they fail to prevent Napoleon's triumphal entry into the city on 15 May. Now the French general sits in the Palazzo Serbelloni, issuing decrees on behalf of the Paris Directory, while his troops enjoy a few days of rest. Lombardy becomes a French subsidiary state, receiving the name Transpadane Republic. Political and economic reforms are sweeping away the old Austrian order... to the delight of the Italian intelligentsia in cities like Milan. But the French are also demanding 20 million francs to finance the war... and their troops are requisitioning huge amounts of food, horses, livestock and shoes. But most of all, Italian priests and peasants are outraged by the attacks on the property and property of the Catholic Church. Such news becomes a gift for anti-French propagandists. On May 23, when Napoleonic troops set out in pursuit of the Austrians, an uprising broke out in Pavia. The next day, riots break out in Milan. Napoleon rushes into the city, where order is soon restored. But on the way to Pavia, in Binasco, he encounters a thousand armed rebels. Colonel Lannes' grenadiers defeated the peasants, killed a hundred people and burned the village. "A terrible lesson that can have an effect," writes Napoleon. The next day Pavia was taken with minimal resistance. Several leaders, including priests, are shot. To ensure further cooperation, hundreds of hostages are taken from prominent local families. Napoleon resumes his advance to the east, his army now consists of four divisions - the vanguard of Quilmen... Augereau. Massena... and Serurier. The Austrian army of General Beaulieu was located on the line of the Mincio River, to the right of which is Lake Garda, and to the left the great fortress of Mantua. Together with the fortresses of Peschiera... Verona... and Legnago... form the famous "quadrangle" - four bastions that consolidate Austrian dominance in Northern Italy. But Beaulieu again failed to unravel Napoleon's plans. He scatters his troops in an attempt to defend four potential crossing points and is distracted by false preparations to cross Lake Garda by boat. In fact, Napoleon decided to cross the Mincio at Borghetto... And when the advanced guard of Kilmenya arrives on the spot, the bridge is defended by only one battalion of infantry and a handful of hussars. The Austrians were soon driven back... but a sudden counterattack almost led to the death of General Bonaparte himself. In a possibly dramatized story, he, fleeing from the hussars, jumps over the fence in one boot. The result of this successful rescue was the formation of an elite cavalry detachment to personally accompany Napoleon. They received the name Compagnie des Guides a Cheval, and their commander was the young cavalry captain Jean-Baptiste Bessieres. Over time, this unit will turn into the famous Chasseurs a Cheval of the Imperial Guard - the emperor's permanent bodyguards on campaigns. Taken by surprise by the crossing at Borghetto, Beaulieu begins to retreat to a new defensive line in the Adige Valley. However, in Mantua he leaves a reinforced garrison, well equipped and ready to withstand a siege for at least two months. Napoleon will not be able to bypass Mantua - the garrison is too strong. But the fortress city will be a difficult test - its old walls are surrounded on three sides by a lake, and on the other by swamps affected by malaria. "The most dangerous place in Italy," Napoleon reports to the Directory. The biggest problem is the lack of heavy siege artillery. Most of the guns are in Milan, firing at the Austrians holed up in the citadel. More guns were to arrive by sea, but they were intercepted by English warships under the command of one Commodore Horatio Nelson. Since April, Napoleon had waged three successful offensive campaigns, marched more than 320 km and won ten battles. But finally, at the walls of Mantua, he was stopped. And the demands on his limited forces are ever increasing. He must maintain the siege of Mantua, even though its guns outnumber his own and a direct assault is impossible. He must protect his communications with France... and prevent an uprising in Lombardy. And he must be prepared to meet the Austrians, who are receiving reinforcements from Germany and will soon launch a counterattack. Adding to his problems, the French Directory requires him to lead a campaign into central and southern Italy. He must threaten military occupation unless these states contribute huge sums to finance France's war effort. Napoleon categorically objects to this idea. The march of troops across Italy at the height of summer, he warns, will end in &quot;disease and death.&quot; Fortunately, with only strong words it is possible to convince Naples to sign a truce... And in the end, Napoleon does not even have to reach Rome. The French march through the Duchy of Modena, the Papal States and the Grand Duchy of Tuscany, collecting more than 40 million francs in tribute from states powerless to resist. Before returning to Milan, Napoleon dines in Florence with the Grand Duke. There he meets his wife Josephine, who arrived from Paris accompanied by her new lover. Napoleon does not stay in Milan. His citadel finally fell, releasing the siege engines. His troops captured another 150 guns from forts in central Italy. Now Napoleon can seriously plan to take Mantua. And he has no time to waste. In Tyrol, the reinforced Austrian army, under the leadership of a new commander, begins to operate. There is no more pain. Now in command is 72-year-old Field Marshal Count von Wurmser, a brave cavalryman, energetic beyond his years and determined to avenge the Austrian defeats in Italy. After crossing the Mincio, Napoleon reorganized and regrouped his troops. General Massena's division is at Rivoli, watching the road to the Tyrol. Two of his brigades, under the command of General Soret, are in Salo, watching the western shore of Lake Garda. General Despinois's division supports him at Peschiera. General Augereau's division is in the Legnago area, controlling the eastern approaches... Kilmen's cavalry is on patrol. General Serurier's division is leading the siege of Mantua itself. But Napoleon's hopes for a quick end to the siege are in vain. The Austrian garrison holds a skillful and active defense, making forays into French positions and capturing supplies. Murat, recently promoted to brigadier general, plans to transport a group of men in Austrian uniform across the lake at night. to take the sentries by surprise. But the operation is disrupted when the water level suddenly drops. The French intensify shelling of the city, firing more than a thousand cannon and mortar shells in 6 hours. Explosions are heard in Mantua, but its walls have not yet been breached. Napoleon doesn't have time. Field Marshal Wurmser finally comes to the aid of Mantua. He divided his army into four columns. The two central columns advance along the Adige valley towards Mantua. Another column in the east moves in a wide flank march... The fourth column, under the command of General Kvozdanovich, moves along the western shore of Lake Garda, planning to capture Brescia and cut Napoleon's line of retreat. Massena is subjected to a powerful attack and, greatly outnumbered, leaves Rivoli and begins a military retreat. As soon as this news reaches Napoleon, he rushes to Castelnuovo, ordering Augereau, Despinois and Quilmenu to join him as quickly as possible. But unexpectedly, it is Kvozdanovich's column that becomes the biggest threat. General Soret's troops in Salo are greatly outnumbered . They put up stubborn resistance, but are forced to retreat. The next day, Austrian troops take the French by surprise near Brescia. They capture the city, as well as the army hospital, which housed 2 thousand French sick and wounded. Even Napoleon's wife Josephine, on her way to Brescia, is nearly captured in the chaos. Wurmser saw off Napoleon. He has already lost 5 thousand people killed and wounded, his left flank is broken, and there is a real threat of encirclement. This is the biggest challenge he has faced as an army commander, and it will force him to make a difficult decision. On July 31, after two months of blood, sweat and sacrifice, General Serurier receives orders to lift the siege of Mantua. He must send two of his brigades to reinforce Massena and Augereau, and with the rest of his troops withdraw to protect the army's line of retreat. 179 guns, as well as ammunition and provisions that could not be transported, will be buried or dumped in the swamps. Napoleon needs every man. Indeed, in the midst of a crisis, he sensed an opportunity. Kvozdanovich's offensive took him by surprise. But Lake Garda separates him from the rest of the Austrian army. Napoleon would concentrate his forces against Kvozdanovich, defeat him in battle, and then turn again towards Wurmser. Soon the French divisions go on the offensive. Kvozdanovich's troops reach Lonato, but here they encounter Massena's vanguard. The Austrians came under heavy attack and were forced to retreat after the arrival of French reinforcements. The next day the French recapture Brescia along with most of their supplies, sick and wounded. And then luck smiled on Napoleon. Wurmser was hot on the heels of Massena, pursuing his rearguard to Peschiera. But now he receives a message that French troops are concentrated between him and Mantua. Mantua is his priority, so he turns south - away from Kvozdanovich - towards the city that Napoleon has already abandoned. By the time Wurmser realizes his mistake, it is already too late. He gave Napoleon 24 decisive hours - a mistake for which he would pay dearly. On August 3, intense fighting broke out west of Lake Garda. One French brigade makes its way undetected through the wooded ravines straight into Salo, creating chaos in the Austrian ranks. But the Austrians repulse three attacks on Gavardo - and everything seems to be going well until their own offensive collides with Massena's division at Lonato. Massena's counterattack is led by the 32nd Demi-Brigade, which has become one of the most formidable units of the Italian Army. "Only bayonets," Napoleon calls, "and you, the 32nd, will retain your glorious reputation." The vanguard Austrian brigade is defeated. Colonel Junot, despite being wounded six times, accepts the surrender of their commander. Kvozdanovich's forces were defeated. Fearing for his army and having received no news from Wurmser, he decides that he needs to go back around Lake Garda to join the army. On the same day, 25 km to the south, General Augereau's division is conducting aggressive rearguard battles at Castiglione, holding off Wurmser while Napoleon deals with Kvozdanovich. Augereau launches a bold attack on General Liptai's vanguard, pushing him to the high ground near Solferino. But here Liptai receives constant reinforcements, as the rest of the Austrian army begins to arrive. Augereau does not weaken the onslaught, preventing the advance of the Austrians. And although the enemy cavalry makes a belated charge on the left flank, it does not find support and soon retreats. For Augereau and his men it was a long and heroic day of fighting against overwhelming odds that Napoleon would never forget. 12 years later, having become emperor, he will make Augereau Duke of Castiglione and will always remind his critics: "That day he saved us." However, by nightfall, Augereau's division is on the verge of retreat. &quot;Our soldiers are exhausted from fatigue and hunger. If you don't send me reinforcements, I won't be able to hold out.&quot; The next morning, French troops resume their attack on Kvozdanovich and quickly find him in a hasty retreat. Disaster is narrowly avoided when three lost Austrian battalions stumble upon Napoleon's headquarters in Lonato. They demand the general's surrender. In response, Napoleon loudly orders his grenadiers and artillery into position, and then demands that the Austrians surrender or face death by the sword. This is a bold bluff - after all, there are almost no troops nearby - but the Austrians obediently lay down their arms. As Napoleon deploys his army to attack Wurmser, the Austrians must decide whether to stand their ground or retreat to a stronger line across the Mincio River. Wurmser decides to stay put. By engaging Napoleon, he hoped to buy time to regroup and resume Kvozdanovich's offensive, as well as to resupply in Mantua. He makes good sense, but his intelligence is out of date... and he underestimated the speed of Napoleonic forces' advance. At dawn on August 5, the Austrian army is 6 km east of Castiglione, lined up in two lines: the northern flank near the village of Solferino, the southern flank near the well-fortified redoubt of Monte Medolano. Napoleon opposes him with Massena's division in the north, Augereau's division in the center and Quilmen's cavalry in the south. In addition, he formed an elite detachment of grenadiers and cavalry, which must be held until the decisive moment. It would seem that Napoleon has no special advantage. But another 10,000 soldiers are rapidly moving onto the battlefield. 5,000 under the command of General Despinois, coming from Brescia... Another 5,000 under the command of General Fiorella, advancing from the south. To buy time before reinforcements arrive and lure Wurmser out of his position, Napoleon orders Massena and Augereau to attack. A short shootout ensues. The French then begin to simulate a retreat. The Austrians take the bait: some units retreat from the hill... and Wurmser advances his right flank, trying to bypass Massena's division. Around 9 a.m., the sound of gunfire from the south alerts both sides to the appearance of Fiorella behind the Austrian left flank. Napoleon immediately gives the order to Augereau and Massena to attack again, but this time in earnest. Despinois' troops join the attack. But Napoleon slammed his trap too quickly. Wurmser has not yet had time to direct everyone to attack and reacts quickly. He organizes a new line to defend against Fiorella and hastily withdraws his right flank. But he fails to maintain his position at the Monte Medolano redoubt. Napoleon's adjutant, Major Marmont, brings the battery forward to open fire on the position. Its guns unleash a devastating cannonade, clearing the way for the attack. At about 10 a.m. the reserve grenadiers move forward with bayonets fixed and sweep the Austrians off the hill. Meanwhile, in the north, the 4th and 5th Demi-Brigades burst onto the heights of Solferino and capture the redoubt in front of Pozzo Catena. Moving forward, they storm the Solferino Tower and the village beyond, the shocked enemy retreating in disarray. The Austrians are struggling to hold their position, and now the French cavalry and Fiorell's troops threaten to cut off their escape. While Napoleon is active, energetic, leading his troops forward, Wurmser seems to be in shock. The French emigrant who served with him recalled: "He watched, seeing nothing, saying nothing, hearing nothing. This brave old man, whose head was covered with gray hair, no longer understood anything." Finally, Wurmser gives the order for a general retreat across the Mincio River, covered by his cavalry and Austrian reinforcements that arrived in time. The French persecution quickly fades away. After a week of forced marching in the stifling heat, without food or drink, Napoleon's soldiers were completely exhausted. But their general is pleased with what has been achieved. Wurmser's army finds temporary refuge across the Mincio River. Soon Napoleon resumes his offensive. Massena is sent north to relieve the French garrison at Peschiera and threaten Wurmser's line of retreat. The Austrian general began to get nervous. After making sure that the garrison of Mantua is fully replenished and equipped, he begins to retreat to Tyrol to regroup and think things over. The French are hot on his heels. Napoleon had just passed his most difficult test as army commander. And although he was initially baffled by his opponent, he showed brilliant flexibility and characteristic energy to withstand the blow and then win. But Mantua remains the key to Italy. And as long as she remains unconquered, the Austrians will do everything possible to save her. Wurmser will return... and when he returns, he will find himself face to face with Napoleon, who will launch an attack... on Austria itself. In 1796, at the height of the French Revolutionary Wars, a young French This was his first combat assignment. Many expected him to fail. With astonishing self-confidence, Europe... earning the praise of an admiring Republic... and creating a legend... August 1796. The war between the young French Republic and the coalition appears to be tilting in France's favor. In the Vendee, General Gauche put an end to a three-year royalist uprising. This horrific civil war claimed an estimated 165,000 lives and was the bloodiest chapter of the French Revolution. Bourbon Spain entered into an alliance with France - they will have to join forces against a common enemy, Great Britain. In Germany, the armies of General Jourdan and General Moreau have crossed the Rhine and are advancing on Vienna. In Italy, Napoleon's stunning victory at Castiglione forced the Austrians to flee back to Tyrol. Now Napoleon can resume the siege of Mantua, the "key to Italy." But he will have to start all over again..... The Austrians took advantage of the respite to remove the heavy guns and destroy the siege works. In summer, the toxic swamps surrounding the city become deadly. The Austrian garrison suffers from disease - mainly malaria. General Serurier, who commanded the French siege, also falls ill. He returns to France to improve his health and is replaced by General Sayuge. Disease and shortages of equipment again plague the French army in Italy. Even hero-general Massena asks to be transferred to another place, citing poor health and exhaustion. Napoleon rejects his request. Despite these problems, the Paris Directory orders Napoleon to go on the offensive as part of a grand strategic plan against Austria. He must break through to Innsbruck... link up with Moreau's Army of the Rhine... then together invade Austria and force Emperor Franz to sue for peace. Napoleon is dealing with an enemy of approximately equal numbers. Therefore, he plans to use speed and concentration of forces to attack the Austrian forces in the Adige Valley and clear the way to the north. His opponent, Austrian Field Marshal von Wurmser, is under great pressure from his fellow soldiers to liberate Mantua. His headquarters believes that as a result of recent fighting, the French army is defeated and incapable of offensive action. Therefore, the Austrians are planning to launch their own offensive. Instead of trying to fight through the French forces in the Adige Valley, Wurmser would keep Davidovich on the defensive... while he led a wide flank march... through the Brenta and Bassano valleys... to reach Mantua from the east. There he will join her garrison. And when Napoleon marches south to face him, he will find himself between two Austrian armies. The Austrians begin their offensive on September 1st. French troops begin their offensive the next day. Massena advances up the Adige valley, while Augereau takes the more difficult, mountainous route to his right. General Vaubois marches around Lake Garda to join them, with one brigade crossing by boat. The advanced Austrian outposts were defeated. And on the 4th, three French divisions converged with the vastly superior forces of Davidovich near Rovereto. General Victor leads the main attack directly along the road, pushing back the enemy center. Meanwhile, French light infantry make their way along the slopes of the valley to outflank the enemy. This was a tactic the French would use again and again to force the Austrians out of strong positions in narrow passes. The Austrians are driven up the valley to Davidovich's main camp at Calliano. As Napoleon notes, this position must have been impregnable - sheer mountains on either side of the valley only a few hundred meters wide. A small castle and walls complement the formidable natural defense. But its defense was entrusted to a single, battered Austrian regiment, which was not given time to prepare. When the French hit them quickly and hard, they surrender. Massena's troops break through to the main Austrian camp, where the soldiers, who were expecting a much longer respite, are preparing dinner. The arrival of the French leads to chaos and confusion. The Austrian retreat route immediately becomes crowded with fleeing soldiers, carts and cannons. The French capture about 3,000 prisoners, as well as 25 cannons and 7 standards. Napoleon believed that the entire Austrian army was opposing him in the Trento area. But now, communicating with prisoners and local residents, he learns that Wurmser with half of his army went down the Brenta valley - the goal is unknown. With typical speed and decisiveness, Napoleon cancels the plan to link up with Moreau at Innsbruck... and orders pursuit. If he can catch and destroy Wurmser before he reaches safety, the war in Italy will be won. When Wurmser receives news of the fiasco at Calliano, his troops are already stretched across the Brenta valley and the vanguard is approaching Vicenza. Turning back won't do anything. He orders Davidovich to hold the northern passes - assuming they are Napoleon's target - while he continues to move towards Mantua. But Napoleon is not going to go north. He orders Vaubois to pursue and blockade Davidovich... while Augereau's division leads the rest of the army through the narrow, sinkhole-like Brenta valley in pursuit of the Austrians. The Italian army is full of confidence and moves much faster than the Austrians. The small force at Levico puts up little resistance and then flees down the Brenta valley. The next day, French light infantry defeats the 3,000-strong Austrian rearguard at Primolano, taking most of them prisoner. Wurmser decides to camp at Bassano, where the valley opens onto a flat plain. Colonel Lannes leads the attack, the Austrians retreat, and then Murat's cavalry pursues them into the city. Amid panic, chaos and blocked roads, the French take another 2,000 prisoners, including an Austrian general, and 30 guns. Wurmser is in disarray - he is down to 12,000 men, outnumbered two to one, and with some of his troops retreating in the wrong direction towards Trieste. His only hope is to reach Mantua. The two armies race - but for the first time in the campaign, Austrian soldiers are ahead of their exhausted French opponents. Wurmser leaves a small garrison at the Legnago fortress to slow down Augereau's pursuit. Moving forward, Massena managed to block the Austrians' path at Cerea. But General Ott launched a decisive attack and cleared the road, capturing 700 French prisoners and seven guns. This is a rare defeat for Massena. With the help of a local informant, Wurmser finds an intact, unguarded bridge over the Tione River and reaches the outskirts of Mantua on September 13. His army was saved from death literally by a thread. Napoleon failed to prevent Wurmser from reaching Mantua. But he knows that if he manages to keep him in the city, it will create an intolerable strain on his supplies. Therefore, Wurmser seeks to keep his army outside the city walls in order to be able to maneuver and, most importantly, obtain provisions in the surrounding area. The next morning, as Augereau accepts the surrender of the Austrian garrison at Legnago, Massena launches a surprise attack on Douai Castelli. But this is too ambitious. His men did not have time to recover after a long march, but the Austrians fought bravely. The next day, Napoleon launches a larger and more coordinated attack. The Sayuge division advances from the right. Soon his troops entered into heavy fighting with Ott's brigade near the village of La Favorita. Augereau's division, under the temporary command of General Bon, advances along the Mincio River, trying to break the Austrian right flank. As Wurmser sends reserves from the center to reinforce both flanks... Massena's sheltered division launches an attack. Victor and Rampon lead their veteran semi-brigades into battle. The Austrian cavalry rushes at the French, but they are repulsed. Fierce fighting on the outskirts of Mantua continues for most of the afternoon. Finally, Wurmser's center begins to crumble and the French take San Giorgio. Most of the Austrian right wing is cut off. Many are forced to surrender, others flee to the lake. The Austrian line is broken, and Wurmser orders his men to retreat... to the safety of the citadel of Mantua. The troops that were supposed to save Mantua were now trapped along with its garrison. By early October, the French had completely blockaded the city and resumed the siege. Living conditions in Mantua are rapidly deteriorating. Disease, wounds and malnutrition kill an average of about 100 Austrian soldiers every day... for six weeks. The civilian population is forced to subsist on rats and horses. Napoleon, meanwhile, returns to Milan and sends his adjutant Marmont to Paris to present the 22 captured Austrian standards to the Directory. But in other regions the war is not going so well for France. Archduke Charles, the younger brother of Emperor Franz, defeated the army of General Jourdan twice in two weeks. He and General Moreau's Army of the Rhine are forced to retreat to the border. These failures meant that Napoleon would receive very few of the reinforcements he so urgently requested. He and his men are exhausted. Many of them are sick. They have to hold off a huge and increasingly desperate garrison in Mantua... Knowing that the Austrians will soon try to save the city again. There are diplomatic problems that also worry Napoleon. In Rome, the Pope incites hatred of the French, citing their attitude towards the Catholic Church in the territories they rule. These territories include the Cispadane Republic, formed in part from the Duchy of Modena, which Napoleon abolished for colluding with the enemy. In addition, there remains the threat that Naples might re-enter the war at a critical moment in order to stab him in the back. Therefore, in order to secure his southern flank, Napoleon concludes a comprehensive peace treaty with Naples, without bothering to consult the Directory. Such actions fuel rumors in Paris - the ambitions of this popular young general seem limitless... will he one day prove to be a dangerous political player? But these conversations will lose meaning if Napoleon fails in Italy. In the autumn of that year, when Austrian troops again go to the aid of Mantua, he will face his most skillful opponent - Feldzeichmeister Joseph Alvinczy - the first man to defeat Napoleon Bonaparte in battle. October 1796. Six months have passed since General Napoleon Bonaparte took command of the French army in Italy. During this time, he carried out a number of brilliant operations against the Austrians and won several battles. Now it looks like he is close to final victory. He pushed the Austrian troops back from the plains of Northern Italy towards the Alps... While his troops besieged the large fortress city of Mantua - "the key to Italy". The enormously large Austrian garrison of Mantua is on the verge of starvation and plagued by disease. Napoleon calls on his commander, Field Marshal von Wurmser, to surrender. &quot;The brave must face danger, not the swamp plague!&quot; - he reproaches. But Wurmser is a tough old veteran. He won't give up as long as there is some glimmer of hope left. And he knows that in the north... Austria is gathering fresh troops to march to his aid. True, many of them are border guards - a type of Habsburg border militia, poorly trained and lacking officers. But they help bring the size of the Austrian army to 44,000. And they will be led by Feldzeichmeister Josef Alvinczy. The 61-year-old Hungarian was once the military mentor of Emperor Franz himself and is considered diligent, tenacious and brave. He and his staff are developing plans for a new offensive to save Wurmser and Mantua. Alvinzi and Kvozdanovich would lead the main column, numbering 26,000 soldiers, from Friuli to Bassano and then to Mantua. Davidovich's corps, reinforced to 18,000 soldiers, would occupy Trento and move south through the Adige valley. At the first opportunity, these two armies will unite. Meanwhile, Wurmser, who can muster only 12,000 troops from the Mantua garrison, will launch many powerful sorties to pin down as many French units as possible. Napoleon, on the contrary, received very few reinforcements from France. His depleted divisions suffer from disease and lack of men, and are outnumbered on all fronts. Alvintsi begins the offensive on October 22. The next day, downpours begin, drenching the soldiers, flooding the rivers and turning the roads into mud. Meanwhile, Napoleon watches with satisfaction as the enemy advances under such conditions, knowing that the effort will exhaust his infantry and disrupt his supplies. On November 2, fighting begins north of Trento, where Napoleon orders Vaubois to attack. He wants to pin Davidovich, but Vaubois is greatly outnumbered and his attack fails. Vaubois begins to retreat to Calliano... and Massena surrenders Bassano and retreats to Vicenza. However, Alvintsi's advance dragged on, slowed by heavy rain and the poor physical preparation of his recruits. But it is not typical for Napoleon to remain passive for so long. When the Austrians cross the Brenta, he orders Massena to attack General Liptai's division at Fontaniva, and Augereau to attack Hohenzollern at Bassano. The French launch dozens of separate attacks. But despite poor discipline on the march, the Austrian recruits held firm and fought desperately. With about 3,000 casualties on each side, the Second Battle of Bassano was the bloodiest day of the Italian campaign--and a setback for Napoleon. Hours later, he receives terrible news from Vaubois. During heavy fighting at Calliano, part of the Croatian troops penetrates behind the French line, causing panic and flight. Vaubois loses almost half his division killed, wounded and missing before he manages to regroup at Rivoli. The French are retreating on all fronts. doomed to a major strategic defeat. Napoleon's position is dangerous. But the careful advance of his enemies gives him some respite. Four whole days pass while Alvintsi and Davidovich coordinate their further actions. Napoleon would not have tolerated such a delay if he had been on the opposite side. When the Austrians finally go on the offensive, it is unsuccessful: the Hohenzollern vanguard approaches Verona to scout reports of a French retreat. This isolated unit is too tempting for Napoleon to ignore. He orders Augereau and Massena to attack. As a result of the attack, the Austrians suffered 400 casualties. But Hohenzollern runs up the hill near Caldiero. The next day, Napoleon orders the attacks to be resumed. But the conditions turned out to be terrible. The French climb up the hill in pouring rain and hail, their boots slipping in the mud, as they are fired upon by the Austrians dug in at the top of the hill. Around noon, Colonel Dupuy's 32nd Demi-Brigade finally climbs the hill. It looks like the French will be able to knock the Austrians out of their positions. But then the Austrian army begins to arrive to support the onslaught of the Hohenzollern division. The French find themselves under threat of being outflanked on both flanks. They take up new defensive positions and hold out until dark... then Napoleon decides to retreat to Verona. It was an unconditional defeat for the French - Napoleon's first defeat in battle. The next day he furiously writes to the Directory in Paris. He has no doubt that they are to blame for his defeat, since they have repeatedly failed to send reinforcements: "We are on the verge of losing Italy. The expected help has not arrived... The Italian army, reduced to a small number of people, is exhausted... Heroes of Lodi , Millesimo, Castiglione and Bassano died for their country or are in hospitals. People have nothing left except their reputation and a sense of pride... We are left to the mercy of fate in the depths of Italy." But despite his apparent desperation, Napoleon had already developed a plan to strike back - a stunningly bold move that would give rise to one of the greatest Napoleonic legends. The Austrians are approaching Verona... Napoleon decides to risk everything by launching a daring surprise attack. Leaving Maccar to cover Verona, he and the rest of the army would move south... cross the Adige River... and move north, threatening to cut Alvinzi's lines of communication and seize his artillery, supplies and equipment. Such losses will force Alvintsi to abandon the offensive. During the night, Augereau and Massena arrive in Ronco undetected. Augereau's men cross the Adige on a pontoon bridge and begin to move north. But with swamps on all sides, they are forced to keep to a narrow, fortified causeway only 20 meters wide... And when they reach Arcole, where they need to cross a bridge to continue north, they find it held by two Croatian battalions. Under heavy fire, the French troops take cover right next to the dam, behind its reverse slope. Reinforcements are sent to them, but they too find themselves pinned down by fire from the far bank. In the morning, Colonel Lann left the hospital so as not to miss the battle. Now he tries to lead the attack, but is wounded in the leg. The ardent Augereau refuses to admit defeat and orders a new attack. But his men are exhausted and demoralized, and three generals are wounded. The attack on Arcola stalled. Hearing shots from the south, Alvintsi assumes that the French are planning a ruse to distract him from his planned attack on Verona. But then comes the alarming news that the French have crossed the Adige and are behind his left flank. He sends two brigades to attack the French bridgehead... and sends Mitrovsky to reinforce him at Arcola. Massena's division, moving northwest to protect the flank of the advance, encounters the Austrians at Bionde. The Austrians initially have the upper hand, but a disastrous friendly fire incident causes panic... and Massena pushes the Austrians back along the causeway. Napoleon became increasingly concerned about the delay at Arcola. If they failed to break through, Alvintsi would have plenty of time to redeploy and thwart any advance. He now orders General Guyot to take two regiments, cross the Adige at Albaredo and lead them up the eastern bank of the Alpone River to strike Arcola from the south. He himself goes to the bridge to try to launch an attack. He discovers hundreds of French soldiers holed up behind a dam, unwilling to face Austrian fire. General Augereau grabs the standard and begins the attack. This highly romanticized image was painted two years later. &quot;Grenadiers!&quot; - he shouts, - "Go and show your banners!" In reality, no one had the courage to follow him. Then the commander of the Italian army himself draws his saber, raises his standard and runs forward. There is withering fire everywhere. Several people fall wounded. His adjutant, Colonel Muiron, is killed. Another adjutant, a Polish officer named Sulkowski, recalls: "The soldiers saw him... and none of them followed him. I witnessed this extraordinary cowardice, and could not understand it." The French infantry refuses to follow their officers, causing the assault on the bridge to fail. A timely counterattack launched by the Austrians pushes them back along the dam. During the battle, Napoleon's horse falls. He falls into a swamp and the adjutants have to pull him out. In the evening, General Guyot launches an attack on Arcole from the south. From this side the defense is not so formidable, and his people fight their way into the village. Arcole finally fell. But that night Guyot's people receive orders to retreat... Napoleon... is preparing to retreat. If Davidovich continued his advance through the Adige valley, as he expected, Napoleon would have to retreat or face encirclement. His bold maneuver appears to have failed. At 4 o'clock in the morning, Napoleon receives a report from Rivoli that changes everything. Vaubois not only still holds the city, but has not even been attacked yet. Napoleon's escape route remains safe - at least for a few more days. That's all he needs to be confident. He immediately calls off the retreat and gives the order to advance. Napoleon lost the element of surprise. And now Alvintsi is planning his own counterattack. During the night his troops advance - Provera to Belfiore... Mitrovsky returns to Arcola. Before dawn, both armies begin to move. Massena sends troops of skirmishers into the swampy area. When the Austrians arrive at the dam, they become easy prey. After a sharp battle in which the Austrian general dies, Massena's men push back the enemy. Augereau, however, cannot get close to Arcola. The Austrians from the other side of the Alpone are still firing at the dam with muskets and cannons. Napoleon orders the troops to cross downstream at Albaredo - but the Austrians now cover the crossing point with two battalions. Attempts by the French to cross the river by boat or by swimming were unsuccessful. The second day of the battle ends in a stalemate. Many soldiers are forced to set up camp in the swamps and look for food and rest. Napoleon will try to break through again... but he has less and less time. Davidovich, who by this time had received several urgent demands from Alvintsi to go on the offensive, finally attacks on November 17. Vaubois' weakened division is defeated. The Austrians take Rivoli and 1,000 prisoners and almost capture Vaubois himself. When Davidovich finally moves, Napoleon must succeed at Arcola or retreat. The bridge in Arcola turned out to be too difficult to pass. Therefore, Napoleon changes tactics. Augereau's division would cross the Alpone and attack Arcole from the south... Another column would be sent 16 kilometers south to cross at Legnago and then rush along the east bank to support him. Massena will move up the causeway to provide support... while protecting the left flank. That night the French build a pontoon bridge across the Alpone. Before dawn, Augereau's division begins the crossing. But at dawn, Austrian artillerymen in Albaredo spot the bridge and hit it, putting it out of action. Only the 51st semi-brigade crosses the bridge , which, nevertheless, begins an attack on Arcola. Massena's progress is also hampered by a destroyed pontoon bridge. To top it off, the Austrians launch an attack on the weak French bridgehead. Napoleon gathers all available guns to fire at the Austrians, and they retreat under heavy fire. Bridges are being restored quickly. But as the French advance, they encounter stubborn resistance on both sides of the Alpone. A bloody battle unfolds along the dams. Neither side can deploy its troops or gain an advantage. Around 15:00, a French column from Legnago arrives, threatening to overwhelm the Austrian flank. Just when it looks like Arcole is about to fall, the Austrians launch a furious counterattack across the bridge. Brigadier General Robert is killed and his troops retreat in disarray. Panic grips the troops. Augereau's men lose their nerve and retreat to the bridge. The critical moment has arrived. But while the enemy has just used up his last reserves, Napoleon can use Massena's uncommitted troops, including the elite 32nd Demi-Brigade. Their sudden counterattack will turn the tide of events. Massena's men sweep across the causeway, taking dozens of prisoners, and Augereau's division resumes its advance. As they approach Arcola, Napoleon resorts to a little &quot;cunning&quot;: 25 of his elite escort enter from the east, blowing a bugle to simulate a massive cavalry charge. In the evening light this is enough to frighten the remaining garrison and force them to leave the village. As the French continue to advance, Alvinzi orders his exhausted and demoralized army to retreat east to Montebello to protect his lines of communication. The three-day battle of Arcola was difficult and bloody, without any special tactical refinements. Napoleon won by a small margin, and a third of his army was killed. But for now he has done enough. Alvintsi retreats, but Davidovic remains a threat. The next day, Napoleon set out at his usual pace with Massena's division to reinforce Vaubois. Augereau takes a different route to threaten the Austrian line of retreat. The ensuing confusion between Alvinczi and Davidovich borders on farce. Alvintsi writes to the corps commander, saying that he will support him by resuming the offensive. But Davidovich, having learned about the defeat at Arcola and being under the direct threat of Napoleon, is already retreating. However, upon receiving Alvinzi's letter, he attempts to turn his army around, which results in such chaos that he is forced to immediately cancel this order and resume his retreat. As a result, both Austrian armies soon retreat. At this moment the valiant old Wurmser chooses the moment to launch a auxiliary attack from Mantua. At least he manages to get much needed supplies... at the cost of 800 men. It was a difficult campaign for Napoleon. By some estimates, he lost more men than the Austrians. He suffered his first defeat in the battle and won a costly, hard-fought victory at Arcola. But... he won and drove the enemy back. Moreover, his heroic behavior on the Arcola bridge will soon take on a life of its own. Artists and pamphleteers are turning a slightly embellished version of events... into sensational PR material that is sweeping France. With the active assistance of Napoleon, the world witnesses the birth of the "Napoleonic legend"... a powerful force that will inspire loyalty and devotion for many years to come. For now, both armies are settling down for the winter, as December brought bitter cold and heavy snow to Northern Italy. In Mantua, the Austrian garrison is at the limit of its strength. Famine is approaching... but Wurmser intends to hold out until the last. The Austrians would have one last chance to save the city - a final offensive that would decide the outcome of the war in Italy. January 1797. The new year has arrived... and with it the usual problems for the 27-year-old General Bonaparte, waging war against the Austrians in Northern Italy. He kept the great fortress city of Mantua under siege, and after the victory at Arcola, he again pushed back the Austrian troops who tried to come to her aid. But the Italian French army is in a deplorable state. The troops have not received their pay for weeks, their uniforms are falling into disrepair, their shoes are worn out, and most importantly, they are hungry. One of Napoleon's main concerns was the deplorable state of medical care for his people. &quot;...the hospitals lack the most basic necessities, our wounded are lying on the floor and are in a terrible state of exhaustion.&quot; This is not just about saving lives and returning the wounded to their units. Medical care affects morale because soldiers going into battle want to know that if the worst happens, they will be taken care of. Things are much worse for the Austrian garrison of Mantua, commanded by Field Marshal Wurmser. During the four-month siege, 9,000 soldiers died from disease, wounds or malnutrition. The survivors live on horse meat, the civilians live on rats and dogs. Even these meager rations will run out by January 27th - just a few weeks away. Time is ticking. The Austrians must liberate Mantua by this date, otherwise the city will be lost... and with it the war in Italy will be lost. Napoleon, having received only 7,000 reinforcements, prepares to meet Alvintsi's advance. Not only will he be outnumbered, he doesn't know where his enemy will strike. Napoleon is forced to keep one division to cover the Wurmser garrison. It is again commanded by General Serurier, who has recovered from a long illness. Augereau's division watches Adige... and Massena guards Verona. The division in the north has a new commander - Napoleon fired Vaubois for poor service and put General Barthelemy Joubert in his place. He is a hardworking, brave and extremely humble commander who, like Napoleon, is only 27 years old. General Rey is in reserve, south of Lake Garda. Feldzeichmeister Alvinzi received 14,000 reinforcements and an order to liberate Mantua as soon as possible. He's ready to go. But heavy snowfall, as well as the late arrival of equipment and supplies, delayed his progress until January 7. The columns of Provera and Bajalich begin to move first. But their offensive is just a diversionary maneuver designed to divert Napoleon's attention from the main threat that will advance along the Adige valley. Alvintsi divided the troops into six columns. Their task is to envelop and destroy Joubert's division at Rivoli and clear the way to Mantua. But Rivoli is a strong defensive position, and they must strike it hard and fast before the French can respond. Napoleon, believing that the Austrian advance was still weeks away, set out for the Papal States with a column of troops under the command of Colonel Lannes. They intend to put a little pressure on the Pope, who continues to resist France. However, as soon as he receives word of the enemy's movements, Napoleon hurries back to his headquarters in Roverbella. By this time, Alvintzi's troops had also begun their offensive... but serious planning flaws quickly became apparent. Lusignan's first column, on the right flank of the advance, was ordered to cross the slopes of Monte Baldo and attack Joubert from the rear. It soon becomes clear that these orders are wildly optimistic - they were invented by staff officers who had not seen the terrain. The height of the peak of Monte Baldo is more than 2 km. Its slopes are covered with deep snow and ice. The trails are treacherous, especially after dark, and there is no firewood for setting up camp. Only by choosing a wide detour was Lusignan able to somehow move forward, losing 200 people from exhaustion and hypothermia. Meanwhile, the Second and Third Austrian columns reach the French outpost at Ferrara. The first attack is repulsed and, following orders, they wait for Lusignan's column to appear before launching a second attack. However, Lusignan's column is not yet visible. Alvinzi's plan was based on quick and decisive action... but after just 48 hours it failed. In Roverbell, Napoleon ponders the incoming reports. He knows that Joubert's advanced outpost was attacked in Ferrara... That Massena repelled the Austrian attack on Verona... And Augereau encountered large Austrian forces at Legnago, ready to cross the Adige. Is Alvintsi really using the same tactics as before - attacking from the east? Then a second report arrives from Joubert. His scouts discovered an enemy column marching around. He has no doubt that he is facing a major Austrian attack and begins to withdraw his troops to Rivoli. "The reports that I conveyed to you are accurate," he tells his superior, "rest assured, the enemy will make every effort to push me back to Mantua..." "The enemy's plan has been revealed," Napoleon announces and gives a flurry of orders. Massena must march immediately to reinforce Joubert... Augereau must send him cavalry and cannon while the rest of his division watches Provere... Rey must advance to Castelnuovo... Serurier must be on high alert to attempt to break through the garrison of Mantua... And Joubert, the youngest and most inexperienced of the commanders of Napoleonic divisions, was ordered to hold Rivoli at all costs... Assuring that help was already on the way. After Joubert inflicted a bloody defeat on the Austrians at Ferrara, he withdrew his troops overnight and took up a defensive position in the vicinity of Rivoli. Napoleon arrives around midnight and immediately sets off with Joubert to inspect enemy positions. &quot;The weather cleared and the moonlight was excellent. I climbed to various heights and observed the lines of enemy fire. They occupied the territory between the Adige River and Lake Garda, and the situation was conducive to action. Five camps could easily be distinguished, in each of which there were columns.&quot; Before reinforcements arrive, Napoleon has only Joubert's division - 10,000 men - to hold off the 24,000 Austrians. But Alvinczy helps even the odds by ordering Lusignan's first column to make a wide flank march to cut off the French line of retreat. the Rivoli, passing through the steep gorge known as Pontare, can be held by one regiment supported by entrenched guns. Thus the chances of 9,000 against 12,000 in the center become more realistic. But Napoleon wants to advance his defensive line to hold the hills that outline the edge. Rivoli Plateau At 4 a.m., General Vial's light infantry brigade moves forward through the darkness. They push back the Austrian outposts and take the Chapel of San Marco. Following on the left are the rest of Joubert's division. But the French go too far - skirmishes begin along the entire line, and heavy fighting breaks out on the heights of San Marco. Napoleon did not want to start the battle so early, but the battle heats up. At dawn, the Austrians attack the plateau in full force. Liptai's second column bypasses and defeats the French 85th demi-brigade. The 29th Light on the right is forced to retreat and the French line appears to be crumbling. But the 14th on their right is fighting hard. It is an intense infantry battle over rugged terrain - vineyards and walled orchards - with surprise attacks, hasty retreats and counterattacks. When the Austrians capture a French battery, the officer demands: "Fourteenth! Are you really going to let them take our guns?" His soldiers rush into the attack, sweeping away the Austrians, and return the battery. By 9 o'clock in the morning Massena's troops arrive. They take up a position to Joubert's left - the stretched French line has stabilized. But so far only half of Alvintsi's six columns are opposing the French. One by one, the others enter the battle. Vukassovich's sixth column is on the far bank of the Adige River... but its guns are wreaking havoc on the French forces holding Pontare. Under the cover of this fire, Reiss' fifth column makes its way along a narrow road and storms the French fortifications in a fierce battle. This advance threatens to encircle the entire right wing of the French, and a retreat begins. A moment later, gunfire from the southwest announces that Lusignan's first column has reached Affi and is ready to cut off their escape. The situation of the French is desperate. They are outnumbered, surrounded and under heavy attack. Napoleon's headquarters looks at their commander with alarm... wondering what a miracle can save the army now. Anticipating victory, General Alvinzi and his staff ride forward and encourage their infantry. Napoleon remains calm. He knows that Alvintsi's central columns are close to exhaustion. They have no cavalry and weak artillery support. He identifies Reiss's column as the most immediate threat and orders Joubert to send all the men and guns he can spare on a counterattack. General Leclerc and 21-year-old Captain Lassalle rush to the attack with the entire French cavalry - only a few hundred horsemen. Under such pressure, the advanced Austrian troops retreat into the gorge. Here they encounter the rest of the advancing column: cavalry and infantry are squeezed together, some advancing, others trying to escape. Joubert's men pour fire on them from the ridge overlooking them. The last straw is the devastating explosion of an ammunition wagon. The morale of the Austrians is broken. The survivors retreat along the road to safety. Napoleon now turns his full attention to the center, where the exhausted Austrian columns are in disarray. The sudden appearance of French cavalry - supported by infantry and cannon - causes panic... and mass exodus. Alvinzi, who must have believed himself on the verge of victory moments before, is now forced to flee to the rear, spreading alarm among his men. By one o'clock in the afternoon the bulk of the Austrian army began to retreat rapidly... leaving Lusignan's First Column in an awkward position. Completely isolated, he begins to retreat... but the arrival of General Ray's brigade in his rear leads to defeat. Less than half of the 4,000 people flee. Through tenacity, courage and luck, the Italian army turned a dismal situation into an amazing triumph. French losses are modest. Austrian losses are devastating. Over the next few days, another five thousand Austrians are captured and struggle to make their way back through the mountain passes. Napoleon will not be present. He received news that Provera had crossed the Adige and was heading to Mantua. For him, this is a chance to strike another blow at the enemy - and decide the fate of Mantua. Leaving Joubert in command at Rivoli with orders to renew the attack at dawn, Napoleon races south with Massena's division. Provera is unaware of the disaster that has engulfed Alvinzi's army. He also does not know that they are now hunting for him... He advances towards Mantua, followed by Augereau as a shadow, who destroys his rearguard - 2,000 people are captured. With only 7,000 men remaining, Provera's only hope is to break the French siege lines. First he tries to attack San Giorgio. Impressive French defenses and powerful cannonade stop him. The next day he launches a coordinated attack with Wurmser against the French forces at La Favorita. But Napoleon had already arrived with Massena's division from the north. Wurmser's weak, starving men are forced to return to the Citadel... while a determined attack by the 57th Demi-Brigade crashes into Provera's flank. With Augereau approaching from the east, Provera faces impossible odds... and surrenders with all his strength. Wurmser's last hope for salvation failed. He postpones the inevitable for two painful weeks... Having exhausted all food supplies, on February 2 he accepts the terms of the surrender of Mantua. He and his escort return to Austria. His 16,000 remaining soldiers become prisoners. Austrian casualties in the campaign reach 44,000. After 8 months, the siege of Mantua is over... A victory that will soon be celebrated in the streets of Paris. But the formal surrender of Austria is accepted not by Napoleon, but by General Serurier. His commander-in-chief has already left to fight his next opponent - the Pope. From Rome, Pope Pius the Sixth is again campaigning against the French. And so Napoleon goes south with 9,000 soldiers to convey to him the new realities of the state of affairs in Italy. In Faenza, General Victor's division sweeps away the papal troops, and Ancona is taken without a fight. The subsequent Treaty of Tolentino forces the pope to give up the Romagna, as well as 30 million francs and 100 works of art. With the belated victory of Napoleon, they convince the Directory to support him with new forces. The French armies stuck on the Rhine are ordered to send him reinforcements. The commanding general, 34, another rising star in the French army, is being congratulated on his brilliant winter crossing of the Alps. His name is General Jean Bernadotte. On March 10, with 70,000 confident, experienced soldiers under his command, Napoleon goes on the offensive. He instructs Joubert to invade the Tyrol... Massena to advance up the Piave valley... while he himself leads the bulk of the army along the most direct road to Vienna. The enemy is distracted and demoralized. Even the appointment of a new commander, the Emperor's brother Archduke Charles, is unable to restore morale. Charles is considered a military prodigy - he is two years younger than Napoleon and defeated the armies of General Jourdan and Moreau in Germany. But he does not have enough troops or time. He fights protracted battles near the Tagliamento River - but they end in disaster when Bernadotte surrounds and captures 2,000 Austrians, 10 cannons and 8 standards. The French pursuit continues, with Massena covering Napoleon's northern flank. He arrives in Tarvis in time to block the Austrians' escape route. Over three days of fighting, the French take another 3,000 prisoners. Napoleon's troops bypass and outmaneuver the Austrians at every step. But his situation is more dangerous than it seems. The other French armies are just crossing the Rhine... and his own supply lines are now too stretched and vulnerable. Instead of retreating, Napoleon continues to advance, inviting Archduke Charles to begin peace negotiations. The Austrians agree. Two days later, both sides conclude a truce and peace negotiations begin in Leoben. After five years of conflict, Napoleon's brilliant advance into Austria put an end to the War of the First Coalition... Thus ended Napoleon's first campaign - almost exactly a year after it began, 600 km from the shores of the Mediterranean Sea. Negotiations in Leoben become the basis for the Treaty of Campo Formia , signed five months later. The Austrian Netherlands, the territory of modern Belgium, formally passes to France. The Republic of Venice, captured and systematically plundered by Napoleonic troops, is divided between France and Austria. Thus ended the 1200-year history of the Venetian Republic. The famous horses of St. Mark are one of many treasures sent to the Louvre in Paris to join its rapidly growing Italian collection. The French part of Venice joins the other Italian client states to form the new Cisalpine Republic. The author of its constitution... Napoleon Bonaparte. It's a clear indication of how far the 27-year-old general has come in just one year. Having led one of the most brilliant military campaigns in history - many consider it the best - he now dictates terms to kings and popes, creates new states and cements his status as the most famous military leader in Europe. He achieved all this through his incredible intelligence, tireless work and inspiring leadership, through which he was able to create a unique bond of trust with his people. Luck was also on his side along this path. He was assisted by a group of brilliant officers, many of whom would be with him for many years to come. After all, Napoleon still had to accomplish many outstanding deeds. His Italian campaign is just the first chapter... in one of the most amazing lives in history.