Now I have to be full disclosure. chatting. started talking about tech and you said, capability. explaining why that's a that's a great Yeah, So, so first of all, I really do appreciate getting an opportunity to our technology and how we help power the The reason why we feel very strongly the end of the day, Procter and Gamble consumers. or people like me that need to buy And to really have a deep, deep needs and where we might have more jobs that's capabilities that we need to And so when we talk about how do we capability needs. various business partners, and it goes in bringing those capabilities to life. life through a combination of people, is why we don't want to lead with just Gotcha. Now, as we start to get into that, so Let's get into the platform orientation those different solutions. There's data there, Jenny. Oh, my gosh. Right. So I think it starts with just more of a enablement. enablement is almost two big archetypes. solutions. decides to close its books every month. around the world. big scaled system. system architectures that most of us However, as I mentioned, many of the capabilities that are very different So we have categories that range from as I said, to like Tide detergent or Those capability needs can look very, And so as a result, to enable them, orientation approach to that. platforms. meet the unique needs that we have Now, what's a platform? It's pretty inclusive. factory, Even this new thing around but also things like predictive AI, robotic process automation, as well as bring all of this together. that when we're able and need to build relatively easy for us to then build on of the security, gives us all of the to be successful. So let's get to the specifics. technology? So in terms of capabilities that we're What are you using out there? So as an example, if we have a store with that salesperson is now given they're given a detailed set of where the opportunities are for that And the reason why that's so important that insight, that poor salesperson and were located in just about every figure out what's working, what's not aren't there. platforms that we've established for the walk in, you're underperforming in the represented in the store, and we're able information so they can then spend their sell. credible case, go to the store And the nice part about is we have all same company store down the street is very competitive with one another. little bit about this later on, I'm sure Competition can be your friend, right, we can provide to the person as they So with all that said, how is the Like. more of or certain you need less of I think it's less for us about quantity We think that that the technology really a way to supercharge the sales And the example I just gave is a good But what we do feel very strongly about people in the organization is critical. were to fast forward ten years from now, as I.T. coded as non i.t, but in a functional going to continue to blur and that's a I believe that the digital acuity of the ultimately allow us to continue to excel faster paces than even today we're So how do you get that digital buy in? It's a great question. with digital. So when that salesperson watching, I'm examples, but you want to use the Where do you think that person is upset the aisles, counting SKUs that know it's So there is this description of a thing You start getting some of these momentum builds. it. We're seeing much more of that now. We lead with how do we make your life And again, it's all rooted in our So why is that sales example a good At the end of the day, when that mom sure that that box of Pampers is where she needs it to be in the quality that And so by working backwards from that, in. That's our message to the sales team, to R&amp;D organization. that consumer. you know, find out what the problem is? Absolutely. and Gamble is a 187 year old company, a I would say one of the things that well over the last 187 years is constant But it's not innovation just for It's by getting in touch with the everything we do is in the eyes of what experience better with our products. for the organization. that you face? the different technology, but as far as And within I'm sure because I, I, you Data and data. I would I would tell anybody who is data is where you need to be spending technology and all the all the fun stuff and all the foundational models, those worthless unless you have data. important that when you think about the that is not just a data for a single to be built on one another. I would unfortunately say when you're up. with more foundational silos based on What we're seeing more and more is and about when we talk about these by a function, its end to end. freeing the data to allow the data to we would traditionally have used as more piece of it. It's not. Procter and Gamble were done. This is an ongoing journey. more guests up here from PepsiCo. And I know he can talk volumes about Data is absolutely where I would focus Now with so many companies out there build models or anything like that, versus buy. for Procter and Gamble? You're asking specific about them. So it's really interesting. I know we're live streaming, so. No one knows it. and I had I met with, I think, almost And I asked one question of each one That is, what's your investment thesis Usually when you can get the answer to where they are placing their bets in I will tell you there is no consistency are going. organization, we are making we've made the existing large language foundational Now we are supplementing it with the RAD We're doing a little bit of tuning not We're starting to get involved in that a But we're finding for the for the parts Generally speaking, for the use cases we pretty much okay now. outsourcing data science? We feel that data science is a skill What I think people maybe don't always good when they know the models. And what we really try to focus on is understands our business and are able to counterparts to bring these capabilities And so that usually requires a fairly talent to ensure that we can actually be development. Is your A.I. CIO budget or is there a different. So short answer no. I have a business enablement budget. And I don't mean to be curt about that, where I'm taking my budget and trying to By doing so, I almost feel like I'm not of the day. always able to make packed ship and sell value, drive new capabilities in It's evaluated against the return on decision as a company whether we do it. budget for innovation from functional Again, it's people process and That's how we think about it. headed? it could do that that it's not doing What do you need it to do? That would be awesome. interesting place where we're I'm new term agenda? It's the new term. Trust me, tomorrow we'll all forgotten But but the way that the engine tick it, is more in terms of how do I think microservices through an orchestration might not be easily brought together. these spaces, they tend to be very generative AI, there's maybe robotic maybe descriptive analytics use cases. we're technology is going and where I the real value is how do I string way that creates even more value to the So there might be an end to end thing with, I need to synthesize a whole bunch Well, that's a good use for generative might go into a dashboard. That might be a good descriptive The output of that might go into some So the the ability to string that where I think we're going. my team on how we can get there faster. this improve? technology, advancing. Anything moving forward, anything that You listed I would say the the the technology and more about the are coming up. where I don't think we can crack the There are some technologies that are down there, like Quantum is a good sure, but those will have. companies like Proctor and Gamble optimization algorithm. of stuff, run optimization, whether it optimizations, whether it be our etc.. capabilities that I think we're a little technology isn't quite where it needs to We're still doing very well relative to where we ultimately are going to start quantum, etc., I think we'll see developed. And we have a few minutes left, So you One question we have from the audience governance structures that need to be in So what type of governance do you need That's a huge, huge topic. idea? And and whoever I ask the question, good topics that people don't often like to need to deal with it. term stewardship and we take it very Like in the board meetings. I'm talking about what we're doing to our data is is in a place where we don't algorithms we're using don't have don't have drifting going on. deal of time ensuring that we have as as those negative things that are out Another reason why we believe having the Listen, A.I. I don't care what anyone tells you. A.I. It does not reason humans us. So having the human in the middle is against that as well and against bias That's another thing that people always Who exactly So we do have there's which we absolutely have in place. our best is usually our best defense All right. coming in early this morning.