Hey everyone, it's been quite some time since James Tour's ridiculous talking points aimed at research. But it seems like Jimbo didn't learn his this topic as of late. Let's do a little recap. pretty dark place, because his first move was to as an ad before my own videos debunking him. It anymore, but lots of people caught it at the Instead of actually addressing my content it just plays footage from a video freely and professional background, with cute little a doctorate or being a researcher somehow I dropped out in my second semester, I wanted What's that called again? Oh right, ad when I prove him wrong with facts. And this because that's totally what scientists do. you know, a debate. We can do something here I'd love to get together with Now of course rather than contacting me directly loser nobody apologist channel and let it simmer. transparent "good Christian" spectacle. James when in actuality he's boiling with rage. is very, very simple! How do you You got a reference on that? Do He seems like a fine young man. Christian fundamentalist. But ultimately, this do. Science is settled in the primary ever take for this topic, because he knows grandstanding for his idiot followers who just learn enough to understand anything he's saying, second of my content exposing him. Much like this he slandered Nobel prize winner Jack Szostak. Huh? He's lying to you! He got an RNA nucleotide. But the problem is This woman is the perfect representation of he's saying, but she loves every last drop. Now preparing a stunning rebuttal to my evisceration, What was his next move? Wow, look at this! A 9 his pathetic 14-part series all lumped together but hilariously, his followers don't notice at claiming James has done it again. You have to love they don't even watch his content, much less mine. something new. Wow, what's this piece from the false science behind origin of life research! to expose his lies? Let's take a peek. This is You think you've been taught things thing about molecules in a puddle, or in those molecules form into slithering creatures primordial soup model, it's a bunch of nonsense. open with. He is making it abundantly clear who sheep. James previously made 9 hours of content as the cornerstone of origin of life research. So the "primordial soup model", which these days is involves molecules in water getting struck by Why would he skip all of the complex chemistry years of prokaryotic evolution, and further and further quarter-billion years of oceanic slithering land creatures? Because he's a fraud. in a real scientific conversation. That's of scientists, or even science students, but ideologically motivated and willfully Welcome. Ratio Christi is a Christian the big questions of life. Why are we That's right. The big questions. But only with hear. Uh sorry, the lies they want to hear. Well the room who knows what you're talking about or So when people say that Tour or Tour has to bring god into this, or Tour Whoa, easy slugger! No one says you explicitly topic. The point is that you lie about science in front of ultra-religious people, because they lies embolden their faith. It's not any different comment might as well be from the Jesus fan club. you absolutely do imply intelligent design never move towards life", or "nothing happens clearly invoking a designer, which is the god can't even hear yourself talking. But continue. trust me I am an angel compared Aww, poor James! You lie through your teeth and get exposed for it, you play the victim card. ago by Professor Dave, who's a guy thousand views as of today. And it's... he talks a I was psychoanalyzed, and he knew things about If you invested in some therapy, you'd stand identity is lying for Jesus. It's easy for me And so I came out with a 13-part series, it's A and B, but say 13-part series on abiogenesis. And so then he came out with a two-part series thousand views, 900 thousand views, and will address that, not so much tonight, Aww, you can't address it tonight? Not even refute any of the science I presented, even shame. So what are you even doing here? can't just run in and make YouTube videos. And read papers and go through the data on the papers. buddy. You should publish papers. You know, everybody else? No chance of that though, huh? really? Because there are about 50 I showed you in biogeochemistry, and so many topics you don't but of course you don't have time But he brought in, what was really and so now I can go after the experts, because hard to engage, it's going like, you know Hook in jello? It sounds like you're trying really of the science I showed you. Or acknowledge misrepresenting research, or just saying anyone who got a B in freshman year chemistry. word for we have no idea! This is not how soap degrades, and proteins do degrade in water. because I show the world how Only two of those people on his, that brought on. One of them didn't even know. just lying as usual. It's also a pointless wrong either way. Are you gonna start Alright, molecules don't care about life, contrary, is utterly indifferent to life. Without never been shown to move towards life. Never. point of going up to a podium and pretending you half hour I spent explaining the basics of systems I showed you by Gerald Joyce? Selection on continuum? You're just going to ignore all What they do is they purchase some chemicals... first 30 seconds of attempting to discuss the not address anything I said in my several hours your greatest hits, despite the fact that I've devised conditions are devised specifically and some researchers even do their work in the hot springs, observing nucleotide polymerization. pathways is not a problem, given everything catalysis, enantioselective crystallization via work of researchers like Donna Blackmond who you Pointing at Miller-Urey is a blatant attempt to 70 years. This claim of hype is just a baseless about how popular media reports science has nor does a Kent Hovind style critique of middle oversimplify science for the purpose of teaching respond to anything I said, why even mention you are saying functions as a response to the I know why. Because your clueless audience loves That's why nobody has ever done it! Nobody has stereochemistry in a prebiotically relevant material, let alone absolute control where you done it. Nobody's ever polymerized glucose. done it in a prebiotically relevant manner. protecting groups, deprotecting groups, just James, did you even watch my content? like polymers of glucose, are the product Your pathetic attempt to discuss synthetic which I called you out on many times. I explained respond. What's wrong with my explanation? Address A small molecule like a sugar or amino acid can't Homochiral refers to a polymer that is made of anyone educated to take you seriously when you It's pointless to go through the rest of a lengthy attack on Steven Benner, which I all James does is repeat the things I already of this just as it does his previous content. the end of this sermon in the Q&amp;A portion. internet is that, do I think that the work being keep doing it, and what do I propose that we do. it's just gotta stop. Radically stop. It's getting a DARPA challenge. What DARPA does is when they so they have DARPA challenge. They don't invite for 40 years. They want fresh minds on this, and been done, and give us some fresh proposals. is that all of the origin of life researchers they solve this problem. And their students problem. Because they know that we're nowhere think that there's no use in continuing the same much different than what we're doing today. stop! Hey you, thousands of researchers doing stop right now and switch careers because you're pray tell? James at the helm, surrounded by all You're a lunatic. But he goes further. Dave Farina's program, I'm going right after goes on his channel, their work will be exposed. anti-science on this topic. Anyone who comes on well-established their science is, and no matter they will be exposed? Exposed for what? This life researcher would ever do any legitimate could make that could more clearly demonstrate field of origin of life research, and the concept his own dumb mouth, for all to hear. But this is All of his content is like this now. He's either But god gets right at my heart, and so remember saying to him that if that's Or aggressively attacking the entire "cowards" for not standing up for his god. intellectual chops of C. S. Lewis and the impact. Because they're cowards. It's you see that they're utter cowards. They will take a defensive position to defend the faith. for Jesus that are the problem. Totally. making videos praising the lord, and denouncing not hear how insane you sound? Anyway, all of his or rambling in irrelevant chemistry-speak to Christians who just sit there dumbfounded and the smart Jesus molecule man must be. These his latest tirade, published very recently. Oh no, my experts are going to be debunked! a stable out in my backyard, and also as though exist. By all means, James. Don't waste one second prove you wrong. Ignore all the publications I exist. If I don't have a doctorate, none of the made it up. This is a pathetic tactic that will clue what's in my content. He tells them that it's all he needs to address. I also love how he puts and Steven Benner aren't experts in origin of life in the field at all and doesn't understand it. this series is going to be about, shall we? this? It's because somebody pushed me. I was No, James. You weren't minding your own lying about science all over the internet. to debunk your lies. But keep pretending It is clear that his religious views cloud his Uh... yeah. You could be, but you just lie about it, remember? so I know the most about this. James. That's what you say. Got any more I hate them so much, I really Well that was me talking about all and I certainly have been humiliating They wanna attack me as an individual Well I did, actually. For two and a half prove you wrong. Did you wanna get Undeniable, he's actively lying. I don't know what Dave Farina's expertise Ok. Hang on, James. What is all of this? I mean, video? This is a picture of me from when I part of the NextUp program in 2016, where we and I wrote a little piece pretending to be that relevant to your position on origin of life shirt and making a playful Italian gesticulation, position? You complain that you being Christian but me being Italian is somehow important to you? video for a song I wrote called Tannhauser Gate, Bladerunner, in which I play all the characters and Deckard. This part is me playing Roy Batty. I would really like everyone to check out on those two sections actually sound like. So does me being a musician somehow invalidate a clip of me being intense and dramatic in a attempt at character assassination? James? When you desperately try to play the role around and act like a mudslinging senator, your followers are too stupid to recognize it. them. We'll just take them down one by one. and you have a lot more than three people to of life research that proves how clueless you their work to the public to neutralize your So James, I'll leave you with this. You or you can be a preacher. of course I'm flattered and quite gracious to be I do kind of enjoy imagining you and your loser heads in your hands trying to come up with a way gonna happen, and every lie out of your mouth just wouldn't need action movie soundtracks. You could a desperate attempt at character assassination my music videos, you could just try to answer are you listening James? Most of all, if you had a not in "Inference Review", but in a reputable pretend to be, instead of reducing yourself I'd love to get together with him, we'll have Dinosaur Adventure Land, you can sit right here So keep it up, James. Keep on lying, and I'll keep deeper and deeper into this pit of science denial outburst you become more and more the laughing not just a joke to scientists, either. He's a a look at this entry in a satirical publication for Dr. Tour. I will purify you chemically a lecture about how Earth is not a sphere, more of exam review. And look, the first 25 to show up as I imagine the poor undergrads that actually in the back as James tries his hardest not to The whole world is laughing at you, James. Except enough to think you're on a mission from god. editors at the DI keep on setting them up, entertaining and educational for everyone actually watch my content to see just how hateful,