- What is white famous? - What is white famous? Well, I mean, basically (Steve and audience laughing) You white famous. Any time, (Steve and audience continuing to laugh) any time, any time you could And Steve, how many, what else, Steve? (audience chuckling) You got your shows, you white people love you, they're like, Steve Harvey's amazing. (Steve and audience laughing) Like you are definitely white famous. (audience applauding) - You got billboards all over What's that like for you, seeing - It's pretty scary, pretty weird. Now I'm looking, oh yeah, that's, oh yeah. I climbed up there. I did that, people, I I wasn't supposed to climb They had everything, (Steve laughing) they had everything locked off. I had to really monkey and you know, I did (audience applauding) And if the cops did come by, What are they gonna be for standing in front of my face? (Steve laughing) They don't want them problems, - Yeah. On Saturday Night Live, I mean, your impressions - Thank you. - You do like over 200 impressions, man. - Yes, sir. - And since you're my guest, and you're the king of to answer them, (Jay laughing) as some famous people. - [Jay] Definitely. - So the first one is Chris Rock. So here's the question, Chris. Would you ever consider - I mean, I mean, okay, okay, okay. (audience laughing) All right, listen. Listen, listen, listen, listen. At this point, anybody Listen, I don't care. (audience cheering) Listen. (Jay clapping) I don't care if Flava Flav If he wins, and make Honey I don't care. (audience cheering) (Steve laughing) - Okay. All right. (audience laughing) Eddie Murphy, let me talk to you, dog. (audience laughing) How would you accept an Oscar? - Well, you know, first, I (Steve and audience laughing) if I, (indistinct) hold on, I, you know what I'm saying? I gotta say, I gotta say this. Why... (audience laughing) Why did it take so long? That's my question, I You've seen me. Y'all seen me. (audience cheering) You've seen me do Dream Girl. Oh yes, yes! (Jay clapping) (audience cheering) Yes, oh yes, yes, yes. Yes, yes, yes. - All right, Kevin, Kevin (audience wooing) (Jay chuckling) Kevin, what movie are you upset that you didn't get cast in? - Ah, listen, here's the thing, Steve. (audience cheering) Here's the thing. Swear to god. Listen, Steve, the fact is, I'm everywhere. Listen, it's me, Dwayne Swear to god, that's all you get. You know what I mean? It's just that. (Jay bee bopping) So really, you know what? (Steve laughing) Steve, I wanna thank you Steve. I wanna thank you. You know why? Tell you why, tell you (audience laughing) I'm thanking you because Think Bow bow bow, it did, you - [Steve] Yeah, come on. - They didn't think I was sexy before. Now I could walk outside bare chested, everybody's like, oh my god, oh my god! (Steve laughing) (audience cheering) - Jay Pharaoh, everybody! We're about to do something It's the holiday season, right? And so, I know how Now, I recently saw this video of a man that finds a way to bring positivity and cheer to airline travels. I'm gonna show you this video. I want you to check this out. This guy does this all Watch this. They can't stop this guy of positivity. (audience cheering) He shows up with a smile what the conditions are. The blistering heat, or the freezing cold. His name is Kyron Ashford. And I bought him out here (audience cheering) Everybody, all the way from (upbeat music) (audience cheering) How you doing, man? - Very nice to meet you. - Come over here, man. - Kyron. - This video, folks, it now (audience cheering) This is pretty good, man. What did it feel like to see - Oh man, I'm still but, you know, every time I see it, it just blows my mind to know I just make the best of my day. You know, just a year ago, where I was comfortable to show people that, you with where you are, you of your situation. (audience cheering) And, you know. So, knowing that, I get up three o'clock in the morning every single for my wife and my beautiful children. And to know that I'm bringing to provide for my wife and So, God, he's a blessing. He's allowing me to be able And now people see it. - I'm gonna tell you something. (audience applauding) When I lived in Dallas, I've got over 3 million miles on American. I done looked out a lot of windows of a... (Kyron laughing) I done looked out the plane window a lot. I've been backed out by a lot of people. I've never seen that in (audience cheering) I thought it was pretty good. All right, I got one more - Yes sir, yes sir. - How would you like a (audience wooing) - Oh man, I would love - Well, guess what? - We didn't just bring you I'm gonna let you play - Cool, good. (upbeat music) (audience cheering) - All right. This is how the game works, man. I'm gonna put 20 pictures up on the board for Harvey's Hundreds. I'm gonna show 'em to you. I want you to memorize those pictures, and you got 60 seconds to to as many pairs as you can. Every time you match a pair, If you match all 10 of 'em in 60 seconds, you gonna walk out here with - Yes sir. (audience cheering) That sound beautiful. - All right, now those are - [Kyron] Yep. - [Steve] So flip 'em over. All right, let's scramble 'em up. (image swooshing) All right, now this is how you play. I want you to call two Soon as you see those pictures, if they match, the first If not, remember where they are. Call off two more quickly Every match you get, - [Kyron] Okay. - Come on man, let's - Let's do it, let's do it. (audience cheering) - All right, the time will start after you pick your first two. - All right. Three and six. - Three six. (cash register dinging) Oh! Nine and 12. (buzzer buzzing) - Okay, okay. 14, eight. (buzzer buzzing) - Okay, five and 10. (buzzer buzzing) Okay, 10 and 12. (cash register dinging) Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. 19 and 16. - 19, 16. (cash register dinging) - Yeah, yeah, 17, two. (buzzer buzzing) - 11 and four. (buzzer buzzing) - Okay, nine and two. (buzzer buzzing) 17, five. Okay, okay, okay. (cash register dinging) (audience cheering) 14, nine. (buzzer buzzing) One and nine. (buzzer buzzing) - Four and nine. (cash register dinging) (audience cheering) Two and 13. (buzzer buzzing) (audience yelling numbers) 14 and two. 14, two. (cash register dinging) - Let's go. - 20, 15. (buzzer buzzing) - Okay, 20 and eight, 20 and eight! - Come on, let's go man, come on. (cash register dinging) - One and 11, one and 11! (buzzer buzzing) Ah! - I'm gonna give you one more. I'm gonna give you one more, man. Turn around, get some help. - All right. (audience yelling numbers) - One and 15. Come on man, say it. - One! - [Steve] 15. (cash register dinging) (audience cheering) - There you go, baby. Well, you got eight matches, man. (audience cheering) But you know something. Man, you bring so much joy to people, I'm gonna give you the whole 1,000, man. (logo ringing) (audience cheering) Come on man. No, that's good man. You bring so much joy Congratulations, man. - You a good brother, man. - Kyron Ashford, everybody. Thanks for being here! We got a great show for you today. The legendary Carol Burnett (upbeat music) Hey, you made it to the end of this video. I got a lot more that you're gonna enjoy. So just click to watch the next one. And make sure you subscribe to