I carry with me the 16 words my grandfather left behind. Yin Yang Feng Shui Secret Technique Take a look when you think about home But I didn't expect This book opened up a different life for me Enter the golden gate In the Huangpizi Tomb of the Greater Khingan Mountains in Northeast China The fat man and I had a very dangerous adventure And I ended up jumping in line. Became a soldier And I met my comrades in the army in the first year of junior high school After the war I went back to Beijing. When I set up a stall with Fatty in Panjiayuan Met Big Gold Teeth Through the introduction of Big Gold Teeth We met Shelia. And so our gold team was officially established But who ever thought After coming out of Jingjue Ancient City We're all under a spell We regrouped in Yunnan Get the wood dust bead through the reorganization mechanism To break the curse We have embarked on a new adventure Hey, wife, um You said we were dying Bring that Mushen pig back from Yunnan You can't break the curse, can you? Stop thinking about it Don't you know as soon as you meet Sun Liyang? Hold on tight Ah. Ha ha. This goes up Hey, what about the big gold teeth? Went out early this morning He's not back now. How's it going? It's out. Is this Mu Chenzhu? Then with him This curse has been solved You don't have to die before you're 40, hahaha. It's not that simple. I checked some relevant information Want to break the curse We have to go somewhere Where to go? devil Mushroom Mushroom listens to this country name every day Where does the door of this country open? Where and how to get there No one knows. Yes, change it. Ya ya ya Too hard sorry We are rich Fat man, we are rich Get rich hey hey hey fried Hey This time it's real A wealthy businessperson offered a high price Let the three of you help him find a treasure Hard or not, real or fake. What is true or false? That money is a ticket It's money, you know? Is this person reliable? Of course it's reliable Where are you going this time, mushroom? Just a moment. I'll invite our boss. Okay. Hey, protect Han Chen Enamel color hibiscus preparation jade pot spring bottle Gold-painted purple sand square pot carved lacquer dragon pattern bronze tripod Hey, I'll just say these three things. Throw one at random. Throw Pan Jinyuan away It was a shock. Hey, Kay Then it's worth it. Do not move It is said that the corpse walker in western Hunan The owner will provide a porcelain cat with thirteen whiskers Not that Then you mean that the owner of this house is the descendant of the corpse walker Hey Uncle Ming Ouch, hello old spirit. Uncle Ming I invited you over. What you said, Jin Ye, will do what you said? These must be Mr. Hu Miss Yang and Mr. Kai Uncle Ming has good eyesight Please take a seat Come on, have a seat Ah Xiao My daughter? Hey, this girl has beautiful eyes. And me? I have long heard that you are the top gold-tapping masters in China Admired for a long time Can make friends today It would be a great honor. If you have anything to say, just say it All smart people Then I'll open the skylight and say something bright Please come I want to ask for your help Looking for a rare treasure in the world As long as you are willing to take action I also have a green glaze gilt bottle. Concubine Yufeng I will kill these treasures with both hands Uncle Ming, are you polite? Hahaha hey Uncle Ming, what did you say? Isn't it all settled? You are too kind. Thank you Uncle Xie Ming Don't say anything. speak Hey Uncle Ming It stands to reason Shouldn't talk like this But you see This Colonel Toujin has come out collectively Look at the price we talked about before. Is it a little harder? You brought us here? What treasure are you looking for? everyone We finally won the meeting Ahaha Let me introduce Adong Axiang You've all seen it. Peter Huang, my bodyguard Used to be a soldier Han Shuna, my wife Uncle Ming We are looking for the glacier female corpse this time. The future is very dangerous Not for fun. I'm afraid it's inconvenient for you to bring your family with you. Nothing inconvenient Peter is responsible for my safety Shona used to learn ambulance If any of us stumble He helped us on the spot. Ha ha. Okay? Let me introduce you to This is the iron rod master Studied the culture of the devil country for many years This time I specially asked him to help us Ah hello hello Good luck. Good luck girl Your eyes are instinctive eyes Yes, sir What's wrong master This eye is the purest eye It certainly is. It can sense things that normal people can't see So where do we start next? New Book The book says there is a reincarnation temple inside the skeletal remains The above records the spiritual feelings of the Demon Kingdom in the past dynasties We're looking for a thousand-year-old crystal master You can find clues here OK Ahhhhh Ah! Ah! Come on. bastard Ah! Ah! The chicken crowing lamp is off and does not touch the gold. The fat man doesn't go to the grave What light? It wasn't just so dangerous Is this ritual? Say As described on the map This cold sea city It should be somewhere in the Kunlun Mountains. We need to see first What clues do you have to do with this map? OK Everyone look for it separately Come here quickly Ah. The various colors on this mural are mythical beasts and gods Is the key to deciphering this map They all point to the corresponding geographical location We have coordinates. Compare with the map on the scroll Although it cannot be as accurate as dividing gold and setting acupoints But you can also calculate the approximate area Area hmm Which area? Here it is. The snake eye totem on this mural Surrounded by four divine beasts If this snake eye is the city of Erro Then these four divine beasts It should be the four snow-capped mountains on the map Then the location of the city of Orohai It should be in Calamir Pass. The area where the hearts of Qinghai and Tibet meet A land surrounded by four peaks It is called Zhumu in Qingwu Feng Shui It is called Dragon Top in the Dragon Art It is the backbone of heaven and earth The ancestral dragon originated in its place The situation is very rare As long as you can be sure The approximate area is at the Calamere Pass It's not hard to find Kobayashi wow Uh-huh. Go and see brother Are you all right? Yeah. master What do you see? This Buddha statue is not made of pure gold or pure bronze They are made of hardware one-piece forming Corresponding to the five elements Unheard of This Buddha statue is incredible. Hey old Hu Look, this is really a bit of a baby Dad? Don't touch that statue. OK The scriptures on the chain should be used to exorcise demons and suppress evil spirits Don't touch it so as not to trigger the trigger. Ah yes yes Now that you have a clue Let's withdraw Go master yes Don't touch don't touch Get strong i Whoah! Ah! Go quickly close the door Come on. 3 wow Uh-huh. I'll do it. Fat man, run Tiger Hey you old girl You ah ah ah ah Ah! roll Uncle, I'm a fucking Pan Hua, let go Old Hu almost killed them. You guys calm down Mr. Wu We didn't mean to If you still want to be with us, stop playing tricks Ok I don't play with flowers I'm not playing tricks I don't care about you this time If there is a next time You are responsible for your own life and death OK, I remember. Let's go I didn't mean to. What's that? Nothing. It is the information on some mushrooms collected before. Ok Don't move What a wound! Be careful Stop tearing I'll see if anyone else is still injured. Yeah, OK. woohoo woohoo Haha, Yueyue came in time. necessary Soft goods and hard goods are all ready Yueyue has worked hard Don't say a word about snow-capped mountains. Don't I have to go to Flaming Mountain too? Hey wait a minute This is not for you. What are you talking about? What do you care? Chuckle How to thank me Ouch, where are the acupuncture points? Hey, which big one? Large my What is this? Want to see Master Jin Kai will give you long eyes Do you know what this is called? Aren't these gloves? What the hell do you know? Return the gloves. It's called a swamp Once in the grave All stumbles are invulnerable to him Oh, did you? Hey, what about ginger juice? Hey, what about this? Yes. Auntie, don't come over Don't come here What's wrong with Sister Yang? Adong Adong wrapped himself around the iron rod master Covered in blood Master master master master Come on fat man master Master, what's the matter? Sea three-dimensional walk Hai Stereo go faster Master ok Try it. It's revenge But can't come with us anymore All of us are fine. Then how did the master get poisoned? What kind of poison? Little girl Don't you say it? Rest early if you are in evil Hu Yekai is also tired, right? You're almost there It's just what you say and believe Hey, I said it was deliberately poisoned. The master is the only one who is proficient in the devil's language What good is it to poison him? This old girl's? Play ours from the start We all have to be careful in the next few days My bag was turned over this afternoon Everyone beware They may have other intentions Oh, right. Fat man Help me pick up a friend during the day tomorrow. I understand, I've been wanting to see you for a long time This brother Yes Big gold iron rod The accident is up to you Come on, Master Hu, give it to me Don't worry. I'm not by your side Pay attention to yourself. No one protects you You still don't protect me hahaha company commander Miss you so much Hahaha So let me introduce you. This is my comrade He grew up here in the first year of junior high school I asked him to be our guide Ah, hahaha. Good luck Hello, haha. Hello hello hello hahaha Your pulse is really good. Hey, the fat man picked you up bold Ah. Hahaha fat man, hurry up and get tired hahaha Okay. Everyone is here We're ready to go. Hahahahaha Hahaha Ya hahahahahahaha Hahahaha Hey Hey thank you thank you thank you company commander Hey, chairperson, company commander? I respect you Sister-in-law, let's go together Hahahaha come come Gone Hey Oh, dear. It's alright. Drink too much company commander I just thought you said you were so happy today. If only my sister were here It's a pity that he was also the White Wolf King back then I miss my sister. It's all over Don't think about it, blow it, oh, oh, oh. Hahaha, drink it up, drink it up. Come on, buddy Have a drink together Good brother, come and do it Be careful! Be careful! Sorry. You speak Chinese? So what's your name? Yang Jing Yang Jing Tashi Dele Tashi Dele What Dele? It's Tashi Dele Tashi Dele I'll teach you one more thing. Do you learn? Good idea. Ha ha. Aran Nyangaba What does that mean? I mean very happy Enron dried pangasius Hahaha wow haha oops I've eaten half a jin You didn't tell me The first day of junior high school, this kid can drink so much My god hurry up hurry up hurry up Oh, how about we dance for a while on the first day of junior high school? Okay, you two stop twisting yourselves Go fast go fast Oops, mother dare to ask you hahaha Hahahahaha Here it is. Hey, that's scary. Let's go another way This is to go to Errohai City and the T-shaped road. Can't be avoided Walk high and see How can I go down? Run fast fast fast fast Run a lot What's going on? Ah, hurry, hurry, hurry! Be careful Ah ah ah ah ah open cannon Hurry up There's a hood in front Hit the door, hurry up Hurry up Hey, hey, hey. Lao Tzu chases them 5 ah Ah! You go down first Near the burial site of Dingchuan crystal stone There should be two dragon-shaped burial paths of the same shape Are these three heights one of them? If so Then this is not far from the crystal stone? It should be. Two steps faster Save the wolf from catching up Alright fat man Shoot a flare Here comes the wolf I know. Okay. Sign it. This is the dragon top of the spine of heaven and earth Crystal coffin Likely to be frozen in this glacier Ok let's go up You have to be careful. To the front Hey old Hu Hey monkey monkey monkey Work hard, I Ya ya Are you okay fat man Hey Fortunately, what about Master Kai's life? I told you to be careful Stop blowing and get up Everyone pay attention to safety Hey come in come in Uncle Na, what about Uncle Na? Uncle Na, Uncle Na What about Uncle Na? Don't call me an avalanche My wife is gone I have to shout That's my wife Okay. Return the same way go back What about books? What about books? brother What about books? Uncle Liu Brother don't call me I didn't call this this. Now what? go down So be careful OK Pine nuts pine nuts How about pine nuts? Matsuko, wake up Wake up, wake up How is he? Just a minor scratch It's not life-threatening. Old Hu, come and see What the hell is this? Looks like a mummy Mummy Ooh. Such a complete mummy is worth 1 million Too bad it's not old enough Otherwise, it is as valuable as the thousand-year-old crystal stone. Pull it out and follow Uncle Ming, we're not here for mummification This glacier is so hard to walk Can't find the crystal stone for the corpse? Lao Huo Lao Huo Lao Huo Can you do it? It's not too heavy, how can I say more than 1 million? Stop arguing Why don't you knock? Two more knocks and it's out Come, come, come to me Uncle Ming Uncle Ming Hey, stop for me Let go of your hand Go ahead. What about books? What about books? Oops, it's all moving What about the book? Climb up Climb up bro Climb up uncle climb up Uncle, what are you doing? That's my wife! Come, come, do it well This monkey is your wife Crazy tiger Captain, he's coming It's not safe. Hurry up and go, pull it and go, go, go Oh. Ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah Ah! start Uh-huh. Uh-huh. Uh-huh. back back Everyone be careful Ah! Save me, save me Ah! Hahahahaha Ah. Uh-huh. Uh-huh. Uncle Liang, come and help! Uh-huh. Uh-huh. Ahhhhh Uh-huh. Ah! Hold on, hold on Ah! Go ahead! Ah! Ah! Uh-huh. Go out What are you doing? Get out Ah! Go out no no no no go out younger sister Brother avenged you Zunyi Lao Hu Lao Hu First year brother, you are very kind The fat man will remember it for the rest of his life Tiger Also here Is this the tomb of the glacier queen? You both come up This pillar has ghost eyes all over it. Liu Shuo came to help Do not move Crystal Monster Stand still Ya ya Hey don't move This is mine. Nakai, can't you? Pete faked this illness Hey, hey, hey. Millennium crystal stone It all went back Pull the goods There may be a situation in the robbery control room Uh-huh. It's a tiger Go quickly Go, go Go quickly Hurry up hurry up What is this? Let's go Ahhhhh Big brother come in come in Old five fuck them ah ah ah Ah! Close the door. I'll fuck you. Yeah. roll Dad, they're still outside Yeah, close the door. Old Hu again come down Sister Yang Ya Ya Sister Yang Ahhhh Fat man, hurry up Uh-huh. Ah! Luckily I closed the door Otherwise, none of those flying insects will survive when they come in. It's so big in here. Where is this going? I'll go to your uncle Hahaha Kaiye Kaiye I can't live I'm in a hurry, I can't live Do I discuss with you? Yes haha Do I discuss with you? That's what Reincarnation Temple said Put a few of us outside Not long memory Let go of you, I don't believe this old girl is not his It was my mom who was confused just now He didn't mean to I apologize to you for him We were wrong. We were wrong. Kay called you up Get up get up Kay, if you leave me here My dad and I will die here I'm begging you. I know I was wrong again. Oh, don't worry. Absolutely no next time Okay This time it's for Xiang's sake I'll kill you again. There's definitely no fragrance. Don't worry. Let's take out the second scripture What second book? Ouch my temper Did you hand it over? I'll get it for you first. Kai Ye You're in a hurry. Oh, dear. I don't want the Beijing teacher anymore I will still give the money Why should you care about such a scripture? Right? As long as you make sure my whole family gets out alive Home Where is home? Wife is gone Wife Hahahaha Why did it suddenly become like that? I saw it in my grandfather's diary It's a poisonous bug that's not biologically documented. Once this thing enters the body It will absorb all the essence of people Then look for the next target What about those broken bugs outside? My grandfather wrote about him as an ice ladybug. It is also an unknown creature in nature Take a look. In front of this is the secret passage of the Queen's Tomb just now This must be leaking. It's here I am now at the sunset at the stone gate. It's just a circle Husband, please hurry up. Yin and Yang Feng Shui Born in the South Attack the North So invest in the tomb and touch the gold The lights must be turned on in the southeast corner first Southeast is the position of potential and disaster When the lights go out, there will be disaster Northwest corner That's inclusion Fat man The situation we fought back blew it all up Right here Come on. Ready to put Let's go squat down You go in first, I'll pad later Let's go And how long is it? When did you try it? What place? Ahead should be the capital of the Devil Kingdom, Helohai City Ah! Beef stew Old Hu Russia has been ridiculous for thousands of years No one should have guessed right. Uncle Ming Is there a problem with your golden coupon? The golden coupon is no problem. That is I bought it from a foreign collector It's not even a golden coupon There is a problem. I saw it as you did. That's your eye Uncle Ming And I think this is it. If we have anything to say, let's put it on the surface It's so boring to hide it at this time Let's say we start from the beginning Strange things happen one after another Besides, this ancient city has been silent for thousands of years No one. You stew me a pot of beef You think Kai is a fool Kay, I swore to you Strange things happen along the way. I am the victim I spent a fortune Please help me find a thousand-year-old crystal master Now the Millennium Crystal Master is gone I sent out 5 people Three died. The driver and bodyguard are dead My wife got in too Now it's just me and What about Ah Xiang? Ah Xiang Xiang Isn't Ah Xiang just a matter of time? Floral fragrance It seems that someone deliberately led us to this place Don't look back Why is that? Maybe it's a ghost Change it for the next trip Junior Brother Hu There is Cao Cao here, come down Scared you Ah! Fat man fat man Fat man What are you doing? What's going on here? Ahhh What are you doing? This this this this What are the old girls doing? fuck hold back Hold back please come in What's the matter? How come? What's going on? And it's kind of weird Cover him up! Old Hu, this should be the door to disaster I can't help it. Never mind. These 1,000 years This old meeting? Hey, what's written on the pillar? This should be the history of the Demon Kingdom Their ancestors got snake bone eyes And master the secrets Then go to Keramir in the Kunlun Mountains Established a huge religious god Shortly after the birth of the people of Quanmo Kingdom Imprints will appear on the body But Only a woman who is willing to offer her eyes as a sacrifice To become the next Queen of the Demon Kingdom Break the curse Once the people of the devil country resist Their queen's blood will clot Then die I'm sorry, Sister Yang. Xiang Why would you do that? Because I am a descendant of the devil race Give Mu Chenzhu Mu Chenzhu is with me You put your hand on him Lao Hu doesn't need to give it to him You choose. Xiang Although you are an adopted daughter But I've treated you well all these years Let's just go. Or you can let me go Dad? I just want Mu Chenzhu Then let me be fair Mr. Hu, Mu Chenzhu gave it to him Life is more important than beads. Watson, what are you doing? I said give me Mu Chenzhu I'll give it to you. Hu Bayi Okay Take it out! Hurry up. The table is here Put it on the ground Put it on the ground Move back. The table is here Let him go OK Sacrifice to Heaven and Earth Sacrifice to the Four Wilderness Yamagawa Festival May Fourth Become a new hatred Make up for it Queen Ezra The sacrificial process above is fake. Possibly These must have been drawn by the people who were thrown down in the first place, right? This thing should have been taken by someone Can you find the correct location in the barren city? You won't know until you can go up. This shoot Hurry up Hurry up and go The door to the exotic passage is about to open I will become a new generation of mushroom queens Hahahaha Ahahahaha Ahaha Hahahahahahahahahahahahahaha Uh-huh. Ah, hahaha. Ahahahaha Lao Hu Ahahaha ahahaha ahaha Ya ya ya I knew you two were okay Axiang hahaha You've been fooled. Can't you lift it like this? Cursed This is all a scam by the feudal rulers You've been fooled. You are so persistent Give me the dust beads Let's find the right place Don't try to take the dust beads away from me Destiny is done I'm already a queen And my That's impossible. Why is my curse still there? The sacrifice has been completed Lao Hu is running out of time come Lieutenant Woking Sawazawa Shou grandson Uh-huh. Xunlong Divide Gold to See the Mountain A heavy entanglement is a heavy pass If there is an eight-fold insurance when closing the door Yin and yang gossip Kill the void and become one From one breath, I elucidate yin and yang It's that ghost eye I told you. I am already the queen of Mongolia My sacrifice is complete What are you trying to do? Xiang The sacrificial inflatable ghost axe fairy stones on the murals are all fake All queens of our country have sent It's all so hurtful Why can't I? What did I do wrong? Why can't I? I have put my eyeballs My eyes are buttoned Mr. Hu Uh-huh. Come here. Uh-huh. Ah! Xiang Xiang Xiang master Help me quickly Help me see What! Aquaman Lao Hu Lao Hu The curse is gone Hahahahahahaha Master Kai, I finally don't have to die young, haha. No, let's go Go find him Ah ah ah hey hey hey hey Bring Xiang This is tough. Take him with you Give me this hand Oh hurry hurry up After leaving the devil country Fatty Wang of the Mountains and I went to various places to inquire about information Finally solved the mystery 1,000 years ago, an extraterrestrial meteorite landed here Therefore, the particularity of the place And was set up as an altar by the people of the Devil Kingdom Queen of Philosophy In fact, according to scientific investigation A variety of special rays carried by extraterrestrial meteorites Positive and negative reactions to the magnetic field here When the altar rotates, it creates a special effect i And Twelve Mile King Fatty's interpretation of a blessing in disguise Hahahahaha hey For our brotherly friendship Do one Dry. Do I call him brother? All brothers All brothers Come faster All come OK Don't do it When Kai arrives in America Be sure to put that Empire State Building on Stuffed with our Beijing rock sugar gourd If you don't believe me, look Ahhh haha Hahahaha