Well, how to do a 360? This tutorial may take a little longer than the others, more than 5 minutes because, although making a 360 is quite easy, I want to show how to do... this is an integration of the 360 with Google photos, which is something that clients ask for more and It is much more useful to them , the truth is, than the 360 of a unit but still, I'm going to see it. Well... Well, come on, here I have a little scene that is nothing, in reality it is a box with some chairs with a sun here and nothing more than that, to explain a little what it is like to program a camera for a 360, you have your unit or whatever Here you have to put a Corona camera like it will be 360 you can put it where you want but the ideal is that it is in the middle of space or wherever you want you place it, here it is already making me like... spherical, but it The most... normal thing is that the camera when you put it on comes like this...: I'm going to put it back, here is the camera, here I am in perspective, I touch the C and here I am looking at the camera. Corona camera 1, the camera will look like this, what you have to do is enter the camera modifiers and change the projection and VR, this is quite easy, by spherical to 360, in this way this camera will take a 360 photo, as easy as that, in this Viewport I'm going to touch shift F to see what you're seeing , generally the Viewport is set to aspect 1.33 for the 360 to work you have to set it to two, Yes or yes If not it's not going to work, bah... it's going to work but then when they upload it to a website or something to see it, it's not going to work, very good. I'm going to throw in an interactive and here it is... the 360 render, I'm going To take it out I'm going to let it clean a little. Now I show you where we uploaded this, to see if it worked, if it didn't work, where can it be displayed, I stop it, I save it, I put 360 jpg on the desktop. Now what you need is a platform to upload this 360, here in the studio we use kula which is free, I will leave the link below. The only thing you have to do is become a user, upload a photo, what was this like? good photos Tools... here .. single image, Select image, desktop e... 360 and here is the 360, obviously they see it wrong, because the 360 should be of a size of 8000 pixels, at least, but for At least they can check that it works, they look up , they look down, they look at everything and put a post it on it. Here is the 360, ready as easy as that, but what I want to show you how to do this is a little more difficult and the truth is better. eh..what do you need for this? well 360 as you already learned from the outside (exterior) and the Google photo the Google photo to get it you are going to need this program that I leave you the link, you can also download it from here it is free and we use it a lot here to generate those images, In other words, they download it and when they open it, this will appear... this is the little program, what you have to do here I'm going to download it now if you see it, Well, I'm going to go anywhere, imagine that you have an image to make Here, in front of the Barolo palace, spectacular, they stand wherever they want, where they are going to take the render, the camera that they put the render on has to be in the same location or as similar as possible to where they capture this, here they like the sun Or if you don't like it, go to another date, I learned this recently, it's spectacular, check last date see more dates, it's going to November 21, here you like green better, well, perfect, save this one, copy this all this that is here They put it here, here they have to put where they are going to save this, we are going to save it on the desktop too, and here the resolution, in this resolution they are going to have to take the render in the same resolution as this image, they lower the maximum quality, Download There he is going to download it, he downloaded it and here it is... I am going to review it , here is the 360, I am going to download it like this, and this is what you need to integrate your 360 here and make it work, what would that be like? ..Well here I have our 360 integrated into the Google photo, you will see that I turn off our 360 and the original Google photo I turn it on and here it is. When they release the 360, of course, as I said just now, the size, I'm going to bring what we just came down here... to the photshop. They go to image... image size this size has to be the same in the render. This size has to be the same as the Render. They go to the render, to the configuration, I don't remember now how much it was, I think it was It was 13,000 and something whatever so here and throw away the render. I recommend yes or yes, remove the alpha channel, because later you will have to cut out the entire surroundings of that to be able to locate it and make the photomontage as we did here, which is this one here, you will see here, that I have the alpha the selection and here is the render The IDs to select, and if I turn off the group it is gone and this is not the same one that I am showing here, but, no, it is not the same, but well it would work. This is still without post-production, I think it lasted a little longer. Let's make renders... goodbye