- We just landed in Antarctica, and we're gonna survive We're literally at the at the coldest place on Earth. - Can't wait to freeze to death. (plane engine hums) Right, all right, see you later. And now that that plane has left, boys, there's no way out for the next 50 hours. - We're stuck. - [Jimmy] First, we need to to get some protection from the wind. - This is the most beautiful - Shut up, Nolan. - There's already a blizzard incoming. Just our luck. - The weather is so bad already. - This is so bad! - What are the odds that right when we get here? - It's cold! - Jimmy, bro, this is insane. - Let's go! - We'll set up shelter at Woo, I almost died. - [All] Antarctica! Antarctica! Antarctica! - I declare this Camp Beast. - [Jimmy] It's negative 30 degrees, and if we're gonna survive 49 more hours- - Grab it! Grab it! - My tent about flew away. - [Jimmy] We need a shelter ASAP. The tutorial said to go at an angle. Oh! - I don't know, like, How's it so low to the ground? It's in my sleeve! (screams) - They're like little children. - We're screwed. - Whoa, they're actually making progress. - Look at us, we're the best! - Beast Camp is thriving! (stakes pounding) A common problem in Antarctica is extreme weather blowing away your tent. We gotta cut snow blocks to So we're gonna use these ice blocks to build a wall and keep our camp safe. It's literally dropped 20 We need to build the wall faster. (dramatic music) - (grunts) Holy cow. Dude, this is by far the - Beast Camp is now finished! Now that the ice wall is finished, hopefully, the wind won't The hard part about Antarctica So you don't know when it's night or not. - My tummy tells me when it is. - What time does your tummy say it is? - Dinner time. - Welcome home, honey. - Whoa, it's red in here. - And for dinner, we have MREs. - Woo! - Jimmy, this is awful. Welcome to Antarctica. - [Jimmy] And in case you're wondering how you eat in the most First, you boil water, then you pour the boiling hot water, you gotta be careful, in here. And then in 10 minutes, you have food. And that's how you eat in Antarctica. - Oh, you don't know how good that tastes. (wind howls) - [Dream] I am so ready to sleep. - In my tent is Nolan and Dream. And Karl, who's in yours? - [Karl] It's me, Chandler, - You're going to bed, right? - [Karl] Yeah. - I am so tired, I'm sick. Antarctica, not a good - Jimmy has no idea - Oh my God. - It's just so crazy how he's so far down. - [Dream] Jimmy, I don't think - The wind is picking up, so we're gonna have a hard time sleeping. All right, guys, well, bro fist out. - [Jimmy] The sun in Antarctica, so night one was rough. - It's the next morning, and I don't know if I'm supposed 'Cause the sun's just always up. - Morning one, this is miserable. - Bro, Antarctica is not a funin' place. (George laughs) I woke up coughing up blood. - Before you can leave you need long pants, a long-sleeved shirt, a second pair of pants (grunts), a third pair of pants, a jacket, a jacket for your jacket, a ski mask, whatever this is, gloves, gloves and goggles so your And despite having all this Going into day two, there's two very important Number one: In Antarctica, you would in the snow, but you can't. So we have to pee in these bottles and hold onto it until It's negative 20 degrees. Let's see if I can pee. Hey, I got it! - He did it! - I got it. - Nice. - Woo, that took like five minutes. And number two: A lot of the boys have to poop, so we're going away from - I gotta poop. - The worst part of Antarctica is that giant blizzards would and your skin would - Oh no, the tent! (dramatic choral music) - (slapping) Bad tent, bad. - Hold it down! - Stay down, tent. - Oh, it worked. This bucket is my toilet, I'm gonna come out a better man. - Nolan, how is it? - That was the worst - See that mountain right there? - [All] Yes! - It currently does not have a name. And everyone knows that you gidda name it. Who wants to join me? - Not me. - I'll just grab my stuff - Okay. - I left something in my tent. - The weather's kind of bad. - I might just have to... - Hey, you're climbing - Just cause I'm the last one here? - I need someone to be - Well, I'm glad it's not windy. - Seriously, since that if we climb it, we whatever we want. - Bye, guys! - Bye, bye. Come on. (Karl sighs) - For the past 20-something hours, we've been digging this hole. By the time Jimmy's back, (&quot;massive&quot; echoes through mountains) - We're not even at the mountain, and we faced our first obstacle. It's a sea of ice. Look at this view. Antarctica's crazy. Dude, beautiful. - Just be very careful, Jimmy. - Woo, this is very slippery. - Very careful. Less than 10 people on earth - That's the mountain Anyways, let's climb before we die. - Onward! - Oh, my gosh. - Whoa, oh, don't slip. - Oh, this is wild. I'm so terrified. There's a drop to my right. If I fall backwards, I roll for 2000 feet. (Jimmy grunts) - What? - We're 30 hours in! - Oh, yes! - This is a huge cliff. No joke, no joking. - [Jimmy] If we fall down there, we die. - [Nolan] Yeah, hundred percent. - Karl's still digging - Bro, how am I gonna get out? (intense music) - Jimmy! - I'm right here. Just keep stepping. - Woo, yes, I'm alive. - I'm gonna take a pee break. - Spell &quot;I cup.&quot; - I C-U-P. - I hate you. (Jimmy exhales) the water bottles. - Oh yeah. See those tiny little specks over there? That's our base camp. I wonder what the boys are up to. - Here comes the airplane, mmm. - Ah-um. - Yummy. - The hole provides, and now - While Jimmy's climbing the mountain, we could have built up more We could have cleaned up their tents. We coulda cooked them meals But instead, we dug this hole. This is the best use of our time possible. - [Jimmy] Stop filming me and It feels like we're on a different planet. You can't convince me this is Earth. And while we climb this mountain, I wanna tell you guys about Shopify. A platform that makes starting Shopify helped me provide And they can do it for whatever Like climbing mountains. Woo. If you've ever bought you've used it. Oh, let's see, how do I do this? I'm forever grateful for them because I've been using 'em since we had 3 million subscribers. Shopify literally powers businesses. Oh, God, um. All right, gimme a second Shopify. Woo, we're climbing! Shopify powers businesses Starting a business can be scary. Kinda like climbing this mountain. - Yeah. - But entrepreneurship every single day and do what you love. So the risk is worth it. We're almost to the top. I can see it! - This is the most terrifying - This is actually terrifying, we're so high right now. - Can you build an (music swells) Right here, you got it? I made it. (triumphant music) It only took four and a half hours. We did it! We did it. Nolan. Yeah, woo! We made it, and we didn't die. We've claimed the mountain. (music crescendos) We did it! And now that we climbed the I think we should name it &quot;Shopify.&quot; Because, to be honest, I couldn't have done it without Shopify. - We just conquered Shopify. - Go to shopify.com/behindbeast to watch my exclusive This is now Shopify Mountain. Karl, can you hear me? - Yes, I can hear you, over. - We climbed the mountain. - [Karl] Congratulations, dude! - Could you see us on top of the mountain? - One second, we have to - Wait, what hole? - No, I said the whole tent. The entire tent. - [Jimmy] Uh, okay. - They literally look like - Our base camp is over 10 miles away. If that lens could see us, that's crazy. You know the best part - What? - No, no. - Also, you can't leave things behind, so I gotta take this flag down. - I carried it up all the way for that? What do you think they're - Not something intelligent. (George growls) - Best snow day ever! - These sleeping bags are complicated. What is this? (both laugh) (Karl imitates a seal) - Dude, I gotta go to whiz. - Okay, guys, it's four in the morning, and Jimmy's finally arriving back after climbing the mountain. - This might have been the - The hardest, but most rewarding thing. - He has no idea we dug this hole, so we're gonna get in and surprise him. - Home sweet home, ah! - I need a massage. Ow, Jimmy. (buzzing sound) Where is everybody? - Nolan. - Dream! How long were you gone for? - Something's not normal. I don't hear Karl going Karl? They're probably asleep Karl? Wait, what, is everyone up? - Jimmy's out there, you can see him. (George coughs) - What is down here? Oh, my god! Whoa, wait, how deep is that hole? - It's like eight feet deep. - I'm confused. - What's so confusing? It's just a hole. - Yeah, but why? - We're just trying to, you - I'm too tired to understand this. - Get in the hole! - [All] Yeah! Hole, hole, hole. How did they do this? - [All] Hole, hole, hole, hole! - I wanna get in the hole. - This is actually a convenient hole. Can you grab my iPad? - Yeah. - Do you know what's on this iPad? - Penguin videos. (Nolan laughs) Our next two Mr. Beast videos. - [All] Oh. - I'll let you guys choose. Do you guys wanna watch &quot;Blind Or &quot;I Ate the World's Largest Burger?&quot; - Blind Man Sees for the First Time. - I wanna see the blind man, actually. - Okay. There's a little iPad. - Tell me what you think. Is that crazy? - Yeah, what? - That was awesome. - Oh, my god, it is cold here. It's so cold that the screen - This is actually freezing outside. - I don't wanna be here anymore. I'm gonna head to bed. - This the camera tent. We're saying good night. Good night, everybody. - Climbing a mountain And we got back at four in the morning. It was nearly impossible to - It's the last day. You guys ready? Jim? - We have to pack up Otherwise, we're stuck here. Look, if we miss this flight, Jimmy, we're here for like another day. - [Jimmy] I'll put pants on in a minute. - Jimmy, get up! - Or is this your first survival video? - Yes. - They haven't got out We are going to miss the flight. Actually, let me rephrase that. They're gonna miss the flight. I'm still making it. - We're making the flight, baby. - [Jimmy] It is extremely important to preserve the untouched We can't leave a single So I made the boys put &quot;Leave nothing behind&quot; on three. Three. - [All] Leave nothing behind. - But they were as exhausted as I was, so things didn't get done quickly. - I've got absolutely zero energy left. All right, now put that in it. Put it on- (small explosion) - No! - There she is, out in the open. No, no, no, no, stop, no. (rapid thumping) - Salute. - A sad day for all Antarcticans. - Hole. - All right, get to filling, boys. Three, two, goodbye hole. - Goodbye, hole. - There's a hole in my heart, instead. (rising music) - And boom! We can now head home! - [All] Yes, home, home, home, home! - Hey, if we maintain this pace, we'll get to the ice strip - [All] Plane, plane, plane, plane. - Hey, Antarctica trip. - [All] Antarctica! Antarctica! - Right over here is the runway. - Yes. (all cheer) I'm proud of all of you for surviving 50 hours in Antarctica! We're going home, and we survived! - We did it! - Massive shout out to ALE and EYOS. They made this trip possible. I hope you guys enjoyed. - We're going home! (cheering) (explosion)