Have you've ever seen? What is it? There is a cauliflower, no It has to be.. .. It's a cabbage, right? I was planning to go in here and ride the famous Tahir pass That's the old route to Iran Bayburt, Turkey Good morning Internet. It is uh, 8:20 in the morning And welcome back to the channel. Welcome to bit of a cold and rainy day here in Turkey The weather forecast was correct, it's now dry So that's good. So let's see how today will go Um, I am now leaving Bayburt And I am on my way to.. Well, you spell the place Agri, Agri but that's not how you pronounce it Uh, the owner of the hotel here told me how to say it but.. .. Something like Agly, I think it's Agly Today is going to be a long day. I am now in Bayburt which is around this area And I am going to bypass Erzurum today Take a high pass over here and then I want to end up in Agri somewhere around here It's quite far away from here So I have 411 km to go Ha ha ha So it's going to be a big day And uh yeah, I'm going to cross a high mountain pass again So yeah, I think it's going to be an interesting day See the the castle is now completely in the clouds Pretty sure you can't even see where I was in the last video Yeah, castle's up there so So I just had the most amazing breakfast. Well, the biggest breakfast since I got to Turkey It was really, wow It was huge They had everything So yeah, that was a pretty good stay I had there But it is time to move on Wow, look at the sun trying to peek through the clouds there Yep (nervous giggling) I've run out of fuel Ha ha ha This is going to be interesting I was thinking that was going to happen because I knew I had to fuel up this morning I don't need a fuel gauge to know that I had to fill up this morning But then two petrol stations were closed because of they were doing some maintenance And then two petrol stations that I passed were on the other side of the road So I was like, okay let's just keep on going Surely there's going to come another one But then it didn't but now I can switch to reserve 'Cause I'm not completely empty yet Of course Here we go Back in business I'm also like on top of a mountain pass. I'm at like 2,400 m So when I get to the other side, hopefully going to go downhill And I can save some more fuel Yeah, it was just really unlucky. And those two fuel stations that were on the other side of the road There was like a.. how you say that? This divide in between so I also couldn't cross them And then I thought, ah Oh wow! Look at this view Okay, now I'm just going down so Saving up Let's hope I make it to fuel station Ah, it's not far anymore, see there's a large place here Askale Which yeah, it's not far Maybe 10 kms or so 1.5 km, come on Frankie! We got this There it is, there it is Well, that was cutting it close Just a little bit Well done Frankie Salam alaikum Uh, full Yeah Hm? To umm.. Van Eh to Agri To... Agri All right We are back in business Um This way Just going to have a quick look here ' Cause they're selling these enormous cabbages Ha ha ha Have you've ever seen? What is it? There is a cauliflower, no It has to be.. it's a cabbage, right? But like that's a sack of like 10 kgs of onions Look how big they are Just enormous! Ha ha ha Look at the size of these things! They are just huge compare them to the size, like an apple or something It's insane I think they're growing them around here, because I've seen a couple of stalls like, selling them But like.. ha ha ha, crazy! Really crazy Never seen those before You buy one of those things and you have cabbage for like, a year I'm now riding through a town called Pasinler and I just noticed that on top of that hill There's another fort or castle. Very similar.. well, from a distance, at least, to the one in Bayburt The view is bit blocked by this mosque Behind there, you see? Right on top there This one looks in better condition actually So maybe it has been restored further, or maybe it was never as badly demolished as the one in Bayburt No train No train I smell cows Careful chicken Ooh, I'm heading towards the clouds Not sure how high up I'm going to go now But yeah, it is really time to put my warm gloves on I've been battling through it for a long time I should have just put them on this morning but I was still a little optimistic But yeah, it's really getting too cold for summer gloves That's a lot better To be fair I've been really lucky with the weather so far in Turkey I think or at least it has been better than I thought it would be I thought it would be a lot colder already, but I've just been super lucky that it has been so sunny Oh, they harvested all the hay Just in time for winter Pretty stunning views again right? There is no shortage of of mountain Oh, I wonder how they get up this hill in winter time. It has to be impossible Right And there's also snow and ice I don't think it's possible to get up here then It's really quite steep No idea where this is going. Am I going down all the way into the gorge then? Looks like Another way down Ah, look at the beautiful river here Oops Making a wheelie Salam alaikum All right so now.. see I'm just following This road is a bit easier to ride Oh wow, so pretty everywhere Oh, you must be getting sick of me by now Saying like a million times in every video, how beautiful it is Of course, mostly that's because I really think Turkey is absolutely beautiful But I'm thinking maybe also part of why everything kind of just hits me harder It's just because I haven't been riding for so long Like that break because of the accident was the longest time I've spent in the Netherlands In I don't know, 15 years or something I never spent 5 months consecutively So just to be out here again riding motorcycle every day.. traveling It just.. ah, I miss it so much Oh, the skies are getting very dark ahead of me Oh, there's some really bad weather Look, I can just see all the rain just coming down there Is that where I'm going? I am kind of more going that way but.. I don't know where that front is moving to Left here Yeah, I think I cannot escape it I'm afraid So yeah, I'm going to put my rain gear on before I am completely wet Did I see some lightning, I think so On my right somewhere That's where the real heavy rain front is Gendarme.. He looked at me very suspiciously It's coming down Oh, there's a lot of rain Change of plan. I was planning to go in here and ride the famous Tahir pass That's a dirt road over a pass That's the old route to Iran. So for a very long time that was the only the main route to get from Turkey to Iran So.. um, even trucks, like big trucks would be taking that mountain pass But with this weather, I don't think that's a good idea Because now they put the main road here, so you don't have to take the pass anymore But I thought it would be cool, to see you know to ride the old route but with this weather There's going to be absolutely nobody up there And it might get super slippery as well So unfortunately, I'm just going to continue to my destination This weather it's not really fun to ride steep mountain passes I made it to town It's only well, there's still a few drops of rain but Not as bad as before Let's see if I can find a place to stay Turn left Yildirim Hotel Somewhere here Oh there Is it open? Looks rather closed Okay, it just starts raining again There's another hotel around the corner I'm just not sure Yeah, this is one way. Okay, I have to.. just go around the block Parking is a bit of an issue Don't really want to put Frankie here on this main street Hello Um, I'm looking for.. yeah, but no I don't like here Yeah Yeah, but my bike We can put there? Okay Like around or? Ah, here Okay Good yes So I made it to a room. Uh, Frankie is kind of safe-ish outside It's not really like, a guarded parking but I think it will be fine It's just, I don't like to park like on a busy, busy street like that on the front I was like absolutely not Anyway uh, what a day! Yeah, things kind of all turned out a little bit different than I planned And I actually, did a lot less kilometers today Because of the bad weather, so I skipped a few parts like I planned a lot more dirt, a lot more off-road But uh yeah, it is what it is and at least I stayed dry with my rain gear on I put it on on time this time So yeah, what else to say then that was it for today I really hope you like this video. If you did please give me a big thumbs up Subscribe down below and then I will see you in the next video