If you were a fan of Metroidvania games, then On the one side, we got Metroid: Other M - a and isolation, but was way more interested and excessive handholding. And on the other side, after six cracking Castlevania: Lords of Shadow - a knockabout from God of War, and had only the lightest It looked like the Metroidvania was dead. Except, it really wasn't. Because while Nintendo and Konami were about their respective franchises, other developers starting to try their hand at the Metroidvania Cave Story, Aquaria, and Shadow Complex were doors, new abilities, grid-like map systems, And since then we've seen games as varied games, Toki Tori 2, Guacamelee, Headlander, But none of these games would quite prepare This is a masterpiece, with crunchy combat Dark Souls-esque difficulty spikes, a deep careers, and - most important of all - an is just a joy to get lost in. So this is Boss Keys, and today - join me on Hollow Knight. Hollow Knight takes place in the sprawling The game begins in Dirtmouth: a fading town Beneath that lies the Forgotten Crossroads, up to many areas in the game, including the of Crystal Peak, the acidic Fog Canyon, and In the very depths of Hallownest you'll and the mysterious Ancient Basin. While in the furthest corners you'll discover the Howling Cliffs, and the lush greenhouse And at the kingdom's edge you'll find to The Hive. All of these areas surround the enormous capital of Tears, and its Royal Waterways sewer system. Together, these 15 different zones create Now, each area is visibly distinct. There's no confusing the pink gems of Crystal or the candlelit blue walls of the Forgotten Basin. It's especially helpful that the colour This all makes it easy to keep these areas helping with navigation and spatial reasoning. But you'll also find gameplay differences That includes bouncing on trampoline shrooms in the Crystal Peak, and peering through the Some areas, like the Kingdom's Edge, are Royal Waterways, are stretched out highways. And there are also unique enemies in each jellyfish in Fog Canyon, icky spiders in Deepnest, every zone feel brand new. When we first drop into Hallownest, we're This first cutscene shows a lone wanderer up to the kingdom and jumping on in. But we are given some vague hints about where The Elderbug in Dirtmouth tells us to head And this sign in the west end of the Forgotten kingdom's heart" - a place where "all apparently. Sounds like a good place to check out, if armour-plated beetle. Something Hollow Knight does well is to hint that zone's visual identity - like the rooms from Greenpath, or gems from Crystal Peak. This is a great way of teasing future content brain as somewhere worth returning to. In the centre of the Forgotten Crossroads - and behind him is our first power-up: the blast. In the tutorial for this new ability we use reminding us to return to that corridor, and This is a Metroidvania after all - so expect Here, in Greenpath, we meet Hornet: who keeps dashing to lure us over to the west side of the area. There, we'll summarily dispatch Hornet - hopefully, upgrade: the Mothwing Cloak. This lets us dash in mid-air, granting access We're still being teased by that city - thanks And Hornet does her little carrot-on-a-stick city's entrance. Not that you can follow her, mind you, due So instead, we enter the Mantis Village, and This allows us to scale up walls and is the and - finally - into the City of Tears. So, at this point, Hollow Knight seems quite We're following a standard sequence of upgrades path through Hallownest. But if the game's developers were leading subtly, with vague clues and in-world signposts At the centre of the city, we'll meet Hornet &quot;the grave in ash&quot;, but there's no indication And while the fountain actually puts a marker - it's for the Black Egg Temple back in we've already been, and that thing's locked So the question is - where to next? Let me back up a bit. If we look at the map of Hallownest, and reveal point in the game, we can see that our initial Forgotten Crossroads. After we get the Vengeful Spirit, we can go And the Mothwing Cloak reveals a tiny bit letting us into the Fungal Wastes. But as soon as we have the Mantis Claw, the to the City of Tears, of course, and - provided We can pop up to the Howling Cliffs, descend We can even reach the Resting Grounds. And if we discover the Tram Pass in Deepnest, And this was definitely a deliberate choice I spoke to Ari Gibson and William Pellen from "we started with a basic, linear progression would allow that progression to break apart, grew." So while our journey has been quite constrained different things we can do all at once. We can go fight the Dung Defender in the Royal Or we could challenge the Mantis Lords, to Or we could go fight the Soul Master in the Dive ability. That lets us into the Crystal Peak, and allows bonkers jet-powered super dash, which opens That includes a place in the Ancient Basin double jumpin' Monarch Wings. And also an area in the Royal Waterways, where can pick up Isma's Tear, which lets us splash So, by opening up the world in such a dramatic to lead you by the hand anymore. Because if there are loads of different things likely stumble upon something important, no Now, I should say that after entering the you to go fight the Soul Master and get the They even slam the city's gates shut behind smash through this floor with - you guessed This is a classic Metroidvania trick of locking back out without finding the necessary goodies. But something you should know about the world more than one way to go. For example - remember when I said you need Deepnest? Well, not necessarily - because if you find you can get to Deepnest from there and bypass routes to the same place. Also, you can get to east side of the City Or by taking a lift down from the Resting Or by taking the tram from Deepnest to the city from there. Or you could even come in via the Kingdom's That's four routes to the same place. The Crystal Peak is another key area for this. For starters, there are multiple routes through allowing us to skip this Crystal Guardian And there's two routes into the mine itself. Before, I mentioned using the Desolate Dive also this pitch-black and seemingly inaccessible Come back with the Lumafly Lantern from the able to see that there's actually a gate Once unlocked, you'll get access to the And if you've got the Mantis Claw, you can you can bypass the Soul Master and his Desolate The explorable area following the Mantis Claw In fact, because you can reach this dark room enter the Crystal Peak before getting the Though, at 1,800 Geo, the lamp is rather expensive stage in the adventure. It's an interesting example of a what we through a game that isn't physically inaccessible away at this early stage because they're knowledge, or - in this case - don't have So while the door to the City of Tears does ways out of the city that don't require Providing multiple routes through the game during the adventure - which is perfect for challenges - and most importantly of all - a Because - similar to games like Dark Souls - the route through the game is dictated by But this is also a wonderful way to stop the Like: think about the Grapple Hook in Super It can be used to access loads of places around upgrades like the Wave Beam and Energy Tanks Only one Grapple Hook point actually allows the Wrecked Ship - so we might call that a And so while you're certainly going to get does mean that if you can't find that one stuck. In Hollow Knight, though, things are a bit Like, after getting the Mothwing Cloak from to use it. Some lead to handy pick ups. But also, you can dash up here in the Fog in the bottom of the Forgotten Crossroads and continue your adventure towards the Mantis Having two critical locks instead of one dramatically through the game. Because whether you remember some past blocked-off new power-up, or you just continue adventuring part of the game - you're much more likely critical lock to find. This is a technique that's used to great Some players will drop down into the area But others might, instead, find the Tram Pass Forgotten Crossroads over to the Resting Grounds. They might take a lift up from the east end Grounds from underneath. Or they might get to that same entranceway, Blue Lake. That's four completely different paths to abilities and routes. And it can be accessed from the very start the pitch-black room I discussed earlier. But this is all for a reason. The Resting Grounds is actually the "grave City of Tears, and it's one of the most gives us an actual goal - we need to take sleeping sentries: Herrah the Beast, Lurien So by having all sorts of different ways into that players will almost certainly get there by the hand using signposts, directions, or Instead, you just get that wonderful feeling really important. Team Cherry says it tried to avoid using too the detriment of many players who, through and begin to learn the layout of the kingdom There is one exception to that, though: when the dreamer's masks are drawn onto your And normally, I'd be kind of against this However, this turns out to be less of a bunch gentle reminder of what your overall goal Because, your map is likely so uncharted that these of black, and you almost certainly don't dreamers yet. Herrah, for example, is hidden away in her You'll need the Mantis Claw to get in there, you're doing. Lurien is high atop his spire, overlooking without the Monarch Wings. And you'll need to defeat the Watcher Knights And Monomon's kipping in her archive in you have Isma's Tear. You're also going to have to dispatch the So while the masks on your map might point you anything about the many stops you'll There's one final way that Team Cherry allows and that's by allowing, encouraging, and get past obstacles without the necessary upgrades. Similar to tricks like the wall jump in Super Metroid. So you can use the kickback blast of the Vengeful normally require the Mothwing Cloak. You can use the Crystal Heart to bypass bits And most disruptive of all, you can bounce with the nail to give you an extra lift - and Now that's what I call exploiting a bug! Team Cherry told me that "we knew players nail bounce technique, and we absolutely wanted Watching players discover new routes is a moment for a player." "We even placed certain enemies and objects admit that "the Hollow Knight community never considered ourselves". One spot in the Kingdom's Edge had to be yourself stuck if you managed to access it With all three dreamers awake, we can now Forgotten Crossroads, fight the, ahem, final Now while I normally like to use graphs to on Boss Keys, it's not really possible with So much stuff can be be skipped, or done in directions, that creating a single, monolithic possible. I can show you one route through the game, shape of things. Essentially, a linear corridor of upgrades to a wide open matrix of non-linear possibilities. Including the ability to pick up game-changing you don't usually see in Metroidvanias, sequence of getting one item after another. But Team Cherry says "we wanted players was their own, and part of that was removing items or powers 'out of order'." Of course, this graph has a million different You can skip the Mantis Lords and the Crystal get the Dream Nail much earlier in the game, Dive, and so on. But beyond that, there's so much more that For starters, while I've already talked you and the game's credits - there's also no impact on the structure of the game whatsoever. There's the Brooding Mawlek, who's in The Collector, who can't be found unless The Enraged Guardian, who's hiding in a The Flukemarm, who can only be found if you And Nosk, in Deepnest, who can only be reached Wings. There's also the Hive Knight in, I'll let you guess, And there are more bosses beyond these. At the Kingdom's Edge, you'll find the gauntlet, with a handful of unique bosses. And the seven Warrior Dreams, who are ghostly and can be challenged to a dual after you And dream variants of the Broken Vessel, False like super hard remixes of those fights. Two more come in the Hidden Dreams DLC, as Ultimately, it is quite incredible to stumble a handy item or whatever: but an entirely never see. Team Cherry says it doesn't worry too much it makes. "Just having it there, out of sight from the developer explains - "much of it exists else waiting in the unexplored recesses of new areas, powerful items etc." "And [it] creates a very special experience So depending on how you categorise things, and Hidden Dreams DLC, there are more than you might only fight about 10 to 15 of them It's crazy. An absolute butt load of extra bosses and The Grimm Troupe and Godmaster, but they're Hallownest, and so I won't be discussing What's the point of going after these non-essential Other than the fact that you don't actually game, of course. Well, it's all about 'dem goodies. The world of Hollow Knight is jam packed with sometimes behind secret walls, sometimes behind items in shops, sometimes just found off the You've got your usual upgrades: 16 Mask so find four of them and you'll be able to The 9 Vessel Fragments are kinda similar: available mana for powerful spells and recharging There are also special moves, like the Great Soul upgrades like the Abyss Shriek and Descending And you can boost the power of your Nail if And then there are the charms. These collectable badges give you all sorts your spells, no knock-back when fighting enemies, Every one is uniquely interesting to equip - but are limited to the number of charm notches And yes, you can find charm notches as well. All of these items are well worth finding easy game. In fact, it's brutally difficult at times, mechanic as Dark Souls, and some of the bosses That makes getting more health, or a charm your nail's strength, or a more powerful Defeating some hidden boss doesn't feel you make any progress - the reward is usually to make your efforts feel worthwhile. I do want to say one thing about the corpse Hollow Knight sadly discourages exploration When you die in, say, Zelda 1 - it's easy Screw that area, I'm going to look somewhere When you die in Hollow Knight, though, you on to all your money and limits your mana This tempts you to return to the place you - regardless of the many other interesting or different routes you could take. These extra bosses and endless special items to find around every corner. No matter where you explore, there will be Sometimes it's not even relevant to the that adds to the rich and immersive atmosphere My personal favourite take on this is the way certain adventures. Bugs like Cloth, Quirrel, and Tiso, keep popping their status and location. It makes the world feel alive, and less like These bugs are off doing their own thing, One bug who definitely does need you, though, This arrogant dude can be found in the mandibles up to you if you save him. Same goes for when he's later found stuck If you save him both times, he'll appear Fools, and then in Bretta's house in Dirtmouth. But if you miss him in Greenpath or Deepnest, or simply That whole quest will just not happen - and once if you see their work, because it makes it full story. The game is actually packed with little quests children, a promise to fill out of a journal to carry a delicate flower across the map, stag station opens up when you unlock all All of these help flesh out Hollow Knight's moments. The world itself tells stories, too. My favourite example of this is the Blue Lake, of Tears, and explains why the city is constantly Amazing. Let's talk about actually getting around So we've already discussed the multiple In fact, every single zone, except for The in Hallownest, through lifts, passageways, Team Cherry says "It was always intentional and through (and sometimes around) areas." Some of these were planned ahead of time, presented itself - "For instance, when Deepnest against the bottom of the Queen's Gardens, "If we can add a connection between adjacent it doesn't cause players to get stuck somewhere, But when playing the game, many of these routes So it's initially impossible to get from But after getting the Crystal Heart, you can the town and the peak. It's one of those wonderful "aha" moments worlds, like taking that first elevator back What this means is that Hollow Knight's to certain places - to create a semblance Like how you need the tram pass to get to But then by opening up new routes from the shaft in the City of Tears, the game's world Team Cherry does this in micro-form, too. Take the Forgotten Crossroads, where this boss. Instead, you're forced to go all the way challenge along the way. However, once you unlock that gate it becomes through the crossroads. This is a clever way of ensuring that the forced to tackle difficult challenges and Things like tricky platforming sections, or against waves of foes. But once you've proven you can do it once, revisits to the zone - massively reducing There's only a few times where Team Cherry At some point in the game, the Forgotten Crossroads bubbles and becomes The Infected Crossroads Now, I do love this: it makes the world feel during your adventure. And it makes one of the earliest parts of with your newfound skills and abilities - a But it also blocks off a couple routes through to navigate. Grr. I should definitely also mention the Stag Similar to the fast travel points in Castlevania: are dotted around Hallownest and provide easy With a map the size of Hallownest, I think - it would be horribly tedious to get about And besides, with two stag stations in the have stations, so there's not enough to You'll still need to know your way around, Oh, the map! Gosh, how has it taken this long to talk about features: its mapping system. So, when you first start the game you But then you'll come across this cheeky He's a cartographer who will sell you his game - these kind of work like the map stations can explore and interesting areas you should The map for the Forgotten Crossroads, for head, which points you in the direction of Back up in Dirtmouth, you can buy a quill auto-mapping system. But with a couple twists: one is that the to rest. And the other is that in order to see your a compass charm - handy, but maybe it would A decision you can make. The way a game chooses to reveal its world with exploring that world. Classic adventures like Zelda and Metroid limitations, but it created this real sense to make your own map, either in your head The Souls games would revisit this idea much or Yharnham in your bonce. But a good, clear map is handy, too. It's nice to plot out routes you want to have and have not yet explored, and it's Hollow Knight gives you the best of both worlds. When you first enter a zone, your map the dark, and you have no idea about the size It makes new places feel scary and dangerous. Then, when you get the sketchy map from Cornifer, go - and some hints at places you might want And then once you sit in a bench, you get You can see more clearly how the world is and if you're feeling a bit stuck - scan So, if you thought the final cutscene in Hollow Like many Metroidvanias before it, Hollow of gameplay to go if you want to get the true, Here's the basic run down: you need to hop for the second time, and enter the Cast-Off Inside is the King's Brand, which can be ol' door and grant access to The Abyss. Inside is the Shade Cloak, which finally lets these black geysers of toxic goop. By the way, you can use the shade cloak to direction and wake Monomon without fighting Cheeky! Anyway, one black geyser blocks a new boss And the prize for beating him is the White Now, there's a character called Seer in in exchange for Essence, which is gained by variant bosses, using the dream nail on ghosts, roots. If you gather 1800 of this stuff, Seer will Now if you use this on a corpse in the Ancient nightmare hellscape void of misery that's but, like, without the super sharp platforming God damn this bit is quite annoying. At the end though is another White Fragment. Stick them together and you've got the Kingsoul. And then return to the Abyss and you'll Finally, return to Hollow Knight and use the and fight the actual proper last boss: Radiance. Who is very hard and makes me want to cry. But I did it. After like a million goes. I'm quite amazed just how much content there It took me about 20 hours to get to the credits get to the proper ending. Testament, I guess, to how Team Cherry is of content. Now, personally, this bit didn't quite work I felt finished and satisfied with the game And when I discovered that there was a lot to carry on and seek out yet more secrets. Especially because I had no idea where to And the game doesn't keep up that tradition if you miss this jump in the Kingdom's Edge, Basically, I just followed a walkthrough to Bit of a let down. So, that is Hollow Knight. The game helps lure you into the world of hand of linear level design - but then throws explore as you wish. And by letting you access so much content routes and methods to get through the game, trap that Metroidvanias can find themselves single place you need to go, to make any progress. Instead, Hollow Knight just lets you get on will be something worth finding around every A fascinating new zone, a bizarre one-off a genuinely helpful item, a game-changing This is quite different to other Metroidvanias, of slowly unravelling at a knot that binds But the feeling this game gives is perhaps even better in a world that never stops surprising. Team Cherry told me that "we try to let them explicitly one way, and reward them for "That approach is based on mutual trust We know these are smart, dedicated people tenacity and skill, they'll deal with the gain mastery over it. It's that mastery, in exploration, in combat that we hope creates a memorable experience." It certainly did for me, and to say I'm Silksong, would be a massive understatement. And that is a wrap on Boss Keys. In the last 20 episodes I've looked at every Castlevania Symphony of the Night, Dark Souls, The series is not gone forever, of course Metroid Prime 4, Hollow Knight Silksong, and And yes, I do still plan to do that wrap-up One day, promise. But I always planned for Hollow Knight to It's one of my favourite games and I think So it's good to go out on such a high. Thank you so much for watching, and I'll see you next mission.