We're talking about disruptive with Raja Rajamannar. He's the chief marketing wrote the excellent book Quantum Marketing. future about how marketing is going and how we need to reinvent, reimagine marketing. and what are the implications If you look at classical marketing, this goods companies use to practice the four Ps How do you do the positioning? Positioning has really do your pricing and place, which Classical marketers have a good grasp about How do consumers think? What is the psychology? What is the purchase funnel? Like I said, what Now, this has done very well in terms of from until almost the early 1990s. But come 1990s, with the advent of Internet on the one hand other hand. Until that time, data analytics the economists, and the scientists. of data analytics and they brought it to data analytics changed and ushered marketing breed of marketers started coming in, people who but couldn't care less about the classical What happened is, since then, there has been like I described before; the current paradigm technology, A/B testing, programmatic, et cetera; of marketers. Today, we, unfortunately, have contemporary, and very few straddle both worlds. marketers blend the best of these two approaches? if you look at marketers (or they came from the qualitative side of the esthetic sensibilities, cultural sensibilities, had judgment. That was a kind of mindset and a But when you look at the you're operating with your left brain and not with You're talking about logic. You're talking about which is like Greek and Latin to so our qualitative and right brain. it's not an easy thing. That's what makes the straddle both is so unique and so valuable. like Leonardo da Vinci, who is a classic both taken to a phenomenal level of competencies In fact, if I look at one more aspect, aspects of marketing and contemporary aspects of and more so tomorrow) the other areas that understand how your business makes money, which understand the aspects of how do you credibly and which means you need to understand the finances. and investments you make to the business That requires a different set of skills. Many of the marketing organizations (CMOs, for in those organizations. Unless you understand budgets? As I said, you need to understand because there is a continuum between marketing Unless you understand how the world operates relations, you're not going to be successful. marketers of tomorrow being true general managers as opposed to, in the past, you had marketing What can marketers do themselves to take steps understanding and the range, the breadth of you're describing, to do marketing at that level? self-assessment. Do you have the aptitude, to be able to straddle all these areas or not? towards making those a reality, which learn. You have to probably take mentoring or you have to probably read a ton of stuff. changing so dramatically, unless you constantly you will become obsolete pretty quickly. Self-assessment first, followed and experience path that you have to chart out fluffy, wishy-washy kind of an answer. I'm Take for example artificial intelligence. a pitch to you, says, &quot;Oh, my solution Okay. Firstly--and I do this, really, regularly--I solution (you say) is powered by AI. Just show hype out and get to the bottom,&quot; because I have on artificial intelligence enough to be able to ask the right questions, and to It's very important. You need to know the noise. There is a lot of hype and there's a You need to do that. You need to invest in most of the time, they are just name I have the privilege of serving as the president so I interact with a number of my peers. When between friends, tell me. Do you They say, &quot;Yeah, I just have a broad Now, the key thing is, we (the marketing or the MarTech companies, or social media we don't understand, it's no wonder that somebody We need to at least educate ourselves. We The consequences are going to be serious. the reason why I say this is so critical and in the fourth paradigm. Each paradigm has been Paradigm one was all about product marketing. technologies), it changed how you could do That led to paradigm two, When you looked at data and the that ushered marketing into the third paradigm. the launch of iPhone and the scaling of Facebook) Now, each one of these paradigms has been ushered are still struggling to get our heads and hands of technologies coming at us. We've got artificial autonomous driving cars, Internet of blockchains. It's like two dozen technologies We will become obsolete in no time and marketing is at an existential crisis as of now. reality, which we don't want. we have to understand technology. We have to power marketing into the future, and we better go It's quite interesting to hear you speak. I and it seems that the CIO role is evolution where the CIO must have that same not only of the technology (in their case) everything that you were just describing. for companies in general--particularly of marketing--where you can afford to just You need the broad base. You need to understand between each one of these functions. Unless Like I keep telling it, and pretty seriously, that HR head). We call him &quot;Chief People Officer.&quot; information technology officer, CIO. These folks, For example, if you look at HR, my talent needs back. If I have to build an organization that is the skillsets required, what are the competencies and actually start sourcing those kind of people. these kind of folks. I need to have training and don't have these skills but have the right I equip them? How do you make sure that the career For example, in the past, if you are in marketing, the time you become a CMO. But today, you have and then come back after a few years. I need the help of an HR person, and so these kind of things happen. The same I think operating as islands of excellence is not excellence that are going to work in the future. this topic) from Arsalan Khan, who is a regular Arsalan. We always appreciate your do to adopt marketing approaches to elevate It's really a communications question. always I've found that people outside marketing, depending on the company. agenda is set by marketing, the rest of the and makes that agenda come to life. So, But if you go outside of those marketing is really an enabling function, not owner, a business owner, or a division owner Marketing is a support function. In many the potential of marketing is not understood. is a fluffy organization and they think that these When they are asked a question, saying, &quot;Hey, dollars. What is it giving?&quot; now they are business Typically, the marketer is caught and giving some waffling marketing answers, &quot;My brand awareness is going up. My likeability is You get decimated. Your credibility gets decimated bushiness answer in that language, right? is--to change the perceptions, to really them into the activities of your marketing. I call involved. Let them see what it means to create a Show them your vulnerability. They have nothing they are much more empathetic. When you show the &quot;My God, I didn't realize that these are In the same way, I think the CIO should do the do the same thing, because as people outside doing some programming and some coding and, you them can be replaced by AI.&quot; Those are the kind The key thing is, it is all about opening openly what you are striving to do, what you're what your aspirations are, what your challenges true whether it is IT or for marketing. As we shift to this focus on data and analytics, do we bring forth that empathy for the customer One of the key things that technology does Data does exactly that. It gives you insights. was the provocative of large companies, which thing is true (or was true) of data. If you're a you're accumulating data, or you can go and massive amounts of data. You can analyze and come Now, technology can be actually procured on a and there are so many services that are which means your outlay is less and, because are affordable even for small companies. underlining the permission by on a pay-as-you-go basis. from a playing field point of view, competition dramatically, what separates your company is your creativity, is your classical skills You need to understand the undercurrents why they're acting, what drives them to act what drives their choices. The classical marketing behavioral economics will come to the fore. marketing is going to be mighty critical as and level the playing field. Therefore, marketers they are going to be the single biggest drivers they're equipped to deliver the agenda of the You're not suggesting that we discard that we incorporate it into a more sophisticated data that's available to us now. Is that correct? this or that. It is this and that. all those marketers are typically pretty good are the left-brain functions, which are finance. You need to get your head around it. (or power of marketing in the classical you create magic. You absolutely We have another very interesting question from &quot;How will quantum marketing impact One of the most important assets that any Right? Brands continue to be the embodiment of you're delivering, the kind of service that you Your brand actually is the manifestation of all Look back at the previous point I made. All of On the one hand, I try to demystify all these simple layperson's terms, I try to elaborate what learning? What is blockchain? What is provenance? intelligence. I tried to simplify it, put it in implications of this particular technology and and here is a broad set of next steps for In this, I keep talking about the brand It's really critical. of democratization that is happening, you need can be replicated or they can even be bettered. better. Once you occupy the slot in people's do something stupid to move that (what we and that equity that you have created. Brand is What I would also say is, it is not just It is also the tangible manifestation For example, a logo is a visual They have been having logos all the time. But either historical accidents or they have necessarily purpose-driven, value-embodying, I'm making a very profound and very provocative design thing that you are doing. It In fact, I will just mention another aspect you have a fantastic visual brand today, when where the entire interaction is purely your brand is visual. The interaction Now, how do you show up as a brand in that brand? Many brands do not have a sonic brand. some mnemonics, where they have some melodies, architecture for the medium of sound. You need and I'm saying it so emphatically because this for Mastercard, refreshing my visual brand to areas that we want to play, and embody the kind It really worked brilliantly for us. We dropped from our logo. Now, we just have two circles, hand - and we created an audio brand, a sonic We have released so far three layers and the kind Today, we have already become the number one which is amazing. We are there as a top 10 brand something like 87th just a short few years back. you do something scientifically and understand thoughtful, methodical fashion, you can get We have a question from Twitter. This is from Thank you for asking this because I was just the terms &quot;loyalty,&quot; and you've alluded to &quot;trust&quot; trust, and the fifth paradigm, what you As we are entering the fifth paradigm, a lot of relying on, they will all break apart. They I'm challenging every single big assumption and put it on its head through new theories. the world of physics. Now, physics is the around you in the physical world how they what is electricity, what is magnetism. Once you power of those either to build buildings or send However, physics as a science started failing outer space, physics was just not able to explain of atoms, the same thing, the classical physics flying very fast, classical physics breaks down. physics. To me, that was the inspiration for Many things that we practice in marketing today onslaught of technologies and the kind of data that are happening in the culture. are happening all over the world. A to totally alter what works in marketing and not. I'm making a very provocative statement, so please which said that a vast majority of have admitted that though they are in a committed relationship of some form--they have cheated I fell off my chair. I said, &quot;This &quot;How many people, even if they have cheated, which means this number is probably high. Why was I doing it? Because what I said is, in a a legal marriage or a religious marriage, or you are in a relationship where there you realize that there is a The consequence could be reputational damage, In spite of making commitments, and if people are still not loyal to their partners, are we as marketers stupid to expect people I said this is something that's going wrong here. &quot;Okay, let me start my own situation. When I more than 20 different loyalty programs, and I have a Walmart Sam's Club. I've got Costco. the same category, I have got four loyalty or am I just looking at a value relationship? Convenient. They will deliver it in two days' is available more fresh, so I giving a big sale on some item. I'll get it. not really loyal as far as my shopping carts go. concept of loyalty? That's exactly what we need to rethink how we are sinking hundreds every year behind loyalty programs and change them Preference management means, every time you need to influence that choice in favor of platforms to be able to do that, and that's Loyalty platforms, to my mind, are not already demonstrating it in many categories, equation that you have got. How do you evolve At Mastercard, in fact, I have been these preferential management platforms, and far as loyalty is concerned. As far as trust is the most valuable differentiators for any brand. where they don't know what to trust, and their whether it is politics, or whether it is social that people have seen far too often that they that they can truly trust. I think winning and Now, trust is not equal to loyalty. Arsalan Khan comes back and says, &quot;What about data been describing. When a data breach happens, that we manage that kind of breach in trust given the The way we will collect, organize, store, and I have already seen a lot of solutions which breach, it is what you find, or what the There are protocols that are coming in terms databases, so unless somebody actually hacks different places) they're not able to cobble the to incur would be so enormous that it might those kind of distributed databases. coming out. They have different levels The point I would say is, particularly, which are getting data about people, we Number one, the consumer or the individuals should actually gathered, how is it being protected, what to get the data purged from the databases. It's happening already through, for example, GDPR are emerging around the world. Even in the U.S., and there are a whole bunch of other states This is one part from consumer privacy. consumers, which can compromise them if it is not protect the data. Even if it means expenses that It's going to be very, very, very critical. with Apple and with Google saying that third-party ID will be removed, and so on and so forth. be the reality because more and more people privacy. We need to be cautious of what we I think this is a very pertinent question. which are coming in at this point in time, like strategy some companies are taking, like Google of having scenarios of distributed databases. provided, like in Asia. There is something of that sort. I'm not sure I got the name right, They are actually having a consortium of only relevant to that particular company who you are targeting and regrouping. will not have individuals, but we'll have small similarly. They have got similar characteristics Of a different type, though. which are coming, and that's a reflection of the Margarite Johnson asks, &quot;What advice do &quot;splinternet&quot; where digital access to customers and the Internet permission, availability, Each country, within its own borders, would and follow their own set of rules that they every one of them to operate by the same There can be some minimum standards, There can be certain kinds of protocols that the same page is a humongous task, not just How long has it taken, for example, for climate How long did it take to break it for it to go to the next level - and so on? I think that's the reality that we are there are industries where there have where common standards have been Telecommunications, for example, has done it from here on whatever would be the VoIP kind of I can go and I can use, or I can across other countries that I may be traveling I guess, given some of the approaches it's very difficult to get everyone onto the But I think it's inevitable that it will happen. WhatsApp phone has been launched, it took a while. cannot make calls using WhatsApp, or you cannot There are so many solutions of Some countries still permit you from using that companies or whatever else it is, but many and the league of those countries is expanding. It will be difficult for outliers to stay don't have a simple, straight answer for Let's shift gears and talk about experience. from advertising to experience. We hear the term days. Customer experience has almost become How do those pieces fit into this puzzle? not about a customer or a consumer experience, or it is about a unit's experience. It can be a unit of friends. It can be a unit of At the end of the day, you are talking about or experience delivered to human beings in a We keep propounding about experience, but we I'll just give you a simple example: advertising. Internet. I'm a major fan of Bollywood songs But now, my experience has been made so miserable, it's unbelievable. I watch, for example, my experience is interrupted by some It butts in, and then I'm waiting to see when I suffering that ad. I barely suffer until the thing Now, YouTube has done one further. They to make my life doubly miserable. you,&quot; and I'm just getting off your platform for which I'm even willing to pay money. no interruptions. It's fantastic. Premium. They used to call it YouTube Red They are making ad-free as a value proposition. let's think about it. Do we still want But then, the need is there to communicate products and services are great. That's something Instead of you tooting your horn, which is the old phenomenon of word of mouth use the word steroid - amplified vastly in social. you curate experiences that are When that experience is delightful to it. When they talk about it, people in and they believe the communication coming as opposed to your brand talking about itself. experience. Delight the consumer. Allow the amplify it. It works brilliantly. It has been. this has been the pivot in terms of from into an experiential model. This, I Look at another factor. More than 600 ad-blockers - more than 600 million If people hate ads, can you just afford--as people onto that model of advertising and run when they are revolting and they or they are chasing you away? Think about that. experience where your goal is to create those in the hopes that your consumers, your share it? Is there a distinction there? experience that you deliver during or just before or just after, but through The second thing is in terms of how you I touched upon the second Now, when you talk about the customer experience there are two things to be kept in we deliver not adequately on those. phenomenally for its consumer experience are the can they miss something as basic as this? It takes me four clicks before I can get that clicks--which I can see simply how it absolutely evolved company (who swears by consumer calls me, it takes me four clicks before I can wrong with that - on the one hand, right? we have to internalize it. We are that experience which is absolutely brilliant. we have got all these sponsorships. We invite and then they come to us. absolutely maniacal level of detail - obsessive, come out of that experience, they are blown away. The thing is, when you are trying to focus on the negative experience (even if it is tiny) happened before that, and that's what remains as want. I think, from a point of experience, one and done. An experience has to constantly constantly serve delight to the consumers. The question is the role of experiences, which is interesting because I'm of the CIO role. Employee experience is one marketing and employee experience? embarking on creating priceless for our what about our own employees? How do you bring that priceless to tangible realms We, therefore, collaborate extremely tightly internal client, literally, the human resources We work with them to see right from the how do you represent the company there? How do you as opposed to go and join one of the Silicon Once they come in, how do you make sure that their orientation, induction, call it whatever it is? Once they are there in the company in an ongoing are having a great experience at the company tools or the platforms that the company has to outsiders to bring them in? What kind It's a complete microcosm in itself that you a tight and collaborative partnership function) and marketing - in a big way. communication. Communication can really create a Now, we have got a function called internal marketing and into human resources. Both of us that's how you broadly approach it. even with AI, having limited success? that the platforms need to be good, that the that the brand's objectives are met, that there are metrics, and all that stuff. Unfortunately, to reality, either for lack of investment, lack of because the collaboration is not going to down. The whole ecosystem has to join the ranks. are they really committing and making will come into the picture? There is a What I am, however, pleased about is, we started WFA) in which most of the top brands and many We formed an initiative called GARM (Global This GARM, its whole mandate is to make sure the platforms, the technology companies, cetera. The medium has to be responsible, on the whole platform, so we want brand safety as a and making their experience really delightful. this is now less than a year old. But what we For example, it took us a little while, but we getting everyone to accept as to what is a brand not showing up or to get the harmful They are things which takes a while. and the progress is painfully slow, but now the the inertia at the industry level and making some good progress in the coming months and years. simple summary as to why quantum for marketers to understand and adopt? from the third paradigm onwards, marketing and its impact. Many CMO roles have been the functioning of marketing, which traditionally around different parts of the organization. More than 70% of the CEOs have said they have no McKinsey survey, which is scary, right? It's sad. at us in the fifth paradigm, and the data marketers up their game, change their approach, systems, and old ways of thinking, unless they and be prepared for tomorrow--they will become new way of approaching marketing with a completely the past and comes up with a playbook for the rate at which these technologies are coming How can marketers adapt and build their I think it starts with self-assessment to a or not. That means, do they have the capability aspects, the quantitative aspects on the one and understand the consumers, the Do they have the wherewithal to understand the Could they be truly general managers or not? with a deep specialization in marketing, They have to make an objective assessment. to learn, to get themselves educated, to get their don't understand something. Recognize that you There are courses, free courses, Register for programs to understand these Do job rotations outside of your function. collaborative arrangement where marketers two weeks with another company to see how they I think that upping their learning, becoming data analytics, finance, so on is going to be doing very aggressively as of now. Rajamannar. He is the president of the Mastercard at Mastercard. He wrote this excellent taking the time to speak with us today. the opportunity and I'm very excited about my content of the book, I'd be very happy to do so. questions my way and I'll be very happy to connect much for the opportunity. Please stay safe. those folks who asked questions. Subscribe friend. Subscribe to our newsletter. Check out Everybody, take care, and we'll