(dramatic music) - [Narrator] Sarah, Duchess of York, never quite fitted the royal mold. Even the nickname, Fergie, persisted, reflecting her determination The flying lessons, the her appearance, and the given to her by the Queen all excited comment and controversy. It had all started so well. A strong character, influential women to But, as an adventurous, contemporary woman with an independent outlook, her attitude and ideas didn't sit easily with the rigid protocol of royal life. Her clothes reflected a lack of judgment. Her overfamiliarity with She seemed extravagant with money and managed her own affairs badly. As a member of the royal family, the artificial constraints of public life went for spontaneity, enthusiasm, For a while, Fergie was But when the story broke that it was amidst reports that she and Andrew were often heard shouting at one another behind the stuffy walls It was soon obvious had moved beyond repair. Fergie had been crushed and a royal system which Her need for company while had damaged her own reputation and reflected badly on the royal family. But what does royalty do Is the British monarchy In this democratic age, royalty has had to widen the circle of to include commoners. But the Duke and Duchess of an experiment that's failed. So where does the royal Sarah Ferguson had seemed for a royal consort. Someone who embraced her new status with determination and enthusiasm. But somehow, she fell foul of the media and the royal system. Where did it all go wrong? The British royal family with its own unique lifestyle. Its members are very wary of outsiders. But, like the previous Duchess of York, now the Queen Mother, into the ranks was welcomed. For them, Prince Andrew couldn't They admired her sensible The Queen immediately began and the Queen Mother &quot;She's so English, so free &quot;we can't stand.&quot; With an ancestry rooted her family background was also impeccable. The Queen had known the and had watched this Sarah's enduring interest in horses, polo, and other country pursuits particularly endeared her to the Queen. And, from the beginning, they were often seen at Horsemanship of any kind for all the royal family. But when the press gets in the The relationship between these two women was always very relaxed. - They're both outdoor, And the Queen's also likes and she finds Sarah an amusing companion. They get on very well, than the Queen gets on with Diana, who she finds more difficult, more estranged when she's with her. - [Narrator] Fergie quickly became known as the Action Princess. Her mother had taught her to ride almost as soon as she could walk and at a special fun day at Ascot, she gave an impressive public display of her own equestrian skills. (helicopter whirring) best known as the Flying Duchess. Determined to learn all she as a naval helicopter pilot, Chatterbox One, as she was was the first royal lady and then took less time than her husband to win her wings for helicopters. As she herself explained, &quot;I now know exactly &quot;when he comes home from a day's flying.&quot; But her most controversial She was first put on skis and it remained an obsession. But the Prince and Princess of She rivals Charles in skill and speed and both enjoyed competing on the slopes. (cameras clicking) For Fergie, skiing was a vital outlet for her energy and love of speed. She certainly outclassed Diana. (cameras clicking) (laughing) (indistinct chattering) Despite these joint holidays, Fergie's skiing exploits were singled out and the sport's image as the soon added fuel to the of her leisure pursuits. She was portrayed as a parasite, shirking her public responsibilities in favor of personal indulgence. - Because they're sort of I mean, she once said to &quot;no one would mind, but &quot;people feel that it's a glamorous thing &quot;and perhaps not something &quot;a duchess should be doing all the time, &quot;but other members of &quot;and don't get criticized.&quot; It seems that everything she - [Narrator] But her seemed real enough. As a naval wife, she could have got away with only the occasional But she took on a heavy schedule and launched into crowds eager to make contact. - What's your name? - Franklin. - Are you in charge of Are they all your girlfriends? - No. Oh, well, he's cute though. Oh, not the boys, the girls. Thank you very much. Don't be mean. When you your girlfriend lots of love. - No way! - 'Til then. Thank you, Franklin. Is that for me? Very fun. Aren't I lucky? All your - [Narrator] Her early stood her in good stead. Unlike Diana, she needed little coaching before being confident But this maturity created - The Duchess of York who when she was quite mature, 25, 26, had been around the world, had, you know, she didn't hitchhike, the way lots of young women do and to suddenly step inside this great institution, this and decides what they will do must have been very, very Especially as, instead of having a gentle introduction to it, she was dropped straight into it and she began doing a lot of official jobs almost immediately after the honeymoon. - [Narrator] At 26, she wanted to bring her own ideas to the job. As one departure from the norm, she chose to support Tracy Edwards and her all-woman crew for the Whitbread Round the World Race in 1989, with their yacht, Maiden. She admired their and such a challenge appealed But one of the most unexpected of her new royal status of personal money supply. She'd been used to earning her own living and spending her own cash. - If you want to go out for you need 50 pounds or something. Where is it going to come from? Well, the men in the Windsor because they don't go I mean, the Prince of Wales that I know of, for meals, at all. Prince Andrew lives on a works in Navy establishments. He doesn't pop out very often. Occasionally, he takes his a nice restaurant but that would be, the bill would maybe not be sent or a policeman will pay with an American Express card or something. They just don't deal with money. So they can't understand to have some earnings. - [Narrator] The irony behind the scenes cashflow problem, Fergie was gaining a Again, it was her skiing that of being spend-thrift. - Pretty not very wise with her money. She doesn't have a great I mean, she's made money which is, she's perfectly entitled to do and, indeed, when she when she first got engaged to Andrew, Prince Philip actually said it was nice to have someone in this family that makes their own living. And then it seemed to that was good to start with, - [Narrator] Before Fergie she'd had a four-year love affair with a millionaire entrepreneur from the Formula One racing world. Paddy McNally was still - Paddy McNally was a sort and he was sort of, he'd always tease her. He'd tease her about putting on weight, he'd tease her about eating chocolate, he'd tease her about her hair, he'd tease her about everything. And she loved him very much, actually. But I'm sure a marriage would I mean, he was 20 years older than her. But he was a sort of rock for her, although he undermined her by always having an eye for someone else, somebody younger and prettier. So he knocked her confidence. But he was there for her as a friend and I respect the way he's never, ever said a word to anyone about his relationship with her. So there's gotta be - [Narrator] Fergie's mother, Susan, filed for divorce in order to marry Argentinian polo player Hector Barrantes. Four years later, Ronnie and started a new, much younger family. Fergie was fond of both her step-parents and although newcomers to the royal family usually found their own relations pushed into the background, she was determined that none It helped that her father, Major Ferguson, was already Prince Charles' polo manager and the increased press internationally-known media personality. Such notoriety had its flip side, though. In September 1988, were at Smith's Lawn at Major Ferguson's It was a brave show of A ceremonial stick marked as deputy chairmen of after tabloid newspapers revealed details of his visits to a massage It was an emotional farewell The club committee had voted him out and the message was clear. For the 57 year-old it was a humiliating rejection. Despite pressures to distance herself, Fergie was there to give her support. For both of them, it was a case of putting on a stiff upper lip. (cheering) - [Announcer] I would like to say on behalf of all of us it's a tragedy that you - [Crowd] Hear, hear! - [Announcer] And, God willing, encouraging polo, I know that. (indistinct chattering) - [Crowd] Hip hip hurray! Hip hip hurray! Hip hip hurray! (clapping) - [Narrator] Fergie felt very responsible for what had happened and stuck by him throughout the ordeal. - I think that's one of the Her loyalty to her father and her sister when they had had unpleasant publicity and I think she feels they wouldn't be the focus Who would be going around or her sister if they weren't related to the Duchess of York it's, in a way, her fault and she would like to help And so she stays very, very loyal and devoted to both of them. - [Narrator] But it was her that most interested the press. The Prince had first been attracted by her lack of reverence towards him and enjoyed her no-nonsense To begin with, they As Fergie once said, &quot;He's the one who gets me through.&quot; Their arrival in Klosters for the wedding of friend and Swiss ski brought the world's press On a less happy occasion, this same man had saved Prince Charles' life during the avalanche that But the Yorks were still behaving and their own marriage's physical warmth was there for all to see. - I know how devoted she was and how much in love they both were. I mean, to be with sometimes they were so tactile leave each other alone. And it was something that and happy just to look at them. And I don't think that sort - [Narrator] This personal happiness also showed in their public duties. To begin with, they carried out a lot of official engagements together. Business-like, but with their they made a good team. Fergie seemed determined to and that included creating a new home. Sunninghill Park, five miles down the road from Windsor Castle, almost five million pounds. It was the Queen's wedding present and took four years to complete, incorporating staff plus swimming pool, the 50 room mansion looks than a traditional, English stately home. And was nicknamed Palace Dallas Sarah's first pregnancy She expanded from a size 12 to a size 16 and felt continually sick. With Andrew away at sea, she to comfort her and had to cope alone. But with the arrival of the Beatrice Elizabeth Mary, the discomfort and long Born at 8:18 on the eighth of the 88th year of the century, the new princess' timing, heralded great good fortune. &quot;My daughter's gorgeous, but I'm biased,&quot; was the proud father's verdict. While her mother immediately nicknamed this new redhead Baby Beet Root. Even the press celebrated But Fergie as a mother Andrew had to leave on a to Australia immediately Fergie soon flew out to join him, leaving behind her six-week old baby. - I think she was really she was floundering for a while, you know. Especially after she had Beatrice and left the baby for six weeks. People thought that was appalling. Now, the truth behind that story is that is what the Duke And she felt, as a good wife, and the fact that he'd for most of that year, she to give him her total, tender loving care, et cetera. He'd been home, oh, a very, And, so, she thought the But, basically, she was I'm sure she didn't really but he wanted her to and And so that's what she did. - [Narrator] Back home, her Her visits distinguished by a relaxed chat, even in She'd mastered the fine art of small talk to total strangers. Determined to be professional, she hid a basic shyness behind - Hi. Thank you very much. (indistinct chattering) - [Narrator] Often disregarding protocol, she relied heavily on her always trying to cover as Her transparent eagerness to those who expected a but she refused to become more aloof. As she said herself, &quot;I'm not going to change, why should I?&quot; But she seemed easily Even during a long and tedious speech, a ladybird by her feet But she couldn't seem to leave it alone and keep her attention on the job in hand. It was a telling episode. If there was a charm school this was one pupil who'd failed to conform to the straight jacket of royal caution. Fergie's girlish exuberance persisted. It was a straightforwardness at odds with the carefully structured of royal duties. Such non-royal behavior had but her learning curve seemed when it came to patience and But when a bit of action was required, she was in her element. Audience participation and if some balloons she would wrestle with the wind and wield the scissors with (clapping) - Told you it's like a children's party. - [Narrator] The press were becoming more and more critical and her lack of decorum generated an air of disrespect at ground level, too. One awkward situation occurred when she was taken past and had to acknowledge the before embarking on an (honking) Being royal certainly does involve submitting to a bizarre Sometimes, it really is just Crowds of overexcited clowns, cartoon characters. The role demands considerable versatility as well as polished performance skills. When on form, Fergie to the challenge, but more often, she never quite seemed the right level of involvement. At times, her enthusiasm led her into picking the wrong event, inviting ridicule and even contempt. Far more popular abroad, where her feisty independent at home she was considered over the top. The press had now as the royal to put the knife in. Andrew wasn't around to help, so where were the advisors through this public relations minefield? - There is no job description for people coming into the royal family. There's no job description for a princess. There was no job description when he came into the royal family or Antony Armstrong Jones when he came in. And we all know what And I think with the Duchess of York, if somebody had said to her, &quot;Well, don't you think you might do this, &quot;you might do that, you I believe the one person would have been the Princess Royal because she was born royal, she'd never been anything and she knows exactly how - [Narrator] But sometimes she did manage to turn her enthusiasm to good effect. All the bad publicity her ignored her valuable support for the Combined Services and her particular interest in their disabled skiing program. She was a major factor in and despite being pregnant with Eugenie and unable to ski herself, she to watch the races. But first, an unscheduled - I'll draw one of my little skiers. - [Narrator] Such frequent acts of impulse created havoc with the carefully causing irritation and used to a more ordered But despite all her gaffs and upsets, such spontaneity revealed a warm heart. (indistinct chattering) - [Narrator] The association and here at Megeve in the French Alps, there were the full range of races, including the slalom for disabled skiers. At the final prize giving, Fergie's role as president including, much to her amusement, the provision of an As usual, her relaxed manner and humor cut through the stagey setup (cameras clicking) Never at a loss for words, she would always rise to the occasion when an off the cuff - And I haven't prepared a speech but I'm so pleased to be here today. I mean, it's just wonderful. I mean, there's not very much snow and I think you've done a fantastic job. - [Narrator] But her main charity interest was far from the glamorous Motor neuron disease was little publicized before Fergie took up the cause. As yet incurable, the disease and is often fatal. On a visit to a group of people with the disease in Australia, her sincerity and determination to be their voice was very obvious. - Hi, Johnny, nice to see you. Yeah, you've got to keep strong. We're on our way tonight. Very difficult. If there's anything I can do. I'm shouting about it, so I'm gonna leave this flowers We've just got to keep on fighting. That's what we've got to do. And, as I said to Rose, we're gonna knock it on the head one day. But I think people are that when I get up and make a speech now, I normally mention it, beginning to connect the two. So they are beginning to start. I've found that when I they say, &quot;What is motor neuron disease?&quot; When you're feeling isolated and alone, I haven't forgotten you and So we're gonna get there. We've just go to keep going. - [Narrator] But such work This was due both to media bias and also the un-photogenic - I feel she hasn't she deserves for her charity work because, unlike the Princess of Wales, she's not involved with cute little babies who look gorgeous and snuggly and cuddly. They may be dying of AIDs, when you see them in the pictures. The Duchess is involved with suffering from motor neuron disease. I mean that motor neuron is probably her main charity. And these people don't But, yet, she does some I remember in Australia, where there were a lot and one of the men there was he could no longer speak at not being able to talk to her when she came round to sit And she held his hand she said, &quot;Don't worry, I'll be your voice &quot;and I'll make the world listen to us. &quot;I'll keep on shouting and tell them until &quot;they listen to us and we find a cure.&quot; And it was magnificent stuff and there was a television crew there practically in tears, Everybody in the room was so moved and a lot of newspaper photographers and they all said, &quot;Oh, we can't use that. &quot;That's too upsetting for the They wouldn't use the pictures. They said, &quot;Oh, no, the &quot;It's not nice.&quot; And so she has that problem repeatedly. - [Narrator] The press always in making unfair comparisons between Fergie and the She was portrayed as a laughable contrast to the tall, elegant Diana. A dumpy figure of fun and over the top outfits that She just didn't conform to the stereotyped dress code of the royal family judged for its shows of In her previous life, clothes and high fashion had always bored her. Such an individual mode of just as the Queen Mother's unique style became part of her public success. But Fergie's vibrancy grated. She just seemed too theatrical. And, as ever, she was Her whole appearance became a She was also up against some But the image-conscious Princess of Wales had known exactly where - I mean, Princess Diana did have the people at Vogue to help her. And just as I was saying, and, perhaps, somebody probably not the same as well versed in fashion It's not that she doesn't have a good eye or a sense of style, it's photograph differently, different things are suitable for different things. There are problems when and the world's press is waiting, just waiting, to take a photograph. There are problems when you've got to look sort of elegant for hours at a time, so things shouldn't crease. Things like putting LA was probably meant to be very but, of course, was immediately pounced on by the sort of style experts I think that the Duchess of and thinks that life should have a funny and a witty and amusing side. And I think that the establishment, and the fashion establishment, wants fashion taken terribly seriously and perhaps didn't agree with her ideas. - [Narrator] The popular with any of her ideas. They swarmed around her, ready to catch any unguarded moment. No matter what she did or how she looked, the story was always a negative one. - In some ways, the press, perhaps, have been rather difficult because, I think, the she was so different from I think the press were so so that every time she left the house, she must have felt, oh, They criticized her fashion sense, they've criticized everything about her. I think that it's very when you're not sure, perhaps, And, perhaps, you're not obsessed by it as some people in the limelight are. (cameras clicking) - [Narrator] Pregnancy proved A time when choosing became even more of a nightmare and often looked as much. Both times, she expanded with a huge accompanying weight gain. Even afterwards, she difficult to shift and the tabloids pilloried her unmercifully. Such unrelenting personal comment was difficult for anyone to cope with and she took it badly. - She had figure problems, figure faults that got publicized heavily makes any woman terribly And I think nobody realizes and how she used to sit at home and cry about the cruel things that And people thought she was a figure of fun and because she wasn't they thought that they whatever they liked I mean, you wouldn't say not only because she's slim and gorgeous but because she is right up there, you know, the next Queen of England, and a bit of a sacred cow. And they'd have just tread But Fergie, well, she's, you know, she's never gonna be queen, she's way down the pecking order. And so I think they decided that once they could get away And she didn't have the clout or the influence to get it stopped. It's very difficult to So all these freebie all of the other ones, you et cetera, all these names became gospel. - [Narrator] Andrew, of to offer advice or support His naval commitments leaving his wife to face the music alone. But would this freewheeling, have really understood What kind of a man is he? - Spoiled, difficult, but charming. Very naive. And very immature that Sarah's known in her life. But I think, you know, he and I just think if he just considered that there are other people in the world besides him, his life's gonna be a lot happier. I think he has to stand up to his father, which is difficult, and he has to communicate with his mother. I mean, life hasn't been He's been very protected prepared him for the I'm not talking about I'm talking about emotionally. He's immature. - I think most people, when they meet Prince they think he's a very He appears to rush at you. If you go into a room and you normally give a neck bow when you meet a member He holds his hand out and he's aggressive, almost like an American. Americans are quite aggressive They appear to be as if and he does this. He also shouts. He appears to bark quite whereas Charles and Edward and a little bit retiring, They're very reserved. He is He's very exuberant, very high-spirited. - [Narrator] Andrew has too aware of his own position. He often lacks patience, particularly when people - Go that way, somewhere over there, far. It's not for your - [Narrator] Marriage did but as one friend said, being married to a man been into a pub, or been - The Windsor boys are not because they haven't had They haven't had to go out buy a round of drinks. They don't know the price of food, they certainly don't know Certainly don't know the although I'm sure Prince Charles has got quite a good idea by now, because he must have seen enough bills. But they are not renowned And I don't think that's really an inherent Scottish meanness, I think it's really that they just have no idea what things cost. - [Narrator] As wife to a prince, Sarah suddenly had to look the part. Now in the public eye, it was expected that she maintain a smart, for every occasion, costs a considerable amount of money. Diana could draw on her allowance from the Duchy of Cornwall. Fergie had no such fund. By the end of the marriage, her overdraft was well into six figures. In the early days, the two sisters-in-law grew to be close friends. Both were commoners and who were the products of the - I think there's a very real argument to support the theory that these boys will never, ever be able to have what is regarded as a normal Not what most people regard as a normal relationship with their wives because of their relationship, they were brought up by nannies, they have their nanny mentality and they're always looking they didn't have a mother in This is not to blame the Queen in any way, it's merely because she's and act as Queen and throughout the lives of her children and I think it has that the boys have had with her, with the rest of the family, and with the relationships that - [Narrator] The Queen for any new additions to the family. When she was first married, Prince Philip had also been And she sympathized with her in trying to build a home It was a big send off at Portsmouth Docks. The Queen was taking her for her first cruise on Andrew, for once, was on so it was a chance for them The Queen admired Fergie for - The Queen was very devoted to Sarah, but first she was fond of her because she had taken that playboy Prince Andrew. We've forgotten now that he was, he was Randy Andy once upon a time. Now he looks like a very you know, in the suburbs. And she changed him. Sarah Ferguson changed him into a nice, settled family man. So the Queen would love her for that. She liked her for what she is, which is a very charming person, but I hear all the time to Sunninghill Park for afternoon tea and to play with the (classical music) - [Narrator] To begin with, besotted with each other and Their family life despite the constant Beatrice soon had to but she'd obviously inherited her mother's sociable disposition and was a natural for any photo call. On Mothering Sunday 1990, Andrew became father to a second daughter and the first visitor Portland Hospital was Beatrice, come to see her new, seven Another early visitor was Diana. The sisters-in-law had now managed to produce the perfect Royal cousins for a dynasty from strength to strength. Fergie soon emerged as a The York's happiness seemed complete. For both of them, marriage had provided a strength and stability. For Fergie, this was ever since her own parents had split up when she was still a schoolgirl. The future seemed very rosy. But history was about to repeat itself. Not many months later, in the fairytale facade. (cameras clicking) Andrew's duties were still For a naval flying officer, family matters have to take a backseat. Left at home, the loneliness was beginning to take its toll. A situation only exacerbated by her growing isolation She was struggling with of trying to build a while rumors were rife that and even romance elsewhere. She needed help and there was none around. - There's no charm school There's no one that sort of stands up, a guru that advises them. I mean, Fergie didn't desperately needed someone, I think. She had the advice of her father, which sometimes wasn't the best advice and her mother was away. And she had the advice of her friends who didn't really know. There was no one really to help her, no one that she respected and I think this is probably people marrying into this family. There's no one to tell them what to do and what they can and your former life just when you marry into that family. You just cannot do any of the - [Narrator] Perhaps that Her refusal to forsake her skiing holidays ruffled feathers both inside Horse riding was another but at least this pursuit with the royal family's (audience clapping) But she can hardly be accused in her husband's activities. She took on the challenge specifically to bring As she said herself, &quot;Flying is his life &quot;and I want to be a part of his life.&quot; Not many wives would have carried their devotion to such lengths. Chameleon-like, she was willing to take on another's interests for the sake of a more understanding relationship. The effort was all there Perhaps it was because she - The fact that she can and do speeches in French and German, which the other Windsor woman can't do, she's so different in a she's more like an ordinary And they are really like and I think that sums up - There's no way that beaten by the system, it did beat her. And I think you can't and retain very much 'cause that's what we all like. - [Narrator] The pressures were clearly beginning to show. For such an exuberant personality, she seemed uncharacteristically - I think she needed Also, she was so stressed out. I mean, even the last time I saw her, which was last year, the end of last year, she was so stressed, She was really thin and pale and she, she just didn't know what was happening. And then she had this terrible turmoil. And the announcement and the separation and then the absolutely and she just had to get away or else I think she would have burst. - [Narrator] When rumors of began to leak out, the and went in for the kill. - [Reporter] Are the reports true, ma'am? (engine starting) - [Narrator] As ever, personal problems were suddenly considered public property. There was nowhere to hide. - It's just the media, basically, I think, that has really destroyed And when she's getting by the press, the palace began to see that she was very unpopular. Then she began, perhaps, to be getting attacked on the inside, from the family or the palace. And that was the end for her. She couldn't cope with and she just wanted to go away. (overlapping shouting) - [Narrator] But the For generations, the ceremony has been carefully maintained. The myth is perpetuated that something removed and unreachable. All the pomp and of representing stability and continuity, of giving the public what they want. (trumpeting) A cleverly orchestrated management system creates this facade. Most of what the world is allowed to know about royal-goings on is channeled through an extremely In keeping with modern trends, isn't it time that the presentation of royal family matters is made more open? - Your danger is, then, that will be seen to be media fodder, and the press office will be seen as a public relations office, which they're very anxious to avoid. They don't want to be seen as business, so at the moment, essentially, what is their main function, which is looking after the public duties of members of the royal family, but more and more, of course, they are being asked to handle, also, the private family affairs. The state of marriage of I mean, because, as you know, and there is constant speculation about the state of the marriage of the Prince of Wales - [Narrator] Prying eyes into is a phenomenon the Queen Like many of her subjects, the British monarch is when it comes to inquiring about other people's difficulties. Keeping up appearances is a vital part of the royal family firm. As a mother, the Queen finds it difficult to face up to family problems. - The Queen will go to almost any lengths to avoid confrontation. She simply doesn't like confrontation with family business at all. She leaves most of that sort of thing to Prince Philip, anyway, He doesn't mind confrontation at all. But the Queen will avoid it. And she is very likely, if &quot;Look, don't you think it's &quot;or with Sarah about the She would be just as likely to say, &quot;I think it's time the corgis and she'd walk away and that it would have disappeared She simply would not involve herself in any of the private squabbles, relationships of her family at all. - [Narrator] But with the Yorks' break up coming so soon after Princess Anne's, the Queen now faces a possible threat to the future of the monarchy itself. The Prince and Princess of but what if royalty you have to be born and bred for? - The difficulty is that they would have married, they would have had arranged marriages, they would have married somebody from the European royal houses and their brides would they would have known the form. And had there been any private these would have been and certainly wouldn't They wouldn't have dreamed of making announcements to the press or going to the media in general and I think this is the they are having to look They're marrying commoners. And it doesn't seem to work. (children cheering) - [Narrator] By the year 2000, Fergie, together with could have been one of the main influences to take the royal family - Thank you. That's good, you do that at school? Is that for me? - Yes, it's for you. It's a big letter, isn't it? (clapping) - [Narrator] Fergie seemed to But, as it turned out, she possessed a stubbornly that was just too much for the Windsors and the royal system. - They don't particularly want a woman like that in the family. They are too independent and The palace wants somebody content with just, well, charity very satisfying but, where being expressed if you just She wants to find her own - I don't think, perhaps, was the right type of woman, although it appeared to us she was because she was too independent, If she'd been more subservient there wouldn't have been so many problems 'cause she wouldn't have expected But then, obviously, these to those little women at home. So it's a dilemma there. They don't really meet enough but then, what is the right sort of woman? It's very difficult, I think, to be a prince of the royal (dramatic music) - [Narrator] It all began Outside this charmed What will happen to the What does the future hold for Fergie? - Everything she does is gonna She's always gonna be and if she gets close to anyone, I think it's gonna be very difficult for her to form another relationship. She is the mother of the so I think it's gonna be very hard. (dramatic music)