So was thinking of what to make for New and I decided to look back at New Year's 1740 BC. Yes something that might or Akitu festival of ancient Babylon. Tuh'u, a Babylonian lamb and It is one of the oldest recipes known to us. And what's cool is that this episode came who suggested it, and actually helped me making the recipe a few times for himself. So thank you Carlos for helping me stir up Tuh'u as we discuss the ancient Babylonian Akitu This time on Tasting History. So sometimes I run into a dish that ends in a Either I can't find any good history about it a translation. All sorts of reasons and this one the translations of it are in conflict with each I almost gave up but then I had the Gojko Barjamovic who is a leading Assyriologist Oh one second I just dropped a name. Honestly the experience was who is not only so generous with their time but He walked me through everything about this dish and the translation, and a lot of things about Babylonian culture that were just fantastic that I can't wait to share with you. What is interesting is that I came out of the conversation still thinking oh well there is A LOT That's because there are some words that have multiple meanings, and some words we just don't know what they meant. Luckily there are some wonderful educated guesses an excellent stew BUT just a caveat this is not the definitive Tuh'u recipe. There are several other versions out there, and they're all perfectly valid. Mine is no more right, or wrong than any of theirs. In fact mine may be slightly more that later, and I think it'll actually make for Anyway thank you to Gojko Barjamovic and his colleagues for all the work that they have done on this most ancient of recipes. Tuh'u: Lamb leg meat is used. Prepare water. Add fat. Sear. Add in salt, beer, onion, arugula, cilantro, samidu, cumin and beets. Put the ingredients in the Sprinkle the cooked mixture with coriander on top. Add suhutinnu and fresh cilantro. So there are two words samidu and suhutinnu that we do not have but in the ingredient list that i'll give you later we have the the something different kind of akin to them or leave Another really interesting note about the not unlike their modern counterpart. So our word cumin in Acadian is kamunum. Pretty close for basically being a 4,000 year old game of telephone. So for this recipe you will need: one pound leg of lamb chopped into bite-sized pieces. Now if you are using an entire leg of lamb I would go ahead and bone and said it added some nice flavors but if lamb leg pieces. Three to four tablespoons of oil So you could use the rendered fat from the lamb or any other kind of rendered fat is fine, or oil. They would have used sesame (untoasted) sesame oil, or olive oil. They didn't grow olives had olive oil so it could have been imported. One and a half teaspoons sea salt. Two cups of water. You might need more, you might need less, we'll get 12 ounces of beer. So here's where the recipe isn't as close historically as I might like, and that's because I'm using modern beers. I don't have any Babylonian beer but I could In the &quot;Hymn to Ninkasi&quot; there is a description of how to make beer from that time period, and Gojko has tried that beer, and some people say it's sour, but if you don't have it he says to use German weiss beer, and a sour beer combination. So that is what I am doing. One large onion, chopped. Two cups of arugula, chopped. Three-fourths cup cilantro, chopped. Two teaspoons of cumin seeds, Two large beets, or about four, cups chopped. Now they're not entirely sure but the red beets or refers to red beets. So I'm using red beets but they would have had red and gold so go with whichever one you want. Some people used in the region even to this day. One large leek, minced. Three cloves of garlic. One tablespoon dry coriander seeds, and additional chopped cilantro for garnish. And that brings us to the last two ingredients that we don't exactly The samidu and the suhutinnu. So Gojko and his colleagues kind of narrowed it and for the samidu they used Persian shallot, Now if you have trouble finding those exact and regular leek, or anything else that you that's perfectly fine. So the first thing to do is to heat your fat over a high heat and then add your lamb and sear. Then toss in the onion and cook Then add your beets and cook for another few minutes, and then add in the salt the beer, the arugula, the cilantro, the samidu or shallot, and the cumin and bring it to a boil. So here's where we talk about the water. So in the recipe it says prepare water and then never mentions it again Hm, not very helpful. It's probably because during the and so you might need to add some water just to keep things cooking, and also it's up to you how thick this is going to be. isit a thick stew, or is it more of a broth? It's really up to you. Recipe's not specific, so do whatever you want. So while it boils take your and mash them together. Then add that to the stew. Lower the heat and let it simmer for about an hour. Now the nice thing about stew is you're not It's really up to you how you like it. If you want your beets nice and but if you like a little bit more bite than 45 minutes, maybe an hour, it's totally up to you. Have fun with it. So one question I had for Gojko was when would and there's no definite answer but it's likely that it wasn't an everyday dish for every one. See a lamb at the time cost about one shekel of silver. That's a hundred loaves of bread or about the equivalent. So while it's not you know only for the royalty it's There is a thought that it was served at in another of the recipes on the Yale tablets part of the saffron plant that was only taken So kind of narrows it down it's not that far of a leap to Akitu festival which was the Babylonian new year Was a movable feast as you will. But since our new year is now I decided to make the correlation uh because I don't think that there I hope. :/ Now most of what we know about the Akitu festival after these recipes were written, or stamped, wedged, cuneiformed. Whatever the verb is for making cuneiform onto clay tablets, but we can that the festival didn't change all many of the things would have been the Essentially it celebrated the spring equinox, prime god Marduk's victory over the goddess of and the mother of dragons, Tiamat. It lasted over a week and while the king it was really open to everyone from the It kicked off with the Sesgallu, or the high priest imploring Marduk and praying to him for protection And seeing as Marduk lived in Babylon I'm guessing Now I am simplifying, way oversimplifying mythology from Babylon with this but for the purposes of today each major god had a hometown and then they had that was for all intents and purposes them. So when I say Marduk went here, and Marduk did this I'm talking about the statue okay? Anyway, after a few days of prayer, things really ramped up on day four when the high priest gave the scepter of royalness, them would head downstream to Babylon's sister is still standing to this day. So Borsippa was the home planet of Jar Jar Binks. &quot;No! No!&quot; No, Nabu was the son and heir to the god Marduk. So the king and the priest would spend the night at Nabu's temple, and the priest would recite or even reenact the Enuma Elis, which was the Babylonian creation myth, and it has a wicked battle scene in it where Marduk triumphs over the evil Tiamat. He shot an arrow split her down the middle and slit her heart. Vanquished her and extinguished He threw down her corpse and stood on top of her. When he had slain Tiamat, the leader, he her assembly was scattered... The gang of demons who all marched on her right, He fixed them with nose ropes and tied their arms, He trampled their battle-filth beneath him... the Lord trampled the lower part of Tiamat, with his unsparing mace smashed her skull, severed the arteries of her blood, and made the North Wind carry it off as good news. Then he uses her body parts including her rib cage to hold up the heavens, and her weeping eyes to water the Tigris and Euphrates rivers. Brutal. The next morning with the statue of Nabu and leave Nabu at the Uras Gate. Now we don't but I can only imagine it's somewhat like which is now at the Pergamonmuseum in Berlin, and if you ever get It is absolutely amazing. So while the statue the king headed back to the Esagil where Marduk of the ceremony. The great king of Babylon would of his kingly regalia namely that scepter and him by the ear and yank him to his knees and then Now this couldn't be a little namby pamby slap. It If he didn't actually cry from this slap then it was and you don't want to make Marduk unhappy. You see what he did to the last person he defeated, or god that he defeated. So if you as king know that you better hope that you can turn on the water Either way post slap, the king would plead his or Babylon or Babylon's temples, and then Marduk Which I'm guessing Marduk sounded a lot like that priest who's standing over in the corner. &quot;Fear not!... Marduk has heard your prayer... He has enlarged your rule... He will exalt On the day of the Akitu festival... you whose city Babylon is... whose temple Esagil is... whose the people of Babylon, the privileged citizens, are; Marduk will bless you forever! He will destroy your enemy, he will annihilate your adversary!&quot; Quite the affirmation. So I'm guessing as he received back his royal regalia, the crown and was confirmed as king for yet another year. Now the next day was all about He would be taken to the temple of the warrior who were gold-plated statues, and cut off their to his old pa, Marduk. Over the next couple days being carried by people to pledge their loyalty the king of Babylon as well, how convenient. Then Marduk would escort everyone to the Akitu house or house of the new year where unfortunately we from the previous year would have been given to Then the gods would return to Esagil, and announce all of the These could be things like changes to the the announcement of the pardons of political we actually have the story in the Old Testament Babylon being pardoned just before the festival. &quot;And it came to pass in the seventh and thirtieth year of the captivity of Jehoiachin king of Judah, in the twelfth month, on the seventh and twentieth day of the month, that Evil-merodach king of did lift up the head of Jehoiachin king of Judah out of prison.&quot; Now if I'm a Babylonian king I'm going to be rather peeved that I am being remembered as Evil-merodach when they call me Amel-Marduk. See there was a typo at some point for the last few thousand years. Doesn't that the wrong name than not remembered at all. So that was basically the end of the governmental portion of the festival but before everyone including the everyone sings songs to the gods and they eat including perhaps something like our Tuh'u which should be about ready to try. So once your stew and vegetables are done to your liking serve minced cilantro and chuhutinnu, or leek. And here we are Tuh'u from ancient Babylon. So now just like we have salt and pepper on the table today, according to Gojko in ancient Babylon they would have had date vinegar, sesame oil, and garum. I had no idea. I thought that was really, really interesting. So if you have a little garum, and you want to put it onto your Tuh'u you would not be wrong, in fact maybe i'll try that later but first Let's give it a shot. It's so red, it's just so red. The beets really - I Cooked to perfection. So the beets are actually fairly do have a little bite to them but they're fairly crunch from the added coriander seeds it adds a the flavor of course of the coriander really pops It really just kind of shoots through all the awesome to think that after 4,000 years or rather 4,000 years ago they were making cuisine that was this complex. I need a thesaurus but it's being served on any table today. So thank you to Gojko Barjamovic and my patron Carlos Mendoza for making this episode happen, and I will see you all in the new year on Tasting History. Happy New Years friendlings, don't forget to Subscribe and hit notification bell &lt;3 - Jose