A forest is a place where thousands of different creating the most complex that can exist in nature. Forest ecosystems where solar energy and carbon are turned into a huge which makes up ecosystems, but is also constantly changing. A forest is a system in which and has an assigned function. It is worth considering for the functioning the most mysterious group of organisms in LIFE OF THE FOREST. Fungi, that is representatives of the world of play an extremely important, often unnoticeable in the functioning including forest ecosystems. It is also one of the in terms of species It is estimated, that there may even species of fungi on our planet. A walk in the woods, can be an opportunity the amazing variety that fungi produce. Our attention is the so-called larger fungi, otherwise known as macrofungi. Their fruiting bodies can Mushrooms are undoubtedly Their fruiting bodies vary The size of some of them does not exceed one centimetre, but we can also find those with caps that extend It is also worth to the huge variety of which depends on the species. On our path we can with caps ranging from green, olive, pink, red, However, mushrooms are not An attentive observer with different fruiting bodies, often surprising in form, which can be cup-shaped, bush, spherical, bulbous, pear-shaped, star-shaped Most fungi, colloquially produce fruiting bodies consoles or hooves. The fruiting bodies are made to produce huge which is one of the primary When observing fruiting bodies, it is also worth to the variety of forms that is the layer in which The species that predominate among the fungi have tubular or lamellar hymenophore. However, we can also meet species with that is spiny, Contrary to appearances, fungi form fruiting bodies For example, velvet and are found until April, usually in frost-free periods. Fruiting bodies of velvet shanks usually grow near They are saprophytes, and therefore decompose A similar method of can be observed in many fungi. In early spring, fruiting bodies of fungi that are currently or of equally rare false morels. In the summer season, we can often find fruiting Caps of verdigris agaric are turquoise in colour and they often sprout usually in older forests. Their shimmering caps are a real decoration As a rule, saprotrophic fungi have their own food preferences. A significant part of them is related to dead wood. The fruiting bodies, commonly called bracket fungi, are observed in every forest. Many arboreal fungi are particularly Due to their presence, arboreal fungi gradually Ecological niches useful for Due to this specific succession, huge trees often get a during which hard and in a long-time process. Whether fungi break down organic matter from the soil they play a key role in the circulation of The efficiency of best seen when observing in which, among both larger and play a leading role. Another way for fungi to gain nutrients is to live at the expense The pathogenic fungi in question attack including plants. In natural forests, pathogenic organisms are a in which they play and are regulators This is not the case for forests by humans over the last decades. The maladjustment of to the habitat and the and age structure make such forests to the presence of An example is the The process that affects since the 1980s is caused leading to the In the first stage the infection of followed by further related to the attack of insects The spiral of death into which single changes in the entire which are most visible in of undergrowth plants. Currently, next to oaks, the most endangered attacked by the fungus Hymenoscyphus fraxinea, discovered at the This pathogen creates small While old trees it basically completely that are regenerating Elms are another The first reports of a appeared at the beginning During this time, 10-40% of all elms and North America were affected. Later, a new species of Ophiostoma novo-ulmi, which caused an almost of the mountain elm in southern Small insects, large elm bark beetles, which are the only vector that transfers the contribute to the spread Mycorrhizal fungi are an extremely without which it is the functioning of including forests Throughout their life, they remain in a close symbiotic relationship with plant roots, creating mycorrhiza. Mycorrhiza is not a Its division into different the systematic position Heather plants, for instance by form the so-called A separate type of mycorrhiza is also created by please our eyes The most common type of is the arbuscular mycorrhiza. It occurs in most herbaceous plants, including forest ones. Also some shrubs, bird cherry, as well such as maple and ash, are characterized of arbuscular mycorrhiza. However, the most important in the forests of is ectomycorrhiza. It applies to most such as pines, beeches, lindens, When in contact with the mycelium of ectomycorrhizal fungi, the fine roots of these fundamentally change undergo numerous branches, and their surface is The mycelium forms the the structure and colour of which Thanks to this, this underground does not differ in diversity from the variety Most edible species are found among the fungi with forest trees. These include larch boletes, bay boletes, edible milkcaps or russules. Inedible and poisonous fungi, which are ectomycorrhizal, include for instance toadstools. Mycorrhizal fungi, unlike saprotrophic fungi, have lost the ability dead organic matter In this respect, they depend entirely to donate to them some produced by photosynthesis. In return, fungi, thanks to the extensive extending over the substrate, provide plants with increased Additionally, they are an element of against soil pathogens. The ectomycorrhizal spreading over considerable the so-called common It connects the roots of trees, even those belonging so that one common The purpose of this the growth of seedlings of adult trees. Autumn is the time when we especially Most often it is not only due to our willingness to The aim of these trips which can be safely called the national sport of Poles. Mushroom picking has a centuries-old Undoubtedly, many of us remember the very pictorial description which was included of &quot;Pan Tadeusz&quot; Poland's national bard. In September and October, when the weather is favourable for fungi, forest parking lots In many regions of Poland, you can then meet of people setting out Most often, they collect some such as larch boletus and birch boletes. Most of the collected mushrooms are intended for personal use. Some mushroom pickers, however, treat autumn trips to additional income. We can buy fresh mushrooms running through forests, at city markets and more and more often The trade also includes in various pickles, or constituting an for instance dumplings or pates. The Polish law allows for the marketing and most of which are Despite media unfortunately often fatal, caused by the consumption such cases are One of the most dangerous is undoubtedly the commonly known as the death cap. It is most often confused yellow knight or In today's changing world, the priority is the and the protection The best way to protect fungi is to take special care Since we find the richness of fungi by protecting the we also protect the world It is often a world and endangered species. This is the case, for example, in the forests of the which is the best-studied in terms of the The dizzying amount associated with a huge of varying degrees but also the diversity makes it an ideal place However, the vast majority are managed forests. In such forests, fungi can be used as useful for observing in forest ecosystems The managed forest is often contradictory In addition to the forest also performs related to the The biggest paradox with wood, the most natural, renewable and fully biodegradable is that perennial trees must On the one hand, wood is a raw material without which it is difficult On the other hand, the sight of trees being often causes However, the life of the forest goes on. In order to reduce the negative effects of human interference, it is important to possible regeneration preferably with the use The best example of this is the promotion of thanks to which the forest Leaving the felling find ecological niches The spread fruiting bodies are a great peculiarity The appearance first the common ones, with time other, rarer ones, proves how quickly the forest is able to heal wounds. In this way, the young generation takes care of its fungi, and they support the newly created forest. The use of natural processes is not always possible Poor pine forests are feature in many Contrary to appearances, such forests are quite from porcinos, to less known russules, milk-caps and webcaps. To ensure the it is necessary to as quickly as possible. It is very important other tree species Each newly which will diversify the species will in the future create a of hundreds of fungal Most of the planting artificial forest regeneration is produced in field nurseries. All our forest trees mycorrhizal species, which means that they without being associated Hence, it is extremely important that tree seedlings are characterized not only by the correct but also by a high by mycorrhizal fungi diversified in terms of species. This is an element influences the planting and afforestation. Many years of research conducted at the Institute of Dendrology of the Polish Academy have proven that the Polish forest nursery can be a model to follow. The world today to the diversity One of them is of forest resources, for example a shift of sustainable forest management to plantation crops. Improper actions can permanently change by simplifying their structure and species composition, which will also have on the world of fungi. The serious consequences can be observed today stands established at the The maladjustment of the species composition to the habitat, the use of seeds and the focus on rapid growth make such forests more The changing climate, more frequent and longer result in massive insects and fungal pathogens. The changing climate frequent extreme such as storms, The cascade of events of the forest's death also affects the world of fungi. Mass forest dieback to the diversity of fungi, especially the symbiotic fungi associated with living trees. This is a loss of habitat for thousands of species of That is why the fight of the forest is so important. For each piece of the forest that resisted the unfavourable, currently observed changes. Among our native fungi, there are more and more Foreign species often make impression Octopus stinkhorn occurs naturally in Australia It came to Europe at the probably along In recent years, it has become quite The octopus stinkhorn's spores are spread by flies attracted by the smell of perishable meat. Another newcomer is a matte Jack. It came to Europe along with Douglas fir. This duo has also been dragged to other parts of the world. In the southern hemisphere, especially in South a matte Jack is in the invasiveness which is a great threat From North America an Aureoboletus projectellus. For several years, it has been more and more often found in the dry pine forests of the coastal belt. This mushroom is known in Poland as a Its characteristic not found in our Aureoboletus projectellus has been harvested by At the end of August they appear en masse, creating thousands and this attracts mushroom from many parts of Poland. ,,Heather boletus" has of coastal forests. However, it should be remembered that this is a species the impact of which on and species of fungi has not yet been understood. Mass collections of meant that it was moved to the interior of the country. The vector that contributes of this fungus to When wandering through forests, we should remember that bushes and undergrowth plants. It is a very complex system in which different groups Among them, fungi play an important role. Remember that the are an important element They are food for many rodents, snails or insects. Therefore, mindless destroying should be avoided. The fact that they are does not mean that Through a number fungi ensure the sustainability and proper functioning It is hard to imagine the sudden and the consequences