Well, I'm pumped. What if I were to tell you that all of the winter day could be found... outside? And that if you could capture the heat energy you could make yourself comfortable using a fraction Sounds impossible at first, doesn't it? If it's colder outside than in, what heat is there to take? But it's very possible, and thanks to heat pumps we can do it right now. And that's what this video is all about. Heat pumps are simultaneously a very old yet also emerging home heating technology. Using a heat pump under ideal conditions requires as little as one fifth the energy of ordinary electric heat. With a coefficient of performance of 2.5 or a heat pump will produce more heat for you per unit of fuel burned in a power plant than you could get by burning that fuel onsite in your home. This tremendous efficiency all but guarantees is the heating technology of the future. But what is a heat pump? Ah, well here's where we need to talk about and also who the primary audience of this video is. I'm making this video mostly for an American audience because we've gone about this in a weird order. We've had air conditioning in a lot of homes for a very long time now. Air conditioning has been more or less standard for more than 50 years, even in a climate like mine where And in places like the Southern US, air conditioning is practically a requirement for basic survival. And the thing is, air conditioners ARE heat pumps. Yet heat pumps, especially in regions like are a rather new thing. Confused yet? Well, in some other parts of the world what is referred to as a reverse cycle air conditioner, and that should give you a pretty solid idea of what's going on. But, because this wouldn't be Technology let's get down and dirty in the nitty gritty of latent heat and the magic of refrigerants. If you'd like to skip this part, skip to [a computer voice reads 7:38] Let's start with a refrigerator - nearly everyone has one of those. What does your refrigerator or freezer do exactly? Well, it needs to make its insides colder than its outsides. That's trickier to accomplish than it seems It has to get heat energy out of itself. See, that's the thing about temperature. What we call temperature is really the concentration If there's a lot of energy crammed in a If the energy is really spread out, it's And thanks to entropy, energy always wants or move from areas of high concentration to low concentration. This freezer's insides are at about 5 degrees But the room it's sitting in is much warmer Because the energy around the freezer is more ambient energy wants to spill into it. Wherever there's a temperature gradient, nature is hot and bothered, frankly, and would very much like it to achieve equilibrium. So eventually the insides of the freezer will warm up. We can slow that down by adding a whole bunch or tweaking its design (in fact, this freezer and this footage was featured but eventually we need to work to reverse this and keep its insides cold relative to its outsides. And to do that, we use a heat pump. A refrigeration system collects heat energy and disperses it in another. It pumps heat. We'll get into how it does that shortly is that even though the inside is very there is heat energy in there. The freezer's heat pump is collecting it yet in doing so it creates warmth. The sides of the freezer get warm when it's and that's the heat it pulled from inside itself being rejected into the surrounding air. What makes this possible is a refrigerant. Refrigerants are gaseous chemical compounds easy to manipulate boiling points. For example, R-134a boils at 15 below zero, or -26 Celsius. That's quite cold. But here's a can of it. It's a liquid in here. How can that be? Well, like any chemical, its boiling point You know how the boiling point of water is That's because higher up in the atmosphere it's easier for water to boil. A rather crude way to think about it is that and that force provides an additional When there's less pressure, it can change which lowers the amount of heat energy it needs to start boiling and thus its boiling point. When there's more pressure, everything is its boiling point goes up. Because this is trapped in this can, it's under higher pressure and can remain a liquid. But when anything changes phases, it needs This latent heat isn't something we can but it is a tremendous amount of energy. For example, getting a given quantity of water takes about seven times as much energy as it does to bring it from room temperature to its boiling point. In other words, if it took 10 minutes to bring it will take 70 minutes on top of that for it to all boil away. That extra energy is being used to free the from their liquid phase into the vapor phase, but it doesn't make the water any hotter. This is, incidentally, the principle on which Another plug? Why yes! How 'bout a third one? We just saw what the release of latent heat in the reusable hand warmer video. Simply by falling from the liquid phase into the sodium acetate gets hot. Its latent heat of fusion is being released which means it gets warm - about as warm as its melting point. To reset it, you put a solid hand warmer in now that it's colder than its surroundings, heat will spill into it, causing it to melt. As it does so, it re-absorbs its latent heat and thanks to the fact that it can be supercooled without freezing it can store it for later use. Refrigerants, just like water and sodium acetate, have to absorb and release latent heat to change phases. What makes them useful is that thanks to their we can force this to happen and use it to our advantage. All we need to do is create a machine which Refrigeration systems are nothing more than that exploits its latent heat of vaporization Using a compressor to create a pressure gradient allows us to force the refrigerant to condense thus releasing its latent heat of vaporization. We can then force it to evaporate and reabsorb Do this in two different locations and you Now I'd like to show you what this looks like. Those of you that skipped to here, welcome back! We're still talking about how refrigeration Thanks to a student at Front Range Community who had hands-on learning with these I have This is used to demonstrate all sorts of refrigeration technologies and learn how to troubleshoot them, but for now I just want to highlight the basics. Inside these pipes is a refrigerant. If you follow them, you'll see that they form a circuit. The compressor is the heart of any refrigeration (it does pump, after all) and it's right here. Hermetic refers to the fact that the black hermetically seals an envelope for the mechanical compressor and its motor to sit inside without letting the refrigerant escape. On the left and right are two heat exchangers. These are the evaporator and the condenser. They are also the condenser and the evaporator. See, they're labeled both. Because they are. This rig's operation is reversible, meaning whether the heat exchanger is an evaporator or a condenser is arbitrary. We'll see how that works in practice shortly but what's really neat about this rig is that we can see liquid refrigerant traveling through it. Many refrigeration systems will have a sight but glass piping? That's a rarity. The refrigerant is only able to liquify because It first entered the compressor as a low pressure but being squeezed into the high pressure side raised its boiling point well above the ambient temperature. The act of compression also made it quite hot. The job of the condenser is to cool it back and it does this by forcing air through densely packed metal fins attached to the copper piping. This forms a heat exchanger with a large surface At this pressure, if the refrigerant were R134a, its boiling point would be raised to about 130degF, much higher than the ambient air temperature. After exiting the compressor it's hotter than even that, but airflow through the heat exchanger helps cool it down. Once the refrigerant has cooled to its artificially raised boiling point, it will start to condense. And as it does that, it releases its latent heat of vaporization. Now even more energy is being released from the refrigerant, and it will stay near its boiling point until the gas has condensed into a liquid. The upshot is that the condenser gets very hot. But where did that heat energy come from? Well, some of it came from the act of compression itself; simply compressing a gas makes it hot because you've squeezed its thermal energy into a smaller space, but most of it came from the refrigerant itself mere moments ago. See, after it's all a liquid it gets held back by some sort of metering device at the end of the condenser. There are various types of metering device the simplest of which is a capillary tube, and their job is to create a restriction in the refrigerant flow and thus maintain the pressure gradient we rely on to make this all work. Once the liquid refrigerant makes it through it finds itself in another heat exchanger, just like the condenser. But here, the pressure is very low thanks What exactly the pressure is will depend on but the pressure is low enough that the boiling For sake of explanation we'll assume it's And here's the key: to boil, the refrigerant And now that its boiling point is below ambient it will spontaneously start boiling and get very cold. To boil, it initially gets the latent heat it needs from itself which brings the remaining liquid down to the new boiling point. From there, it will pull energy from ambient air. See, now that it's colder than ambient air, energy from the air will flow into the refrigerant. Remember, energy always wants to spread out, and now there's a place that's colder than its surrounding for that to happen. Thus the refrigerant is absorbing the energy This heat exchanger is called the evaporator It evaporates here, and condenses over there. So, finally, here's where we get into how and why heat pumps are so cool. I mean hot. Hotly cool, or cooly hot. And why many American audiences may find this See, a lot of us are used to energy flow in We have refrigerators which make their insides And we have air conditioners which make our Refrigeration is for cold! See, here's an air conditioner. This is the condenser, that's the evaporator. The evaporator goes inside. Condenser goes outside (unless of course you have a portable air conditioner). But, but but the job of the air conditioner is to take Duh. Here's a central air conditioner. This is the condensing unit. It has the compressor and the condenser. Heat comes out of here, and that's - that's just the way it is. The evaporator sits above my furnace and makes and seven months out of the year, uh, sits pretty. Here's a mini-split air conditioner. This is the condensing unit, and inside is a self-contained evaporator and blower. Ah but this is also the evaporating unit, and inside is a self-contained condenser and blower! This is reversible, and so is also a heat pump. This mini-split heat pump system has a different but mechanically they're something like 95% identical. There are some technological improvements like a variable-speed compressor and more intelligent controls which help it gain efficiency, but fundamentally the heat pump is no different from the air conditioner. It's a compressor, a metering device, and a fan of some sort to force air through each heat one. The main difference is that the central system and the mini-split has one of its own in the wall-mounted unit. But the minisplit has one additional component that changes it from a cooling-only device to efficient year-round climate control. Let's start with a closer look at it. This is a 1.5 ton unit, or 18,000 BTU or about 5250 watts. The outside unit contains most of its guts is not very easy to take apart. That's not that important, though, as we They're here. And here. The fan forces air through the heat exchanger The inside unit is practically the same thing but it doesn't have the compressor and the fan's a linear blower type thing. Lift this up and there's the other heat exchanger, plain as day. The fan forces air through it and exhausts through this swinging vent guide thingy. The metering device also lives here, I believe uh, please correct me if I'm wrong. In any case, it lives at the end of the liquid that's the smaller of the two, and is the very last thing the refrigerant goes Sometimes. Let's get out the thermal camera and observe this thing. Note that the displayed temperature is likely but it's the visuals that are more important anyway. When it's not running, there is no pressure and the refrigerant pressures in both heat exchangers are roughly equal. In cooling mode, the compressor works to pull and lower the pressure inside of it. This lowers the boiling point of the refrigerant, and any liquid refrigerant remaining in the heat exchanger boils away. This causes the heat exchanger to get very in this mode, it's the evaporator and the refrigerant absorbs latent heat to boil. It has become a thermal sink and energy in sped up with the help of the fan. That ultimately makes the air colder. Meanwhile the outside unit is getting warm. The compressor is forcing the gas it just Under this higher pressure, its boiling shoots way above the ambient temperature out here, so the refrigerant will condense inside the pipes. That makes this the condenser, and the very is now being expelled out here as it recondenses. That heat energy was pumped from inside to outside, and that's what air conditioners do. But here's where things get interesting. Let's ask a simple question. What if the roles could be reversed? Is it possible to collect heat energy in the That would be pumping heat but in the other Well, of course, it is absolutely possible and frankly All you need to do with a basic system like this is move the refrigerant through it backwards. That's it. Now, you can't just run the compressor backwards. Refrigerant can only go through it in one But with just a little bit of extra piping you can change the direction it flows through the rest of the system. Virtually the only difference between this (aside from the variable speed is that the mini-split has a reversing valve and its associated piping. This allows refrigerant to flow in the opposite and that flips the system on its head. Remember how in cooling mode the restriction High-pressure liquid refrigerant built up It would then evaporate in this coil once because the pressure in here was quite low. But, if refrigerant is going the other way, well now the restriction is at the end of this coil! High-pressure liquid refrigerant will build turning this into the condenser where the refrigerant will reject latent heat. Once it makes it through, it finds itself where it will boil and absorb latent heat from the air. That makes the outside unit the evaporator. Take a look. Here, the mini-split is operating in cooling mode. The inside unit is the evaporator, absorbing and the outside unit is the condenser, rejecting it. This is how we expect air conditioning to work. But switch it into heating mode and after a few minutes of idle time to allow the pressures to equalize, the reversing valve switches the direction of the refrigerant flow and the roles become reversed. When the compressor starts up again, the outside unit becomes the evaporator, absorbing heat in the refrigerant, and the inside unit becomes the condenser, rejecting that heat and warming the space. In a sense, it's air conditioning the outside and using the heat collected from that process to warm the space. Here's why this is a big deal. The actual work being done here is compressing Yeah a little energy is being used by the goes into the electric motor which drives the compressor. The refrigerant changes phases in a natural, We just create the right conditions for that to occur. Because of this, this heat pump is able to move up to five and a half times as much heat energy as it actually consumes in electricity. That's frankly amazing. It's like running five space heaters for the cost of one. And why does it work even when it's cold outside? Well, remember that heat energy always wants to spread out. And also remember that the boiling point of So long as you can get the evaporator colder it will be able to capture heat energy as the refrigerant boils. Here the ambient temperature was about 40 but the evaporator coil is much colder than that so it becomes a place ambient energy wants to go. Once the refrigerant is compressed and brought it will condense and release that acquired energy which warms the space. It doesn't matter that the outside air has All we're doing when we heat or cool a room The outside air may have a lower energy concentration, but the refrigerant's energy concentration can be made even lower than that. That's all it takes - make a region colder Since the refrigerant will hold onto that energy and release it when it condenses, just compress it to raise its boiling point, move it inside and boom! Heat from the cold. But it's not all sunshine and rainbows. The trickiest thing about heat pumps like this is that as it gets colder outside, their The Coefficient of Performance, or COP, describes compared to how much it consumes. A COP of 1 is... bad. That's just a one to one ratio, the same as resistive heating. But a COP of 4 is easily attainable under That's pretty much any time it's a few degrees above freezing. Once you're close to freezing, though, well there's a complication. You probably know that an air conditioner This happens because the evaporator's cold Well, if the evaporator is outside... then it's probably gonna collect some moisture. It does. Now, that actually helps with heating since water but if it's close to or below freezing outside... well that water turns to ice once the heat pump has gobbled up its heat energy. Over time, heat pumps like this build up a How quickly this happens depends a lot on if it's a dry day, it'll happen slowly. But if it's humid, it happens pretty fast. And this reduces its effectiveness. Not only does ice on the coils provide a layer of scavenging heat from the air, but eventually the ice impedes the airflow through the coil entirely by filling the gaps between the fins. How do we deal with this? Well, it's actually pretty easy. You can defrost the coil simply by briefly That will melt the frost that's built up at the expense of pulling a little energy back outside. Since this unit has no other means of defrosting, Sensors help it determine when it needs to a huge benefit of the unit being self contained like this is that it knows both the inside and outside temperature, and by monitoring refrigerant pressure it can determine how well it's working. Observe here that prior to defrosting, it to counteract the slowing effects of the ice. [a mechanical buzzing which successively increases in pitch and intensity] Eventually, though, it decides to defrost. [buzzing stops] When it defrosts, it first stops the compressor That makes sure it doesn't blow cold air and allows the outside coil to get hotter. It then restarts the compressor in cooling once again turning the outside coil into the condenser. The heat it's pulling from inside quickly [compressor buzzing again] Once it's concluded that it's done, it stops, reverses the refrigerant flow again and starts the outdoor fan and compressor But it waits to turn the indoor blower back To the user, a defrost simply seems like a but as you've seen it's actually much more complicated than that. However, this reduces its efficiency and ultimately its effectiveness. On cold, humid days it has to defrost rather How do we measure efficiency? Well, because this is the US, we use weird This unit has a SEER of 19, which is pretty That's equivalent to a COP of 5.5. But the seasonal energy efficiency ratio describes cooling. Its HSPF, heating seasonal performance factor, is 10. Luckily we can convert that to the COP, and that means this thing's average coefficient of performance for heating is, at least according to how it's tested, 2.9. So over a typical heating season, you can expect this to deliver almost 3 times as much heat energy as it cost to run. Some days it'll be better, others worse. Over time, though, it would need roughly a to produce the same amount of heat. But there's a catch. This thing is only rated to work down to 5 degrees. Now, it will work below that temperature! In fact, here's some footage I made when it was ten [camera audio] Like it's, it's dangerously cold out here especially to be standing in front of it blowing colder than ambient air at me! Yeah, so I'm gonna go inside. I know this is a terrible tool for this job It was still running and producing some heat, It was also running its guts out so its coefficient of performance in this scenario may have been just 1, or maybe slightly better. This particular heat pump just isn't equipped Which, to be clear, is fine for me. This thing is in my garage and the heating I installed it mainly to remove moisture because Seriously, I left the leather seats from my my first summer and by the fall they were completely Some other stuff got damaged, too, so if I air conditioning was practically a must. But it certainly is handy on milder winter When it's above freezing, the air this thing Like, it genuinely surprised me. In retrospect it shouldn't have, 18,000 BTU is But knowing that the heat it produces is coming And even when it's colder and not that efficient, it has a freeze protection mode that keeps the temperature at 45 degrees, which is enough to melt the snow off my car after a drive and, well, that is a very nice luxury, I'll tell ya that. I usually leave it in that mode. However, it's true that on its own this could not reliably provide me with sufficient heat throughout the winter. I would need a backup source of heat when That's often electric resistive heating But it could also be natural gas or another In whole-home systems with heat pumps, the or auxiliary heat, and many thermostats are But, even in my climate, on many days a heat In fact, that's the case for the vast majority It's not actually all that often that it dips below 5 degrees here. And still, some heat pumps like this are rated It's extremely rare for it to get colder Heat pumps can be made to work in colder temperatures or through electric defrost coils where the outside to allow it to defrost while still operating in heating mode. But let's set aside those potential fixes. Here's a question I've been asking a lot lately: Why isn't this thing also a heat pump? This HVAC system isn't even two years old but no one even bothered giving me the option for a heat pump. Yes, it's cold enough where I live that but I've got 95% of a reversible heat pump sitting right here! This 2.5 ton air conditioner may only be able but on mild days - so the ones a heat pump would be best at - that's more than I need anyway. Heck, even when it was -10 outside, my 70,000 30,000 BTU continuously would have covered but yes I know that output wouldn't have been possible at that ambient temp. I'm just spitballin' here. And it's not like heat pumps systems are unheard of In fact, a patron of the channel has they're actually a little farther North than I am! This outdoor unit is practically the exact for my A/C system, save for the reversing valve and a It functions exactly as the mini-split does, I mean, there's snow on the ground yet it's still working! Since this is almost the exact same machine that reversibility isn't just standard at this point. In fact, in the South reversible heat pumps and have been for years. Since heating demand is usually mild if any relatively few folks have natural gas for heating. When you're all-electric and have air conditioning, you might as well have a heat pump to save money on heating costs. And since all it really takes is a reversing to make that happen, I see it as a no-brainer. Well, usually. When a large, disruptive weather event takes to suddenly need resistive heat because it's too cold that can put an untenable strain on the electric grid. When this video was published, Texas had just Heat pumps certainly were not the cause of as a lot of issues occurred on the generation side of things and based on what I've read, natural gas backup heat is more common than I thought. But the occasional need for an energy-intensive But so far, we've just been talking about These are definitely the most common because, But there are other sources of heat to be And heat pump technology is finding itself as we discover the benefits of moving heat rather than creating it. In part 2, we'll look at some of these solutions and discuss where heat pumps have to go from here. We'll also look at some cost/benefit comparisons and from a climate change perspective. And that's a key reason heat pumps will as time goes on. I said earlier that with a COP of 2.5 you'll than you would burning natural gas onsite. Let me explain that. In 2019 the average efficiency of a natural according to the Energy Information Administration. Now, if you run electric resistive heat from after transmission losses you'll end up getting about 40% of the energy out of the natural gas. Not bad, but you can also burn natural gas and get more than 90% of the energy out of it. It's for that reason that areas like mine capable of delivering it directly to homes. Historically it's been cheaper, easier, and more efficient. But, when a heat pump is running at a COP of 2.5, sure you're still only getting 40% of the energy from the natural gas, but with it you're moving 2.5 times that amount. That means that in the end, you're getting And you can even get more than that! A heat pump is frankly the most effective so even on today's fossil-fired power grid, they're and can help lower emissions. And they also make renewable energy sources While you certainly can use the output from that takes a lot of output and makes storage If everyone had very efficient heat pumps, or perhaps a little less. And while heat pumps like this struggle in there is an alternative. The ground-source or geothermal heat pump with heat pumps even in cold climates. And we'll talk about those, some other novel as well as the need for more climate-friendly refrigerants in the next video. For now, stay warm! coefficient of smooth jazz and that, if you could capture the heat energy out of... [goofy noise] well we're gonna restart this line because. Oh cripe. Eurggh! Just my terrible teleprompter causing me problems again. And the thing is, air condish... and the..pff heh. Ehehhe. ...allows us to manipulate the ambient pressure the refrigerants experience. The S is on the wrong word. That line needs an on-the-fly re-write! Those are always great. ...boiling point shoots way up. Wayyu... the, there are words missing! This is, incidentally, the principle on which automatic rice cookers work. Another plug? Dammit! I hope you're pumped for part 2. I know I am. Gonna talk about them coolant pipes. Digging wells. All that.