From Palermo to Chicago, from Istanbul to Tokyo, from Shanghai to Marseille, mafias are never born by chance. Weakness of States, corruption of elites, the causes are numerous and known. Born in secrecy, mafias thrive underground, deploy their networks illegally and penetrate all places of power. Their colossal profits irrigate the markets of a black economy. Their powers today threaten our democracies. One of the least known and yet most powerful mafias nestles in the heart of Europe. The Corsican mafia has been spreading its web across all continents for a century. It was not born, it could only exist and develop with the complicity of part of the French State. It is the story of this dangerous relationship that these films tell. Originally, an island, a city. At the beginning of the 20th century, the island of Corsica was an ocean of misery. To survive, thousands of young people go into exile on the continent where the entry point is Marseille. The city of Douche is, like all major ports in the world, the obligatory place through which all goods in circulation pass. Raw materials, agricultural and industrial products. Clandestine activities are developing there. Trafficking and contraband, illicit substances and receiving stolen goods, soliciting and gambling circles. There's something for everyone, those who want to have fun and those who want to make money. And all these activities are concentrated around the port and the docks. Indeed, Marseille is a large Mediterranean port city, about a quarter of which, even a third, is immigrant. Fairly recent. It is the most cosmopolitan city in France, in this sense. It is a city that occupies a rather special place. Out of 500,000 Marseillais, 100,000 Italians, the first Algerians and 60,000 Corsicans settled in the basket, where unsanitary hotels and patched-up slums flourish. The Corsicans, who left their island in desolation, discovered the poverty of the big cities. Among those uprooted from the Isle of Beauty, a man, Simon Sabiani. Born in the center of Corsica, in the small village of Casamaccioli, Sabiani arrived in Marseille at the age of 20. He began his law degree and went into business when the First World War broke out. Like all young men, the Corsicans were sent to the front in 1914. Volunteers, Sabiani plunged into the hell of the trenches. There, in the mud mixed with blood, he fights alongside another Corsican, the brother of a man who will mean a lot to Sabiani. His name, Paul Carbone. Originally from Propriano, Paul Carbone grew up in Marseille. A turbulent gang leader, he is arrested for assault and battery and sent to the Bat d'Af, the disciplinary battalions of Africa where the elite of the thugs rub shoulders. Mobilized, Carbone finds himself on the front line on the Chemin des Dames, where he uses the knife to hold the corpses in the coffins. The war ends. Injured, Carbone returns to Marseille. Like him, Sabiani joined the Marseille city. But for now, everyone goes their own way. Sabiani, who lost three of his four brothers on the battlefield, entered politics with a hatred of war. He joined the Socialist Party, quickly joined the Communist Party before founding the Autonomous Communist Federation which spread to the Corsican districts of Marseille. This is how he began his political life and little by little, he gained supporters in a very modest neighborhood where he lived. He finds supporters among his neighbors, among his friends. A neighborhood of workers, modest employees, small civil servants, customs officers. It's his springboard, his own political springboard. Sabiani founded the port sailors' defense committee, led the philanthropic association of Corsican customs officers, and grouped his support in the association Les Amis de Simon Sabiani. Every day, islanders who only speak Corsican come to ask for his help. Elected municipal councilor, then general councilor, the ambitious Corsican created a network using the most classic method of the political system of the Third Republic, clientelism. It is a system which consists of exchanging for a ballot the services that a protector is able to provide. It's almost feudal. You know what I told you earlier , Mr. Sabini, it's night time. Listen, for this matter, you have to come back to me. Because I can't see the elements. Needed right now. It's night time, so I'll come back. I met Sabiani's daughter several times. She told me how, as a young girl, she saw in front of the door of their house the sons of beggars who came to ask for favors, positions at the town hall, a reduction in a fine. This is a rather favorable arbitration in an administrative conflict. It is an intervention so that the child has a job, finds a job with a municipality, with a local structure. You have to understand that you are never someone's customer for nothing. Among the thousands of small services rendered, Simon Sabiani found accommodation for Paul Carbone's mother. Since the trenches, a sincere friendship links the politician to this family. Paul Carbone left Marseille for adventure. Engaged in maritime couriers, the company which connects France to its colonies, he travels the seas of the world. The Corsicans constituted the backbone, basically, of the French colonial administration. But they were not only in the colonial administration. They have also been in business, in legal affairs and also in less legal affairs. And we find Corsicans in Indochina, in North Africa, in short, in all the former French possessions or at least in the entire French sphere of influence. This will be an important element for organized crime of Corsican origin, of Corsican essence, to take off. Because indeed, there will always be somewhere a cousin, the friend of a cousin, the friend of a friend of a cousin, well you see, we can go very far like that, who will be able to make a little service. At first. From the 1920s, Carbone trafficked opium and established contacts in all the trading posts where the Corsican diaspora was established. Thanks to the profits, Carbone bought his first bar in Marseille. He sells opium and girls there. But Carbone can't hold still and runs off to Egypt. In Cairo, he meets his alter ego, the man with whom he will build an empire, Francois Spirito, a Sicilian who immigrated to Marseille at a very young age. Cairo is the hub of the white slave trade. Carbone and Spirito bring girls from France there, sell them or lock them up in their extremely lucrative brothel. from France, resell them or lock them up in their extremely lucrative brothel. Expelled from Egypt in the mid-1920s, the two men returned to Marseille and established themselves there. These two men are united in an inseparable way. It's a little bit of the strength and cunning, the brutality of Spirito, because in fact, he has under a two, he is under the exterior of someone powdery, extremely mannered. He is someone extremely violent, who is ready to kill to dominate the scene, the Marseille hut. And then Carbone, who has done the 400 moves and who is absolutely not afraid of anything. So the two of them are fooling around and the two of them dominate the city. The rise of Carbone and Spirito is dizzying. They have under their command an army of thugs, bar managers around the Opera district, brothels in the basket, contacts in Asia, the Middle East and the Americas, where the mafia is beginning to take shape. cilo-american. Obviously, we can't do that without having friends and protection. He mentions in reports that I discovered bribes which were paid to police officers in order to facilitate trafficking from that time on. On the other hand, they also need political protection in Marseille, this is obviously important. Carbone et Spirito radiated from the district of La Joliette, at the foot of Pagne, when, in 1928, Simon Sabiani was elected deputy. Sabiani knows what's behind Carbone and Spirito's legal facade. Carbone is the first Corso-Marseillais gangster whose driving force is investment and expansion. For the king of Corsican patronage, Carbone is a sort of colleague from the other side of the mirror. Sabiani is not here to denounce them. On the contrary, he will use them. The year is 1929, a municipal election year. Marseille is held by the old doctor Simeon Flaissieres, who is seeking a seventh term. But Fleissiere, accused of embodying a damaged socialism, lost the support of his party. He turns to Sabiani. Very courted, followed by the Corsicans of Marseille, Sabiani could swing the vote. To convince him, he did. Flaissieres promises him the position of first deputy. Flaissieres is aging. Sabiani accepts the proposal. We are surprised in Marseille that such a considerable number of workers follow me. But if we had truly looked for the causes of the situation that has been created for me from a political point of view, we would know that in Marseille, it is workers who are at my side. At the time, the campaigns were extremely violent. Each candidate has his own security service which confronts that of the adversary. Simon Sabiani does not have an efficient security service. Paul Carbone will ensure his safety. At first it all happened in bars. This was where election meetings were held. The owners of these bars were frequently men from the industry or those connected to the industry. And the physical violence that could occur, given that these bars, these meeting places were close to each other, we needed somewhat special services. It was a question of suppressing the adversary, sometimes with revolver shots. And there, it is obviously in this area that the environment could be useful for something. The first political-mafia alliance in France was born here, in a totally cynical deal. In exchange for the carbon henchmen, Sabiani promises that if he wins the elections, he will reserve municipal jobs for them. It's surprising to find these people from the community, finally, just a handshake away from a local elected official, one ensuring their security, ensuring the security of their meetings, making a slap during the meetings, possibly punching the opponents. We are faced with violent people, capable of great violence, but who are capable of conceptualizing it, of using it, of using it in the case of a strategy. Who are you going to vote for? For Sabiani. And why ? For what ? Because he is the man truly capable of defending the interests with dignity of the pro-letarian class in Marseille. On election day, we stuff the ballot boxes and make the dead vote. As a result, Flaissieres was re-elected. Sabiani takes the position of first deputy. Carbone has the hiring office. In the municipal police, in sports organizations, but also in land registers, cemeteries or firefighters, Carbone Spirito's men settle in, drown and allow the two bandits to take control of a large part of the city. Carbone and Spirito are the kings of the night, of gambling, of women's work and of town hall. Two years later, the octogenarian mayor, Simeon Flaissieres, died in his bed, as expected. The City Council elects a straw man. Simon Sabiani increases his control over Marseille and Carbone consolidates his hold there. it was the first steps of these villainous links which will be built between politics and the environment. And then, it's always the same mechanism that is put in place. That is to say, when you enter into a doubtful relationship with the environment, the very logic of this environment, if it is intelligent and if it is well structured, is to try to always go further away to make his business profitable in relations with politics. This is called rogue links. Member of Parliament, Simon Sabiani often goes to Paris. He becomes friends with a Corsican, Jean-Cap, police prefect of the capital. Anti-communist, anti-Semitic and anti-Republican, Jean-Cap is an enigma of the Third Republic against which he plots. At the beginning of the 1930s, the prefect was confronted with a profound change in Parisian crime. Paris, which until now was in the hands of small groups of delinquents who, in general, predated on their neighborhood, the sautopaths of La Villette, the uprights of Belleville are in the process of disappearing in favor of organizations which, there it is, are structured. We suddenly see many Corsicans appear there. The Corsicans import the vendetta to the capital. Blood is flowing in the streets of Paris. Cap absolutely must put an end to this. Sabiani presents Carbon in Cape Town. By ostensibly appearing with the Corso Marseillais mafioso, the prefect sends a signal to the Parisian underworld. "Hold on to your men, let the bourgeois without any worries." What is interesting with this so-called vendetta of the Corsicans of Paris against the Corsicans of Marseille is that it is an affair which will lastingly structure the French environment by forcing everyone to take a position and participate and contribute to the architecture of organized crime. Corsican type French. Away from the Parisian vendettas, Carbone plays with the different clans and wins in Montmartre. Carbone then developed a new activity, the most successful of all, the refining of the poppy into opium and its manufacture into morphine base, the ancestor of heroin. These are the first somewhat artisanal laboratories which will be installed in the area of Bandole, near Marseille. And there, we are going to call on chemists and they have expertise that they have been developing since the 1930s to install what will soon be the French Connexion. At the time we are talking about, in the 1930s, the drug addict population of Paris did not exist. These are very, very, very marginal cases. We are dealing with a very small population of consumers and a very small population which, in addition, is limited to a very specific group which tends to have money. In Paris, Carbone and Spirito spawn with a Monegasque truant. Electoral agent for the highest bidder politicians, Baron de Lussatz. The three friends organize some of the sumptuous parties in Paris during the Roaring Twenties. Miss Tinguette, Jean Gabin, Remu and young Tino Rossi rush to their table, joined by the wealthy, eager for thrills. A world of glitz and corruption where one man makes money flow. Alexandre Stavisky, the greatest crook of the interwar period. The man is the close friend of Carbone's mistress, the gypsy mother Macrel. Stavisky corrupted the entire ruling class, politicians, magistrates, journalists. Discredit falls on the elites. Unmasked, Stavisky committed suicide in January 1934. The scandal shook the Third Republic. Prefect Kiap encourages the far right to use the affair. He resigned. In reaction, on February 6, 1934, the king's peddlers, the young patriots, the fiery crosses and the veterans wanted to storm the National Assembly. The police open fire. Sixteen dead, more than 1,500 injured. The government resigns. Carbone will boast to his young mistress Manouche of having taken out his revolver and fired at the police at Place de la Concorde. A boast? Not sure. The Cape prefect ousted, Carbone and Spirito lose their Parisian protection. The two thugs then find themselves propelled into full light. As for Albert Prince, the magistrate in charge of the investigation into Stavisky's death, was found with his head severed on a railway track. The death of Councilor Albert Prince is surrounded by mysterious circumstances, crimes or suicides. The police are investigating. They were found lengthwise on the rail 20 meters away. Inspector Pierre Bonnie, in charge of the investigation, accuses Chiap and the Corsican godfathers of being behind the murder. Carbone, Spirito and Baron de Lussat are arrested and thrown in prison. One of the rare opportunities for the press to have an image of the gangsters. Paul Carbone, known as Ventour. Is the most famous gangster. From Marseille. He's been involved in quite a few shady affairs, but until now. He was never caught. Accused of being the protector of the godfathers, Sabiani organizes their defense. He denounces the manipulations of Inspector Bonnie and covers the walls of Marseille with this poster and this sentence, which has become legendary in the relationship between the Corsican mafia and the French Republic, "Carbon is my friend and will remain my friend. >> A French politician publicly claims his sulphurous friendships with the community. Why did he do it? I do not know. But in this culture of clientele, of clan leader, of favor, of loyalty, it was a way of saying "I am an honorable man. I recognize my friends, I will always support them. >> At that moment, Carbone and Spirito, because they have the support of Sapiani, will appear as the hexagonal incarnations of this new type. Of banditry. Which we will then call "gangsterism". It's a bit like these relationships between environment and politics. Burst at the. Big day and that. Polarizes all attention, we only talk about that, we analyze the phenomenon. We wonder if it is close to the Italian mafia because we see the word mafia also being used at that time. We are convinced that the mode of operation. American politics has arrived in France. We thought we were safe and we are not. Marseille is then compared to Chicago, and Carbone to Al Capone. Al Capone had his heyday during Prohibition, but he let himself get drunk. Too much pomp and too much violence hastened its fall. The godfather of Chicago fell in 1931. The mobsters discovered that the noise and ultraviolence made them extremely vulnerable. They must flee and the light. Paul Carbone is well aware of this. In the Prince case, Inspector Bonnie's accusation is based on wine. The three men were not at the scene on the day of the murder. Innocent, Paul Carbone, Francois Spirito and Baron de Lussat are released. Saint-Charles station, Sabiennet organizes a grandiose welcome for Carbone et spiritaux. Hundreds of curious people watch their descent of healthy beer. In the evening, at the back of a restaurant, after a few glasses of champagne enjoyed with friends, we let our photos be taken for glory. There are only two photographs from the same series bringing together Sabiani, carbon and spirito. This one and that one. These are rare images, visible proofs, of this invisible power. The riots of February 6, 1934 turned French political life upside down. Socialists and communists joined forces with the yes vote and created the Popular Front. Immediate consequence, in the municipal elections of 1935 in Marseille, the Sabiani list is threatened. His rival, the socialist Henri Tasso, recruited a security service to fight that of Carbone and Spirito. He calls on two young, long-toothed Corsican pimps, the Guerini brothers, who will embody the second generation of the Corsican mafia. Antoine and Bartelemy Guerini left their small village of Calenzana, on the outskirts of Maki, to live on the continent. In Marseille, they started with women's work. Like their elders carbon and spirito, they bought a bar and placed their first daughter on a piece of sidewalk. Their six brothers and sisters joined them to support them. In 1935, Antoine and Barthelemy could already count on dozens of accomplices, henchmen and associates. They needed protection. Socialists by tradition, they lined up behind Tasso. During the campaign, the Guerini clan faces Carbone's gun-toting guns. The violence continues, especially as a third Corsican clan puts itself at the service of the radical candidate, the clan of the Rene Nucci brothers. There is already a whole criminal nebula that revolves around the political world of the municipality. There is a system and I'm not exactly saying that there are mafias, but there is a mafia system of corruption, of audes, that is to say of political- criminal exchanges which, let's say, pollutes the political life of the city. At the polls, the wind of history is clear. The socialist Henri Tasso wins hands down. The Guerinis have their men hired at the town hall. Simon Sabiani switches to the opposition. Carbone Esperito loses their political protector. The Sabiani plus Carbone Spirito clan was a little defeated in 1935. It arrived at the popular fund which will ensure that Sabiani and his friends will be a little removed from political power in Marseille. And so it's the Guerini who, from 35-36, begin to get on the stage a little more and to dominate the scene a little bit. These four figures, Carbone-Spirito, Meme and Antoine Guerini, look at each other, know each other. Sabiani's defeat shakes the system of Carbone and Spirito. Their impunity is threatened, their authority over the environment is contested. Spirito is a supporter of the radical method, liquidating the Guirini clan. Carbone, more strategist, thinks it is time to talk. There is a brief glimpse of a very drunken lunch in which Carbone and Spirito give their approval to the fact that the Guerinis are taking a small piece of the pie, but not the whole pie. As if it were a business table discussion . But hey, here we are, we get together, we talk. &quot; Good. You have such and such a neighborhood, you have such and such a neighborhood. >>Marie-Christine Guerini is the daughter of Bartelemy Guerini, the youngest of the two brothers. Between her family photos and press clippings, Marie-Christine sorts her memories, those of the daughter of a godfather in the industry. Still, still, Antoine, he has to explain. To my father, grandma, who still has to have a discussion to divide things up. The territories. Or you absolutely have to. Take out the famous things that I inherited and that I left in the trunks. But they know how to get along to manage the city and basically distribute traffic as necessary. You, if you want women, you take women. At that point, you take the old neighborhoods of Marseille and it's good. That's what they did. And then, Carbone has this sentence which seals the fate of the Corsican mafia. On the island, we can bicker. On the continent, the Corsicans must stick together. This is something that has been decided and will not be discussed again. This meeting is the founding act of the Corsican mafia. It lays the foundations of its organization, diffuse, flexible and not very hierarchical. The different clans must respect the specialty and territories of each other. In exchange, in Carbone's words, for a modest fee. The henchmen infiltrated at the town hall serve everyone. The main thing for Carbone and Spirito is to maintain control of the port, weave their webs between Marseille and Paris, France and the colonies, Europe and America. For the moment, Corsica is protected from all traffic. The island of beauty is preserved. At the same time, in the United States, the Sicilian-American mafia was structured and became a real consortium. American Cosa Nostra was born, a pyramidal and hierarchical structure with a stated ambition, to create the first crime syndicate. In 1936, France entered a new era. The Popular Front wins the elections. Leon Blum is appointed to Matignon. In Marseille, Simon Sabiani, the former strongman of local politics, loses his deputy seat. In all this, where is Sabiani? He is gradually isolated. And where, in all this, is the Sabianime? This customer policy, of day-to-day friendship? It is a problem. The polarization of French political life allowed Sabiani to get back in the saddle. In Paris, the first French fascist party, Jacques Doriot's PPF, was born. The party we belonged to for a long time, which was called the Communist Party. Like Sabieni, Jacques Doriot is a disenchanted former communist. Doriot founded a party which had ambitions to be a national party. It speaks vaguely of socialism within the framework of the nation. So, we see where this could lead. These are the elements of a rather confused fascism. For Sabiani, ideas don't count, but I believe that at that moment, Doriot seems to have hypnotized Sabini. And in him, Sabini saw the way to find a political future. Simon Sabini becomes one of the leaders of the PPF in Marseille. The party's security service is mainly made up of Corsicans recruited by Carbone and Spirito. They were on the front line when the Spanish Civil War broke out in 1936. The port of Marseille was strategic for supplying the belligerents. Aid to the Republicans clandestinely mobilized the communist and socialist apparatuses supported by the Guerini. Carbone and Spirito work for Franco. With the PPF, they prevent ships destined for the Republicans from leaving the port. The Renucci clan lends them a helping hand. Carbone and Spirito ship hundreds of tons of weapons and ammunition under colossal contracts amounting to several hundred million francs. On this occasion, the two sponsors opened counters in the port of Envers, in Belgium. Embargoes are increasing and increasing trafficking opportunities for organized crime. All is well. Morphine like parmesan, alcohol like weapons, money flows freely. At the town hall or at the port, Marseille is completely plagued by corruption. At that time, Henri Tasso was mayor of the city. He inherited it in 1935. He inherited a city which is very indebted and which suffers from too many municipal agents. Who are often in addition agents who were recruited by Sabiani and who do not have the skills. For the positions for which they were recruited. Who are often convicted criminals. So, we see very well. How at that time, there was also a slippage in the customer mode of operation. All this came to light when, in 1938, the new galleries, a large store on the Canebiere, burned down. On October 28 , 1938, a day of great Mistral on the Canebiere, the luxurious facade of the department store Les Nouvelles Galleries caught fire. The Marseille firefighters are unable to deal with it. The fictitious jobs scandal turns into a tragedy. The building collapses. 73 dead were found in the rubble. Parliament launches an investigation. The government places the city under supervision. The administration is taken over by the State. Tasso is fired. There is no longer a mayor in Marseille. Marseille's reputation as a mafia city is spreading throughout Europe. ...and up there, in Montmartre, the party casts its joyful glow. In Paris, Carbone and Spirito expand their empire. At night, they are in the heart of a gray zone where politicians, showbiz stars and industrialists meet. Carbone and Spirito are looking for new men, better educated, capable of speaking the language of this bourgeoisie sensitive to etiquette. capable of speaking the language of this bourgeoisie sensitive to etiquette. capable of speaking the language of this bourgeoisie sensitive to etiquette. A young man then appears in their first circle. Etienne Leandrier went to Paris to study law. Fine and cultured, with the physique of a young star, he quickly exercises his talents as a gigolo. He doesn't know many people. He comes from a modest family. He has an uncle in customs who introduces him to the big world. So he hangs out at some bars. It goes in particular to Georges V, which is a place where there is still a bit of Paris. And so at the Georges V, at the bar of the Georges V, there, he really rubs shoulders with the elite, the elite of business, the elite of showbiz. Spotted by Carbone, who often sees him leaving in the arms of desperate women, Leandri is very quickly invited to the godfather's table. Obviously, he meets Carbone and Spirito because they are very meetable. They are spectacular people. These are people with whom he will form relationships while not being completely with them. These are real bandits, real armed bandits, real dangerous bandits. Etienne Leandri's masterstroke, hugging during a tango one of the richest women in the world, Renee Brodier, the wife of the American Virgil Neal, who is at the head of Tokalon, the empire of cosmetic. Leandri is just 20 years old, Renee 40 and her husband 60. It is said that Neal gave them his blessing, which was very generous of him. They organize incredible parties. They bought a house which today is one of the largest French luxury hotels. It's 90 domestic workers, lapis lazuli, gold. Everywhere, endless cars. Each car has its own staff, its driver, and in delivery adapted to the car, they incurred expenses which were considerable for the good alone. Of their friends, of the party, of the night, of the alcohol and the laughter. In a few months, Etienne Leandri rose to the official rank of Rene Brodier and confidants of Virgil Neal. The company was very decentralized, partly for tax reasons, but also to protect him and his company. Leandri discovers all the schemes of multinationals, tax havens and money laundering techniques. Leandri dreams of taking the place of the chef. He also discovered the underworld of the far right, Virgil Neal being one of Mussolini's richest supporters. Neal didn't bother with any constraints. He was involved in many legal affairs, but also illegal ones. And Leandri was a bit like him. Leandri is as comfortable in the heart of the elite as in the lower depths. Carnone immediately puts him on some drug cases. In 1938, Leandri was arrested with two illicit substance traffickers. imprisoned, he spent three months in La Sante prison before being acquitted. In the summer of 1939, a few weeks before the outbreak of World War II, Leandri arrived in the United States with Rene Brodier. He wants to take a stake in Old Neal's empire. But the very well-informed American feds suspect him of making contacts with the American mafia. From New York to San Francisco, Leandri is tracked by the narcotics who find nothing. The couple of lovers, for their part, fail to dispossess old Neal. An agreement exists in a contract that I discovered. I think Neal wanted to make sure Leandro e and Rene didn't gain too much power within the company. Virgil Neal had taken the lead. When they return to Europe, Leandri and his mistress discover a new world, that of war and occupation, where landmarks waver, where order creates disorder, where, for the first time, the Corsican mafia goes penetrate the highest cogs of the political world. At the beginning, however, everything starts badly for the mafiosi. France is cut in two. In the South, the regime of Marshal Petain launched the national revolution, supposed to cleanse the country of the rotten gangrene of the Republic. The internment camps bring together, in addition to Jews, communists, stateless people and Freemasons, all the hoodlums listed by the police. Carbone, Spirito and their men find themselves behind bars in the bastide of Sisteron. Simon Sabiani is back in favor. Head of the PPF for the South zone, he has the ear of the downstream and becomes the strong man of collaboration in Marseille. Sabiani goes to Vichy and he asks the downstream, who at the time was Petain's prime minister, to release these thugs. He says "We need it for the national revolution, etc." >>the police officers, although they are from the Vichy police, when they look at who the interned people are, they say "They are dangerous people. But the approval is firm and he gives authorization to Sabiani to release these thugs. In the occupied zone, the Gestapo wanted to radicalize the occupation and eliminate everything that hindered the Third Reich. For this, he needs men on site. Let's enrich Berlin says Lafont "First class criminal is one of them. He will exercise his talents in political and economic intelligence, spoliation, tracking down resistance fighters and Jews with the power to search, arrest, torture, endure and liquidate, if he sees fit. Very effective, Lafont will be spotted by Helmut Knorrhen, the head of counter-espionage of the Gestapo. Helmut Knorrhen supports Lafont. This means that roughly speaking, Lafont is untouchable. Untouchable for the French police, untouchable for the community and untouchable for the Germans themselves. He becomes a kind of extraordinary character as only wars can create. France recruits criminals whom he takes out of prison and sets up his team on rue Lauriston in the 16th arrondissement, creating the famous cabin of sinister memory. We have rarely brought together delinquents of this caliber in the same group. And we also find some crooked police officers Lafont enlists the services of Inspector Bonnie, the one who arrested Carbone Spirito in the Stavisky affair. Everything from the underworld, count of trash, finds themselves enlisted in the cabin, including many men from the Carbone and Spirito system. Carbone stays at a distance. He doesn't forget the humiliation that Bonnie put him through. Lafont will therefore recruit a certain number of corps in his team, who will not so much take care of collaborative actions, but will be more involved in predation actions, that is to say attacks with hands. armies, covered by the Loriston Street service and actions of pillaging, particularly pillaging of Jewish property. So, we see criminals with a Marseille accent, shouting &quot;German police&quot; almost everywhere in Paris, entering people's homes, brutalizing them, robbing them, stealing from them and all that under the gaze of , ultimately, we will say, powerless to the French police. They became characters who had the right to continue their activities, but with a police card. as soon as Sabiani freed him, Carbone and Spirito enlisted in the Gestapo. They are now Wehmann, that is to say men of confidence. Brandishing their Rolls-Royce which allows them to cross the demarcation line at will, Carbone and Spirito benefit from total impunity. In Marseille, they put themselves at the service of Sabiani. In Paris, their brothels and restaurants welcomed German dignitaries. The community was especially interested in black markets. Where did Carbon and Spirito get their income from? It's contraband, it's illicit substances, it's white trafficking, it's women's work. The German officers wanted their food, their weapons mania, everything the black market could provide. For carbon and spirito, the Germans become customers. In one fell swoop, the thief can become a trader. Suddenly, the thug becomes a police officer. Suddenly, the racketeer finally becomes a sort of tax collector. The border between the community which deals with the black market and the others which deal with denouncing resistance fighters and Jews is sometimes quite blurry. A few streets from La Garlingue, at 11 boulevards Flandrin, sits SS commander Roland Nosek, an expert in political intelligence. Nosek meets a man who quickly becomes indispensable, Etienne Leandri. When the war breaks out, Etienne finds himself in Paris, in an environment where he is not shocked by the Germans, ultimately. The young Corsican guides Nosek through the Parisian nights, introducing him to the heart of Pigalle's crime scene , offering him a pool of cheap informants on a platter. He also invites her to the big parties given by the Neal couple. Leandri corrupts Nosek by fulfilling all his desires. At parties in occupied Paris, they go out all the time, he introduces him to girls, he finds him food, he provides him with girls. There is an intimate and complicit collaboration. Yes, the Gestapo is evil. Housed, he helps her find accommodation. Leandri creates a parallel business in Tokalon, the Accra cosmetics company. His only clientele, the Nazis. In a few months, Leandri made his fortune. He boasts of spending more than 25,000 francs per day and takes pride in financing Doriot's PPF. On November 8, 1942, the Allies landed in North Africa. In response, the Germans invade the free zone. The Second World War enters a new phase. Marseille switches to German time. The Gestapo requisitions a private mansion at 425 rue Paradis. Lacking informants, the Nazi leaders turned to the strong man of Marseille, the leader of the PPF Simon Sabiani. When the Germans arrived, they set up their security services and with 50 or 60 agents, Section 4, which was responsible for hunting down Jews, hunting down resistance fighters, was incapable of managing all that. And they needed indicators, at least two or three hundred in Marseille. And among these indicators, there were quite a few members of the PPF. Simon Sabiani is the figure of the PPF in Marseille and as a henchman, he obviously has carbon and spirito on his right. And so, carbon and spirito are completely committed to the camp of collaboration with henchmen who will become killers, hired killers, who will torture, who will pillage, who will arrest Jews, resistance fighters, who will will also be paid to the head of the resistance. I take the example of Palmieri, the most sinister character that he is. He employed, I believe, around a hundred inspectors, quote, for this task, who received a salary and a bonus of 1,000 francs for each Jew they arrested. Who was Palmieri? He entered the town hall in 1933 thanks to Sabiani. Palmieri was always somewhat of a member, a friend of Sabiani and a member of the PPF. If Carbone, Spirito, Renucci and their men collaborate ardently, the Guerini join the resistance. They have an ambivalent role because they have an interest in bars, in luxury hotels and the German clientele, the political clientele, obviously, continue to come to them. But they sometimes protect in their cellar a certain number of resistance fighters, Jews whom they help to hide or escape. They are going to have a double game, in a way. Faithful to his commitments to the socialists, Bartelemy Guerini enlisted very early alongside a young lawyer, Gaston Deferre, who was at the head of the Brutus resistance network. Brutus' network is originally an intelligence network, which has its radios, which sends reports to London and reports. Valuable, especially for everything that concerns relations with parties. Policies being reconstituted. But gradually, the question of creating what we call a branch will arise . Action for the network, therefore a military branch intended to fight in the perspective of liberation. In this hollow of socialist militias around Gaston Deferre, we will find sincere activists, ex-convicts and many Corsicans. It is in this context. That we're going to look for big guys who have weapons , who know how to do it. Trafficking in false documents, they know how to traffic in counterfeit currencies, they know how to do it. They know how to do robberies to raise money, to buy weapons. You see, you understand. They know the use of weapons, etc. Carrying out an ad hominem operation , that is to say killing a German officer, is not easy. They have weapons skills. We don't look at who comes, who joins the resistance. We don't look at the origin. So there are sincere resistance fighters who are pure politicians. And then there are thugs, thugs who have converted and found a new cause to defend. And eventually, it's the men who love adventure, who love the gun. And the guerinis are one of those people. The resistance multiplies the attacks. At the beginning of January 1943, a Marseille brothel frequented by German soldiers was targeted. The Nazis decide to destroy these slums of Marseille held by the Underworld which they consider to be the canker of Europe. On the heights of the Phocaean city, Bousquet, for the French police, and Auberg, for the SS, supervised the action of 12,000 men. The major figures of the Corsican Underworld in Marseille are incarcerated. Taking advantage of these protections, Carbon is quickly released, just like Antoine Guerini, while his brother, Bartelemy, sentenced to death, manages to escape. During the first big roundup in Marseille, 6,000 people were arrested, 1,600 were deported, including many Jews who would never return. In the days that followed, more than 1,500 buildings were razed and 14 hectares were destroyed. The destruction of the stronghold of the Corso- Marseille mafia redistributes the cards of political alliances. Jo Renucci distances himself from the collaboration and approaches Commissioner Blemant, who organized a network of patriotic thugs from the Underworld. Blemant is a war cop. This is not a cop who can be in peacetime. That is to say, it's a war cop where they don't worry about anything. There is only one thing that matters, and that is efficiency. He says he hunts down his enemies with the cruelty and delicacy of a mafia killer. But it is true that Blemant goes about searching for war criminals with excessive zeal. In July 1943, the allies landed in Sicily. To ensure the success of the operation, the ancestor of the CIA, the OSS, negotiated with the mafia boss Sicilian-American, Lucky Luciano, imprisoned for several years. When American troops landed on the island, they were guided by Cosa Nostra. The allies entrust the administration of Sicily to the mafia. Shortly after, Corsica liberated itself. Thanks to its resistance fighters mobilized in each village, the island routed an entire SS division. Corsica has the fortune and honor of being the first piece liberated from France. The courage of the islanders in the face of the Nazi occupiers contrasts with the infamy of many Corsican mafiosi in the diaspora. Feeling the tide turning, Carbon decides to reach Franco's Spain. In December 1943, he boarded a night train in Paris to join his mistress, Manouche, and flee with her. But shortly after midnight, resistance fighters blew up the train. The right carbon leg is severed, the left cut down to the tibia. When Spirito arrives at his bedside, Carbon has just taken his last breath. The highest dignitaries of the collaboration flocked to this funeral orchestrated by Etienne Leandri. In the church, the choirs sing the Ave Maria around Tino Rossi. Among those who came to pay tribute to the first Corsican godfather in history, we recognize Simon Sabiani. Carbone's death heralds the end of one mafia clan and benefits the rise of another, that of the Guerini brothers. Barthelemy distinguished himself in the ranks of socialist partisans, alongside several hundred men, mostly Corsicans from the basket. At their head, Decker plans sabotage actions with a view to the allies' barren debate. The bonds formed in clandestine combat in dark hours have a strength that escapes us a little. It was in situations where these men were at risk. Their life and there are quite strong bonds that are formed at that moment. On June 6, 1944, the allies landed in Normandy. In Paris, the men of rue Lauriston separate. Legend has it that Laffont, before his execution for high treason, entrusted the loot of the French Gestapo to a Corsican mafioso , consisting of jewels, gold and 'money. For the last ones, those who are very compromised, there are people who will leave. These are people we will find in Latin America. I am thinking in particular of Joseph Ricor, who is the only Corsican to have stayed with Lafont. But people like that leave and actually become kingpins of what we then call, a few years later, the French Connection. In Paris, Etienne. Leandri still believes in Germany's victory. Dressed in his Gestapo uniform, he meets his friend, SS Roland Nosek, at Fouquet's and celebrates with him one last time. Big party with Nosek at Fouquet's and they say goodbye. Etienne fills the Bentley with lingos and food then sets off on the road. Etienne Leandri, joined Berlin and enlisted in the espionage and infiltration school of the Third Reich. Sabiani, flee to Germany too. He went to Germany with his family and several hundred members of the French People's Party. It joins Sigmaringen, except that it is right next door, in a small town of Mangan. And then he once again starts working like crazy, doing everything to try to save the situation. The same day Sabiani fled, the allies landed in Provence. The fighting was extremely violent and was locally coupled with a race for power between Gaullists, communists and socialists. Marseille was liberated on August 28, 1944. The next day, the socialists took power in the Marseille city. They head the liberation committee installed at the department prefecture. Gaston Deferre is appointed president of the municipal delegation. Among his faithful are Antoine and Barthelemy Guerini. They will surround Gaston Deferre, help him take power both at the time of the liberation and then at the town hall of Marseille. And so afterwards, they will be very well installed politically to be protected and included in their illegal activities. The Sabiani Carbone and Spirito clan, which laid the foundations for the Corsican mafia and dominated Marseille since the end of the 1920s, has disintegrated. All are sentenced to death in absentia. After his stop in Singmaringen, Sabiani was in Milan, Buenos Aires and finally Barcelona, where he died. His body will be buried in his native village of Casamaccioli, in Corsica. Spirito went directly to Spain before going incognito to Canada, then to the United States. It will become one of the pillars of the French connection. As for Etienne Leandri, he left Berlin in April 1945 and took refuge in Geneva, then in Milan, from where he prepared his flamboyant return. Everything is in place for the second era, with a base now well established, Marseille. Shanghai, Beirut, Hanoi, Tangier. The Corsican mafia is constituted as a criminal diaspora. Born in Marseille, from a villainous pact formed between an unscrupulous politician and ambitious godfathers, the Corsican mafia extends its ramifications to every corner of the French empire. Following the Second World War, to guarantee a certain vision of the interests of the Republic, certain fringes of power allowed it to become a multinational crime company in the service of the French State. Marseille after the war is a field of ruins, a mutilated city with impassable roads, a destroyed train station, and devastated ports. The homeless number in the thousands. There is no more State, no more police, no more order, except one, that of the godfathers of the community. The survivors of the carbon and spirito clan, too involved in the collaboration, are in exile. The Guerini clan, active in the resistance in Marseille, inherited their empire. At the time of liberation, the landscape is a little clear because Carabone and Spirito are no longer in the race. So those who dominate the city are those who contributed to its liberation, notably with Gaston Defferre, the henchmen who took the Provencal with machine guns in their hands, who took the town hall, who installed themselves in power . Francois Mitterrand's future Minister of the Interior was then a young socialist lawyer. Leader of the local Resistance, Gaston Defferre chairs the municipal delegation and supervises the resumption of public services. And in these months of unrest where no one has given up their weapons, we can only count on the mafiosi to maintain order. The Guerinis re-involved themselves in the Marseille town hall and its environment and took a huge part in Marseille public life by guaranteeing the maintenance of order in the city. When the state is weak, mafias or criminal organizations thrive because they are more or less a substitute for the architecture of the state and its structure. In this insurrectional atmosphere, two political forces swear in Marseille to take the place of the iron socialist, the communists and the Gaullists. The first brotherhood confrontation occurred in April 1945 during the municipal elections following the liberation. The communists triumph and their leader, Jean-Christophe Holle, becomes mayor. We want the people of Marseille to know how taxes are used. Terrible defeat for Gaston Defferre, but also a real threat for the mafia. The communists want to clean up the city and rebuild the country for a socialist revolution. Having become the leading political force in France, they entered the government. At the top of the state, tensions are high. The union still prevails, but it will crack. De Gaulle places his men from London in all the machinery of the State, in the police and the special services. Many Gaullists are convinced of the possibility of a third world war. Someone like Malraux is convinced that the Communist Party is preparing a coup that will seize power. Suddenly, the Gaullist-Communist clash will become explosive. The general's men turn to the mafia clans to fight against the communists. In Marseille, a man from the brand new DST is essential. Hello Mr. Commissioner. Commissioner Blemant. Blemant knows everything about the industry and he feels good there. Since the war, he has been very close to two men, Joe Renucci and Marcel Francisci. Renucci, former lieutenant of Carbon and Spirito, joined the Resistance after collaborating. Francisci immediately joined General de Gaulle. The friendship between Francisci, Renucci and Blemant was established in Algiers, behind the scenes of the preparation for the landing. In this fight against the communists, a new actor enters the scene. The American army, which administers Italy, has bases throughout France and is already preparing for the Cold War. The CIA dispatches one of its best agents, Irving Brown. A former union leader who served in the anti-communist struggle, Irving Brown arrives in Marseille. With the support of the French government and Gaston Defferre's socialists, the CIA emissary recruits from the community. The American secret services will have no qualms in their anti-communist fight and they will also recruit Nazis. They will recruit Barbie, for example. They will recruit, former Nazis, but they will recruit mafiosi, quite simply for their effectiveness in fighting against Moscow. Irving Brown sails between France and Italy. In Naples, he found the main CIA source, the boss of the Sicilian-American mafia in the United States, Lucky Luciano, who had facilitated the Allied landings in Sicily during the war. In exchange for his good and loyal services, Luciano was released at the end of the conflict, but sentenced to exile in Italy. From then on, the Godfather helps the CIA and Irving Brown in their fight against the Red Peril and secretly reorganizes its entire structure. In December 1946, Luciano crossed the Atlantic clandestinely. He arrives in Cuba and takes up residence at the National Hotel in Havana. The entire elite of organized crime responded. Since the end of Prohibition, this is the first time that all the big families get together. In the place of Honor, Lucky Luciano is inducted, Capodittutti Capi, in other words, supreme leader of Cosa Nostra. At his side, Meyer Lansky, the boss of the New York Jewish mafia, Luciano's right-hand man and financier of the organization. Meyer Lansky is a visionary. He had a concept for the big bandits, which was to first settle on an island, where border control is simpler. Then, to have the police, to have the customs and from there, obviously install the casinos, the women, the racetracks, the big hotels and therefore earn money everywhere and basically, distribute it to them with only a very small share for the head of state. For their dreams to come true, Lansky and Luciano must put their own man at the helm of the country. They support an ambitious general who will be their servant, General Battista. The Cuban dream of Cosa Nostra is known to the CIA. But at the start of the Cold War, strong and structured mafias are battalions of thugs available to the secret services. Back in Italy, Lucky Lucciano formed close ties with the best of the French collaborators who lived there in exile. Among them, Etienne Leandri, the All-Paris gigolo of the 1930s who paraded in the uniform of a Gestapo officer during the occupation, is now based in Milan. Sentenced by human account to 20 years of forced labor for intelligence with the enemy, Etienne Leandri is on the run. He can no longer return to France. Lucky Luciano will explain to Etienne the new approach to the world for the next 50 years. It is a discovery, that is to say that from now on, the services, the police, the authorities must become allies. The opportunist that he is realizes that by very clearly displaying anti-communism and the desire to act in this direction, he will obtain the favor of the CIA. Lucky Luciano will make Etienne Leandri his ambassador to discuss with the CIA in the United States. In the CIA's vision, Moscow is basically at the gates of Paris and the gates of Marseille. And in this context, Etienne Leandri will be an important character. He knows the mafia heads all around the Mediterranean basin. Etienne Leandri, Joe Renucci, Marcel Francisci and the Guerini brothers, each installed in a system of political dependence, became important cogs in the Cold War in the Mediterranean. In France, the Cold War broke out in Marseille during the municipal elections of October 1947. De Gaulle, who had left the government and created his own party, came to the city to support his candidate for mayor. The RPF appears in the spring of 47 and very quickly, it will acquire a security service which appears in the fall and winter, which is extremely powerful. 10 to 15,000 men. It's considerable, it's considerable. It's almost a small private army. So, systematically, the meetings will get out of hand. You have clashes between dozens of people with broken bottles, clubs, batons, sinews of oxen. In places, weapons of war resurface, it being understood that the communists and the Gaullists were the main actors of the resistance. The weapons are still there. In places we will see offices exploded under the effect of grenades, gusts or machine guns. It is extremely violent. After weeks of street fighting, the results are astounding. The communists are beaten. The Gaullist candidate wins the town hall thanks to a secret vote by the Socialists. But the communists do not admit defeat. The increase in tram fares is the pretext for triggering insurrectional strikes. In the Municipal Council, communists and Gaullists come to blows. In the streets, the demonstrations turned into riots. On November 12, 1947, in the evening, the crowd rushed to the Opera district, held by the Underworld, and ransacked all the bars. Several explosions are heard. The crowd disperses. In the middle of the leaflets and scattered paving stones , a young activist is on the ground, livid. Vincent Voulant is dead. Bartelemy Guerini told this story to his daughter, Marie-Christine. They broke everything. They broke the pottery, they broke the blue parrot. They have... The communists are the communists. At that time, my father was accused of having killed a young communist named Vincent Voulant. For three days, the guerini will disappear, an arrest warrant is issued and everything. And then, suddenly, on the fourth day, the guerini will reappear and the main witness was confused. But he had been deceived. And in fact, it was not the Guerini who had fired. Who had seen him shot and he took them. It was someone else he took for the Guerini. And it is Judge Sacotte who receives him and releases him. Within two or three hours, I believe, he was released. But it made the newspapers for a long time. The communists use the event to destabilize Deferre. In the Chamber of Deputies, they accuse him of perverting Marseille by protecting the Guerini clan. Deferre is so brazen that he stands up against them. He said, "I don't know the Guerinis. The Guerinis are not my friends and if I ever met them in the street, I would not be able to recognize them. >> He repeats this several times in the National Assembly. Obviously, this is a huge lie. And there, we clearly see the limit for these politicians, that is to say that we need these men for certain tasks, but they must remain on the margins. We don't know them. So that means that we will be able to be useful to them at certain times. Obviously, it is an exchange of good practices. We're going to close our eyes, we're not going to want to see what's happening. But their things should not be too flashy. If it happens in court, it happens in court. And there, politics no longer knows. Gaston Defferre's compromises carry no weight in the face of the red threat. The fight continues at the port where the first goods from the Marshall Plan should soon arrive. Marseille is the gateway to this plan for Southern Europe. Dock workers blocking the entry of American goods must end their strikes, no matter the cost. And on the docks and deserts, the weapons crates will not move. The CIA then gives carte blanche to its agent Irving Brown. The CIA divided the CGT and formed socialist groups to create a new workers' union, dissidents of the CGT. And then, they will help finance everything they can, and in particular the big guns, the big guns of the Corsican thugocracy in Marseille, who will be extremely established in the city and who can take the shot in particular against the CGT. At the port, Irving Brown called on Brother Guerini to coordinate the Corsican clans with the police forces. The mafiosi have every interest in breaking the strikes that block their traffic. Advised by Etienne Leandri, Lucky Luciano sends Silcilian dockers. Renucci and Francisci, who joined the Gaullist security service, are also on the front line in the clashes, with the unconditional support of the Minister of the Interior, the DST and Commissioner Blemant's men. The CIA provided money and weapons to Corsican mafiosi. The Corsican mafios and the CRS beat the strikers and effectively broke the strikes in Marseille. In less than a month, the CGT retreated. The combined efforts of the French government, the CIA, the city's anti-communist forces and Corsican mafiosi broke up the movement. This dark alliance, supposed to guarantee the security of the State, allows Marseille to once again become a blessed zone of the Underworld. The CIA moves on and doesn't think about it anymore, doesn't look back. But local political forces find themselves in a new configuration. This is what will allow Corsican mafiosi to continue their trafficking in Marseille with virtual impunity for more than 20 years. The links created between Lucky Luciano and the Corsicans open up colossal prospects for international trafficking. In the shadow of the CIA and the French secret services, Joe Renucci settles in Morocco, a French protectorate, in Tangier more precisely, where he becomes a first-rate agent for the SDECE, the French spy service. Tangier is a free port which escapes any administrative control. Tangier is above all the obligatory stopover for everything passing between the Mediterranean and the Atlantic Ocean. This is where the Corsican mafiosi want to adapt the Cuban dream of Lucky Luciano and Meijer Lansky. All the cream, the aristocracy of the middle passes there or settles there. So indeed, in those who appear in Tangier, on the spot, as being two of the people of unity who hold the port well, who hold the Mediterranean network well, which are well in place to bring goods to the city which will then have to be transported to the European continent, indeed, there are two names that arise there, it is Renucci and Francisci. Originally from the same Corsican village, Renucci and Francisci developed the most lucrative traffic of the post-war period. A traffic that allows real fortunes to be made from the smuggling of American cigarettes. We are no longer on the thing that is going to carry out its little heist. We are facing international groups. Renucci, his opposite number at the time, was Lucky Luciano. Appears the first go fast. These ultra-fast speedboats which cross the seas, thwarting the efforts of the police. This traffic requires perfect coordination between Joe Renucci and Marcel Francisci in Tangiers, Antoine and Bartelemy Guerini in Marseille, Lucky Luciano and Etienne Leandri in Italy. We are in associations and there are specialties, people who know how to get from point A to point B, who give the relay to others, who get to point C, because there is a necessity of this collaboration. It is an organizing crime, ultimately, which structures itself, because it needs to structure itself to be effective. And basically, it's a dress rehearsal for what will happen next in the drug trafficking of illicit substances. But the fortunes generated by trafficking in blondes fuel greed. A delivery made by Combinati attracts the attention of the police. Instructions are given by the healers to keep a low profile and above all not to sell the goods until things settle down. But a member of the team wants to overtake them and transgresses the instructions. A bloody vendetta followed which lasted 20 years and left nearly 30 dead. Far from local vendettas, connections between large mafia organizations are consolidating. In the early 1950s, Meyer Lansky, the financier of Cosa Nostra, began a tour of Europe. It is very interesting to note that this man, who knows perfectly the American and European criminal reality, he will go to several countries, notably Switzerland, obviously because of tax havens, but above all, he will go to France, to Paris and Marseille, because he wants to make contact and build close links with the Corsicans, the Corso-Marseillais. In Paris, because they have gaming circles which are very influential and which serve their interests very well and in Marseille, because he understood that at the time, it was the trafficking networks of illegal substances from Corso-Marseille are at the time among the most sophisticated, the most powerful in the world. A few months after Meyer Lansky's trip , the dictator Battista took power in Cuba. As expected, the Cuban dream comes true. The island becomes a mafia paradise. Some Corsicans in exile arrive in Havana. Cosa Nostra offers them a deal. Departure from their real estate, authorizations for games and women's work in exchange for their heroine, the Marseille girl. The change in perspective is heroin, because heroin is starting to establish itself in these networks other cigarette traffickers. Very quickly, these people realize that it is much more interesting than trafficking in cigarettes which brings in 1 to 3, 1 to 4, 1 to 5, 1 to 10 maximum, trafficking in heroines, because heroin is from 1 to 5 years, from 1 to 100. So there begins the French connection. And in the French connection, it is not the Corsicans who have knowledge of the heroine's transformation. Heroin is a German invention created to ease the suffering of soldiers wounded in battle. As luck would have it, certain German chemical engineers compromised in the war took refuge in France and started a new life in France. And it is from these German chemists, some establishing themselves in the South-East of France, that we learn in these chaotic crime circles how to transform morphine base into heroin. Dominique Albertini and his half-brother Joe Cesari quickly mastered this laboratory secret which he pushed to perfection. A genius chemist and considered a demigod, Cesari succeeded in synthesizing a 98% pure heroin. At the time, the Sicilian mafiosi, for example, absolutely do not know how to do this kind of thing. When a man as important, for example, as Luciano goes to call on the Corsicans, but that's what is very surprising, he confides, he calls on the Corsicans with a certain reluctance because he is afraid of power, precisely, of these Corsican organizations. So, this allows us to clearly understand the extent to which, from a historical point of view, we very often and for a long time underestimated the importance and power of these Corsican criminal networks at the time. My uncle called my father and said, "Marie-Christine, she has to come to the house. >> And I was introduced to Lucky Luciano. That was the first time. Afterwards, I saw her again often. So, there was, between my father and Lucky Luciano, an extraordinary friendship as a man wanting to evacuate all this darkness from society. And one day he said to him, "You see, like all of Marseille belongs to you, all of Sicily and New York belong to me. >> And at the time, he was therefore protected by the New York mafia. It's not just the Guerini, but the Guerini dominate the scene. It is they who are considered, including in official reports, as the main figures in the sector, the true godfathers of Marseille. And they will get involved in this traffic, although they will deny it, they will get involved in this traffic from the beginning of the 1950s. That is to say, from the moment there has a deal with the Sicilian-American mafia to deliver heroin to the United States, the Corsican Underworld, the Corsican Godfathers and particularly the Guerini will do everything to organize and expand this extremely lucrative business which will make they will pick up the goods in the Middle East, transport them and transform them in their clandestine laboratories in the Marseille region and ship them to the United States, to North America through a whole bunch of routes and canals. . The rise of this business would never have been possible without the help of part of the French state. In 1950, the Indochina War raged. It costs France very dearly and leads the military and special services to mount ultra-secret operations. One of the most difficult ones is called Operation X. Operation X is simple. To prevent Ho Chi Minh's men, who control the north of the country, from sweeping towards the South, the French army made a pact with the Mong, an ethnic group who lives on the culture of Pavo. In exchange for purchasing all of their crops, the French guaranteed the support of Mong families and thus blocked communist progress. Three regions with significant warlike forces were also places of opium production. There, the French helped local tribes harvest poppies. Unrecorded French Air Force flights collected the opium and then flew to Vung Tau, also called Cap Saint-Jacques, where there was a refinery. The opium was then delivered to a Sino-Vietnamese mafia under the direction of the second office in Indochina. Part of this opium is sold to the Corsicans in Saigon, from the diaspora established there since the 19th century. They send the morphine base to Marseille, transform it into heroin and ship it to the United States. The profits collected by the SDEC and the French army allow them to buy a counter-revolutionary army in the north of the country. When you try to redraw political zones , change the direction of a local society or a nation, when you infiltrate and assassinate, when you conduct covert operations , often your best allies are those at the center. of this world, in the heart of this hell. This is why, on many occasions, during the second half of the 20th century, the services formed an alliance with the pegue. Are these alliances necessary? It's an abstraction. Did they play a significant role in the conduct of these special operations? Yes, of course. When the French bought the poppy directly from the Hmong, the tribe was loyal to them. But when the French used intermediaries, the Hmong who were robbed joined enemy lines. This is what is happening in Dien Bien Phu. Ho Chi Minh's men allied themselves with the Hmong, hostile to the French, and launched a decisive attack on the French army's largest airborne base in North Vietnam. Dien Bien Phu falls after two months of siege. In early May 1954, France lost its first colonial war and signed a treaty that cut Vietnam in two. From now on, the North is communist, the South is nationalist, the land is handed over to the Americans. Deprived of this source of supply, Corsican mafios deploy their networks in Turkey, Iran and Lebanon with local mafias. Laboratories are running at full capacity in the suburbs of Marseille. At the town hall, Gaston Defferre has taken up residence. The former resistance fighter, who has already held several ministries, is a major figure of the Fourth Republic. From 1953, Gaston Defferre became the mayor of Marseille and a long reign as mayor of Marseille followed where he was always careful not to appear as being indebted to the pegue for his elections, his power, his influence, but where obviously, no one can deny and everyone in town knows that Gaston Defferre has friends who are Corsicans, has friends who are in the pegue and in his bodyguards, in his former lieutenants of the Resistance include Guerini who, as we know, made the coup de main and are doing the coup de main during his coastal campaigns. Me, when I saw Gaston Defferre either at home or when my father went to see him near the Saint-Victor church, he had an apartment, it was terrible, terrible. "Yes, we gave you this, you didn't give us that back. >> So then, who do you think you are? But now, what do you want us to do? >> He finally felt, the Guerini brothers, therefore my parents, the family felt that... This is life. That little by little, Gaston, he took his back and one day let go of them. To say "One day, no, no one had ever done me a favor. >> This is in the logic of things. After the loss of Indochina, Paris clung to its colonial empire in the Maghreb and called on certain Corsican mafiosi established there. In Tangier, Joe Renucci and Marcel Francis participate in counterterrorism operations. Wasted effort, in 1956, Morocco gained independence. Tangier loses its free port status. Joe Renucci sees his empire collapse. He died shortly after of a devastating cancer. In Cuba, Castro's takeover marks the end of mafia appropriation of the island. Castro confiscates all their property, but puts an end to trafficking and money laundering. Looking for new territories, Marcel Francisci has his empire in Lebanon, in games and in banks. In Beirut, he still mixes with the SDEC. In France, Francisci made a new friend in Gaullist circles, a young representative of the Ricard house who would experience a meteoric rise, a certain Charles Pasqua. It is there, in the Gaullist nebula, that Charles Pasqua and Marcel Francisci meet Etienne Leandri. Etienne Leandri's career from the mid-1950s is quite extraordinary. Here is a man who is sentenced by custom to 20 years in prison, a national indignity for intelligence with the enemy. And thanks to the action of the CIA, he will find himself completely exonerated. Not only cleared, but very quickly, it is someone who will be installed and/or quite simply in the Gaullist system. In 1958, General de Gaulle regained power with the help of army paratroopers, deeply attached to French Algeria. I waited for de Gaulle. And it was in a real delirium that the head of government walked the streets of the city. I got you. This is Operation Resurrection and the birth of the Fifth Republic. But very quickly, de Gaulle decided to let go of Algeria. He finds himself facing a factious army, a terrorist organization infiltrated at the highest level of the State, the OAS, the largest terrorist enterprise ever known in France. The OAS attempts to physically liquidate the general. General de Gaulle once again served as a target for his determined adversaries. During the night, immediately after the attack on the little clamard, our reporters followed the first steps of the investigation. De Gaulle must secure the regime. He relies on Jacques Focard, his gray eminence who has full powers. Jacques Focard is an essential character who is at the same time Mr. Africa, Mr. Secret Service and Mr. Clandestine. Focard is going to be the man of all the tricks, of all the dirty tricks. Focard reactivates the hard core of the Gaullists from the beginning, mobilized within the sack, the civic action service, a parallel police force which is installed at the heart of the institutions of the Fifth Republic. The SAC, there were politicians. We see Commiti, we see Sanguinetti and we see "Sanguinetti" and we see "Bozzi". But that's the presentable side. And then, there is a side which is still less presentable, it is above all Marcel Francisci, great Corsican mafioso or corso Marseille. And then, we will also find Leandri. At the time of the Algerian War, if 80% of the French secret services were considered favorable to the theories of the OAS, how did the OAS fight? Only with people who are more in ideological sympathy, at least with these same actors. It was necessary to find what General de Gaulle called invisible elements, that is to say elements external to traditional services to carry out a certain number of actions which are not very advisable actions. And so, we are not going to ask a university professor to go and plant a bomb or go and slit someone's throat. So obviously, where we call on professionals and these crime professionals, we find them essentially precisely in these large criminal organizations who are immediately very happy that we can call on them, because they know that then they will obtain a return on investment in terms of pressure tactics. And then sometimes, moreover, in terms of influence within the services themselves. So, the SAC, which is the Gaullist militia, will recruit henchmen in the environment and particularly in Corsican environments, in the environment of the Underworld, we will recruit people who will carry out the shooting against the OAS to obviously survive the Algerian crisis, survive threats from the OAS, survive threats of internal destabilization. At that time we will see people from the SAC arriving, Place Beauvau, in the courtyard of the Ministry of the Interior, in fatigues, with helmets. Some are armed and they put themselves into service like that, spontaneously, from the inside. We will also see people from the SAC who, in the provinces, will visit the prefect in a very physical manner to ensure his legalism. Among those fighting the OAS was Charles Pasqua. He heads the SAC in Marseille. He is a remarkable organizer, a very charismatic leader of men, very appreciated by the activist base. It covers three departments, Alpes-Maritimes, Var and Bouches du Rhone. Gaston Defferre, the mayor of the city, also fights the factious organization and strongly condemns the terrorists. He will call in the middle of a socialist congress to kill them all, literally, and to get rid of them. His Parisian apartment on Avenue du President Wilson was bombed at that time. And witnesses, people close to Deferre at the time, told me that he went back to see these people he knew very well and told them "Okay, there you go, I've been plasticized", you answer. And you respond every time they do something to me. There's no way I'm going to let this happen. >>At that time of the AOS, we left every eight days, we had to pack our suitcase. But you know, today you're going to go to the countryside with Carmen for a few days because the house exploded. If the Guerini brothers still support Defer, they are starting to play on both sides of the political spectrum and are moving closer to the Gaullists. Antoine and Barthelemy appreciate the protections offered by the secret services under the control of Jacques Focard. The distances taken by De Gaulle with the United States and NATO broadened their horizons. Paris collaborates at least with Washington in the fight against the Corsican mafia. For a decade, American narcotics have accumulated a considerable amount of information on the French Connection networks. They know the role that Antoine and Barthelemy Guerini play in the organization. They track Etienne Leandri in his travels in the Middle East, as well as in Africa. They highlight the return to France of Francois Spirito, the former godfather of Marseille with Carbone, now converted to war. They go up the French networks, from Beirut to San Francisco, from Istanbul to Montreal, from Teheran to Buenos Aires, routes which all pass through Marseille. The United States realized that the first obstacle in its war against the illicit substance was all of these connections that had developed. Corsican mafiosi like Marcel Francisci were in contact with the Gaullist government. Others, like the Guerini brothers, were connected to the Socialist Party. And all were linked to parallel police forces , notably the SAC, the civic action service. Many Corsican people belonging to these mafia groups were linked to this organization. They had their entrances there and they also had political protections. American narcotics are powerless. Each request for investigation, each international regulatory commission is neglected by France and the file thickens between Paris and Washington. At that time, according to some repentants, the Corso-Marseille mafia promised Cosa Nostra to introduce 20 tons of heroin per year into the United States , resold at $8,000 per kilo. Heroin would generate an annual turnover of around 160 million dollars at the time, or nearly 1.5 billion euros. at the time, or nearly 1.5 billion euros. Enough to maintain numerous villages in Corsica, to invest massively Enough to maintain numerous villages in Corsica, to invest massively in Parisian real estate, tourism, big business and to help the SDEC to finance its secret operations, in Africa and the Middle East. This is the golden age of the French connection. The mafiosi have mountains of money to launder and for that, nothing better than gaming circles. Unlike a casino where there is a bank, a gaming circle does not have a bank. So, it is the players themselves who provide the compensation. These play circles are real dressed laundry machines. You only need to see with what determination the different rival gangs try to gain control to know first of all that it is very lucrative and that it is a good way to launder money. The gaming circle is every mafioso's dream, yes. It's a great deal and it's a publicity thing. In these gaming circles, there are also the secret services who watch a little bit what is happening , because these are places where a lot of people pass, travelers, businessmen, spies, etc. So there you have it, we tolerate these places where a lot of money is made. And for that, we need friends of power who hold them. The friends of power are the Corsican godfathers. At the Ministry of the Interior, there are Corsicans, there is Sanguinetti, there is Bozzi. There are people very close to the figures of the Corsican Underworld. And Marcel Francisci is rather well placed to obtain the authorizations he wishes, in particular to hold the Osmane circle which he will own. The Guerinis could not miss the Parisian circles either. They have two allies in the place, Jean-Baptiste Andreani, an old acquaintance from the days of trafficking in Indochina, and Robert Blemant, the former commissioner of the DST, gone to the other side of legality, but still a traitor. union between police and community. These three partners, Blemant, Guerini, Andriani will quickly argue because Le Grand Cercle, which is the name of the games circle that they will have in Paris, becomes an exceptionally profitable business. Obviously, as soon as there is a lot of money at stake, appetites become more acute. You know, the number of Parisian circles is extremely small. So, there is not room for everyone in this market. The war of the Games rages in the heart of Paris. Andreani is seriously injured by buckshot. The facade of the Grand Cercle was machine-gunned, the cash register was robbed and the tables were set on fire. The Guerinis will consider that Blemant, who was their associate, probably extremely ambitious, is too greedy. Blemant, by wanting to take total control of practically all the gambling circles in Paris, disturbed Andreani and Francisci. And then, he had a fault, he was not Corsican. Even within the Guerini clan, there is a rupture. For Barthelemy, the crisis is too serious, it threatens the entire structure. It is imperative to calm things down. His brother Antoine, on the contrary, thinks that Blemant must be liquidated before the authority of the clan collapses. So, that means that there is a kind of consultation. A consultation, again, is when all the members of a family come together to decide on an important thing. That was clearly to decide on the elimination of this ex-commissioner. And my father took me and said to Antoine, "Do you really want our children to inherit this catastrophe that you are plotting?" >> Of everything that will result from it. Barthelemy Guerini did not want Blemant to be killed. Because he knew the power of Blemant, of Blemant's connections. And he said, "It's going to bring misfortune to the family." They had a kind of cup with balls, exactly like we see in The Godfather, white balls and black balls. White is no and black is yes. This is the decision of death. Robert Blemant was shot dead in May 1965 and everything Barthelemy feared came true. and everything that Barthelemy feared comes true. Blemant's allies take revenge. Blemant's allies take revenge. Kidnapping of lieutenants, torture to break Omerta, betrayal, vendettas. Kidnapping of lieutenants, torture to break Omerta, betrayal, vendettas. The corpses pile up, The corpses pile up, until Blemant's friends go back to the top. until Blemant's friends went back to the top. On Friday June 23, 1967 at 4:10 p.m., Antoine Guerini was shot dead at point blank range with 11 11.43 bullets. Antoine Guerini is shot dead at point blank range with 11 bullets of 11.43. It is the death of a sacred monster of the environment. During his funeral , two young thugs rob the villa of the missing godfather. A few days later, one of the two young thieves, Claude Mondroyan, was found dead at the foot of Cap Canaille. Bartelemy is accused of the murder. Tried, he was sentenced to 20 years of criminal imprisonment. He would be released 11 years later to die of triple cancer. The end of the Guerini clan marks the end of an era, that of a traditional Corso-Marseille mafia, that of before modernity, of unbridled liberalism and the deregulation of financial flows. The one into which Etienne Leandri and Marcel Francisci enter head on. Francisci and Leandri extend their hold at the heart of power, access the business quota and establish what could be called Corsica Africa. The Cuban dream now passes through Gabon, Cameroon and Congo. What will happen with large companies, and in particular large state-owned companies, is that they will have to go to work, for example to look for oil in countries where the system is totally corrupt. How do you expect a Parisian white-collar engineer to know how to do it? To put oil in the business wheels that are locked. Etienne Leandri is a solution to this type of problem and he will take money in the middle, that's all. At the crossroads of major contracts and the foundations of power, Etienne Leandri also deploys his talents in real estate speculation in the Paris suburbs. He is gradually establishing himself as an obligatory intermediary. All he needs is a political alter ego. May 1968. The crisis is radicalizing and threatens the Republic. The bag and its big arms find themselves on the front line alongside the police facing the demonstrators. And in its ranks, Charles Pasqua stands out. On May 30, 1968, Pasqua favored a hard line against Chianlie. He would like to throw his activists on the barricades to reinforce the police. And we see it on May 30, 68, he will play a very important role by mobilizing 1700 strong arms and they will support this giant counter-demonstration on the Champs-Elysees. We have Pasqua who also gives orders through Toki Woki to a small courier station located at Place de la Concorde. He is Charles Pasqua's guardian of glory, in the sack. As he had rendered many services, he was offered an investiture at the time of the legislative elections in June 68. During the campaign, activists from the Marseille sack arrived. These are people from the Marseille community who arrive packed with revolvers and they are going to shoot communist activists. There will be two serious injuries. For us, Gaullism is not only the independence of France, the institutions, but it is also rigor, morality, honesty and in a word, public service. Charles Pasqua was elected in July 1968, deputy for Hauts de Seine. And in his wake, we obviously find Etienne Leandri, who will settle completely at the heart of power, since he will become its main financier, its advisor, its man, its emissary in numerous affairs. We will also see Jean-Charles Marchiani and we will see many other people who will constitute over the years an increasingly powerful nebula, the Pasqua nebula Since the Second World War, the Corsican mafia has benefited, in exchange for its services, from the extreme benevolence of part of the political power. It was at the start of the Cold War, during the throes of decolonization, in the era of triumphant Gaullism and a certain vision of the superior interests of the nation. In June 1969, Georges Pompidou was elected President of the Republic. However , certain Gaullist pharmacies did everything to prevent this from happening. Believing that it was up to them to choose the general's successor, part of the hard right tried to politically kill Pompidou, considered too centrist. And to put him out of the game, some people hatched an unthinkable plot. A news item disguised as a political scandal. The Markovitch affair. On October 1, 1968, a ragpicker discovered the body of an unknown person wrapped in a nylon cover and a burlap bag. This corpse is that of Stefan Markovitch, a young Yugoslav gigolo, bodyguard of Alain Delon. The man was allegedly shot because he had pornographic photos of high-ranking personalities, including Georges Pompidou's wife. The real deal for Pompidou is the photos of his wife, the fake porn photos. That's the real story. The police quickly discovered a letter signed by Stefan Markovic. Whatever happens, and to explain the trouble that could be caused to me, contact Alain, Nathalie Delon and their Corsican friend, Francois Marcantoni. The name of Marcantoni will arise, big thug, cousin of Marchiani. The name Marchiani has been mentioned, but as we know, Marcani is close to Pasqua. And so, for some, starting with Pompidou, the SAC would be directly or indirectly involved in this extremely dark affair. Once in power, Pompidou attacked the pharmacy he suspected of being responsible for the affair. Pompidou is outright calling for the dissolution of the bag. Foucault negotiates and obtains his continuation in exchange for severe purges. And Pasqua will be one of those left out. Foucault threatens Pasqua if he refuses to leave, to reveal things in Marseille's bag. Pasqua understands that the game is lost and he leaves. And I remember, in one of the interviews I had with Jacques Foucard, that he told me that the only person he had a physical fear of was Charles Pasqua. Pompidou continues its fight against the all-powerful Gaullist networks. To weaken them, he appointed his men to head the SDEC and the Ministry of the Interior. This takeover breaks some of the bridges between the political world and the Corsican secret services and mafia, in France, but also abroad. Paris moves closer to Washington and Pompidou works hand in hand with the new American president Richard Nixon. Public enemy number 1 of the United States is illicit substances. The Nixon administration put pressure on the French government. They broke the links between the SDEC and the traffickers, then between the traffickers and the Gaullist Party, to cut these networks off from all these political links. And in this context, there is a terrible affair which is making headlines in this newspaper, which is what we call the Delouette affair. In April 1971, Frenchman Roger Delouette was arrested in the United States while delivering 44 kilos of heroin. Indicted, Delouette claims that he works for the SDEC. And the first thing he will do to seek help, he will write to his friend Jean-Charles Marchiani. Marchiani, close to Pasqua, was dumped from the SDEC during the big clean-up ordered by Pompidou. A family will also arise, the cousin of Jean-Charles Marchiani, who is Dominique Mariani. Mariani is the lieutenant of one of the French Connection's branches in Latin America. It turns out that the SDEC is not involved. The only certainty is that once again, the barons of the French Connection are a handshake away from the men of the French services and this time, two handshakes away from Charles Pasqua. The Franco-American struggle intensifies. This is the end of the French Connection. Its networks and laboratories are dismantled, the traffickers incarcerated. Arrested, the great Joe Cesari hangs himself in his cell. Navigator then bartender on the maritime lines of the Middle East for years before becoming the best heroin chemist known to the history of the illicit substance. The all-powerful Corsican mafia, which supplied most of the heroin consumption in the United States, is collapsing. But the traffic will continue, taken over by the Sicilian-American mafia. The godfathers close to power are caught in the turmoil. Elected official from the Zicavo region, Marcel Francisci finds himself on the front page of an American newspaper with a new title, Mister Heroine, an embarrassing advertisement for an elected official of the Republic. In M comme milieu, his book published in 1977, the journalist James Sarrazin names the actors of the political-mafia nebula. Marcel Francisci was not in the habit of doing trials. I think maybe his playful side I suppose, he didn't like losing. He wasn't used to going to court. He had other methods of making it known that he was not happy with what was written on his account. These were more direct methods. But I'm not the only one to say it. He did this with other journalists whom he summoned for writings that displeased him. But he was very little interested in legal recourse. He settled things from man to man, like a great lord. We all had awareness of the risk that existed in the publishing house, we knew it, but everyone assumed it. It's true that we rarely receive threats by telephone, but I have also received threatening letters , sometimes implied in conversations like that. We end up by chance with people we don't know. There are telephone threats, announcements that someone is going to settle my score, &quot;we're calling you at three in the morning to tell you that your eldest son is at Chateau-Tierry high school, he has a blue bicycle, he starts on Monday at 9:00 a.m. and at 9:30 a.m., 9:30 a.m., he leaves at 4:30 p.m., Tuesday whatever, etc. There, you start to age a lot in those moments. I was careful not to talk to politicians about it and I was careful not to talk to the police about it because I wasn't sure that they weren't even the ones behind it. You see what I mean ? So there, you have no one on whom you... You cannot trust the State which is supposed to protect you even a minimum when you are not too dishonest. And there, not at all. Honestly, I wonder if I would do it again today. Yes, clearly, I wonder. I even think I have the answer. No. One of the strengths of the mafia lies in its elusiveness. Not identifying allows for concealment. Ironically, the State which should fight it contributes to minimizing its existence and therefore the threat. What characterizes mafia systems with or without a mafia is precisely that these criminal systems never want to appear. It is the antithesis of terrorism. Terrorism seeks to be visible. Mafia logic always seeks to appear invisible. In the intertwining of these troubled relationships, Etienne Leandri remained in total obscurity. His role was only revealed after his death. When I carry small plates of sausage, coffee and aperitifs to the people around the table because that I have 19 freelancers and they ask me to stay there because there is no longer his secretary, we have industry bosses around the table , we have police bosses around the table , bandits, high-level political advisors at the Elysee. Everyone is there and having an aperitif, and then it's like that every day. So it's a character who has an extraordinary breadth and at the same time who succeeds in this performance by doing all that, not appearing to the public. There is one thing that fascinated me about Etienne, it is the softness of his gaze and the transformation, it gives me immediate and terrifying chills. I think he was very, very scary. This type of man does not need to show others that he is powerful, because he is. People were stuck. You shouldn't put your finger in a Leandri grenadier. He sees politicians eating out of his hand. I saw people lying on the ground. Boss of one of the largest French banks. Suppliants. Today, we cannot imagine a man as important when he is not in the spotlight. And the logics of corruption, the logics which, little by little, destroy, but on a daily basis and in a very fragmentary way, the democratic system, these are logics which cannot be seen. One day, we wake up, we are no longer in a truly democratic system, but we didn't realize it. And this is how these mafia logics take root in a territory. If we do not react more quickly to the dangers posed to the Republic and in general to the States, this mafia activity given its firepower, I think that things could go very badly for our democracies in the near future. of time. The compromise of certain sections of the Republic with certain fringes of the Corsican mafia is now solemnly anchored at the heart of power, at the sacrifice of the general interest and the common good. With the advent of neoliberalism , the deregulation of financial markets, the proliferation of tax havens and the rise of black boxes in international finance, the dangerous alliance between certain elements of power and the Corsican mafia will change dimension. The rest of this story will be written in Paris, in Africa, and what is new, in Corsica. Until then, Corsica was protected from the actions of organized crime by its nationals. The Corsican mafia will take advantage of the violent reactions against central power and the creation of the FLNC to establish itself on the island, establish ambiguous relations with the separatists and constitute an important parallel power while developing its African activities. The Cuban dream is not dead. Death of the great sponsors, dismantling of the French Connection, break with Cosa Nostra. In the 1970s, the Corsican mafia was down on its knees. Once again, the French State will enable it to recover by offering it a place of choice on the sidelines of major State contracts, large companies and the business world. A third generation takes power. The Cuban dream is within reach. The contamination by the mafia of entire sections of the French Republic is accelerating. After the loss of the colonies, General de Gaulle established himself as the guarantor of national independence. It provides the Fifth Republic with all the necessary instruments: nuclear weapons, world diplomacy, strong currency. One of its priorities is to ensure France's energy independence. Nothing should prevent the supply of oil and uranium. De Gaulle entrusted this mission to a company created for the occasion, ELF. Thought of as a pure tool of postcolonial domination established in Africa, ELF is supervised by the man of France Africa at the Elysee, Jacques Focard. Jacques Focard really was a whole region of the French precariousness of the 14 former French colonies. Really, it was a region totally under control, with an integrated political, military, financial system, and what was called the network of networks. There were state networks and private networks. And it's true that it all went back to Jacques Focard. Jacques Focard places his agents in the ELF system at the time when a man joins the company, Andre Tarallo. Born in Haute-Corse at the end of the 1920s , Andre Tarallo comes from a modest family. A brilliant student, he studied in Paris, entered Sciences Po, then the ENA, the same year as Jacques Chirac, whose friend he became. Like other young guns of the Gaullist system, Andre Tarallo began his career in a ministerial office, then joined ELF, where he became Mr. Africa. Andre Tarallo has a special touch. That is to say, he is the one who developed the relational system. And he is the trusted man of ELF, certainly, but he is also the trusted man of the heads of state. In 1969, ELF discovered an offshore deposit in Congo-Brazzaville, the Emmeraud deposit near Pointe-Noire. Pointe-Noire is the second city in the country. Here, everyone knows each other. The Corsican diaspora is comfortably installed there. One evening, at the bar of one of the small hotels in the Port, Andre Tarallo spots two ambitious young Corsicans, the Feliciaggi brothers. After the discovery of oil in Congo, Pointe Noire became, basically, one of the oil centers of Elf. And there, we simply had to do construction, make infrastructure, make improvements, make people eat, etc. And so Tarallo simply used Corsicans who were established, the Feliciaggi brothers. Charles and Robert Feliciaggi, it's true that they were almost "Congolese" children in the sense that they had been around for a very long time. The dad worked at the post office, the mom was a director, was a teacher and it's true that they were at school with Congolese people. Among the schoolchildren is Denis Sassou-Nguesso, who in his adolescence forged almost family ties with the Feliciaggi. Having become a young officer, Sassou-Nguesso was a key element of the Marxist party, then in power in Congo-Brazzaville. Elf multiplies oil discoveries, particularly in Gabon, where Omar Bongo is a great friend of France. Andre Tarallo introduces the Feliciaggi brothers into the ELF system. The two brothers became regulars in the Gabonese presidency. People like Feliciaggi, Tarallo, they also knew how to manage African presidential families and that was their strength. They managed at the same time vis-a-vis Paris, they had an extremely important political weight of influence in Africa and they also knew how to manage at the level of Africans all the domestic affairs of their heads of state with sums of money absolutely exceptional and absolutely incredible. In Paris, Jacques Focard allowed his relationships to continue under the two presidents of the French Republic, Georges Pompidou, then Valerie Giscard d'Estaing. To secure its interests, France does everything to have trusted men at the head of its former colonies. In 1979, Sassou-Nguesso carried out a coup d'etat which kept him at the head of Congo for more than 20 years. Through the Feliciaggi brothers, Andre Tarallo established close ties with the new dictator. Elf is now on conquered ground, as expected. Thanks to the resources of the ELF group, Andre Tarallo has the necessary funds to further anchor Omar Bongo and Denis Sassou-Nguesso to the destiny of France. Andre Tarallo founded an investment bank, FIBA, of which the two African heads of state are the main shareholders with ELF. Everyone's assets, commissions and retro commissions between France and Africa, everything now goes through FIBA. There were very few staff. It was the director of the bank who himself managed the entire customer system in a completely locked IT manner and with total control of a very small group of people, a certain number of networks. It's true that in these networks, it's true that the Corsicans were extremely present. And they continued roughly what we call France Africa. They were key people in France Africa and therefore in the economy and therefore in the money produced by French people returning to France. In these networks, around Jacques Focard and Andre Tarallo, we find Jacques Chirac, Charles Pasqua, his strong man in the Gaullist Party, and more discreetly, Etienne Leandri, who without being part of the official hierarchy of ELF, is an important man . Etienne Leandri is the prototype of the gifted intermediary. He is close to everyone, to Charles Pasqua, but to everyone, because his characteristic is to be close. He is a bit in the French connection and after that, he no longer needs anyone. He established relationships with the Vatican world in large Italian companies and he is a man who has completely changed his stature. He is completely discreet, that is to say that nothing comes out of what we say to him and he will know how to keep the secrets which allow these emoluments to be justified. He arrived at a time that he understood immediately when what we call compensation in business became the key element of the mafia. Like Etienne Leandri, Robert Feliciaggi is at the crossroads of several worlds. An essential element of the ELF system in Africa, Robert Feliciaggi stands out as an intermediary in major public works. And participates in the financial arrangement of a highway in Congo. At the same time, he obtained authorization from Denis Sassou-Nguesso, then from Omar Bongo, to open the first gaming rooms in Africa under the Fortune's Club brand. Alone, without his brother, Robert, the African Corso, launches into one of the mafia's privileged areas, the world of games. As it is a sector which is very lucrative. Because with games, gaming rooms, betting, poker, we earn a lot of money. And since it handles a lot of cash, it's a means of laundering, of laundering possibly illegal money which is colossal. So it has a double advantage for people who are interested in criminal activities like Corsican godfathers. Robert Feliciaggi then makes a decision that will change the history of the Corsican mafia. He wants to place his profits in France and invest in the sector that now fascinates him, casinos. He approaches the Corsican godfather and emperor of the Games in France, Marcel Francisci. But in Paris, everything has changed. In May 1981, the socialist Francois Mitterrand was elected President of the Republic. He appointed the mayor of Marseille, Gaston Defferre, to the Ministry of the Interior, the man who knows everything about the Corsican mafia with which he has colluded for so long. The socialists want to break relations between the mafia and the Republic. They know the links between Corsican crime and the occult networks of Gaullism. They place their men, suppress the civic action service, the SAC, and to weaken the Corsican mafia, Gaston Defferre attacks the lungs of the system, the launderette that constitutes the gambling circles. Marcel Francisci, Charles's friend Pasqua, is the target. From 1981, Gaston Defferre decided administratively to close these gambling circles which were both places of perdition for him and which notably financed the Gaullist party via his friends. A certain number of these people, in gaming circles, will oppose these measures, including Marcel Francisci. But ultimately, he tries, by all means, to obtain the reopening and he does not obtain it. Surrounded by justice, Marcel Francisci is alone. He no longer has support in the upper echelons. In the mafia, a single godfather is a dead godfather. The head was there, the shoulders there and the rest here. And the Jaguar door was open. In January 1982, in Tchermenache, in Corsica, in a setting worthy of The Godfather, the funeral of Marcel Francisci, owner of the Haussmann club, the oldest and most prestigious club in the capital, took place . Marcel Francisci, shot a few days earlier by three revolver bullets. A car park in the 16th arrondissement had been in trouble since June 1981 with the Ministry of the Interior, the supervisory authority for the circles. This wealthy businessman, benefactor of his native village. Every young person was sure to find a job as a dealer on the continent. This RPR general advisor from Corsica had been accused a few years earlier by the Americans of being one of the bigwigs of the French connection. Marcel Francisci disappeared, Paul Mondoloni, considered the representative of Cosa Nostra in France, succeeded him. Mondoloni, after having been a great figure in the French Connection, has become an arbiter, a wise man, a godfather who can give opinions, act as guarantor and share shares between different figures in the field. So he succeeds in bringing together in a case of major trafficking, narcotics, all the figures of the Marseille underworld who are all there to put in shares, to put roughly each 10% in this investment. And it is he who will distribute the profits from this juicy traffic. Robert Feliciaggi, the African Corso, has money to invest. He contacts Paul Mondoloni, who is interested in the Bandole casino, run by a young wolf, Michel Tomi. It was then that Robert Feliciaggi met Michel Tomi, whom the French services today consider to be the last of the godfathers. Aged around thirty, Michel Tomi started as a croupier in Monaco, joined the Cercle de l'Opera in Paris, then joined the Rhone casino in Nice. He rose to prominence, went to a Spanish casino, but accused of fixing games, he hastily fled Spain. Since then, Michel Tomi has managed the Bandole casino as a family. Despite one death and a few explosions, Tomi makes the casino an extremely lucrative business. In this nebula, Robert Feliciaggi finds a living legend of the Corsican mafia, a man whose return to France Paul Mondoloni is preparing, Jean-Je Colonna. Indicted for trafficking in illicit substances during the dismantling of the French Connection, Jean-Je Colonna escaped from prison. On the run, he joined the Corsican networks in America and organized the execution of all of his father's assassins, killed in the settling of scores by the Combinati. Started 30 years earlier, this vendetta gave him the status of bandit of honor on the Isle of Beauty. Jean-Je Colonna's ten years on the run ended in 1985, when public action for trafficking in illicit substances was officially ended. But a few days before his return, Paul Mondoloni, his protector, is assassinated on the terrace of a brasserie at the top of the Canebiere, in Marseille. brewery at the top of the Canebiere, in Marseille. Michel Debacq was an investigating judge. Michel Debacq was an investigating judge. Paul Mondoloni, in his entourage, has two important characters. There are several, but there is Jean-Je Colonna, there is Michel Tomi, there is Feliciaggi, all these people. I think, when you look closely, all these people I just mentioned are from another generation. And this repentant person, whose name I won't mention , said to me "Mondoloni, he's a nobody." There, at the moment of his death. Everyone wants to rule it out and in particular, I understood that the Corsicans that you have just mentioned, Colonna, etc., all these people wanted to base their power on, I would say, the capacities of organization and negotiation with other criminal groups, particularly American ones, particularly on the international trafficking of illicit substances. And also about games. And also about games. For what ? Because they had a huge number of locations, particularly in Africa, and particularly in Latin America. This underworld figure, who was one of the main figures of the French connection. She disappeared in 85 in Marseille and it somewhat marked the end of an era for the Marseille community. This marks the end of the Marseille dominance of the Corsican Underworld, because afterwards, they will instead shift to Corsica itself, where old figures of the French connection and new figures of the voyocracy will settle down quietly. Summer 1985, Jean-Je Colonna officially returned to his village of Pylacanal, stronghold of the Colonnas. Aged 46, he has a clean criminal record and inherits the family clan, a clan that dominates southern Corsica. Among those who welcomed him was Robert Feliciaggi, whose family came from the same village. An unwavering alliance is forged between the African Corso and the new sponsor of Southern Corsica. Southern Corsica, we have the desire to take charge of territories, to control territories. There are clans in all towns and even large areas of southern Corsica. And these clans swear allegiance to Jean-Je Colonna and his friends. And among his friends, there is Robert Feliciaggi. They have allegiance and so we have a kind of... We can say it, a kind of small dome of southern Corsica, which is in relation with political circles, circles, I would even say administrative circles. It's a mafia. What is a mafia? It is an organization which is criminal, which is hierarchical, which is structured. The mafia is an institution which penetrates civil society, which creates gray zones around it, which takes control of the economic fabric and more or less the social fabric and which makes its law reign, starting with that of Omerta . North of Lille, at the top of Corsica, Jean-Je Colonna faces another criminal branch which radiates from Bastia, the Brise de mer gang, named after the bar where its members hang out. The men of the Sea Breeze have broken a taboo. Where the ancients took care to preserve the island of beauty from all violence, they make Corsica their hunting ground. The Sea Breeze were members of classic organized crime, that is to say, finding a bank, setting it up and making a living from it. The sea breeze was an organization, I would say, almost a mutual organization. There was a mini-dome, in the mafia sense of the term, which decided the objectives and which demanded unfailing loyalty and discipline from its members. The Brise de Mer gang forms links with a new political force in Corsica, the nationalists. For several years, an underground armed movement, the FLNC, has been demanding the independence of the island through attacks. And all governments, left and right, are overwhelmed by the problem. Targets, barracks, courthouses, banks, in short, everything that symbolizes the French colonialist role in the eyes of the front. Not all claimed, but reaching nearly 500 in 1980. Today, the State. The French impose the colonization of our people on us. Our people are in a state of self-defense and will fight for their survival. FLNC, which at the time was unique, had a single direction with a leader who governed all clandestine activity on Corsica. And that was important at the time. It is a very small structure which directs the underground and which has control over arms purchases, that is to say over arms trafficking, and also control over the war chest which comes in large quantities. part of the non-public and festive revolutionary tax given to racketeering. There is an exacerbation and the State has difficulty taking into account a separatist aspiration. This separatist aspiration is of course also taken into account by other forces and in particular by the forces of organized crime. For what ? Because they clearly felt that there, in the process of monopolizing power and influence on the ground, they will be forced at some point to come to terms with this. And they are already composing and links are being created. False papers may be required. You must purchase a certain number of passes. And then you have to buy weapons. These contacts are facilitated by people who are inside these movements. Among those who make the link between the nationalists and the Sea Breeze, one man stands out, Richard Casanova. Coming from a bourgeois family, Richard Casanova joined the ranks of the Tout Jeune FLNC, where he became friends with one of the movement's leaders, Francois Santoni. But Richard Casanova quickly switched to the side of the thugs and joined the hard core of the Sea Breeze. Richard Casanova is an example like any other. He has a certain connivance with nationalist circles, where, I remind you, he began his career. And I repeat once again, this insular proximity which means that everyone knows, if not knows each other individually, at least knows the cousin or friend with whom we went to class in this village or that. This is how in a casino in Spain, Richard Casanova met Michel Tomi, the manager of the Bandole casino, close to Robert Filiciaggi. A strong man in the Sea Breeze, north of Corsica. A casino manager on the French Riviera. An African Corso in the ELF galaxy and a godfather to the south of the island. Here are the great figures of the third generation of the Corsican mafia. All proportions must be kept. We are not in criminal organizations as powerful as the Italian organizations, the 'Ndrangheta or the Cosa Nostra, but there is still this mafia matrix. These men who want to be businessmen above all will form complex links through a well-established company. The studies and development company, SED. Initially, an honorable showcase of the empire founded by Robert Feliciaggi. Officially, the SED provides reports and quotes for major works in Africa. But it quickly becomes a formidable factory for false invoices, bogus studies and recycling of dirty money. Thanks to the Tarallo system within ELF, the SED has privileged links with the FIBA of the Gabonese and Congolese presidents. It uses the Monaco land credit and a subsidiary of Credit Agricole. Etienne Leandri is one of the financial geniuses and advises Charles Pasqua, who now supplants Jacques Focard in the Chiraquian system. That's what the network is too, it creates obligations for you. That is to say, when you know, imagine, you want to do business in Congo, it is really in your interest very quickly to make contact, to go to rue de la Tremoille, to the SED, to have access to the African palaces. You really have an interest in going through the Corsicans directly. In 1986, the system extended to the heart of the French state when the left lost the elections. Prime Minister, Jacques Chirac appoints his friend Charles Pasqua to the Ministry of the Interior. From Place Beauvau, Pasqua puts all his networks at the disposal of the Chirac clan, in anticipation of the 1988 presidential election. Pasqua goes to Africa, expands his relationships in Gabon and Congo. He organized a veritable black cabinet within the Ministry of the Interior and engaged in parallel diplomacy, activating his multiple networks in Africa, but also in the Middle East. A consecration for his old friend, Etienne Leandri, who now has direct access to the heart of power. Pasqua didn't come to the office. It happened, but it was very, very little. On the other hand, all the people constituting both these offices or his network, the people he could appoint in the different organizations such as the regional planning department or things like that, were subordinate to Etienne, present daily . Here are the results of the vote for the election of the President of the Republic. In May 1988, Charles Pasqua became disillusioned. His friend Jacques Chirac was defeated in the presidential election against Francois Mitterrand, who was re-elected. Pasqua loses his position as minister and his confidence in Chirac. He decides to serve his own cause. Senator, he uses the presidency of the General Council of Hauts de Seine to establish his ambitions. This department is the richest in France. It is home to the headquarters of most major companies. Pasqua takes over the presidency of a mixed economy company, SEM 92. He expands his networks and asserts his influence in Gabon and Congo. France Africa is gradually transforming into Corsica Africa. The involvement of SEM 92 in cooperation in Africa is not just words. For example, in Gabon, between 91 and 93, there was funding for schools in Gabon of 40 million francs, which is not nothing, it is even a lot. Behind the scenes of SEM 92, Etienne Leandri places his men and integrates prestigious shareholders such as the Bouygues group, Generale and Lyonnaise des Eaux and of course ELF, the key instrument of neocolonialism of the French state. Elf plays an essential role in financing the French right. Francois Mitterrand understood this well. He appoints a trustworthy man, Loik Le Floch Prigent, as head of the group. I arrived at the president in 1989 at the request of Francois Mitterrand and I gave him an overview a month later, saying to him "Okay now, here are the balance of power and it is now up to you to determine whether we want, like a certain number of people around you, to sweep away, but probably we want to give France a miss, because France is well represented by Charles Pasqua and his entourage and Andre Tarallo and his entourage. Or if you actually want France to remain present in these countries, in which case we must all work together and we will try to find the best way to do it. >> So he said to me, "Okay, we're keeping the system as it is because it has proven itself. Simply tried to ensure a little rebalancing. >> Mitterrand breaks the monopoly of right-wing parties on ELF retro commissions. The hidden money from the French oil company will also pour into the Socialist Party. And to maintain his place in the system, Pasqua has no choice but to ride for everyone. There was mutual consideration between Charles Pasqua and Francois Mitterrand. It was extremely easy for me to tell both of them that we had to support the French position and that we agree on a certain number of issues. To ensure rebalancing, Loik Le Floch Prigent decides to double the Tarallo network. He hires his former colleague, Alfred Sirven, an adventurer and businessman who studied law in prison and who excels in external relations with large industrial groups. Sirven creates his own network within the ELF group with the help of Etienne Leandri. This is also what we were looking for when we came to pick up Etienne Leandri. It's not for everyone to know how to divert hundreds of millions of euros from an operation without anyone catching you. It is on these over-invoiced operations or with retro commissions, on these secondary operations that Etienne intervenes for the largest French companies. Etienne Leandri is one of those who transplanted the mechanisms of serious crime into the modern economy and perverted the French capitalist system. We end up with someone cross-functional. We always have the impression that when there has been an affair and a scandal, there are three, four names, but the people who are there are people who in reality have not been involved in a single affair. You have this engineering and know-how which means that it is present on dozens of cases. It's quite frightening. When we go from nuclear power to Taiwan's frigates, you can always find traces of Etienne Leandri. In the early 1990s, most of the major export contracts for large French companies went through Etienne Leandri. And then we move on to something that no longer has anything to do with it. We're really getting serious. We are laundering gigantic operations between States, between large companies, with billions and billions. And we work a little bit after the comma. Retro commissions are flooding the French political system and corrupting the Republic. Elf is at its peak. I said to Henri Tarallo, do you think it is reasonable that we find Etienne Leandri everywhere like that? He told me yes, he is not the only one. Then he showed me that there were a number of other intermediaries and that he was not alone. So it was good. The problem of the intermediary is that there must not be too many monopolies and exclusivities. And there were others. I won't give you the names, but they weren't Corsican in this case. We have reached a stage where the interest of the nation, when we arrive at the period of Alfred Sirven, becomes almost secondary. The main thing is to get the money out. In distribution, you always have a little bit of the nation's interest, but there is still a lot of money that is used for something else. And so, in the ELF system, there were reasons of state and these reasons of state persisted. And so, I wouldn't say anything about anything. Like Etienne Leandri, Robert Feliciaggi is one of those who knew how to take advantage of this silence and this dark side of the Republic. Still based in Africa, Robert Feliciaggi is now moving up a gear with Michel Tomi, who is seeking to reinvent himself. Michel Tomi has just spent several months in prison for the fraudulent management of the Bandole casino. Tomi retreated to Africa and launched with Feliciaggi one of their most lucrative operations, the creation of the PMU in Cameroon, Gabon and Congo. It was extremely clever. At the time, I remember, the people at the French PMU were furious because they said "Yes, but then we pay the rights, we pay everything here, etc." They plug in their TV, they have Africans playing in Cameroon on the races in France and we have nothing in the way of rights and royalties. Only the Feliciaggi as Tomi said "Yes, but we have the authorization of the African presidents. >> Michel Tomi and Robert Feliciaggi now want to duplicate the Cuba of Lucky Luchino and Meyer Lansky and take over a vulnerable territory infiltrated by banks, airports, police and special services. Off the coast of Gabon, in the Gulf of Guinea, a tiny archipelago, Sao Tome-e-Principe is riddled with debt. An ideal hunting ground. Charles Pasqua takes the matter very seriously. At the beginning of 1992, he went to the archipelago and convinced the president to create a free zone there and make it a tax haven. They had managed to persuade a certain number of ELF managers, it will serve you a bit like when you have accounts in Luxembourg, Jersey or Guernsey. It's true that Pasqua, at one point, went to visit that. I think there was Balcany at the time who was with him. But it was a very serious project and really there, initiated by Charles Pasqua. But the Chiracians are certain that Pasqua is now playing against Chirac and he is nipping the project in the bud. Sao Tome will not be a mafia paradise. The idea has not been abandoned, however. Michel Tomi will relaunch the plan elsewhere, in Africa. Robert Feliciaggi, he no longer believes in the Cuban dream in Africa. His friend, Sassou Ngueso, lost power following the African Democratic Spring. From Zaire to Ivory Coast, most of the actors of La France Afrique fall. Robert Feliciaggi then bets on another island where he dreams of entering politics. Corsica. Robert Feliciaggi spoke about what was done in Tangier, Monaco or Cuba. This was what he had in mind and Robert Feliciaggi spoke about it regularly to his close friends. We are Corsicans, we are Africans, we are a little in politics, we are a little in games. So it's very sulfurous. A man collected the secrets of Robert Feliciaggi. He agreed to speak to us. He prefers to remain anonymous. The idea was to say "Okay, we are interrupting this intermediary activity to be able to enter the political game. >> And then Corsican affairs were added to this. And so there you have it. The idea was to abandon the African settlement to resettle in a country that he actually knew quite poorly, which was Corsica. Corsica is then the scene of a merciless war. The FLNC exploded into rival factions. On one side, the historic canal, embodied in particular by Francois Santoni. You should know that we have very important and appropriate means to defeat any armed gang that would try to oppose our action. On the other, the usual channel embodied by the MPA, by Alain Orsoni. It became clear through press releases that there could also be problems within the FLNC. What matters to us is our policies. Alain Orsoni, who is a man who is major in this MPA movement, since he will be one of the leaders, but who, in his family, is immersed in organized crime, since these people were involved in the creation and operation of laboratories clandestine transformation of morphine base into heroin, including as far as the United States. The split in the FLNC is a boon for the mafia. The only authority that can arbitrate conflicts between illegal immigrants is a justice of the peace, external to the movement, but linked to it. This is how Jean-Je Colonna, Robert Feliciaggi's friend, will find himself approached on one side by Francois Santoni and on the other by Alain Orsoni. The state of nationalism today can allow any manipulation. Instead of easing tensions, certain mafiosi are increasingly supplying the nationalists with heavy weapons. What matters for the mafiosi is to increase tension to encourage the emergence of a new status more suited to their business impulses. And why not that of a free zone? It is with this objective that Robert Feliciaggi entered politics. Jean-Je Colonna gives him the keys to the town hall of Pila-Canale, until then managed by a member of the Colonna family. Feliciaggi will be re-elected mayor in each election. Feliciaggi. Robert Feliciaggi. Robert Feliciaggi. Robert Feliciaggi. Robert Feliciaggi. Robert Feliciaggi, Robert Feliciaggi, is proclaimed mayor-elect, Robert Feliciaggi. There, he really takes a stand in the South and in the deep South. And then, he enters the assembly of Corsica. And then, I think that the next step he had planned was the deputation. He thought he could succeed where others so far had failed. What was success? It was, in a way, unifying the different movements in Corsica to be able to be the exclusive interlocutor of political power in Paris. Robert Feliciaggi says there is every reason to believe it, especially since he has direct access to the government. In 1993, the right defeated the socialists in the elections. Edouard Balladur is now Prime Minister. Charles Pasqua is back at the Ministry of the Interior. Knowing his power, Pasqua grants new authorizations to Feliciaggi and Tomi to operate new casinos. Charles Pasqua became... I don't know what word we can use to say... That is to say that deep down he covered, he was a bit like super dad, super godfather, super protector. But that's what's complicated himself, that is to say that Pasqua wasn't doing this for the money. But Pasqua makes a mistake. In view of the 1995 presidential election, he took up the cause of Prime Minister Edouard Balladur, against his old friend. Jacques Chirac. To ensure his candidate's chances, Pasqua must calm things down in Corsica. Presidential campaigns are ripe for negotiations. Politicians give ground more easily. The nationalist movement then lowered its arms during the campaign. Mr. Pasqua negotiated like many other Ministers of the Interior, he negotiated with the nationalists as part of a balance of power to buy social peace. And the closer we got to the elections on the island, the more complacent the State became with him, even if it meant trying to regain control. But each time we go backwards, the less credible we are to move forward afterwards. The centerpiece of all political battles is money. Pasqua and Balladur must dry up the hidden financing of their rivals. And to do this, take control of ELF. Edouard Balladur fires Loik Le Floch-Prigent and places a man of his own at the head of the French oil company. Where can a French politician get cash? Charles Pasqua, he put his African networks and the networks of Corsica Africa at the service of Balladur throughout this period, against his old friend Jacques Chirac. The new boss of Elf takes legal action and presents the group as a victim of the Sirven, Tarallo system. Throughout their investigations, the judges of the Financial Center go back to the top of the pyramid. FIBA is closed. A major spectacle trial is in preparation. The ELF affair splashes the Republic. Curiously, the judges do not open the mafia aspect of the case. Suspected of money laundering in another investigation, the SED was closed a few years later. There is a sort of implosion of Gaullist networks in Africa and we see that this has implications for not only French people abroad who are in Africa, but the financing of French political parties. The judges will never question Etienne Leandri and for good reason. At the age of 80, the former Gestapist gigolo, Lucky Luciano's ex-ambassador to the CIA, one of the men who founded the SAC and helped create the French system of retro commissions, dies a natural death. It was curious when Etienne died, it was at the Montparnasse cemetery. There were very few people. There were close friends, we will say, who were there, very few in number. And then afterwards, there was a fight over the body and the body stayed with the homeless for a year. I tried to find him to find his grave and I ended up finding it in the village of the Giuncheto family, in Corsica, without any administrative trace of the movement of the body having been preserved. In May 1995, defying all predictions, Jacques Chirac was elected President of the Republic. Chirac will not forgive Pasqua for his betrayal. For the first time in his life, Charles Pasqua is an isolated man. The African Corseaux lose their political protector. Are you part of the Pasqua network? The Pasqua network, I want to tell you, in my opinion, concerning me at least, it can only be a network of friendship and friendly relations. So you're part of the network? I never had a professional connection or friendship with Mr. Pasqua. It's just affection outside of business. The noose is tightening around African Corseaux. The judges are interested in suspicious financial flows and discover that the money from the resale of one of their casinos financed one of Charles Pasqua's campaigns. The corruption between Pasqua, Tomi and Feliciaggia will be proven during the judgment pronounced a few years later. I have nothing to reproach myself for, that's why I'm at peace. Now, I don't want to go and be incarcerated in Monaco for the pleasure of a judge. That's quite clear. Firmly established in Africa, Michel Tomi offers refuge to his old friend Richard Casanova. On the run from the most spectacular sea breeze heist, the heist of the century. Nearly 19 million euros stolen from the coffers of the UBS bank in Geneva. 220 kilos of notes. Michel Tomi gets closer to Richard Casanova and frees himself from Robert Feliciaggi. In the 90s, it's true that Tomi seemed to gradually supplant Robert Feliciaggi in Africa through the PMUs and through Africa-France relations, it was he who organized the stories of the Grand Prix of friendship, etc. We no longer saw Feliciaggi, we mainly saw Tomi. Discreet in Africa, Robert Feliciaggi is increasingly present in Corsica, where the succession of tragic events will allow him to advance his project. Between political disagreements and mafia excesses, the time arrived in May 95 for the state sale, after the murder of Stephane Gallo of the FLNC, a historic channel. 1995, a year with nearly one attack per day, around forty murders, including 12 assassinations of nationalist activists, six in each camp and a reconciliation which seemed difficult. Some of the illegal immigrants, exploited by the mafiosi and the gangsters, are engaged in a violent standoff with the State. The attacks follow one another. In October 1996, the town hall of Bordeaux, stronghold of Prime Minister Alain Juppe, was hit by a bomb. Juppe breaks off discussions with the nationalists. The sides are cut. In Corsica, the blue nights are starting again. It continued to escalate until the evening of February 6, 1998. Good evening, the prefect of Corsica was shot dead two hours ago in Ajaccio. Good evening, the prefect of Corsica was shot dead two hours ago in Ajaccio. Prefect Claude Erignac is killed by three bullets to the head. Prefect Claude Erignac is killed by three bullets to the head. Covered in a shroud, the Republic bleeds. Power is disarmed. From Matignon, Prime Minister Lionel Jospin, a socialist leader brought to power by a new alternation, personally took charge of the file and launched the Matignon process. 3:50 p.m., the nationalist elected officials slow down on rue de Varennes. For the first time, they come to Matignon. But want to be careful. Before the meeting. Among the Corsican elected officials participating in the discussions are Robert Feliciaggi, convinced of reaching the goal. Corsican-Africans do not tell others exactly what they want. And the opposite is true. But everyone has an interest in it because the nationalists can get money. These are alliances where everyone hopes to have the other anyway. We don't walk hand in hand. We believe that we can go a long way together and that everyone can advance their own cause. He therefore succeeded in some way in federating and bringing together everything that mattered politically in Corsica. And so the central power in Paris decided to negotiate with them. Well, the autonomists, ultimately, opened the way on this story of independence. But behind it, it was taken over by groups who wanted to transform Corsica into a free zone, at the customs level, at the financial level. So there. I hoped that the elected representatives of Corsica, in their diversity, sometimes confronted with contradictions or divergences, but also with the same experience of the island and a desire to identify majority options , could accomplish this work. I am sure that Jospin saw nothing of what was happening in that the main actors in front of him were in reality people who were pursuing a completely different objective which was quite simply to make a transformation of the island for reasons mercantile, to develop casinos, slot machines, etc. I am convinced that Jospin obviously didn't see that at all. Francois Santoni condemns Matignon's process. He left the historic Canal and is not participating in the negotiations. Francois Santoni is isolated and logically, it falls on a summer evening. The assassins left Francois Santoni no chance. Francois Santoni collapses, 13 bullets in his body, two in the head. Francois Santoni collapses, 13 bullets in his body, two in the head. On the island, violence still continues. In the spring of 2002, Lionel Jospin prepared to face Jacques Chirac in the second round of the presidential election, but he was eliminated in the first round. The Matignon process is abandoned. The Matignon process was not put in place, especially because Lionel Jospin was not elected. Otherwise, in my opinion, it would have been implemented. Then, from the moment when it was unraveling, when nothing was happening, we started a process again. There had already been several attempts. This one is on the verge of success. Really, there was little missing. From the moment it doesn't succeed, we start from scratch. The cards are redistributed and that's it. The French police have just arrested Yvan Colonna. The assassin of the. Prefect Erignac. Appointed Minister of the Interior, Nicolas Sarkozy will leave his mark for the next ten years and entrust the Corsican file to a super cop, Bernard Squarcini, the man who supervised the tract of the assassin of Prefect Erignac. In the summer of 2003, the Corsicans were called to decide by referendum on a new status for the island. They reject reform. Among the Corso-Africans, nothing is going well. The Tomi Feliciaggi duo breaks up. The former partners divide up the territories. To Feliciaggi, Congo, to Tomi, Cameroon. But the friendship between Michel Tomi and Richard Casanova exacerbates tensions. Through Casanova, the Sea Breeze could extend to Africa, which Jean-Je Colonna refuses. The situation is getting worse, sharing is not working and as expected, one of the two clans will lose everything. It has not escaped your attention that for some time now, I have been the target of a certain French press. Dear friends, do not let yourself be contaminated by this media relentlessness. The truth will ultimately triumph over misleading amalgams and baseless rumors. One evening in March 2006, Robert Feliciaggi collapses in the parking lot of Ajaccio airport. Shot in the back, the pioneer of Corsica Africa is no more. It's an earthquake. It was an earthquake at that time. No one understand. There is an investigation which, in my opinion, has made little progress and perhaps has already been closed. We know very well that investigations in Africa are difficult. We also know that they are in Corsica. I have no idea where this could come from, but there should still be plenty of enemies. A vast funeral procession accompanies Robert Feliciaggi. His coffin is covered with three flags, the French, Congolese and Corsican flags. In the crowd, we recognize his old friend, Jean-Je Colonna. Jean-Je Colonna who in turn died a few months later in a road accident. The disappearance of the godfather of Southern Corsica opens a cycle of revenge at the heart of the highest criminal authorities on the island. In April 2008, Richard Casanova was assassinated by his rival within the Sea Breeze gang, which imploded during violent infighting. Between 2008 and 2013, 68 assassinations and 29 attempts decimated the clans and their allies in almost perfect symmetry. In the South, the generation of Jean-Je Colonna has lost its footing and we can consider that currently, a new generation is in charge in the South of these mafia tendencies and that in the North, a new generation of Corsican banditry in the region Bastiaise is in charge. I think the distinction between Northern criminal enterprises and Southern mafia tendencies is still valid. Simply, what is revealing is that for La Brise de mer, for example, and we can also draw a parallel with Jean-Je Colonna, it lasted 30 years. And these are organizations, notably Sea Breeze, which ended up collapsing, not under the increased costs of the repressive institution, police and justice, but essentially due to their internal dissension. As in general, there is no coordination process to get them to agree among themselves, it happens from 11-43. Of all the godfathers of the third generation, only Michel Tomi remains. In a confidential report, French services present him as the emperor of games in Central Africa and the last godfather in France. From Gabon, Michel Tomi rules an empire that transcends the African continent and extends to the Far East. This proves to you that we came to be well established in the country and not come simply to take money and leave. Because look at the quality of the product, it's four years old. The power of his network makes Michel Tomi an indispensable man for the French special services. And I could tell you that in the world of intelligence, I have again experienced in recent years the interest of Tomi in certain administrations. Because the Tomi are of course people who are in the games in Africa. But of course, they also have information on the what and the how. Because in African casinos, in African games rooms, who comes? It is not the common people who have one euro to support their family per month. It's not the same people. So it's a source of information. Bernard Squarcini, the man whom Nicolas Sarkozy placed at the head of the French services, watches over the interests of Michel Tomi thanks to an antenna established in Gabon. But Bernard Squarcini, whom I knew well, he knew everyone there. He knew Feliciaggi, he knew Tomi, he knew Francois Santoni. He knew absolutely everyone on Bernard Squarcini Island. Necessarily. The doctor, in general, is in contact with the sick. To make you understand things, at a given moment, the proximity of these people to the business circles and the political-administrative circles of these countries, particularly African ones, means that there is a certain impunity that is organized. And therefore, the zones of force and the balance of power prosper to their own advantage. The police say he is the godfather of godfathers, but he is not arrested. So, we can clearly see that it is very complicated. They are on the edge of the Yellow line. They brush against her all the time. They very probably exceed it and it is difficult to see the excesses, to see them in a rational, logical way. In 2012, the election of Francois Hollande as President of the Republic put an end to the political protections that the last of the godfathers could boast of. One of his first decisions was dismissed, Bernard Squarcini. The assassination, a few weeks apart, of two major figures in Corsican society, the former president of Corsica du Sud and the president of the island's Chamber of Commerce , triggers an electric shock at the top of the State . The current drift must be stopped. What is a mafia system? It's not just thugs, criminals. It is a system that is anchored in society. This was said earlier by another elected official. And we can clearly see that the entire machinery of the State is getting underway, accelerating the process that has been underway since Feliciaggi's death and truly designating the man who is at the tip of Valls' finger and obviously Michel Tomi. In June 2014, Michel Tomi was indicted for corruption of foreign public officials, forgery and use of forgery and breach of trust. The empire founded by the Corso-Africans is faltering. And as a sign, in June 2015, the man who, since the birth of the Fifth Republic, has protected, if not rubbed shoulders with the Corsican mafia, the man who allowed it to take root in the heart of power without ever trying to fight it, dies of old age. Charles Pasqua takes his secrets with him. For a century, the Corsican mafia has prospered so much in the French Republic that losing one of its protectors or the last of its godfathers will not be enough to break the system. Today, in Corsica, the Cuban dream is within reach. Entire sectors of the island economy are under the control of mafia systems such as tourism, real estate and security. mafia like tourism, real estate or security. Fear is their absolute weapon to control societies and force silence. to control societies and force silence. Soon, a fourth generation of godfathers will emerge, whether the Republic needs them or not. No democracy is condemned to cohabit with a mafia which is corrupting it. To combat it, we must already become aware of its existence, its toxicity and its roots and make this invisible power visible. Everything else depends on the public authorities.