Sometimes when we collect things we want to experience what it was like back in the day. Get that nostalgia hit... Sometimes we don't actually want to experience everything exactly like it was back in the day. Dialing up to the internet, waiting all night to download a few meg file... Swapping 20 floppy disks to play a game... Those are things that - sometimes we do. Like, sometimes it's good to back and relive those because something like swapping floppy disks still does have that nostalgia hit. but... today... there are ways that, if we just want to play a game, or experience some software... we can do that incredibly quickly and with convenience. And so today, we're going to be doing something on the other side of it... we're going to be taking some old hardware and completely maxing it out. Well actually not completely. There's one other card that I do have that a little bit of work work. But, that'll be a fun other video. Today we're going to take a Macintosh SE/30 and upgrade the ROM, the RAM, a CPU upgrade card, the fan... We're going to do a little bit of repairs, and so this is intended to be my retro daily-driver. You know, the go-to computer if I want to quickly pop in a game or load something up or experience something I can do that with today's modern conveniences. This is a Zen Build, so it's me showing what I do. I don't talk during my videos but I do include more information in these subtitles. So, if you're curious as to what I'm doing or why, please turn on Closed Captions. But, yeah this is going to be a beast of a machine, so I hope you enjoy the video. This is a Radius FPD (Full Page Display) card that I'll leave for another build! Console5.com has these long T15 extension bits to help open up these macs. I messed up here and should have discharged the CRT before removing the neck connector and drive cage... You need to be REALLY careful not to bump the CRT neck, or you're going to have a bad time. This hard drive still works, but I'm looking for something a bit more flexible. This BlueSCSI v2 is packed with features and it can be powered right from the SCSI cable. It doesn't need the extra molex connection. There aren't mount holes where I want this to be so I'll use a little double-sided tape to fix it in the case. Make sure it's insulated and the bottom of the PCB isn't touching the metal case. I'll set up the BlueSCSI images on my modern PC but will install the OS after it's installed. Formatting with ExFAT will give the best performance. I use DiskJockey to create two 1GB virtual drives and copy them over. And wait... The Noctua fan is incredibly well made, quiet and has great airflow. They make a model that is the exact same size as the one in these classic Macs. In order to install it, I'll need to remove the analog board. To discharge the CRT, clip one end of some alligator clips to the CRT ground, and the other end to the shaft of a flathead screwdriver. Slide the tip under the anode cap and make contact wit the metal pins. There may or may not be a pop. You can then work safely around the analog board and continue with the disassembly. There are small plastic clips that can be removed by pushing the center pin back through the board. The leads to the fan are connected directly to the board, so we'll clip them close to the fan and reuse them. Pay close attention where the screws are located (I didn't). There are three sets of holes they can go back into. I'll solder some Dupont connectors to easily plug into the fan. I'm a bit sad that I didn't have wire-shrink and connector colors that match. This is something that will bug me and I'll end up redoing... The board helpfully tells us that the yellow lead is the positive one - this is actually standard for fans. I just didn't realize that it's been a standard for so long. You can see the yellow and black wire are on the right. Notice that Im screwing the fan into the wrong holes. It should be in the bottom two sets, not the top two. This will prevent the case from closing. A tiny bit of cable management, and we're good to test. When replacing the analog board, make sure the brightness control knob is slotted back into the bottom right. The case should just slide into the clips after that. Reconnect the ground lead and replace the anode cap. Carefully slide the drive cages back in, being incredibly careful not to bump the CRT neck board. The MacBatt is a simple, non-destructive CR2320 coin cell battery holder. The ROM-inator is thinner than most ROM slots. Because of this I added a little solder to the pins to thicken up the contacts and make sure its seated securely in the slot. Others use rubber bands to maintain pressure, but this solution has worked well for me. I had originally planned on making DIY SIMMs, but the kit I ordered were only for 4mb SIMMS. These are 16mb. Giving me a total of maximum 128MB the system can handle with the ROM-inator II. I test one bank at a time in case there are issues they'll be a little easier to isolate and track down. The fan looks good... ... but there's a problem with the logic board. There's no chime. This is a common problem that's usually remedied by recapping the logic board. So... I like to use ChipQuik for removing SMD components. It's an alloy with a low melting point. After adding a little flux and some heat from a fine-tipped iron, the caps come away without having to heat up the board and risk other components. For these axial capacitors, It's easiest to clip the leads and then remove the legs afterwards. I use a hemostat to hold onto the leg while applying flux and heat to the other side of the board. Always triple check the polarity when installing caps. On axial caps, the arrows point to the negative end. Large surface mount caps are easy to install by taking down one leg at a time and using plenty of flux to make sure the solder gets under the cap. You can re-use the IPA a few times but make sure to filter it, and only ever use it for PCB cleaning again. I use 99% because it evaporates faster, but using one with a higher water content helps break down come electrolytic fluid that dissolve better in water. Do a scrub while still sitting in the IPA. This will allow anything you scrub off to dissolve in the IPA. It's much more difficult once the board dries. You can assist the evaporation process by blowing it out or setting it in front of a fan (in a well ventilated room). Lookin' pretty good! Let's see if it works and if we can get a chime out of it this time... Nice! The recap fixed the sound issues and everything still looks good. We're good to go. The two drive images on the BlueSCSI are blank, so the first thing I'll do is initialize them and install Mac OS 6.0.8. This tool will benchmark the current computer against known Apple computers. We should see numbers ~100% for an SE/30. Before installing the accelerator card, modified drivers for the SE/30 need to be installed first. These cards are an amazing reproduction by Bolle who can be found on the 68kmla forums. There are multiple versions of the 68040 CPU. The &quot;LC&quot; versions do not have an FPU which is a dedicated unit used for floating point math. The mhz is the MAXIMUM clock rating. This is not the speed the chip will run at since the clock is not on the chip. The higher the clock rating, the more efficiently it will run at higher speeds. I'm lucky to have a &quot;Full Fat&quot; 40mhz version. They're pretty rare these days. This heat sync isn't the best, but since I've got a 40mhz rated chip, it will do just fine. Have to be extra careful when installing a CPU like this. Any bent pins could spell doom. The location of the card is very close to the metal chassis where the drives mount. I take a strip of adhesive-backed cardboard used in batteries to insulate the bottom of the board and protect it from a potential short. Looks like System 6 doesn't play nice with the accelerator drivers, so offscreen I upgraded it to system 7.1 and that did the trick. We can start to see some crazy high numbers as compared to a stock SE/30. We see almost a 3,000% increase in speed on the Floating Point benchmark. This is the difference a dedicated FPU makes. This is only a single test that performs a sort on a list of numbers, but it's an interesting gauge of a generic complex operation. There are holes to secure the adapter card, but they're not threaded. So I'm taking some regular machine screws and gluing the nuts onto the back. This way I won't have to use pliers (in a very tight space) to try to hold the nut while screwing in the card. Now its super sturdy! The network card is integrated into the adapter. Im using the same glued-nut trick with this board too. Here I'm setting up MacTCP and MacPPP for some future online-focused videos. ... or try to anyway... When I installed the fan before, I used the wrong holes, causing it to be about an inch too tall for the case to close. There must have been different types of fans or configurations, otherwise I'm not sure why those holes would have been there! I had recently cleaned up and retr0brighted the case (lost video footage) so it's looking really good. Now for some fun. Im going through and adding a few games. The first of which being Dark Castle. I literally haven't played this in decades, so I'm a bit rusty. Time for some Carmen San Diego! And I always loved the black and white version of Prince of Persia on these Classic Macs. A few issues along the way, but all-in-all a huge success.