As a mother-- I simply cannot imagine, being a mother in Gaza right now or being a parent. And, you know, thinking about my daughter was a big part of why I resigned because I knew at some point in the future And I, when she asked me, if she said, "Mom, you were working for the State Department. What were you doing?" I wanted to be able to tell her... I'm sorry. My name is Annelle Sheline. I worked for the State Department's Bureau of Democracy, Human Rights and Labors Office of Near East Affairs. I started March 27th of 2023, and I resigned on March 26th, 2024 due to the Biden administration's unconditional support for Israel's military operations and blockade of Gaza. There are many ways that the U.S. record on human rights was significantly tarnished before October 7th. But after October 7th, the U.S. had zero credibility. Many people are attracted to government work when I said I was going to resign, colleagues said, "Well, you think you're going to have a bigger impact outside of government than you do inside?" which, you know, is a fair point. And I do think that as someone who has spent most of my career I did want to try to do what I could on the inside. I think what became clear especially the essentially six months It just became clear that there was nothing I have a PhD in political science. I studied the Middle East. And just when I was starting the PhD, I applied for a Boren Fellowship, which, took me to Egypt for about a year studying Arabic. And that meant that I I was already fairly skeptical so I didn't have a lot of illusions about what it would be like to but I did think it would be worthwhile to see kind of, you know, I critique of U.S. government policy, so it would be useful to go in and see So when October 7th happened, However, it became clear very early on and this was something And this is part of why we saw Josh Paul resign so early, for example, because he was involved in authorizing the weapons, and he was seeing the way this was going. When it came to providing I could not support the provision of and as we have now seen, that they were Inside the State Department, to me and to many of my colleagues, what the U.S. was going to do as far as and what Israel was going to do as far as really just essentially trying to destroy Gaza. Can you tell Americans who turn on their televisions or open up their social media, or read a newspaper and they see these horrific images out of Gaza, the number of bodies, the mothers just the horrible death toll and devastation And they wonder to themselves, "Is the United States supporting I felt complicit to the extent that by not speaking out about it that I was participating. You know, even though, you know, Israel-Palestine was not one of the countries where I was observing directly And like I said, that the impossibility I wasn't initially planning to go public. I planned to just resign, and I'd let my And so I didn't think anybody would care who'd been there a year decided But it was in conversations with colleagues who themselves were but who were not in a position to resign, or who did feel that by staying on the inside, they they were able to have an impact. And they said, "Please go public with your resignation." I'd done what I could on the inside. I just couldn't walk through the door anymore. You know, and I owed the government a year and I didn't stay a day longer. State Department staffer Annelle Sheline resigned in protest this week and decided to go public after colleagues In an interview with The Washington Post, anymore and that, "Trying to advocate The way Israel and as well as the United States have been involved in conducting this war... It could have been done in a very different manner. The levels of the casualties that we're seeing, the use of starvation as a weapon of war, the fact that the United States isn't using its leverage to insist that aid get in, and that a ceasefire be put in place. I thought to a certain extent I thought maybe Jake Sullivan, but I think, and part of that was due to Biden had so many things on his plate. You know, that he'd maybe just to his sort of direct team, because he had done a good job of portraying himself as a fairly empathetic person. I in my head, I sort of thought you know, this wouldn't be happening. Excuse me, but I think, unfortunately, what we've seen, I think it's fairly clear that the Gaza policy was coming from him. For all that, I am extremely I very much believe in what And I want to live in a country that lives up to that. I think that the way the United States uses inside the State Department, the U.S. uses it selectively. We criticize our adversaries. We criticize Syria. We criticize Iran. We criticize China. We don't criticize Israel. We don't criticize Saudi Arabia. These violations are documented, but it doesn't U.S. military power remains the primary objective, you know, maintaining the U.S. as is the primary thing driving U.S. foreign policy. We are undermining the idea of human rights writ large and delegitimizing it as a concept. Which is extremely alarming. I'm shocked by the lack of action I'm shocked by the hands raised by the U.S. ambassador in the Security Council I'm shocked by the lack of action of principled states who need to take, again, a principled, concrete I don't know that there's anything the U.S. government could do at this point, maybe short of actually working to establish a state of Palestine that would address that complete destruction I think unless we saw a complete 180 this administration withholding weapons, and working to establish a Palestinian state. I think that short of that, there's very little that the U.S. could do. Any senior person who says, "I just wasn't aware" is lying. is lying. I do think that at least I do think that a generational change is coming. But in terms of kind of the I'm worried for the future of this country and what effects that is likely to have on the rest of the world.