During the American Civil War life as a POW was no and a big part of people's misery was the food, whether you were scrounging for vermin in a Union prison on Lake Erie or flatout starving in the infamous Andersonville prison in Georgia, but on occasion there were glimmers of decent food to be had like this mock apple pie that I'm making using a recipe from 1863. So thank you to Factor for sponsoring this video as we look at the meager foods of a Civil War prison this time on Tasting History. Now before we start with our mock apple pie I just wanted to thank you, thank everyone for watching Tasting History every Tuesday and subscribing because the channel just hit 2.5 million subscribers, and yeah who knew that there were so many food history lovers out there, not I. So thank you for subscribing, for supporting the channel for buying my book the Tasting History cookbook and yeah now onto some Civil War prison food, not the best segue... but if there is one thing that pretty much everyone knows about prisons during the Civil War it's that the food sucked or was non-existent, and so when I was trying to figure out what dish I wasgoing to make for this episode I came across some some roadblocks, because I didn't want to give myself dysentery. Luckily I did find out that if you were an officer in many of the prisons the food wasn't that bad. For instance at Fort wrote a letter to his wife on December 8th 1861 saying that &quot;Our closet is never without crackers, cheese, bologna, sausage, fruit cake, plain cake, coffee, tea.&quot; And on Johnson's Island located in Lake Erie just off of Sandusky, Ohio they allowed Confederate prisoners at least the officers to get care packages from home and there was one man Lieutenant Colonel John Inzer of Alabama who really took advantage of this receiving in one month at least three different care packages from three different women. ;) One of them included &quot;6 pounds of sugar, 3 pounds coffee, 3 cans milk, 3 tomatoes, 1 box mustard, 3 papers pepper, 5 pounds butter, 20 pounds meal, and 25 pounds flour, ham, onions, dried fruit.&quot; I am not sure what papers pepper is, I tried to do some research and nothing came up. I'm wondering if pepper was sold in like paper sachets, not entirely sure. Anyway other boxes that he received included things like strawberries and cucumbers, and different cakes and pies, and it is the pie but as it was wartime and these care packages especially down south and so I'm going to be 'Confederate Receipt Book A Compilation of Over One Hundred Receipts, Adapted to the Times.' &quot;Apple Pie Without Apples. To one small bowl of crackers, that have been soaked until no hard parts remain, add one teaspoonful of tartaric acid, sweeten to your taste, add some butter, and a very little nutmeg.&quot; And you'll note that this is a very poorly written recipe as are many historic recipes. There are very few measurements, there's no mention of any kind of crust, and it doesn't tell you how to cook it. Do you bake it? Is it done raw? It's probably not, it is probably baked but it doesn't actually say that so I am going to be also looking at some later So for this recipe what you'll need is: 1 teaspoon of 2 tablespoons of butter, a 1/2 teaspoon of nutmeg, but what kind of crackers? Because crackers then are not like crackers now. Now there are later recipes again from mock apple pie that but those recipes were put out during the Great Depression by Ritz crackers and Ritz crackers did not exist at this time so they were probably a much more plain cracker similar [clack clack] but if you don't have any of that you can also just use some So break up your crackers and put them in a bowl and cover with water and let them sit until they soften. Mine took a couple hours though club crackers take about 10 seconds. While they soften whisk together the brown sugar, tartaric acid, and nutmeg and add in the butter. So drain the crackers and give them a good mashing, and then add in the sugar mixture, and mix. And that is all that the recipe actually says to do. So we got to figure out what to do for a crust, and how to bake it, how long to bake it, I don't know it's going to take some trial and error and that is why after a full day of cooking and stuff like this sometimes and so I reach for a meal from today's sponsor Factor. Now just like Hellofresh, Factor who is owned by Hellofresh, delivers meals right to your door but with Factor they know cooking to be done. They are chef-crafted ready to eat, never frozen, takes 2 minutes to prepare them, and they're ready to go. They're really perfect when you just don't have any time in your schedule to do some cooking 'cus we are all so busy or to bring to work. Now of course I work from home, and I still eat them here but I used to take them into the office all the time when I had an office job like 3 or 4 days a week I had a Factor meal. The delicious meal that I made today for lunch was a chicken piccata a wonderful meal in only 2 minutes. So head over to factor75.com and just click the link in the description and use my code TASTINGHISTORY50 to get 50% off of your first order plus 20% off of your next month of orders. That is factor75.com using code TASTINGHISTORY50 for 50% off of your first order and 20% off of And now with your Factor meal deliciously eaten you can move on to your crust. But what crust are we going to make? Well luckily this book did have several recipes the one I'm using is for Potato Crust. &quot;Boil six good-sized mealy potatoes, and mash them fine, add salt, a spoonful of butter, and two of water while they are hot, then work in flour enough to make a paste to roll out...&quot; So not really your typical pie dough, and there are lots one for artificial oysters which are made with is a recipe for nice buns. Anyway for your potato crust what you'll need is: 6 russet potatoes, 1 and 1/2 teaspoons of salt, 1 tablespoon of butter, 2 tablespoons of water, and about a cup or 120 grams of flour. So first peel the potatoes and cut them into quarters or eighths, and then set them in a large pot with water enough Boil gently for about 20 minutes or until they're very and mash them up as smooth as you can. Now while they're still hot you can add the salt, the butter, and the water, and mix. Then start adding flour just a little at a time mixing until the potatoes come together to form something like a dough. This is not going to be a roll out kind of dough, it just- it just isn't. If you make it, and if you can figure out how to make it like a rollable dough let me know because because I was unable instead, I just kind of took the potato mixture and mashed it into the bottom and the sides of a pie pan, and it is firm enough that you can kind of make a nice crimping on top. Then pour in your fake apple pie filling, level it off and set it in the oven at 400degF, 205deg C for 15 minutes, and then reduce the heat to about 350degF, 175degC and bake for another 15 to 20 minutes. After about 20 minutes mine started to crack on the top which I think means it's done, not entirely sure but that's when I took it out and I did leave it to cool completely. And while your pie cools you can thank your lucky stars I know I did that I was able to find that mention of prisoners getting pie, because you would not want to be eating what most prisoners during the Civil War were eating. Following the first major battle of the American Civil War the First Battle of Bull Run both Union and Confederate troops were taken prisoner by the opposing side and sent to prisons. At this time these prisons tended to be well built with the infrastructure to handle and care for the inmates. Food at the time was also relatively good because should you be entering prison with a bit of money where you could buy things like sugar and fresh and just other things that you might want. Generally And those meals weren't extravagant but they were hearty usually some sort of bean or vegetable soup, and then a bit of meat, usually salted meat, but sometimes fresh meat that had apple cider vinegar or other vinegar put on At Fort Warren in Boston prisoners received fresh beef with and baked beans on Sundays, and this was in addition to tea coffee and over a pound of bread every day. &quot;The food we received at Johnson's Island was not, except at times, such as a prisoner had a right to complain of. Then too from our friends, and we received many such contributions.&quot; But should you not have any friends to send you these your opinion of the cuisine might be a little bit For example at that same exact prison, Johnson's Island on Lake Erie, another prisoner described the food saying &quot;Bread made of inferior flour, which was occasionally sour, was issued. The meat was Rusty bacon or beef neck... Occasionally we had a few worm eaten peas, and twice I saw some small potatoes... Rats were caught in and about the sinks, and sold freely. The slot barrels were raked, and bread crusts were fished out, to be dried in the sun and eaten.&quot; Most of the accounts of decent food in the prisons came from early on in the war and that's for a few reasons. One was that the food shortages hadn't really hit yet, and when they did hit it was most definitely in the South first, and and they had it the hardest. Another reason was that at the beginning of the war there were just less prisoners, and as the war went on the prisons began to fill up. In the first couple of years of fighting there were actually periodic prisoner exchanges to keep down the prison population, and in July 1862 an agreement was signed that made it so prisoners on both sides would only be held for a few days before being paroled back to their own lines. But by midsummer of 1863 the whole thing had kind of broken down and the exchanges stopped happening as often now this of course led to and this is when instead of proper prisons meant both North and South built a number of what were essentially fenced in tent cities. Two of the most infamous were New York's Elmira prison, nicknamed Hellmira, and Georgia's Camp Sumter better known as Andersonville. At Elmira prison they opened before they were truly ready even though it was built to only house 4,000. Many slept outside with no blankets and in some accounts no clothing at all. This of course became a real problem when New York's winter hit, hundreds of men froze to death but at least for &quot;We entered the cookhouse by wards [of 200 or 240 Bread and meat was served in the morning, bread and soup in the evening... Each man was obliged to furnish a vessel in which to carry his soup In winter on very cold mornings what a sight we were starting to the cookhouse for our food... We went in... old rags and strings and long unkept hair, dirt... cheekbones projecting for there was very little of us except skin and bones.&quot; And as winter went on the rations dwindled and so eventually the Confederate prisoners were reduced to eating the rats that infested the prison. And when a rat would make an appearance &quot;such a hurrah and such a chase and such a volley of stones. You would have thought it was ourBbattalion of Sharpshooters in a charge.&quot; Now down in Andersonville they didn't have which is frankly just as bad in many ways and instead of being three times capacity the Andersonville prison was often at Now Andersonville is definitely the most because even at the best of times life in there was hellacious. &quot;Our rations consisted of ten ounces of hardtack, full of worms; two ounces of salt beef, half a pint of beef soup and half a pint of boiled rice. At one time our bread ration was cut off, and half a pint of mush made of spoiled cornmeal substituted. One of the men on one occasion picked one hundred and fifty worms out of three rations of this meal. The rations were not sufficient to sustain life.&quot; And as I said this was during the best of times. Really the best time that you were going to have as a prisoner at Andersonville was when you first entered because the guards would set up what they called the suler shop where you could buy different goods including different quality foods. And it was a way to give food to the new prisoners but more so it was a way for the the guards to enrich themselves because many of these prisoners from the north they had Greenbacks or Union money as opposed to the Confederate money which was all but worthless at this point, it was only going to get worse, so it was the guard's chance to get some of that quality money. &quot;Its goods were sold at incredible prices - a teaspoon full of salt, 25 cents; a small biscuit, 50 cents; turnips, 25 cents each; sweet potatoes, 25 cents each; and other things in proportion. The famished skeletons then consult their money then their stomachs, and And just so you can get an idea of how much these things well that's about $5 in today's money. Now life at Andersonville was truly intolerable. Most people were missing much of their clothing, some people had no clothing, there was constant thievery and violence from the other inmates in the camp, and there was of course brutal violence from the Confederates who were guarding the camp. They actually set up a perimeter about 10 feet away from the stockade that surrounded the camp, they called it the Dead Line and if you pass that the guards would shoot you right then and there. Everyone was filthy, everyone had disease, and there was very, very little shelter. Most people dug out holes into the ground and just put some sticks or blankets over them. But when reading the diaries of the men who were imprisoned at Andersonville you really get a sense that they were focused on food much of the misery that they went through came from a lack of food and but this lack of food was not always out of malice but out of incompetence. See for much of the war the task of feeding the prisoners was part of the Quartermaster Department but in February of 1864 the Congress of the Confederacy changed that responsibility over to the Commissary Department but the Commissary Department was not ready to take on that responsibility, really for like five weeks and basically for that five weeks no food went out and even after that they were Now after the war Richard Winder, the officer in charge of feeding and sheltering everyone at the prison, claimed that there had been no disruption in rations and that the prisoners had received plenty of sweet potatoes plus a pound of meal, a pound of potatoes, and a pound of beef or half pound of bacon, and while that may sometimes have been true it was definitely never the whole truth. For that we need to look at the journals and diaries of the men who were in the prison. &quot;May 8th. Received a pound of bread today, the first we've three ounces of beef, and a bucket full of rice to be divided among ninety men. How we wretches enjoyed it! The bread was made of yellow meal and somewhat resembled fruit cake. The flies taking the place of the raisins.&quot; That was Michael Dougherty of the 13th Pennsylvania Cavalry and his regiment was was cornered during a battle, and 127 of them went down to Confederate prisons. 122 of them died at Andersonville and and four of them died at other prisons leaving Michael Dougherty to be and he cataloged everything that was taking place in a diary: violence from the guards violence from other inmates and a complete lack of food. &quot;The rice we receive is hardly fit to eat, because of so much handling and measuring. The men that have old tin cups are considered lucky. While others receive theirs on pieces of boards, and in bags made out of pant legs, and caps. Now imagine, if you can, the men eating that rice with a relish with their dirty black fingers so much for starvation in the 'Sunny South.' &quot; Now not having a tin cup might seem like a but you also had to have something to carry the liquid or vinegar which was really the only thing that was and if you didn't have a cup or anything you were holding that stuff in your hands. And even if you got your ingredients back to where you were at you still usually had to actually do the cooking, and it was not easy to cook at Andersonville because very, &quot;April 30th. They say we are going to get cooked We cook cakes on board boards and lay them out in the sun until the water dries out of them... May 1st. Sunday rations - cornmeal, rice May 2nd. Pint of cooked rice and a gill of molasses By that summer the state of their rations had really gone to pot under the Georgia sun. Their meat was basically always rotten as John L. Ransom recalled &quot;The ham given us today was rotten, with those nameless little white things crawling around through it.&quot; And their cornmeal was very often nothing more than corn cobs that had been ground up. People were constantly dying of starvation and disease and a lack of water. They only had one water source and it was a stream and it was brackish and muddy water and it was filthy because everything took place in that one stream. That's where people were bathing, that's where people So it's easy to see how Andersonville became the most infamous of the Civil War prisons. There were a lot of prisons that were terrible but Andersonville usually gets pride of place, and part of that is because that was the one that was most publicized following the war. And it's also one of the only prisons where the people in charge or one of the people in charge was actually punished. It was the Commandant Henry Wirz who was hanged in 1865, but no matter where you were, North or South, life as a POW during the American Civil War was absolutely hell. And that is why I am sure glad I was able to find that mention of making pie rather than making rations that would would probably make me sick. Anyway let's try that mock apple pie. And here we are apple pie without apples from the American Civil War. So what's cool is that while this was baking it actually smelled like an apple pie was baking in So I sliced into it as you can see. I mean it holds together, The crust actually kind of puffed up, the potato crust, Here we go. Wow! Okay. The texture is not that of of apple pie. It's- more like pumpkin pie or you know 'cus it's like mashed up, but by golly if it doesn't taste like apple pie, that's kind of weird. I mean it's not exactly like apple pie but almost, It's got to be that tartaric acid. I mean that's the only ingredient in there that I can see- I don't know that's that's kind of magical. Now I want to make the one that the Ritz company put out during the Depression because I bet it's even better with Ritz crackers in there kind of add that buttery flavor. That's mighty, mighty good. So thank you again for getting the channel to 2.5 million Thanks for watching me every Tuesday, or whenever you do tune in. Tune in, how old am I? Tuning. Anyway I'll see you next time on Tasting History. I'm eating more of this pie, it's actually really, really good. That is so weird. :)