Summer in (grumbling) Home to the country's weighing 2,000 pounds... (bellowing) ...the American bison. Badlands is the perfect stage One of the greatest heavyweight (grumbling) The reigning champion, Only winners get Today he loses his crown. (bellows) The old bull retreats. (grumbling) He'll wait a year To regain his strength, In the Badlands, it comes He's just got to find it. (grumbling) Badlands National Park, 244,000 acres split The rocky Badlands themselves, carved out of the ground Beyond them, Home to the icons This land has a long to the indigenous peoples It's the current of the Oglala Lakota tribe. For 12,000 years, people but prairie dogs have (chirping) A female black-tailed lives on the grasslands in a family group In spring it's time for her After mating, and collects nesting material. In doing so, she becomes Her constant gardening In the sprawling sea of grass, the prairie dog town is drawing in species (barking) ...including predators. (chirp) Prairie dogs are the perfect The female's quest could be over (chirping) She's completely oblivious However, the prairie dog (chirping) Her neighbors are (distant chirping) (chirping) Each prairie dog town comes with its own (chirping) It's one of the most complex with specific calls (chirping) The coyote is spotted, (chirping) He literally has With the threat gone, they give (yipping) ...a jump-yip. (yipping) (chirp) The key to thriving is looking out for each other. Badlands became The name, an homage Hundreds of years before they named this land The rocky features are formed by a process that began as layer upon layer Colored bands show and an ancient ocean floor. Each has left its mark like They may look hostile to life, it's the ideal place (bleats) For bighorn sheep, the Badlands of protective fortress The flock is with no apparent This female was born with all But she still has to learn She's encouraged even though one false move could send her tumbling (bleating) Just weeks after birth, these lambs already sure-footed, agile (grunt) (grunt) But the Badlands Despite their confidence, Suddenly this nursery She's fallen down a canyon and has a serious wound Badlands rock shears The lamb's inexperience shows. She's going down where (distant bleating) (grunts) As the sun goes down... (bleats) ...she finds herself alone. (bleats) (echoing bleating) This canyon is (grumbles) (lamb cries) Her cries for help or ring the dinner bell. (howling) The lamb survives the night. Two million bighorns some of America's but like many animals, Today, Badlands National Park for around 250 bighorns. While rocky peaks offer safety, down on the open prairie, an unusual spring ritual Male sharp-tailed grouse in a group called a lek. They're here for The best movers will win (chirping) The park's flat land provide the perfect ...where the hens They scout prospective partners With the stage set, (warbling) Performers rapidly and shake their tail feathers. (chirping) Each defends his own spot. (chirping) If a dancer doesn't (chirping) ...they settle it (chirping) It's no holds barred. (chirping) (chirping) Despite their best efforts, the boys haven't but she doesn't have (chirping) The dance floor closes (birds singing) Competitors will be back every to prove their worth in Badlands National Park It's America's largest where short grass from the west meets long grass from the east. Home to a greater number than any other type of prairie. But for herbivores in the park, (bison groans) For the battle-weary bison, this is what he's been To regain his strength, he needs nutrient-rich The grass may be short, but thanks to the prairie dogs, There's plenty to go around... (chirping) ...so he's given the all-clear. (chirps) As they graze they leave the plants in making them higher in protein The bison can relax but there's no rest for This female's burrow has been It takes a lot of effort Her hard work doesn't just it also has a large impact She recycles the nutrients nourishing more plants and Distracted, she doesn't The first burrowing owl He's flown all the way to Badlands National Park Now he's got to find a home (squawk) Despite his name, this burrowing owl Why make your own when (chirping) The old prairie dog burrow Good views of the grasslands. With its own guard dogs Prime real estate secured, he hopes his mate Until then he has ...and wait some more. (squawk) A few days after the male his mate arrives from Mexico. Somewhat fashionably late. She's got high expectations, and immediately inspects It's just the right size He showers her with Nothing impresses more than a big, juicy beetle. Soon the pair will breed, and the female will lay While some travel to create new life in the park, others come to see the life Badlands National Park contains one of the world's Relics of sabertooth cats, the ancient ancestors have been found here. A Lakota legend tells longer than 100 bison. Two brothers attacked her Her death throes Her remains created And they shift and erode Eventually, wind and rain will Storms are rare here, (thunder) Even a short downpour can (rumbling) On the northern side one of only is revitalized by rainfall. (crickets chirping) A thirsty traveler A cliff swallow. He and many others have flown all the way from South America. (cacophony of chirping) He's spent the last few days with his mate, for the perfect (chirping) It's got to check shade from the midday sun, hard for predators to reach, and near water. Once the females give approval, the colony launches (chirping) Rains aren't only good they also wash sediment Mud, made from half a million is the perfect The land where sabertooth cats is now cement for the swallows. (chirping) But with each nest they've got a lot The rain that helps also revitalized the grassland. (chirp) Life around the prairie dog A herd of bison arrive to graze on the never-ending supply But bison now occupy of their historical range. For a long time, they were Until, in 1963, into what is now Less than 60 years later, ...to over 1,000 strong. Today, Badlands National Park Nearly half of all have been lost. They are the most endangered (grumbling) The park is an island of hope. As bison repopulate Each one, on average, produces and gallons of urine every day. A natural fertilizer packed like nitrogen, phosphorus, all amazing for growing plants. (chirp) The prairie dog the bison help the grasslands. A key relationship that When habitats are protected, (grumbling) (chirping) The bison have left The burrowing owl is Dung is good for the grass, and the smell helps hide He's not the only one of this natural resource. So does a rainbow For him, dung is He's not eaten in months. All he has to do is get to it without being squashed But it's the burrowing owl the beetle should be still on the hunt for presents. The beetle would make Time for a swift exit. (buzzing) He's not the most (buzzing) But he's found what (flies buzzing) He's not alone. Amongst the grunting bison it's love at first sight. After a quick meal, The love bugs burrow Working together, they create Some will act as a pantry, but this lower chamber will Deep inside The dung will provide to see their offspring (grumbling) If it wasn't for the beetles, the grasslands would be which wouldn't be much fun or their new visitors. (chirping) Badlands is visited by close who come here to hike, and rest in Now is the best time to be (chirping) It's pupping season. Curious pups are popping up all Mom has her hands full. She's spent the last few weeks in the safety of her burrow. It's time to introduce them (grumbling) Bison must look so odd. Closer to home, there's their jealous aunt. As mom tidies her burrow, dirt is promptly kicked (squeaking) It's a family feud that's The aunt doesn't like Tempers are fraying. It's a literal turf war. (chirping) The new mom has had enough. There is no misreading (chirping) That should be the end of it. But this dog won't let it lie. (shrieking) Mom has to teach With teeth and claws they are formidable fighters. Serious injuries can occur. (squeaking) (squeaking) Family. Can't live with 'em, Nobody messes with (yipping) All clear. The war is over. The old bull's but while everyone is building he remains, sadly, alone. (grumbling) He finds his own source a scratching post. Park rangers have installed perfect to target (grunt) But his peace is short-lived. (thunder) Weather can change quickly even in the summer. (thunder) Storms bring vital rain that has begun to dry out (thunder) But for some, (thunder) Like the Badlands, the cliff Water brought them here, but Floodwater has caused The colony is gone. There's barely a sign But swallows are industrious. (cacophony of chirping) Just days later, Their nests rebuilt Once confined to the cliff the expansion of has extended (chirping) (chirping) The pair are now living (chirping) (chirping) The swallows have a great view. Even if they are a little (chirping) The bridge is now a swallow (chirping) (chirping) But it's no utopia. A bull snake has (chirping) (chirping) But he's not here for them. (chirping) The bull snake will eat if given the chance. (chirping) There's little the birds (chirping) (chirping) But he's looking for the swallows' eggs. The cliff swallow can take her or flee. (chirping) (chirping) This early into it's simply not worth the risk. (chirping) The pair still has time (chirping) (chirping) The burrowing owls in the safety of their burrow. As they emerge, (screeching) The first chick is eager It's very hungry. (screeching) Feeding one chick is hard work. Feeding two is a challenge. (screeching) Mom guards, Dad hunts. It's relentless. Now there's three chicks. (screeching) Five chicks. (screeching) And imagine his surprise to find seven mouths to feed. (screeching) In a week, Just when he thinks a latecomer arrives, dwarfed by his siblings. He's got some serious (screeching) If he's gonna get fed, (screech) Try as he might, he can't get (screeching) Late-hatching chicks don't (screeching) But in the insect-rich there's plenty to eat. (screeching) He finally gets fed. Revitalized, On your marks, get set, go. (screeching) The little burrowing owl the meaning of a food coma. (grumbling) It's been a year, finally returns With the help of and its prairie dogs, The herd gathers fought in the very heart Contenders arrive. Old enemies reunite. (grumbling) This could be the old bull's (grumbling) ...and to leave a dynasty. (thunder) (bellowing) At last year's rut, the old But the park has brought him (grumbling) He's ready to rut. (grunt) (grumbling) Each female must be won over, then shielded from rival males. (bellowing) First, a roll in the dust (grunt) (grunt) It's his day of reckoning. (grumbling) 2,000 pounds of muscle (grunting) (rocks clattering) (grunting) (snort) But not just one fight. (grunting) Fight... after fight... after fight. And so far, so good. But a new arrival is bigger. This is everything the old bull There's no backing down now. (bellowing) Challenge accepted. (bellowing) The pair are evenly matched, but the old bull (bellowing) The rival concedes... and retreats. (grumbling) The old bull claims (bellowing) It's his glory day. His blood will run Protected, his offspring and build on the rising number The reintroduction of bison is a success story to witness. It cements a new chapter The Badlands are Amongst the fossils, (chirping) Icons now returned, the guardians of to maintain this wilderness (yipping)