Cars are spying on drivers privacy advocates and aren't doing enough to collect. Gigabytes of personal data. They know who's driving it, amounts of data. You have a car that is world. Any of those could be targeted by The Mozilla Foundation, browser, call cars a They say they're the least A powerful statement given reputation these days. You know the data collection and car companies have long. So, you know, is the Can we put any of this back that we live now? And our of independence and privacy They're a place that we can coerced. Every one of the 25 brands privacy not included as a whole the worst the Nissan's privacy policy is boggling, creepy, scary, policy we have ever read, And we here at Privacy Not privacy policies. And yet, overall, Nissan Tesla. Making money off data monetization has been albeit with mixed results. There's a big divide, right? Companies are focused on data, trying to monetize And what consumers want is In late April, two senators Commission to investigate deceiving customers about practices. Other agencies level are probing the A car collects two types of Technical data is itself, battery, engine, Personal is about the car. Nearly anything you do it can store fingerprints features. Medical assistance services, purchases, passwords, your the codes to your garage Cars can record tons of where, when, and how you park. It's of great parties, including That they could collect your genetic information, your life, your sexual activity, immigration status. You know, things like that sensitive information. And again, you know, who it? All we know is that to a privacy policy that And the question then them, you know, requiring collecting information from point A to point B car is supposed to do. That data is funneled into computers. Cars also modems. This, of course, use the internet for work kids in the back seat want trip. But as you drive broadcasting a Wi-Fi number. Rear facing cameras facing cameras are common, vehicles have cameras all mirrors for lane keeping Even some inside pointed at used for the driver Do you want the OEM photo of you or your And some of these are Some of these are infrared systems. It kind of varies what they what they decided Um, I mean, even the pull inside your garage, inside of your garage and, home. There's data there wouldn't want people having inside my garage. Tesla's Sentry Mode, which parked, uses the cameras record suspicious activity. Connecting a smartphone source of data and the new range of connections. Your smartphone maker might management policy, but the you plug it into might not. So who is interested in doing with it? It depends cops or criminals. First, let's talk about I think it started with good Right. So cars again, a lot many of these features were Right. And then I think and realized, oh my gosh, data. Mckinsey, the consultancy, vehicle data monetization $750 billion by 2030. Some data is collected for OEMs themselves or their provide data to their also in recent years, tried services directly to throughout the life of the And so that's when the happen, in which data more because they wanted to things to you, and less and strictly necessary for the the vehicle. Data gets sold to or advertising and research companies and others. Of the 25 brands the in 2023, 84% shared their sold it. That includes data extremely granular data on like heart rate and driver Data can be sold to the ones the driver has a 56% of companies in the with government or law request, which seems to be that can include someone I don't want law enforcement cars, data or data about my camera without like a to access that. And the fact that, you could access it with informal request is, was, We have a process and warrant or a wiretap. Um, for phones, there's not procedures around setting you know, Mac addresses and serial numbers. But you that. And you combine that reader on the edge of your of these monitoring city. You can understand everyone in your town is have, uh, license plate Finally, crime. We helped a few dealerships of years recovering realized that the consumer documents, they can test connected account, and then This has become a spare you locate the car, you take it. Privacy for cars, a data company says the data a car criminals than the car breaches have been the most against automotive decade. There are also A new plan out today would Apply to car makers to try concerns that connected the internet could enable like the ability to track or off remotely. Problems continue after the Four out of five cars are data still on them. And in fact, one of the privacy today is that consent. My wife bought a with one of those buttons get into an accident, it emergency services. The problem is you are more data than they need I think we can all agree important. I mean, more their lives every year. I feel at times that their you know, holding us leverage point for that has nothing to do, to do with with safety. What Amico was talking about Another is when companies without any consent at all, lawsuits on those grounds, General Motors and collected and distributed ultimately made its way to He found it hard to secure providers, and when he did, It doesn't help that a car A friend or partner's worst up your insurance rate, GM the complaints and has no time. It did sever ties and Verisk and LexisNexis Risk 2024. As the Mozilla report available in the US today problematic data, policy or Cnbc reached out to every list GM, Nissan, Toyota, with statements saying they data protection very all applicable laws. Nissan said previous misunderstood or practices, and Stellantis report contained multiple They say it contains all never pointed any of those You know, because we we changes. If you can prove wrong and they've not done The major trade group Innovation shared a privacy car technology enables life allows automakers to and pinpoint resolutions by No, your car isn't spying Companies will tell you, disclosed in our privacy takes an average of, you for each manufacturer to Very often you need a know, graduate degree. Amico said that privacy for less than 12% of that their cars will share Even when they do, they shares data that is warranty or in case of some service. As cars have been tech, the case for data weakened. In 2021, McKinsey market estimate by about A little bit of exaggeration which is why, you know, over time. And it's very I'm sure you may remember 90s about, you know, You know, I'm not a math next data point is going to line. So reality is that, companies are focused on wrong thing, right? They're focused on a pie as companies are finding monetize it. And there's more and more make it shrink even faster. National security concerns to begin an inquiry into connected cars in February Ftc Chair Lina Khan has several automakers for falsely claiming to require before turning over government agencies. The Federal Communication rules around vehicle data domestic abuse in April. The California Privacy in 2020, chose to review case in 2023. You know, I'm constantly best car to buy? And unfortunately, right if you're obsessed about And let's be honest, people when shopping for a car. They have to look at what available to them, what fact that, you know, you after you've bought it privacy, you know? So the the big problem is good options. I mean, it could contact, you know, lobby for what would be that's important. That's consumers that actually if you push for a strong, privacy law that will First of all, if you're returning your car to a Delete your data if you they do it for you, but written evidence. They actually have done it little bit in the world of I hate to tell you.