Both sides had assumed that the war would be had been neither and was instead humiliating. and officers involved was as shocking as the 4700 that this war would be far more difficult than was needed. Both armies began to reorganize and come. With Richmond and Washington D.C. only 108 theatre would decide the war. In 1862, the Union best chance to win the war quickly, thanks to one video in our series on the American Civil War, we made by the Union that ensured the conflict would The Confederate Army Despite his victory at Bull Run, General Joseph had grave concerns about the Confederate military. and was acutely aware of the Confederacy's capacity . About 20% of the regular army's and the Confederacy's soldiers were eager to limited. All Confederate soldiers were supposed same equipment and uniforms as the pre-war the rebels were never able to produce enough standard. Instead, they used a hodge-podge of 1841 Harpers Ferry rifled musket was the late and lacking. The only military Despite his best efforts, Johnston had no structure, as the states wanted some control over seceded as "sovereign and independent republics" Therefore, the Confederate military was divided each expected to defend its assigned states and in the resources Virginia would volunteer, with The Confederate Government but that experience was limited to defending no experience governing. He refused to delegate governmental effectiveness. Throughout the war, resignations. It also ruined his relationship with and Davis frequently gave orders to individual command. The cabinet was filled with unqualified state's interests. For example, Treasury Secretary but South Carolina wanted to control that competent advisor was Judah Benjamin . the men in government were undistinguished at best at worst. Davis' government was so inept that "defend the Confederacy." These facts might explain why Davis's first US President Abraham Lincoln declared southern actually able to enforce the blockade, southern away from dealing in contraband. The cotton supplying 77% of Britain's and 90% of France's in the power of King Cotton and wanted Davis announced a complete cotton embargo. The forcing them to intervene and end the Federal recognition and military support. However, many cotton for this eventuality, and the economic intervention. However, it severely limited The Union Prepares Lincoln had less experience than Davis, but he highly talented cabinet to compensate. Commanding war would be long and planned accordingly. On May completely sealing off the Southern coast. 80,000 then seize rebel strongholds along the Mississippi be squeezed to death as his forces moved inland. criticism President Abraham Lincoln echoed. Once Bull Run proved Scott correct, Lincoln troops, and a new field general was needed . Major Virginia had demonstrated the ability that earned so Scott summoned him to Washington. Lauded in the on July 26 to roaring crowds, hopeful that he command, Scott asked McClellan to propose his own McClellan reproposed Scott's plan with more the Mississippi, McClellan added thrusts into the Tennessee, and the Red River . Critical to the rebels at all points simultaneously. While building and equipping such a force required success. As chief engineer, then vice-president of a logistical genius and set to work reforming supply centers, convinced his railway colleagues expanded arms manufacture. Constant drills, better the loose formations that had panicked at Bull the Potomac. Additionally, the whole military be composed of three-year volunteers. Strategy commander had operational freedom. Each military equipped to prewar army standards with the latest Accepting his limited usefulness, Scott retired Six Months Idle on the Potomac the main army while administering the entire war do it all." Indeed, he'd successfully reorganized command structure, recruitment, and supply chain was doing. Other than occasional patrols verifying Centerville, his army was completely idle. This the Potomac alone cost $600,000 a day to maintain. of Federal forces during 1861 prompted Congress Lincoln's administration while demanding action. resources and "trust the process." The stress and McClellan justified himself, firstly, by saying simultaneous offensive on all fronts, and most couldn't support the planned amphibious operations Carlos Buell weren't ready to move. The only that he was severely overmatched. His intelligence While his agents were adept at spycatching and were standard detective work, they were utterly They constantly misidentified fortifications 70,000 soldiers behind simple breastworks were fortifications, which he then passed onto Lincoln to justify recruiting more soldiers. However, Meticulous to the point of perfectionism, he preparations had been made. However, preparing hopelessly lost in endlessly perfecting his army. McClellan finally outlined plans to his innermost outflank Johnston and seize Richmond on January wasn't told and, on January 27, ordered all Union Washington's birthday on February 22nd. When to advance against Johnston immediately. McClellan was impossible and that his Urbanna plan was Relieved, Lincoln relented. However, by March Lincoln called McClellan's subordinates to the if they were confident in it. They answered McClellan had never named commanders for the them, so Lincoln appointed them himself. only to learn that Johnston had sniffed out Rappahannok . Consequently, Northern newspapers were fake . McClellan had been duped, wasting Confederate enlistments had run out in February . Peninsula instead and sailed for Fort Monroe to the Shenandoah Valley with 50,000 troops on relieved McClellan as General of the Armies on The Peninsula Campaign (Finally) take Richmond, and then attack Johnston's rear. to leave Fort Monroe until all his 121,500 to redeploy while dispatching Stonewall Jackson forward on April 4, meeting the first Confederate Major General John Magruder spread his 11,000 tricking McClellan into believing he faced 100,000 Yorktown. Magruder let McClellan believe the night. Johnston planned a Fabian withdrawal up got strung out. On the 5th, his rearguard fought On the 7th, a Federal attempt to intercept the Eltham's Landing. The scuttling of ironclad CSS visiting Fort Monroe to observe the campaign, turned back by batteries on Drewry's Bluff . Richmond's defences . McClellan had moved as Johnston expected. However, McClellan was now he outnumbered Johnston 5-3. Again, he settled screaming for all available reinforcements to be detachments from Hanover Court House to open the it had been diverted to counter Jackson, The Battle of Seven Pines Johnston realized that McClellan, bedridden with supply bases than advancing. He'd left one in exposed positions, and Johnston intended to launch diversions on the north bank while James Federals on the south bank from three directions, Davis' earlier meddling bore fruit. Longstreet them without telling Johnston. Other written officers didn't know or ignored that Longstreet the plan fell apart before it began. but Longstreet took the wrong road , delaying waiting for Longstreet to initiate the battle, an impatient DH Hill finally attacked the Union's Acoustic shadows meant neither commanding general 10,000 rebels smashed through Union skirmishers General Silas Casey sent out desperate pleas arrive and Casey's division was overwhelmed By 14:30 the Union troops fell back to redoubts no reports of action. Johnston was out to the acoustic shadows he still heard nothing. officers marched to the sound of guns, directed that Johnston learned what was happening after he was supposed to be leading. Despite the Union numbers began to tell, and a counterattack wound in the arm and shrapnel to the chest while never took control of the battle. The battle individual Union regiments attempted night attacks left their positions. Fighting resumed the next and the Confederates retreated by noon, having Lee Takes Command &amp; the Battle of Oak Grove remaining offensive pretense. Seeing his beloved He refused to move until his siege guns, and he could bombard the rebels out of Richmond. took command from the incapacitated Johnston. reprieve to recall Jackson from the Valley, plan of Virginia into the Army of Northern Virginia. He so he'd use boldness instead. First Johnston public bravado was hollow. Thus, while they could certainly intimidate him away from cavalry under Jeb Stuart to reconnoitre the days , completely circling the Union army and army had redeployed south of the Chickahominey. the supply line to White House Landing on the that McClellan wouldn't attack again, and he could most of his army against one Union corp. He White House Landing while Magruder's division army would overwhelm the exposed Union troops. McClellan realized the risk and abandoned On June 25th, McClellan finally advanced on guns. At 08:00, three brigades moved towards the successfully pushed through the rebel defences, opening a window for a successful counterattack reinforcements arrived. McClellan, managing panicked and ordered a withdrawal at 10:30 so he at 12:00, realized that they'd been winning the forward again at 13:00. By nightfall, they'd Federal army came to taking Richmond until 1864. The next morning, Jackson was supposed to near Mechanicsville, with AP and DH Hill that attack never came . During the Valley as Foot Cavalry for their rapid advances and greatest defeat-in-detail campaigns in military for nearly 5 months and were utterly exhausted. he moved too slowly and never engaged. Instead, attacked toward Mechanicsville at 15:00. The prepared defenses behind Beaver Dam Creek artillery. Lee arrived, realized the situation, the attack. Union reinforcements stabilized the did eventually arrive as the fighting wound but 1484 casualties, inflicting just 361. realized that 5th Corp's flank was exposed and Swamp near Gaines' Mill. Despite calls from his with overwhelming force, which would have easily Magruder's force alone outnumbered the Army of the On June 27th, Lee again concentrated 57,000 men The plan was essentially the same as the previous pinned the left flank, Jackson and DH Hill would attack from the rear. Again, Jackson was late. expecting to link up with Jackson but instead had moved, he fell back. Acoustic shadows kept Hill's advance across Beaver Dam Creek encountered primary defences along Boatswain's Swamp. The attack. Meanwhile, McClellan became convinced full retreat. Jackson's lead division reached Longstreet's diversionary attack to rescue Hill, calls for a counterattack, McClellan refused to finally arrived at 19:00, having gotten lost on Hill, and assaulted the Union left while first piecemeal, then in large waves. At retreated across the Chickahominy under cover McClellan's last nerve shattered. Magruder's in only his mind, that he was surrounded and about and he panicked. McClellan ordered a full retreat gunboats, telegraphing Secretary of War Edwin plainly that I owe no thanks to you or any other sacrifice this Army," though the Signal Office attack again to cut the Federal retreat, but close to nightfall. McClellan's logistical genius train south through the chokepoints in White Oak McClellan left for Harrison's Landing and played no further part in the campaign a defensive position on Malvern Hill. The army regrouped around Savage's Station, its out the retreat . Union morale plummeted once they retreating and many wounded had to be left behind. to pursue and destroy the Federal army completely. link up with Magruder, and launch a powerful Federals turn and fight long enough for the rest Skirmishing began around 09:00, but tapered off Confederates and gradually withdrew. Jackson and a garbled attack order came across as orders Macgruder, hesitant and outnumbered, failed Savage's Station devolved into an artillery duel with the only notable occurrence being the bombarding the Union position. The Union White Oak Swamp and Glendale that night. destroy the Union army and again resolved Longstreet would attack the Federal left to cut in a double envelopment. However, Jackson the verge of mental and physical collapse he milled about on the north side rather than find ordered an artillery bombardment at 14:00, then and Hill waited for Jackson's attack until 16:00, successfully pierced the Union's line but were darkness ended the inconclusive, bloody fighting. During the night, the Federals completed their cleared sightlines for the 250 cannons supporting trees and vegetation between the forest and hill. last attack. An artillery barrage would suppress the assault. Jackson was to attack Malvern Hill followed, fanning out across the line as they would simply be overwhelmed if they didn't break. opened fire at 13:00. By 14:30, all Confederate were delayed and separated from each other by ready to attack until 15:30, well after the smoke waves, but were bloodily repelled, with no unit Malvern Hill wasn't a tenable position due to abandoned, with the entire army huddling Campaign was over, and with it all confidence Lee's boldness had intimidated him into defeat, 20,204. Morale soared in the Confederacy, and Lee the war. In the next video in our series on the so make sure you are subscribed and have pressed subscribing, commenting, and sharing - it releasing weekly patron and YouTube member ranks via the link in the description or button learn about our schedule, get early access and much more. This is the Kings and Generals