This first talk tonight will be A lot of people have got the impression that prayer As it were, going to God That is a very limited Prayer is not just one instrument playing, There are many different instruments We'll be dealing with three of them thanksgiving, praise, and worship. These are all essential parts of prayer. If you just have formed the habit of without learning how to integrate with it I'm afraid many times you'll return from your Because God has laid down certain conditions Let me say right at the beginning, without thanksgiving and praise. God has laid that down I was talking about a couple of years ago he's about my age, he's been His name is well-known in this country, And, he heard me say that you cannot get near He said: 'In all the years I've been a And it revolutionized his prayer life. So we're dealing with things tonight that if you want a fruitful Let me just give you a little way of between these three things: Each of them is a way of approaching God But each of them relates us to God This is very simplistic. But just take it for what it's worth. By thanksgiving, By praise, And by worship, So thanksgiving relates us Praise relates us to the greatness of God. Worship, which is the highest activity of relates us to the holiness of God. Let me talk for the rest of this particular session I'd like to read one verse It would be rather interesting, which is very similar to the authorized version, Some of you probably have the If you do, you will notice a very Let me read it first because it brings out the point Therefore, since we are receiving a let us have grace, by which we may serve God Now where the New King James says: the NIV says: 'Let us be thankful.' I want to point out to you why each of them Because, in Greek, to have grace, is to say, 'Thank you.' I don't know whether any of you have any But the standard Greek word Which is directly related So what I want to point out to you is between grace and thankfulness. An unthankful person You cannot be unthankful There are three modern languages that Probably familiar to some of you. French: grace. 'Grace a Dieu' means 'thanks to God.' It's exactly the word 'grace'. It's spelled exactly the same way Italian: the word for 'thank you' is Spanish: gracias. So you see those three romance languages, all retain the direct connection What I want to emphasize, is when we are unthankful, You cannot be in the grace of God You cannot separate thankfulness So we can say, 'Let us be thankful,' and we're saying the same thing. You cannot have grace I wonder if you'd like to say that with me? I want to emphasize it. Let me say it once We cannot have grace 'We cannot have grace Praise God! Now let's take some statements about Mainly from the epistles of Paul. Starting with Colossians 3:15-17. 'And let the peace of God rule in your hearts, to which also you were called in one body, That's not a suggestion. Be thankful. Then he goes on. 'Let the word of Christ teaching and admonishing one another in singing with grace in your hearts,' 'and whatever you do in word or deed, giving thanks to God the Father So we are never allowed to do anything The two ways we are to do everything we do and 'giving thanks to God'. And that sets a real wonderful boundary. Young people sometimes come to me and say: To attend some place of entertainment I said: 'If you can go there and do and giving thanks to God by Him, And if you can't, Because that sets the limits Whatever you do in word or deed, giving thanks to Him. So thanks is not an option, And then in Ephesians 5:18, Paul speaks about what it means And he says: 'Do not be drunk with wine, in which is It's remarkable how much the church has and ignored the positive. I mean, everybody knows you But how many know you have to be filled What's the result of The next verse tells us: 'Speaking to one another in psalms singing and making melody What's the final overflow? 'giving thanks always for all things in the Name of our Lord Jesus Christ.' So again, when you are full of the Holy Spirit, You can measure the fullness of the Spirit how much time do you spend When you cease to give God thanks, That's just one sure indication. And then again in 1 Thessalonians 5:16-18. Some of the shortest verses in the 1 Thessalonians 5:16-18: 'Rejoice always...' Very simple to say, isn't it? It takes more grace to do it. 'Pray without ceasing.' Never come to the end of praying. You don't have to pray all the time, I think it was said of Smith Wigglesworth... that he never prayed but he never went half That's a good picture of what it means And then we come to the third of these 'In everything, give thanks, for this is What is the will of God in Christ Jesus? To give thanks in everything. So if you are not giving thanks, Do you understand? I've dealt with many Christian workers doing the right job, And it wasn't because of the place or the job. to be continually thankful. So remember: the moment you cease to be Not necessarily for what you're doing, And then Philippians 4:6, Philippians 4:6 'Be anxious for nothing, but in everything by prayer and supplication, let your request be made known to God.' Never bring a request Years ago, I read and was tremendously I always remember his It says: 'In everything And he took out those three words 'I am persuaded God does everything by prayer And I believe that really is a basic truth. But Paul says here: Don't bring a request Whatever request you have, And then we'll consider this question that The best place to look there is in Psalm 100, Talking about coming into the house of God 'Enter into His gates with thanksgiving, Be thankful to Him, Notice there are two stages The first is through the gates. The gates give you admission to the courts. And the courts give you access But you can't get into them except by the His gates with thanksgiving, The first step of access The second, which we'll deal with I am totally convinced that a person who has no close access to God. such a person comes the prescribed way, Some of you may pray at times Quite possibly, the reason is you're not You can stand outside the courts and He'll hear you But you don't have access to Him unless He's laid that down Then you say: (Of course you wouldn't say 'Well, I really don't have anything Things are going wrong, my life is all in Why should I thank God?' Well, the psalmist has given you three He says: 'Be thankful to Him, 'For the LORD is good, His mercy is and His truth endures to all generations.' Those three things are always true. No matter how you feel. These things never change. The Lord is always good. His truth endures to all generations. So you have three permanent, Don't focus on your feelings. Focus on these eternal, unchanging aspects And, you will be thanking God ceaselessly. We all have so much to thank God for. Now in Luke 17, but there's the story of the ten lepers You remember, as lepers, they were not allowed They had to continually shout: warning everybody to stay out of their way But it says they lifted up their voice and shouted to Jesus and said, And Jesus gave them a very simple reply. He said: Now, a person who was had to present himself to the priest to receive a So by telling them to go Jesus was saying, 'On the way you'll be healed. By the time you get there, the priest will be able That, you see, is faith. Sometimes we're healed as we go. If we just stand still and say Well, all of them were cleansed of leprosy. But only one, who was a Samaritan, not a Jew, And he fell down on his face and thanked Him. Jesus said: 'Were there not ten cleansed? Why is it only this foreigner that's come back And then He said to the man: 'Go in peace.' The language is very important, it doesn't All of them, all ten were cleansed. But only the one who returned Each of them had a physical healing. But only the one who came back received the eternal spiritual healing And he was the only one So you see, without thanksgiving, Then another very important fact is that it's a key that unlocks I'll give you just one very the incident in John 6 You remember that Jesus had a crowd of And the only resources He had was the lunch But He said: 'Make the multitudes sit down, And this is what transpired And Jesus took the loaves, He distributed them to His disciples, and the disciples to those sitting down, as much as they wanted. So when they were filled, He said to His disciples: 'Gather up the fragments I want to point out to you He didn't ask God to do anything. All He did was thank God And John apparently must have been very describing something that followed, we won't go into the background of this, Other boats came from Tiberius, after the Lord had given thanks. So it was impressed upon John that the but simply by giving thanks. And I really believe that many times we simply because we don't release it A little later on in the 11th chapter of John, before the tomb of Lazarus, He didn't pray a long prayer. 'Father, I thank you that you always hear Me.' That's all He said. And then He spoke to Lazarus. I really believe that unless we cultivate the habit we are missing out on much I don't find, generally speaking, that Most of the really powerful prayers in the Bible I think of Moses' prayer for Miriam... when she had been smitten with leprosy He said: 'LORD, heal her.' I think if we mix more thanksgiving our petitions would be shorter Now we need to look at the rather dark which is the opposite of being thankful, And it has a great deal to say I'll just point out to you what to me are In Romans 1, Paul, in a most masterly way, from the knowledge of God into the most And Romans 1 ends with one of the most of human degradation, We could ask ourselves: And, the answer is given It says there: Although they knew God, they did not Those are the first two into that dark pit What are the two steps? They didn't glorify Him as God I want to tell you that every time we're starting on a It's very dangerous. Don't even start on the path. Because it's hard to turn around Again, in 2 Timothy 3, It's interesting to compare Romans 1 is what I would call 2 Timothy 3 What is humanity going to be like in the And here we have this picture, But know this, that in the last days, What will bring the perilous times? The decline of human character. 'for men will be lovers of themselves,' That's the root of the whole problem. 'lovers of money, boasters, proud, blasphemers, You see where unthankfulness Next to the unholy. I have to say, You cannot be holy and unthankful. If you are thankful, What's the opposite of being thankful? What kind of conduct is the opposite? You could give a lot of different words Or, in more modern English, 'complaining'. I want to suggest to you, basically, it's going to be either positive or negative. There's very little in words which is neutral. So if we are not thankful, we will almost certainly Don't by any means give any indication, but how many of you live One lady raised her hand, I think you'll agree it's miserable. Don't be that kind of a person. Let's look at what Paul says in He's warning Christians against falling that Israel fell into He says in verse 7: 'Do not become Verse 8: Verse 9: And then he says in verse 10: 'Let us not murmur, and were destroyed by the destroyer.' There are many examples of this, Israel became discouraged or impatient They began to murmur against God God sent fiery serpents amongst them, and they began to die. So amongst other things, because it exposes you to fiery serpents. Not necessarily physical serpents. But all sorts of poison enters you So we're really faced with these two being thankful or being murmurers. Make up your mind, set your will: I'm going to find the scriptural basis for I'm going to find the scriptural reasons And I'm going to practice thanking God This is the second in a series of short talks... on the themes of Our first talk was on the theme of and this talk will be on the second theme, I suggested in the first talk, that these three activities of the human spirit: thanksgiving, praise, and worship, enable us to relate to three different aspects By thanksgiving, All the kind, good things He does for us. By praise, we acknowledge God's greatness. It's our appropriate response And then by worship, Now in this second talk, In the light of what I've said about I think it's appropriate to begin 'Great is the LORD, and greatly to be praised, So our acknowledgment of God's greatness In other words, our praise should be in Which means, really, We can never exhaust the power Then we saw when we were speaking about that thanksgiving is the first step or stage Praise is the second stage. After we've been through thanksgiving, Let me suggest to you that both have a very important psychological effect. If we're coming to God with great petitions, the more we thank God the easier it is to believe Him But if we don't come with thanksgiving, we don't So let's look now in Psalm 100 again, 'Enter into His gates with thanksgiving, Be thankful to Him, and bless His name.' And then it's not by any means wearisome for thanking and praising God: 'For the LORD is good, His mercy is everlasting, If you have your Bible open at any version why don't we all say it together 'For the LORD is good, His mercy is everlasting, Now let's say: Thank you, Lord. - [Audience] Thank you, Lord. - Amen. Now there's another beautiful picture that This is one of these glorious passages This is a description of the city of God. The city to which we have right of access It gives a very beautiful picture of this city 'Violence shall no longer be heard in your land, neither wasting nor destruction We can come to a place where violence and destruction but they have no reality And then, how do we get there? 'But you shall call your walls salvation, The wall that surrounds the presence of God But all the gates have one title, In other words, if you want to get in what's the gate you have to go through? Praise, that's right. No praise, no access. It's the only way into Now I want to take the rest of this seven scriptural facts about praise. There are many more, And they will help to build your faith. First of all, let's turn to Psalm 22:3. Which are words addressed to the Lord. My version says: 'But You are holy But the Hebrew word that's translated 'inhabit' As a matter of fact, when people in Israel we answer in Hebrew: That's the standard Hebrew word for Although it's perfectly correct to say it also means 'You who What kind of seat does God sit on? So there are versions that say: 'You are holy So when we praise God, as there's a very 'We are building a throne for Him to come It's appropriate that as a king But He's very gracious, He will come amongst us until we give Him the throne of our praise. From now on, whenever you come together offering Jesus an appropriate throne You are holy who are enthroned on the And then in another psalm, Psalm 106:47. Praise is one main purpose for which God Incidentally, let me point The Hebrew name is 'tehillim', That's the title of the book. And if you study the Bible, And its title is 'Praises'. So in a way, that's one major element in If you find it difficult to praise God, I suggest you take a lot of time If you can, read them out loud Just read them and say: It was a prayer given by the Holy Spirit I believe you'll find after a little while, You'll cultivate the habit of praise. Anyhow, let's look 'Save us, o LORD our God, to give thanks to Your Name, Notice again the same order: So when we praise God, we triumph. A triumph in the ancient culture of Rome was not the winning of a victory. It was the celebration And so when we really praise God, We're celebrating the fact We join His triumph. Paul said in 2 Corinthians 2:14, Thanks be to God, who always leads us You see, a triumphal procession is the in which the victorious general was led in a chariot led by a white horse. And all the people were on the sidewalks And all his captives, the enemies whom he had That's the picture. Where do we belong? We're not being led in chains behind him. We're not even on the sidewalk Where are we? In the chariot, that's right. How do we get into the chariot? By praising Him, that's right. That's the step into the chariot. Then again in Psalm 30. It's significant how many of these passages Psalm 30. Verse 11-12. Just about 13 years ago, I lost my first wife, I want to say that Psalm 11 is really true. 'You have turned for me You have put off my sackcloth Now, the next verse gives us the purpose. 'To the end that my glory may sing praise to you, o LORD my God, Notice when God takes off the sackcloth He does it for a purpose. 'To the end that our glory Now, what is our glory? Don't speculate because I'll give you an answer You've got to put two passages Psalm 16:9. Where the psalmist says: 'Therefore my heart is glad... and my glory rejoices, Again, my glory. Now, a lot of different versions but in Acts 2:26, the apostle Peter, But he interprets the word 'glory'. So you have there, 'Therefore my heart rejoiced So what is your glory? Do you know why it's your glory? To praise Him, that's right. It's the supreme member It's our glory. And in a certain sense, any use of your Because He put it there And it is your glory Then we'll turn to Isaiah 61:3. Again, this is a message for those It was through this verse that the Lord delivered me from a spirit of depression. 'To console those who mourn in Zion, the oil of joy for mourning, the garment And that's what God delivered me from, Notice the garment of praise So if you don't want to be depressed. And you don't want satan to come to you Put on the garment of praise I think I have time Many, many years ago when I was pastoring there were two Russian Jewish sisters who had and had met the Lord They used to come and visit my first wife and me I tell you, they were noisier as Russian Baptists I mean, they knew how to praise the Lord. Well, we were there just having a wonderful time There was a ring at the door, I went down there, She was leading a man by the hand. She said: 'This is my husband. Will you pray for him?' Well, in those days, I mean, I didn't know what to do with them I had no idea what to do. That's all I could think of. We were really making a noise. This man came up to me carefully 'I don't like this, too much noise. God inspired my answer. 'It's the devil that doesn't like the noise Now you've got two options. If you go now, the devil will go with you. If you stay, And he said: About ten minutes later 'It's gone. I felt it leave my throat.' I'll never forget that of how praise embarrasses the devil much more So if you're tempted to be put on the garment of praise I know it works In Psalm 33:1, the psalmist says: 'Praise is beautiful for the upright.' It's a beautiful garment of your spirit. Then in Jeremiah 33:11, we have another aspect of praise or thanksgiving, It's speaking about the restoration And it speaks about what will be heard There's a beautiful, modern Hebrew song 'The voice of joy and the voice of gladness, and the voice of the bride, the voice of those for the Lord is good, for his Notice two of the three reasons are there. 'And of those who will bring the sacrifice I think other versions say It's important to understand It costs you something, And the time that's most important Do not let your feelings dictate to you. It's the Word of God Even if it goes absolutely Hebrews 13 brings this out. Hebrews 13:15-16. 'Therefore by Him, (Jesus) let us continually offer that is the fruit of our lips How much should we Continually, never stop. 'But do not forget to do good, and to share, So praise or thanksgiving is a sacrifice. And it's most acceptable to God When everything in the situation seems to that's the time to praise God the most, And then Psalm 8:2. Praise is a spiritual weapon. This is one of my favorite scriptures, Somehow it's difficult for me to preach 'Out of the mouths of babes and infants, You,' 'have ordained strength that You may silence So God has enemies. And He has one particular enemy, Who's that? And He says there is a way I was preaching in Lausanne in Switzerland I got to this verse, I understand French, And in French it says: I've never forgotten that, He says: 'Shut up.' When? When we praise God. Why do we need to silence the devil? What is he doing all the time, He's accusing us. You say to God: God says: 'Because I've given you Now, in Psalm 8:2, it says But again, the New Testament Turn to Matthew 21:16. Matthew 21:16. We have to read verse 15. This is in the last week 'But when the chief priests and scribes and the children crying out in the temple they were indignant, and said to Him, And Jesus said to them,' &quot;Yes, have you never read, 'Out of the mouth you have perfected praise'?&quot; So where the psalmist said, Jesus said: What does that tell us? The ordained strength of God's people And it doesn't matter how weak we are, So the psalmist chooses the example and says even they, when they praise God, To me, it's a wonderful, exciting joy Then again, the seventh in this list Praise prepares the way Let's look, first of all, in Psalm 50. Are you noticing how many times we're Psalm 50, the closing verse, God is speaking. 'Whoever offers praise glorifies me, and to him who orders his conduct aright, But you'll notice that in my version the It's put in by the translators. There is another legitimate way 'To him who offers praise, he prepares a way He prepares a way for the manifestation Now there's some beautiful For instance, in 2 Chronicles 20. When Jehoshaphat was king of Judah, a vast army came marching against him And he knew that he did not have the But he proclaimed a fast. And as they were fasting and praying, and told them what to do. He said: 'You just have to You don't have to fight in this battle, And Jehoshaphat said: 'Believe in the Lord God, So the next day they set out. We're reading from verse 21 'And when Jehoshaphat had he appointed those and who should praise the beauty of holiness and were saying: 'Praise the LORD, You notice the same reason comes up again? 'Now when they began to sing the LORD sent ambushes against the people who had come against Judah, And if you read the rest of the story, They didn't have to use The weapon of praise obtained And their enemies turned against each other And when they came to the battlefield, All they had to do What a tremendous picture And then let's look at poor Jonah Right in the middle You know the story, he's in the belly of And he prays quite a long while. Jonah 2:2. 'Out of the belly of Sheol I cried, For you cast me into the deep,' etc. And he goes on praying for seven verses The 8th verse, he starts to thank God, Just read that last verse. Verse 9. 'But I will sacrifice to you with That really was a sacrifice. When you're in the belly of a fish, to start thanking God But it was worth it, it paid off. 'I will pay what I have vowed. So the LORD spoke to the fish When did the Lord speak to the fish? When he began to praise And then a beautiful example in the book Paul had got into the He'd cast out a demon And the whole city And Paul and Silas were badly beaten They were at midnight. A brother of mine says they might have Silas could have said to Paul: Everything was going all right until you But that isn't what they did. Acts 16:25. 'But at midnight, (the darkest hour), were praying and singing hymns to God, They'd never had people like that 'Suddenly there was a great earthquake, so that and immediately all the doors were opened, What released the earthquake? I mean, it was a supernatural earthquake It wasn't just What precipitated that earthquake? Praise, that's right. So the one who offers praise prepares a Now let me briefly close with a little list. All the references First of all, when to praise God? every day, forever and ever, It leaves no doubt. Now, how to praise God? With the whole heart, with understanding, lifting the hands, as an evening sacrifice, The scripture references are given. Who is to praise God? Psalm 148 gives a list of 29 different And then, if you're still in doubt, That leaves out nothing. But there's just one class of people Who's that? So you know your problem, don't you? If you're not praising the Lord, You're not physically dead, This is the third and the last on the theme of thanksgiving, And the theme of this talk Let me just remind you how I sought to distinguish By thanksgiving, By praise, And by worship, I personally believe that worship is the highest Praise and thanksgiving are primarily utterances. We speak them or we sing them, But worship is not This is very important But so far as I know, every word that's used either in the Hebrew of the Old Testament describes an attitude of the body. Worship is not really an utterance, Of course, not just an attitude But an attitude There are certain specific attitudes which, First of all, When Moses came from his interview back to his people in Egypt with the news and brought this message to the elders, They worshiped. It wasn't an utterance. And then, often, it's not just the head Accompanying that many times It's an interesting fact that the Hebrew is directly related Hebrew is a very, what would I say?, It doesn't really indulge in abstracts. So 'thank you' And when we stretch out our hands to God, I believe we're also stretching out our that He wants to impart to us. And then, kneeling down is a very I appreciate the liturgical churches which have Having been brought up I used to know all the times I want to say that I believe kneeling is a I think some Charismatics and some I've been in some meetings where God has and I've suggested that And we've had some of our most powerful when we're all before God Of course, I realize it can be simply a religious but don't let that deprive you And then worship is also, it means falling prostrate on your face I always smile because I hear lots of 'Let angels prostrate fall.' And most of the people that sing that would It's good enough for angels but don't ask us, There are not many of the great men in the at some time or another, end up with their And this is perhaps Generally speaking, when Ruth and I are we seek to prepare I won't say we always do this, we will end up prostrate on our faces A kind of acknowledging: We have nothing to give, we have no strength, unless it comes from You. I love those words of John Bunyan. 'He that is down need fear no fall. He that is low, no pride. He that is humble ever shall When you've got to the floor, You don't need to fear falling after that. It's a safe position I'd like to turn to an example which I believe gives us which is found And in this scene here, Isaiah has a vision This has always been a very meaningful Because the first time And I didn't know In fact, I didn't know there were But, the first time I went, the message At that time I was a soldier and I was living just like soldiers live in the We won't read it here tonight. 'But when Isaiah saw the Lord in His glory, For I am a man of unclean lips, dwelling When I heard those words, 'A man of unclean lips, dwelling in I said, no one has ever described you And from then on, Even though I really didn't understand Anyhow, let's read the first three verses. 'In the year that King Uzziah died, I, high and lifted up, and the train of His Above it stood Seraphim.' (Or seraphs.) Now, the word 'seraph' is directly Seraphs are fiery creatures, And then they're described: Each one had six wings. With two he covered his face, with two he And one cried to another and said: the whole earth is full of his glory.' I've always believed that those three holys Holy is the Father, holy is the Son, But if you picture that scene for a moment in your concept of the relationship Praise is an utterance. So they were praising the Lord and declaring But that wasn't the first thing The first thing he saw Those seraphs had six wings. With the first two they covered their face. What's that? That's an attitude, what is it? It's worship. Worship is the face covered in reverence It is the body covered in reverence Then they had two remaining wings, If you take flying as service, then you find the proportion is I believe that's a correct proportion. I believe that in our ministry to the Lord, we should give twice as much time and Furthermore, I believe that service I don't believe that we should ever become without having first related I believe there would be a complete difference in On the other hand, merely to worship Let's look at the words of Jesus in when Satan had tempted Him Jesus answered with a quotation 'Then Jesus said to Satan,' 'Away with you, Satan! For it is written, and Him only you shall serve.&quot; You notice the order again, But, worship should always It's important to see this. There was a time when there was very People would have a Sunday morning service but in actual fact It was praise, it was proclamation, Now in the last two decades probably, or little more, And in some ways, it's fashionable You'll be in some congregations where they will, And they can become rather proud But if people simply take worship as a without it being translated into service, People that just have a wonderful Sunday and go home and live for themselves the rest of 'Thou shalt worship the Lord thy God, These two should never be separated. Service should never be separated from worship. Now, there's a beautiful passage in Psalm which I believe beautifully depicts Psalm 95, the first two verses depict A lot louder It says: 'O come let us sing to the LORD, Shouting means shouting. It doesn't mean singing loud, 'Let us come before His Let us shout joyfully to Him with psalms.' Notice again the two stages of access: Remember what we said earlier, there's no Then, the next three verses give us the The Bible is very logical. It doesn't just ask us to thank and You remember in Psalm 100, 'The LORD is good. His mercy is everlasting. Those are three unchanging And here in verses 3-5, 'For the LORD is the great God, You remember that I said by praise, So here, the word 'greatness' is used twice. The Lord is the great God, And, we acknowledge His greatness by loud, And then we see Him as the mighty Creator, 'In His hand are the deep places of the earth. The sea is His, for He made it, So we come to Him thanking him, praising Him But that's only the access. In verse 6, So praise and thanksgiving are really the access, And you'll notice immediately we Verse 6: 'O come let us worship and bow down. We've passed from utterance to attitude. We began with praise and thanksgiving, Where Christians just stop with praise and the goal which God has, which is worship. 'O come let us worship and bow down. Let us kneel before the LORD our maker.' Why? Verse 7: 'For He is our God.' How do we, above all other ways, By worshiping, because worship belongs So when we worship Him, by that very act 'And we are the people of His pasture, So it's appropriate for us, That acknowledges the relationship and God as our Now it's a strange thing, if you look in the verse doesn't end there. It seems there's a strange division because... the first part of the next sentence See that? It says: 'Today, if you will hear His voice, Why is that particular little section, why is that in the section of worship? A wonderful secret, because it's when we And when we worship, We've done all the shouting and the praising, The end, in a sense, is a position of reverence We're quiet, we're still. Somebody said Charismatics are so afraid But there comes a time of silence. Who knows how long that silence might be? Would we be willing to give God 10 Most churches would think that was totally I'm not saying it has to be 10 minutes. But, in that attitude, we are open Ruth and I regularly take time, almost Ruth is our worship leader Many, many times when we come into that and our spirits are quiet before God, We have had so much direction, warning, I am very cautious I don't necessarily believe them. But generally speaking, if a prophetic utterance and it fits in with the atmosphere, I am usually ready to believe But if we never come into that place of give God an opportunity So just notice that progression: That brings us into the presence of God. We praise Him for the reasons given here. But when we've come into His presence, It's no longer utterance, The attitude that's appropriate And in that attitude, Now let's turn to the words of Jesus John 4, these are familiar words Jesus is talking to the Without going into the background, 'But the hour is coming, and now is will worship the Father in spirit and truth, for the Father is seeking That's a remarkable statement, Almighty God is seeking for those But, we have to worship Him according to Then Jesus goes on in the next verse: 'God is spirit, and those who worship Him So in worship, I believe it's our spirit See, according to the Bible, man consists I think our soul is very active but when it comes to worship, then it's our spirit And we must worship Him Without the Holy Spirit, I think those of you who have had an experience it changes You have a new dimension. That doesn't make us perfect or superior to other that makes us capable of appreciating But it also says 'in truth'. I really believe it's extremely important Just to illustrate this, I want to take a Leviticus is the Old Testament book What's the Leviticus of the Hebrews, that's right. In connection with the sacrifices, the Lord gives directions as to what may be offered In verses 1 and 2, He demands that a shall be always offered Let's look at it. 'When anyone offers a grain offering to and he shall pour oil on it...' (Which is a type of the Holy Spirit.) 'and put frankincense on it. He shall bring it to Aaron's sons, the priests, his handful of fine flour And the priest shall burn it as a a sweet aroma to the LORD.' Now, there were various There was flour, there was oil. Only a portion of those were burned, Frankincense, in the Old Testament, And our offerings given to God also serve But there's one part of our offering that that's the frankincense, How important it is to remember we do not at any time, but only to the Lord. Now, frankincense is a kind of aromatic And when it's burned, it gives It has no real beauty in itself, And that's what God wants, that's what our a beautiful, aromatic fragrance On the other hand, there's one thing that If you look in verse 11 'No grain offering which you bring to the LORD for you shall burn no leaven nor any honey Honey, before it's in the fire, But when it's burned And what the Lord is saying is, 'Don't you offer Offer to me frankincense because the more But don't offer to me worship that, when you're Think of that. Ask yourself, 'Am I putting honey on my Am I telling God sweet things that I won't live out, One final very vivid picture of worship is This is a very frank passage, like the Paul says: 'Do you not know that he who is going For the two, God says, But he who is joined to the We've got to be frank The first example is physical, But right together with that, Paul speaks about the one who is In other words, there's two kinds of union: What is worship? [Audience]: Union That's what it is. It's the only way our spirits And out of that union, Worship is what makes See that? So when you think about worship, think about your