- [Petter] How can an aircraft descend to six feet, almost a full mile away from the airport without the pilots noticing it? That's the mystery I will explain - [Radio Altimeter] 100, 50, 40, 30, 20, 10. - The story I'm gonna tell you today by the French authorities, the BEA. Now the reason I've chosen rather than a final report, is because this story highlights that I wanna share with you guys. The incident took place on a flight between Stockholm-Arlanda in Sweden, and Paris Charles de Gaulle Airport in France. The aircraft that was being flown that was operated by a Maltese Airline And it was operating on something called an ACMI wet lease agreement An ACMI wet lease agreement basically means that the company that is leasing out the aircraft, in this case, Airhub Airlines is providing basically the entire operation to the lessee company. So the tickets that the would have been with Norwegian Air Shuttle but the company that was actually And in the media report that was issued that wasn't made very clear. Anyway, the two pilots that was going by Airhub Airlines and they started by going through the pre-flight preparation, and fuel calculations. Now we don't know the age because as I mentioned before, but what we do know is that the weather There was no problems forecasted en-route and at their destination airport, Paris, with some scattered clouds at 1,500 feet, but also mentioning of some temporary rain showers and cumulonimbus activity around the airport. Those types of clouds and rain showers and not normally of a huge concern to pilots, as long as they're not frequent because they tend to be They tend to move away very quickly and even if they don't, as long as it's only rain, we can just fly straight through them. So the pilots wouldn't But in this case, they're actually going When the pilots had finished they went and they briefed their cabin crew and then they walked They decided that the captain for the first leg and the first officer, something that we normally do of exposure to both roles during any given day. The captain checked the technical status of the aircraft which was found And then he started doing as the first officer did the The cabin crew also finished and then they started boarding all of the passengers. And once that was done, The pilots finished up their pre-flight preparation and then requested push and start clearance At this point, there was two pilots, on board the aircraft. The aircraft taxied out normally that's 11:30 local time, with callsign Red Nose 4311 took off for Runway 08 in Stockholm-Arlanda and started climbing towards The flight proceeded completely normally close to Amsterdam, the captain handed over to start to prepare, set up into Paris Charles de Gaulle Airport. The first thing he did was to switch for Charles de Gaulle in order to listen in Now the information This is Charles de Gaulle Information Oscar recorded at time 10:50 UTC. Runway in use for landing transition level seven zero. Wind: 280 degrees, 10 knots. Visibility: 10 kilometres, broken clouds temperature 19, dew point 14 and QNH 1001. This was a quite typical ATIS message at their destination aerodrome. The only real threat was the mentioning But what I want you to focus on QNH 1001. This is a very important value because In the United States, But we need to enter that value in order for them to show us the correct altitude When aircraft are flying at higher altitudes, we all set the same pressure reference, which is 1013.25 hectoPascals. And the reason we're doing that we are less interested in knowing exactly and we're more interested in making sure are using the same pressure reference between each individual aircraft. Because the air pressure it will be impossible for air traffic control So we will set the same. But, of course, as we are getting closer it becomes much more important above obstacles and above our landing airport. And that's when we need which in this case, was 1,001 hectoPascals. Now the way that we, pilots, is by air traffic control giving it to us down to an altitude later on. But we typically preset the expected value so that it'll be easier to just switch over Now the other thing that we need is the type of approach Remember, the ATIS said that they could prepare for an RNP approach for Runway 27 Right? Well, RNP stands for and these approaches are also sometimes And they're flown using the aircraft's GPS system together with an internal that can notify the crew in case In other words, an RNP approach can be flown without any airport-based navigational aids. These approaches are becoming because there are enabling smaller airports that might not be able to be installed to have a very accurate On bigger airports the RNP approaches are typically used are either not working or under maintenance. And that's exactly what Now, because RNP approaches rather than external beams, it's very important that all are properly set up prior to Now like I mentioned before, of this type of approach has that monitors the navigational accuracy of the GPS system. And on the approach segment, And if the GPS system cannot maintain that, So we will stop the approach if that happens. Now that's just the horizontal navigation part of these type of approaches. The vertical path is built up at given RNAV points, following typically In order for this type of approach that the correct barometric pressure So the captain now briefed his first officer The minimum descent altitude was 752 feet. That's about 250 feet above the ground, but the airline policy was So the value that they actually put The reason that the airline is because of a technicality that we have to follow when flying non-precision approaches. When we're flying a precision approach we fly down to minima that is referred If we reach the decision height we will then execute the go-around we are allowed to momentarily sink This will happen every time So from the time that we decide to go around to when the aircraft actually starts climbing, takes a few seconds and you lose a couple of feet when doing so. Now when flying a non-precision approach because of the less exact nature with flying non-precision approaches, the minimum descent altitude. So on a precision approach, on a non-precision approach, we have an MDA, But because the airlines want the pilots the same procedure, on to the MDA. That way, when the pilots hear they can execute the go-around exactly And even though the aircraft continues to descend a little bit, Anyway, when the captain had completed And after that, the first officer They received several descent clearances and changed frequency multiple times with Charles de Gaulle approach control. Now here is where things But before I get into the details of that, from my sponsor who makes it possible Before we move on, let me introduce you from the founder of the Discovery Channel. Curiosity Stream offers you thousands however you stream video, Content spans nature, history, and my favourite category, science. You get access to all of that plus original titles Curiosity Stream is definitely the most value-for-money streaming service I've ever come across. Right now I'm watching a great new series and fellow YouTuber Dianna Cowern. You might know her as Physics Girl. This show was recommended to me by Patrick, one of you guys and it explores complex concepts with a fun and engaging twist. Since you're a follower of this channel, with the promo code Mentourpilot to save 25% off. That's just $14.99 for the whole year So support me by supporting my sponsor and start enjoying the world's top documentaries and nonfictional series today. Now back to the video. At time 11:32:24, the first officer with Charles de Gaulle approach control. The controller responded Red Nose 4311, bonjour. The first officer responded with 6,000 feet Did you catch that? The pressure that they got but the pressure that they've now gotten, the official pressure from the controller was 1011 which is the incorrect pressure. From the read back, you can hear about this value, that's probably It's likely that the pilots had preset 1001 And now they had to change it up But they didn't question it. And it's possible that he thought the ATIS report earlier on. In any case, two minutes later, the aircraft to descend to 5,000 feet, It's hard to know why this error occurred. But these things happen from time to time. People have a tendency to turn numbers around. So for example, QNH 1020 becomes QNH 1002. And in this case, the call sign Red Nose 4311 had 11 at the end of it, But why is this such a big deal? Well, like I mentioned before, is absolutely crucial for the pilots One hectoPascal represent about 28 feet. So if you input an error of 10 hectoPascals, And remember, the minimum descent altitude is only 360 feet above ground. One minute after the controller has cleared Red Nose 43111 he calls up an EasyJet aircraft on the approach queue. He tells the EasyJet aircraft to continue to a waypoint called Papa Golf 650 and to descend to 5,000 feet using QNH 1011. But the difference here is that the clearance, they said, &quot;We'll continue to Papa Golf 650, descending 5,000 feet, QNH 1001.&quot; So they actually read back the correct QNH even though the approach controller This difference in read back was not picked up neither by the approach controller Another minute later, the same controller cleared an Air France crew to descend to 5,000 feet, That was read back by the Air France crew but, unfortunately, that whole message so our pilots on the Red Nose 4311 Red Nose 4311 now received They start to configure their aircraft, they select flaps one, flaps two the aircraft reaches its final descent point and the aircraft starts following the pre-programmed descent path. As they started their descent, could see in the cockpit was about 4,900 feet, but the actual altitude the aircraft They were 14.3 nautical miles away from the runway and with a speed of about 180 knots. Another factor that we need to mention here a large rain cloud had moved in with quite moderate rain inside of it. This meant that the crew and they had no visual reference Because of this, the first officer was reading out distances as they were descending down the approach. Our approach plates would give about where the aircraft should be altitude-wise And as the crew was doing this, They showed that they were exactly Here is where the vulnerabilities Because the crew had the it meant that the altitude and the altimeters for each of these distance checks they were doing. But, in reality, they were actually If this same error would have happened of the ILS glideslope beam So no matter what pressure setting they would have still locked on which would have brought them down In that case, if they would have done distance versus altitude checks, the error would have been shown very clearly. At 11:38:09, the aircraft is handed over The first officer calls in and the tower controller greets them with a surface wind of 260 degrees at 12 knots. From this point onwards, regarding the pressure setting. The aircraft is still descending through the cloud. But unbeknownst to the crew, to switch on the approach light system. This will further reduce the chance as they get closer. That might sound really strange. How could a tower controller forget to do this? But you have to remember And up until this point, the weather had been very good and This rain shower and this dense cloud which is where this aircraft now found itself. So are there no checks that the pilots that could have helped Yes, there actually is, but you have At time 11:38:44, the aircraft's and made a call out as it now sends That should normally happen And if that happens earlier than that, they are much lower than they should be. And it's a prompt to verify But in this case the pilots did not pick that up and from this point onwards the radial height was displayed on both pilots' The pilots continued and when they passed 1,000 feet and the radio altimeter called out- - They were completely stabilised. They had all of the flaps out, they had a speed of 139 knots everything looked completely normal. The only thing that was out of the ordinary was a lower than normal radial height but none of the pilots have picked that up. So the aircraft just continued to descend down its pre-programmed descent path, down towards its minima. But now, unusual things The two air traffic control towers in Charles de Gaulle Airport are equipped stands for minimum safe altitude warning. What this system basically does around the airport. Inside of this square, it has modelled and then it has applied a 300 feet safety margin on top of these obstacles. If the system feels that any aircraft to get into that safety zone it will issue a warning in the tower, calling beep, beep, terrain alert. At time 11:41:32, the first MSAW warning went off in the tower. The aircraft was then at an indicated altitude they were now flying with, But remember, that's over sea level. And in reality, that was a radar height that's 2.8 kilometres, The aircraft was still descending and that gave them a vertical speed Now the correct procedure in case of an MSAW warning advice them of the warning, and give them the correct QNH setting. That did not happen. Instead, nine seconds later, to an indicated altitude of 802 feet, that the pilots had set earlier. And since the pilots had not established the captain now decided The aircraft is now 102 feet above the ground at a distance of 1.2 nautical miles But remember how I told you the go-around, the aircraft continues Yeah, that's happening now as well. So as the pilots are taking the decision the autopilot in this case the aircraft continues to descend. And it is at this point that the tower controller, &quot;Red Nose 4311, I just had a terrain alert. The pilots did not hear They were likely too focused on the go-around Three seconds later, as the captain into the TOGA position, the aircraft arrives at its lowest indicated height that's 183 centimetres, than my full height, at a distance one and a half kilometre. That is incredibly low and it, mercifully, But this story is not finished yet. Remember, they're still not down on the ground. Now one thing that's curious here that they didn't get any type of GPWS warning, nor any radio altimeter call-outs, at those lower radial heights. Now, we won't know why that was the case. That's actually part of the investigation, once the final report is released has something to do called the terrain clearance floor. The way that this part of the is that it reduces the margin the closer you get to the active landing runway. And this is logical if you think about it, as you're coming in for landing. But the fact that this incident happened, could potentially be the reason Now when it comes to the lack that is indeed strange and we're gonna have to take the word of the pilots because sadly, the cockpit voice recorder was not to saved after this incident 10 seconds after the lowest radio height was recorded, the first officer called up the tower controller and advised him that they And the tower controller responded, Turn right heading 360 degrees Finally, the correct QNH value the first officer now read back, on QNH 1011, Red Nose 4311,&quot; just reading back the incorrectly set QNH that they already had set. And the tower controller So the aircraft just completed the turn to 5,000 feet, still on The autopilot was engaged and the crew started preparing At the same time, in the north tower the assistant controller in the south tower had noticed that the approach light He contacted his colleague, and told him about this. And when the north tower controller the approach light system he was replaced and the and a new tower assistant was called in. Meanwhile, the aircraft had been handed over to the approach controller for its next approach. Remember, the pilots are, at this point, that they had been part of. In their minds, they had just flown and then executed a normal go-around They had no idea how close At this point, the aircraft was already was the initial altitude And during the time they were receiving vectors, that was pertaining to the QNH setting. So there was no point from this point onward were sitting with the wrong QNH. Instead, the crew now found like they had been on the last approach, 300 feet below profile They were still inside of cloud at this point as they were once again handed over At time 11:53:40, the aircraft Runway 27 Right. And this time, the first officer called up that the approach lighting was actually activated. The tower controller confirmed this. Two minutes later, the next MSAW warning The tower controller who was now immediately called up the aircraft saying, &quot;Red Nose 4311, Once again, not following But at this point, the rain cloud and from the final approach path. So the aircraft broke through the clouds So the first officer responded, &quot;Red Nose 4311, we are on path Around this time, the flight data recorder and that the captain's side stick in order to pitch the aircraft back, a correct approach profile, if they just became visual, that they were low together with the PAPIs Eight seconds later, the flight directors because the flight directors that was much lower because At this point, the pilot also later testified one pink and one white, almost back on path here. Less than one minute later, landed safely on Runway 27 Right. The pilots taxied the aircraft And, unfortunately, they did not pull the cockpit voice recording. And that's likely because, at this point, what a serious incident As I mentioned before, this incident that we're gonna get even more details once the final report is released write some of the absolute that I've ever come across. The reason I decided to make this video was because of how well it was written there are actually some really that I wanna share with you The error that this crew experienced as QNH blunder error, of that was identified a few years back There are several great mitigation techniques against this error, and one of them is for the pilot monitoring on his or her primary flight display like the dispatch weather that they got This way, if they're getting a wildly different value from air traffic control they can challenge that by using Don't say confirm QNH with a value, there won't be any confirmation bias in there. Another thing that we tend to do was given to us, we tend to always ask That way, we can pick up In the Boeing, we also have an instrument a vertical situation display, that can pick up a faulty QNH value either below like a coffin, a too high QNH value set showing that we have a too low QNH value set, which has its own potential risks to it. But lastly, and probably the most important point I wanna get across with this video the communication that goes on between pilots and air traffic control and vice versa. If you come across a clearance that you don't recognise, query it, it's always better with one call too many The report also highlighted among air traffic control personnel and also the correct procedures Now if you wanna see a crazy story almost crashing into the seat twice, to binge on accidents If you wanna support the work then consider becoming part We have weekly hangouts or you can also buy yourself some merch. Have an absolutely fantastic day