(soft humming) (soft humming continues) - For me, something that is the foundation of all of the acting and that's the technique in a lot of therapy, a lot music training, and it's very Finding a way to be And it also lends itself for your psyche, within your own body, coming back to a neutral stance, coming back to an aligned, Your brain knows you're acting. Your brain knows it's not real. Your body doesn't. It brings you home. 'Cause sometimes when you're you can get pretty far out there. (soft music) My name's Lily Gladstone. (laughs) I think, most of the time I am from Browning, East Glacier, Montana from the Blackfeet Reservation and I'm a professional actress. Ooh Ooh - And now we're on my res. (honks) Oh, look at the clouds! Oh! Oh! Look at Chief Mountain right now. Oh, I'm home! I always kind of grew up with a certainty that this is what I'd because my dad always It's like this is what I was good at, this is what I loved to do. He just said it with such certainty and I was young enough Oh your nose is split too. Other than that, you don't look half bad. I feel like it's the kind of because I love it and I always kind of But it also has to love you, It also has to keep demanding 'Cause there've been several times where I've thought of walking 'Cause it's not easy, you're at the whims of what the work is. I mean, I expected if I was or if I wanted to pursue acting, I would be spending most or waiting tables or something like that. And really it was only that I supplemented cashiering. But most of my income since has been from acting, which is wild. (laughs) Acting is something that you really surrender a lot of your and wanna do it. And there've been periods of time where I haven't always but just the motion of every time I feel like it and I'm ready to walk away from it, then the big job calls, - Riley. - Holy (beep). I'm good at rising to occasion, I'm good at stepping into form, I'm good at meeting the process halfway, which is part of what working And then that was also reinforced by people from our community. So it's one of the big It's just the only place that (soft music) (soft singing) (soft singing) Spread out and just make who you're next. You can step a little bit towards me, AJ? - Yeah. Awesome. All right, good morning everybody. My name's Lily Gladstone, I grew up in Browning, in East Glacier and then moved to Seattle And I came back to Missoula, studied theater and left and I've just been bouncing doing different projects since then. So yeah, first thing in the morning, I'm still kind of stiff and tired. And one of the most important is being in touch with So you kind of start your day But the way that I work and the way that I was I think the arts in general individual experience. For me, one of the things is just the continual from my community. You know, Blackfeet community, and especially kids. Find yourself and circle again. A way that I sustained a love for me was helping teach it Not everybody who studies acting or takes an acting class but it does teach you on your own two feet, how how to articulate yourself It it gives you a sense of (foot stomps) - Who's that? (beep) (laughs) - We don't drink anymore, remember? - [Student 1] That's Get me a Coke then. - That was like 200% better. Both of you are doing a really good job trying to be respectful and get it correctly. I care less about the fact You know, that's incidental. I just care about what this friendship is and you found that really easily. That was really nice toward the end. On this next pass through, that are maybe not in the script, like. Indian youth, more than anybody need to feel that sense of My voice matters. Modern colonized society doesn't want us to stand especially in communities like Browning. (soft music) Stories are so central to our culture and our understanding of the world. I find myself constantly that I'm not really an actor, which in a way is a compliment. Here I am. I was born for this. Because I think a lot of who's a filmmaker, if if you're not somebody who's and you see somebody just You know, I think &quot;Certain Women&quot;, a lot of people had the a Montana Ranch hand that but that was very, very that I did every day for two months leading up to walking on set. That was a character I that had a very strong It's really hard doing non-verbal acting. When you're on cameras, you always have to be very, very present. You know when you're you're seeing the frame, you're seeing what's happening in it. Where I'm sitting, I'm seeing I'm seeing sound, I'm seeing this light, I'm hearing the clock ticking. There's a bunch of stuff in my view that I have to just space out. Acting is something where I've sacrificed a good period of my life, sacrificed any semblance of security. And that's the breaking point. I mean, it's almost but you have to be a little (claps) Good for that. I was expressing a little bit of anxiety about this rising star that I'm latched to, like and I'm kind of along for the ride. There's a sense of losing There's a sense of getting lost in it. And I already went (photographers shout) - [Photographer] Lily, straight ahead. Nope, right here, there it is. - [Photographer] Lily, - So we interviewed you last year for &quot;Certain Women&quot;. Yes. - I am super excited to be Sundance, Toronto, Sundance again, it's the best film festivals, Like &quot;Certain Women&quot; is, it's such a beautiful film it hit people who love film, it hit people who watch film So there was buzz around there was the promise some big nominations There was a lot of flashing cameras, there were a lot of red carpets. There were a lot of and it was ungrounding, So just inherently, you know that the audience has a perception of you and your work that is It's really none of your business how the audience takes your work. So I always find it really intriguing even though it's frustrating in some ways, especially when you're being and you become a marketable your awards, recognition, any all of that makes you part Really &quot;Killers of the Flower Moon&quot;, coming out I know is to a lot of people, 'cause not everybody I had auditioned for Ellen Lewis, Martin had gone through the process, COVID happened, I heard and then it had been long it didn't go my way, I'll let it go. Kind of one of those moments started trying to walk away It pulled me back in. On Molly Burkhart's birthday, even though they didn't know (beep). Teachers, we have a runner. I repeat teachers, we have a runner. Rarely do I find a native character that's allowed to just be (sighs) with wants, with fears, with without them saying something about basically a Western I feel like a lot of what is about having a strong is a good starting point. But it is the starting point, (soft music) (soft music continues) (sighs) I prefer the sound of an old wind song I prefer the sound of an old wind song Ooh Ooh Ooh (soft music) (clapperboard claps) (soft music) (soft music continues)