In today's chess video, I am going to show in the Traxler Counter Attack. Plus, I also have a really interesting So stay tuned till the end and keep watching Let's start with the opening. e4, e5, knight f3, knight c6, bishop c4, knight f6. We have the two knights defense on the board. White attacks this weak f7 square with his We ignore this threat and play bishop c5. As expected, white captures this pawn on f7 And then, we play the stunning move bishop to f2 check. From here, white has 3 options. He can either capture this bishop or he can I have already made a video covering all the tricks and Traps when the King captures on f2. You can watch that video by clicking on the In this video, I am going to show you all the main ideas and lines when king moves to e2 or f1. Let's take a look at e2 first. This is actually the worst move that white Why do I say so? It's because white is not capturing your bishop. Plus, you also get a tempo move by playing So that's definitely not a good move by white. Now if white captures your bishop or even be the same as I discussed in my first video. You've just got to attack with all your pieces. And in fact, you are in an even stronger position not taking this bishop right away. So it's clear that king e2 gives black a very Okay, Now let's go back and see what happens This is actually the best move for white in Now this knight is attacking our queen so We have 2 undefended pieces at the moment. White can capture any of them. Let's first captures rook. After this, we will play pawn to D5. The idea is to open up this diagonal for our this knight so we can have his knight trapped We are threatening his bishop so he can take If he takes with his bishop, then he is gone. Let me show you how. After bishop takes, we play this beautiful queen is trapped. So capturing with the bishop is a bad move. A better option would be to take with his Our knight is under attack so we move it to From here, white has a few options. Let's look at it one by one. He can play something like h3 or bishop to our bishop. Let's say he plays h3, then we will first then our plan will be to bring our other knight these pieces. As black, this should be a very good game Since there are lots of variations possible, the basic strategy when white plays h3 or Another move in this position would be to But then, it's knight G4 check. Whatever move white plays, we bring our queen Again, as you can see on screen, we have a we are way better than white. Going back, the most natural move in this In most games, this has been the move played His idea is to threaten this knight &amp; at the in case we attack with our bishop. We will go ahead and bring out our bishop. Queen escapes to a4 and it's a check. We will block with our knight, no point bringing out. If white decides to take our bishop like all about attacking this lonely king with it from here. Let's go back a move. In this position, instead of taking your bishop, you can simply place your queen on this open in big trouble. You can launch a discovered attack by moving your rook into the game and of course, you have your queen and 2 bishops to finish this king off. Even if he tries something like d captures our queen like this keeping it on the f file few moves from here. Going back, so those were the tricks when Now what if white decides to take our bishop We want to save our rook first so we move Now here, white cannot play any casual move like this to just develop his knight, because on the next move, we can play queen to c5, it's So in this position, he will have to protect This is the best move for white. Then again, like I showed you in the earlier Now if the bishop takes, then knight queen takes his knight, it's a check. We are threatening checkmate on the next move. He has no other option so he has to block Then after queen takes on D5, as you can see, Going back, in this position, if he takes King e1 is the best move but if he plays something no other option so he blocks with his pawn, black is totally winning from here. Going back, even if he plays the best move Then we can simply grab this knight with our It's very difficult for him to survive this Even if he tries to bring his queen into the Let's say, for example, he goes to d2, then we have so many attacking options and there is no chance white can save this game. In this position, if he tries to exchange the way and attack his queen with our rook. Queen g3 is the best move here. Then again, we play knight d4, attacking c2. If white tries something like bishop b3 trying always, this king is in trouble. The major problem for white is that all his and that's what you need to take advantage If you understand the overall strategy &amp; tactics a lethal opening for you. Okay, so It's puzzle time. But Before moving onto today's chess puzzle, because your ratings help me in planning the So if you genuinely liked this video, then Okay, so here's the puzzle. In this position, It's your turn and you need If you are able to find the solution to this Whoever gives the correct answer with the comment at the top so that everyone can see All the Best Guys! Let's see how many of you can solve this. Well, don't forget to watch the first part of this video which is showing up on your screen right And of course, don't forget to Subscribe and hit the bell. That's it guys, Thanks for watching &amp; I shall see you in my next video.