How to stop feeling not good enough. If I were to reflect on the that I've been healing from these past few years, it's this internal feeling It's this lack of self-worth, it's self-criticism, being really hard on myself, having high expectations on myself, comparing myself to others, just feeling smaller than others and not feeling like I'm as good enough as others. And a lot of other issues stem from That's something that I've for many, many years. Hi, what's up? My name is Aileen. Welcome back to Lavendaire. Today, I wanna talk about how to Like I mentioned, this is a big theme in my life and I'd like to shed some lights on it because I've done so much healing and so much work in this area. Before I get started on the tips, I just wanna remind you to Click that bell down below, so you're notified of all my new videos on personal growth and lifestyle design. Tip #1: to change your beliefs. You, for some reason, have been led to believe that you are not good enough and that's why you operate from that belief system that you're not good enough. That's kind of the first place you have to tackle. Let's change that belief. Because a belief is not fact-- it's simply just a belief. It's an opinion, right? It's not absolutely true that It's just something that you were led or taught to believe at some point in your life, so you can change it. The first place I like to start is changing your self talk. A lot of your insecurities and are entangled with that negative self-talk that happens in your head. The first step is to reflect and reset those negative things that you say to yourself. Stop being so mean to yourself. Stop being your own worst critic. This is really the time to start giving yourself positive compliments, positive At first, it's gonna feel really uncomfortable. It's gonna feel really fake because you don't believe it just yet. But you just have to because on the other side, you'll eventually truly start and you're gonna operate from a more An exercise I've shared in the past is to write down all the negative things that you typically tell yourself in your mind. Keep on your notes on your phone-- just a list of-- when a negative thought pops up, write it down. Go about your days--maybe for a week--do this. Jot down all the negative thoughts that you notice pop up in your mind. Write it down so that you become at least aware of the things that you're By the end of the week, you'll have a page of your and then you can start to cross each one out and then replace it with the positive thought that's kind of the opposite of the negative one. And then just start to repeat to yourself every single day. Do it like positive affirmations. Say those positive affirmations to yourself in front of a mirror. Do this. The more you do this, the faster you'll be able to ingrain it into your belief system because repetition truly is Another resource that I always love to share are my positive affirmation videos. That way you don't have to come up You can just listen to the video every single day. Try doing it for 21 days because that's enough time And by then, you'll like have those affirmations The more you memorize it, the more you repeat it. That's when it really just melts and it truly starts to become who you are and what you believe. Tip #2: be the person that you want to be. This is about changing your identity, recognizing that it's All you have to do is decide to be that person and then start to take actions and act like that person that you wanna be. It's actually something that we have so You don't have to stay the same person forever. You don't have to be the victim to You can choose to be like, "Hey, I choose to be the confident person." Again, it's one of those like, "Even if it might feel fake or And then, everything else will follow. I spoke at a conference recently and another one of the speakers was my friend Tim, and he shared this concept Humans typically operate from 'thinking' first, and then that leads to 'doing' and then that leads to 'being'. People typically think that in order to change, they have to move from 'thinking' to 'doing' and then to 'being.' Meaning: you have to think about changing and then you have to do those and then you eventually Although that is kind of the typical flow or what comes natural, what you want to instead flip it. It's possible to start to 'be' that person and from that state of 'being,' you then 'do' and then it becomes your thoughts. Essentially, you can choose and operate from a different state of being and from that state of like the actions and the thoughts. And that is much more powerful-- and I would say faster-- to make a change. To just be like, "I'm just gonna be this person.&quot; And then, everything else flows from there. Instead of, "Oh, let me think about it first. Let me see how to get there." An example of this would be choosing to be I made that video about how to be All it is is an energy that you embody-- that you are the main character. You have this confidence to do what you want and live your life. And you don't have to be shy because you are the main character. So that is an example of like changing your identity to be something else. And then everything else flows from there. Look how cute Togi is. He loves to lay on top of the couch like a cat. I swear he was a cat in his past life. Look at him. He went to lay on that side now. Seriously, he didn't wanna be in my video, Togi Bear. Tip #3: to do some shadow work. Reflect deeply on where your self-worth This can include journaling, which is probably my favorite way to do this deep reflection. But you can also do it in meditation or it might happen as you go about life where things trigger you and in your head of why you don't feel good enough. But the kind of questions you wanna "Who/what taught me that I wasn't good enough?" "When did I start to believe this?" "Who gave me this idea?" "When did it start to become a "When did I honestly believe that that was true?" "Why did I begin to believe that it was true?" Maybe there was a spark that made you consider this like an event, something someone said to you. And then, maybe there was a chain of events where that belief was somehow kind of ingrained or hammered into you for some reason-- whether it's a toxic parent or life circumstances. There are so many different ways and each person is unique in their story. But this is the place where all of us All of us have trauma that we have to heal from. I don't think any person So healing is truly a lifelong journey. I believe you heal your wounds in cycles and you kind of come back to but kind of in a different form. For example, with my self worth journey, there were things that I had to heal from I've talked about that in a In the beginning, healing from You're avoiding it. It's so uncomfortable. Any mention of this person/relationship just And then you know, each time you heal, it's kind of like you are breaking down the layers of that pain and those wounds. Even though I'm still working on my self worth, I'm still healing, it's still a journey, but it feels lighter and You'll come back around and something will trigger "Oh my gosh, I still have to heal this aspect." Or like, "Oh, this is something I didn't notice." So be gentle with yourself, be patient. It's a process. We're all going through this in our own way, and that's why I always You never know what someone else So just be kind and compassionate to everyone, including yourself, most importantly yourself. If you want an actionable exercise definitely check out my limiting beliefs exercise. I shared a video about the concept that you can download to start to and get to the core of where they come from. This is essentially shadow work. Get to the core and then It's a lot of what we're talking about today, but in an actionable format. Tip #4: to make self love I honestly feel like most should be putting self love because everything else flows from there. If you give yourself love, you'll be able to be a loving You have to fill your own cup first. So, prioritize this relationship Nurture yourself, give back to yourself. Make sure that you take care of and just give yourself all the love, Because if you truly have a lot of self love, you won't be able to feel bad about yourself. Those two things cannot coexist, because when you're not feeling good enough and when you're self criticizing and you're just being your own worst enemy, that's not self love. It's like they cannot coexist. So, instead of operating from "Oh, I'm so small. I'm not good enough," just fill that cup until it's overflowing so that you don't have room for any Try asking yourself every single day, "How can I love myself better?" And then let the answers flow out, "Okay, maybe I can give myself a little "Maybe I want to take myself out on a date." "Maybe I wanna buy flowers for myself, chocolate for myself." Just think of all the ways that How can you be a better best friend, a better number one supporter, a better lover to yourself. So, operate from a place where you If you want some ways to start you can definitely check You can also try something called which I just made up that term, but basically in a self-love journaling session, you would just sit down and How weird is that, right? Write yourself a love letter. Tell yourself nice compliments. What do you like about yourself? What do you love about yourself? Start with 10 things that you love about yourself. And for some that might be really hard. For others, it might be easy. So, do what works for you, but It's literally try being a lover and writing a love letter to yourself. This is something that we have an entire section There's a whole section for self love, 10 things you love about yourself, how to figure out what success means to you, fulfilling life means to you, learning about yourself. All of these self-reflection exercises If you have not checked it out already, I'll link it down below. As you can tell by now, I've been doing Lavendaire for I don't know I have so many resources. For each tip, I have so many resources to help you in your journey to self-love and creating your dream life. but I just have so much to share. Tip #5: to create distance from the things that make you feel bad This could mean taking some time off social media, if that's what makes you feel bad about yourself. If you tend to compare yourself to others just stop it. The best thing to do is to just get off and live your life in the present moment. Appreciate who you are and instead of wanting all these and thinking other people's lives are better. Envy and jealousy is not the kind of You don't want to have the energy where you feel like other people are above you. You put others on a pedestal, thus making yourself feel smaller, That is not the energy we want. So, try to cut anything out that Social media is one. Another one is toxic people in your life. I know everyone's circumstance is different, like if it's family members or if it's peers. Just do your best to create You want to have that protective boundary. You want that space where and not feel pressure from those external forces because they're not helping So, the more distance and space until you're able to give yourself In the future, you might not need It might be like, if this is someone close to you, but you want to create distance, know that it doesn't have to be forever. This can be temporary like you Work on yourself, feel good about yourself, and then maybe in the future, you can be friends with that person again, or be okay with your parents' relationship again. Tip #6: to practice coming back to your true self. I'm talking about the spiritual journey. Do things that make you come back to your soul, make you come back to the truest part of you. You can do meditation, you can go out into nature. Think about the things that where you feel alive, where you feel really good, just naturally flowing with Those are the things that And the more you're able to have a practice of coming back to yourself and getting in touch with your the more at peace you will feel, the more joyful you will feel. And when you have those things, you recognize just how worthy you are, just how worthy and beautiful life is, and you start to care less about all those Oh my God, there's a rainbow. Okay, literally that's a sign to me right now. If you can connect with nature in any form, like what's happening right now, you'll be reminded at how amazing and Nature is so beautiful. Our world, our universe is so beautiful, right? Don't forget that you as a living being Not only are you connected You are a part of all of this, and there's so much beauty and worth in that that is innate--it cannot be taken away. Literally, if you look at the stars, you have the stars in you, the same materials that make the stars make you, and the same life force animals, the rivers, the mountains, all of that-- is also in you. It's amazing. You can't take that away. You're worthy, so worthy without And that brings me to the last Tip #7: to remember that your worth is innate. You are so worthy. Nobody, nothing can take away your worth. Simply by existing, simply by being alive-- there's so much worth in that, right? Think of a baby. A baby is born, and all of these people around the baby, love the baby like, "Oh my God, so cute" Because the baby is just a beautiful thing. It doesn't have to do anything. It doesn't have to prove itself. It's already something that's so valuable, something so precious that people risk They're not being productive, but simply that fact that And I think of puppies-- like puppies don't have to do anything, but they're already naturally so People naturally love them. So, think of yourself in that way. Any living being is so worthy without even trying. Just simply by existing, you are already worthy. So, why do you feel like you're not worthy? Why do you not feel like you're not worthy enough? It all goes back to everything we I hope you can do those exercises to kind of release those limiting beliefs, those negative thoughts Because on the other side is you being able to connect with Recognize that you are a called life and the universe and nature, and there's so much worth in that. All right, I hope you I truly hope that you find true self love and that you recognize how worthy Remember that all the resources that I mentioned There's so much more content to check out. Self love meditations, positive affirmations, worksheets and exercises, as well as our new Artist of Life Workbook that I'm super excited about. It's definitely the to start preparing for the new year, to have a beautiful 2023, and to take those baby towards your goals and your dream life. All right, make sure you and I'll see you in the next one. Sending you so much love. Bye~