(waves crashing) (dramatic music) - [Andrei] I hoped I was But little did I know. Let me start from the beginning. (speaking in foreign language) (camera shutter clicking) (speaking in foreign language) - I have a work permit, if that's what you are worried about. - We're not worried Usually if we have crimes we call in our own translators. - I still think that Russian - Look, Mr. Somov, my advice to you is bone up on your English. - Improve your English. - And I'll talk to my superiors, see if we really have need It was nice meeting you. (dramatic music) - Thank you. (car horn honking) - Yo, it's go, you moron. You could go, can't you see? I'll ask you one more time, - It's not. You know, you're not afraid, huh? I'll remember you, you'll (upbeat music) (airplane engine roaring) (speaking in foreign language) (upbeat music) (birds chirping) - Good morning. - Morning. - I'm just curious, what In your envelope. (dramatic music) - Photos of him to show my family back home. - Oh that's great. That's great. A beautiful dog. Stay, stay, stay. - Mavr, wait. (speaking in foreign language) Mavr. (speaking in foreign language) Sir? Are you from Moscow? - Moscow? Sorry, my dog's from Moscow, and I thought maybe you knew him. He's usually not so good with strangers. - Well animals are much He just picked up my frequency. - You go around sending out frequencies? Like a flying mouse? (laughing) - We call 'em bat in this country. Now I have some advice for you. I want you to brush up on your English, if you expect to get a - What? - Have you ever seen the sonic wave? - No. - Would you ever like to see one? - I never thought about it. - Well, I've been to the other side twice. Clinically dead. And I was surrounded by which gave me information that presidents and czars can't even spell. A very special place. (intense music) There's a bomb in that envelope. - What? What bomb? Mavr. - Send someone quick. I'm on the corner of Third and Central. Excuse me. This may seem like a silly question. But I need to know the contents Gotcha. - Please, I need to know - It's none of your business. (Michael grunts) (dramatic music) (police siren blaring) (tires screeching) - Have a nice day. Mr. Miller, your package has arrived. (police siren blaring) (explosion booms) (explosion booms) - This is Commander March. I'm on Third and Central. There's been an explosion (police siren blaring) I'm working on another thing, and remember, I'm the Commander. I'm the Chief of Police. Now I want everyone in We're gonna have a very strong meeting about what's been going - You all right, sir? (Michael sighs) (police sirens blaring) - Don't blame yourself, Chief. It was just a hunch, - You call that a hunch? That's why you're still Sergeant, People die on hunches. - Another fire, probably You wanna continue the pursuit? - No, I think it's good that we let him go bomb another building. (car engine rumbling) (police siren blaring) (tires screeching) - [Dispatcher] 16-31 there. Present said motorist under - Yeah, the suspect, he pulled - That's what we got. - Here's what I got. Three days ago, the Times got the letter about a corruption scheme in pushing ineffective Now write this down. The letter said to all department heads of pharmaceutical companies, the end is coming. (chuckles) - Who are these people? - Let's lose the smirks, - Captain, I, I think I speak when I say that none of We can only imagine what knocking on this door We're just sort of We only have the facts to go with. Nobody taught us how to predict a crime. - How about preventing My mother taught me when I was very young, never lose my temper. Bet she never met you idiots! You are required to prevent the crime! And that's the difference - Tell them, I want to invite - Okay. - This is the address. - OK, will do. - Thank you very much. - Where's your report on the Broma guy? - Who, sir? - Broma, the guy who wrote the article. That's the guy that - Well sir, obviously, that name is fake. - We don't know that. Go, go, go, go, go. I'm counting on every one of you. - Lieutenant, I ran the case files, but I only came up with one Broma. He ran off with some guy's wife and kid. Filed the report when he Sounds more like a job not a bomb squad. - I still want to take a look at it. - Okay, yeah. The file? - That boy. Okay, what else we got? - Well we recently ran a list but no one by the name of Broma. But we're still following up on that. - All right, let's see of everybody who didn't - Yeah, I'm running that now. We should have it in a couple of minutes. Oh, by the way, Somov stopped by. He wants us to meet him you want to go? - Mack, you know I'm not a gambler. - It's not a casino, it's - Oh, in that case, I'm in. - Great. (dramatic music) (speaking in foreign language) - Oh, thank you so much. (speaking in foreign language) (people chattering) - Senor Larry. They got Senor Juan as he was crossing. And now we got this Russian She was gonna go with Senor Can we help them? Si. I'll be waiting. Okay. (speaking in foreign language) - Hi. They are still green. With a little bit of salt and this knife, they taste very good. - [Rita] Thank you. - This is Senor Larry, he Hi, how's it going? - And who is this little beauty? Your daughter? - Hi sweetheart, what's your name? - [Rita] Her name is Lena, and she doesn't speak any English. - I bet she understands this. Here you go, here you go, sweetheart. (speaking in foreign language) - [Larry] You're welcome. Have you any bags? - Yeah, there. What's going on? - We gotta get going. - Where? - My ranch, about an hour's drive north. - Is it in America? - No, it's still in Mexico. - So why can't we go just - Are you in a hurry go to jail? The Mexican border's really tight today. I came across earlier, they Want somebody to frisk you? - That's not funny. - I'm not a comedian, come on. - Did you know Juan well? I hope the price will be the same as what we agreed with Juan. I think you are probably wondering why we are wanting to cross No matter what happen to me and to Lena, but I'm not going to pay anymore than we discussed with Juan, okay? - Don't worry, the price will be the same. (dramatic music) (upbeat music) - Oh, great. - Russian can-can. - How's search for Mr. Broma? - So far not so good. The only Broma we had in our files fled the country about two years ago. Ran off with the wife and child of some poor guy named Larry McClovsky. - Hmm. - I see they let you smoke in this place. - Go ahead, smoke yourself to death. - I thought you quit. It's refreshing to find that lets you light up. It's a nice place to work Somov. - I would prefer to work where people carry guns and wear badges. They read people their rights - It's March doesn't yet trust you enough to let you carry a badge, much less a gun. - So Somov, your friends like this place? - Oh, this place is great. - I'm having a great time. - That's Victor, Tijuana. (speaking in foreign language) - Victor asked me to go to Tijuana and buy some tile for the kitchen. - We have kind of a shortage why don't you go Andrei. - I have to find somebody - I could do that, you outta - Okay, I'll go. - [Roy] (laughs) What do we got here? - Okay, gentlemen. - Wow. - Wow, nice to meet you. - Have good time. (speaking in foreign language) - I gotta toast. To Somov and sombreros. (dramatic music) - I don't stay here much, but this is home. - If I had known things I would never have gone with you. I'm sure Juan had a different plan. - (snickers) Juan's plan? If Juan had a plan instead he'd get you across the border and plots a Greyhound bus to Canada. In Canada, one of his guys get you a visa, and gets you back in the States legally. Am I right? Of course, I'm right. Well Rita, I have exactly the same plan. The only difference is, Juan can't. Anyway, this is your room. And it makes you feel any better, there's a lock on the door. See you guys in the morning. Sweet dreams. - Hello. Hello. Hi doggy, hi doggy, come here. How you doing buddy? Hey, how about giving Uncle - Yeah, no, no, no, no, please. He doesn't like the smell of alcohol. - I gotta change that, that's for sure. (Somov laughs) Come here boy, yeah, good puppy. What else I gotta know about? - You have to feed him twice a day. Once in the morning before he walk, and second time when you come back home. - That's easy enough. - A lot easier than that's for sure. At least, I don't have to - Well, he likes it - Oh yeah? - All right, well don't - You wanna listen to Russian music? - Yeah, it'd be great. Yeah, yeah that's right, we're gonna be a pair That's right, come over here. Beautiful, nicely done. (phone ringing) Hello, Somov castle, Sergeant Uh-huh. Yeah, must be for you. I don't understand a - Hello? Hi Mija. (speaking in foreign language) - Somov, I love it when you speak Russian. I think that language is beautiful. As a matter of fact, I am going to make my next wife Russian. Can you help me with that? - Sure, why not. - What's the matter, something wrong? - Kind of, they denied my son They deny her because she is pregnant. - Well that's no problem. Just after she has the - They already applied, - Apply a third time. Somov, you gotta hit these bureaucrats over their head with these stuff. - You're a very good man Roy. (door bangs) - Did I forget to mention this door? - Get out, get out or I'll scream. - Scream all you want. I got no neighbors, and the closest village is 40 miles away. (speaking in foreign language) - Hi, pumpkin. (dramatic music) - What do you want from us? - I guess what everybody wants. Little respect, little love. - Please, let's talk - Tell me something, did you kidnap her? - Are you crazy? Why would I kidnap my own daughter? - Then why are you so Who are you running from? You running from your husband? - I just want to live in America. It's the best country in the world. - I hate when people - I don't lie. - Bull. - Why do you think I'm lying? - I can tell when women are lying. My wife Teresa, she was a liar. She ended up running So who are you running from? Who are you running from, Rita? - I don't have to tell you anything. - Believe me, you do. - I had to run. If I didn't, I would be dead. (dramatic music) - Why is that? - My husband. - My husband, he embezzled money from a lot of people in Moscow. (speaking in foreign language) (dramatic music) (speaking in foreign language) (dramatic music) (airplane engine roaring) (bangs on door) (speaking in foreign language) - When they couldn't find They broke all of the Lena got hurt. (glass shattering) (dramatic music) When I went to Russian police, they thought that I was involved, they started interrogating me. They searched my apartment more than once. Lena started having I had a Mexican visa. We were planning family trip - Wow. I understand when a parent I have, (gentle music) I have a friend who has a child. And she was taken away from him. - She was taken away from you? - No, no, my friend. - What happened? - What happened? His wife kidnapped her is what happened. Guy did everything he could. He and the police looked for They never found her. - I'm sorry. - And I'm sorry if I came It was just that, when I saw your daughter, I didn't want anything to happen to her. I was thinking she If you don't care, I don't care. So, have you got the money? - I told you I did. (suspenseful music) - I will show it to you, and get us some sleep. - Fine. - Are you happy? (dramatic music) (speaking in foreign language) - Hey Rita, why'd you block the door? Here, give this to Lena. (gentle music) (car horn honking) (tires screeching) (upbeat music) - May I see your papers, sir? - What's the purpose of your trip? Business or pleasure? - Uh, tile. - What? - Tile, I need to buy tile Coyote, coyote. - Coyotes. - You're looking for coyotes? - Yeah. - Go to the corner of and ask for a Fernando Lopez. - Oh, okay, is it cheap? - It's cheap and good, - Okay (laughs) to be honest with you I was just heading to the Lopez place. - Oh, well amigo, you're good to go then. Let him through. - Thank you. (relaxing music) I'm sorry, are you Fernando Lopez? - Oh, si Senor. - Yeah, Andrei. - What can I help you with? - You see, I need this - I don't have so many. If you have patience and wait a little. - But, how long I have to wait? A day, two? - Tomorrow, I will have the rest. Maybe. It's the coyote, I'm - Coyote. I don't understand. - Si, somebody told me you to get you to the States. You are Russian, aren't you? - Yes, I am. - Yesterday, there's one coyote, he got this Russian lady and her kid across the border, no problem. - Oh, I get it. Coyote is the guy who help Okay, and they can go Uh, and you are coyote. - Oh no, Senor, Senor He can help you with your visa problems. - How much it will cost? - It depends, you have to - Where is he? - I will give you his He only lives about 40 miles from here. - Hm. (suspenseful music) (relaxing music) (car horn honking) - Hey. - Hello. - Hey, help us. Please, help us. - Don't shoot. Fernando sent me. - And who are you? - My name is Somov. Are you coyote? - What do you want? - Fernando told me that you can help. - Fernando told you that, huh? - Yes. - You wanna talk, get in the car. (speaking in foreign language) (gun clicks) - Now, I'm gonna ask you this just once. Who are you? And why do you want to cross the border? I see you've got California - I'm looking American visa for my kids, they still in Russia. - Uh-huh. - And they haven't been able to get any. - So you're Russian. - Yeah. - Look, I don't make visas. I just get people cross the border. Sometimes in a trunk, know what I mean? - Yeah, I understand. I'm sorry, I made a mistake probably. - Then get the hell out of (Rita grunts) (speaking in foreign language) - Hey, what's up? What's all the screaming about? - I don't want to sit locked - Well I didn't lock you up. You locked yourself in, remember? Besides, time to go. - I don't want to go with you. I will go back to the town by myself. - 40 miles in a desert on foot? - I'll manage. - You might, but she won't. - It's none of your business, okay? If you won't let us go, - The police? I think you forget you're but if it makes you feel Go ahead, call 'em. - But I have a visa, okay? - You had a visa. Fernando said it expired a long time ago. Let's go. - But I was looking for I have a reason. - Well that changes everything. I'm sure the Mexican Police - And you're not going - No, I'm not gonna kill you. I'm just gonna get you across the border. End of story. - Lena, Lena. - But promise me something. - What? - Don't turn her against me. - What are you talking about? - Okay, I promise. Let's go. Going on a trip. Such a big girl. Here we go. Mom, hop in. - [Rita] Lena. (dramatic music) - Larry, I forgot to ask - We'll talk when I get back. (speaking in foreign language) - [Larry] Okay, we gotta go. - Bye. - God damn Russian. Yeah, what were you two talking about? - I didn't say anything. - What did he say? - He said that he's going to rescue us. That he's an undercover cop. - Is that so? (tires screeching) - What are you doing? - [Larry] What am I doing, (dramatic music) - He didn't say that, he asked me what city I was from. - I told you I can tell and you are lying. I hate it when people lie. I just hate it. Here we go, eh. Oh, that damn Russian. (dramatic music) (gun clicks) (gun bangs) (gun bangs) - Yeah, no Victor, he So, right, I understand. Yeah, I'll see what I can do. Sure. Just how I wanna spend my day off. (phone rings) - Hello. - Listen, I just got kind from Victor, you remember, He hasn't heard from Somov, have you? - No, I told you the last well actually I tried to get ahold of him, and his service was out. - You got any ideas? - Well, I got some buddies maybe they can talk to some people at the Tijuana Police Department. - Sounds like a good idea. You had dinner yet? - No, I'm starving, I was - [Sommers] Where? - I'm over at the Farmer's Market over in northwest parking lot. - Turn around. No, turn all the way around. Look over here. - Who're you talking to? (Roy chuckles) - Your evil twin, get in the car. - I would like to advise you to double check your incoming mail. Tighten your security until we have this suspect arrested. - Mr. March, of course, but what makes you think that will be the next target. Did you receive a tip? - I was given the sign. - A sign, you mean like a sign from God? - You can think like that if you want to. I did not get a phone call from Heaven. I did not, but in my work, my research and my guidance gave me this newspaper article. And this puts you is on of Mr. Broma's acts of terrorism. - Stanley, contact the - Absorb and digest what I've told you, because it is the truth, and call me when you get any information. - Get Pensing. Get my car downstairs now. Yes sir. more security while we're - Yes sir. in the mail room have 'em - Yes, sir. (dramatic music) (scanner whirring) (dramatic music) - No, I know, not even post cards. I'm telling you the mail - Well I can see them getting paranoid after what happened to Relco. - Yeah, you know, Bill sent Do you think they'll be okay after they go through that - I think chocolate's okay. Yeah, good. Oh, let me give you these. - Thanks. - I see it like this. Say we've oh, been on Her mother's in the corner, depression, it's a suicidal moment. And then all of a sudden on the bottom of the screen, Polarium. Mother and daughter smile And then the tagline, Polarium, Helen, what do you think? - Yes, Mr. Storgeous. - You got me a new pen set? - I don't know what - What, that right (dramatic music) - [Helen] Well maybe someone I've never seen this pen set before, sir. - Oh. (dramatic music) No, wait. - Well. - It's actually beautiful. But if you don't like it, I can remove it. - No, no. I'm just a little paranoid, that's all. - Okay, I understand, sir. Here are the documents. - Sure. - Sir. - Thank you. - Oh Helen, hang on a second, I want you to type up my (dramatic music) (explosion booms) - I knew it. How many casualties? How many casualties? - Five dead, a dozen wounded. Trying not to get too worked up, Captain. - If you don't arrest this bastard today, I'm gonna bounce you for the rest of your fucking life. What did you bring me here for? Why did you bring me to What am I doing with these? (metal clangs) - This is all we can on Liz McClovsky. - Thanks, Clayton. - Good job. - [Sommers] You want to send - Oh, sure. - So how's March? - Well he almost had a heart attack, spent the rest of the day - Well, at least it's gonna be quiet around here for a change. - What planet are you from? Did you track down the father's address? - Yeah, corner of Central and Third, but hasn't been around for weeks. Neighbor says he has a - Anything else? - A couple of domestic disturbance reports by McClovsky's neighbors. I guess since his daughter's disappearance he's been taking it pretty hard. Started off kinda nuts then - What do you mean? - He started firing in the middle of the night. They put him on Gleemenox, - Happy pills, huh? - Um-hmm, but here was the kicker. Guess who makes Gleemenox? - Relco. - Put some surveillance on this guy. I want to know the minute he gets back. Bring him in and find out what he knows. - You really think he's our man, huh? - It's a little early to Missing daughter, the Relco connection, God knows what the drug did to him. And then there's Broma. - Yeah Broma, the ultimate payback for the guy who stole your wife, huh? - Contact the police in Tijuana, see if they got anything on him. - You think the Mexican Police - It can't hurt to try. - Okay, I'm on it. - Mac? - You heard anything from Somov? - No, I called his cell phone, but there's a message on there saying his service has been canceled. Poor guy's having a hard you know, and the restaurant - At least he gets caviar and - Come on Lieutenant, around here he can do? - I'll tell you what, we'll and see if they can cook something up. - I was being serious. - Yeah, I know. He needs a break. (suspenseful music) - Well folks, this is it, almost America. Here, let me carry her. - No, I don't want you to touch her. - Hey Lena, look. See this, watch. (gulps) Pretty good, huh, ooh, pow! Let's go. Okay, we're still in Mexico. And for about 25 yards on the other side of We get warmer and warmer. There should be a car waiting for us on the other side of that hill. - [Rita] I think that Lena is sick. - Come here. How are you doing? She does have a high fever. I told you, you should have - [Rita] Stop it, I don't - Your not listening - I said enough, already? - All right. Here we go. Okay Rita, step only on and that way they won't see our track. This is the neutral zone. 25 yards, and we're in America. We're almost in America. Here we go, ready? Here we go. (dramatic music) Let's go. Okay, take her, take her. - What's up? I have to go back. - I have to cover the tracks you left. Just go straight ahead, straight ahead, but only walk on the Okay, give her to me. I think she's getting worse. (sighs) Oh man. This is a good rest spot. - So where's the car? - Well he's supposed near that Joshua tree. - What happened? Are we late? - No. - So where is the car? Maybe you told them the - No. Think something might've happened to Max. (wind whooshing) - So what do we do now? Walk? - 20 miles in the desert? Your daughter will never make it. - Okay, then I'll walk by myself, and you call yourself a coyote? What are you charging for? - If you go alone, you'll - Why would they stop me, we've - You don't think they're a women and child walking on foot in the Mexican American border. - Okay, so what do you suggest? - I suggest we stick to - What if he doesn't show up. What if he got caught? - Well, then we have to - Oh no, no. I'm not going back there. I would rather prefer to stay here. - All right, if we get caught though, we'll say Lena is my child, at least then we'll have a chance. - [Rita] Great plan. I go to jail, and Lena - Okay, we'll stick with your plan. - You'll go to jail. Lena will go live with perfect strangers, at least you know me, lady. - I would prefer her than be brought up with a psycho like you. - I don't intend to argue with you. Hey Lena, you want some water? - Yes. - Here we go. (dramatic music) (wind whooshing) - Hi. - Where can I find gasoline? - No gasoline. (speaking in foreign language) - Over there? - Okay, thank you. Hot, huh, okay. - Something must have happened to Max? He would've been here by now. We gotta go back. - I'm not going anywhere, They will understand if - You don't get it, do you? You are a criminal, you You know what that spells, jail. Now we've gotta go. The border patrol will be snooping around in about 15 minutes. - I'm not going anywhere. (helicopter blades whirring) - Ah no, run, come on, hand me the kid. (dramatic music) - [Officer] Stay right where you are. Left side, left side. - Take her, take her, take her, take her. Take her, take her, okay, hide. (dramatic music) (car engine rumbling) (speaking in foreign language) (police siren blaring) (car engines rumbling) (tires screeching) (tires screeching) (air whooshing) (speaking in foreign language) - Your sweet life is over, coyote! Do you hear me, over! He thinks he got away. (speaking in foreign language) - When we find him. (speaking in foreign language) (suspenseful music) (crickets chirring) - I'm going to put her to bed. - Why don't you guys I'll be in the barn if you need me. (owl hooting) - Thank you. Here we go. (door creaks) (clears throat) (suspenseful music) - Larry, I want to talk to you. - How's she doing, is she asleep? - Yeah, yes, she is. - What's up? - I feel awful. I think I made a horrible mistake. I didn't know that it I don't want to go to America anymore. I just want to go back home. - Wow, I thought you said it wasn't safe. - Yeah, I know. I know, but I've got a I shouldn't have come here. I didn't even come close I thought I could make it by my own, start fresh in America, but But you can't talk with fate. I'm so tired of all of that. I guess I just want you to - Certainly, let me call you a limo. Honey, it's the middle of the night. - But you know, I was crazy to run away. I want to go home, please. - You know, I hate this shit. - What? - Well, the way some and when things don't turn you guys blame it on fate. - What are you talking about? - I'm talking about the fact that you don't take responsibility for when things turn out bad. This isn't fate. This is bullshit. If this is fate, why involve your kid? Why chase after your husband? Your kid's got nothing to do with that, your kid is sick, she's running a fever, and you want to take her to an airport. What's wrong with you? - You have a child, don't you? - I had a child, Liz. I lost her, when she was three years old. (suspenseful music) My wife's fate, Broma, they He made her smoke, fed her beer, and those are the sweet tender moments. - I'm so sorry. - Yeah my wife might have but she lost us a child. When I think of my daughter's fate, I want to take those people responsible and blow their brains out. I know they think they'll but believe me, they are wrong. They are so wrong. Don't. - I just wanted to check on Lena. - No, it's not good, sit down. - No. You're not going anywhere. I didn't want to. You're not going anywhere. Give me your hand. - Larry, Larry but I swear. - I won't say to anybody. Please don't hurt her. Please don't hurt her. - What's wrong with you? I'm not gonna hurt Lena. Just gonna go get her some medicine. Now, just in case. You can trust me. Even if I can't trust you. (dramatic music) (door lock clicks) (speaking in foreign language) (dramatic music) - Senor Morales. I'm pretty sure this is our coyote. I recognize (speaking (dispatcher chattering) Si. - For you, how old? - She's six. - Let her drink in the morning, and then in the evening give her this one. And let she chew it, - Okay. - How old is your daughter? - [Larry] She's six. (dramatic music) - Hey, what's the name of your daughter? (tires screeching) (dramatic music) (tires screeching) - What can I tell you? I was a detective in Moscow. Never a dull moment. Something was happening all the time. Even the day before coming to the States. I ended up catching one of (gun banging) (tires screeching) He shot me on the shoulder. (man grunts) (metal cart clangs) (dramatic music) (gun banging) But I just kept chasing him (gun banging) There we were, both with no idea who would be (man screaming) Yeah, I sure had some interesting times, only my son was always worried. (speaking in foreign language) - You know, since I was a kid, I fantasized about coming to America. Taxi! Always thought I would be a big success. And look, what happened here. I ended up working in (speaking in foreign language) (dramatic music) (speaking in foreign language) (airplane engine roaring) (bangs on door) (speaking in foreign language) (glass shattering) (dramatic music) (car engine rumbling) (speaking in foreign language) - Hello, little princess. Time to take your medicine. (speaking in foreign language) - Mama, mom's asleep? Here, this'll make you feel better. Here you go. (dramatic music) Do you like her? This is Rainbow Bright, See, watch. Ah, give me a kiss. (smacks lips) Kiss you, watch this. Ooh, give me a kiss. (smacks lips) (approaching footsteps) I gave her some medicine. I think it'll help. Let's go inside, she was asking for you. (Rita groans) Sorry, it's gonna hurt. (Rita screams) Ooh, sorry, babe, here we go. (dramatic music) - You think that just because your brother he work for customs, You better think again. - [Officer] It's time for you to pay. Trust me, you don't want to you if you don't. (speaking in foreign language) - I have no money, business is down. - Oh, business is down, you say huh? What about your other business? Huh? - I don't know what you're talking about? (speaking in foreign language) (laughing) (speaking in foreign language) (fist thuds) What do you think, I'm stupid? You are the (speaking Because I know everything about your other business I tell you this, your friend, The question is, are you Huh, I got a phone call from But before I turn him over I want my piece. I only one, you better tell me. - Senor Morales (speaking Really, I don't know what Okay, okay, okay, okay. You know Juan, don't you? - Si. (speaking in foreign language) Okay, now, he told me that And that you know where he lives. - Well, he's a liar. (speaking in foreign language) - Si hombre, he may be a Are you, now I'm going to count to three. Uno, dos-- I'll tell you where he lives. Better yet I'll take you there. (screams) - Ah, you are very smart after all. You're no (speaking in - Well, the smart thing to do And when this thing blows over, we'll get you guys back together. - What are you talking about but? - But nothing, I've got I've got the money, you don't. Your life is in danger, mine isn't. - You don't get it, you're - She used to me, right? - She's my daughter and I'm not giving her up, you understand? - I understand. (dramatic music) (speaking in foreign language) - What did she say? - She says that she - Well, the doll is probably hungry. How about Larry makes her Come on mom, I'll make us dinner. Come on. (speaking in foreign language) (dramatic music) (speaking in foreign language) - For you. - Thank you. (speaking in foreign language) - What are you talking about? - She doesn't speak any English, and I'm just explaining to her - Mm, you know what? Doesn't sound to me like you're explaining what she's saying. - You don't speak any - I don't have to speak Russian. I just have to look at her face. Kids don't lie. (car engine rumbles) (dramatic music) - Are you looking for me? Drop the gun if you don't Drop the gun. (speaking in foreign language) (gun bangs) (dramatic music) - What are you trying to do? I've got the keys. Get out of the car. - Look, it doesn't have to end like this. I meant what I said when Open the door. - I don't want your help, - But you can't, I've got the gun. And if you don't open the - Coyote. (gun bangs) (dramatic music) - Please, don't shoot, child's in there. (speaking in foreign language) - Yes sir. (Larry groans) - This man is not a killer. I'm Russian policeman. - Oh great, first I got now I gotta listen to What's going on today? Why is everyone trying to boss me around? (speaking in foreign language) - What happened to you? - Don't worry about me. (speaking in foreign language) (gentle music) - It's okay, it's okay. It's okay, don't be unhappy. Rita, come here. Rita, I have lots of money. - Don't talk, don't talk. - Shh, I was saving it in the barn, go through take a left, two more steps, under the floor boards, Oh, I need, I need help. (speaking in foreign language) (gentle music) (speaking in foreign language) (explosion booms) (dramatic music) - [Michael] Somov. - Yeah? - Remember, we met in the park. - I remember you. But how do you know my name? - From Sommers and McMillan. I'm their boss. - Oh, so you are March. - Yes. - I heard a lot about you. - And that I'm a complete nut job. - (chuckles) I heard a lot of good things. - Yeah I bet, did they - Broma? The guy who was blowing up No, they didn't have a chance. So who found him. - The nut job. - Really? (speaking in foreign language) - How? - The guy's name is Miguel Sanchez. He's a brilliant biochemist, and he created what he thought But it was rejected by And I had a feeling. I started a cross-reference, the files at Relco with Sanchez was rejected by both. - How about Broma? - You mean Broma. It turns out Miguel Sanchez Broma means joke in Spanish. - So Sommers was just wasting It was one of our leads. This one turned out to be a dead end. It happens. By the way, this is for you. The Certificate of Honor. And I wanted to give it to you myself. - Why are you doing this? - Because they told me all And I've never been invited. (both laughing) - Well, consider it as an invitation. And consider it accepted. It's good to see you, you feeling better? - Yeah. I'll check with you later. Congratulations. - Andrei, March told us he I think he likes you. - Really? - It's okay. Strange thing, I keep hurting it, first it was dislocated, now it gets shot. I'm ready to trade it in for a new model. - I'll introduce you to a doctor I know. You'll like him, he's a Russian. - March told me that he found the bomber. - Yeah, Broma the joker. - It seems to me that They put him in jail for nothing. - What do you mean nothing? He was running people across the border. He held you all the gun point. - What about Rita and Lena? - They went back to Russia. - Hey, Somov, how are you doing buddy? Just talked to the doctor. He says you're gonna be all right. - How's Mavr? - Oh he's doing great, it's He sleeps on my side of the bed, growls when I go to grab a beer, and he nags when I come - What are those for? - Ah, for a toast. I know it's against - We're officially off duty. - What kind of toast? - It's a small one, but - Really? If I get any on the bed, All right fellows, to your granddaughter. - What? - Yeah, your son called. His wife had a little girl, 2.2 kilos. (gentle music) - [Roy] What's the matter - It's perfect, Roy. It's absolutely perfect. - (laughs) Mazel tov! (speaking in foreign language) - Sounds like it's Russian. That a boy. Take some of the pain away, huh? - Not bad. (laughing) - It's fun with a Percodan too. (gentle music) (speaking in foreign language) (gentle music) - It's amber farm. - This is nice, thank you. - You got a minute? - Sure. - Okay, go ahead. He's funny, isn't he? I see in visions and in pictures, and I saw you at the police academy. - I've never been there, sir. - Well I saw you, I saw how you trained. I saw you get a diploma. I saw you get your badge, - Really? - Well, I think it's a - Too late for what, to learn? - When does this training start? - It just started. Welcome to where you belong. Go get your locker. (gentle music)