Hey everyone. It's Andy with this week's tips for working Today we're going to talk a little bit about opens up with walk me through your resume. It is probably one of the dumbest ways for but it is one of the best things that could You might be puzzled, you might be wondering, I get the emails, I get the comments on my how to answer this. You say, &quot;Ugh, I'm not sure where to start. I'm not sure what to say. I'm not sure what to share. I don't want to share the wrong things.&quot; What you should be thinking is, &quot;Yes. Thank you mister unskilled job interviewer question that I can now take and totally control highlight reel, so buckle up and prepare to That's what should be going through your head is you want to share. Before we get into the here's how, I want don'ts to get you positioned in the right First thing I want you to do is it's actually week before, whenever it is, I want you to the job description, and I want you to determine in your resume most closely align and best I want you to think about those and one tool achievements journal. It's got 14 great areas to investigate about career. It'll really give you questions to ask yourself to share whether with your current employer I want you to just kind of think through the to what it is that they need in an employee. That's the first do. The second do, make sure when you go into resume. It's something a lot of people forget to do, Number one, you cannot be sure that the job and even if they do have a copy it's highly I know it's sad but it's true. They're that lazy, which is why they asked you to read it for them to them. You can be pretty certain about that. You want to make sure you've got a copy of You also want to make sure that before you You want to make sure that you ask them the There's basically three directions you can You can start at the beginning of your professional up to today. You could ask them, &quot;Do you want me to start do you want me to start today and go in reverse the beginning of my professional career, or that I think are most important for you to the job, the things that I think best prepare Which way would you like me to go?&quot; They'll probably want you to go from the beginning direction, you'll know. What I don't want you to do when you start what's on the resume. Don't look at your resume and start reading. You'll be very dry. The other thing that will make you dry, the is I don't want you to just talk about the You'll lose them. You'll lose their attention. It's not that exciting that you were responsible Once you know what direction that they want you to go from the beginning of time till and here's what I want you to do. When you start at the beginning, now for many years ago or 30 years ago, the first thing on your resume is created equal in helping It's not all as relevant. For those areas and those are usually going they're not going to be as germane. I want you to walk through those very, very If I was interviewing, somebody was interviewing and they wanted me to talk about how when and an engineer, I might say something like, I started working as a programmer and then projects that implemented software solutions.&quot; That took me 10 seconds to go through five but they asked you to start there so that's You want to, those areas that are not as important very quickly. Let's say you get to a spot in your career accomplishment, or a home run achievement, When you do that you want to make sure that happening in that project. What did you do? What was the business benefit? Who were you doing it for? Who were you doing it with? How much money did you save them? How much money did you generate them? Whatever it might be so that career achievements that you can download, has 14 areas or questions your story. It brings real context, so then give them one. You might be thinking, &quot;Andy, I could go on Good, go do that. You get to totally script exactly what it You might be thinking, &quot;I'm not really sure. Maybe I'm running off at the mouth. I might bore them.&quot; There's ways for you after you hit each major over to the interviewer and just say, &quot;Is Did you have anymore questions about that? Did you want to discuss that any further? How am I doing? Should I go onto the next point?&quot; Whatever you need to do to give yourself a The fact of the matter is they've turned control to blueprint the dialogue that occurs. You get to tell them what you want to tell That's the wonderful thing about getting asked I hope that helps. I'm not going to recap all of this, but one signing off is make sure to grab that career to give you a lot more context that you can more colorful and powerful. If you want to learn more about how to respond in a job interview, check out my free interview It's free. It's also in the notes, but you really nail check that out. Hope you enjoyed this information. If you did, give me a like, a comment, or If you're watching this anywhere other than life blog, hop over to the blog, got loads much more. Till next week, have a great one.