All right. high of the year on Friday. trade. And I'm katie Greifeld. now. Coming up, the Trump trade still going U.S. weekly performance of the year following Cryptocurrencies are no exception to the the charge. boosts pro crypto bets and ETFs as such, We'll break down where the record All of that and more coming up. are trading after quite a week. week. today. a percent. You can see currently higher by about The bond market is closed today, of And maybe it's good that bond traders boy, has it been wild. Treasury yield closed on Friday at 4.3% Yeah, just about the level from the week That is not the case with Bitcoin. These are ETFs and the surge in flow is down on. In fact, the biggest flows into Bitcoin big win last week. equity world. well. morning that it won't pursue a merger Political uncertainty is also putting Medicare. course, doing very well. But Humana on the heels of no deal, now Also checking in on Tesla, extending White House and potential benefits to Matt, I know we're watching Musk Otherwise, too. I mean, it seems like Musk needs to give We're seeing that certainly in the run Musk backing Rick Scott out of Florida, in as well. win in this round. in Tesla, take a look at Rich. All of I think the top 15 richest people year if they were American or in Right. bit, but Elon Musk has added about $20 week, surpassing, again, $300 billion in It's amazing. that we've seen in Tesla in the broader And Elon Musk is a special case in many But you think about the week we had last equities at all in your personal S&amp;P 500 was up 4.7%. this year. definitely coming in last week. And if you think about what is ahead conclusion of these Republican House The House races more largely, the party And if you have that full red sweep, it for not only billionaires, but also Interesting to see the bond market. right? Speaking of the 401k back. All right. on that for sure. markets to lead that coverage. and portfolio manager Joanne Feeney. with us today. 2016 because a lot of people are pulling use today. Yeah. Well, you know, we walked into the Most people had that. 5050. have some resilience to policy changes. recognize that a lot of money flowed caused sort of everything, almost though, it's going to be a stock pickers policies that have been floated are going to have losers. into the details when you dig into the that you had voiced to us before that I'm wondering how you view now and the under a red sweep defense in particular? double down at this point. that's going to benefit from the And we already saw some of that last But, you know, particularly the U.S. We need to recognize that the type of warfare is changing dramatically has Russia war. example, a smaller company called technology and engines for drones. a really good opportunity. Martin, Raytheon, we like those. But there are you know, there are others And so, you know, when you look at the come into play, that's going to make loser or so it isn't purely a sector into an overlay. want to call it that, of course, this in the stock market was what we learned There was a great note out from data of S&amp;P 500 reporting companies beat this But that's pretty below where we've been average. average average. Yeah, I mean, it's typically the case underestimate what companies will do. And in fact, they they beat by a smaller So it wasn't like we had blowout But what I think is more important is the S&amp;P 500 having earned 12% more than And even more importantly than that, place, looks to see earnings grow Now, those numbers are going to be You know, we see the potential benefit corporate taxes, and that's sort of a That certainly would help more across But those tariffs, we and the really disproportionate and diverse companies. restrictions driving up the cost, construction, retail, So that could really crimp their That's something to watch out for. are could help some domestic companies form of higher import and good prices But then you look at, you know, M&amp;A and and losers there. investors to roll up their sleeves. individual stock investors for our We think this is a particularly bad time investor because they're going to be I mean, there will be winners and losers that's a long way off, right, Joanne, at animal Spirits game? not because anyone knows what tariffs or you know, we're buying stocks. spirits? Well, yeah, Mat. in the short run. investor, you want to be positioned for for multiple years. into play. put out a note this morning, you know, the beneficiaries and the losers in this And don't expect those policy changes to I mean, you know, Trump has made it some changes and that could be to Remember that the president doesn't need range of tariff impositions. people realize. on the macro front from deregulation or the macro situation could deteriorate potentially inflationary policies that All right, Joe, And that's a good place Really appreciate you kicking off the That is Joann Feeney from Advisors Meanwhile, let's take a look under the moving ahead of the opening bell. starting off with a big laggard. Katie down sharply, plunging even down They actually beat adjusted earnings by But in terms of the current quarter shared, plus their chief revenue officer 73%. that. There's a lot of a cloud component here. They simply didn't get it. trade, we do have the crypto space been talking about, The anticipation to be friendly to crypto has Bitcoin at of the bearish technical as a been at play. related names going along for the ride. trade, a new piece of it, Tesla heading right now, defying some of the shorts. not a very big short interest on Tesla, And we do have Dan Ives over at the big Well he's raised his price target to a And that stock may be headed in that Certainly the short squeeze, although the story. keeping an eye on all things under the Coming up next, speaking of the market, ETFs last week. flows next. Let's get out of high interests to look world. executive committee from 22 members to The company's new CEO is looking to standalone asset manager after the stock The CEO did not rule out wider job cuts, he's open to moving up a parliamentary would potentially speed up the country's Schulz's government collapsed last week minister, and hedge funds are betting They've lost over $5 billion since That's according to data compiled by Since Election Day, Tesla's shares have $200 billion, and added market value, trillion. Musk and really everyone that's invested Tesla has a big weighting there. Let's talk about the flow show Alison, The US ETFs took in nearly $59 We saw Bitcoin, we saw financials and money. Emily Growth Fail. Bitcoin reaching a new record high, it's and you're seeing that reflected in the Yeah, this was a product, at least I the biggest Bitcoin ETF people had been results came in. has taken in over $1 billion every And then after Trump won the election, So on Thursday of last week, we saw the taken. approved in January and we were talking flows is even bigger right now for Bitcoin total market cap right now over Coinmarketcap What are where else are things sold off before the election? lot of these trades had. were piling in. people were selling XLE, which is the They're regional banks. Wednesday, one day after Trump's win. looser regulatory stance on banks. both regional banks and just financials X l f, which is just a broad based year, $1.3 billion into that into that Emily I'm a little more interested vanilla ETFs. P. Q. Q Eric Balchunas over at Bloomberg that you saw 12 billion worth of daily normally see. investing at the index level over the little choppy or risky. I mean, what was the scale of moves you these areas where you would expect to do I mean, Trump administration, I think you're typically always going to see People in there for one case are not, who wins the presidency. bigger than normal The day after the We saw inflows that were 16 times the that you see. the rally and trying to ride it out and also long bonds. I'm not sure if that really makes sense love TLT as well and investors just love They seem to crave it when it comes to What's interesting though is that it's seeing this bullish positioning. as well, you've reported on this that which tracks the Russell 2000. strong. more volume in bullish options versus I guess that's another bet that if Trump manufacturing stance, smaller companies in the US. But it also feels like all year people excuse for why they want to invest in argument. For big caps, but good for small caps. internationally focused, but mass I mean, if you really deport 15 million expect labor prices to shoot sky high. on those. costs are still relatively high. And the Fed looks like it's going to cut Yeah. So there's a lot of cross-currents. Yeah. article that I wrote last week was that specifically small caps, don't really I got to cut you off, Emily. But we are going to honor 2 minutes of Day. Exchange and the Nasdaq. All right. You're taking a look at futures now with You can see we have another rally on our saw last week. week, the best weekly performance of It looks like it will continue today. You have big tech participating as well, And then you have the small caps in Russell 2000 of about 9/10 of a percent. with Emily Profile about how people are The small caps are now in a big way in And then you think about all the rates might be here to stay, that could companies. point about those crosscurrents. You were talking about labor cost I think we were talking about this a David Zervos over at Jefferies making Yes, complicated argument about the idea But really what he's saying is that the flattening yield curve. that maybe long term rates won't be so lower, but so might government spending, That's a big might be that might be Yeah. lot last week. opponents, took seriously Trump's threat But no one took seriously the idea that Funny how that goes. All right. Friday. 6000. bell today. again in futures. continues and we could hit and breach today. York Stock Exchange. Stock Exchange opening bell is down on Armistice Day. You have leaders representing veteran So a real focus there on honoring the I don't know why we're still trading If we really honor the veterans, I feel If we did, though, we wouldn't get And Katie Greifeld, it looks like we did Yeah, sorry. 6000. And I will point out that the bond So one of those strange days. This rally is building right now. That's enough to vaulted over 6000. also higher by about two, 3%, 2 to 3 That is then you take a look at the all the action is. are being expressed and they've shown up by about another 1% so far today. individual movers and we start with That's after CIGNA confirmed it will not Cigna also reaffirming its 2024 outlook. course, Cigna. 8%. down about 5%. at Coinbase. It's been at the highest level since Remember, cryptocurrency is soaring by There's a prospect of a pro crypto days guys is up almost 10% this morning But over a seven day period, it's So a lot of hope here that potential red All right. Tesla as investors bet on Elon Musk's I was listening to critic Gupta this He said it might be a Trump trade. trade. worth more than $1,000,000,000,000, than $300 billion. Trump trade as well, which is crypto. Doolittle. Well, we see bitcoin at a new record Crypto, absolutely a piece of the Trump Given the idea, the sense that the Trump and that if there is a trifecta, a red DC, that there could be members of All this again has bitcoin at an all So we can really see the Trump piece of Bitcoin ETFs. went bonkers. ETF and you can see lots of green here Trump trade really taking off a couple But again, last week, that massive together with some of the crypto ETFs on So there's that Bitcoin ETF up 7% two And then MicroStrategy and Merrill significant ways. And Katie, it's super interesting been interesting, but a lot of these to life with the anticipation of the Absolutely. And let's keep that conversation going investment strategist and chief the desk now. Could see. So the election is in the rearview Talk to us through how your physician's changed since then. equities have risen as 65% of the world. were 6% overweight. mid-cap U.S. you're a little bit worried about how about equities that are still about 5% valuation, about a third less than large You know, so there's been a very big I think that there's some catching up if It's really a story of haves and have I mean, global equities are trading at Excuse me. 13 times forward EPS. cautious about the effects of a rising If we had a red sweep, and that's So it's cheaper entry point, but we're that. mid-cap in particular, because there are interest costs. uncertainties about future labor costs. job force changing, the workforce all that mean? distinguish a little bit from a cyclical I think deregulation, this whole thing It certainly includes financials. paradise for troubled companies is a And so we're exploring this through relatively lower debt burdens that are So if you take a look at the S&amp;P 406 the specifics. and they're a little lower in beta. quite as much as, again, the lowest But we think that that these are really opposed to Russell 2000. quite a while now, and I'm sure like me, so much cash on the sidelines. investors, institutional investors have So they'll be able to fuel a continued How much do you how much faith do you You know, I'm a little troubled by by some of the stock market money and add But I think it's really the change, The build up in cash, the delta, which Now, again, that's been coming down But if you look right behind us, you in cash from the sidelines. that have been rolling T-bills and rates come down. could be some performance chasing again So I do think there's something there. There's a lot of debate here about where It's been holding pretty steady at 4.3%. Is the direction of travel higher? adjusted our views again on the red First off, every Fed easing cycle has Right. we can move back and forth on this But Fed tightening periods have been Flatness and easing cycles will be The Federal Reserve is not going to make going to do. fiscal policy will change more 2025. Congress and there's a big process But if we have, again, some promises of that the Federal Reserve doesn't cut Maybe it's another move and maybe it's If the economy is firm, as we think, 22, 2023 that we're actually recovering You'll see a curve steepening, and financials. bond market, given how low yields are But, you know, we have a little more people would like to see a healthier It is not exactly what Jeffrey said out flatter there. a little bit again about how you environment. investment letter from BlackRock's model they're basically positioning for broad specific sectors, making specific calls I'm wondering how you're thinking of risk on allocations versus getting a Well, I would just say that we'll find pretty specific, but we've traded win, what will be the makeup of Congress what can get implemented, what are the What's the process? administration and who the choices are I think that you'll find that the it's certainly better to be specific Western Hemisphere and, you know, or the But I think for now we have to live with knowledge about what comes in. value still. broad in the equity market. Magnificent Seven. joining us here on set this Monday. Now, there's one stock we are watching The shares are sinking after two trials failed to meet its goals. 11.5%. since March of 2020. it? who have been having more success with a Yeah. AbbVie. outperforming the S&amp;P 500 on a year to But clearly that drug trial really But to your point, Bristol-Myers Squibb, You think back to September, they gained schizophrenia drug in seven decades. Bristol-Myers Squibb up about 11% to Pretty much money in the door, money out Now, coming up, we mentioned Bitcoin and Trump will put the US at the center of We're going to talk more about that This is Bloomberg. Welcome back to Bloomberg Open Interest. underway in the stock market. tune of about 3/10 of a percent. I can't say the same for the Nasdaq 100. now. territory, but the small caps hanging on The Russell 2000 currently higher by Finally. traders bet that Trump will usher in a That means Bitcoin is now at an all time While stocks like Marathon Digital and We're going to bring in modified CEO Bitcoin hit 82,000 or more, but how much You know, how much is this the by the At the end of the day, especially when we were up, up, up. we're up, up, up. Took everything. That's a good. Chief yet. regulatory agencies outside of that. Well, first of all, thanks for having me I would say the the markets still have a right now is primarily institutional It's people that have been soaking up exchange liquidations and and now those But retail hasn't come back in. orders that are coming in, they're You're not seeing drips and drabs like your Uber driver checking their now. market can go considerably higher. institutional interest in this run up On the other hand, Doge has run further I think it's up 80 some percent year to How come people are buying this and tell buying dogecoin. dogecoin. They're not large buys. put my put my bet on it, I would say something with Twitter and make it into resistant qualities. can use to monetize a platform in sort of prohibiting, you know, their around that and a way to monetize the It may not be the only token that that to to work that in in order to continue speech restrictions in jurisdictions Just to tie a bow on the Dogecoin watching right now and you're buying Come on with us. But Frank, let's talk a little bit more institution when it comes to Bitcoin. Bitcoin ETFs, which are seeing so much And at first blush, you might think their brokerage platforms. come in through the wrapper. feel a lot of hedge fund managers feel A lot, actually, a lot more left in this left out. and it's a really easy way to be to be when you're looking at the compliance It's it's a it's a great way to get And I think, you know, it's it's going It's going to work for retail investors. involved in the market. you said Bitcoin could go materially What's the price target? year? was 100 K by the end of the year when it I think, you know, given where we're at, next year. reach this year as well. Coinbase take off, I mean, any number of On that note, I wonder about modified. trading, maybe equities trading using Just give us the quick elevator pitch Yes. to to forecast asset prices. to fine tune them. crypto asset predictions, but we're over equities and commodities forecasting. soon after the new year. of course. it's just wild. chart of Bitcoin. still have people coming out with those But here we are, $82,000. You know, you think about the impact was funded by A16z and Coinbase, how ballot races. regulation moving forward. finally as some of the the FCC a potentially new chief, the SEC chair new admin as well. him. Gensler being gone and all of that bringing in new regulation. point, will embrace maybe has written Coming up, President elect Trump short listed Scott Bessant and everyone We'll take a look at those picks in This is bloomberg. And it's time now for the Wall Street Today we're looking at who may be the elect Trump weighs his options. Washington correspondent Selena mohsin. You are so steeped in this subject. person that looks like he's going to on that Treasury list earlier on, now candidates. What does Lighthizer a trade mean for Well, one thing actually, I want to Bloomberg did publish a story today that we've learned that between Election Day the past few days, Bob Lighthizer was He was not offered the job to return to first Trump administration. for Treasury. and I pay extra close attention to them Scott Bessant you want to buy that at And the next biggest is Howard Lutnick So is this a pretty lopsided race? very likely to get the nod? It's not a race, right? There is no polling. reporting, one person votes. So we don't know whether Boston is up Paulson is up. It's going to come down to what the We know that the list of potential down by the end of this week, and then hopefully an announcement. down to Donald Trump. And we know that he's getting advice, of Bloomberg has reported that those close Zelaya for Treasury, perhaps he should experience. And that's exactly what President Trump was president in 2017 to 2021. Goldman Sachs pedigree. secretaries that he may be considering Street pedigree. that that's what he's going to go for. So, Leah, thanks so much for joining us. I thought you were going to get some election. 24 seven reporting schedule. Yeah, it feels like this list got Yeah, that's true. course, Howard Lutnick has been names. need to fill. of the top slots Treasury secretary, the But to her most important point, think the list looks like. says. speculating about speculation, but we'll So, you know, it'll move on faster than Anyways, coming up in the next hour, talk about deregulation across energy And we'll talk with Edgewell CEO Rod potential tariffs on suntan lotion. All right. trading day. I'm Matt Miller Sonali Basak. And coming up, corporate earnings set to stocks as the focus returns to economic victory. House win a victory that would put And bracing for terror. suppliers to diminish that threat. this hour. on these markets right now. gains, the NASDAQ 100 slipping into the You take a look at big declines in Weighing on the big tech index. way. Of course, as that front trades still companies. underneath the surface. stocks and open the second largest five years following the presidential And the Fed's decision in Italian N.J, optionality. So we do see that hedge funds bought a was mainly driven by buying in macro So these are these macro products. large cap as well as small cap ETFs now stocks. we do see that consumer discretionary week. course, is also considered to be one of Buying in financials was the largest However, on a year to date basis, we see it's way below positioning is way below Then on the flip side, we do see that and staples. out of defensive stocks to more cyclical We've seen volatility come way down. index, how are options traders Right. largest ETFs versus the S&amp;P 500. complicated, but to make it super chart in a little bit more opposite So let's, for example, look at energy. on energy going into the US election That energy sector has become a little index after the vote. as well as industrials. sectors like materials and consumer This shows that for those specific or less willing to pay for hedges versus So we could potentially see that a materials and consumer services sectors. Bloomberg's Natalia Kanae Jovic there Joining us to talk further about is Nima Northstar Investment Management. I guess people are trying to sort of and translate that into policy. close your eyes and buy in a big Good morning. You know, one of the things that we've healthy the economic backdrop is. The consumers, you know, there are the GDP estimates keep getting revised And on top of that, we have a Fed, which You know, we got the 50 basis point cut this, we have a Republican sweep and an deregulation, corporate tax cuts. of a market going on here. right now is discounting only all the What we don't know is the impact of the You know, you've talked about this and deportations, mass deportation. policy acts with the lags. So for right now, it seems like animals, But as we take a longer term reasons not to go all in and, you know, Well, later on, of course, where you see think about the earnings season that we It was kind of underwhelming. relative to the past one year, the past flies in the ointment, could slowing them? discounting forward, right? was a mixed bag and there was a lot of drivers for each company. companies where we had low expectations On the other side, what we heard across this delay in investment, because, you held back by what's going to happen to happen with the election. mirrors. some momentum build through that, where actually now invest back in the U.S. forward. don't know is that the impact of tariffs We saw this in 2018 where right off the tariffs were implemented, but then it culprit started to figure out their Matt made the point we were up on the S&amp;P 6000 Exciting moment, markets But then you look at the Nasdaq 100, the Philadelphia Semiconductor index, all And so why do you think that divergence Do you think that holds? struggle as we head into the next year? Like a rising tide lifts all boats type The tech, the Nasdaq have been very been The Magnificent Seven have been the and through the first half of 2024. money to work, where is that going? stocks that haven't participated. simplistic way to look at it. Not all stocks are created equal. syncretic drivers for each stock and And especially not to forget the whole think there's an upward pressure on So you can't ignore that. and companies that can withstand some of Looking forward, of course, what what happens for the rest of the year, It looks like tension. tech stocks drag the S&amp;P down today from But for the rest of the year, I wonder you know, an actual Trump administration on who's going to lead different cabinet positions. If we look at historically, right, we if we have a scenario that's really tax cuts, the bias is towards an upward, equity markets. have interest declines. period in the 1980s, one of the best market returns every year on average, we I'm not answering your question because We take a little bit of a longer term even in the best of markets, we are Point taken on the forecast itself feels So in any case, I am curious how you are expecting this intra year How do you construct a portfolio in Haiti. We know what we want to own and the kind We are bottom up stock pickers, the kind more of their fortunes under their own So one of the examples I love to give is Republican sweep or not. You know, people age over 65. expected to double over the next three So we're very focused on identifying solutions for this type of cohort. What are the names? Yeah, the one that I want to talk about Stryker is known for their knee and hip 60,000 products. They're like orthopedic, spine, are used across the board. people might be getting older, but we lifestyles. expected to have secular tailwinds. execution, track record, healthy balance So those are the type of names we would If we get opportunities during a there. that has had a very strong bid on the I know you're trying to look at what moves here in the financials. another day of every single stock in the Goldman Sachs, Morgan Stanley both Wells Fargo just soaring as well. happening in the bond market, the yield today. Friday as well, then it was in the prior. that steepened or do you think. You know, the financials, not all And I'll start off by saying that we've on financials, both under the Trump administration. a sector underperformed the market. there are definitely stocks that tend to So, you know, the yield curve has been Right? the ten year, and now we're looking at So a lot of fluctuation going on, a lot We think that the pressure is upward on The Fed here is cutting, but they might end up seeing with the tariffs, and tariffs and so forth. way or the other. out, see how this all shakes out. where we think they're going to be okay yield curve. They're getting definitely a bit in this All right. Nimrod Kang there of North Star Coming up, we're going to go back into House win. the Senate. czar and what else could happen with a This is Bloomberg. Let's get now to high interest to look world. Russian President Vladimir Putin had a Trump, calling it, quote, pure fiction. plans yet for any contact between the Now, President Trump is weighing in on In a post on true social over the to be the next Senate majority leader appointments to his Cabinet. Senator Rick Scott after he backed and Republicans are edging closer to The latest tallies show them ahead with Democrats, a majority would give Congress, as well as the executive And I believe there are still 19 races California is particularly slow in terms Let's stay on politics. is Bloomberg politics editor Laura Laura, correct me if I'm wrong, 19 races How likely are the Republicans to take a Right now, they are very strongly You know, just because of the broader breaking their way, this race, plus just ahead of where the Democrats are right This looks like they will have a House And you already see Republicans starting wise. tax cuts, when it comes to immigration, types of policies are looking for if Senate and, of course, Trump in the And, Laura, talk to us about the request making these appointments. session. How likely is that to happen? Yeah, this is very unusual. where they have what they call pro forma They basically sort of gavel in on the And that just means that they're and that the president of the White while they're out of town. time. trying to tighten his grip on Senate term was sort of his greatest check on Republicans had had a full sweep. kind of imposing some of these loyalty majority leader. He will still be in the Senate. who are who are vying to be that top And this is is sort of really how you look, I am Trump's number one guy here. week, Laura, but what about the House as Because we're getting closer to figuring Senate will turn, whether there will be What do we know so far and what are some watching that could change the course of Yeah. the lead that they have now in the House budget reconciliation. know, Washington gobbledygook. they only need a simple majority on key So Trump's tax cut bill, which will be to expire. House on a simple majority and avoid the So they don't need to get 60 votes in They just need to get 50. of what this bill can be instead of, you relatively narrow discussion about the getting a little bit, if they want concessions, it can now be a total We could see some of the things that trail, like no tax on tips, a further All of that is on the table if So personally, I only care about salt market, lower the corporate tax rate is And I think it's pretty interesting that it to 15%, he often qualified that by manufacture in America in order to get That seems very complicated to Is that going to be something that will Absolutely. this is they say, okay, we're going to It's pretty vague and then take it to what those details actually look like. But particularly something like that, That could create a lot of loopholes or You know, Congress should spend a little That's a lot more difficult than just, rate from 21 to 15%. Republicans are able to pick up a bunch state and local tax tax deduction is a New York and California. expire. salt next year. Well, and he promised Donald Trump out there rescind the deduction, cap. Bloomberg's Laura Davison in Washington, We thank you so very much for your Now we're also taking a look at some you not only have Bitcoin flying past according to the Bloomberg dollar index, We have seen the steady float higher. without critical appointments that we We were talking about the Lighthizer House, uncertainty around what those But the market is betting on America. as you can tell right now, is paying just, of course, to the direction of And that's what you're seeing in the markets and digital currency markets. expectations for Fed cuts. Because if you expected more Fed cuts for the dollar. Exactly. I think only three cuts now are priced You look at the euro and the peso and as well. correct as well. we're going to talk about Chinese They aren't buying Gucci bags, but they pants. Bloomberg. All right. The company is making waves this And first up, just another manic Monday. down Monday. quarter with the software maker also will step down, Shares down about 18%. shoppers. cutting down on the amount of shoes that The company's CEO is also reportedly checkout counters in the women's And finally, a slowdown in China isn't yoga pants. topped 40% by 2026. account for $13 billion in sales, which China than on Apple or Starbucks. Lulu shares up about 1.7%. markets right now. You can see the s&amp;p 500 still green, at Of course, we are just on the knife's The Nasdaq 100 down a little bit right And the ten year Treasury yield, the remembrance of Veterans Day. tariffs. He is edgewell personal care, the ceo This is bloomberg. President elect Trump has pledged to put CEOs around the world are preparing The company behind Banana Boat and contracts now to help control costs down Many companies depend on Chinese chemicals, a lot of which aren't Joining us now is rob Little. and CEO as well. Force academy. country in the air force. especially on this Veteran's Day. which you're dependent for some of your Why aren't they available elsewhere? Good morning, Matt. And thanks to all the veterans and those give us the freedoms that we all have Look, the the environment around supply right now with there's a lot more last couple of years. we might go with tariffs. actually think we're fairly companies and that about half our sales manufacture around the world and we we make products. chain. example, we make and source right here, chemical wise you mentioned specialty don't exist in the states and we have to case to go sourced those materials. our cost basket would be subject to We think based on on where they might unaffected. types of industries that just don't from an investment standpoint to make Then, you know, we, like everyone else, cost in some cases. those materials sourced outside of the small of your overall basket, just 5% materials that you can't get in the US. passing those costs on to consumers? versus when it comes to either What are you thinking? productivity. to generate increased cost productivity inflation that we face. finished, we, we grew gross margins by a So we have margins up with very little productivity work that we do or we try doesn't care about. looking at how we can optimize our end unnecessary cost, we think we can cost productivity and that will be where headwinds that may come via tariffs. dollar is perhaps one of them. How do you think of it? analysts that it could continue to be a much? year ahead. One of the headwinds we do face is a And so those like us that operate around our longest exposure, for example, is to And so as the dollar strengthens versus just less valuable as we have to put That's what our investors want. transactions and trades to bring our there is there's an impact we're on now. impact or a headwind to our business the strength of the dollar? from here based on what I'm reading, and Again, cost productivity is some of the We also look at where we do our business over time. and trying to manage in some rates. to longer term. But in the moment we're in a strong that operate outside the US with about a headwind through this period. potentially is lower oil prices. oils and all of the polyethylene into our business, that's a little bit So there are some natural offsets, but the strength of the dollar. rate, But President Trump has qualified his know, talking about the fact that he who manufacture in the US. Connecticut. What does your production chain look We would benefit from that. the United States. Connecticut and Tennessee. stay free. We're the only manufacturer that sells production. this in this region. Beach, Florida, just outside of Daytona. in its space we make in Sydney, Ohio. We're proud of that and we think we environment going forward. That is Rod Little of Edgewell personal everything that we're seeing across his see a new administration. Bitcoin here, and I'm a little bit Bitcoin surging past $84,000. top of the hour, so 36 minutes ago you bitcoin, if you wanted to spend $81,000, I mean, the rise is just stunning. just today. for bitcoin and not a stunning as it was Yeah, it was up more than 6% yesterday. As we can move 10% on the day. asset. You think about Bitcoin, it is just So the fact that it's rising so much and much of a surprise. It'll be interesting to see when that downside. Bitcoin had all time highs. more traditional markets right now. Well, the Trump trade rally, it Katie, take a look at the S&amp;P 500. looking at a fifth up day in a row for these last five sessions. back to November of last year. streak of this year having to do with Trump trade and the possibility, the red sweep in D.C. an easier time pushing through some of could be tariffs against China. There are some idiosyncratic reasons looked all members of the stocks down, revenue, of course, from China. This could reflect some of abatement of Middle East. largest or excuse me, the largest user So tariffs against that region could But there's that Bitcoin that you all Bitcoin. In fact, if we take a look at Bitcoin at stocks in such a way. index, the all country index having a But the bitcoin complex up nearly 100% of the September lows, which is when the And then finally beneath the surface Coinbase, not surprisingly rallying in a Tesla, another piece of the Trump trade probably at this point, closer to 40% Elon Musk, of course, a big supporter, elect Trump, and also the thought that administration will in fact help one of those chip stocks that receives So one of those laggards. case since 2022. dot com we don't know for name one There are some companies like MongoDB name. name one Monday One day is a great name it is a monday and it has a case of the Let yourself have fun. that story me internally are pretty you know my side of the let me tell you say. It's entirely risk appetite. Why is going to go higher and why? There's just not much new, but I just Yeah. 80%. for superlatives, but not a lot of meat I feel like there's so much support. March. And under that the price is worth what Yeah. We're going to talk about this during When we come back from that, we'll get Cohen Circle co-founder Betsy Cohen purpose acquisition companies. This is Bloomberg. Well, it's time for our Wall Street Week acquisition vehicles, SPACs, if you They first appeared in the nineties. 2020s, and David Weston spoke with Cohen progression of SPACs and how they It was thought of being a shortcut. frame may be a couple of months shorter, be different, It's really if it's properly executed, needs. what they call a regular way of IPO is around brand names. known to retail investors who now maybe that's a good choice, but it's The spec has evolved over the last as a vehicle to not only provide access but to reorganize the company's capital And that can't be done in a straight But the the SPAC is actually a merger So there's a lot more flexibility. particularly over the last couple of raised capital in a variety of ways and now they need to sort that out. appropriate, looking forward markets. look at the company's capital structure certain way in 2022. us going forward. they go to the public market. that needs to get access to capital, why do I go through a SPAC rather than IPO? One, as I said, you have an opportunity issuance form as your device. to provide investors with a forward look And many of the companies that use the And that was Betsy Cohen speaking to And David, great conversation because it lumped into the silly season of the the nineties and they're a sober, go public. betrayed, I went into this thinking this is. SEC rules. Some people tried to use it that way. You had some sponsors who were not the real function for these SPACs for There's particularly very fast growth, restructure what they're doing. She's done over ten of them, actually. Are SPACs making a comeback? What we did is we didn't call it this, We said, let's go back and look at some rage among us here at Bloomberg for a And now you don't hear about quite so You know, you remember a couple of years them didn't do so well. Remember smart beta, that was way to go. So we take a look at that and we also go really doesn't remember who that was. said just before Black Monday, go to And she was totally right. these sort of one hit wonders? Was there anything to them? conversations, of course, on Wall Street Great to see you to start the week. Friday at 6 p.m. This is Bloomberg. Well, this was the late breaking news on That is BlackRock filing for two money Joining us now is Eric Balchunas. Bloomberg Intelligence. Mondays, but we have to talk about this Money Market ETF that launched, I a stable $1 anyway. And by the way, the fact that you're on Friday evening speaks to the I'm I do I have to make some calls Yeah. market mutual funds have $6 trillion and You know, a short term Treasury ETF is they call them short term Treasury ETFs. This is saying, hey, why don't we just short term Treasury ETF and see what So to me, this is a lot of labeling. treasuries, no asset backed. market from Texas funds is has some it's close to treasuries. They claim they can go and pick out funds. It's just not the stable NAV. that came out, it's a $100 NAV since it I mean, the decimals after the 100 decimals if you go out far enough. Whether they should label it money that's a question that you could ask What kind of interest do you expect for Because it's interesting to see these We have seen money market assets be draw money from? late. would have been like two years ago when when we saw the huge rush of money go Is the correct graphic, by the way, we That's true. But it's it is interesting that even rate cuts, there's still all of this investors and issuers as well. curve is been a hot spot for ETF. there. in their portfolio. about how we think the 6 trillion in FOMO because the stock market just is And every time it goes up this much, So right now, it's a tough sell. lot of fish are biting in that short a little extra yield for them. market label, maybe good things will You have 30 seconds. Is this for institutions? money market funds? I don't think an institution would buy I think they need that dollar. You want that NAV to be a dollar I think this is more for the retail and know, kind of show, okay, we got a money There's also going to be a little minus Vanguard's, right? come to market with is they'll be twice some of this other money market funds. is who this is for. hour for ETF IQ. intelligence. eastern along with Scarlet Fu. markets right now. performance of 2020 for you. the S&amp;P 500 Matt Miller still higher and as well. go negative on the S&amp;P and after we saw like two and a half percent. It was Tesla that was holding us up and We'll see if it holds this up for the So down the smallcap guys. Coming out tomorrow on open interest, David Lefkowitz from UBS.