- Hey I'm Matt today we're going to using Ambrosia Maple. Let me show you how I did it. The very first thing I got to do is cut down this beautiful into manageable lengths so that I could build a tabletop, N' I cut it just over five foot long. (saw grinding ) So here's the dealeo. This, these two are kind of cupped, just a little bit. And the way to take that cup out is to run it through a planer, hand plane it, face joining if it was wide enough. These panels are about 14 inches wide and a I've got a 13 inch planer. So what I'm going to do is cut about an inch off of each panel put it on my planer sled, run it through that way Now I'm just ripping by about (upbeat music playing) The bow that it has in there You can see there's a gap I'm just going to shim thin strips that I just So I'm gonna put that on the planer sled. Now it's time to run it through I get hung up on this hose and really caused me some trouble. Move the hose out of the way. Now that I got it going, I just plane one side down with the planer sled and then I flipped it Planing the other side to get a flat surface. Then I took it over to the jointer and jointed one edge of each board. Check the description below as well as all the supplies I got these pretty close They're not perfect, but (upbeat music playing) Thundery. (upbeat music playing) Look at all this stuff. (tools clanking) Got it glued up. It's fairly flat. I had to use these cross pieces there to keep it from actually wanting to kick up. Pretty typical when you're You want to put some pieces across this is just 2x4 ripped, and then it's just a piece of onebasix, onebasix, same thing in the middle. I just put one on the middle, one on each end and then just clamp 'em down good. That should be good. We're going to let this dry. Now it's time to start and I just cut these apron pieces down to manageable lengths. Then I jointed one edge Then I cut out the pieces for the legs out of the wider stock. Then I moved my table, saw and a half inches and started (saw grinding) I had no idea how much difference a very very good blade makes. And I'm a huge fan of these CMT blades. I got, I bought one for the Miter saw and then quickly got two So I've used 731CMT10@taytools.com You'll get 10% off these blades. I'll drop a link in description below. They're worth it. Once I had the wide stock for the legs and the I took them over to the planer and I planed 'em all down Then what had happened was the shot back field up and I didn't stop. I just unplugged the hose. And now we got a miss. Remember a few weeks back, with the Micro jig Dovetail System. It's also can double as a tapering jig. All I've done is put a miter that I have the exact And what I'm going to do is and an eighth and I What that's going to do is give me a 5 to 2.5 taper, and I've just lined these marks up with the edge of my jig. That way I don't really have to build a bunch of spacers of stops all over here. I just measure over, They should be very, And we'll do that for four legs. Let's do it! Let's do it! Let's do it! (saw grinding) I wanted to make sure all of these legs were exactly the same. So I just double-sided taped 'em together and then run each side of this on the jointer that way And that's just in case on the joint and jig. Of course you could actually add some stock blocks and stuff to the jig and make it a little more So I know that I want the frame to be 48 inches I've got these cut at 10 degrees on the top and the bottom parallel angles. So I'm just going to measure over. So I went ahead and cut one of the aprons at a 15 degree angles because I'm just going to measure over and make sure we're at 48 inches here from outside the outside. Once that's done, I'll just make a mark. Once I have this one marked I'll cut this at a 15 degree angle and then I'll just duplicate And again, if it's not perfect, You're not making a clock so long as these two pieces are the same. You'll be fine. (upbeat music playing) So for each end apron, I sent my saw on 10 degree angle and then I ripped a 10 on each side of that piece. (upbeat music playing) Loading your legs. You've got a square side and then we've got the tapered side. You want to turn the of the miter saw and cut And then a parallel angle, I want my desktop to be And so that's what I've got here. So I've cut these legs from the long side of the bottom of the angle of the dangle. So I'm at about 29 and of the bottom angle to the And then once you put the and the desktop, it Give or take. You're not building a clock. I've already cut this one to length. So I'm just going to use it as (upbeat music playing) So I have a Milescraft Doweling Jig and it's awesome if you're drilling into a square piece, So I made a little doweling jig. So I'll just drill to I cut it off. This is a 15 degree angle just as these are then I, one side square, one size 15 degree angle on just pieces of plywood on each side. So I've got a line drawn Right there. And then on the doweling jig itself, I have a line drawn that center of that hole. Slide this on. Then I can just line those lines up like that, clamp it down, drill the hole. Do the same thing there on all the sides and let's hope that worked. The Milescraft Dowel Jig So I can set the depth and I've got about a little over halfway of (drill pulsating) Worst case scenario, (drill pulsating) Full disclosure. This is my first time ever doweling two pieces of wood together. As far as I can remember. If it's a little off I wouldn't really be that surprised. Yeah, it's a little off That's all right. I can deal with that. Once I had everything fit like I wanted, I started sanding and I sanding up to And then I just squared up each edge with a straight edge of the circular saw. I made the total length of the table five foot long. So I've got it about halfway sanded and got a problem. I don't know which side I want up. Both sides look so good. I've got to make a decision up so I can use that So in case you don't know it's a hardwood, but Like you would think of has all of these imperfections in there, these holes, some spots that could Basically what happens is from what I gather, a Beetles get into the woods and it makes this imperfection of the main reasons I is because it is so imperfect That's why we got the Cross. So Totalboat sent me this penetrating epoxy. It's for wood that is that kind of thing. So it actually helps solidify it, but you just a 2:1 mixture We're gonna try it. Let's do it. In the description below there's a code if you want to save I got you a discount on there. So we're going to mix this, two parts resin one part hardener. And I'm just going to use this scale. It's on the back. There's a 2:1 scale right there. Now I gotta stir for two minutes and this stuff has a and there's no VOC's. Super clear, so that's a good thing. So the idea is this will soak into the Solidify. And I applied this penetrating I'm doing the ends just to It went on really easy. It was very easy to work with. It takes about 24 hours to dry. The can says 48, but I waited 24. Per-day. Make sure there's no puddles. Seems like that'd be a Don't call me Puddles. (upbeat music playing) You should probably go over there. So that way I don't get in the way Try that. You should be able Dry fit, is what I'm doing now. I want to make sure that it's not a total screw up. I know that it's not perfect. And I'm okay with that. You should be okay with it too if you're stuff don't We're not perfect people. We're not gonna create perfect things. I'm gonna keep saying that, And this is my first dowel project. I'm going a little easier on myself. (upbeat music playing) So I'm gonna glue this up. Cut some slots with table top fasteners. And it'll be ready. Ooh! (upbeat music playing) So, fun fact for you. If you make that epoxy up in the plastic cup that they sent, don't set it over in the corner because it starts steaming and melting the little plastic cup. So I put it outside and I didn't know that it would melt the cup, but I do now. Now we're fixing the glue, the frame up and everything clamped And then we'll be ready to rock and roll. These are just 3/8's inch dowels. Put a glue on there. I ain't afraid of no glue. I kinda like glue. Where that mallet at? (tools clanking) Son of a nutcracker. (upbeat music playing) She ain't gon' be perfect. She gon' be far from it. The joint thing don't - [Mrs.731] I think it'll look perfect. - Let's go ahead and note that right now. - [Mrs.731] Baby, you gotta have faith. No, I already know how they lining up. - [Mrs.731] Babe. - But it'll still be all right. - [Mrs.731] It's going to be perfect. (upbeat music playing) - Then I just clamped everything down nice and snug with a bunch of clamps and got everything tight. And then I'll just let it sit and dry. Be sure to check the description below there'll be a link to a set of full build Got that dude clamped up. That's where these Harbor Freights, these silver clamps you see, those are Harbor Freights 60 inch clamps. They're perfect for that, for and they do a good job. If I did this very often and I would probably just It would be so much faster. That same, very small 45 degree I'm gonna do the same thing Just to keep them from splitting or whatever, people say that. I don't know if it's true. I'm doing it. (drill pulsating) I think. Yeah, let's do it. (upbeat music playing) Alright. So my doweling method, wasn't perfect. And then you can see here, where they're not exactly perfect. And I just need to practice some more. I'm okay with that. I'm really am. I mean, they're pretty consistent. probably a 64th or so, except for this one, which is way off. I don't know what I did. It's about an eighth inch. I'm going to actually just take it on the table saw, my little sled and rip the very top of this off about an eighth inch to make Again, I'm not perfect. I've never claimed to be perfect but I'm trying to learn new things. Once the glue is dry, I and I just started I just wanted to make or any rough edges. Anything like that. Next thing to do is cut out just a 1/8 inch straight bit. I've got a video just If you want to check it out, After 24 hours, I come back and I started sanding and I went all the way up to 220 on the whole tabletop. So that I have a nice, smooth surface to spray my finish onto. And don't text and sand, that's not good. (message alerts chimes) (message alert chimes) I picked this set of three It's like a hundred dollars for all three. And now that I have a little what a perfect time to pick these up. Comes the three different sizes. And then it also has this Let's do it. And for the finish, I'm just going to clear I don't want to stain it. I want it to actually look natural. So I'm using 15% lacquer I use Watco brand. And then I just poured using a strainer. Make sure you strain this stuff so you don't get any you know, that kind of (upbeat music playing) Make sure you got a mask. And the reason I'm spraying indoors is because it was coming a storm, this day. (upbeat music playing) Ha. This thing is looking sweet. True story. I've been a little nervous and things like that. That's why I always went with Wanting to up my game a So I'm using lacquer this time. This stuff is so easy to use and it is butter smooth. I'm gonna go ahead and and you probably will see a I really don't have a whole It's actually pretty smooth as is. The finish is phenomenal. Phenomenal. You can feel a little bit I want to make sure and hit those before I put the final coat on. I'm actually going to because I don't want lacquer on this lens. (light spray) (upbeat music playing) I actually ended up putting and about four coats of just I don't think it come out fantastic. And this is a super smooth, I'm talking butter smooth finish. It is so easy to use lacquer. I had no idea it was so easy to use it. It come out near flawless after it's dry. It even looks a little rough here, but another 10 or 15 minutes after this, it was so super smooth. I'm very impressed with Now it's time to install using those same method that I use with the tabletop fasteners. Very easy to use. Get it on there nice and secure. Now we're going to replace this mess. Get this ugly plastic table out of there. Move this beautiful desk into place and get everything set up nice and tidy. This project would not have been possible without Mr. Mark Puente from Check him out wtghardwoods.com. He is an awesome dude. A little bit about Working they started out in their That is amazing to me. I love companies that start in the garage cause that's where I'm at. Mr. Mark's wife wanted you know more than the average you should open your own distributor. So in 2020, he did just that. And he wants to help people learn more about hardwoods. Working The Grain has 25 exotic species as well as 10 domestic as well as turning supplies So go check 'em out. (serene music playing) I am so happy with how this desk came out. Woo. You can do it too. It's not that hard. Hey, if you liked this video, It's going to take you to Clicking that box gets you Thank you for watching.