It's a drug beloved by World War II soldiers, here are 50 insane facts about meth! And just Fact Fifty! As the saying goes, life imitates art, there have been quite a few One of them was literal: a man named, you Most Wanted list in Tuscaloosa, Alabama He wasn't a teacher, but don't who followed in the fictional In 2011, a 74-year-old math professor from a meth lab. Then, in 2012, William Duncan, a Texas, was accused of cooking and selling meth. to undercover cops in the parking lot of the Fact Forty-Nine! Ever wondered what the iconic blue crystals radio interview, Walter White According to Bryan Cranston, it was cotton &quot;vile tasting pieces of sugar.&quot; He who played Jesse, was getting By that we mean he was eating Aaron. Speaking of Breaking Fact Forty-Eight! Was there any truth to the idea of Hollywood magic? According to USA Today, his product with blue chalk, referring to But the color wasn't the only part of Breaking Fact Forty-Seven! According to DEA Spokesman Steve Robertson, there in California, Nevada, Washington, Idaho, Texas, flavors included strawberry, chocolate, and Fact Forty-Six! You probably don't associate meth with a case ingredients used to treat the common cold has Pseudoephedrine, used as a decongestant was once available over the counter. However, after it became known as the ingredient of it's a whole lot harder to treat cold and flu Fact Forty-Five! Like many of the most infamous illegal drugs, medical setting, and it was potentially Dr. Max Jacobson, a doctor to earned the nickname &quot;Dr. Feelgood'' His treatments just so happened to include amphetamines and methamphetamines from mysterious drug cocktails - which may Just a few people you might have heard Nelson Rockefeller, and John F Jacobson was injecting amphetamines into his back pain. His unusual and unethical exposed by the New York Times in 1972, and Which, you know, makes sense. His Fact Forty-Four! Speaking of the dentist, meth anyone that needs to be put under Not only does meth interact with anesthesia, the risk of heart failure during surgeons may need to perform an ultrasound is functioning. So, if your surgeon they're probably not trying to be a narc! They're Fact Forty-Three! One of the most infamous side mouth,&quot; or extreme tooth decay. First, meth use reduces saliva production. tooth enamel. If saliva production is reduced, worn away. Meth users will also often clench Add in the fact that many meth users consume the decreased blood to oral tissues lesions in the gums and cheeks caused with the likelihood that prolonged oral pain or seek medical attention, and Fact Forty-Two! Meth is often associated with rural America today, Chemist Nagai Nagayoshi ephedrine - more on that later - in 1893. Later, in 1919. The process by which he synthesized meth iodine, and ephedrine, and is a process Nice to know that humble, small-town Fact Forty-One! So what's the deal with ephedrine? Ephedrine is a chemical derived from Ephedra, It has been used in traditional Chinese medicine and symptoms of cold and flu such as It can be distilled into a chemical form known chemical like pseudoephedrine. That's right, be used to make meth, pseudoephedrine can be used in supplements for weight loss, energy, and Fact Forty! So remember how ephedra has been the American pharmaceutical industry Big Pharma company Smith, Kline, and French marketed for the treatment of asthma and nasal a prescription, and people quickly caught on In order to prevent abuse of the inhalers, Benzedrine. They hoped the sting of capsaicin it wasn't necessary. It's uncertain but the company eventually fazed out Asthmatics who no longer had to inhale Fact Thirty-Nine! At this point, the word &quot;meth&quot; is starting to sound like a nonsense word. Let's talk According to official DEA documentation, some Biker's Coffee, Chalk, Christie, Crystal, Witches' Teeth, Devil's Dandruff, and Zip. And We intend all our puns. It's just our nice Fact Thirty-Eight! Meth goes by a lot of different names, There's crystal meth, of course, which we've potent form of the drug and is generally smoked powder form, known as speed, which can be mixed which is more potent and pure than powder yellow, and brown color. This is usually None of those sound all that appealing to us. Fact Thirty-Seven! There's another form of meth we That's right! Methamphetamine is Okay, that's not exactly true. It's a form of also known as Desoxyn. This drug occasionally prescribed for the can be very useful in the treatment of It's important to note that these drugs treat this specific medical condition by those who don't need them. As the and there's an ocean of difference between That was heavy. How about some Fact Thirty-Six! Hey, you know that song Semi-Charmed even if you don't realize it. Maybe you've heard a department store somewhere. The song was to be used in ads, movies, and TV shows, and song if you don't focus on the lyrics that You might notice the line, &quot;The sky was gold, it was rose I was taking sips of it through someplace back there Smiling in the pictures you until you break.&quot; Pretty heavy material for a Fact Thirty-Five! Speaking of artists writing about meth use, but he was also On Amphetamines. While he wasn't using meth per se, and would write to other famed beat poet lot.&quot; By the way, On the Road was written in on one giant scroll made out of taped-together Fact Thirty-Four! It's been a minute since we talked The creators of the show reached out during the process of production, and DEA and Bryan Cranston how to make crystal Fact Thirty-Three! Bad, but that doesn't mean it's a step-by-step For example, real meth of the purity discussed but colorless. The show used a a chemistry professor at the University of of meth cooking- particularly the P2P but some details were left out to avoid Fact Thirty-Two! Wait a second, what's the P2P process? We already talked about the process of using phosphorus and iodine, but as there and its synthetic forms, the P2P process has The P2P process is named after chemical to pseudoephedrine, and also involves Using this precursor chemical allows meth cooks while still generating product- though Fact Thirty-One! Bet you didn't know how big of a The German pharmaceutical company Temmler released was a miracle drug that could make people more Oh yeah, and it was a pill A military doctor named Otto Ranke magic little pill, and soon it was the In one month in 1940, the German meth tablets. What better way to march for miles without a rest than to be just The German soldier's new best friend fueled among other missions. It reached a point stimulants flowing that soldiers were writing asking them to send them not photos, not letters, going to win Germany the war! Well, we all know Fact Thirty! Adolf Hitler, what a loser. He was known war strategy meetings and loud speeches he get all that energy? Many historians including cocaine and crystal meth. one of history's greatest monsters! Fact Twenty-Nine! It should be noted that it wasn't just the during World War II. American soldiers used taking it to keep themselves awake and alert the British soldiers consumed Dexedrine on some kind of amphetamine, and they were Fact Twenty-Eight! Japanese kamikaze pilots also used taking large doses via They were also given pills mixed with green tea powder, and stamped with &quot;storming tablets.&quot; After the war ended, many drug gained momentum in the streets of Japan. Fact Twenty-Seven! Humanity hasn't just used meth as a weapon of Methamphetamine, and other amphetamines, pills over the years starting in the pills caused heart problems and other health still make an appearance in these types a weight loss pill was pulled from the market Love yourself and stay the hell Fact Twenty-Six! One of the worst imaginable Warning signs of an acute meth overdose temperature and blood pressure, dilated pupils, rapid eye movement, vomiting, Like with cocaine, it is difficult to determine acute overdose. The overdose threshold metabolism, pre-existing health conditions, and whether swallowing, snorting, Fact Twenty-Five! So, let's say someone is trying to What does methamphetamine withdrawal look like? Well, the severity of the withdrawal as well as how much meth they were using, withdrawal can include exhaustion, disturbed hallucinations, and muscle spasms. Because medically supervised withdrawal is Fact Twenty-Four! If meth is so bad for the Taking meth floods the brain with dopamine, emotions, bodily movement, and feelings of that compared the effects of sex vs. animals experienced a spike in dopamine Cocaine caused a spike to 350 units. Meth cranked things all the way up way to get the kind of dopamine spike that addictive and has consequences for the way Fact Twenty-Three! Long-term use of meth impacts the ability of meth users have lower levels of dopamine So, when meth users try to get clean, their they often plunge into depression... sending them feel normal. Eventually, the brain is able but it takes time- and the amount of But that's not the only terrifying Fact Twenty-Two! Prolonged meth use can also trigger One of the most common, and distressing sensation - hallucination of bugs This is often referred to as meth bugs, It can lead to aggressive picking and scratching infected or even lead to deadly sepsis. making the likelihood of infection or related these hallucinations are painful and terrifying for both the person experiencing them, Fact Twenty-One! Meth isn't just dangerous to the brain and If you've heard of meth labs, you've probably also in hand. Turns out when you combine dangerous and corner-cutting safety procedures, the Because meth cooking requires a multitude easy for something to go wrong when handled chemicals involved are extremely volatile, such as that there is usually an open flame around, Even a small spark or static electricity off with the secrecy surrounding meth labs, be placed in rural areas where fires disaster on your hands. Meth lab explosions are and a shockwave likely to destroy the From there, the fire can spread, and the toxic water. Nobody wants a bunch of cranked-up it wouldn't get the squirrels Fact Twenty! Not all meth labs are in trailers and sheds them are sitting on top of premium real estate. house spotted for sale on Zillow in San Jose. The its occupant was arrested for stockpiling weapons once you get past the disused meth lab, it's a Fact Nineteen! Scientific advancement requires a lot of of those new things is giving meth to pond snails. State University, whose 2010 experiment involved The study found that the drug stimulated insight into the nature of drug effects on the influenced the formation of vivid memories longer. This sounds pretty good, but don't First of all, you're not a snail - probably - memories makes meth users more likely to relapse triggers memories linked to their drug use. They Fact Eighteen! Oh, by the way, that's not the giving meth to an animal to see what happens. Taser International funded a study, also in 2010 the effects of Tasers on targets who were high off measure that? By pumping a bunch of sheep full Some of the smaller sheep - less than complications from the combination sheep experienced fatal complications. with meth probably won't kill somebody? But Fact Seventeen! North Korea isn't the first place that comes but over the years the country has become While it is illegal there, the stigma and officials are more than happy to look the According to Andrei Lankov, a North Korean &quot;Meth, until recently, has been as a kind of very powerful energy drug It was even a nationally sanctioned practice from the 1990s to the 2000s, the country made channels to raise money. As the 2000s wore on private and independent meth manufacturers million dollars worth of drugs, including Fact Sixteen! Earlier, we talked about the difficulties going through withdrawal yourself, it's and otherwise. But what if you're Experts agree that taking these steps can withdrawal from methamphetamines: make sure give them healthy foods, remind them that acknowledging that the process is hard and uplifting them and their efforts to quit withdrawals can make you feel powerless, Well, that was kind of heavy. Fact Fifteen! Meth smuggling is nothing new, but A Louisiana man was arrested in August 2022 in he had too many sharks onboard. Oh, and he had fishing season, but he had more than the legal And, as it turns out, the legal limit so he was over that as well. He wasn't it as far as anyone could tell. But still a And definitely don't do it with sharks. Fact Fourteen! Fish and meth just don't go together! Protection officers seized nearly 50 pounds of dead fish. The driver was attempting Mexico when a scan spotted irregularities they found a bunch of dead fish and 47 pounds of Fact Thirteen! Now, let's talk about some myths- some messy Hey, new sobriety test just dropped, say that Anyway, one popular myth is that using meth once The fact of the matter is that addiction develops take 2 to 5 years for meth use to develop into salt because it does vary from person to person, Fact Twelve! Another myth is that the average length of is five years. There is no data to suggest methamphetamine users in Missouri entering meth for nearly ten years on average. it's never too late for them to Fact Eleven! Speaking of which, another addiction is not treatable. Clinical studies In fact, treatment for meth abuse has similar such as cocaine. The two groups do not differ drug-free urine tests, or successful longer periods of treatment correlate to more treatment for at least four months have almost Fact Ten! Another myth about meth is that it causes has a negative impact on brain function when cells due to neurotoxic properties, Dark areas visible on brain scans are not holes, this damaged tissue is able to repair use. Some of the damage can be permanent, as someone is still breathing, it's Fact Nine! It can be dangerous to combine meth most dangerous drugs to combine with meth antidepressants can cause serotonin syndrome, an excessive release of serotonin that high blood pressure, seizures, and even death. and can worsen the mental health conditions Fact Eight! Another extremely dangerous type of Combining meth with opioids can lead where the breathing slows to a dangerous rate. The effects of opioids to go unnoticed, resulting in consuming both puts a tremendous strain to a stroke or a heart attack. When it comes to Fact Seven! We've referenced the purity of but what does impure meth have Common additives, all of which are hydrochloric acid, iodine, sulfuric like many other drugs today, meth Fact Six! It's good to be concerned about what it's probably best not to call the police That's what a Florida Man - who else? - did bath salts instead of meth. He decided, to call the cops and ask them for their Fact Five! One word that's often associated with meth is According to the National Library of Medicine, misuse wherein the drug user becomes paranoid At this point, they have usually gone and 15 days. During this stage, the person is becomes frustrated by the need to up their and potentially dangerous to others or themselves. eye movement- up to ten times faster than Fact Four! Florida Man and meth seem to go together story saw a Florida man hiding meth in...let's The driver hit a paraplegic bicyclist fled the scene. But karma was swift, and found him with meth between his Fact Three! Meth first exploded in popularity but it is still very much in style in According to the Pew Research Center, from increased by 59%, and self-reported Fact Two! If you or someone you know is struggling available. The National Institute on Drug Abuse including the Matrix Model- a 16-week family education, and counseling There are also Contingency which use positive reinforcement to assist local resources as well, there are Fact One! Let's take things out on a lighter note. Say the issue of meth abuse in your area. Say something that gets people thinking about it together when it comes to solving it. well-intentioned but disastrous: &quot;Meth, we're troubling uptick in meth usage, with twice as many average. However, we're not so sure this campaign trying to imply that the only way to have enough If you can't beat 'em, join 'em! Note: we here at the Infographics Show do not, Now check out "What Happens To Your Body