This is my attempt at a Bannerlord Sturgia only use the troops, equipment and companions play. This time: no smithing, no bow, AND no the part of the infantry specialist faction and I will not be riding a horse myself - making reducing mobility on the battlefield effecting I won't be able to flee situations I put myself perk that stops me from locking lords up This is the BannerSaga of Ubin We start in the frozen tundra, normally, id the desert bandits using the flee/engage and rack up a heap of combat xp and renown I join the tournament at Varcheg and won it! Strat Gaming did but got scared as I've never There were a lot of bandit parties roaming by any of them so caved in and started With 13 men we defeat 14 looters, losing clear a bandit hideout and fight 27 forest of the Western Empire. I'm feeling better about my war on Garios and the Western Empire. Soon 105 men Gersegos village where we complete our first raid. and we flee again, we almost made it to the caught by a party of 138 men riding ahead of 26 inexperienced soldiers can withstand this, so got spat out further behind him, and trying to get forcing me to sacrifice a further 9. Just me and march to the gate and he gets me again, this I escape the following day and sneak back to the recruit Yun Bloodaxe, Riman the Lucky and in tournaments is essential for the treasury as clan tiers so participate in a few more. I had playthrough but ultimately agree to use it as it The horse I spawned on however, is definitely While raiding Carphenion, I didn't spot the party our lack of experience let us down, killing becoming a prisoner Autumn 16 1084. After escaping I clear a bandit hideout and reached I need a larger party if I am to have I fill my troops to the maximum of 56 including Breakskull. Needing money, renown and combat a cool javelin headshot tournament win at Tyal I've found but she got knocked out in round 1, channel members, more about how YOU can join After more raids I feel brave and take on a larger were totally crushed dealing out only 13 kills, in Winter 15 1084. I escape but get caught escaping on winter 20th, just in time A year has gone by since the start of the the Northern Empire but everyone else has remains as raiding villages and fighting small experience for me and the troops (when done well) 10 1085, I recruit Ekadrya Willowbark and troops. I see a party of 53 and fight them, While raiding Phasos, two smaller parties attack but they signed a sponsorship deal with next tournament and win a $15k denar helmet. win a tournament in the battle feed and MrPumpkin At Tyal, I spend $15k denars setting up a it takes him mere seconds before he is taken 85v168 and reach clan tier 3 on summer 3rd 1086. BannerSaga, I help Valkava from Michelleromy's so that was a waste of time. I meet Heyo, clan his eligible bachelorettes are incompatible that sounds worse than it is, but this I found our next companion, Olguna the Kavyl Breakskull out to lead their own parties to later when I can call upon them to follow me in long find a lost king. I jump at the chance outnumbers but I see half his party are recruits. last to fall and we lost only 11 of our own. in the battle feed I see she takes Clouded_Miindz him, he has a niece, Apolanea - THE granddaughter BannerSaga of their own in 1077 after destroying is a perfect match and I promised Johnathon crush her enemies and conquer the world just went with that. We got married on Autumn Distracted by women I forgot to pay wages, morale. Ransoming prisoners is a good way to make fight to make our money. We are victorious in a they are fighting for the Western Empire so I in a 144v114. It was a pathetic first impression, whole party. Thanks for the membership though. but it has come with complaints, particularly complaints as nonsense but after raiding Aegosca to leave my company. Riman the Lucky was then This all happened within 6 days of eachother. that Karya Uner actually died in battle! Ending news though, we became tournament master after on Spring 2nd 1087 Apolanea gives birth to a name her Karya Uner Jr, to continue their legacy. are clan tier 3 and are almost ready to take our a rebel town nearby the Sturgian lands. Onira a better opportunity. We recruit Vladym the gather round us and attack us. It turned into get knocked unconscious, but we fought on, killing Having faced such a large opposition of more than my ability to coordinate them. I find more stray ground and it started off well, but our infantry fight, including 20 Druzhinnik Champions - against whittled them down until there were 4 champions vs 4 of one of the best cavalry counters, the champion and 1 Menavlion. Our champion got several took was one swing at the face to end this duel Escaping a few days later, I realise that we are now eligible to create our own kingdom but we need to own land before I can call myself The Aserai take Daunistica from the southern the Northern Empire who have taken Seonon from the leader experience ready for when the time for war I am struggling with funds and have $0 denars. a revenue farming quest from my new relative filling all 7 current companion slots for the (I think). I find a force more than double my even though this confidence cost us dearly last archers, 168 of them which matters very little to to the 147 infantry and 80 cavalry. I'm not but we slaughtered those imperials with only $18k denars in hard cash, that's not including any Our luck continued as Seonon rebelled, its not only opportunity we have, we march to strike. empire had set up their siege camp and took it. this time I find one with over 500 hearths, giving 1088, Apolanea gives birth to our second child ImMutton had died of natural causes 2 years ago, MrPumpkin, Totoroto187 and Diddy. In honour of Henry Kavyl Breaksull has been in prison for summer. We win a tournament and so does Johnathon the only 2 handed weapon of the shield for the axe and a third set of javelins. to fight against a rebel town, but we cannot delay war on the Sturgians and start ransacking their castle. We only used ladders, but we overwhelmed Thus giving birth to a new kingdom in Calradia, We chose this war so that recruitment and and to start attempting to persuade their at war and taking their homes encourages the i can see what I'm up against. Our troop strength Khuzait, Aserai, Northern Empire, Southern Empire a fight with the most powerful faction. besieged our new home with us and our 328 inside. for some higher intelligence reason that i cannot has already decided to start the attack, so the but now the catapult needs time to be reinstalled, against us before, it is now far worse. the Lucky who were running parties, but they did fight. It was not a good battle, I got knocked only notice now that we were fighting against our home and became a prisoner, Autumn 12 1088. Riman the Lucky was lost in combat and died in got caught up by another party and had to submit out into the lap of Johnathon Abrahms, my wife's him. Back in chains for a third time. I liked on my own though, that level of force can only Sturgia and Vlandia are at war and I manage Sturgians are too scared to engage him. on the 5th day of winter I make peace with the feed I see Totoroto187 died in combat, fighting I will remember you fondly sir. gather my companions back after being spread out building our forces back. Baby Karya Uner turns 2 Empire for battle loot opportunities. We find is coming straight for us. He slightly men would benefit greatly from the experience he has a lot of experienced troops including 54 against my elite cavalry. We had the high ground came down to our lack of experienced troops I got knocked and we lost the battle, becoming Now we have a $10k denar debt and our the Khuzait are now leading the way followed by lost land. Everyone else has changed places too. it after fights and clearing hideouts. it is Battanian land, but I think this is close at war with an entire faction, just the rebel clan After building an amateur army of 313 I am an easy win, so much so that only 10 of ours We are victorious but we have sunk back into debt, when we receive news that our new home is under not want to lose my home again. It's a 448v753. but ultimately we lost. We saved the prisoner once again on winter 10th 1089. war on us. Later that same day, the Norther Empire up a force and clear my ongoing debt but by the from us by Battania. Another home lost. With my my $10k denar debt with the loot. The Western day for peace. I accept as there are 3 wars and at war together for 474 days, 5 and a half years. only 30 days of war, I accept. We celebrate mini our 3rd child into the lineage - Heyo! In the and saw that our only enemy the Northern Empire another chance to take it back so set up a siege food supply though, Seonon still has catapults and I don't have any siege equipment yet. day's supply when Clouded_Miindz and several combined force of 480 to try stop my attack. the battle loot our food reserves have risen and saved our siege. We took out their catapults charge. 9 of ours fell and we take our home back. part in the Witcher, Henry Kavyl Breakskull a huge army of 1,356 comes in view with intent refuse to fight for us and we still have one wall siege tower myself with one of the 2 catapults I on the imperials underneath and everything is my defenders try a tactic of marching outside the off as we lose control of the wall and lose the there were just too many. We lose Seonon and are Kavyl Breakskull died for nothing. are now in second to last place and now Aserai, Northern Empire, Southern Empire, and the What's frustrating is within 9 days of losing We are still struggling with making enough money in and have been focussing on tournaments and of winter 1090 the western empire declares war on we stop the Emperor Garios himself with an took him prisoner, we plundered $3 thousand denars to make peace with the Northern Empire for no I reach clan tier 5 during a tournament in spring 738 men and beat Michelleromy in a tournament. pay us $600 per day for peace so accept. Sturgia so decide this is my moment, on the 19th day I quickly choose Sibir as my target, it's a catapults off their walls, maybe its because hit that might cause troops to desert but it took the city as well as Michelleromy. She is the but she is not interested in joining our cause. 612v595, this time taking out the catapults and siege and we now have a second property AND This time, Michelleromy is willing to talk I convince her and expect to pay a large bribe never happens and I consider myself I see she actually came with 4 castles AND Tyal, eastern Sturgian conquest in one fell free swoop. spreading wide across the map, Aserai making but it is Vlandia, having taken Ortysia, who have fill our army with 779 troops and Sturgia wants more clan leaders. We continue the fight. I name it Totoroto187, eternalising the heroic with Johnathon Abrahms. I take Balgard and engineering levels which earnt me the fire Onager We then take Takor castle and convinced Lek of and he wants more. Torvir of the Ubroving asks for The Aserai declares war on us, but I leave them as currently. We take Ov castle then recruit our is under attack at the hands of the Aserai. They I choose to deliberately lose Tyal so I can siege shot and win an easy battle, take lots of lords so I can continue with my Sturgian conquest. they sally our and meet me in the field. I did for a 704v1,433 and fear the worst. Their fight turned into defeat, putting us in chains 9 days later we escape and begin the process I have some garrisoned troops to quickly get Takor castle in a 741v573, 177 of ours died simply Karya Uners 5th birthday and pay Chastamir Abrahms will not betray his liege though. while in prison. Odokh has also rebelled from the kingdom took Tyal back from them for us. THEN its only $170 a day but that's so much We fight and defeat Luke then the Khuzait declares declares war. Progress with the Sturgian recruit their lords before the faction is Western Empire wastes no time and starts the siege including 46 Infantry and 325 ranged I am a shield 406 and come out with 5 deaths. Silly sir Vipon. work at our eastern front, they have already currently preparing to attack Dinar castle. clash with the horse lords and take Uriksala back. at Kaysar castle, we leave him to it and go ahead It is now Spring 1093, and Battania declares war Vlandia both declare war on us. We are at war with Khuzaits as they are the cheapest currently, we march PAST Omor and make it to Varcheg I arrive to help the 6 remaining defenders in no kills and got knocked out). our first $1 million denars, mini Mutton Clouded_miindz was sold for $5 thousand denars with the Western Empire then take Mazhadan castle Mazhadan castle is under attack from the Northern them so declare a truce, saving the castle. my wife's cousin, of the Kuloving, this he died the previous year. He was friends with a lucrative peace deal with Battania as they offer peace the very next day. I accept as Vlandia and miraculously have fallen into a world peace. convince Luke to join us but he must have been fight against Platerade and get taken prisoner. I should have made you both Sturgian, I would the Vagiroving finally for $322 thousand in We are neaby so strike first Epicrotea in a 743 own Davan Coalbiter. We then took Mecalovea Its Clouded_Miindz running an army of 554. We help in this war, we fought in a 986 vs 554 and Clouded_Miindz got 0 kills and got wounded AGAIN, We're moving up, we currently have 5,914 troop top spot by the Aserai. Followed by the Khuzait, Southern Empire Battania and Sturgia. we lose Mecalovia castle but take it back. but gets defeated. We convinced Luke to We were heading to Ostican to pick up another first. My kingdom wants peace with the Northern they will pay us $4,420 per day and we will be boarders with The Southern Empire and Aserai to now stop the Vlandians getting too and they are growing their strength again. Michelleromy had created an army and snaps into way too but unfortunately don't make it in time, We instantly set up our siege camp and we took it at the cost of 82 troops but soon inside. A few days later another large force number significantly higher than ours. They start but cannot stop the second. The battering ram but I think it'll be okay. I fight the hardest invaders. We lost only 60 but killed 953 before and took Nevyansk castle too where we sang happy It is now Spring 1095, we take Aster castle, took Llanoc Hen castle when the Northern I have gained sufficient ground in the with King Derthert paying us $2,180 per day. kingdom troop strength. Aserai are in the Isyarovin to join our cause leaving only one clan Clouded_Miindz is yet again attacking one time and again he gets no kills and get should practice at the arena or something for take Diathma, Argoron and Atrion castle. child and name them after Johnathon Abrahms. One warhorses, 82 Varayag are ready for promotion, Later that year, in winter 1095, Vlandia declares Northern Empire and ignore them for now. We from the Khuzait only conquest, she has married I fight her in a 736 vs 464 and defeat her. Michelleromy is besieging Rhesos castle and we to take it but I got to them first. We take back and on the 4th day of spring 1096, take Gaos This achievement came at the same time as clan another party, increasing our clan army size as I want to fight Sturgia and Battania first, was turned, they took 3 properties off us refuses to abandon his king. We have over 10,000 want war with the Aserai who are evenly matched, nemesis and declare war with the Sturgians. Our Revyl with fire and fury. In the siege against Mini Mutton has her 8th birthday party there and We then move on to Raganvads last stronghold, 100 men died for it, but now the kingdom Later that very same day the Aserai as an opportunity to push the Aserai out then turning to either the Khuzait or the Southern With a full army of 1,150 we march to fight the we lose Gaos castle. Urik had an army and was enemies stopped him. Our first battle with them the first time I fight a new faction. losing almost 2 thousand troops in the first week. now Battania declares war on us on the other but he's currently fleeing from That British Mo. Gaos castle, that's where our companion Tora where only 3 men died but now the Western Empire and the Western Empire are sieging Varagos last remaining clan of the Sturgians has now fled his clan as there were 17 members able to lead to become little lords and ladies of their own. the Aserai, somehow Vlandia are now sitting in do not intend to destroy the kingdom of the meaningless. I also make peace with the Western throttle and focus our efforts on Battania. turned 5, Nevyansk castle was taken and our allies and captured, but Michelleromy picked up the to 1,151 and start the siege of Dunglanys where We took it, as well as Kranirog castle by the a village and give him the honour of facing said I'd go easy on him. One of ours died but take him prisoner. We then spot ThatBritishMo the Vlandians who they are also at war with. asked me to make peace with Battania, they left but peace seems like a good idea. I deny the I see him leading an army while in the siege camp Battania make a last effort and ask for peace, I decline. 7 lords from my kingdom once again an odd tactic when you are about to defeat your Michelleromy is working hard this playthrough as we take Seonon, defeating the Battanians just us and 5 others. While in our new playthrough Taorse was staying there, she's in the Vlandian MrPumpkin and see he has married Next on our list is the Khuzait but not before They have 11 properties and we have 15 thousand for a quick war. The exiled clans of old includes ThatBritishMo and Platerade. Apolanea a year ago Clouded_Miindz of the Empire had died Our first assault this war was Amprela, where fight MaxxGrumpy to save Kaysar castle him prisoner. We take Tepes castle, Syratos We are leading the way with over 15 thousand their positions, but Western Empire is now 1098 Vlandia declares war on us, making themselves Khuzait. We take Chaikand and Hakkun castle while We took Ortongard off them and they tried losing only 8 and hit leadership 275, allowing army capacity even more. We've not seen them yet dot dash dot, or whelmed face - doesn't look they are our opponent as the are of Khuzait We take Usek castle and see Monchug Khan. We as has a go at seizing Ortongard with 472 men. We of our own soldiers in the process. Clouded_miindz gets taken prisoner by the very same We then take Khimli castle. Vlandia are attacking but I must push on with the Khuait, they have only and on the 10th day of summer 1098 another We have dropped to 943 troops so on the way to Sturgian tundra. Thankfully there was not we had lost Pendraic castle and Flintolg castle. And Heyo has his 8th birthday. castle, but the invasion force consisting of unable to outrun them and are forced to fight in wave goes badly, there's a lot of red in the back where the second wave is coming from. I tried a new tactic where everyone was inside Vlandians had to send us - but it was futile. battle. 1,052 killed, but all of ours had died, We were prisoner for 10 days. While in chains destruction of the Khuzait including MaxxGrumpy Seonon luckily, so was able to recover my party leaders want peace with Vlandia but this is just 6 of our properties and we have only taken 2. companion is struck down. He was a party leader by the time I figured it out 100 troops my companion's parties as I can train troops getting a high tier army, when a party leader I never took these highly skilled warriors and Luke is in trouble and gets caught, we save from spring 1099 to 1100 we took, lost It's been 188 days of war and we have beaten place. The Aserai are building their forces up cannot distract myself with their growing threat. Ocs hall, where the vote for its ownership obviously. Pravend had a large force stationed at Verecsand castle. I see a smaller party of 854 intercept. A second smaller army of 651 follows. as I now stand faced with a 1,118 The fight quickly begins but it's not clear if is rapidly giving out casualties to both sides. a wave of our lower tier troops charged in, as all I quickly ordered a tight shield wall square where picked off on the journey to the centre of the Vlandian onslaught, the power bar suggests favour. Then I notice that the reminder of our up and within a matter of minutes had cut down My kingdom want peace again, but there is inflicted casualties, 34 prisoners and the We take Astor castle without losing any men and army roaming the plains. Leading one of the find out that her husband MrPumpkin died this him but couldn't so took her prisoner instead. 259 days of war with Vlandia and a lot of We take Jaculan and Charas while our allies Horngard castle but Vlandia took Ab Comer from I realise my allies must have already retaken at an end. 280 days of war. 3 years of fighting To focus my kingdoms efforts on the war to other kingdoms to $46,320 per day. money is soldiers ready to be upgraded but I cannot We recruited until our army was full with 1,442 map. Aserai are going to be a tough opponent and the 2 other factions first. We are firmly in with 18,961, Western Empire 3rd with 9,738 and the last living channel members remaining are Luke and of Aserai and BigBear of the Southern Empire. Empire, I have been paying them $10 thousand a day $1.9 million denars from us. I take Pen Cannoc to days into the war, we had taken Rhemtoil castle, The Aserai are keen for war, but I have peace costing $59,230 per day. Now to focus Lageta and Hertogea castle and save We take Rhotae, Siga saves Hertogea castle and again, costing us $63,640 now. Jalmarys, Zeonica, taken the enemies capitols away from them Empire are left with 3 castles and the Western the millisecond we reach the gate is complete and we lose the town, we took it Thorios castle, Onica castle, Oristocorys castle the Aserai again declare war meaning we declare take their final stronghold of Varagos Thus defeating the realm of the Western Empire. me $150,850 per day, my kingdom request war with vs 3,095 and they have but one property left, defeating the Southern Empire. Leaving only This will be a lengthy campaign which is why I while I begin my crusade in a 23,424 vs 23,639. Amytatys and then take it from them and then try and take on this invasion force and stop it meet in the field. 1,549 vs 1,156. We have brought have brought incompetence. I turned friendly I've always been concerned it would be unclear Dothraki type war so I'm hoping it will be okay. Diddy in one of our prison cells, hopefully attacking Myzea. 1,457 vs 989 - 51 men died this a cell next to Diddy though and retook Syronea. Unqid prisoner. Grand Prince Raganvad of his lands he became a vassal for the Aserai. With $15 million denars we take Daunistica, take Erzenur castle. Surprised to see her I fight and take prisoner my ex-wife Debanna which is probably why my wife is mad at me. I take Odokh but decide leave Odrysa castle allies to take if they want to On the 3rd day of Spring, 1105, Karya comes of age, I give her the same loadout as of broad blade javelines. I need to allies had taken Shibal Zumr castle We take Husn Fulq which is where Karya Uner 29 throwing levels, 39 athletics levels and 52 channel members I've faced put together! played my new favourite tactic of making the busts through the gate at the last moment them from the sides, behind the walls. and 2 castles left in the mainland to the Aserai have 8,306. 15 properties to go. trigger happy and took out a 35 friendly troops and plus 135 engineering levels. Vara's army Simira castle. Tamnah castle and Iyakis fell I have over $20 million denars now and decided them for experience, I spent $700 thousand upgraded 150 of them, I wish I had done this Torvir abandons his siege with 404 wounded an army trying to stop the siege. Vara's siege battle and were taken prisoner, including Luke. turns 14 and Torvir finally get his Quyaz! prisoner again. We then take Sanala, Barihal, Uqba Medini castle and there are only 3 to defeat the final 5,715 with our 43,348. in an army, not seen her do anything 2 to go - and we reach $30 million denars, Luke go - and Torvir is laying siege to it. We go to down on their luck in some sort of depressing away from Simira, battle must have gone bad. Before we reach the walls on the 9th day of to the caslte, Torvir is back again, we join his his army too and we march with 3,119 men against and a lord. I don't know who that is, I hope he And there you have it, 18th of summer 1106 and and we still need 359 war horses for upgrades. Luke, Diddy and Valfrozz. The game we won 95 tournaments and our companion Ubin the Varl brought peace, prosperity and taxes would be not having the riding perk to reduce the scouting perk to 0 I though that would be more combo as you only need to fight each lord once, until you destroy their kingdom but its honestly I thought commanding battles would be hard - my troops the angles I want them to get, I've the thick of battle and not able to fall I hope you liked this video, this is the 5th you again to the Channel members especially and enjoy some stats and trivia before