Neil deGrasse Tyson is amazing because he's him speak. And if you think back to your high found yourself, that is a true testament to Today we're going to analyze his most powerful mundane topics extremely fascinating, and to make even really interesting stories captivating, Just a reminder, if you're a long time viewer a similar video. We're actually updating the to make those old videos more punchy. So, down Neil deGrasse Tyson's voice. What is the most astounding fact you can share The most astounding fact The first thing to notice that Neil deGrasse voice, and there's part of this that is impossible a lower and more resonate tone, depending speak. Deeper more resonate tones come from when you produce sound, and that means that back rather than in your chest when you breathe So let me show you what the two sound like. This is what it sound like when I breathe deep and speak from my diaphragm. This is what it sounds like when I breathe shallow and contract more from my throat. So the slower your voice is going to sound. And, you'll intends to get pinched because I speak so people stay. That makes my breath more shallow Anyways, I'm going to link to a good exercise voice, but, for now, let's continue with how The most astounding fact is the knowledge that the atoms that comprise life on earth, the atoms that make up the human body are traceable to the crucibles. So you're going to notice two big things here. you hanging because he places it before completing in a way, saying go on, go on. It is fantastic it a whole lot on YouTube because clicking walking away from someone in real life, and But, in your normal speech, play around with gets people listening more attentively. The second thing here is his range. So let's are traceable to the crucibles To the crucibles has such a breathy quality. from Neil. He has incredible vocal range. but I mean that in terms of style. He shouts, and he whispers. In fact, you'll notice that when someone has point, and then, whispers, it drags you in how he actually plays with these pauses, and, of a sentence. He actually blows right by he says &quot;these stars.&quot; they cooked light elements into heavy elements and pressures. These stars are high mass ones You see that? He actually shifts the speed his periods, and he doesn't always connect he adds a giant pause in the middle of a sentence. So just watch now how he plays with the cadence, when unstable in their later years. They collapsed guts across the galaxy; guts made of carbon, ingredients of life itself. These ingredients People talk about speaking in monotone and It's the same tone it puts people to sleep. want to talk in mono anything. You don't want same pace. You don't want to be mono rhythm, you definitely don't want to be mono style. punctuated syllables. That variety is what entire clip, but you get the idea of how a create Neil deGrasse Tyson's unique style his style. You should simply pay attention different effects. Think of it as kind of colors on a palette. by how you use those different colors. You to the whole palette. So alter the speed. volume. Alter the breathiness and the style. is going to give you 10 times more expressiveness attention of rooms full of people, no matter Anyways, I hope that you guys have enjoyed a link to an exercise that I love from Elliott your diaphragm, as well as a link to the original very beautiful. Both of those are going to and want to learn more about speaking with set up that's going to help you to do that. any big event, whether that's a presentation to someone that you want to impress at a job that exercise that increases confidence in here or the link in the description. It's your email and get immediate access to that For the rest of you, let me know if you want comments. I know that some of you may have to do these if they're genuinely helpful, If you're new to this channel and haven't going to get notifications whenever we release I just get really excited at the speed that to me. So I hope that you all have enjoyed