I love to use super basic stuff, to create really complex things. The room or my environment in general As you can see, I don't have a lot of equipment. It's more like my comfort zone, I really love nature, I love plants, I love animals, and I can forget time in this setting. And, yeah, time really flies by like that. And I mean, I also produce in the plane but I definitely feel more creative when I just can sit in my very comfy chair and have my cat on my lap or on the desk or whatever. And yeah, that's just... All the music is in my head and I have to translate it through my and then it's done. I decided to produce in the box because I'm very much into computers. I've been always, And, that's why I kind of feel connected. I also have a lot of friends I've been always in this nerdy So I feel very connected to it in a way. It's weird, I know many people like to touch knobs and like use cables and everything, but I'm way faster when it's just one just my two hands, like, on the same position So that's what I feel comfortable with. My main DAW is Ableton. I also like Bitwig actually. Sometimes I use it, the UI is just really simple And that's why I feel. Yeah, it's very effective. It's very nice. I mostly work in the arrangement view because I feel like in the arrangement I just finish tracks faster because I'm forced to directly Because the thing is, when you just continue in session view you will just edit the loop, and there are many stages in between. And in the end, it was actually But in the end it's only a loop with one moment of everything what happened. And I like to just preserve everything and only put it in place. I limit myself while producing, with just using minimalistic tools, I would say. I really love Ableton Stock plugins, for example, and I have very minimalistic choice And that's my limitation, I guess. But the thing is, I also already try to produce So I really like to have the idea or what I want to do Okay, I'm going to use operator, as I'm always almost doing, and then I'm just, going with the flow in a way. And I really don't like and then this page and then press record there, and then go to the other side of the room and like press the keys. And that's too much like rotation for me. I just want to do everything in front of me and have two like control units, mouse and keyboard. But with all the possibilities I can have. My main sound plugins are basically Operator, as I really love the simple technique of the Ableton Stock plugins. And sometimes I use also the free Vital Synth, which is amazing too. Yeah. I also use a little bit of Serum, So it's really basically. It comes down to Operator, Vital and working with samples and that's basically it. For EQing. I mainly use the EQuick actually and not the Fabfilters, which is normally the standard, right. And also the Ableton EQs, because they are not so bad in the end. I think they sound pretty clean and decent. And for compression I use the Limiter 6 from Tokyo Dawn Records, who are also, there... It's one person actually, and based in Munich, which is amazing and one crazy nerd, and it's just the best compressor and limiter I ever used. I use for saturations, for example, or Kelvin, which is yeah, really nice ones. Really good quality and different colors possible, so yeah. I always mix during producing because otherwise I cannot understand what my track is like. I think many good producers, for example, also Robert Babicz and everybody Stimming and these people really told me in a way, -I mean, from their videos, but they show in a very, very nice way that when you get these technical things right, right from the beginning and you already think about that, that you will already understand which you're trying to get into the track, you can understand them right away, you know, and not think: Oh, I have to add this and then that element to make it sound right, because maybe just the mix was not right and something was missing maybe. But it was actually not missing. So yeah, I think it's very important during the process, at least for me. My label and me, like Dycide especially, he is a software developer and we are together, with others developing an audio analyzer which includes a spectrum analyzer, a goniometer... In the future, also correlation meter, peak meter and oscilloscope. And with these tools in one software, you are able to really, really analyze your audio very precisely to create a very good mix, very clean mix. And like that I can always see: okay, there are unwanted frequencies and let's say my Hi-Hats, there are some bass, I don't need that. So I just cut it. And yeah, I definitely go very technical For me, the technical details are what enables me to think clearly, to be creative in the end. Because the thing is, when you have a polluted mix, let's say with frequencies in elements you will probably not be able to hear the track as it actually could be. You know, because there's always, room And, the better the mix, the clearer the listener can also you know? And that's why I think it's very important. But for me, it's like on the side, which I naturally do next to my creativity. I would not say it's like the main but it's the basis. My speakers are from a very nice German company It's Mirra Vierzehn, ah Fourteen, sorry. And they are definitely... They can go very loud, but I don't produce that loud, actually, because... I mean, working as an artist it's very loud always. So it's better to protect and be a bit more slow about it. And I'm very lucky with my neighbors, I think... I'm not sure if they even hear what I do. When I'm like, doing my library no problem at all. I'm very happy about it, yeah. I barely use samples from libraries, mainly drums I would say. Everything else comes from field recordings or my instruments, and also I use a lot of my voice as well So every voice you ever hear in I really love, to let the digital world intersect with the acoustic one. This is my kind of hardware, totally haptic for me And then I really love coming of thinking into the digital world and fuze it.