(pensive music) Oh, Oman. The gem of the Arabian Peninsula. Where modernity meets traditional culture, where thousands of meter and the desert, where hospitality meets adventure, where the heart meets the soul. (heart beating sound) (inspirational music) This spring, I went on I went on a road trip through I went to the rawest deserts, the highest mountains, and the most spectacular In this foreign country in the Middle East, I was not but as a friend. A month and 2,500 kilometers (waves crashing) We started our journey from the city Salalah. But before heading north to we decided to first experience one of the least inhabited places of Oman, the Rub'al Khali Desert, the so-called Empty Quarters. An adventure far off from civilization, just the sandy, remote (dramatic music) Now we are where the big dunes are. It's absolutely amazing. There is nobody besides of us. Absolutely stunning ride. (camels grunting) Oman is about the same size of Italy but Italy has a population Oman only has five the same amount of people that live in Australia's The Rub'al Khali Desert is the least-inhabited place in Oman. Its name means, translated, It is the largest sand It stretches from Oman to Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates, and Yemen, and covers an area of about more than all of Netherlands, Some of the sand dunes are The raw beauty of the desert During the days, under the At night, under the stars and the moon, all by ourselves. Make sure to bring your camping gear because here is the good news, in Oman, you're allowed to put up your tent basically everywhere. Experience those wild places and a real state of solitude. (pensive music) There is not only the vast but many tourists choose to visit the more accessible Sharqiya Sands Desert instead, that was formally known as Wahiba Sands and is situated about two The desert has always and today there are still who as well opened some camps to make their home, the desert, accessible for others. - How are you? - I'm good. - Okay, let's go. In the township of Al Wasil, I luckily met Humied who offered me a ride in his Toyota Land Cruiser so I would not get stuck in - So who's the best driver? You or your brother? - You. - Me? No. Humied comes from a Bedouin family but he is not a nomad anymore. He studied engineering but now works in the family business and lives in the desert. He explains to me how important family is in the Omani culture and why the desert is not a but his beautiful home. And even though he is used to these views on a everyday basis, I could still feel how amazed he is of the haunting beauty of Sharqiya Sands. (inspirational music) (bike roaring) From Salalah, we continued our ride north over the mountains in the state Dhofar, always along the coast. And then what to us felt because we didn't expect were riding along the that we have ever seen in our lives. (inspirational music) From the town Mirbat in the south to the city Duqm, it is about 600 kilometers And there are no real hotels that you can find on Western But you can always rely on Locals will do everything to try to find an accommodation for you. So you surprisingly might or private houses. Omanis are heartwarmingly and treat everyone as a friend. Not only were we invited to but as well got dates, Omani coffee, tea, or cold drinks as a present - It's so nice, the locals... ... a local just bought us drinks. And wherever we went, we didn't feel like intruders but we were welcomed During our three-day journey we didn't meet one single tourist and had all the little beautiful gems along the coast to ourselves. (inspirational music) (wind blowing) In the north of Oman, only a two-hour drive there are majestic mountains rising to an altitude of 3,000 meters. And you can find some off-road riding that is a real challenge. (playful dramatic music) - (beep) This is (beep) steep and my wheels are just slipping. I'm breaking but it's so steep. You hear that? It's just going down. I mean, the bike just slips, even though my brake is full on. Ah, this is (beep) scary. (dramatic music) But there are not only mountains, there are as well wadis where there can be high and that look like green (tranquil music) Like everywhere in Oman, there are welcoming locals living a simple and laid-back life. There are goats. Actually, there are a lot of goats. And there are old villages and old forts. Some of these villages and old ruins are thousands of years old. It is impressive to experience (lively music) People here value their old Sometimes it makes you or a journey to a place where the seemingly impossible of a modern life and hundreds exist peacefully next to each It sometimes felt to me on Earth where peaceful The history is the future and the locals were to share it with us. (lively music) There is no visit to Oman without getting in touch that is the base and anchor The importance of Islam will be obvious to you as a traveler. At prayer times, all the shops close, the streets all of a sudden empty. Omani people are amicable and accepting. They are too respectful and very likely will never But it is important to This, of course, applies to any country but especially to those with such strong traditions like Oman. No matter if man or woman, try to wear long-armed shirts and reserve your shorts or You can buy alcoholic but alcohol in general is forbidden so you won't find any alcoholic beverages if you go to the less touristic (lively music) The traditional market and has a very long history. (lively music) (knife chopping) Since the third millennium B.C., Oman has been a crossroad for traders and merchants. The Omanis were known for building and exporting very good ships and they traded with precious goods, such as frankincense. If you want to get to know you can visit the Camel that is held each Thursday. (camel grunting) Camels have always been In the past, camels have and survival in the desert and today the animals (goats bleating) Nizwa has one of the which means market in Oman. A must-visit is the Animal Market that is held each Friday. It is full of energy. But if you look closely, you will understand its After our ride through the whole country, we headed to Muscat, the capital of Oman. By coincidence, we met Yusuf who works in Muscat as a He not only showed us the of Muscat but also took us a small fishing village. - So Yusuf just took us to his village. Which has the name...? - It is my village, Haramil Village. - Haramil Village. And it's a kind of fishing, - Yes. - And it's absolutely - Yeah. - You have a life vest? - No need. If God gives you still life, you continue, even if you're in middle of the ocean. There is a time for everyone. - Yeah. Against all of our expectations, Muscat turned out to have some of the most stunning But I realized that there in Oman that we visited that didn't exceed all of (inspirational music) I spent nearly a month riding with my motorcycle through Oman, discovering its big and little secrets, its most remote and I realized that there is and that I could have easily But there is only one conclusion. Oman is a beautiful It is the perfect country to travel to. Not only because the nature is diverse, because Oman is one of the or because its culture is simple, traditional and extraordinary But mostly because of its people, beautiful from inside out, and some of the most When I left Oman after I was not saying goodbye. I was saying see you soon. Inshallah. Did you guys like this introduction and long summary to my new Oman series? If yes, leave a comment and Next week, we will start to dig deeper into the secrets of Oman and I will take you to Rub'al Khali, the biggest sand desert on Earth and one of the most remote and raw places. Experience one of the most find out why I nearly lost my luggage, meet friendly camels and Tune in next Thursday for the big kickoff to the new series: Oman Overland. (bike roaring)