Narrator: This is just a Grimaldi's makes every year. For the past 30 years, the Brooklyn-based pizzeria has stuck to classic recipes and kept a veteran team of pizzaiolos. Today, you'll find kitchen and his team of pizzaiolos slicing 200 pounds of fresh mozzarella, and working a 1,000-degree oven. Tony: It's a series of marathons for us because we have to make for the next shift, the to keep up with the demand at the door. Narrator: We visited in Brooklyn, New York, to see how it makes these At 9 in the morning, Tony making a 33-year-old dough recipe. The mixer is loaded with olive oil, New York City tap water, activated yeast, and 50 pounds of high-gluten flour. Tony: So, we have it It's on a low-spin cycle. OK? And so what we do is we sprinkle Five minutes later, we have our famous dough recipe. Narrator: Once mixed, the weighed, and shaped into so it doesn't rise. For this, Frank relies on the most experienced Tony: They're cutting each and every thing to the same size every day. It's almost like muscle where the scale's not even needed. You know, they know what they're doing, and it's almost like a healthy competition down here to race. Like, &quot;Let's go, come on, keep up with me. I'm rolling. You gotta Narrator: Another skill is rolling the perfect dough ball. So, we're rolling the dough, and we're making sure that as well as making sure So, for example, if you're rolling it and you're just going to meatball it and you're just going to it's going to rise and it's And then the pizza, when you pick it up, that's when it flops down. So, Grimaldi's is known for That is the texture. It's the base. It's the most important It's the foundation to the house. No foundation, no pizza. Narrator: This batch of dough is enough to make 65 to 75 pizzas, which is just a fraction of what will be needed for the day. Once all of the trays are filled, they're taken across the Tony: So, this is only the dough that was made last night, OK? So this is getting ready for our first few hours in Grimaldi's, and then we'll start fresh. Probably go through the first and then as well as another eight or nine for the night shift. Narrator: In 2011, Grimaldi's moved into its current location. The double-story palazzo building at No. 1 Front Street was originally built to be Brooklyn's first safety-deposit company. Now, Grimaldi's fridges as the old vaults. So, I think that's really cool that we made them into our own vaults. So basically it protects our gold, and this is our gold right here. Narrator: Next, it's Large cans of San Marzano tomatoes are poured into buckets, topped with sugar, and blended. Tony: For us, we use a one-day shelf life, so we're just trying to keep it marinating for a few hours, if not a full day, and it's going right onto our pizza. So we like to keep it It's nice, thick, and imported tomatoes. Narrator: Grimaldi's goes through about 700 quarts of tomatoes every week, or roughly 662.4 liters. Upstairs, 200 mozzarella balls a process that's gone Tony: The Grimaldi's It's made only for Grimaldi's, so nowhere else in the world that we're doing on our mozzarella. It is a low-moisture, low-sodium, UV-dried fresh mozzarella, the high, intense heat of our oven and be cooked and melt to perfection in a short amount of time. Narrator: By the end of the around 2,000 pounds of mozzarella. An hour before opening, so they can relight the oven. Tony: OK, so right now, he's throwing 40-pound into the bottom of our So we keep about anywhere down there at a time. And what we're doing is, we try and dry out our coal to make sure that it's burning it's not hopping from the as it starts to heat up. It makes our stoking process and our oven heat up a little bit quicker too. Narrator: The pizzeria keeps embers in the brick oven Tony: So, right now, we have It's holding our coal up, but he's right now flipping it and getting rid of all the old coal. The reason why we don't because we want to make sure that it stays warm overnight, too many hours to heat up our floor. Narrator: When the charcoal ignites, the team begins shoveling into the side of the oven. Compared to wood, anthracite coal burns longer, hotter, and with less smoke. Tony: You can't get a up to 1,000 degrees the way we can. So we're able to get a different not only flavor profile from the coal, but we're also getting a and intensity that that Narrator: When the doors it's all hands on deck to fill orders. To be an official Grimaldi's pie, it needs to be made a certain way. Unlike most pizzerias, Grimaldi's builds its pizza cheese-first. Slices of mozzarella are and the gaps are then filled with sauce. Tony: So when it melts together, you're seeing a little bit of both, but you're also getting a not too much cheese. So that's what we're Narrator: Specialty toppings range from hand-pinched Italian sausage to thinly sliced And most pies are finished of the Grimaldi's Romano blend, extra-virgin olive oil, and a few pieces of fresh basil. To help streamline the cooking process, Grimaldi's uses a two-shelf system. So, we have our pre-stretch and then a stretching and We're pre-stretching, cheesing, throwing them on the and everyone standing on So that means they're the sauce on, they're finishing it off with the olive oil, the basil, and then finishing it off by The top shelf is so the oven guy knows that they're ready to go in the oven. Narrator: Working a coal oven takes years of experience to master. From memorizing cook times to keeping a consistent heat, it's not easy to make a perfect pie. Tony: So, what we're doing we're closing the door right away, we're giving it a pop of heat so we can actually move it around without ripping it or anything like that. What's rare about Brooklyn is that we use this You know, it's really If you're using a wooden stick, they're just breaking and drying out nonstop, especially when you're So, you can see it's only and they're already rising up. So, basically, I'm making give them a small spin, and then I'm actually just moving them into position right here. Narrator: The high heat only need a few minutes to cook. Water in the dough evaporates quickly, creating air bubbles and leaving behind a light, while charcoal gives the pizza a charred, slightly smoky flavor Outside, people begin queuing and waiting up to an hour to get a table. And 16 minutes after opening, the first and third are practically full. On the dining floor, you'll find servers with and a good sense of humor. Server: Oh, mommy, I'm hungry! Boom. Thank you, sir. You got it, papa. Narrator: While Grimaldi's a vast majority of its business Since 2005, Tony Muia, has been coming to So, if I can describe it would probably be legendary, because people love Grimaldi's. Tony: The key to making It's love. You take dough, cheese, it's just simple objects. But when you're building a pizza, it's a piece of art. So for us and for myself, it's the passion and love that makes it special.