You have all heard of Moore's Law. IBM's Robert Dennard invented the 1 capacitor, Such a thing sufficiently establishes a The man defined a decade of we explore a scaling trend ## Beginnings In the early 1970s, Robert Dennard to a research program to take proposed one-transistor DRAM idea. Which The program's very aggressive to about 0.00001 dollars, or one per bit of data. This was hundreds of The team did some math and realized that transistor in the DRAM design to about drain. This was crazy small considering that Would such a device work? Or would together that they merge? In such would punch through the gate and make it Dennard and the team wondered what of the transistor's dimensions by the same factor. If they do it right - some special necessary - then the transistor should Dennard's associate Hwa-Nien Yu, who Taiwan's semiconductor industry, built The team measured them and found that the A MOSFET works by creating an electric field to compel charge carriers to cross from That electric field's strength can be derived Scale down the voltage and channel distance by remains constant. Thusly, this new field can drive ## What It Means Dennard also opened the door to getting When studying the scaled down transistor, the transistor switched way This makes intuitive sense. The charge carrier but now it travels a shorter And since the voltage is now smaller, the smaller There is a formula, as there often is. The amount is called dynamic or switching power. It is one and is a function of capacitance, supply If you can shrink the transistor then we can scale up switching frequency without since switching power is where the transistor Imagine an IC with 10 transistors, consuming of each transistor so to allow us to double We get all the benefits of the shrink. transistors on the IC, the whole thing still ## Publishing result in 1972, and gave a talk at the He recalls in his oral history with he talked about scaling the gate oxide - the channel - from 100 nanometers Two years later, the IBM team &quot;Design of Ion-Implanted MOSFET's with IEEE Journal of Solid-State Circuits. It The team wanted to express their results in dimension-less scaling factor called Thus we have the famous statement, that if we then the voltage to supply that smaller K. The idea worked. We now have ## CMOS Scaling Engineers realized the value of Dennard a new type of MOSFET, Complementary CMOS devices are made up of a P-type MOS transistors. They are largely charged electrons and the other, Dennard Scaling implied that if we can scale then the device then gets 10 times the problem was the power supply voltage. Throughout semiconductor history, we This was largely for practical industry Why is this a problem? If the Gate Length shrinks too much without the voltage scaling powerful that it damages the gate. 5 This limitation meant that most people where performance is not needed. the industries got together and hashed Realizing that this was important to CMOS scaling, volts. It effectively allowed us to make better CMOS against very strong electric fields - and ## Short Channel Effects &amp; Leakage Dennard Scaling drove the CPU industry Then in the late 1990s, Intel CPUs' transistors shrank extremely rapidly - enabled by lithography tools. The shrink was The issue was that the industry's rules assumptions. Importantly, it physically shrinking every part We did for a while. But then the gate oxides Remember when people laughed at the idea And then the channel lengths long. New issues with doping made it More importantly, Dennard Scaling said Sub-threshold leakage is the residual current to the transistor is below the threshold The lower we try to scale the threshold voltage, node at the turn of the century, leakage power draw. This not only makes the transistor Worse yet, one of the factors affecting leakage the threshold voltage falls, which Leakage rises 2% for each Celsius degree increase CPU chip transistor temperatures were up to the 90 nanometer node. But transistor temperatures up an estimated 4.5 Back in 2003, the semiconductor industry's that by 2018 we would have chips with 53 But thanks to these power and heat issues, chips without effort and trade offs. As a out at 4 gigahertz per core since 2006. They ## Multicore companies introduced the concept of This is where you split up a job and have many available chip with multiple cores was the After that, there was AMD's dual Intel's Pentium D in 2005. AMD's &gt; &quot;Dual-core technology provides an performance with little or no increase But the multi-core era caught software there was this 2005 article by Herb that observed that most classes of performance gains without doing anything The end of Dennard Scaling ended the the CPU makers charged into the rolling back a lot of the tricks they those speeds. These rollbacks broke old Few programs at the time were entirely simulations for supercomputers. And there is only so much speed-up per a computer architecture Thus, it took a significant amount reprogram their software to take ## Dark Silicon More concerns emerged about the In the early 2010s - as the chip industry team led by Hadi Esmaeilzadeh at UC San Diego In a dark silicon world, Moore's transistors onto the chips at a rate of However, onerous power and heat limits mean that we have to be constantly shutting all power leaving them dark. Maybe as much as Such a scenario adds pressure on in a smart way to avoid hot spots while also interpretation then was that even if we what was the point if we can't ## Navigating the Dark Silicon World As it often is, things did not quite go the It is still possible to scale down the transistors just a very easy way to make it happen. New On Insulator or the FinFET have picked up the And Dennard's ending has helped us to move beyond where everything was single-thread and single generalized chip always being faster eventually pushed designers where functions are handled by a During operations, not all of these sections not in immediate use are &quot;dimmed&quot;. they might be underclocked or turned into a cache. An example of this is Arm's Big.Little paradigm, where four high-performance A15 cores is breached. Then they switch to more This worked extremely well during the mobile And then of course, we had the emergence of like those from Nvidia promised to take large core counts promised nearly ten years Looking back at it, Dennard's end and the start of think. It was a turning point in the technology forms of computing. If we had been able to scale 53 gigahertz CPUs, I wonder if GPUs and the like ## Conclusion The impending physical limits marking the end of It was easy to see that there was a or how short the channel can be made. Why did the I am not entirely sure, but I stumbled across website. It pointed me to a February 2004 Colwell was Chief Architect of Intel's I could not track down a recording of the talk, titled &quot;Things CPU Architects Need to Think &gt; Bob Colwell mentioned during this talk that one architect on the Pentium 4 was in part because he for the follow-up designs which were entirely &gt; For that reason and thermal density he declined to do it and that I went into Colwell's oral history and what he &gt; The last year I was there, I was not because I had parted company due of my and I did not want to work on the follow-up to &gt; I didn't think it was and going further down a path that I thought What I am guessing what happened is that Intel They chased it to such an gate length shrank even faster than Intel got hooked on this one single thing. their thumb on the rest of industry. Once