At the end of World War II, Japan was at zero. Then Godzilla came and made it Minus One. In the wake of this ruin, an extraordinary of fortuitous events, they came The discovery of the first transistor produce and use it. What can it be Amidst this race, this scrappy company founders - defied the odds and used the In this video, we look at how ## Beginnings I know the Acquired podcast did already. They did a great job, Akio Morita and Masaru Ibuka first met in produce a heat-seeking missile - the Ke-Go Ibuka was then 37 years old. Taller and heavier, he wore thick glasses and spoke with a working company supplying vacuum tube-based voltmeters and Morita was then 24 years old. Shorter, profile. He was then serving as a lieutenant Working on this missile project, the two The project failed, but the two became friends. When the Allies started bombing Tokyo, Ibuka Nagano. After the war ended, Ibuka brought up a little lab in a room on the third ## Return to Tokyo they took rucksacks to the Ibuka - who long considered his and worked hard to keep them engaged - They thought about making anything from they soon found work repairing old It got them featured in a column which caught the eye of Ibuka's Morita reached out and the two rekindled their join him, but since that was risky, Morita thought But then the American occupation General officers from teaching. That fateful decision ## Tokyo Telecommunications Morita's family ran one of Japan's biggest and oldest sake distilleries - been around over the business while it was in a Thusly, he groomed Akio - his first-born son over and run the business. But building vacuum tube radios and After a momentous meeting, the elder his son from the obligation to run the Though Akio did become its chairman and The Morita family also agreed to invest what for them was a lot of money - into the newly The name literally means &quot;Tokyo Later, whenever the company sought more capital does and went back to his parents for more the family owned 17% of Tokyo Telecommunications. The private funds of the Morita family first president Tamon Maeda - who father-in-law - kept the little company alive ## Morita and Ibuka Morita and Ibuka worked well together. Correction. Both were extremely technical. I already creative engineer, but Morita was physicist who ghost-wrote a science column Ibuka was 13 years the senior. Quiet but vision. Maybe a bit naive. His goal in life but honestly he lacked a good In the beginning before Morita arrived, electric rice cooker. It looked like a which is a fairly important prerequisite. The Morita on the other hand is animated and and liked to move fast to make but towards Ibuka he was &gt; Ibuka is a such a warm and honest to become tough and shrewd to protect him. Without Morita, Masaru Ibuka would have never Akio Morita would not have anything to sell. And unlike another famous engineer-sales recalled Ibuka and Morita fighting. It is ## Tape Recorder The company started off producing One of their first successes was a vacuum engineer on their team. They sold maybe which kept the doors open and the workshops busy. The company also grew close providing high quality broadcasting equipment and other professional equipment to replace These projects kept food on the table, but Morita and Ibuka wanted more - a machine visit to the GHQ, they came across a paper The team knew audio, and they felt that a Japanese. They acquired a few patents, of some nifty reverse-engineering, Tape recorder performance heavily tapes. But plastic was then still magnetic tape from paper covered In the beginning, they had people run hairbrush. The first tapes were so bad say &quot;Moshi Moshi&quot; or &quot;Hello&quot; in Japanese. kilograms and cost 170,000 yen or With the help of a trading company owned by the really - they sell their first tape recorder to an Oden shop in Tokyo station where it The Ministry of Justice bought the G-type in the H-type and the more portable P-type. Morita, recorders to companies and government. But yet Ibuka remained vexed. Whilst in an antiquities that he felt was worthless, paying he thought &quot;Why would someone buy this when The answer, of course, is obvious. The thing get smaller and cheaper. But what technology can ## Licensing the Transistor Japanese companies in the early 1950s looking The technology had to come from America, You can sign a patent licensing agreement Bell Labs' commercial telephone device subsidiary. The first transistor that Bell was the &quot;point contact transistor&quot;. It can but it turned out to be too Soon thereafter, Bell Labs' genius William a more resilient and commercially immediately recognize it as the one. So RCA did their own crash program rapid progress. One of their big the junction transistor first invented You made it by heat-fusing or alloying two very small pellets of indium about of a thin slice of germanium. RCA improved GE's By 1952, they started licensing their patents make their transistors. RCA did this because they licensed their patents as part of a Patent licensing as a business sell agreements to teach people how to use licensor of transistor technology - some 80 By contrast, Western Electric's main business licensing out the transistor technology because of Such an agreement did not mean they had to It reminds me of how Bell Labs They just sorta threw it at people and said "Here, go nuts". And kind of like the Unix situation, ## Western Electric In 1952, Ibuka takes his first trip the American tape recorder industry for learnings. But while in New York City, he learns through Western Electric transistor licensing upfront against future royalties Why Western Electric and not RCA? Most likely, Ibuka just couldn't get in touch with probably would not have been able to At the time, Ibuka knew as much about but he is immediately convinced that it is the Electric. Suspicious, Western Electric asks for a and recent financial reports. But eventually he $25,000 happens to be a lot of money you needed it in dollars at a to come by in Japan. The government Upon returning to Tokyo, Ibuka goes to for the money and was ridiculed. even in making vacuum tubes. Why do they ## A Risky Move But Ibuka is undeterred. He has use the transistor technology for: Radios. Radios small enough for a single person to gets fired up over the idea and when In August 1953, Ibuka takes a risk over to New York City to secure the But he is so persuasive and anxious to get going provisional to the Japanese government VP of licensing Frank Mascarich recalled later: &gt; I wasn't terribly pleased with the arrangement proceed with his plans, and after all, it took to the United States from Japan, that I decided to he could take it back with him and immediately Thusly, Morita came back with a few and a copy of the book &quot;Transistor In July 1953, even before Morita left five-person transistor task force led Iwama grew up with Akio, their two a long time. Despite originally trained Tokyo Telecommunications soon after its founding. 35 years young, rational and very level-headed, he ran the tape recorder division before He too knew nothing about transistors, But first, MITI. MITI is obviously annoyed as heck that Tokyo Telecommunications signed a deal Ibuka cannot be denied. He goes to MITI &gt; &quot;We intend to move forward with or deal with Western Electric and give us some A change in leadership shifted and they finally approved the funds in the time reading Shockley's 1950 book and then the Bell Labs &quot;Transistor Technology&quot; As soon as MITI approved the funds, New York to take the next step in the rest of the team back in Japan starts manufacturing line - furnaces, crystal pullers ## Learning It Unfortunately, the transistor Electric was not good enough to Western Electric originally thought were going to use their transistors for of the first transistorized Upon learning that Morita they told him that twelve other licensees capable of the higher frequencies Nevertheless, Ibuka and Iwama got on a plane and Allentown, Pennsylvania. But there, faced with for the first time, Ibuka wondered if he But Iwama did his homework. He taking in everything. Whenever he stopped and tried to ask about it At night, he writes and sketches remember. Pages of documents - as the &quot;Iwama Report&quot; - start flowing Until April 1954, Iwama visits several Western transistor factories - eventually filling four what they saw in the factory with what was laid ## Which Transistor? What Tokyo Telecommunications was trying to using the principle of the same name and is A radio signal is put out by the radio station. The superheterodyne receiver receives that signal, amplifies it, and then mixes it with another The resulting mixed signal, called is more convenient to process and amplify High frequency transistors are needed the Intermediate Frequency as well as to transistorizing the radio is creating those Iwama had to decide which of the two existing Alloy, which we discussed earlier, The junction transistor is a sandwich base, and collector with the base barriers in between these areas give Pioneered by Bell Labs, the grown junction Czochralski process - where you pull out or &quot;grow&quot; By selectively adding dopants we can produce the transistor sandwich During his visits, Iwama drew these carefully pulled the crystals out of for detailed schematics of the The difficulty and cost in recreating the decide for the team to start making PNP Some of Tokyo's Telecommunications' first in June 1954. A few were inserted but failed to make the cut. ## Grown Junction So what now? The Tokyo Telecommunications If you recall, you make an alloy two beads of Indium onto the Germanium. This particular arrangement got you It was theorized that it might be possible to polarities, so negative-positive-negative or NPN negative charge carriers or electrons travel At the same time, Iwama came to believe that volume production. His conceptual reasoning was With that, you have one step, the crystal pull. First the crystal pull and then the So the team shifted to making NPN Grown Junction dopants to add to a growing Germanium crystal team tried adding many different dopant During this process, a scientist named Tetsuo phosphorous and antimony, which failed. He then But amazingly, the resulting transistor was incredibly encouraging ... except Tsukamoto could not replicate the result Another team went to the library and found an the Bible of semiconductors, with an article It was incredibly discouraging for the team Right then, Iwama dropped by to see on and the discovery of the Bell journal &gt; But I remember you said you succeeded once. take all the responsibility, so don't worry if you So Tsukamoto kept at it. Three weeks later in phosphorous doping recipe that produced a suitably Western Electric's horror, Ibuka skipped a pilot ## The Transistor Radio The 1954 news of Texas Instruments producing the Regency TR-1, spurred the team at Tokyo they knew that a radio was possible. In early 1955, they completed their radio, the junction and two were alloy junction types. The so unstable that factory workers had to pick In August that year, the TR-55 selling for the equivalent of about first. People docked the relatively weak sound But in the summer of 1956, young people when they realized that the cost of its tube-based receivers. Improving transistorization Later, they realized that Tokyo Tsushin much sense as a name, especially in a new name for the product - ## Conclusion In producing a proper transistor Sony had to master both Even the Bell Labs' famous &quot;cookbook&quot; was a semiconductor line. They had to send one of document everything. Yes, in some ways But mere copying wasn't enough. They still and go back to basic first principles. Iwama's alloy junction. The realization to switch These are not possible without thoroughly you are breaking new ground in electronics practicality is necessary to succeed. And