Dr. Charles Stanley: We We pursue just about not only wealth clothing, gadgets. Just think about all the all kind of situations that crop up in our life. We're after this and after that's who we are. And somehow, amidst all of these front of us that so distract fits in the way we Is He first and foremost, Is He the most or is He just one of the Where does God fit? And when I think about where people's interest lies. And you say, &quot;Well, how do Well, listen to the subject of What are they talking about? Find out where Where do they spend their time? Who are their friends? What do they read? What do they believe? How do they act in The truth is, people are and pursuing the other, I think God except when And then all of a So I'd ask you this question: Where is God in your life? When you wake up in the thing you think about? When you go has God been in your vocabulary? Has He been in your mind? Or have you just been responsibilities and taking care of your family But where's God in all that? And so if I ask you: Well, why occupation or this search for be, or this relationship? Then there has to Well, how vigorously do you Is He an afterthought, or is He the number Well, all through the Scripture, we're admonished So what in the world Somebody says, &quot;Well, why I've been a Christian and I don't know why I something I already have.&quot; Well, I want you to And I want you to turn to Psalm for a moment, and I want Hundred and fifth Psalm it's a psalm of real action. And of course, look to see and who it's all about. Listen to what He says &quot;Oh give thanks to the make known His deeds Sing to Him, sing speak of all of His wonders. Glory in His holy name, who seek the Lord be glad. Seek the Lord and His strength, So notice, it's a Giving thanks, singing, speaking, all of these things With who God is, So I'd ask you this. If somebody said to you, what would you say? Would you have to say, And why should I seek But it's interesting in the we're admonished to seek. You go back in what Moses was the Lord, what David was saying Lord, and Isaiah and Jeremiah. And all through the Old admonished to seek Him. And when we come to that that whole biographical whose faith was so outstanding. And the Scripture says, we must believe that He is of those who seek Him. So when we think what are we thinking about? So, when I think about that, I If I'm already a believer it means that I want to go not just to be saved. And you probably trusted Jesus and you said, &quot;Well, you know, wrote my name in the Lamb's me with the Holy Spirit, That is just the When we are that means we're to come to seeking to build a deeper, more because that's what He's up to. He said He predestined that you image of His Son, and that intimate relationship with Him. So when I seek Him, I I want to have a more I want to talk to Him. I want to have a I want to be able to life in some fashion. If I'm seeking Him, I more deeply, more For example, if you got married wedding, and then you didn't talk to you'd say, &quot;I have Because it appears that interested in anything but just interested in getting to know could genuinely The same thing is true When you and I say, &quot;That's Our name's written in the we're on our way But the truth is, that is just the beginning. He wants us to get Because He desires That is, He does watch this carefully, He does where we are in There is a sense of and contentment and joy. At the same time, The more satisfied the more dissatisfied I become. The, listen, the more with what I learn in my then all that does is more yearning, more desire to and I ever, ever We never will. For example, if I like you sew with, a &quot;Okay, here's the Atlantic That's the way God is. He's fathomless. You and I will never but He desires that you and I So to seek Him is to listen to Him, to talk and to have a more intimate And many people, sadly to Jesus as Savior, getting baptized, living out the sense of real purpose, And, listen, and willing to acquaintance with Almighty God. That's not what the The Christian life is serious relationship with the God who has absolute power knows all things, and has That's who He is. And this is why, He says we're to seek Him with all of our heart. Now, when I think about how about the fact that we should two things, and that is let's view of a lost person. So, if a lost person Why should I be seeking God? I have a nice home. Or, &quot;I have a good car. I have a good job and Why do I want to seek God? I'm not a Christian. Here's what you tell them. You say, &quot;Well, let me give you you should seek God, beginning if you want to follow &quot;Isaiah, chapter fifty-nine should seek the Lord.&quot; Well, what is that? Well, here's number one, &quot;Your iniquities have made a and your sins have hidden that He does not hear you.&quot; If you've never trusted you don't have a And He says, besides that, and God are all these sins. And He cannot--you may whisper but He does not hear you. A second thing He says if you want to turn awesome chapter in the Bible. And here's a second reason I a Christian, that you ought here's what he says, he says in one, &quot;The wrath of God is ungodliness and unrighteousness &quot;who suppress the because that which is known them, and God has made That is, he says God's wrath, who have turned away. But a third reason you In this first chapter and a very serious when he says, &quot;And just as they God any longer, God gave to do those things A depraved mind is a mind that When a person lives in sin refuses the gospel, rejects the Their heart begins to harden. And he says a depraved cannot form right judgments. And what they don't &quot;Well, you know, it--I'm not concerned about church.&quot; You need to get concerned God's wrath rests upon you. And when you live in willfully reject Him, turn a deaf ear to the gospel, as He says in Hebrews, and that When does it harden? How long does it take? I don't know the answer to It would be like me walking over cheek and you It's a real tender place. But when you're When you hear the gospel again, there can come a And that would be the most to anybody, to sin against God for God, all desire for all interest in God walking like a dead man. So, when somebody says, person be seeking God?&quot; I'm answering that And that is simply for the dangerous thing not to It is a dangerous just temporarily dangerous. It is eternally dangerous of Jesus Christ. And of course, most of us but in First for example, He says the lost person does The lost person doesn't even You begin to understand when you Christ, and you begin to ask Then all of a sudden, the Spirit when you come to the But he says the lost people, they don't saying and why you're saying it. And here's what he says in that fourteenth verse, A--because they're The lost person Well, I thought God and I thought He answered And of course, you know chapter and the Here's one of the primary if you're a lost person. He says, &quot;The wages Three ways: there there is spiritual death, And a person who rejects refuses to seek Him, You're coming--you're you don't doubt that part. You're already dead spiritually. And number three, you which is spoken of chapter of the Revelation. That's eternal death, Bible calls the second death. I would say if you've there is a very specific, should be asking God surrender your life to Him. Okay, so somebody says, I understand that But here I am a Christian, and trust Jesus Christ as He comes into your life. The Holy Spirit comes in you as a child of God. So why should I be seeking God What am I looking for? Why am I seeking anything?&quot; Well, let's think When you trusted Jesus the Bible said He says you're like So you're born And so, why should Because God does not in babyhood in your That is, you can that's the only And so, you know you--that &quot;Here's what I did I know that I'm a Christian. What am I looking for in life?&quot; You've missed the whole point. Because, listen, he said He that when you were saved, you'd conformed to the Listen, God knows us. He wants us to know Him. He wants us to He wants us to He wants us to know Him in a getting some information So somebody says, &quot;Well contradiction that I have time I'm to seek Him.&quot; It's not a contradiction at all. Because what He's I want a relationship with you. I want a relationship with to you who I really am. I want you to I want you to understand comfortably trust Me I want you to know I want you to know that I have everything to work together for and love Me and I'll turn hardships, trials, suffering, I want you to get to know Me. Because, God, omnipotent, omnipresent. He's unchangeable. He's truthful. He's righteous. He's all of these things. And most people, &quot;Describe God,&quot; they could just they've never sought Him. Listen, if you love Him, you And if you're a you should be seeking And seeking to know Him information and But it's also listening and how does God act? That is, when I think about all know about God and am one of the things that I observe how He works. I want to know how God thinks. I want to know why He why He does the other. Do I have all the answers? But I have enough to keep me seeking and listening and not only in my life, but in And one of the ways that God what He wants to do in our life what He's doing in We watch how He operates in &quot;Well, Lord, You are blessing to be obedient to You He wants us to know Him, and to people have no interest or know Him on that level. Listen, we know Him about that He's absolutely fathomless. You'll never exhaust who He is. It'll always be that. As we said before, and I say it you begin to understand You want more and You say, &quot;Well, when Never! And the reason people become exciting happens in their life way, they got the idea, and sort of sit down.&quot; No, you get saved and listen, not get busy working, but busy finding out who is this here's what you did. Without any proof when you trusted Him as your Savior, You say--you said, &quot;I believe so to speak, my whole You don't have any proof except So, if I were you, I'd get to going to spend eternity and this this God who controls my life this God who controls every He wants us to know Him. And if you're not you need to stop and ask what's going on in my that kind of excitement? Now, let's think Somebody says, &quot;Well, isn't God Yeah. &quot;Is He in my heart Yes, He is. Let's say that you get you don't read your Bible. You're thinking about what when you get to work. You don't start You're thinking about when you get to work. You may live till lunch time give Him almost no thought, Then He's number one. I think about people who live any time seeking the Lord. When you go to bed at thing you're thinking about? What you've got to do the somebody to help you do it? Where is God--in other in your category, and the any given day, where is In other words, if I sat down while and just--we I wonder if God's Well, yeah, it would Okay, chalk that to pastor one of your friends. How much conversation do you never mention God, Jesus, never mention the Bible. You never talk about how You never give a testimony. Then where is He in your life? Is He any kind of a priority? He says we're to seek Him with all of our heart. And I think many people it never dawns on Him, I'll talk about Him. If I love Him, I That He'll be my Watch this. Watch this carefully. Whatever is your number sooner or later, you, listen, you're going to hurt it be damaged by it. Whatever is number one I can tell you something. He already has His hand on it us too much to let He says we're to seek Him. So, it's a daily challenge in ask ourselves the am I in one of those stages living the Christian life? Am I serious about following He says we're to seek Him. Now--which leads me to here for a moment, and that is, Him, seeking and all this, What's required of us if Listen, we're talking relationship with Almighty God. Well, what's required of me? Can I say, &quot;Well, you I will; and I'll and when I go to Or is this serious business? So first of all, let seek Him with all of our heart. And I want you to turn to the because here's a and most committed believers We're to seek Him And that means He's a priority. He's number one. He's the most Listen to this, verse eleven, &quot;For I know the declares the Lord, &quot;plans for &quot;not for calamity to give Then you will call upon Me Me, and I will listen to you.&quot; Listen to this now, You will seek Me and find with all your heart.&quot; Here's what that says to me. It says to me in my seeking If I said to you, &quot;I love you right to expect some things. Anybody who says to you, &quot;I love going to affect their their time with you, whatever it might be. We're to love Him, He And I think when a person what do you think about when Doing something for Him? Or is there an A deep, abiding, hungering, listen, to go deeper and If you really love somebody, for example, or even if you're whatever it might be, love them, what happens? You want to do Or you want to be with them. But most of all, listen, get on the inside of them And so, if I'm to seek then this is not a But, if I'm going to something I have to remember. In Isaiah, fifty-five, look at Isaiah fifty-five, very, very important. If I'm going to seek the here's something I In this fifty-fifth chapter &quot;Seek the Lord call upon Him while He is near. Let the wicked forsake His thoughts, and let him Now, watch this. Watch this carefully. I cannot seek the Lord over here In other words, I'm either going to live I'm not going to do both. I--there may be a time in your and maybe there's some but listen, and you're having but listen, if you're there's a struggle, If you're seeking the Lord and the two, you, listen, you looking for and hold on to some your iniquities have That doesn't mean you're going Christian, but you cannot play If I love Him, if I'm willing to get rid of all of that don't fit who I am Then when I seek Him, I'm going to find out something. I'm going to have a beyond my comprehension. But I must seek Him Now, you have to ask yourself other desires are in your life? Here's a very Deuteronomy chapter four. Look at this fourth chapter And sometimes Christians things and they should not. And listen to this We're talking about if you can't have other Listen to this, verse &quot;And beware not to lift up your and the moon and the stars, and be drawn away and those which the Lord your peoples under the Now, you say, &quot;Well, I'm not Well, let me ask you a question. What is that piece in month of birth on it? What's that piece? The horoscope. That what it is? You say, &quot;Well now, that Why do you read it? Did you know that if you He says don't do that. Because what do you know, what's in the heavens and under that or You need to be born again, What I want you to see, what I that from God's perspective, He says we're not to be We are to be doing what? With all of our heart, And you remember He said, &quot;My heart pants after after the water brook.&quot; So I would ask you: What are What is it that What is it that motivates you? Who is it you want to know? What is it you What do you want God If God said, &quot;Okay, write it out,&quot; what And after you wrote it purpose and plan for your life? Would it fit the Word Sometime somebody says, &quot;Well, Well, I can tell Just decide you're going And you say, &quot;Well, how am I In the Word of God, He We are to seek Him Here's what most people do, they believe about seeking God. I have a whole list of Here's what I'm seeking God.&quot; You're not interested in God. You're interested in what God What He says is: I just want Now, if you're not a Christian, with you, and I understand that. But most of you are and watching and listening are. You're believers. Where does He fit in And if you'll think about then I have an idol in my life. If He's not--you say, Is she number one or Are your children number Is your job number one What do you treasure most? What do you possess You possess Christ. Do you treasure Him most? Or is there something that you treasure more? Whatever it is, I can tell He's going to So, I'm to seek Him Secondly, I'm to Listen to what he chapter eight and Proverbs eight seventeen, He says, for example, &quot;I and those who diligently Now, why does He say diligently? Here's the reason: because we our mind, many If I'm going to it means I'm I'm willing to set Diligently doesn't mean think about it once in a while. Diligently means it I'm willing to work at it. I'm willing to I'm willing to put It becomes number one, I'm going to work at that, He says when we because most people do not. And see, let me just say this. When people just go to and they say, &quot;Well, you it for this week.&quot; What have you done? You've satisfied some If that's all the relationship there's something We're to seek Him diligently. For example, if you have But if you were and they give you studying, you're not I'll just read this I'm going to skip this They're not going to You wouldn't do that. If you knew that your livelihood by how you did well on this You would diligently study it. I mean, you'd stay up all night. And I can remember times in on the same day, staying up all night I had to. I diligently studied What are you diligent about? Are you diligent about anything? You're willing to exert For example, are you children, spending Are you diligent about Are you diligent about how Are you diligent Do you exercise? Do you get enough rest? And we have a lot of sick diligent about their health. To be diligent And I'm going to give it time. I'm going to pray. How can I do my very, very best? To seek the Lord diligently else--something And then we should Let me ask you a question: Can that you should Anything. Is there anything that you don't You say, &quot;Well, I don't need dress--how I'm going Well, that depends on who Can you name anything of any shouldn't be praying Living in the society we should be praying In other words, every time you He is the number one You say, &quot;Always?&quot; We're to seek Him diligently and Not sometimes, but all the time. Go back to Isaiah again, and I should be but I should also, listen, I and here's the reason why. Let's say, for example, to face some decisions. We may all face decisions this whatsoever because we didn't But whatever the issue may should be seeking Because He says, &quot;For My nor My ways your For as the heavens are so are My ways higher thoughts higher So if I want to make a, listen, decision in the situation, I highest of thoughts, who knows every single solitary this situation or circumstances. For example, you're You think you love somebody, &quot;You need to be very diligent seeking the mind of God right person or the right time.&quot; You say, &quot;Well, I know Has God--let me just say this. Everybody needs an alarm system. Now, you can buy one real but that's not what I'm talking about on the inside. And you do have one Now, I can tell Mine doesn't have but it sounds [making static noises] Something's not right. When I get static in my soul, I direction, I'm I need to back what are You saying to me?&quot; You say, &quot;Well, God doesn't Yes, He will. Your static may not but what He does, it's that sense of lack of assurance. Can't put your finger on it, but you know it's static. And every time I have it was the wrong thing to do. 'Cause listen, God has given you knowledge and understanding. And if you have a listen, if you want your single time, obey God. Commit yourself to and you know what Anytime you're heading the wrong Because He loves you, and and that's why we're to And I can't think of anything in that should leave out of Because, listen, He's so accurately guide you in And this is why I don't have to pray about that, You know what It's bad news. The natural man is the lost man. And it's our naturalness And so, we're to seek Him we're to seek Him continually He said, &quot;Seek Me continually higher than your ways, My thoughts are higher And if you're always seeking Me divine guidance, I'm going to wrong decision, which could be a Then of course, we're And you see, this is Some of you've been &quot;Well, that's what but He won't do Yes, He will, because He And that's why He says those believing Him, Is God willing Is He willing to Is He willing to tune up question any longer that God or He said, &quot;Yes, I Because living this think about the society It is--it has never in the life of this nation. More homes, more more trial, more heartaches, but than ever before in the We need a personal, intimate none, seeking Him there is in life. And when we do, we're Then, he says we're to seek And, Psalm, let's see, Listen to this passage. Everything that we about's in the Word of God. Listen to what he says in the Watch this, &quot;The wicked, in the does not seek Him. All his thoughts are, Here's the worst thing that When you get to the &quot;Don't need to go to church. I don't need God.&quot; And you think, &quot;Well, Yes, they do. They'll say to me, I have my family, I have a nice got a good job, I've got plenty of Why do I need God?&quot; And I want to say to them, &quot;The in this life is Jesus. He is the only And because He's the Lord, whether we we ought to be pursuing that else in life we're totally And pride and arrogance is single time, no exception.&quot; He says we're to seek Him. And that is we're to come to Him we desire Him and love Him. Now, there are so many--lot but I want to bring this the unbeliever seek the Lord? I could spend time telling you seek Him, and For example, He bless us, be good to us, We won't miss out on any good. In other words, His But what about the unbeliever? When should the So I want to give you I want to go back to When should the And here's what he says, There's a key word here. The Bible says, You listening, say amen. That's a little light. &quot;Seek the Lord Secondly, &quot;Call upon while He may be found.&quot; If you sin and sin and you become hardened what happens is you don't care. It isn't that God ceases This is why it's so to listen to the gospel. He said, &quot;Seek Him When you listen and you it may be doubts, whatever while He may be found. Oftentimes God is knocking door and you don't You think it's something Seek Him while He may be found. Listen, He says, &quot;Call That is, a sense of You can't put your fingers on You just know that God's there. That's the Holy Spirit making or standing or lying in the is ready to do And if you're willing to ask Him to cleanse you based on He's willing to radically change You will have responded to the and in doing so, cleanses you, writes your Your life is changed forever. He says seek Him, listen, while He can be found. Or if you let your listen, you walk out &quot;Well, I got some And you go out tonight and you and you know what happens? You just got a It's dangerous. It's dangerous to hear the The hardness of your You've--&quot;I've heard that for hasn't made any difference in my things you could ever say. He says we are to seek Him with all of our heart. And there's no point in shouldn't be seeking Him. And when He says when He's near. You say, &quot;Well why--how--what I mean--and if you understand what I'm saying. I'll give you an There are times, for example, especially when I'm studying and Word and I'm not trying I'm just sitting there reading I'm just working on a message. All of a sudden, I It used to confuse me. And then I began to realize, the awareness of Your I have no explanation. I don't have to I just know He's there. And sometimes I just get on my weep and weep, When I get up, you ask me, I guess God was just loving me. That's all I can tell you. Watch this, it has nothing nothing, nothing, It has to do with if you and I show up sometime and just love is, and realize why we because He's seeking us. He's seeking to sit on He's seeking to be He's--He's seeking you to listen so He can bless It's God working. It would be a shame for you It would be a shame for you and just lay it aside. It'd be worse than a You and I are responsible for And all you've done And all I've listen, seek the Lord. Talk to Him, listen to Watch how He works, observe profit from it, that you more intimately with Him. So He can use you to the You don't want to You don't get but one trip. And that's my prayer for you. If you've never trusted here's what you can do. Realizing that you've sinned the Bible says and God says, between you and God is that sin. And that sin blocks It hinders what He He will radically Listen, you will be eternally and was patient with you trusted Him as your Savior. If you ask Him to not based on how you don't have any goodness, but to the cross, laid down You say, &quot;What's this price?&quot; God is a just God. God is a just God, which Here's what He said. &quot;In the day that you eat in this garden, What He was When He said, &quot;The soul that &quot;The wages of sin is death.&quot; Well, how can God forgive sinneth, it shall Here's how He did it. When God the sent His Son to He was His perfect Son, He killed His Son on the cross sins, the only sacrifice acceptable And it's His death and God's payment for the so that any person who comes to accepting Jesus Christ you're forgiven of your sins. Your name is written in You're forever a child of God. That's what can if you'll let Him do it. Surrendering your life to Him, the priority of your And Father, how grateful we We don't have to plead. We don't have to doubt. We just know that is absolutely the truth. And that anyone who is willing sin and surrender their life to and to Your will, everything And we are grateful beyond our in Jesus's name, amen.