Every human used to have to hunt or gather to survive. But humans are smart...ly lazy so we made tools to make our work easier. From sticks, to plows, to tractors we've gone from everyone needing to make food to, modern agriculture with almost no one needing to make food -- and yet, we still have abundance. Of course, it's not just farming, it's thousand years building tools to reduce physical Stronger, more reliable, and more tireless And that's a good thing. Replacing human labor and that leaves everyone better off - even those grow and standards of living rise. Some people have specialized to be programmers minds. Just as mechanical muscles made human making human brain labor less in demand. This is an economic revolution. You may think This time is different. ## Physical Labor When you think of automation, you probably efficient, but really dumb robots blind to scary kind of automation but they haven't cost effective in narrow situations. But they're the old kind of automation, this Meet Baxter. Unlike these things which require skilled Baxter has vision and can learn what And he costs less than the average annual brothers he isn't pre-programmed for one specific reach of his arms. Baxter is what might be general purpose is a big deal. Think computers, they too started out as highly general-purpose computers appeared they quickly A general-purpose computer can just as easily or play a game or do anything just by swapping of all kinds is what makes them both more Baxter today is the computer of the 1980s. if Baxter is slow his hourly cost is pennies competition costs minimum wage. A tenth the hundredth the price. And while Baxter isn't talk about, he's smart enough to take over And we've already seen how dumber robots than what used to be 30 humans is now one human Or take the hundreds of thousand baristas employed for them. Sure maybe your guy makes the double-mocha-whatever else -- but millions of people don't care by the way this robot is actually a giant and how you like your coffee no matter where We think of technological change as the fancy from last decade's stuff getting cheaper and now. And because their mechanical minds are humans for jobs in a way no pure mechanical ## Luddite Horses Imagine a pair of horses in the early 1900s these new mechanical muscles will make horses The other reminds him that everything so far that farm work? Remember running from coast-to-coast All terrible. These city jobs are pretty cushy, and with so many humans in the cities there will be more jobs for horses than ever. Even if this car thingy takes off - he might say - there will be new jobs for horses we can't imagine. But you, dear viewer, from beyond 2000 know but nothing like before. The horse population nothing but down. There isn't a rule of economics that says for horses. It sounds shockingly dumb to even and suddenly people think it sounds about As mechanical muscles pushed horses out of same to humans. Not immediately, not everywhere, that it's going to be a huge problem if we You, like the second horse, may look at the possibly replace your job. But technology biology can't match. Just as the car was the beginning of the end the shape of things to come. ## Automobiles Self-driving cars aren't the future: they're travelled hundreds of thousands of miles up cities -- all without human intervention. The question is not if they'll replaces cars, they just need to be better than us. Humans year with cars just in the United States. don't text while driving, don't get sleepy than humans because they already are. Now to describe self-driving cars as cars horses. Cars in all their forms are so much your thinking about what they can even do. are: Autos: the solution to the transport-objects-from-point-A-to-point-B sized to transport humans but tiny autos can work in pit mines. Moving stuff around is industry in the United States employs about that's something like 70 million jobs at These jobs are over. The usual argument is that unions will prevent fought technology that would replace them wins and there are huge incentives across For many transportation companies, humans just the straight salary costs. Humans sleeping Accidents cost money. Carelessness costs money. it, guess what? Their perfect driver is one into an accident. The autos are coming and they're the first robots changing society. But there are many thing is happening, just less visibly. So it goes with autos, so it goes for everything. ## The Shape of Things to Come It's easy to look at Autos and Baxters and low-skill jobs we don't want people doing educated jobs -- like they've always done. Even ignoring the problem of pushing a hundred-million white-collar work is no safe haven either. and typing and clicking -- like maybe you're are coming for you too, buddy. Software bots are both intangible and way that white collar workers are, from a company's numerous -- the incentive to automate their And that's just what automation engineers entire job is to replace your job with a software You may think even the world's smartest automation job -- and you may be right -- but the cutting writing bots, it's super-smart programmers do things the programmer could never teach How that works is well beyond the scope of limited ways to show a bot a bunch of stuff stuff, and it can figure out how to do the Even with just a goal and no knowledge of how stock market which, in many ways, is no longer themselves to trade stocks, trading stocks As a result, the floor of the New York Stock day jobs anymore, it's largely a TV set. So bots have learned the market and bots have lately you've probably already read a story teach bots to write anything: sports reports that you write at work. Paper work, decision making, writing -- a and the demand for human metal labor is these are safe from bots? Yes? ## Professional Bots When you think 'lawyer' it's easy to think drafting legal documents, predicting the likely called 'discovery' which is where boxes of need to find the pattern or the one out-of-place This can be bot work. Discovery, in particular, Not because there isn't paperwork to go through, clever research bots shift through millions not weeks -- crushing human researchers in importantly, accuracy. Bots don't get sleepy But that's the simple stuff: IBM has a bot destroy humans at Jeopardy -- but that was Watson's day-job is to be the best doctor in their own words and give back accurate Slone-Kettering, giving guidance on lung cancer Just as Auto don't need to be perfect -- they the same goes for doctor bots. Human doctors are by no means perfect -- the terrifying -- and human doctors are severely medical history. Understanding every drug drug is beyond the scope of human knowability. Especially when there are research robots drugs at a time. And human doctors can only improve through their the experiences of every doctor bot. Can read of everything that happens to all their patients be impossible to find otherwise. Not all doctors will go away, but when the doctor only as far away as your phone -- the need So professionals, white-collar workers and from automation. But perhaps you are unfazed because guess what? You're not that special. ## Creative Bots Creativity may feel like magic, but it isn't. the most complicated machine in the whole trying to simulate it. There is this notion that just as mechanical that mechanical minds will allow us to But even if we assume the human mind is magically creative -- it's artistic creativity isn't what the majority of jobs and directors and actors and artists who actually tiny portion of the labor force. And given on popularity they'll always be a very small There can't be such a thing as a poem and painting Oh, by the way, this music in the background Her name is Emily Howell and she can And people can't tell the difference between her and human composers when put to a blind test. Talking about artificial creativity gets weird But it's nonetheless a developing field. People used to think that playing chess was could never do right up until they beat the ## Conclusion Right: this may have been a lot to take easy to be cynical of the endless and idiotic that's why it's important to emphasize again that are here right now. There is a terrifying around the world. We have been through economic revolutions Horses aren't unemployed now because they There's little work a horse can do that do And many bright, perfectly capable humans through no fault of their own. But if you still think new jobs will save US census in 1776 tracked only a few kinds jobs, but the new ones are not a significant Here's the list of jobs ranked by the number list with the transportation industry at the in some form a hundred years ago and almost when we get to number 33 on the list is there Don't that every barista or white collar worker need lose their job before things are a problem. The unemployment rate during the great depression This list above is 45% of the workforce. Just already works, can push us over that number technological wonderland new kinds of work this is a big problem. This video isn't about how automation is bad a tool to produce abundance for little effort. do when large sections of the population are What to do in a future where, for most