The Vikings have long been recognized as the lords of the early medieval ocean. In their speedy longships they travelled from Britain to Persia, leaving behind burned monasteries and looted settlements. Men and women prayed for God to save them from the wrath of the Northmen, and children were told to behave - lest the Vikings come for them next. But there was a people, that even the Vikings feared. They came from the southern Baltic in similar ships as theirs, but faster, and far more numerous. These fleets were mobile cavalry units, carrying horses and riders, quickly able to make landfall and sweep the countryside. Their raids were swift, deadly, and profitable. The shores of Denmark, Sweden and Norway were littered with corpses, and smoking ruins. Nowhere was safe... from the Wends. But, who exactly were the Wends? They were a Slavic people inhabiting the south-western Baltic, from the northern coast to the Bohemian border, the Elbe in the West and the Oder in the East. The name of &quot;Wends&quot; was given to them by foreign writers, including Romans, Celts, and Germans. They were far from a unified people, and consisted of many tribes like the Obotrites, Liutitshy and Pomeranians. They had lived in this area since the migration period, when the German inhabitants moved further south to conquer France, Spain, and Italy. The Wends were far from isolated, having traded and mingled with their neighbors for hundreds of years. Archaeological findings from Scandinavia include Wendish pottery. The Vikings were known to both trade with and plunder from the Wends. They sometimes took Wendish wives, and according to legend, established a castle called Jomsborg on the island of Rugen. Little is heard of the Baltic Slavs before the time of Charlemagne. Being rivals of the neighboring Saxons, the Wends were sometimes found as allies to the Franks in their military campaigns. But when the Saxons were subjugated, the Franks turned their attention to the Wends. Charlemagne never managed to fully subjugate the Wends, but forced them to pay tribute to his Empire. Slavic and German conflicts would burn slowly but constantly for the next few hundred years. The Wends had traditionally been a decentralized, and seemingly quite peaceful, agricultural people. But military pressure from their hostile neighbors obliged them to organize. The population rallied under powerful chieftains, the Knes, who established armed forces and taxed the populace. Power was centered around castles built from earth and wood. These were called &quot;Grad&quot; or &quot;Gorod&quot;. Some of these were often found on articial islands in lakes and marshes, making them near impregnable. Most of the labor was done by a slave caste called &quot;cholop&quot;. They were criminals, or prisoners of war from Germany, Scandinavia, and neighboring tribes. The increasing costs of maintaining large fortifications and armed forces drove the Wends into piratical expeditions. The warriors were paid for in plunder and slaves. This was hardly any different from their neighbors. What distinguishes the Wends from other Northern European peoples was how urbanized they were. In the 10th century onwards, sprawling metropoli were established along the Baltic coast. Cities like Oldenburg, Lubeck, Stettin and Wolgast all have Wendish origin. They were called Stargard, Liubice, Szczecin and Vologost. In total they built around a dozen heavily urbanized cities along the Baltic coast and rivers. In comparison, 11th century Sweden had only three cities of notable size. The cities were home to a wealthy merchant class, who ruled in oligarchic councils. Some swore allegiance to a nearby knes, but a few others were independent city-states. The councils were responsible for organizing expeditions of trade and piracy, with the chieftains providing warriors to man the ships. There appears to have been a mutual influence between Wendish and Scandinavian shipbuilding. Wendish boats were smaller than the Viking longship, being eight to fourteen meters in length, but speedier as a result. Just like viking vessels they were clinker-built, but the planks were fastened with wooden instead of metal nails - - called trenails. Caulking, filling in the gaps between the woodwork, was distinctively done with moss. Most notably, the Slavonic boats were built to carry two horses. Cavalry was an intrinsic part of their maritime assaults. They would land close to their target, and storm the settlement with fast and numerous forces. The Wendish King Ratibor, allegedly commanded a fleet of some 550 ships, meaning his horsemen would've counted eleven hundred. The Wendish were small and fast, and the riders were skillfull warriors. Being lightly armored they were often outmatched in pitched confrontations with heavy cavalry, and so preferred raids, ambushes, and hit-and-run tactics. The expeditions were preceded by religious ceremonies, during which copious amounts of food and alcohol were consumed. Some of their rituals included animal, and even human sacrifice. Power in the Wendish realm was shared almost equally between the merchants, chieftains and priesthood. Being a pagan people, they worshiped such deities as Triglav, the three-headed god, or Perun, the God of Thunder. Svarog was the Lord of Heaven and the creator of everything, including Svantovit, the Sun-God. They had even adopted worship of some Viking deities, like Odin. When the pirates returned home, one third of the plunder was offered to Svantovit. Indeed, the Pagan priesthood was well organized and powerful. Even Danish Kings offered them tribute, and at the religious site of Arkona they maintained a cavalry unit of 300 horsemen. In appearance, the priests had long hair and long beards. In other European countries, Pagan chieftains adapted Christianity as a way to seize power from the pagan priests, and to centralize their own power. Christianity was also a lucrative method of opening up new trade routes. So it might seem strange that the Wendish Knes never converted. As further evidence: When the Wendish lords were eventually subjugated, made into German or Danish vassals, and converted to Christianity by force, they actually became more powerful, having taken all the power from the priests. It is likely that Christianity was heavily associated with the German enemy, who wanted to take away the Wendish lands. Thus, opposing Christianity was a way of opposing invasion. The Wendish depredations were utterly devastating. Their raids reached as far as Norway, but Denmark suffered the most. Saxo Grammaticus described how Zealand was laid barren, and the eastern coast emptied of inhabitants. The still-populated areas were forced to pay tribute, or somehow managed to keep the Wends away by force. When Ratibor sacked the Norwegian city of Kongshalla, the captives were ransomed, or sold into slavery. Some areas of Denmark may have been occupied, since they have names of possibly Slavic origin. So how did the vikings respond to the Wendish attacks? Coastal regions were usually depopulated, with the inhabitants moving further inland. Pole blockages were erected in the rivers, long pales and stakes, to prevent attacking fleets from moving further inland. Remnants of pole blockages have been found as far north as the lakes around Stockholm. No written records exist of Wendish attacks on Sweden(or rather, Eastern Sweden, modern day Western Sweden aka Geatland was attacked) but the fear of the Wends was certainly real. When the Wends encountered these blockages, they'd simply use them to moor their ships. They landed on the shore and made speedy incursions into the interior. Sometimes, nature was the only good defense. In 1157, a fleet of fifteen hundred Wendish ships went under in a storm in Kattegatt. The survivors who washed ashore, were found by the local peasantry, who didn't show any mercy. The best defence was a good offense. Denmark became especially good at launching punitive expeditions. They organized a heavy cavalry force, and built large ships that could carry four horses at once. Captured pirates could not expect good treatment. When the Danish captured the city of Wolin, the surrendered pirates were tied to poles and disembowelled. However, these counter-piracy operations were little more than piratical expeditions in and of themselves. The northern rulers lacked the resources, tradition and interest to permanently occupy their defeated rivals. At best, an opponent might be forced to pay tribute. Though the Danish were Christian, the religious undertones of these early conflicts were minor. Insignificant. In a peace treaty, the Wends might be forced to worship Christ, but as soon as the Danes left, they went back to their pagan deities. And the Danes likely knew this... and likely didn't care. A change started to happen in the 1150s. Wendish raids against the Danish grew more intense, and its rulers needed an actual solution. Part of the solution was private initiative. In 1151, a Dane in Roskilde named Vedeman established an organization of pirates. Their goal was to fight the Wends. Part of his operation was to liberate Christian slaves captured by the Wends, and he received heavy support from both the nobles, merchants, and common folk. During his career, Vedeman allegedly captured over 80 ships. Though he was surely motivated by greed and the lust for battle, the plight of his countrymen, friends and family must not be understated. We have some information on how Vedeman's pirates were organized. They split their plunder somewhat evenly, and operated under strict, Christian law. Every pirate had to confess and take the communion before going to sea. Some historians have interpreted Vedeman's organization as religious, akin to the Knightly Orders of the Templars and Hospitallers. State initiative was vital in stopping the Wends. This operation has posthumously been called the &quot;Wendish Crusade&quot;, even though it was only vaguely supported by the Pope, who was poorly informed in the affairs of the region. The main goal wasn't religious: it was to stop piracy. Still, I'll refer to it as a Crusade for simplicity's sake. The leading masterminds of the Crusade were the Bishop Absalon and King Valdemar the 1st of Denmark. Their early operations were poorly organized piratical raids. Over time, Absalon and Valdemar learned from their mistakes, and their efforts became more effective. Large expeditions were expensive, so they preferred small lightning strikes with professional troops, unlikely to desert if things turned bad or boring. Large armies were likely to mutiny if they didn't get enough plunder. Absalon also made the radical move of using religion as a tool. If a Dane refused to support the war effort, he threatened them with excommunication. The Danes became good at exploiting local rivalries. Though the Wends were numerically superior to the Danes, they were less unified. The Danes would ally with one city against another. Religion was irrelevant: In the 1160s they allied with the pagan Rugians to take down the wealthier city of Vologost. Without their allies, the Crusade would've been a failure. The Danes lacked knowledge about the local region, the geography, the best anchorages, hideouts, places to provision and so forth. Information which only their allies could provide. The pirates preferred guerilla tactics: hiding their ships in small coves or behind islands, and jumping out at isolated Danish ships. So the Danish made their conquered or allied cities block the riverways, denying the pirates access to safe anchorages and provisions. Coastal villages were burned to provoke the pirates and lure 'em into the open. However, the Danes knew from experience that their raids would only result in retalitations. To break this bloody cycle, they constructed a system of garrisoned towers around key locations on the Danish coast. Naval squadrons patrolled the coastline, and Wendish raids became increasingly rare as a result. Whilst the Danes were fighting the Wends at sea, the Germans were quick to exploit the Wendish weakness. Their goal was to colonize the region. The process began with small units of heavy cavalry attacking the scattered warriors and settlements. They built small wooden forts to defend their frontier possessions, paving the way for settlement by priests and colonists. The surviving Wends were slowly made to abandon their old ways, and be integrated into the German system. Other Wendish rulers surrendered to the Germans, accepted Christianity and became their vassals. The Danes and Germans were as often allies as they were enemies. The Germans exploited Danish aggression to claim Wendish territory. In turn, the Danes became dependent on German expansion. But when both became strong and the Wends weak, they turned on each other, often in cold war style conflicts where they might incite the Wends to rebel against the other. When these uprisings became too strong, the Christians allied again. It was a messy free-for-all. The Danish would come out the victors. The leader of the Germans, Henry the Lion, had been granted the autonomy to do as he pleased in the north. But when he got too powerful, the Emperor revoked his titles, and Henry was exiled to England. This power vacuum allowed Denmark to become the sole power in the western Baltic. The island of Rugen was home to the temple-city of Arkona, where the great idol of Svantovit was offered massive tribute by the pirates. When the Danish finally attacked and conquered the city, Svantovit was taken down and hacked to pieces. His treasure was given to Valdemar, and the islanders forced to become Christian. They swore allegiance to the Danish crown, but retained some local autonomy. The Pope himself was happily surprised over the success, and sent his congratulations. From then on the Kings of Denmark would call themselves &quot;Kings of the Vends&quot;. Their full title would be King of the Danes, Goths and Vends - this title was then usurped by the Swedes in 1540, which is why both the Danish and Swedish monarchies, used the flag with three crowns. The Wends made a last attempt at attacking Denmark in 1172. The Danish fleet was hastily alerted, and met the pirates at the Battle of Falster. The Danes won, and Absalon had the pirate heads put on display, a warning to all: Pyrates, Ye Be Warned! This was the end of Wendish piracy. Fighting would persist until the turn of the century, but Denmark had effectively won, and established itself as a Baltic superpower. For the next few hundred years, the Baltic would be theirs to dominate. Though the Wends had been defeated, a new threat loomed from the east. When the Danes landed on the island of Oland in Sweden, they found it occupied by pirates from Finland and Estonia. Their efforts to control the Baltic were far from over. However, the coming conflicts would take on a much more religious undertone, as the Pope declared all-out crusades against the Lithuanians and Latvians, leading to the foundation... of the Teutonic Knights. If you'd like to learn more about the naval organization of the Danish and Scandinavian realms, please check out my video on the Leithangr. If you'd like to see videos on Denmark's rise to power, facilitated through piracy, or the Baltic crusades, or the Teutonic Knights, please tell me in the comments. The reason I made this video was due to the great interest in the topic on my video about the floating forts built across the Baltic, many of whom were innovated by the Wends... the forgotten scourge.