Get ready to discover the vibrant heart of Spain. beautiful city of Madrid, home to iconic cultural heritage. From the historic Puerta del Sol to the magnificent Royal Palace, we'll take you on a thrilling tour of the city's must-see sites. So sit back, relax, and get ready to explore the main Madrid sites with us. Hola, ?que tal? and Portugal, where we help you plan the and insider tips. Let's jump directly to Discover the pulsing heart of Madrid's rich history, the Madrid Habsburgs, is a historic neighborhood, a living left their mark on the city with magnificent past. Step into the streets of Habsburg Madrid yourself in the rich history of the neighborhood. endless bars, restaurants and lively atmosphere and night. A walk through this historic center landmarks, making it a must-visit destination for the Plaza Mayor, Madrid's main square, built during shape and surrounded by three-story residential opinion, give the restaurants on the square a miss, is the Mercado de San Miguel, Saint Michael's visiting Madrid. It is a true work of art and one still be seen in Madrid. Sadly, it is no longer a again, if you like our opinion, go inside the market, much better places in the center of Madrid for tapas tour video. Another highlight of the Madrid is the Plaza de la Villa, the Village Square, a sides by well-preserved examples of typical Madrid a prison and for a long time the Casa de la Villa, temple of Habsburg Madrid is the Catedral de la the patroness of Madrid. It is a relatively modern just completed in 1993. If you like to go inside climb to the terraces, with lovely views of Madrid, is the magnificent Palacio Real, the Royal Palace, royal family -they live on the outskirts of Madrid- ceremonies and other important events. The palace we very much recommend the visit. The palace with ornate facades and elaborate interiors that Palace is an opportunity to witness a piece of to marvel at the beauty and grandeur of this tickets in advance to jump the slow queues. The the north by two beautiful gardens, the expense de Sabatini. Access to both gardens is free, so do highlight of our tour around Habsburg Madrid is the Plaza de Oriente, the Eastern Square, which is on the east side of the Royal Palace, hence tranquility. Directly opposite the Royal Palace, Royal Theater. As you will see on the map, Madrid are in close proximity to each them on foot. The most convenient metro Plaza de Cibeles is one of the most extraordinary squares in for locals, making it a great place to experience of the square there is a marble sculptural fountain, the Fuente de Cibeles, one of the most city. The most important building in the square is Telecomunicaciones and today as CentroCentro. The 1909 to be the headquarters of the Spanish Post the Madrid city council, which until then had mentioned earlier when we toured the Madrid of the Hall officials work, CentroCentro has more with free access to them. It is well worth going terrace, from where you can enjoy beautiful views Plaza de Cibeles, as well as other highlights of on the eighth floor of the building's central every half hour and the ticket office is a the visit is paid, although it is not very square, including the Bank of Spain, the Palacio beautiful examples of Spanish architecture. The Puerta del Sol is one of the most famous and in Spain. It is a perfect place for your first hub of activity, hosting street performers, houses several iconic buildings and monuments, the most important kings in Spanish history. And of the bear and the madrono tree, known as the seat of Madrid's local government. On top of the the main reference point for the New Year's by shopping and dining options, making it a great also a very important transport hub, with a major The Parque del Buen Retiro, or simply Parque del a rich history dating back to the 16th century. the 19th century, when it became a public park. monuments, offering a peaceful escape from the exhibitions such as concerts, art shows and both for locals and tourists. It is such a joy dedicate half a day to it. If you visit the Parque of Madrid, the Puerta de Alcala. It is a monumental in 1778 and it is just a few meters away from plan on reaching the Retiro park by metro, the most Madrid is considered a world museum capital due museums. The Paseo del Arte, or Art Walk, is several of the city's most important museums and the Prado Museum, the Reina Sofia Museum, the cultural center, among others. It is easily station. The Paseo del Arte offers visitors finest collections of European and Spanish as Velazquez, Goya, El Greco or Picasso. The route is a museum to another provides a unique cultural cities. The Paseo del Arte was recently included think for a minute the splendid collection of National Archaeological Museum to the largely hidden gems, there is one museum for everyone, video number 82, where we present 20 outstanding Calle Gran Via is one of the most famous avenues in Madrid. You should visit it due to its cultural significance and architectural beauty, as well as its thriving famous for its impressive architecture, which Art Nouveau, Art Deco, and Neoclassicism. Many of architectural landmarks and they reflect the early 20th century. The Gran Via is also venues, making it an important center for the popular location for locals and tourists who and nightlife. Some people call it Madrid's of the most famous shopping streets in Madrid, and international brands. It's a popular and dining experiences. The Gran Via begins at or the other way around. If you'd like to see the viewpoints: the one at the top of the Circulo de Bellas Artes, the one on the Gourmet Experience floor at El Corte Ingles, and the rooftop terrace three places we've just mentioned, and many others to see Madrid from above, check them out if seeing Close to the Plaza de Espana end of the Gran Via Templo de Debod, the Temple of Debod. It can be seen in Spain. It was originally built 15 to the first waterfall of the Nile, but in 1960, by the Aswan construction project forced trying to preserve the rich historical legacy to save their Abu Simbel complex in 1960, the to Spain. The temple is free to visit but within the opening hours. The temple is located back, with beautiful views of the south of Madrid. cathedral, and in the lower part of the city the an especially popular spot at the end of the day Chueca and Malasana are two traditional neighborhoods in traditional tourist circuits of the city, which where you will find the most alternative and the city's gay district, but also because it's from a wide variety of backgrounds. Malasana counter-cultural revolution that followed its heyday in the 1980s, with lots of music, Today Malasana is a more bourgeois district that are full of pop art, local and international On a Sunday morning nothing is more &quot;madrileno&quot;-like than a visit to El Rastro. El Rastro is the most famous outdoor flea market in Madrid. It is experiences and historical significance. and locals alike, offering a wide range of handmade crafts and local products, as well other flea markets across the world. El Rastro and quite a few side streets as well. Metro La market. Two insider tips. If you are planning on on Sundays, try to arrive before 11am if you particular attention to pickpockets. The Rastro is Madrid Rio is an extenso linear part bordering the most of its extension, on top of the M-30 ring Rio is filled with interesting places. Such as an exciting cultural center full of activity; or the Palacio de Cristal de Arganzuela, the Arganzuela Crystal Palace, with its greenhouses, which are free to visit. The Pasarela de Arganzuela is a unique architectural structure that features a curved design and connects the modern pieces of infrastructure in Madrid. Puente century. And on its final stretch the park runs the very instagrammable Madrid sign is. If you walk, even more so if you are traveling with kids, could begin your walk at Legazpi metro station Madrid Rio. And with Madrid Rio, which is one of the must-see attractions you shouldn't miss during what is the best time of the year to visit Madrid? should I look for accommodation? What would be now on the screen a video we recorded where we a visit to Spain's capital will need to ask