Sister Ruohan, you are so considerate. Brother Zhao likes to eat fish You just pick out the fish bones for him every time. Almost everyone knows I love Zhao Jingyi so much Sister Ruohan You are really crazy about Zhao Ge Love him so much that he stays around him all day Love until you lose your dignity and yourself Become everyone's A silk-spinning flower that grew only to cling to him But Sister Ruohan, you have finally seen the light at the end of the tunnel. Brother Zhao booked such a restaurant today Just to commemorate your 7th anniversary Maybe he will propose to you today. right But sister Ruohan, aren't you allergic to seafood? Why did Brother Zhao book this restaurant? fine I'm satisfied that he can remember me. Mr. Zhao Why did you come just now? Today is your and Sister Ruohan's seventh anniversary Zhou Chengge Song Lige Tzuyu's sister haven't seen you for a long time After 7 years, I'm finally back Brother Jingyi Thank you for preparing a welcoming banquet for me. I also booked my favorite seafood restaurant I am very happy Sister Ruohan Zhao Ge today Isn't it your 7th anniversary with Sister Ruohan? Have you forgotten? Anniversary? What's the deal with celebrating together? But Brother Zhao Sister Ruohan doesn't eat seafood Brother Jingyi The fish on your plate has no bones I want to eat your You like to eat Then give it to you Brother Zhao, that was picked specially for you by Sister Ruohan. So what? Don't you love picking fish bones? Since Tzuyu likes to eat Then you pick on her. Thank you, Sister Ruohan. Liang Ruohan Even if Brother Jingyi loved you so much, so what? now You are just a toy that has been played with. I'm going to the bathroom. Brother Zhao, I think Sister Ruohan seems really angry Aren't you afraid that she will break up with you? Breaking up is impossible She can't leave me As for being angry She's angry, so be it. Anyway, she doesn't need to be comforted every time she gets angry. She will roll back obediently. Come, drink So ugly, Liang Ruohan You live a shitty life Old Man If you don't pay the protection fee this month Just give me your daughter to pay off the debt. ah Dad, your legs Don't worry, Hanhan I'll take my uncle to the hospital now. Young man My legs are not convenient It's hard for you to carry me up and down on your back. Uncle, it's okay. Just treat me like your own son. Good boy But I'm worried that they will cause trouble for Hanhan again. Uncle, don't worry. They dare not bully Hanhan when I am here I will protect you all this time. At that time, he carried my dad back and forth to the cafeteria I decided to give him 10 chances. He won't know that today is the last time Oh dear Let's go Oh hahaha Brother This is my first kiss What to see Just playing games If you don't like it, get out. Brother Zhao passed Liang Ruohan Today, if you dare to walk out of this door We'll break up. good Let's break up I took a taxi and left first But wait Before you go Pick out the fish bones from Tzuyu's bowl I allow you to continue to be my friend. No need, I don't lack friends Hey Brother Zhao I think Sister Ruohan seems really angry Anyone can leave Zhao Ge But Sister Ruohan will definitely not come I bet for three days He will definitely come back in three days. Come on, three days, three hours at most Three seconds He'll open the door in three seconds. Brother Zhao really has Sister Ruohan under his control snort 321 Hey Brother Zhao You lose, drink. Hey, drink, drink He still has some backbone. He won't drive away with the Maybach you gave him, will he? impossible I bought that Maybach with my first pot of gold. If he Sell him It also proves that our seven-year relationship has completely ended. Come, come, celebrate Congratulations to you, Brother Zhao I finally got rid of this burden today. Come come come drink drink drink Cheers Cheers Hello Boss I want to sell my car Liang Ruohan, where is my honey water? Young Master, Miss Liang didn't come back last night. Not back yet OK This time I really have guts Let's see how long he can hold out. Here it comes Zhao Ge Didn't we agree to play golf today? How to dress like this? Wrinkled And this tie is so ugly. What happened to Uncle Wang? Master, I don't know your itinerary. In the past, Miss Liang would take care of it according to your schedule. Your attire Comes with ironing Forget it, my stomach is upset Prepare a hangover soup for me Master, you said Is this the hangover soup that Miss Liang often makes? That soup takes more than 5 hours to cook. I'm afraid it's too late now. Miss Hum Liang How can Miss Liang be so big as the Zhao family? Liang Ruohan won't do it if she leaves. Well You really went too far yesterday. Or maybe I should apologize on WeChat. What's the apology? I just wave my hand He will come back Master, when Miss Liang left yesterday And took away all the documents Hum, give him face. Who does he think he is? Still pretending in front of me This kind of woman shouldn't be treated well by him Even if he tries his best to beg me I won't even look at him. Hey, it seems that Sister Ruohan is serious this time Absolutely not He Liang Ruohan is a dog in front of me I just wave my hand He will roll over here obediently Why don't you believe it? Liao Ruohan, come back quickly I'll give you one last chance to apologize to me. Watch him, he will reply in seconds. Brother Zhao admitted his mistake, right? Ruohan blocked you Master, Chuan Ang just called and said The limited edition Maybach you gave to Miss Liang Sold by Miss Liang have to The cars are sold It's impossible to see you two this time. Break up if you want He Liang Ruohan It's just a canary I raised. I see him leaving me Who will feed him? Ms. Liang, your car is a super limited edition Great collection value And it's almost brand new The price may not be able to be sold in a short time. The price doesn't matter Just sell it. Ms. Liang, this is 10 million. Thanks This is also considered as achieving financial freedom. The next awards to be announced are National Most Influential Lawyer Award He became a legal giant at the age of 16 Mr. Fu's apprentice Jump three levels Congratulations to Mr. Xie Yichuan Won the National Most Influential Lawyer Award Lawyer Xie You are the youngest winner of this award. Reached the top of the world Excuse me Can you tell us more about your thoughts? Lawyer Xie heard that the United States wanted to poach you The 300 million yuan contract prepared Would you agree? Ruohan Your original dream was to help the lower class people Now I have done it You stay by his side Do you remember your dream? You are back Liang Ruohan I spent 5 years Travel across the country Helped countless people But I still can't forget you Junior Sister Are you going back to the Zhao family? Brother, I've broken up. I've thought it through I will start over again later Congratulations. Have you decided what you want to do in the future? I still want to be a lawyer. I just didn't know it was wasted for 7 years. Is there any law firm willing to accept me? Junior sister, I am the first law firm in Yuncheng Partner status of Dingsong Law Firm Formal invitation to you I'm still keeping your office for you. Senior Since Liang Ruohan has abandoned love Freedom again Then start over A makeover My favorite thing to do is kiss your tattoo You have to keep it for me forever This beautiful mark is the proof that you love me Hello, please help me remove this tattoo You suffered a lot when you tattooed him. Ms. Han Tattooing on the collarbone is painful are you sure Yes, Han Han, are you sure? I'm not afraid of how much pain you cause Miss Miao Tattoo removal is more painful than tattooing are you sure Make sure to wash it I have endured so much suffering Start now I won't allow myself to suffer from love anymore Wow, isn't this Lee Yool? So beautiful I'm back from America. Yes, Li Lu is not only good-looking And the business ability is also very strong As soon as I arrived at the institute, I won several difficult cases. She is simply the new Queen of Law I think she will be able to move into this office soon. This office This luxurious office has been idle for several years. To the lawyer with the highest status in the Yuncheng legal circle To be able to sit in this office Yesterday the director said There is something important to announce today It seems that this office belongs to me. Wow, this is the Queen of Law Liang Luhan's temperament is absolutely amazing Yes, this aura is just like Just like Liang Lu Liang Ruohan Why are you here? I'm here to work You don't even look in the mirror at work. See what kind of person you are. A housewife who knows nothing Dare to come to work in a law firm The temperament of a housewife is not like that of a yellow-faced woman I see You saw that Brother Jinyi liked me So I want to imitate the ugly woman and dress up as a lawyer You wouldn't think so. Brother Jinyi will come back to you. I won't follow your example and look for a man in the garbage dump You security guards, throw this woman out right now. Wow, even Director Xie is here today. Looks like this law firm is going to change. How is Director Xie? Junior sister, this office is well maintained, right? I didn't expect so many years had passed. This office is still the same as before. Of course You are the most talented lawyer in our Yuncheng. Except You No one is qualified to move into this office. We carefully maintain him Just waiting for the day you return How is it possible? This woman used to be a lawyer Or tomorrow's lawyer? Thanks Director Xie You guys are not working soon. I'll take you to see Mr. Fu. What about a genius lawyer? Now he Just a canary that has been kept in captivity for 7 years The law has changed. This office will be mine sooner or later Liang Ruohan, why are you here? How come she's different from before? Ah, Brother Qiuyi I feel dizzy Liang Ruohan, stop right there Public places Please respect yourself Liang Ruohan Are you so impatient? I know you're dressed like this today. To attract my attention But you find such a little country bumpkin to accompany you Isn't that too low-class? snort How about this? You apologize to me I will allow you to go home today. Zhao Jingyi, we have broken up Please stop being so sentimental. I'm being sentimental OK But you listen to me. I am Zhao Jingyi's woman Even if I'm done playing, throw it in the trash It's not like other men can get involved with him if they want. Please be careful with your words Otherwise you will receive a court summons tomorrow. Liang Ruohan Are you a cos lawyer? Uniform temptation I like Enough Zhao Jingyi I don't have time to argue with you, let's go. Liang Ruohan, have you had enough of the trouble? I promised to let you go home. Don't be ungrateful I know you don't like me being with other women. Is he making such a fuss? We have been together for so many years This isn't the first time This isn't the first time. It's the tenth time The tenth time What tenth time? Seven years ago, you carried my dad on your back 10 times. At that time, I made up my mind I'll give you ten chances. From the first time three years ago to the day before yesterday Ten chances have been exhausted So I left you From the day I left you There's no chance for the two of us My life has turned over. Goodbye Zhao Jingyi I heard you coughing last night. Drink some Tremella soup to moisten your throat Did Liang Ruohan return to the law firm this year? Why You've delayed retirement for seven years. Can I really wait for him? My life Three regrets It is a pity that the current judicial system is not perfect. It is difficult to determine whether a wrongful conviction is true or false. The second regret is that I have no children The third regret is Liang Ruohan Your lawyer circle How many years? Only then can a lawyer like Liang Ruohan appear Genius didn't expect He actually did it for a man I gave up the opportunity to become a first-class lawyer. Why Master, look who's here Liang Ruohan Master I'm not your master. You go out I don't want to see you master I was wrong I failed your expectations sorry 7 years For you, I have been on the front line I'm almost 70 Still in lawsuit Just want to before I close Train you to be my successor Let our country have one more qualified judicial talent I can close my eyes I know I know all master Even if you no longer recognize me as your disciple You will always be my most respected teacher. Start now I will start over Try your best Until I become your apprentice Get up There's still time There's still time One Zen You take him to talk about the past two years of music It's the master Later I will rent out all the files of our law firm in the past two years. Give it to you Okay You may be having a hard time during this period. It doesn't matter since I decided to be a lawyer again. Then I will definitely try my best Let's go Liang Ruofan, why are you here? I'm sorry, brother. The breakup wasn't clean enough Sorry to make you laugh Sorry I don't think you're funny. Not only is it not funny I still think you were so brilliant just now Just like the first time I saw you Liang Ruohan Zhou Shao's father is the school director You have to be stubborn again Then you can just wait to be kicked out of school with him. Senior Forget it. We can't beat him. Don't be afraid I will seek justice for you. What about Mr. Xiao's son? The Emperor Breaks the Law Same crime as common people Either apologize and pay the full medical expenses Or just follow me to the police station Bitch Police officers from Lianyu class I'm afraid of you snort You want me to apologize to you? Impossible to go Article 234 of the Criminal Law Intentional bodily harm to others Imprisonment of not more than three years The surname Zhou I have the right to suspect you of intentionally causing bodily harm. Don't think you are great just because you can memorize a few laws and regulations You're just a student Zhou Shao's slave seems to be a real lawyer I heard that he has been admitted to the law firm as an exception. I think it's better to spend money to avoid disaster. This is medical expenses. I'll give you a reward Apologize you Sorry, school girl Thank you, Senior From that day on My sight It is no longer just about black and white laws and regulations. But with brilliant brilliance Ah, Junior Sister I heard you haven't found a house yet. Why don't you move to my place first? Move to your place Oh, sorry. I mean move to my neighborhood. My friend happens to have a house over there Urgent rental Do you want to go and have a look? Is that place far from the hotel? Not far Right behind the hotel 5 minutes walk Great commuting Great, let's go check it out now. Ms. Liang This house is rented out for the first time Please see if you like it first We can discuss the price later. good Wow I know this vase. Very expensive This is a bit exaggerated. Junior sister, this set only costs 800 yuan 800 True or false Ms. Liang It may sound like a show of wealth. I really don't lack money. I've always liked this house. I just want to find her someone who will love her well. tenant You are Xie Lu's junior sister. So the friendship price is 800 Thank you so much. I like this house very much Don't worry, I will take good care of her. good Are you okay? 80,000 yuan a month in rent You rent 800 He is indeed the richest man in Yuncheng Xie Family Young Master What is the way to urge people? But if you reveal your identity A small family like the Zhao family is not even worthy of carrying your shoes. My junior sister You don't understand. You should just go and do your own thing first. Okay. My departure won't hinder your fellow brothers and sisters from keeping in touch with each other. Junior Sister You take the key first. Come see me when you're done If you have something to do, go back first good Thank you, brother You go and do your work first Don't mind me Um The elevator is here Um You live opposite My new neighbor Please take care of me in the future Uncle Wang, I'm feeding you medicine. I checked and found that it was always prepared by Miss Liang. Did you find it? Master I haven't found it yet you Forget it, it's really five or six maple forests in the night rain How come I've never been so unlucky before? I used to feel uncomfortable. Silly can be silly Uncle Wang, lend me your phone. hurry up Good, good, Master Uncle Huang, what's the matter? Hello Hanhan I have a stomachache Why are you looking for me when you have a stomachache? I'm not a doctor. Master, you are in so much pain. Should I take you to the hospital? roll ah Master, Master, Master lady The doctor has seen It is acute gastritis The young master has taken the medicine and gone to sleep. Liang Ruohan is a waste What about others who take care of my son like this? Madam, Miss Liang, broke up with the young master But it depends on serving people The little man How dare you do that to my son? If this kind of woman is not trained, she will be obedient. I won't listen He won't teach me. Hello, Liang Ruohan I command you Get back here within three minutes and serve my son Liang Ruohan I order you Get back here within three minutes and serve my son Ms. Lin, please don't call me anymore. I have broken up with your son. His affairs have nothing to do with me. Godmother Jingyi's brother Are you feeling better? Tzuyu, I heard Xiaoyi broke up with that bitch. Good points I allowed this bitch to be with Xiaoyi before But he seems to be very caring I just treat him as a free babysitter. Now you are back Xiao Yi in the future I'll leave it to you. I'm leaving first You have to take good care of Xiao Yi. Don't worry, godmother. I will take good care of Brother Jingyi from now on. Hanhanhanhan Jinye wake up I can't live without you Jinye Hanhanhan Han Why is it you? Brother Jingyu What You Need I'll get it for you Where is Liang Ruohan? Did you go get lunch with me? Just now, Madam Call Ms. Liang Let him come right over. I'd better wait for the breakfast that Liang Ruohan prepares for me. After all, she dared not disobey my mother. Her biggest wish is to marry into my Zhao family Miss Liang blocked my wife Zhao Ge I remember the last time you were hospitalized was three years ago. That time you drank too much at a social gathering and got gastric bleeding If Sister Han is very anxious I took care of you day and night for a month. Jingye, I made millet porridge for you You drink some Go away, I don't want to see you. Let's break up Let's break up I won't leave, don't chase me away I know you are having financing problems. Afraid of dragging me down I have 180,000 here I'm giving you all my savings. don't want How can I, Zhao Jingyi, ask for my daughter's money? And I know This money is the money you gave to your father. Jingyi, it's okay. I trust you I believe you can get out of this mess. Achieving Success Hanhan I don't deserve you to be so nice to me. Tonight you broke up with your family for me I keep all these in mind As long as you don't give up on me I won't give up on you Liang Ruohan I, Zhao Jingyi, will never submit to you Song Li didn't come this time Brother Jinyi It's okay. I'll take care of you. roll Song Li, lend me your phone. hurry up Brother Zhao, please speak well Hello Yang Ruohan Aren't you going home yet? Zhao Jingyi, you should know We broke up And that's not my home. You dare There's more OK You want to play ruthless with me? Your lawyer qualifications and baby certificates If you don't come back I set it all on fire Hey, Master, you're not well yet. Liang Ruohan, you finally came back Why is Zhao Jingyi's car here? Haha, I know you can't bear it. So I bought him back. I don't have time to talk nonsense with you Give me the stuff Liang Ruohan, you broke up with me You also sold the luxury car I gave you. Changed for 10 million It turns out that you, Liang Ruohan, also love Qian Liang so much You said it earlier Letting go 10 million to buy you 7 years Then you continue to stay with me. These And these One hundred million times ten There are 10 more cars Is it enough to buy you another 7 years? Zhao Jinyi you bastard It was you who begged me to give up the law firm. Accompany you to start from scratch I'm the one who helps you with the company's legal affairs I'm the one who helps you communicate with your partners about equity I was just taking back what was mine. yes You helped me when I started my business. But what can I do? Liang Ruohan, you are already 26 You've been wasting seven years by my side You now Family background that power background You have nothing Leave me What can you do? Let me go, we've broken up. separate Liang Ruohan You are my appendage. Without my permission You are not eligible Let me go Stop pretending Don't you just like me touching you like this? ah Zhao Jinyi, let me go Why did you take so long? Zhao Xinyi, are you crazy? Didn't I tell you? Be careful when doing it Let me go, what are you going to do? Liu Ruohan, why are you pretending to be a chaste girl in front of me? All over your body From the inside out I haven't touched any place ah Zhao Jinyi you bastard Good fight hahahaha You know I'm tired of you being still. Like a dead fish It seems that you have learned a lot of new moves in the past two days. Come on, show it. Maybe I'll forgive you. Let me go Are you okay? Who the fuck are you? I play with my own woman What's your business? Liao Ruohan This can't be the poor intern you're looking for, right? Can he satisfy you? I'm asking you a fucking question. Does he know you as well as I do? Does he know when you are most comfortable? ah Zhao Jinyi You really disgust me. Hanhan You go back first I'll handle the rest. I threw this punch for Liang Ruohan How dare you hit me? This punch I want to beat you up, you scumbag. Yang Ruohan is a person It's not something you can just wave away. If you don't respect people I'll teach you Liu Ruohan You're the only one who can find a man, right? I have to have you Come on, who of you can accompany me tonight? Whose are these? Ha ha ha ha Mr. Zhao, I want to toast you. What's the point of drinking like this? Come and have some fun with me How about drinking a cup of wine? Hey Mr. Zhao us Brother Zhao is always out looking for girls Relax how Still thinking about your sister Ruohan who is as chaste as a virgin Is she worthy? Zhao Ge Who are you? Get out of here! You guys go out first Brother Jinyi Brother Qingyi, why are you pushing me? It's too late. I'll find someone to take you back. Brother Qingyi, I can also drink with you Walk Away The elder brother stole the duck from his mouth and let it fly away Don't want to be responsible Too much trouble Why did you pursue Sister Ruohan for so long? Liang Ruohan He is different He can only be mine Ahhh Ahhhh Oh, don't come over. I knew you wouldn't be able to sleep tonight. Brother, you came at the right time. I have a few cases I want to ask you. This is the case Regarding property division and child custody Ruohan If you feel really bad, just cry. You don't need to start a family in front of me Mr. Fu You are here I heard you won the case against the richest man in Jiangcheng. Law firms across the country are vying to have you as a consultant. Excuse me, please get out of the way. Liang Ruohan is my guest Mr. Fu My goddaughter Lin Ziyu is much better than him Besides, our Zhao family is one of the three great families in Jiangcheng. As long as you choose my daughter Be your last disciple I will do my best to handle all the cases in Yuncheng for you. My disciples require two points: ability and character I have this ability in Jiangcheng Green World I haven't heard of Miss Lin's name yet. As for character? Haha, I saw it with my own eyes. Hanhan let's go Um Let me come, Master Mo Liang Ruohan, this poor guy How can I be worthy of Mr. Fu's reception? She must be the nanny hired by Mr. Fu. I just said it Even if he is really capable He has been my son's nanny for so many years. I'm afraid this is the only way to serve others. Yes, two days later Our company will hold Silver City Green Arrow Elite Selection Competition This must be Mr. Fu's choice of disciple. When I became Mr. Fu's last disciple Look how stubborn he is. I Congratulations to my future daughter-in-law for getting the second place in the country Look, this is the Boshawana diamond. There are only 100 in the world 2 million per piece Mom took this photo for you. When you marry Jingyi, have someone make a ring for you Thank you, godmother Ruohan, this is a gift for you. Congratulations Won first place in the exam Missing the second place A full 80 points This is the biggest score difference in history. There are diamonds on it. Looks expensive. There are so many more I can't collect What does 99 mean? Long, long time Not much money Half a month's salary Half a month My brother's salary for half a month must be tens of thousands. Too expensive In fact, it is our Xie Group's half-month profit. Ruohan, this is a gift to celebrate your rebirth. You must accept it In my heart You are like a diamond The light is just blocked by diamonds But just take this bag off No one shines brighter than you Thank you, brother. OK, I'll pick you up right away. I see The master has arrived If Lawyer Han has an urgent matter I have to go over there. I'm sorry I can't accompany you It's ok, brother. I'll just go pick up the master myself. You go and do your thing. Liu Ruohan Liang Ruohan Who asked you to come here? Why are you everywhere? Follow me Tracked here. It's really unlucky Godmother, he must have failed the exam. It's not shameful for Ruohan to come over and eat for free Aren't you a babysitter? Anyway, we ordered a lot of dishes today. If you can't finish it, you can pack some leftovers to take home. Isn't this another meal left over? Leave my son I just realized that the world outside is not easy. Today's housewives are always clamoring for freedom To create your own business Don't even check if you have the ability to do this. Still thinking about competing with Tzuyu for Mr. Immortality The number of closed disciples Do you really think you are a dish? Hanhan, you are going to be Mr. Fu Mr.'s last disciple? What's your business? Hanhan, I know You do all this to get my approval. But you don't have to worry Even if you are not Mr. Fu's official disciple I don't care As long as you apologize to me I will let bygones be bygones We can still go back to the past I wonder who dares to ask him to go back to the past. Isn't this a legend in the legal world? Fu Xuesheng, Mr. Fu? Mr. Fu I got the second place in the country this time. Did you come here specially to congratulate me? Who are you He's the one I'm looking for. He ranked first in this exam. The first place is the one who is 80 points higher than Tzuyu Is this the national bar exam? That's right You have been serving my son for the past seven years. How did you do so well in the exam? Han Han, don't you only have a junior lawyer qualification certificate? Why is it so powerful all of a sudden? He's always been pretty good. It's because you dragged him down for 7 years. otherwise He has long been a prominent figure in Jiangcheng's legal community. Ha ha I am Zhao Jingyi You never knew me You never recognized yourself The reason why the bird does not leave the cage Not because the cage is unbreakable It's because he was willing to give up the outside world. Stay Inside But now I don't want to From now on The sky is high and the sea is vast outside Let you fly Let us celebrate your new life Teacher please Mr. Fu As expected, Sister Ruohan The first one is the first I have broken up with Liang Ruohan You don't have to praise her for my sake. Zhao Ge In fact, I think Sister Ruohan is really amazing I had a friend before Please ask me to find someone to help him file a lawsuit This lawsuit is quite difficult to win. Many lawyers are afraid to take Finally, Sister Ruohan helped me solve it The Liang Ruohan you mentioned And the Liang Ruohan who waits for me at home every day Is it really a person? Liang Ruohan is just a poor guy who only knows how to study hard The real lawsuit He must be better than me Hanhan I miss you so much roll I won't touch anyone except Hanhan This is that bitch's stuff. You go change it As long as you two cook the rice See how he regrets it. Jing Ye It's me, not Hanhan It's me. I'm back. Do you want me I know you can't leave me Are you annoying? What do you want to do? Why are you in my bed? Brother Qingyun You got drunk last night I'll take you back You're holding me tightly I said no You have to be impossible How could I touch another woman? This is my first time You don't want to take responsibility, do you? He dares I know what you are thinking But you did this to Tzuyu You have to give him an explanation. Otherwise I can't forgive you I didn't say I'm not responsible. Then choose a time for you two to get engaged. I'm talking to you, do you hear me? You guys are welcome Tzuyu's godmother will take you to meet the examiner of this retest That is Mr. Fu's favorite student. As long as he can help you will definitely surpass Liang Ruohan Became Mr. Fu's last disciple Thank you, godmother Why is it you? Hello, Mr. Xie This is my goddaughter Lin Ziyu No gifts. How did he become Mr. Fu's disciple? How could Yang Ruohan be you? You are so shameless To pass the retest You actually moved to the opposite side of the examiner's house. Liang Ruohan, didn't you hear me? Stop here. Liang Ruohan, let's wait and see Investigate the relationship between Liang Ruohan and Xie Yuchen immediately Liang Ruohan, even if you win first place, so what? Used these I want you to be the green world of Yuncheng A bitch that everyone despises Sorry, Ms. Liang Before the matter is investigated You can't go in An intern In order to become Mr. Fu's last disciple He slept with all his fellow students Mr. Fu, who is nearly 70 years old, could not escape the clutches of the devil He is the one the news is talking about. Do you think it's him? That's the legal Daji Go away, bad luck Go quickly Hanhan I believe you were wronged. You're not that stupid Of course I Hanhan, as long as you are willing to apologize to me I'll help you with this. I don't need your help Hanhan, this kind of public opinion will completely destroy you You're not doing this for my own good To satisfy his vanity as a savior You want me to have trouble Then I'll cry and wait for you to save me So you can use it as a handle Then pulled me into the abyss Liang Ruohan will definitely regret it You are a worn out shoe. No man is willing to take over Why Was that woman just now the Green Saint Daji? Yes, it's her. Keep talking nonsense. I ripped your mouth The people involved didn't say anything. What can you pick on as a dog? you Hello Immediately send someone to remove Liang Ruohan's hot search Mr. Zhao's hot search has been suppressed I heard that it was the factory owned by the eldest son of the Xie family, the richest man in Yuncheng. The identity of the eldest son of the Xie family is extremely mysterious Never showed up outside How could he help Liang Ruohan Check it for me right now yes Liang Ruohan I know you can't do without a man Bro, you're really quick. The trending search was suppressed so quickly It's not me I just added some traffic to the new trending search New Trending Search Liang Ruohan, an intern at Dingsong Law Firm During the list test Dispute your own score Request for full public examination process The announcement is as follows Well said Thank you, brother. It's your turn. Authenticated by an authentication agency The gems I bought When it was transferred, it was identified as a fake by the same agency. Should the institution make compensation? This is too difficult. Yes, this lawyer who doesn't have 5 years of work experience I can't tell He's just an intern. Aren't you deliberately making things difficult for me? The difficulty of this case lies in The specificity of the item involved It is difficult to be like other products Have a clear value system and standards Xie Yichen, partner of Dingfeng Law Firm Lawyer Xie Actively expose candidate Lin Ziyu's bribery The results of candidate Lin Ziyu are now declared invalid. He was the one spreading rumors before. How can such a person with bad conduct be a lawyer? I heard that this person is Mr. Zhao's godsister. This Zhao family is really disgusting No matter how much it costs Remove the trending search for me The official media of the old lady has forwarded it Too late It's all Liang Ruohan's fault Otherwise, I would be Mr. Bu Lao's last disciple. What kind of vision does Xie Yuchen have? Godmother, what should we do now? This is He He's diary. August 25, 2017 Today is Jinyi's birthday There is a big gap between us But he pursued me for three years I decided to agree to be his girlfriend I have worked 5 jobs this year Earned a total of 68,000 yuan I spent 40,000 yuan on my father's treatment. The remaining 28,000 yuan was used to buy Jingyi a birthday gift Silly This is your first birthday gift to me. I will definitely carry it with me every day Just like you are by my side every day good August 25, 2021 today It's my fifth birthday since Jingyi and I got together. Working as a legal consultant in my spare time Income 120,000 I borrowed 90,000 yuan from my father The watch I gave Jingyi last time is old Change him one Jinye, I saw your watch is old. This is for you I've already changed the one you gave me Liang Ruohan A watch is a man's face My current identity You let me take this watch out Did he throw you away on purpose? It turns out that in a place I didn't see He did so much for me. Give you a day Please find Liang Ruohan for me yes Come in Why are you still working? no way I owe too much in these years. I finally finished the exam and I don't want to think about these things anymore Let me take you out for a walk Where are you going? This is too big. Book me the earliest flight to Huaxi Manor Hello Mr. Zhao How about the place I picked? It's not bad, right? big Have fun, everyone. Thank you, brother I thought You just took me to the farm resort for some fun I didn't expect to run so far. Surprise, I won't say more. Let's check out the room first. girl You are right. This is indeed my eldest master's resort Ha ha I know you're still sad that I ignored you before I came here today to apologize to you. Should you forgive me? Brother Jie, you are so bad. You didn't even tell me you took me on vacation. Zhao Jingyi, you are really interesting I've never seen a man apologize. He came with another woman. No haha Listen to me explain I don't have the time to listen to your explanation. Brother, didn't you just say you would take me for a walk? Good going Who asked you to come? Assistant Chen said you want to come to the manor alone I thought it wouldn't be fun for you to be alone. So I booked a ticket to accompany you opinionated Very comfortable It's nice to breathe fresh air and see the scenery occasionally. Sister, as long as you like it Hello handsome tomorrow Do you want to bring your girlfriend to our forest party? We are selecting Huaxi Manor's annual most beautiful flower fairy event Oh, sorry. I didn't mean it. We will definitely attend OK, thanks I'm sorry, brother. I shouldn't have dragged you into this drama. You don't have to apologize I'm not acting. I'm a little tired I'm going back to my room first. Hanhan I don't want to be your senior. I want to be your boyfriend Liang Ruohan I like you I You don't need to be stressed I'm not here to ask you for answers. I just want to tell you Although you left the Zhao family But you don't have to worry I will always be with you You can do whatever you want Whatever happens I'll give you a fight Welcome to our forest party Who can get the most sunflowers today? Who is our Huaxi Manor? The most beautiful flower fairy of the year Now, please invite all the beauties present to draw lots. Cut into this appearance and still want to be a flower fairy After the game starts Please let us draw the number card beautiful lady Talent show on stage Talent Show I'd like to see How can a yellow-faced woman have such talent? Brother Jinyi I'll make a phone call first. Oh, Sister Ruohan Why are you here? You're not going to join that colored There is a flower fairy competition This game is vulgar and earthy But Miss Lin is so noble you Next, let us invite beauty number one to come on stage to show Oops, I'm sorry. Next, let us invite beauty No. 1 to come on stage to show Ruohan, aren't you number 1? It's your turn. Go quickly. Hanhan Your skirt is torn. How to perform? How about we give up the game? I told them My business has nothing to do with you. Is beauty number 1 here? Beauty No. 1 is here to show you What's going on? No. 1 will not run away again that is Why isn't he on the field yet? Why sign up if you don't have any talent? What a waste of time I'll see how you end up. Hanhan, what are you doing? Sorry, No. 1 Player 1 gives up Sorry everyone I came up late I'm ready Okay, now let's welcome contestant number 1. Bring us a talent show let me gold Wow, so beautiful One more song So beautiful, she is just like a flower fairy Liang Ruohan, I won't let you be proud for too long. Please the audience Choose the most beautiful flower fairy in the Flower Fairy Manor for us Thank you thank you thank you Thanks Thank you and congratulations to contestant No. 1 Become the most beautiful flower fairy in our Huaxi Manor Thank you. Thank you. Is Yang Ruohan ready? I prepared these 100 thumbtacks especially for you. Wait until you lose this foxy face I wonder who will love you Thanks ah Ahhhhh Don't worry, Hanhan I will protect you Hanhan, are you okay? It's ok, let's go. Brother Xingyi You are injured Ling Ruohan, did you hear that? I'm bleeding Ling Ruohan, you are not allowed to leave Zhang Jingyi, we can't go back anymore Brother I know you still have Sister Ruohan in your heart But you can't ignore your own safety. What did you say So I still love Liang Ruohan? Your wound You take a rest first I have urgent business. Junior sister, I didn't expect you to dance so beautifully Thanks Liang Ruohan, I have something to tell you I don't want to hear Hanhan Did you know When you were almost injured just now I just woke up The one I love is you I have a lot to tell you. Let's go in and talk, okay? If you have anything shameful to say, just say it here. OK Han Han Sorry, I know. I have done many bad things to you before. As for Tzuyu I always treated her as my sister. She was the one who seduced me that time I will break up with her later. You believe me I will only love you Hanhan Are we getting along well? The words you said Does Lin Ziyu know? Zhao Jinyi, you are so disgusting I'll say it one last time You and I have no chance I won't forgive you I won't be with you anymore Liang Ruohan, I apologized to you. What else do you want? She's just my sister. Besides, I I promised you to break up with her. Have you forgotten When your family was bullied by gangsters Who saved you? I want to be with you I lost contact with my family. Have you forgotten all these? I haven't forgotten but the past 7 years I've already cleaned these up. I don't owe you anything Put away your moral kidnapping I don't buy into this anymore. Hanhan You have changed How did you become so heartless? I see Have you hooked up with this man? That's why you are so cruel to me. I have nothing to say Please move aside We're taking a break. The Taker Do you really like to wear other people's worn-out shoes? Did You Know All his first times were for me. Every part of him I, Zhao Jingyi, have already marked it. If you don't believe me, look Did Zhao Jingyi see it clearly? I'm no longer the person I used to be. I will only love you Liang Ruohan Impossible, this is a tattoo Han Han specially made for me Zhao Jingyi only has the most useless men Only then will I feel that when my woman leaves me Because of another man Because they look awesome. In fact, he is just a giant baby with low self-esteem and cowardice. No impossible You still can't learn to respect women But you'll soon pay the price. Who are you? You dare to teach me a lesson? We are going back to the room to rest. Please I'm sorry, brother. I'm making fun of you again. Junior Sister, I just feel sorry for you Liu Ruohe Do you want to get rid of him completely? What should I do? You think clearly You're going to bed with this man. I will never marry you in my life The sound Liu Ruohan, get out of here! I won't wear it if I'm with another man Sorry Hanhan Sorry for bothering you I can't help but hope that you don't think of me as a gangster Isn't it? I am not I think so But I'm afraid you really think it is Have another drink OK There is 20 million in this card I want to be alone Get out of here now! OK, who do you want to get out? Xie Yichen Zhao Jingye, why do you ask him to get out? Why do I have more money than him? More powerful than him A stinky worker dares to touch my woman Watch out, I will not only make him get out of this manor I also want to make sure he can't gain a foothold in Cloud City. You are shameless I am shameless Liang Ruohan Unless you find someone richer than me More powerful than me Otherwise, you will never get rid of me in your life. What are you still standing there for? Don't let him go away. This gentleman I'm sorry. You are the one who is going to be kicked out. Security Department Security Department Please clear out 806 items for me immediately What did you say Why do you let me go? Because money doesn't work here. Young Master Who is the Great Sage? You will soon know who I am You should answer the phone first. Oops, son. Come back soon Yip Group Not only did we cancel our company's bidding qualification They also banned our Zhao Group. The company's stock price plunged The loss is heavy. What did you say You are the richest man in Yuncheng Xie Family Young Master Brother Whale How come they threw all our luggage out? Because the owner of Huaxi Manor is our eldest son He has the right to drive anyone away. Please leave within one minute. I will let you see the truth You are actually the eldest son of the Xie family. Why hide your identity? Ruohan: Because I think identity is not important Loving you is more important But I will never allow it Zhao Jianyi is using his ridiculous power to suppress you again. Brother Jingyu I'll drink with you. Take a good look What happened last night You actually ordered it. I Ding Zi said I originally thought You are pure and kind I didn't expect you to be so vicious. Let's break up Brother Qianyi Listen to my explanation I just love you too much Bewitched Besides, wasn't Sister Ruohan also not injured? Please give me another chance. Never hide from me Never allow anyone to hurt Liao Ruohan Get out of here now Immediately Brother Jinyi Let me help you undress. You drugged me. So you wore Liang Ruohan's clothes that day I don't have any. You miss him too much. Keep changing his name Like a poor creature I just see you're so sad. I want to pretend to be him to comfort you Brother Jinyi Don't you want Sister Ruohan? You can still treat me as him Get lost You are worthy of being Ling Ruohan's substitute. Don't think I slept with you once Just take yourself seriously I've seen a lot of women like you. Don't give up dignity for money I just wave my hand They licked me like a dog. Extremely disgusting Xiaoying roll Uncle Wang prepared emetic medicine for me Why Why would you rather vomit than sleep with me? Why did the water suddenly stop? Where is the water meter? What are you doing I'm looking for a water meter. Find the water meter Let me help you mom son I didn't say you can just play. Still need to pay attention to privacy Auntie is not what you think Oh, no need to explain. Here is 5 million. Take it. mom Don't leave my son. My son Finally the iron tree bloomed Today, I must keep you Let's go, auntie. Take you shopping Come on, come on Aunt Tzuyu He just couldn't let go for a while As long as aunt is there The position of Zhao family's daughter-in-law must belong to you. Thank you, godmother The Zhao family is almost bankrupt Who is rare Or find a way to cheat this pure woman out of her money? Heard Mrs. Xie will also attend the auction today This necklace is not Help me get the 5 million yuan mistake To Mrs. Xie Good godmother 5 million 5 million once 5 million twice 5 million three times It's you Can you come to a place like Liao Ruohan? He must have hooked up with some rich guy. Humph, like this ghetto girl It's just a toy for us rich people. Want to marry into a wealthy family Go dream Ruohan, come and see This starry pearl necklace I just bought it for 20 million I think it's special Come and try it on. 20 million Mrs. Xie Liang Ruohan is actually with Mrs. Xie Looks like I have to leave now. Mrs. Xie, this bitch, actually set her sights on your family. Don't be fooled by him. He is just a prostitute My son raised me as a toy for 7 years. I don't know how many times my son slept with me. This bitch also cheated us out of a huge breakup fee In this case I have to take back this gift. I want to give him a bigger gift Ruohan I feel so sorry for you You've met scumbags over the years. It's hard for you Don't worry about it later You marry into our Xie family I promise that no one will dare to bully you again On the contrary, I will let you enjoy happiness for the rest of your life. Madam Xie, he is a disaster star How could such a woman enter the Xie family? Enough is enough. We cannot tolerate others' advice on our Xie family's affairs. A blessed person does not enter the door of an unblessed person Ruohan, you are a lucky person She is destined to be the daughter-in-law of our Xie family. And the Zhao family will never have good fortune Ah, thank you, Madam Listen to me Mrs. Zhao You haven't paid for the necklace yet. Didn't pay the bill Where's Ziyun? My card is still with her. lady After Miss Lin took away all the 5 million in your card I went abroad Bitch didn't expect that I would guard against it day and night The thief is beside me I feel sorry for her, an orphan. I have supported him since junior high school. I still think of him as my Zhao family Candidates for daughter-in-law What an ungrateful bastard. The lady was so angry that she became ill. But, to be honest, Miss Liang is much better than Miss Lin I also care about the young master When Miss Liang is here Everything is fine with the Zhao family Ms. Liang has only been gone for two months. Zhao Jiajiu A blessed person does not enter the door of an unblessed person Ruohan, you are a lucky person She is destined to be the daughter-in-law of our Xie family. Yes, Liang Ruohan really has nothing to say about Xiao Yi. Besides, he is now the apprentice of the green master. She is the schoolmate of the Xie family's eldest son. If Jing Yi married him Wouldn't that solve the Zhao family's dilemma? Jingye, don't you want to marry Liao Ruohan? I agree Hanhan My mother agreed to let you in. We can be together now I have cleared all the obstacles between us. No one can stop us anymore Get out of the way Ha ha I know I'm wrong Are you coming back? We are back together Zhao Jingyi, aren't you tired? Let's part ways in peace. Hanhan I love you my heart is still there You've been here for seven years Are you really so heartless? Don't worry, my mother has agreed to our marriage. I can marry you right away You are the only daughter-in-law of our Zhao family. Let Me Go Zhao Jingyi We have turned the page What's wrong Can Yichen take me to the Green House? good Liang Ruohan Why are you so tolerant of other men? So cruel to me You don't believe me Do you want me to take out my heart and show it to you? Stop pretending to be affectionate. What if you take your heart out? Your sincerity is worthless to me. Why Hanhan How did you become so strange? Zhao Jingyi's breakup was not an instant choice It's the disappointment that piles up day after day. Year after year, love is consumed I gave you ten chances. But you never cherish My sincerity is very expensive I won't be with a scum like you again. Is it that these 7 years Can you just throw away the feelings? 7 years Han Han has loved you for 7 years You spent 7 years abandoning him. Saying that you love him But everything you do is trample on him Insult him, you don't deserve his love. Not worthy to be with him Okay, let's go. Zhou Jingyi Beside Zhao Jingyi I Hate You Uncle Wang, please send this year's surveillance video to Ok, I'll send it to you now. Qin Ye I have a fever I feel so bad. Can you go home and take me to the hospital? Uncle Wang is not here I've been told that these few days have been very busy. Isn't it just a fever? Just drink some water I don't hate you anymore I don't love you anymore Miss Liang, why are you soaked? It's raining so hard Why don't you hold an umbrella? Isn't your father's funeral today? Hey, where's the master? I said hey Master, you are finally back. Slow down. Slow down. Yang Ruohan Yang Ruohan I drank too much A bit uncomfortable Make me some psychological soup Did you hear that? Do you know what day it is today? What an important day today could be What important things can a housewife like you have? son Since Liang Ruohan left You become much more depressed Mom, I feel bad. mom I'm sorry for her I was wrong Maybe we were really wrong. Um Uncle Wang, this medicine is good I drank for a few days My spleen and stomach feel much better now Oh, that's good. By the way, why didn't I know you could make medicine before? Madam, before Miss Liang left Give me all the prescriptions you collected before. I heard that this prescription was obtained from an old Chinese doctor. I asked for half a month. Be an apprentice to others I got it after a lot of hard work. Hanhan is still considerate Yes, Miss Liang is really a good girl. yes She not only loves me Still loving my family But I lost her Jingyi Shen's mother is wrong Let's go find him together. My mother and I went to apologize to him. Ask him to forgive us He loved you so much before Will definitely come back good Two prosecutors Previously, public opinion generally believed that Li San should not be held responsible for this car accident On what basis do you find him guilty? If you don't want others to know, then don't do it yourself As long as people do something There will definitely be clues left. Prosecutor Na Liang I heard that the defendant this time is not a small person You also received threats from anonymous people before the final trial Some people said that you wanted to withdraw from the trial. I don't know where you heard that. But I want to say Being a qualified judicial worker We should not fear power Not afraid of the weak My master once told me All cases taken over No matter how difficult it is You can't be a deserter. Old man, your little apprentice has grown up. Yes, I can retire with peace of mind. Sorry everyone I have something else to do I'll leave first. Hanhan, I was wrong Hanhan I was wrong Hanhan I was too arrogant before. Self-pity and inferiority Trying to hide your talent I've trapped you in a cage I built I ignored your talent. Take your dedication to me for granted I was wrong Ruohan Jingyi really knew she was wrong Just forgive him. Han Han, I'm sorry Can you please forgive me? Who is he? He is Lawyer Liang's ex-boyfriend. A fool without vision Trapped a talented lawyer at home Be a full-time nanny That's him The scumbag Zhao Jingyi who delayed our lawyer Liang's youth The belated affection is cheaper than grass I am no longer the soft person I used to be. Liang Ruohan ran over eagerly Now I don't need your apology. Hanhan I know I did a lot of wrong things before I swear You are my only woman from now on If you violate Die a bad death Aunt Ruohan also I know I'm wrong It's all my fault. Just because Jingyi kneeled down for you Just make peace with each other. I promise I won't stop you anymore. If you still feel unsatisfied Auntie kneels down for you too Hanhan I don't ask you to marry me. Even if you are with Xie Yuchen I just ask you to let me accompany you in the future Zhao Jinyi I already have my own life Also gained a wider world I will never be with you again We're done If you still love me Just let me go Hanhan Hanhan, I will let you see my determination Since you waited for me for seven years I will spend the next seven years waiting for you Hanhan, congratulations on becoming a prosecutor It seems you already know the news Why don't you come to congratulate me? Today is the highlight moment for you to realize your dream How can I be affected by my insignificant crush? Your secret crush is too obvious. Actually, I almost thought you were going to confess to me. Ask me for answers I will never ask you for an answer Hanhan I love you But I will never bind you in the name of love You can do whatever you want certainly My life doesn't need anyone's consent. In my life script Everyone is just an embellishment Life that shines alone is a feast in itself