- [Marcus] With DOOM Eternal finally out, we figured it was a perfect time to go through the most iconic part of the series, the demons! We've been gibbing this so now, we're going in the series. This is The Leaderboard with (clinking) Zombieman, lots of fellow on the Mars moon base. But some joined the ranks of Thankfully, these soldiers Their assault rifles are The Zombieman isn't much of a threat, but large numbers can still be deadly, especially on higher difficulties where their hit-scanning Shotgun Guy aka Former Sergeant. The Shotgun Guy is basically a more devastating Zombieman wielding, you guessed it, a shotgun. Their wide-spreading boomstick and they can quickly chew and health if he doesn't especially when they show up in groups. I mean, duh, okay, I'll stop Their hit scanning capabilities make them an absolute first priority and Hell at large. Imp, the Imp is the you see in Doom. This brown mess of pixels is tougher than his human counterparts and two different attacks, Fortunately, single imps and whittle down quickly with any weapon. As the games advanced, so did the speed and wall climbing ability of these foes. Demon, or Pinky Demon. Now we finally have a real demonic tank. The Pinky Demon only has but it will always charge Keep moving to escape its jaws. Doom 3 cybered the Pinky Demon up a bit, and Doom (2016) further upgraded it to have a highly armored front, making its back the weak point. Spectre, certain pinky These Spectres are nearly transparent, and they're much harder to keep track of and exterminate than Pinky Demons. Thankfully they're not just pay close attention, especially in low visibility environments. Baron of Hell, the first real the Barons of Hell, look like your stereotypical Standing twice the size of Doomguy, these guardians protect It's an epic battle, but in droves as just another enemy. They hurl deadly green fireballs, and unleash a devastating if you get too close. And obviously, they became in future iterations. Lost Soul, most souls banished to hell don't get turned into badass demons. Evil souls on earth will get a shrieking, floating, flaming skulls that kamikaze themselves Maybe you shouldn't have These suicidal skulls are fast, and they usually pack more attack and defense than a mere Imp or Zombieman. Oh, and their Doom 3 version has flesh, so it's way creepier. Cacodemon, Cacodemons are they defy gravity and threaten Doomguy with an extremely powerful and an extra gnarly bite. Cacodemons are slow, but they're almost as all while flying. They even get little arms in Doom 64! I like to think of Cacodemons as cyclops Geodudes that molted. Cyberdemon, as the the Cyberdemon guards the Tower of Babel, hanging over Hell's inferno. This demon stands several stories tall, and looks like a cybernetic Turns out that the Cyberdemon with bioorganic demon life and technology. Circle strafing with is the classic way to plasma rounds and the BFG9000 Spiderdemon Mastermind, is the brains behind the and it's nearly as formidable She doesn't have a rocket launcher, but a barrage from her in no time flat. Just keep up the firepower to interrupt her attack animations. Dr. Olivia Pierce kinda gets sacrificed into the Spiderdemon Mastermind as a dual reward and punishment for her allegiance to the underworld. Heavy Weapon Dude, the Heavy Weapon Dude also sports a chaingun, and this bald bastard It's a lot of attack power for a common human enemy in Doom II. Still, he's got hitscanner, so if he can see you, you're in danger. Thankfully, they go down almost as easily as any of the other zombies, especially with Doom Hell Knight, Hell Knights with half the defense but they hit just as hard. Their bald skulls from Doom 3 and DOOM Eternal, so they're from the Barons of Hell Arachnotron, the Spiderdemon Mastermind is a super cool design and all, Arachnotrons are basically with a good amount of steel defense. Fortunately, this creaky crawly doesn't inherit the chaingun from mom, it only has plasma rounds. Plus, Arachnotrons clink and clank, so you can usually hear them coming, as long as they don't warp in. Mancubus, okay so there's but the Mancubus is the real tank here. Think demonic Blastoise. These obese monstrosities were pretty slow before Doom (2016), but frankly, they can afford to stand Its twin arm rockets are more difficult to dodge than mere singular and they can take Doomguys The Mancubus does have but we'll get to the actual Revenant, the Revenant deserves This gangly bunch o' bones of sick human-demon experimentation that occurred in the Lazarus Labs. But looking at how they act, you'd think they were born in Hell. Not only do they pack a punch, literally, they'll punch you) but Revenants shoot heat-seeking rockets that are extraordinarily even back in Doom II. Pain Elemental, the my least favorite demon This meatball creates Lost Souls en masse, and it'll keeps churning them out until you can blow their brains out. And when that happens, they'll explode into three The Pain Elemental is one of in the game and an And Doom 64 upped the creep factor by giving them an extra mouth, joy. Arch-vile, so what's more that can spawn monsters? Well, how about a demon with telekinetic pyro The Arch-vile is arguably in all of Doom II. Nothing worse than to hear an Arch-vile warp in and start undoing all your Despite its thin naked frame, to copious amounts of lead or plasma. Without cover, any line of that lasts more than a few This thing can basically light you ablaze just by looking at you. Icon of Sin. (mumbling) The big bad of Doom II is indeed big. This Icon of Sin, also known as Baphomet, is honestly just a glorified wall texture in the original Doom II, Instead of attacking Doomguy directly, he simply spews skull from throughout the game. They could have Imps, they Fortunately, the Icon of Sin the exposed bit of brain on its skull. A few well timed rockets will take down this mother demon, but not the Mother demon, we'll get to that Matriarch in a bit. If you clip through the wall, you'll see Baphomet was John Romero's head on a spike the whole time. And of course, spoilers, he comes back in a big the Icon of Sin, not John Romero. Wolfenstein SS. In practice, the a reskinned German-speaking Zombieman with slightly higher health. But they're also Nazis. That makes them way scarier. As part of the secret this iconic baddie is a throwback to the common enemies found in the Doom predecessor Wolfenstein 3D. Mein Leben indeed. Commander Keen. And then we have the Easter egg within the secret level The space-exploring Commander Keen, shows up in Map 32 hanging from a noose, completely harmless to Doomguy. Doesn't stop Doomguy from Nightmare Spectre. The Doom PlayStation port or complete as the actual of Doom and Doom II, but it It's got a different tint of and it's faster and even tankier. It's a shame these in another Doom game or port. Nightmare Imp. Doom 64 didn't introduce many new enemies, but it did give most classic Doom monsters a nice little makeover. It also gave us the Nightmare Imp, sort of the Spectre version of the Imp. No, it's not quite transparent, but their dark hue blends Although it shares attack and the Nightmare Imp's fireball takes on a cool shade of purple! Motherdemon. After the events of the first Doom, the moons of Mars were heavily bombarded with radiation but one to escape detection and The Motherdemon looks like that flies around like the Cacodemon, but she's just as fast as Doomguy. This queen bee attacks Doomguy with a combination of flame that subsequently split Thankfully, she can be with the Unmaker if it's been powered up with all three Demon Keys. Doom 3 Zombieman and Z-Sec. Okay, Zombiemen in Doom 3 lose their long range assault rifle firepower from the original Doom. Instead, they just attack like because they're mere civilians. They come in a variety but they're all pretty harmless. Armed zombies are now known These more intelligent demon sporting either a pistol, Morgue Zombie. The morgue zombie is just like unarmed, weak, and easy to kill. But this skinny sack is even weaker than the other zombies, probably because they before the Hell outbreak. They're gimped enough to Fat Zombie. So the morgue zombie is skinny and fat enough to include Unarmed, this guy is still barely a threat but notably has slightly stronger defense than more metabolically blessed zombies. Chainsaw Zombie. Then there's the Chainsaw Zombie, former maintenance workers who turn Doomguy's iconic The Chainsaw Zombie is Flaming Zombie, with than the Fat Zombie, the Flaming through some cliched scripted event like a leaky pipe, This zombie also has a nickname, Bernie. Zombie Commando, the Zombie Commando is like Doom 3's Heavy-Gunner Dude, but they still have plenty of differences. The evil Betruger individually into super soldiers. Some do sport chainguns like but one version uses tentacle to harass the Doom Marine. Cherub, I know Cherubs look like babies, but this thing is far too disturbing to have been formerly human. These tots swarm like a Many fans believe that of Mancubuses due to their close proximity to one another throughout the game. I seriously still can't get their little demonic baby all these years later. Wraith, Doom 3's new Wraiths and they're just as strong, too. These hunched foes are best defined by their extended claw-like arms and of course, teleportation abilities. Pretty hard to hit a target that defies the laws of Maggot, quite possibly of Imps and Wraiths is These five legged stumps but they're insanely mobile and able to use their powerful hind legs to launch themselves Would be a lot easier to kill them if they weren't so darn Kinda reminds me of a Trite, so we've seen plenty of cyber-enhanced demonic spiders with the Arachnotrons and but no regular little demonic spiders! Well, the Trite is here to change that. Thankfully the Trites go down about as easily as a regular daddy long-leg, but per usual, watch Tick, the Ticks are slightly less common and slightly more spidery They can jump a little further but their bite packs a Vagary, The first boss of Doom 3 is kinda like the spider This half-woman, half-spider looks like the obnoxious arachnidesque There's no Spiderdemon but you could argue the Vagary of the iconic Big Bad. What really sets the Vagary apart is its new telekinetic ability. It really uses its debris-filled to its advantage. Sabaoth, Sabaoth is the of the no-nonsense Sergeant Kelly. Sabaoth brings Tanky to It's completely morphed and a literal tank lower torso, and Sergeant Kelly shows what happens when you give a highly intelligent That's way more dangerous than the iconic Cyberdemon's but Sabaoth ultimately and kind of a pushover. Guardian of Hell, as the of the Soul Cube, The Guardian of Hell sports coupled with Morningstar hands. It attacks by both charging and sending energy blasts The Guardian of Hell can In fact, it's completely and firepower outside of a small weak spot on its back that's almost always covered. Fortunately, this ancient fart is blind, and relies on floating entities Seekers, Seekers act as flying around its arena to your location, but they're When they're fully wiped out, the Guardian has no exposing its weak point on Bio-Suit Zombie, the new zombie enemy in Resurrection of Evil Bio-Suit Zombies only use the default Doom 3 zombie melee arm flail, but they can survive They'll even grant you oxygen tanks, well, in the non-BFG edition at least. Forgotten One, you know, it's kinda weird that Forgotten Ones have their own entry but Doom 3's Lost Souls don't. Forgotten Ones are really the ones that closely resemble the Flaming Skull of the original Lost Soul, but the fleshy Lost Soul of Doom 3 which acts exactly the same so, well, here we are. Whatever you call them, Lost Souls and Forgotten Ones than the ol' Doom 1 and II sprite version. Vulgar, Vulgars are like Doom 3's Imps but slightly more ape-like Now that I think of it, both Imps and Vulgars are so than their original versions that kinda deserve their own entry. And this iteration of made it all the way to Doom Bruiser. What do you get with a Hell Knight? You get a Bruiser, a muscle-fueled, highly-agile, fireball-blasting menace. The Bruiser is probably most distinguished by the surreal television screen attached to its face, sometimes it while other times it's Oh, what the hell man. Helltime Hunter. The first of Resurrection of Evil's three Hell Hunters, is The Maledict ordered these Hell Knights to retrieve the Artifact. The levitating Helltime to slow down time, you can tell by the way and jumps across the arena. Otherwise, he throws weak fireballs and is generally a pushover. And when the Doom Marine he can freeze time too. Berzerk Hunter. The Berzerk Hunter is that solves his problems with his fists. This dude basically and wails on you with all the passion and energy of a four-year Thankfully, the Doom Marine can use this public freakout power-up too. Invulnerability Hunter. The Invulnerability Hunter to attacks when it's This Edward Cullen from nearby coils, and can use this electricity Destroying the coils renders but it's still tough to of the three Hell Hunters. At least the invulnerability is totally worth it. Maledict. And finally we have the final boss of Resurrection of Evil, Maledict. This thing is the demonic form of the diabolical Dr. Betruger who masterminded the Now he's a winged skeletal monstrosity, with classic demonic horns. If that wasn't creepy enough, Betruger's human head chills in his mouth a la the Not gonna lie, it was super to blow this guys brains but his final com-up-ins in the expansion were oh so satisfying. Canine. Okay, so the Doom mobile of new enemies, and I simply If you actually played this hey, you get a gold star. We gotta start with the There's the basic brown Hellhounds, tougher red Cerberuses, Cerberi, and the most powerful of them all, the blue Demon Wolves, Kronos. According to the RPG's lore, This corrupted scientist is responsible for the demon invasion at large, and is ultimately transformed into a powerful demon resembling Sawcubus. The Sawcubus is the first and it's one of my favorite This chainsaw goblins the boring, pathetic green Greater Sawcubuses, and Zombie Civilians. Unique to the RPG version of we have civilian zombies, It makes sense, Doom II is There are the regular civilians and the slightly more equipped worker and technician zombies. Similar to Doom 3 zombies but different enough to include here. Watchers. The security-based Watcher cloakless Ringwraiths There's the Brown Brier, Green Sentry Bot. Every RPG has a generic fodder enemy. Some use bats, some use Doom II RPG uses red Sentry Bots. Pinkynator. The Pinkynator is the first This pink grotesque of that blob from that Goosebumps book with the haunted typewriter, anyone? Whatever, Pinkynator is a huge threat because it has the ability to rapidly spawn everyone's VIOS. John Romero eat your heart out. The new final, final boss or the Virtual Icon of Sin. This computer virus is corrupting data and building its strength for Doomguy can fight it along his adventures and try to delete the files to keep it from reaching its final form, or can pull a Vegeta at obscene full strength in the end. Possessed. Oh boy are these guys weakest enemy in the The Possessed lumber around, They ultimately help to make the Doom Slayer I'm just gonna go ahead and workers together, and oh the Unwilling or just ancient Possessed to Hell to work as slaves. Possessed Engineer. The possessed engineer is different enough to include separately, mainly because it's actually a threat. This thing is fused with an explosive tank it was working with during the Hell takeover. As such, it's a ticking time bomb, capable of blowing itself up Thankfully, this highly volatile zombie can be used to explode Possessed Soldier. The Possessed Soldier to the armed Zombieman of but this new version and sports a plasma gun. These soldiers exhibit behavior that a little smarter than a civilian's, often moving around and ultimately not being Possessed Security. If the Possessed Solider of the Zombieman, the Possessed Security is of the Shotgun Dude. They have a shotgun, but they also have a surprisingly Okay, I was kinda decent at Doom (2016), I got through Ultra Violence but I always had so much trouble flanking the Possessed Security Maybe it's just me and I suck, Hell Razer. The new Hell Razer usually fights alongside the Possessed The Hell Razer kinda but with laser guns of harnessed, concentrated pure hell energy. They almost feel like the But don't get your hopes up Hell Razer. Like Imps, you go down pretty easily. Cyber-Mancubus I told you we'd get to this big guy eventually. A clearly more powerful the cyber version has Instead of using fire-based attacks, it now uses some a type Gore Nest. You may not think the Gore but it is a mess of organic hell tissue that the Doom Slayer can annihilate. So I'd say it fits the criteria. Gore Nests are portals to Hell. When Doom Slayer destroys them, a wide variety of demons to ambush the Doom Slayer. Spoiler, it never works. Hell Guard. These gollum-esque are actually controlled by They're tasked with guarding deep within the Hellish Necropolis. Hell Guards wield a and can also shoot fire and The first one he encounters solo also has an extremely obnoxious Summoner. Okay so the summoner and supposed to be the Arch-vile But I'm so glad they changed the name, this thing simply doesn't It can still summon enemies and this time, it practically warps around the room but its flame trail attack can be dodged. Yeah, dodged, these to the original Arch-vile. That being said, I'd still usually use up my Thankfully, DOOM Eternal brings to its former glory. Harvester. The Harvester is the first multiplayer-exclusive Doom monster. This thing kinda looks like a cross between a Summoner and a Hell Knight, but the Harvester's soul is what really sets it apart. It can absorb the life and takes more energy Harvesters can then use to deploy a BFG9000-type energy attack. It's a great equalizer. Prowler. The Prowler is another in Doom (2016). This purple, muscle-pumped with an extremely high rate of mobility, and looks just like the Nightmare Imps. Unfortunately, the Prowler through these huge leaps, so one should have a mastery of movement if they wanna fight online. Prowlers showed up again on Earth in DOOM Eternal, which brings us to DOOM Eternal. Mecha-Zombie. DOOM Eternal brings back and Zombieman from the old Doom, but also introduces the Mecha-Zombie. Despite its cybernetic upgrades these undead are completely disposable and hardly register as a valid Gargoyle. The Gargoyle is a flying imp-like demon known for its high mobility and acid-spit a la the Xenomorph. Interestingly enough, even of flying enemies this is the first demon the only other one being the Maledict. Carcass. The carcass resembles a by the powers of hell and then given sick These include three insect-like With their small energy shields, Carcasses are a huge defensive They can slow down the Doom slow down but never stop it. Those energy shields are Tyrant. Remember how the Arachnotron into a common enemy sprinkled Well the Cyberdemon, arguably the most iconic never got this treatment Maybe if we had the Tyrant 25 years ago, we wouldn't have had to in the second freaking Tentacle. You can find Tentacles throughout DOOM Eternal's dystopian Earth as environmentally integrated enemies, hiding in the depths of I can't help but remember Star Wars: Dark Forces and the sewer dwelling tentacled Dianoga. Whiplash. I like to think the Whiplash's One, it wields, duel whip-like blades that would make any member of the Belmont family And of course, it has granting it slithery creepy mobility unlike anything we've previously Dread Knight. The Cyber Mancubus was but the Dread Knight is like a Where the Hell Knight is the Dread Knight can use to either slice and dice from up close or shoot energy projectiles from afar. Marauder. The Marauder is somewhat of a throwback to Quake's Death Knights. Heavily armored, and kind of medieval, the Marauder has a lot including an energy battle and a closer range super shotgun. If that's not bad enough, he also turns man's best The Marauder can summon Hellhounds. Weak alone but strong in numbers, these Marauder bi-products can The Gladiator. The Gladiator takes on in a, well, Gladiator-esque He looks a lot like the and is joined by summoned zombies as he relentlessly attacks He starts out with a large shield but quickly drops it for a second flail that he can spin rapidly to create an even more effective defense. Doom Hunter. The Doom Hunter is another that we meet in DOOM Eternal. It kinda looks like our buddy and despite its lack of BFG9000, it's still absolutely armed to the teeth. It attacks with rockets, an arm cannon, and even a double bladed Man, Doom Slayer really can't escape karma from his own tools, can he? Maykr Drone. The Maykr Drones are a total pest, especially during the final confrontation with the God-like Khan Maykr. These darker, literally grounded versions of their master rapidly fire and act as the perfect Khan Maykr. Okay, spoiler alert, the big brain antagonist of DOOM Eternal is the supreme leader of the Khan Maykr rules over the realm of Urdak, an ancient civilization mastering the use of the demonic argent energy. The Khan Maykr almost during its final confrontation unleashing its wrath from the sky while also being aided by pesky But ultimately, even against the Doom Slayer. This cast of characters has What's your personal favorite? I'll always have a soft spot Let us know in the comments below if you want more Doom content, and subscribe for more I'm Marcus with The Leaderboard,