Welcome back everyone It's Charlie, Amazon just confirmed Fallout Season 2 There was a pretty clear teaser for the next part of the story, based on the way Primarily season And for those of you asking about how this series is supposed to fit into the continuity of the games, actually clarified that in the show So we'll break it down. if you're brand new to the channel, I'll try to do videos for all the season two episodes. because the show's been so well received, like, it's People love it so much. I'm expecting Amazon to release it a little bit and with invincible, But when they were proven to be very popular, the first couple of episodes, but based on when they're actually scheduled two, they won't be able to release it until 2026. So it's going to be a while Jonathan Nolan also already said that the next person would be Aaron Paul from Westworld, And Aaron so you can let me know in the comments who you want but at the end of the finale, they tease Hank McLean, He steps on the skull of a deathclaw, also revealing In season two. the producers say the reason why you didn't didn't have enough episodes since there were so many things so they just opted to save a lot of that stuff, twist creatures for future seasons, Aliens. There was a teaser for Super Mutants in the enclave It was a blink and you'll miss it kind of reference, with cold fusion, he sees them carting the body Presumably we'll see more of them in other creatures and they'll probably save some stuff beyond that, like season three, they could do like ten seasons of the show And even though Hank you could possibly get on the totem pole he would still know Mr. House, who they showed in the flashbacks at the board He's the founder of Rob Co In present day, 200 plus years later the House always wins, ending for Fallout here's. We also get to the canon of the games. A lot of people were pointing towards Hank dropped the second bomb on the town, that meant Already. Shady Sands in the games was the capital of the NCR, was meant to be a really, really important faction But here's what Todd Howard in The Producers They did an interview claiming that the show in that Hank dropped the bomb on Shady Sands we're threading it tight there, You know, Grandma Geneva wanted to blow up You're like, what do you want to do? And just to people here who are watching this, there might be a little bit of confusion in the previous games, including New Vegas, happened. we're very careful about that. there have been some of you that the show was meant to take place several years I hadn't seen that particular interview, about the destruction of Shady Sands taking place Like I do believe the show is meant to fit inside technically, at this point, it'd be after the canon of the games, there were also a lot of people the show had to swerve on anything that the developers during the fallout five game, or doing anything Todd Howard seems like he has some involvement Martin is helping HBO adapt all of A Song of Ice and Fire for the Game of Thrones Right now. so I think he's probably helping them you might have seen the sales actually went way up, particularly on fallout 76 meaning that they will continue making new games based on all this, generally what's going to happen on the show, and at most they'll just recontextualize details For example, Fallout New Vegas, And they're probably gonna say Ending is the actual canon ending. so that Mr. House can still be around in present day. probably one of the biggest examples, though, Recontextualizing things that they only implied in for actually dropping the first bombs to start and implied that Vault Tech might be behind it but they'd also implied that other entities factions The show at least up to this point, did it in their bid to gain control of the future They wanted to control the future, killing everyone else so that there would be no one but I know there are a lot of theories that the enclave orchestrated might have really been controlling vault tech during the games, they revealed of companies here for years, before it actually went down. So wouldn't be too far off to theorize at least pushed Vault Tech to drop the first bombs. getting back to Mr. House. Like I said, the house always wins. A reference to Vegas gambling in real life. Also the name of one of the endings Probably now the actual cannon ending. The whole idea will always win, no matter what small victories it would be weird if they didn't have Mr. House during season two. So, like I said, that's he created the technology that. But Askins, the other Vault tech span in vault 31, turning himself into the brain during the events of Fallout New Vegas, you learn Mr. House here and was using a very similar version and control everything around New Vegas he also had an army of security agents, Rob Coe also created the Mr. Handy robots actor from before the Great War They just took his voice Mr.. House, his whole plan was to live forever, this tower that Hank sees in the distance. Here is the lucky 38 casino. Mr. House bought that before the Great War. Turned it into his personal residence, Because in real life, Howard of Las Vegas casinos turning into a recluse in his final years. Kind of like what Mr. House has done, like basically turns into a recluse, speaking of extending your lifespan. There were a lot of questions about how mold labor look that much older than she did in the past, like, a few more wrinkles. There are a lot of you that wondered frozen herself, like the Vault Tech executives House. I do think eventually I don't know if we'll see them in season two. They might save them for a future season. But based on the fact that Mal Diver looked my assumption would be that she just froze herself to reactivate her cold fusion device and participate She's in these flashbacks That was probably when she, froze herself she probably just stayed on frozen while she was planning to find a way to get Hank The funny thing about the code that she enters to activate the device is the release In real life. they didn't really touch on but I think they're still meant to be around live. Todd Howard made such a big deal about the show, I think that was them sort of slyly saying, Lucy and Cooper Hank Cooper said that he didn't want to kill him His wife and child, he opted to plant a tracker on Hank's power armor my theory is that he and Lucy will arrive at New Vegas and Lucy will be the POV character will just learn what happened to Las Vegas Cooper might already know about Mister House periodically since the Great War, But he revealed that he'd been acting and he'd been using that time to pursue people I think he was lying when he said that he was bounty I think he was only doing that to earn money, from turning into a mindless ghoul so that he could Cooper's wife kept referring to the good vaults, quote She and his daughter would be in one of those. I don't think they'd have him searching for them I think what will happen during season two He probably won't find them His family probably froze themselves. But because we've seen previously in the past, like she might have unfrozen herself that'd be very TV style twist but doesn't recognize her immediately some of you also theorize that they'll turn his wife because they wanted you to think it was her idea But I actually think that it wasn't really her plan. She was just reciting the plan given to her watching the board meeting. she was just his proxy on the board. But they really did want her to seem complicit So she shares as much blame I do not think she will be the ultimate main villain, that would either be the mystery I've also seen a lot of theories that that mystery president That would be funny, canon to the TV show if you zoom in enhancing in vault 33, there's a picture of him regardless, in future seasons in the background, There are a couple things in the game that they'll I'm not expecting a ton of alien stuff then there was the whole subplot with Maximus in the Brotherhood of Steel he was heralded as this great warrior at the end even though he tried to tell them he didn't kill her, who helped them gain control of cold fusion, that pays off the whole subplot with the leader of Steel with Maximus he'd been going on and on about how the Brotherhood and they'll probably start season two with them they also kept referring to the other factions the Midwestern faction. Early in the show, we might wind up seeing them two, is mostly focused on this area, So we'll probably see most of the show they probably won't travel further but everyone poster theories Now that we know it's all about New Vegas canon of the games, it makes it a little bit easier if you didn't see, there's also a real life phone It is hilarious Amazon's probably going to drop some bigger teasers once they actually start filming later this year, Whatever they wind up releasing, We also have the Warhammer There's also a BioShock series that they're working for that in the next year or two everybody click here for that Henry Cavill Warhammer Thank you so much for watching,