Hi I'm Adriene Hill, this is Crash Course Economics, We're going to talk about why we have taxes, and why you should go ahead and take that raise Also rebellions. And the British Empire's [Theme Music] While your struggles with taxes and the tax code people have been paying, and complaining, Way longer than any of us have been alive. Ancient Mesopotamians paid taxes in the form There are ancient Egyptians texts and tomb scenes showing evidence of taxes, tax collectors, and even tax shelters. Taxation and tax collectors also show up in Taxes appear in scripture as a necessity, like: "Render therefore unto Caesar the things which are Caesar's" And tax collectors are in there as sinners, More recently, in 1927, U.S. Supreme Court "Taxes are what we pay for civilized society." Maybe it's time we forgive tax collectors So we've had taxes pretty much as long as But why? What are the goals of taxation? At the most basic level, taxes raise money Taxes are used to promote the well-being of society - at least well-being as defined by the government in power. They help us afford services markets might Things like public safety and national Taxes can be used to protect the environment. They can help a country implement fiscal and monetary policies, meant to push along economic growth. Taxes can be used as a way to redistribute from people who have more to people who have less. This can happen in a couple of ways - some An income tax system that taxes high income earners at a higher rate than low income earners is one example. And we'll come back to that. Government subsidies and vouchers - like So do luxury taxes - basically an additional tax bill and that really annoying diamond ring space Governments can also use taxes to TRY to change Sin taxes on not-good-for-you products like consumption of unhealthy products. Gasoline taxes are meant to encourage people France passed soda taxes, to try to get people Denmark passed, and then got rid of, a "fat tax" A handful of governments, including those in British Columbia, Ireland, &amp; Chile have instituted "carbon taxes." These carbon taxes basically charge businesses polluting greenhouse gases they use or create. These carbon taxes take different forms around Residents of British Columbia, for example, pay (For those of us in the US, Myanmar, and Liberia who don't use the metric system, that's about $0.25/gallon.) In Chile, power plant operators pay $5 for every metric ton of carbon dioxide that they release into the air. When economists talk about taxes, they sometimes Direct taxes are paid directly by a person or organization to the government body that imposed the taxes. These include property taxes and income taxes I can't pass off the tax burden to someone Value Added Taxes &amp; sales taxes aren't exactly the same thing, but they're both good examples of indirect tax. They're collected by a store or seller or producer of goods, but are actually paid by consumers. They're taxes that ALL consumers have to A pair of socks at the mall down the street a billionaire buys that pair of socks at the Some economists say indirect taxes distort most dreaded by economists, the Voldemort of economic outcomes: inefficiency. Economists also characterize taxes as regressive, Let's start with regressive taxes. Regressive and, on their face, they might seem equitable, But regressive taxes take a higher toll on people Sales taxes, especially on essential items, That's why some places exempt food and prescription Some economists argue that fees for things licenses are also regressive. Why? Well, imagine two drivers go to the department One makes $200,000 a year, the other makes Both will pay exactly the same amount for The license fee is a much bigger hit for the And that's why regressive tax takes a disproportionate On the other end of the taxing spectrum, there Progressive taxes are more or less the opposite in that they shift the burden of taxation to people who make more money, and away from those who make less. In the United States, our income tax is a more in taxes as they make more income. But before you start worrying about whether bump you into a higher tax bracket - it's worth understanding how the progressive When the IRS calculates how much you owe in based on the amount of taxable income you These marginal tax rates represent the highest Right now, there are seven tax brackets. But no matter which tax bracket you find yourself in - Instead, your taxable income gets divided up and you pay the associated rate on each of For example, say you made $37,450 as a single That would put you in the 15% tax bracket. But, you'd still pay the lower 10% rate on the first $9,225 you made. So if you took the extra $100 and made $37,550 But again, you'd only pay 25% on that extra $100. The other thing you've gotta keep in mind number of tax credits, tax exemptions and tax So your tax bill will never be as painful Many other countries around the world have But it turns out it's difficult to measure tax system is, especially compared to another It's not as easy as looking at countries they have more progressive tax policy - because so many other taxes and tax breaks come into play. In the U.S. some economists argue, the progressiveness of many other taxes we pay. If progressiveness and regressiveness are So we've covered regressive and progressive The third type of taxes are proportional taxes. Proportional taxes require the same percentage of income for all taxpayers, regardless of how much they make. A flat tax is an example of a proportional You'll hear politicians touting flat taxes - in part because they're relatively simple compared to the U.S.'s current, incredibly-elaborate tax code. And because they kind of FEEL fair. The woman making $200,000 ends up sending while the guy making $20,000 sends only $2000. Economists who oppose the flat tax say that They argue a flat tax isn't as simple OR For one, they say that getting rid of all we mentioned earlier could change a whole lot from saving for retirement in tax protected accounts to to home ownership and donating to charities. All those activities are encouraged by the Like we mentioned before, there are economists in the U.S. offsets some of our other, more They say a flat tax would shift the total and middle classes, actually making our broader All of this is complicated. Before you buy into anyone's plan to reform into what it might mean to the economy. And make sure you're comfortable with all Speaking of implications of tax policy: A poor tax choice by a government can and has resulted in rebellion. Let's go to the Thought Bubble. One tax rebellion you've probably heard After the Seven Years War ended in 1763, Great It needed to raise revenue from somewhere, In 1764, the British Parliament started taxing In 1765, they enacted the Stamp Act, which Colonists grew more and more frustrated with British officials, both with tax policies and other interventions. Anyway, you know how it goes. "No taxation without representation." Boston Tea Party. A big war. The French get involved. And we end up with a free America. With taxes AND representation. Except in Washington, DC! More recently, in India, there was another super interesting tax rebellion - called the Salt March. In 1930 India, the British were in charge, outlawed Indians from collecting or selling Instead they had to buy it from a British Mohandas Gandhi decided to defy the Salt Act Arabian sea - to gather tax-free salt. Along his route, more and more Indians joined He got to the beach, picked up a piece of Thousands of others followed his lead - making and selling non-British salt - in a non-violent resistance. The Salt March was extensively covered in attention to the largely non-violent Indian All that because of taxes. Of course, there are other ways to get around than fighting or starting a mass-civil disobedience Based on historical documents, we know people have been running away from paying taxes for years. Some literally picking up and leaving their Other people have discovered career paths Historians think that some European men became monks during the Middle Ages to avoid being taxed. There's proof that some Chinese men joined Buddhist monasteries to get out of paying taxes. There is plenty of room for disagreement and what it should and shouldn't be doing. All those discussions matter to you as a taxpayer, and as someone who benefits from taxation and government services. But, as we've said time and time again - there are some services the market just won't provide. Some protections it won't guarantee. No one likes paying taxes. But we do like what they do for us. Thanks for watching, we'll see you next Thanks for watching Crash Course Economics. It's made with the help of all these nice people who also think salt taxes are incredibly regressive. You can help keep Crash Course free for everyone Patreon is a voluntary subscription service non-tax-deductable contribution. And get rewards! Thanks for watching.