Today on most domestic flights you're lucky but back in the Golden Age of air travel, the 1950s, 60s, and' 70s pretty much every ticket came with a luxurious meal. Meals like this one from United Airlines in 1954 which includes pot roast, Delmonico potatoes So thank you to Trade coffee for sponsoring this video as we fly the friendly skies this time on Tasting History. So based on the age of most of my audience neither did I. I'm not quite that old but I did get to be around for some of the vestiges of the golden age like getting to go into the cockpit as a kid and have the wings put on me by the pilot himself, but when it came to food I wasn't around for any of the good stuff. It was always just peanuts and Coke and frankly it's probably a good thing because the the quality of But that was not always the case because like in the on the quality of food that they were serving. That's so they couldn't compete on price so they had to compete in other ways. Basically how to make the flight actually more pleasant for the passengers and one big thing was food. And today I can actually travel back in time and try some of This is a cookbook that was put out in 1954 by United Airlines. It's called &quot;Favorite Recipes of Mainliner Chefs' and today I've chosen three dishes from this book so I can create an entire meal that would have been served on an airplane in 1954. First is a beef pot roast by Chef Emil Salzmann from the New York Flight Kitchen. Then the Delmonico potatoes by Chef and finally the heavenly delight salad by Chef Edward Gerber of the Washington DC Flight Kitchen. And the flight kitchen is where they would actually prepare the food before they would put it on the plane just before takeoff. Now the second two recipes are pretty simple but the first recipe has a lot of ingredients. So for the pot roast what you're going to need is 2 and 1/2 pounds of beef chuck or round, one pound of veal bones. Finding veal bones is quite Two cups of beef stock, two medium onions quartered, six ounces of tomato paste, two bay leaves, one sprig of parsley, one cup of diced carrots, 1/2 cup diced celery, six whole two teaspoons of minced garlic, two tablespoons of butter or other fat. One cup of dried red wine, and then some flour and salt and pepper to taste. And as always I'm going to have these recipes all up on the tasting history website with metric so you can follow along at home. So first Chef Emil has you season the meat with plenty of salt and pepper and then dredge it in flour. Then melt the butter in a large pot and then add the meat and the marrow bones and let the meat sear for several minutes on one side, and then flip it over and let it get some color on the other. Once it's lightly browned all over add in the onions, celery, carrots, parsley, whole cloves, bay leaves and peppercorns, and let it cook for about 15 minutes. Then add the garlic, and let it come to a simmer. Then put the lid on and let it cook at a simmer for about 2 hours, or until the meat is just falling apart and during that time you can make yourself up a cup of coffee from today's sponsor Trade. Now on an airline the coffee is never really good and partly that's because our sense of taste is is all wonky up there, we'll get into that later, but also the water tends to be really That last part at least can be rectified by getting your coffee with Trade. Trade is a coffee delivery service that delivers And since they work with over 55 local roasters they are able to roast that coffee and get it to you within just a couple days so it is at peak freshness. You just let Trade know what you like in a coffee, how you like to brew it and how much you drink and boom that little red bag arrives on your doorstep filled with coffee goodness. This week I received the Emporium House Blend from Cuvee Coffee. It's one of my favorites because it has a slight sweetness to it which actually pairs really well with creamer which is how I like to drink my coffee. And they have hundreds of different roasts so there is really something for everyone. And right now when you sign up using my link, drinktrade.com/maxmiller you'll get $15 off of select plans, and your first bag of coffee is free. That's drinktrade.com/maxmiller and I will put that link in the description, and you can use your Trade coffee to make Irish coffee or by someone working for the airlines. It was invented in 1943 for passengers of a flying boat at Foynes Airbase in Ireland. Supposedly a bunch of disgruntled passengers got off a plane so the chef there just took some coffee and put some whiskey in it to calm everybody down and there we have the Irish coffee. And you can For that you'll need eight medium potatoes peeled and chopped, 1/2 cup chopped pimentos, 2 cups half and half and So first mix the potatoes with the pimentos and then add a teaspoon and a half of salt and a teaspoon of pepper to the half and half and set it on the stove to heat up just until it simmers. Then pour all of that over the potatoes making sure the potatoes are covered, and then set the dish in the oven at 375deg F, 190deg C are totally cooked through. Then take it out of the oven, up the oven to 400deg sprinkle a bunch of Parmesan cheese to cover the top, and return it to the oven for 5 more minutes or until the top is melted and lightly browned. Now before we make our heavenly delight salad, which really stretches the definition of a salad, make sure you subscribe to Tasting History, hit that Like button it really helps the channel, and let's talk about the history of airline food. So before we get into history I want to mention this wonderful resource that I used called 'Food in the Air and Space' by Richard Foss. It's a wonderful deep dive into the history of food in the air, not just airlines, but in space and even he goes all the way back to the It's fantastic, you should check it out if you are interested I am not going all the way back the 18th century, I am starting just after World War I in 1919 where on October 11th the first meal on a commercial airline was served during a Handley Page flight from Paris to London. This was a prepackaged lunchbox with a sandwich and food was not included in the price of the ticket so you had to shell out 3 Sshillings for this cold lunch. And pretty much for the next decade all meals on planes were cold, like Western Air Express meals on flights between Los potato salad, and sandwiches were catered by the which sadly only closed a couple years ago. The same year that they were serving cold fried chicken 1928, Luft Hansa upped the ante with the first hot inflight meal on flights from Berlin to Paris, where the food was made on the ground and then kept warm in insulated containers. This began airlines increasing desire to provide passengers with the best and most cutting edge cuisine available. The issue was keeping it warm because especially on a longer flight those insulated containers just didn't really cut it, and so if you wanted to heat the food up on the plane you had to have an oven built on the plane, and most planes just weren't that big but the flying boats of the 1930s were, and Pan-American Airlines, PanAm, installed galleys on many of their Clippers so they could not only reheat the food, but actually cook it. They even had a dedicated dining room aboard with tables and white tablecloths so it was more like eating in an actual restaurant. United Airlines soon followed suit and began installing kitchens on their planes where they would serve, not cold but hot fried chicken as well as freshly scrambled eggs. This is also around the time when United Airlines really began priding themselves on the quality of their food. By the way this is not sponsored by United Airlines, just talking about history, maybe it would have been nice if they had sponsored it... though once I get to the part about flight attendants stewardesses and how they train them, they'd probably revoke that sponsorship, we'll get to that. Anyway, United made a huge leap forwarin the quality of airline food in 1936 when in Oakland California they opened up their first flight kitchen. They hired top chefs to design a menu worthy of a wonderful luxury restaurant on the ground, but with the idea that these dishes could be served in the air. Far more elaborate dishes could be made this way by preparing them on the ground rather than in the air, and that is what they called their mainliner cuisine. And that is actually what we're cooking from today, it's those dishes that they created. Other airlines quickly followed suit and menus from this time period really show how fancy airline food could get. Mignon of veal with Russian sauce, Boston cream pie, or an entire Irish themed meal on St Patrick's Day 1940 with a Dublin style Leg'o lamb stew. European airlines were going extra fine dining by serving everything from lobster to foie gras to peach melba. Now the next big technological leap came as many During World War II William Maxson, or rather his in addition to the Maxson multiple gun his company developed the Maxson Whirlwind oven heat things more evenly and much quicker. This it was designed to fit these meals called Maxson for the Navy and the Army during the war and afterward. Then after the war Pan-American Airlines took these ovens and installed them on many of their commercial planes so that they could get rid of the full kitchen or have the food that was being brought on heated at a much quicker pace. It was also during the war that several airlines hired Now there had been female flight attendants or during the war the lack of men saw the female In fact in subsequent decades many airlines and they started using the female stewardesses as a basically saying hey you want your food and Now this meant that stewardesses really had to become the ultimate early 40s you actually had to be a registered but by the 50s the airlines were doing all of that from United Airlines, told you we'd get back &quot;Two months ago Sheri Woodruff couldn't even balance a cup of coffee. But she was friendly, intelligent, and attractive. And wanted more than anything else to be a great But then she had 5 and half weeks at United stewardess's school. &quot;We taught Sherri how to serve a gourmet dinner, how to soothe a first-flyer, how to apply everything from make up to first aid... Today she can warm a baby's formula with one hand and pour four cups of coffee with the other.&quot; They actually use these ads to entice young women to apply to learn the skills not of a great stewardess but of a great housewife. They even went so far as to imply that on one of the flights as can be seen in this 1967 ad. &quot;Old Maid. That's what the other United Airline stewardesses call her because she's been flying for almost three years now. (The average tenure of a United stewardess is only 21 months before she gets married.) Maybe that's why more people fly United than any other airline. Everyone gets warmth, friendliness, and extra care. Of course as soon as they did get married United would fire them and that wasn't deemed illegal until 1971. They also had a mandatory retirement age of 30. Now during the 50s and 60s the airlines would actually use the stewardesses and the cuisine in tandem to sell passengers on their flights especially with something they called themed flights. Like These were themed Italian, French, Old English and Manhattan penthouse. The flight attendants wore costumes like the English flight they would wear like a wench whatever country it was and of course the cuisine Northwest Airlines really doubled down on these theme flights with something called the Fujiyama room. On October 30th 1955 they debuted these rooms featuring kitschi Asian decor on a number of planes, and they would serve food like shrimp, cheese, and fruit out of a pineapple with little umbrellas sticking out of it. It was sort of like Japan and Tiki culture mashed up thereby ruining both. Then there was Western Airlines' Hunt Breakfast, flights from 1957. This was styled in the tradition of an Old English hunt breakfast basically having breakfast out while you're hunting, and so all the food was themed that way too but when it came to the sounds it would be barking dogs and bugles. Now perhaps no flight married the idea of the pretty something I'm sure the company would like to forget. These flew from 1953 to 1970 and were men only, women were not allowed to purchase a ticket on these flights. Aimed at the executive businessmen of New York and Chicago these flights would take off every day at 5 PM flying between the two cities and there's an ad from the time that lets you know exactly what you can expect. &quot;United Airlines invites you to fly 'The Chicago Executive'. A club in the sky for men only... You'll enjoy the informal, club-like atmosphere. Smoke your pipe or cigar, if you wish, and make yourself more comfortable by using A full course steak dinner is table served by the two stewardesses aboard. It's a delicious meal prepared by the experienced Now it wasn't just these themed flights but really all flights of the 1950s and 60s that tried to up their game when it came not just to food but just luxury in general. The seats became cushier than ever often fully reclining or on some longer flights there would be an entire berth with a lay down bed like you'd expect on a train or on one of the really top luxury airlines of today, and this is when the food really became a spectacle. There was a TWA flight where they would roll a trolley down the aisle with a whole piece of roast beef where they would slice it off and you'd be served roast beef au jus right there from the aisle. Other trolleys would include chilled seafood like lobster, and crab legs, there were fresh fruit trays, salads and charcuterie, and even a dessert cart where they would make a sunde right in front of you. BRING THAT BACK. I'm starting a petition. Now one of the most splendid setups for food actually came from Scandinavian Airlines where they offered the Scandinavian country style buffet during the late 60s where they would carve a ham right there in the aisle. Now while the food was getting more splendid that doesn't because the flavor of the food wasn't exactly what it was First of all if it was made on the ground and then kept on the plane and then having to be reheated you're essentially eating really fancy leftovers but another big thing was that we don't taste the same when we're up in an airplane, partly it's because the real real lack of humidity messes with our sense of smell, and hence our sense of taste so you're not tasting the food so they started adding a lot more salt and sugar to their recipes to compensate but while that may have helped with the flavor of the food there was something else coming along in airline travel that would really screw up the service and that was the adoption of jets. Airlines began switching over to jets which went much much faster than the earlier airplanes, and this meant that the seven course meal often served even on domestic flights was becoming a thing of the past at least in economy, sometimes in first class now I guess you get it but even so everything had to be sped up. The shorter service time also led to most airplanes swapping out glassware in china for plastic trays and plastic forks, because unlike the china you didn't have to clean it right then and kind of stack it nicely which took a lot of time, but rather you could just toss it in a bin and and deal with it when you landed though this was published in 1954 and they're already eating off of plastic so you know it was- it was a gradual change and a new reputation of being rubbery and bland. There's 'Do I Hear a Waltz?' and there's a whole song about the &quot;The shiny stuff is tomatoes, the salad lies in a group, the curly stuff is potatoes, the stuff that moves is soup, anything that is white is sweet, anything that is brown is meat, anything that is grey don't eat.&quot; And you know that was kind of the reputation for the next few decades. Of course this change in the quality of the cuisine really only affected the economy class or coach class, and nothing exemplifies this kind of divide between coach and first class at the time better than the Great Sandwich War. See it was 1958 and the International Air Transport Association (IATA) who made sure that all planes around the world were following the same rules, decided to allow for the first economy tickets but because they were going to be less expensive than this meant that nobody got any food, any hot food who purchased this all they could get was a sandwich but there was PanAm and American Airline who said that a sandwich was some meat with bread, and then there were the European sandwiches and they went all out, you'd get &quot;five slices of ox tongue, a lettuce heart, asparagus and sliced carrots- on a slice of bread; or five slices of liver pate, fried crisp bacon, mushrooms Basically it was a whole meal on a slice of bread, so it was well they're using that to their advantage, we're supposed to be on an even playing field so the association had to come up with a definition of a sandwich. &quot;A sandwich must be cold, largely of bread or something similar unadorned, self-contained, and must not include such fillings as caviar oysters or lobster.&quot; Basically give the economy class passengers the meager food that you can possibly find, a theme which is still with us today but should you have been able to afford a first class fare then the great meals would have continued and should you have gobs of money available to you then starting in 1969 you could book passage on the Concord. The Concord and did so at twice the speed of sound which would get you to your destination in just 3 and a half hours. Now these were flowmostly by British Airways and Air France and the cost of a ticket depending on the time could cost as much as 30 times the average price of an economy ticket but for that you got there a lot faster and you got quite the meal. &quot;What followed the coffee was a breakfast of fresh papaya, guava, pineapple, strawberries and mangoes, croissants and brioche that might have come from a Paris bakery, a pretty good approximation of eggs benedict and a souffle Gruyere, all washed down with Piper-Heidieck Cuvee Diplomatique. The china of course was Limoges.&quot; What really ended the splendid food of airlines as well was the age of deregulation which started in 1978. Airfare had been regulated for decades making it so that the only way the airlines had to compete was through perks like wonderful food and their flight attendants or stewardesses, leg room, the comfort, entertainment or those flights where they had dogs and bugles playing throughout the cabin, that hunt breakfast. I wouldn't like that, but with the deregulation they could start to do price wars and this was good and bad. The good part was that it dramatically lowered the price of airfare. For instance this TWA list of flights from 1955 shows that a flight from Boston to Los Angeles cost $106 dollars, that's about $1,200 in today's money. Also since planes were a lot slower at the time and had to no thanks. But these price drops made it so a lot more people had had flying available to them but that also meant that the quality of the flight More seats and planes were required to make up for lower fairs which meant a far less comfortable flight, and there were also fewer options for food and on many flights no food at all. This is when Southwest distinguished themselves as the peanut airline and for most of my childhood I recall fondly my dad coming back from business trips always on Southwest Airlines it feels like, and he'd have his pockets just filled with these little bags of peanuts or if I was lucky the honey roasted peanuts and that was wonderful. Now the early 80s saw the Golden Age of air travel especially in economy class come to and end, many business and first class flights still go to great lengths to offer quality food, often getting top chefs to prepare menus for the airline I'd rather rather pay less and get you know a stupidly expensive sandwich at the airport and just bring it on with me. The one food you should never bring on an airplane is french fries, never do that. It just smells up the whole cabin, don't do that. Though you could bring on this this pot roast because it is also smelling up the cabin, my house, but it's it smells really, really good. So as soon as the pot roast is cooked through and then strain it out and save the onions And now to prepare a very quick dessert or salad because even though this is absolutely a dessert it's actually in the salad section of the book. You'll need four tart apples cut into small pieces, then add 32 mini marshmallows and cut 8 maraschino cherries in quarters and mix those all together with the marshmallows and the apples. I'm also making a half portion because this is still going to make a lot of heavenly delight salad. In a separate bowl whip a cup of heavy cream into whipped cream, and then add a teaspoon of lemon juice, a teaspoon and a half of mayonnaise and a teaspoon and a half of honey. Mix it all together, then mix it with the apples, and it's ready to go. And here we are a full meal worthy of a United Airlines flight from the Golden Age of air travel. I just have to show you this tray, I put the cups It's actually not from the 50s it's from the- I believe the but I just thought it was so cool. It's an actual tray from the time it even had has like little salt and peppers, and of course plasticware, so I'm going to try to eat a pot roast with this. Let's give it a try. All right even after like 60 years the the knife is pretty good. Lets go. I knew it would be amazing 'cus it smelled so good. It is so tender, it just falls apart. I really, really like the addition of kind of adding in the the onions and the other things that we're cooking on top of it, unless you get like a bay leaf, don't eat a whole bay leaf. But it just- it's so flavorful and I'll be eating the whole thing over the next couple days. Now let's try the potatoes. So I think that I made a mistake and didn't I mean the flavor is great, it's cream and potatoes and parmesan cheese what's not to like. I just think that if I had diced be a little bit better or at least they'd be Honestly even doing these as mashed potatoes I And finally onto our salad dessert, and get a little bit a little apple, little cherry. Hm! It's not as sweet as I expected. Now the original recipe says you could actually add sugar, I wouldn't. These are tart apples but they're not- it's not tart. It has a little zing from the apples and from the lemon juice but it's plenty sweet. It doesn't need to be any sweeter 'cus I mean but it reminds me of ambrosia kind of. my nana would once in a while make that for Easter. It's fun, it's delicious I wouldn't call it a salad. It is definitely a dessert but you know. So what I got to say all three dishes really good I would make all three again I'd probably mash the potatoes but that's the only change I would make. That pot roast is definitely going on my- in my repertoire of of weekly, or probably monthly dishes to make, and I will see you next time on Tasting History.