Everyone is Yoshi or Peach. This is my first-ever also never done a 4v4, but yeah, this is my it's free-for-all, but okay. Let's try to get to going to not chain here, instead just go up to the yep, I got bumped so bad. There's two people I can I have to really lock in here. Oh wow. That was and it put me in that line, and then I'll chain the star into the next set. No coins. have to really lock in because it's so much easier what the--I forgot to turn on smart steering. Oh, think I want two items here. Star, golden. Okay, I I barely dodged that banana. Oh, the bomb! What? went way too high. [Music] A bit of a disaster of some nerves. Okay, good. Dolphin Shoals. This is of course not. Everyone's taking them. Okay, teammates. My teammate is tag &quot;R.&quot; Well, I have Get the per--yes! Nice, nice one. Okay, we'll throw glider anyway? I missed the mini-turbo. All right, you not to hit me here. Okay, we're not getting this is good. I can take the motion glider. Got a little draft off my teammate. Very nice. the motion glider, messing it up. It's okay. super horn too early, or it's just gonna get for an opponent. Oh no, bad driving. Okay, it's We're in top two right now, and I have a if there's no blue shell, let's just do the motion more confidence going forward. No trick here. Four you know what? I'm not gonna do it. There's a blue there is a first place! That's what I'm talking that were too bad. Wow, we got a top two. Wait, my teammates what to pick. Um, Rosalina's Ice love it. And since it's a 4v4, there's actually a Yes! This is a lot of pressure. Three people are I think I got a good start-up boost. messed up at the first moment. All right, at matter 'cause I had a mini turbo anyway. Oh, my I'm gonna go left, try to get some coins. My messed that up, but we saved it. I'm protecting I'm so glad my mess up at the start didn't really teammate actually hit that? What? Are you serious? I never let go of R from the trick. This is so the blooper, that blooper did not make anything no, no, no! My red shell skipped the person I did that. [laughs][Music] Hopefully that Okay, stay inside. Save this mushroom for hit by fire. I'm on the boost panel section fifth place. [sigh] That was still pretty sloppy, Yeah, that was definitely my fault. I need got that lounge culture. Uh-oh. No! Why are my teammates with DL? Why Toad's we got Excitebike Arena. All right, let's see and if I get destroyed, I'll just bag. Oh, okay, threw that away by accident. At least it to evaluate soon if I'm gonna bag or not. Let's until I can get a decent number of coins, 'cause be good. Here we go. Wow, I'm getting so many this track. [Music] Nice, I'm at 10. Okay, we're That's crazy. There's a red shell behind me. Was it's not my teammate. B kind of looks like This is so difficult. I had to brake drift. Okay, don't hit me. This is really dangerous. tricking. I don't need to mess this getting all the 10 coins immediately You see how much faster I was going? I didn't overall. Thank you! Everyone's so nice. Oh, what do we want? Hyrule Circuit. Uh, that's I think I'll frontrun this. I'm in first place, and then first place actually has a Okay, and the thing is, hopefully some of give us presence at the front and the back, but I've heard some good players talk about that. useful in this game. And so, I'm probably not are gonna pass me here. Oh, apparently not. Just even come before the blue shell, so cycling for a red mushroom. Oh, not right in between. Thank moving forward even though I don't have the speed There's the shock. Okay, nothing mattered for the and I have a mushroom. Uh, correction--oh, what said I had a mushroom and then I thought this is--this is doable. [Music] Third. Very, I've ever done the green mushroom strategy that and I was so focused, and that's why I wasn't &quot;nice3&quot; Nice for getting third? Third's not tracks now, huh? And you know what I'm picking. Yeah, let's go! I'm gonna be honest. It's been the game just makes it easy for me and gives me in third. Wow, I got both coins and an item. Okay, I just trailed, and I missed a purple mini turbo more time than most purple mini turbos. Uh, I sloppy right now. Very slow. Luckily, my slow to brag. It's very important that the top so they're not gonna, like, team with each other. could potentially break in. Oh, motion glider. sucks. Need coins right now. This is my teammate, If this Peach doesn't have an item, she is dead could have done something about it, I happens in time trials and you can just Oh, the draft! That draft completely ruined but you're slower when you're--I literally got and my team didn't do so well. Okay, I'm still my team's performance, but I can try to control The interesting thing about a bagging track it doesn't really provide an advantage to any any position, and then bag, and that's optimal. just wait for other people. You can definitely shock, it's very tough. If there's multiple blue just--it's just completely over for you. Oh, I'm very good items for eighth though. Okay, I'll invincible for a while. [Music] Okay, gonna items at the next set. Nice. I can chain this. for triple mushrooms after this though. I'm just right away. This is crazy! I got no item! Please even check who was near me. No item! That's What was that? I almost got first! That's crazy. Oh, and we--did we just top two'd? Amazing, but nice. I think we did. Nice thunder. All right, in the bottom spot and pulling a mushroom. And no mushroom. Maybe a draft? No. Maybe? No. a mushroom. I'm gonna lose a few spots right here, banana. Okay, going for a coin. Oh, I'm so low on have green shells. I threw that by accident, I'm it. Grab your coins. I'm just trolling--trolling pressing R if my teammate was ahead of me, and There always is. No, no! I got out of the way too a disaster. [Music] I'm staying right, taking the Okay, this is so scary. There's fire right ahead need items right now. I'm in ninth. This would be Get it before you and before you. Triple greens? I just predicted. Oh, wow. Chaos! Okay, slight Eighth place. I mean, I really felt like that team top two'd! And we're in top two overall! come on. Can we just, like, revolt and not pick support your teammates. Oh, I'm so happy we didn't didn't get it. It's not just okay, this is the no item. Whoa, lots of air and then very little up. Yes! No one's going up with me. Can't be we're in--nice. I wish I could communicate to my what? I'm just in first. Okay, so I was prepped I need to hold this to dodge the blue shell. Wow, it didn't go for me. I don't know if that's not. That was such a bad line. Okay, so we still up. Okay, I have to hold this. There's a kind of bad driving, but there's nothing they can to red shell me. It's just gonna hit them. Bullet! a star in second? That's crazy. Might still be Just don't get fourth. Okay [laughs] That was car. I was hoping I would still be in the glider, up the team. That's still good. We're still most supportive teammate I've ever had. [laughs] Why am I manifesting bad energy? Just--just We don't talk about it. Oh, I swerved to dodge hit me if I didn't do that. Okay, so I didn't get simply just drove off the track. All right, we're And I missed them. Okay, I'm gonna be in ninth one of my teammates playing Peach? I have no idea. my teammate is not in first place right now. Ah, would have helped. What the? Okay, we should just I don't think I did. Don't trust this shortcut Wow. There's fire, really? And there's a bullet. was my teammate. [laughs] I'm so sorry. At least wow! I can't believe I won that race even after as if that's not a real thing. And of course, you so much! Oh, I need to pick a track. What's a WP. This is so nice. Someone on the other team track picks that we want. So, this is how you a very interesting or particularly fun track, that mess-up could have been really bad. So, if a top position for a while on this track, you kind top--in number two--so I don't really have to worry just start spamming my coins. But now I have to already on the path. What? I missed the item. but I'm gonna keep holding this coin 'cause they this. All they see is a coin--they can only see my right behind me, but I thought there was a red enough away that if they get trailed, it's their nice. [Music] Uh-oh. Oh, good thing I--no! Okay, I me. I really tried to trail this Yoshi. Okay, nice got hit--I have no clue. Got him. Okay, now there's nothing at this point. So, my thinking was I'd get then I made a little mistake, and they caught up throwing the fire was wrong, I just think I messed pretty good pick because if I can pull a mushroom is guaranteed, then I can take a big shortcut at up to the front. Oh, great. I went for the same we--oh, got bumped off by my teammate, of course. by my teammate. [laughs] What a disaster. Bonk. gameplay. Avert your eyes. No idea who's behind so that shouldn't hit my teammate because it is in Okay, it didn't matter, but I couldn't drop down up to go down, but it didn't quite work. What the? holding that boomerang for way too long. I think comeback is so doable. The pack is really close. Plant. Stay to the side. Get this person. I didn't. Why are you so slow? Snake or something. turned out. Yes! Yes, I got first overall, and all I really wanted. Yes, we won my first ever everyone else told their score. DL, the Toad's