At first, Mantis Boxing focused on bravery, speed, relay and skill. But this boxer from the north had never seen Western boxing and couldn't find the right way to break it . Even I have never fought against him. You can see that his pace has been disrupted by the speed and power of Western boxers. 1234 Hey 56 7 Ah ha ah ha ah ha 12345 6 78 Don't fight , hit him, don't fight, don't fight , ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah , ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah , ah, what are you doing, what are you eating, what are you eating? It's so outrageous. Wow , ah, ah, haha, take him down quickly. How dare you do this ? It's so bullying . It 's so bullying. Take it off quickly and give me back the clothes . You're crazy . You're the one who beats women and beats women. Jenny, Jenny, you're okay. Come on, Jenny, the police are here, everyone, go and call me. Hahahahaha. Throw their goods into the river. Throw their goods into the river. Come on . Come on . Hahahaha. You are yeah yeah yeah. That person is not good. You should find someone strong. Oh , ah , ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, oh, no, bad luck , ah , Michael Michael Michael Michael Michael Michael Michael Michael Michael Michael Michael Michael Michael Michael Michael Hey left hey left hey left hey left hey left hey left hey get up. Ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah come up come up hammer quickly hit him hit him hit him happy go go ah ah ah good hahaha eggplant eggplant good ah come on come on this good ah haha I can beat you haha Haha, start , don't come here and hit him, hit him , hit him, hit him, revolutionaries have a bright future , real revolutionaries always look ahead, hit him well , hit him, hit him, he hears it, take action at any time, good Chinese people must stand up, China is like a rooster The sky will light up once the rooster is over, hurry up, fight well, fight well, fight well, fight Wing Chun Ip Man, let me prove that we are not traitors , I will fight , hahaha , ahhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhh okay Yeah, yeah, okay, a master, Chiang Kai-shek. Kung Fu is no longer what it used to be. I know that I walked down to Yufeng. I ate Foshan rice and drank Pearl River water. You said that I colluded with the Yankees to eat inside and outside. Kung Fu can't speak, so let Kung Fu prove everything . Yu Fengjiu asks for an edict i put shut up ah ah hey ah ah ah master ah ah master won master won great good hahahaha Master Yu just now your trick of crane-shaped centipede legs is good come again hey hey hey master Master Fu, let me go. You like to fight like a man . What are you doing ? Ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah , ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, Master Yu , I'm sorry, oh, Master , finish him off . Oh, oh , Master Yu, ah, Master Yu, Master Yu, Master Yu, Master Yu, Master Yu. Master, ah , ah, Master Yu, Master Yu, Master Yu, Master Yu, Master Yu, Master Yu, Master Yu, Master Yu, Master Yu, Master Yu , Master Yu , Master Yu, I'm sorry , let's go, Master Master, Master Yu , get out of the way , doctor, hurry up and save people, doctor , go down, go down, you can't beat me. One two, I can still fight. One two, the south hasn't said anything yet. One two , even if you beat me to death, one two , one two , I won't go down. One two, one, two, ah , ah, ah , ah , ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, well, well, well, well, what? Why don't you beat him to death yet? We are doing big things. Are you from the north sincerely cooperating ? Why don't you beat him to death quickly and withdraw ? 121212 12121 2 12 Man, man , man , man, man, man, man , man , the time is almost up. 19 9 8 7 16 black ah ah ah ah ah ah die ah die ah it's over on 1 day 1 okay ah ah ah ah ah ah man, get out of here, woman stay, if both men and women don't want to leave, then leave your life, go away, you guys chase me back and chase you back. Over here, ah ah ah, why are you arresting Yong Cheng ? Did Ru Changyi send you here ? Ahhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhh . Come on, Ah Si, he's here, don't want them to leave, it should be here, fire, Qingshan, everything is fine , go , the clouds are long , the clouds are long, go, move the gun , don't shoot, don't shoot, do n't move, don't move , don't shoot, don't shoot, do n't move, squat down, be honest , don't move , feed, don't hit, don't hit , take all the suspects away, walk away, walk fast, get up, hurry up . Is everything okay ? I'll take you to the hospital. I won't talk about this until you win. It's not too late , hey . Stop hot hot hot The motherland is fighting well , um, um, um , um, um, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha , ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha , ha, ha, ah , Qingshan, if you had been born 20 years earlier and caught up with the current troubled times , hey, I am wearing this military uniform. What are you wearing ? Commander, your words will cost the lives of my subordinates. Hahahahaha. Commander, let me go first, go, go, hahaha. Stop fighting. Be quiet. The competition is over. Don't fight anymore. Stop fighting. Everyone is on the ring. The excitement of fighting is even more lively on another battlefield. Just now the handsome Marshal has received the Telegraph 's north of Lin . The alliance is good, the telegram is good. A telegram came from the north. Marshal Lu announced the revolution and joined the Southern Alliance. Hey , a telegram came from the north. Marshal Zhang also announced the revolution. Hahaha, okay, long live daddy. There is hope for the north. Yeah, I never thought of it. Mr. Fu, yours. Marshal Zhang has already expressed his stance on joining our Southern Alliance. From now on , we will be revolutionary comrades. Why don't you stop the noise? Because now we, the North and the South, are allies. From now on, we will be revolutionary comrades. Don't fight 10,000 more. Well, well, Mr. Fu, you are really It's amazing. I, Lin Qingshan, didn't realize at first that you were here for Marshal Zhu. I want to ask you how deep your relationship with Marshal Zhu is . Do you know him well? Have you ever thought about how he will deal with you if nothing happens ? To deal with me, have you ever thought about what will happen if you and I join forces in the south? I think they can end it in a martial arts way. But don't fight anymore. Don't fight anyone. Anyone who wants to fight again will be killed. Stop fighting. This is a grand event of North-South cooperation, not a murderous competition between North and South . Wait , when you asked us to beat us , we will be obedient and we can beat you to death. You don't want us to fight to death in the ring. You sit in the box and talk and laugh . It's like playing a game to suppress us. Now you won't let us fight even if you say a word. You still want us to be friends. Commander, we will be friends, but it's because we respect each other's martial arts and make friends through martial arts. It's not up to you to decide when we do it. When do friends become enemies? We who practice martial arts all have our own dignity. Well, well said, well said. Well said, well said. Well, I have seen through the faces and so-called politics of you people in Guangzhou this time . Now I just want to be real. For the revolution, for the Northern Expedition, fight , fight, fight , fight, fight, fight, fight , fight, fight, fight, fight, fight, fight, fight, fight, fight, fight, fight, fight, fight, fight , fight, fight , fight, fight , fight , fight , fight , fight , fight , yeah, yeah, yeah hot dick , man, man, ah , ah, ah, ah , ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah , ah , ah , ah, ah , ah, ah, ah, you fight Master Yu, you avenge Master Yu , you cut off his hands and feet. Yes , one , two, one, two, one , two, one, two , get up , get up, get up, 121212121212121212 121212121212 12 12 12121212121212 The five tigers in the north are just like this , boy, don't run to protect him , stop , stop, who are you? I tell you, not only Ip Man can defeat you in the south, you I know Wing Chun , oh, no, no, little brother, if you have something to do, tell me slowly. My name is Ah Si. Remember this name, I can beat you too . Damn ah , I don't want you . Stop it. Stop fighting . If you lose, you lose. Ah, the unknown people don't need to know. Jiang Sheng, are you leaving? Let's go. Don't leave . Don't leave. Don't leave. I'm going to beat them to death. Beat them to death . Why do you want to fight him? Don't think that only Ip Man can learn your kung fu. I don't care about stealing and burning. I also beat Jiang Sheng. Why bother with you? I want you to know that your son is not a waste. Ah, why do you want to cut off his hand? If he hurts others , I will hurt him ten points. Where are you going? Don't worry about me. If you follow me again , either you will die or I will die . Ah, is it okay ? Ah, Commander of Protection, don't go up and cause trouble for them. Go, ah , ah, don't shoot. Don't even shoot . Beat them to death . I don't believe that my hundreds and thousands of soldiers can't defeat you two Wing Chun . Yeah , yeah, yeah. Come on, don't run. Follow me.Hui Qu Wo Rang Ni Pao Wo Rang Ni Pao A Ha Ha A A A A A A A A A A A Bao Gao Da Dao Dui Ji He Wan Bi Hao Gei Wo Yong Dao Hen Hen De Kan Shi Po Qiang Shi Fu Ni Zou A Wo Bu Xiang Qian Lian Ni Wo Bu Xiang Ni I can't even find money to spend. I don't even think about going back alive today to kill together. Don't think that after learning a few tricks from the man named Liang, you can climb on the master. Come with me, let's see if you are faster in Wing Chun or I am faster with bullets . Drive me out, I go, sit quietly and do the housework. Outsiders should not interfere with Head Tong's incident about the sickle. The girl just said that I do not support either of you. I just hope that you can resolve this conflict . I think this is also the case. Qiu Feihe, the old man's original intention , please ask Master Ye to tell me who will win in the competition with you and who will take the sickle. You are not qualified to compete. It is also a way. But I hope that after the competition, all conflicts can be resolved. You should work together to revitalize Youshen Baguazhang. Master Ye, I have I'm giving you face. You shouldn't push yourself too far. Get out of the way. It seems that you have decided to stand up for him. I just want to help this little girl get a chance. If you can take 10 slaps from me , I will give him this opportunity to accept the offer and wait for you to compete. When you win, it will naturally belong to you, and it belongs to you openly and openly, Master Ye. I heard you right , right ? Is there any martial arts contest ? The vicious tactics used to kill my granddaughter are logically my fault. You should slap me to death , but I am still alive and want to find out the real murderer. Comrades, if Jian Yun is still alive , I think what he wants to see is the real truth. The murderer has been caught. He doesn't want us to fear each other and kill each other. He wants you to be a grandpa that he really likes. Hey, I 'm confused. Master Ye, I have something to tell you . No need to say it. No, this matter is very important. Comrades, I know this. You must not interfere in this matter . Why didn't you wait for him to finish? Ask if there is any conspiracy in this. Is there a conspiracy? And I have already seen it. He is here, selling newspapers, selling newspapers, selling newspapers, selling newspapers. The new appointment. Vice Mayor Lin Qingshan came to give me a copy to thank you for selling newspapers. New Vice Mayor Lin Qingshan took office and came to give me a copy of the newspaper. Thank you to Vice Mayor Lian for taking a step to speak. Oh, Master Tong, I have taught you everything I should have taught you. Why still nothing? Defeat Ip Man, it was you who killed Qiu Jianyun. Yell at me. Why should I hurt him? I have always wondered why you want to help me. The technique you designed to let Qiu Jianyun trap Ip Man turned out to be for yourself. Master Tong , these are all your reasoning, right? Knowing that Master Qiu Jian went back to tell Ip Man the truth , he killed him. He was only a 16-year-old child. You were too cruel. You said that I had to provide evidence when killing people . You and Ip Man had a good son. Why did you mess with me? Come on , haha , you are really despicable and shameless. You, you, you can't beat me, so come here to trick me. Dangtang Youshen Baguazhang is one of the best sects in Kinmen. How could you do such despicable and shameless deeds ? Lin Qingshan, don't do it again. You're just kidding. I came to you today just to ask you to kill me. You want to fight me. I know you have a problem, but please forgive me. Haha, it seems that you have also been influenced by Ip Man, right? I admire him and I have decided to let him participate in the World Nations. In the Martial Arts Tournament , my skills are inferior to others. If I give way, that means you have decided to go against me with them, right? I advise you to die in my hands and still retain a little face as the deputy mayor of Tianjin. If you want to go to the ring, you will definitely do it. Because of your scheming, Ip Man was beaten to the ground. Justice is in the heart of the people. The sky is like a mirror. Hahahahaha. In my dictionary, Lin Qingshan, the old man can only win and never lose . Hahaha, how can you defeat Ip Man? I advise you not to show your shame on the ring. Okay. Then let me open your eyes first , old man. It seems that you are no better than your granddaughter. Do you know what kung fu is? Tell him that there are green mountains beyond the mountains. I will not let you die today. The purpose is to let you watch a good show, ladies and gentlemen. Welcome everyone. On the left is Ivanov from Russia. On the right is Ogurien from Japan. Now let's show off all your skills. Are you ready to start? Hahaha. Maori war weapons originated from primitive times and are ancient tribes. It is a martial art developed to intimidate ferocious beasts to resist foreign invasion . The movements such as bending the heart and beheading are very shocking. Let's wait and see. Are you ready ? Hahahaha, get up and beat him to death . Let's continue. Master Ye's dancer's demeanor is really admirable. Martial arts competition is a grand exchange event between martial artists from various countries. Our Chinese nation will not take advantage of others' danger. We will continue. Stand at attention, long live , long live, fight, Xiao Liyuan is not as good as others, admit defeat, Vice Mayor Lin, come on, Vice Mayor Lin, fight well , fight him well , well, well, well, well, well, okay , okay , Qingshan, you can't compare to that Ip Man, he is better than you, you should Are you willing to do it? Do you know that I am better than you in business , English, I am better than you in French, Russian, dancing, playing with guns, industry and agriculture, I am better than you , I can even drive a car better than you. You are not worth mentioning the revolution. What have you done? Your only pride is Is this some martial arts? Today I want to beat you in martial arts in front of everyone. I want Yongcheng to see that choosing you in this life is his biggest mistake . Your move is really powerful . Let me tell you. Tong Zhanpeng, I gave it to him. It was your idea to ask his granddaughter to come to you to ask for your forbidden technique. He didn't expect that this little girl was useless and actually helped you. Then I had to kill him. I just broke his neck like this, and this is how he died. That's right. You have guessed this. I have already used this move to break Yongsheng's neck. Now it is your turn. I will break your neck in front of so many people at the All Nations Martial Arts Conference and let Yongchun disappear forever in your hands. You still don't understand. Do you know why you lost? Do you still remember what I told you? Li Qingshan, if you dare to hurt Yongchang, I will never let you go. Now you should know that I can't do it . Xiao Baihe, you are the military commander. If the spies don't surrender, don't shoot . You are our own people . Come on , hurry up and capture the living ones. Come on. You are leaving quickly. Come on. Brother Fu, please leave quickly. You have to leave. Let's go together. Brother Fu, Ye Wen, hands it to Fu Zhengyun. This is more important than life. Go, go. Catch Fu Zhengyun for me. Go away, boy, you have done a great job. but Sayuri If you break the law, you will be punished according to the crime. Captain Ye can be executed . Dad, please don't shoot. Grandpa, Captain. Dad, please do n't. Long live China. Long live Sayuri. You hate me . Sayuri. Everyone has seen. This is the fate of a spy . Sayuri has set an example for you . I am here to remind everyone who wants to do it in the future. As Sayuri's second captain, Captain Ye will execute him on the spot and will never let him go . Why do you want to kill me? Then next time, you won't let Sayuri die in vain. You still have to send the information out. Get in the car. After I fuck you, I will go home. Go , um, um, who are you ? Why did you cripple my leg and then heal it for me? What kind of kung fu is this ? Do you want to learn ? Will you teach me? If you want to learn, just follow. If I can beat you, I will naturally learn it. Well, if you can't figure it out now, fight me again. Master, I figured it out. Then try the Japanese left spin and the Japanese right spin. Your martial arts are really common. You have them in China. If you don't have more powerful kung fu, don't you know that everyone in this world should be heroic? If you want to be a martial arts master, you have to find yourself and persist in your beliefs to defeat everyone. Do you want to know who I am? You want to know me. Who is it? The person standing in front of you is not the master , not Madman Ye, not anyone. He is just your opponent. He wants to kill you. If I had been crueler just now, you would have died. Master, I was wrong. Remember, you can only have yourself in your heart at any time. There can be no other people. What you see in front of you is not a human being. He is just your opponent. If you don't kill your opponent, he will kill you . Kill him. Kill him. Kill him. Hahahahahaha. Kill him. Kill him. Hahahaha. Kill him. Kill him. Kill him , hahahaha, kill him , hahaha, kill him , hahahaha. Get a big set of clothes under your remote control. Russell, hurry up, don't move, don't move, don't move, don't move, don't move, don't move. Fu Zhengyun canceled the plan and did not enter. City, but Crazy Ye was killed. How could it be possible that Crazy Ye is dead ? It was Ip Wen who was surrounded in Tiancheng Hotel. He and Ah Si teamed up to kill Crazy Ye. Hahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahaha , where is Ip Man? We arrested him and played with me. I played to death, I won, I won, Ip Man, I am not Ip Man, hum, you fight me and I will kill you, Ip Man , hahahaha , let's do it, why did I become Ah 4? I will fight with you every night, making you a target. You are rubbish. Lin Qingshan is a martial arts prodigy. He only knows Ip Man by looking at X-rays. What do you think? Look at Ah Si. He is the real martial arts prodigy. He can break the opponent's huh in a fight. They're keeping lord. You can't even beat me, but you still want to beat Ip Man. You're rubbish. He used a Japanese reverse glove. His fingers pressed down on his arms and legs, and he couldn't move immediately. Go , sit up, get up, get up, man, get up quickly , get up, put him down. Man , get up, put him down , hide , hit him, get up , hold on, hold on, hit him, get up, get up, get up , get up, hit him , get up, hit him, don't move, take it off, you what you what you what you what Wing Chun Ip Man China People will definitely defeat the invaders. People, please pay attention . People, please pay attention. Japan announces unconditional surrender. Japan announces unconditional surrender . Justice ultimately prevails over power. Unity wins peace. detonate explosives throughout the city. Detonate explosives throughout the city. Detonate the explosives in the whole city. Detonate the explosives in the whole city immediately. Are you still the imperial army? No , we are victorious . We are victorious.