Cut the paper foil to fit a square No. 2 pan Place the mold on top of the paper foil and use the corners to mark it. Fold all the parts where marks have been made. Cut out the four corners. In this way, you'll have a square frame-shaped aluminum foil cut-out. 3spoons(30g) of milk Unsalted butter(40g) 1/3teaspoon(2g) of salt Melt in the microwave for 20 seconds twice. Let any unmelted butter melt with the residual heat, then set aside to cool. 3eggs (150g) Separate the yolk from the white, being careful not to break the yolks. If even a small amount of yolk gets into the whites, they will not whip properly. Whip the egg whites on medium speed. When large bubbles form, stop whipping and add the sugar. 2/3cup(90g) of sugar Add 2/3cup(90g) of sugar in three times, not at one time. Continue whipping on medium speed until the large bubbles become dense. Add the second of sugar. Whip until smooth without visible bubbles. Then, add the remaining sugar. Whip until a lumpy texture forms. When the foam rises abundantly, stop whipping and check the texture. It is done when the mixture forms stiff, sharp peaks. 3egg yolks (45g) Whip the yolks on low speed. Be careful not to overwhip, as this can cause the meringue to become thin and lose its consistency Whip just until no traces of the white remain. 1cup(100g) of cake flour 2/3teaspoon(3g) of baking powder 3teaspoons(10g) of cocoa powder. Sift the cake flour, baking powder, and cocoa powder together. Mix until there are no lumps and powder ingredients are no visible. Be careful not to overmix as the foam can disappear quickly. Take a small part of the batter and mix it with the melted butter and milk. Once mixed, add it back into the main batter. Thoroughly mix from the bottom to the top using a spatula. If not mixed well, the batter can dense, if overmixed, the foam may collapse, resulting in a lower sheet cake height. The dropped batter is flow smoothly and little bit of pile up. Pour the batter into the mold. Use a chopstick to ensure the smoothness and uniformity of the batter. Tap the mold on the table three times to remove large air bubbles. Remove the cake from the mold immediately after baking, and let cool completely. Once cooled, seal it to prevent it from drying out. You can use it right away, or let it mature at room temperature for a day. If left at room temperature for a day, the cake will develop richer flavor and a moister texture. Making chocolate ganache : 2/3cup of dark chocolate(60g) 1/3cup of whipping cream(60g) Melt by microwaving for 20seconds twice. Let any unmelted chocolate melt with the residual heat. If mixed well, let it cool at room temperature until it is lukewarm Making cake syrup : 3tablespoons of sugar(30g) 1/3cup of water (60g) Melt by microwaving for 1minute. Let any undissolved sugar melt with the residual heat and then let it cool. Cut off the edges for a softer texture. Only peel off a thin layer of the crust from the top. because it needs to be ground into fine powder. Please slice off only the protruding part. The bulging part will be used for making cake powder. Slice the rest of the cake in half. This will make four cake layers. Stack two layers and cut them vertically into eight equal parts. Cut into eight equal pieces in the opposite direction. Because the pieces are small, they can be used regardless of the size of the container. Making Castella Powder Do not press hard, but gently rub and shake it off. Whipping Chocolate Cream 2 cups of whipping cream(360g) 3 tablespoons of sugar(30g) 2 tablespoons of cocoa powder(15g) Start whipping at a low speed to prevent the cocoa powder from flying around. Once the cocoa powder is evenly mixed into the cream, whip at high speed. Once the cream thickens and starts to increase in volume, whip on low speed. When deep whip marks begin to form, check the consistency of the whip. If you continue to whip at this stage, the cream may quickly separate. It's good when a firm, sharp peak forms. When mixed with a spatula, the cream should be smooth and creamy, When shaped, it should maintain its form without collapsing. 260ml clear dessert cup. First, sprinkle ganache on the bottom of the cup. Put the cakes in the cup, filling it without any gaps. Coat syrup on the sheet to keep them moist. Add cream and tap the cup and the cream fills the cup completely. Layer the ganache, cake layers, syrup, and cream in that order in the cup. If you apply too much syrup, it can make the texture too moist. Just coat the top enough to keep it moist. Fill the last cream in a convex shape at the top. Press the cream lightly to fill the edges and remove any gaps. Smoothly frosting the cream by rotating the cup and using a knife. The frosting cream should be finished not too high. As you go, clean off any cream from the knife to keep it neat. Frosting it just enough to be round and smooth without any sharp edges. Wipe the edges with a kitchen towel for a clean finish. First, lightly cover the entire surface with the powder. Then, press the powder firmly to cover the cream completely. Gently press with your hands to ensure the powder adheres to the cream without falling off. Push the edges inward to clean. Use the same method to make chick cupcakes as well. Layer the whipped cream - cake layers - and syrup in that order. Refer to the 'more information' section for the recipe. If you don't have a piping bag, you can use a spoon. Draw on cooking paper and let it set before using. Feel free to draw the face according to your preference. It would be helpful to draw the bear's ears can be inserted and infix in cupcake. draw the chick's feathers so that they can be inserted and secured similarly to how you would draw the bear's ears Drawing the beak with a three-dimensional effect looks cute. Sprinkle with chocolate to ensure it sticks well. Please decorate the chick cupcakes as well. Fluffy fur and three-dimensional is like a teddy bear so cute. The layers of ganache and cream look delicious. The chick is so cute it's almost a pity to eat it. But it looks too delicious. Chocolate cake has a flavor that everyone can enjoy, regardless of personal preferences. Once you start eating, you can't stop because it's so tasty. The first eat, immediately gives you the rich and creamy flavor. It's deliciously addictive, making you want to keep eating without getting tired of it. It's convenient to store and eat when you attach spoon to cup lid. I bought the cup and spoon from Daiso (cheap Korean store). This packaging would be perfect for a picnic. Thank you so much watching for video today.