As you might know Aliexpress is a great place to But then again also lots of garbage gets promoted series to test all the Aliexpress items I think check them out or simply ignore them. This video is sponsored by Elektor and Arduino Elektor magazines for years now because they come electronics. That is why I was very excited to create a special guest edited version of the projects and tutorials with Arduino boards If you are interested then I am happy to tell the magazine for only 1EUR to my followers. So Now the first item I got this the category ,,Why does this even exist?". big spiral like copper conductor that acts like an create a rectangle waveform for the antenna and By checking with my oscilloscope we can 9.5Hz which we can fine adjust down to 7.8Hz. description advertises with and as you Generator and you can get it for around 9EUR. was also kind of hard to pick up supposedly can read all about on the backside of the PCB. frequencies around you reduce insomnia, So I actually set it right next to my bed tell you that the only difference for So yeah I didn't pick this product for its mains sadly though after some measuring and testing is That means all in all I can not recommend there are so many 5 star ratings for it. is this lovely PCB with metal I think you already saw that this is get one for around 13EUR so not that cheap. traditional diode which not only let's also comes with a noticeable voltage drop. current we get a power loss that But In comparison if we do the same 1A we can measure a voltage drop of only 0.27mV Of course as you can see the ideal diode still one direction and the only real disadvantage of above 9V because it uses additional And during my tests that seems to be correct either increases drastically or the At this point I was already thinking applications I could use this diode but then not to use it for rectifier circuits. me to try it out and as you can see already current flow at all meaning this ideal But then again there are other use cases for my two 100W solar panels. diodes I could save around 4W of power So in all I think even though they are a bit it if you got a fitting application for them. why not try some wind power next with The one I chose outputs 12V and at first sight useable wind speeds and best of all the included battery should also work with low wind speeds. after assembling the wind generator, getting hooking up all the electronics I tried and measured pretty much everything charge up my battery even a tinsy tiny controller lit up at a rather fast speed. such a rotation speed and I get absolutely faster then this is a product I can sadly for it because its quality is not half bad. product a friend of mine mentioned It is a so-called Flying Pen and After unpacking it we can open up its lid and all the parts of the pen in order to ultimately And as you would have guessed this pen lets which makes it possible to easily connect In theory that does sound awesome but better control of the spool and thus to melt the varnish around the wire to But after a bit of practice I can certainly is why I would definitely recommend it OK next I got myself this black box with two much the same my kWeld can do and that is And so far my spot welder was always a bit thus I was happy to find this black box According to its description it comes So before using it I had to charge it up to the charging current that should take a while. After 3 hours the charging was done and it to power it up and then push it 6 more And all I had to do to create a spot onto the metal and the device automatically a short amount of time to create the weld. enough to make all the spot welds for this that prove that the welds truly penetrated not So in comparison I think my Kweld the Aliexpress ones are definitely useable. are not half bad either I would highly recommend Now I already partly presented the next pack was part of it and it is this DIY Makita Long story short; using it to create my own had lying around was pretty easy to do. the charging worked just fine as well as using So I would definitely recommend this cells because if you buy them extra then And by adding such an adapter to the battery we finally get to the last product which is this If we look inside then we can find a PCB the battery and this PCB is pretty much the just in another form factor. to hook up the Makita Battery pack up to But sadly the 100W of power was too something explode on it while charging So yeah it seems like power regulation is though definitely comes with and that is why I And with that being said my Aliexpress Haul is with most of the featured products. interesting items in my back pocket As always if you enjoyed the show consider Also don't forget to like, share, Stay creative and I will see you next time.