2011 was one of the most important While there's no single "big" event, or the Evolution of Combat 2011 saw a lot of major events Jagex first got the idea for EOC combat council at RuneFest. The Golden Scythe drama. Nex, the Loyalty Programme, RuneScape's first fully voice acted quest... HaxUnit stole the Rotten Potato. Jagex released the Bot Nuke, I've already made videos about a number but there's also one significant event and hasn't really been more than One of the most infamous A video simply titled "Is this the good deal?" by a Player Moderator named Jiblix. A lot of people consider it to be the And it's easy to think that, But we don't just tell you what you I don't make a video unless there's at that you won't find anywhere else on the topic. So, let's see just how And speaking of important stuff, to the futuristic world of Mech Arena. Ever wanted to play a console shooter, Well now you can, with this team-based, 5v5 tactical shooter that's got everyone covered. Like skill-based, competitive play? We got you. Only like to play a quick casual match We got you. Don't like mechs? I know you're lying, everyone likes mechs. No, really. The game has tons of customisation features, and send it to slaughter all of your opponents. Here's the mech I made. It kind of looks like a chicken And just like chickens in real life, Now that's what I call a clucking good time. Take on foes in Control Point Capture, 5v5 and 2v2 Deathmatches, your friends by your side. Or if you don't have any friends, It's alright. I'll be your friend. There are a ton of special events happening this month and Easter events for all the normal people. The game just keeps growing, with huge rewards to boot. I don't even know where to Now I know what you're thinking. The game is free to play on Android and iOS, but you want a little extra So, just between you and me, here's my personal link to It contains a Milspec skin, 500 I don't just show this to anyone, you know. And hey, if you really want to feel free to add me in-game. Maybe we'll play a game or two. I've always preferred robots tearing So what are you waiting for? The links are there, get playing. Maybe you'll even have a match with me Now that's what I call living in the future. To understand why this video was such a big deal, Jiblix started his RuneScape adventure in 2005, drawn to the skiller community a group of players embarking on a levelling their skills and beating ever gaining combat exp. Jiblix quickly found himself raising many skills to level 99 What really made Jiblix stand out, however, As a skiller, he was uniquely positioned quests and train skills, speaking from experience instead of Jiblix's friendly and outgoing personality was well known to everyone and shone through in the videos he made making him a well-known and well-loved member and a name that Jagex very quickly Jagex Moderators would occasionally appear playing alongside him or attending his parties. This close connection to the staff meant that, he became a Player Moderator. He seemed like an ideal candidate for the role. In fact, he was also made a Forum Moderator, who were Dual Moderators with privileges both ingame It's kind of hard to express just how on the greater community. Everyone knew his name, and he had a very nice account as part Other skillers were ecstatic to see him succeed and his name certainly ranked among such as Zzzamorak and Pure Kq Pax. Even when he failed his Skiller in 2010, when training the brand new skill, Dungeoneering, he remained a popular figure in the community and finally started levelling all of What was originally a source of great despair as he eventually achieved 99 Dungeoneering It's kind of funny that he hit this on because it's kind of a "calm Jiblix was at the height of his popularity, and any comment he made on the state of And, just a day later, on August 15th 2011 Mod MMG: It's incredible. We're surprised. Mod Mark: Awesome. Mod MMG: We're thankful... In 2009, Jagex won the in the Golden Joysticks. In fact, they won it by a lot with over a million votes across managed to crash the site when voting This was a great morale boost for the company. People patted themselves on the back, making such a good game, and got back to work. In 2010, Jagex won the award a second time, 2 years in a row. And, to be fair, they probably were there were a few big game companies but it was still a fairly small landscape, best talent backing them. RuneScape definitely had its problems, cared about the world they were building, And as a thank you to the entire community, for players to use. With 2 emotes, one for each award. Maybe they'd even add a third Well, 2011 rolled around, and However, this time, it was best free to play game. Jagex probably didn't think much of this, See, while the staff behind the game had a lot of problems. And a lot of bots. While Jagex had put a lot of their eyes were mostly on the with the free version left to fester. A nd because of that, bots had grown out of control, dominating any semi-profitable automating it into oblivion. Jagex made an announcement in July and want to make the game more enjoyable all while more bots continued to flood So when Jagex wanted people to vote for them players were certainly ready to make their voices heard - but not in Enter Jiblix. As a significant community member, he wanted to see it do as well as it could. He wanted to see Jagex do as well as they could. But to vote for them as the best free-to-play game the glaring issues under the rug, serious matter that they definitely needed But despite being a community figure who he wasn't just going to tell people to vote no. He wanted them to know exactly what He wanted to spread awareness. So, armed with a screen recorder and basic some of the bot-infested sites and before compiling it together the most infamous RuneScape videos of all time. The video spreads across While Jiblix only had a few hundred subscribers it doesn't take long for this scathing display and Jiblix gained several thousand The comments are almost calling him brave for standing up to Jagex at a time when most other player moderators The forums are ablaze with with Jiblix himself gracing the threads with a green coat of paint to further express One of Jiblix's JMod friends asking him to take the video down claiming that it would be in his Jiblix refuses, wanting his voice to be heard. It doesn't take long for him to be A lot of people see this as some sort of great Player and Forum Moderators ARE volunteer They're not obligated to let if they're publicly disparaging the company. And with an unprecedented the staff, it's only natural that the higher ups were calling But hey, when has the community ever let of a good riot? It was time to head to World 66, Falador is overridden with rioters, blending into one another. Some are shouting for Jagex having been blissfully unaware of just Others are shouting for Jiblix to get his doing a damn better job than everyone else. Others are shouting for people to so they can be notified when the Jiblix Regular players and even player moderators expressing support for him The community seems almost entirely united with Jiblix taking the hit so that As always, the riot fails to and slowly dies down as players get bored and However, "Is this the good deal?" for a shift in player attitude Jiblix enjoyed a brief period of stardom, largest RuneScape fansites, that September. He also continued to upload videos, golden days of the game, With a few unstopped phishers Now, I know what you're wondering: No. After the disastrous PR incident, to barely scraping third place, A fact that Jiblix gleefully promoted on In fact, the Golden Joysticks had gone so contacted by the awards organisers about their playerbase as their fervent community had been to tell people not to vote for Jagex. The players celebrated! They'd sent their message to Jagex loud and clear. A small "we're working on it!" wasn't enough. The bot problem was And with RuneFest 2011 right around the corner, real life without having a solution ready to go. So right before the event, with botting being defeated It's a nice story: their powers to bring everyone together and forces Jagex to deal A real feel-good tale, right? Big shame that this isn't actually what happened. This is going to come as a big shock to a but while Jiblix's video was really good at it changed practically nothing If you've got any experience with software you might have noticed something fishy The bot nuke was a HUGE it took an unparalleled genius to beat it with almost every other That's not something that you can start That's because the bot nuke was The reason Jagex had been so dismissive of the They couldn't just up and say "We're working on a project that will because that gives the botmakers the warning You need to catch them off guard to stand Which is exactly what Jagex It's kind of like when you see vigilantes hunting only to find out that they've messed up a ready to take them down for good. It seems like you're doing a good thing, but all you've done is cause trouble Remember the JMod that messaged Jiblix When you frame the whole thing as It's easy to see that message as some sort But, in reality, it was likely just a mod while they were working on a solution and let Jiblix keep both his moderator Now don't get me wrong I'm not excusing Jagex for not tackling they absolutely shouldn't have ever let As sad as it is to say, Jiblix's video the bot nuke into existence. All it really did was cause the and to guarantee that they lost the With their loss at the Golden Joysticks, everyone never saw a new emote. At RuneFest that year, handed out to a small selection of players which led many people to believe it was the Golden Joystick Awards that had This was later debunked by the That being said, Jiblix's video did their opinions. While Player Moderators had historically been more and more felt able to express In November 2011, a few months after the incident, had his own Jiblix moment when he for making the hiscores a members only feature dedicated free players who had put in immense While Jagex did say that they supported align with theirs, history with Ken losing his moderator status for bad mouthing Jagex and not an awful lot being Thank you all so much for watching. It's kind of funny thinking how so convinced that Jiblix was pretty much directly when the truth is completely different. Kind of like the story of the Climbing Boots Now that'd make for an interesting video. Anyway, that's a story for another time. My name is Will Miss It