The whole state of Alabama is on edge We have some breaking news about a missing Nothing brings a city together We are highly concerned about where little Kamille, It's like a needle in a haystack. You see this gorgeous little girl just disappear My faith was gone. We were living the nightmare here in Birmingham. Birmingham is a quite beautiful city. It's called the Magic City. It's a small town, And I mean a flavor Everybody knows each other. So it's only state, You got to go. I first moved to Birmingham back in 2002. The first stop my wife and I visited and basically baptized ourselves These are the actual bars You have racial issues back, It takes time to appreciate the richness how much it means to so many people, as much as you might think Kamille cupcake McKinney is the picture perfect up in the city of Birmingham Have no. I always had the cupcake I mean, a daughter. You know, there's something sweet. Big brown, nice big smile. A lot of very colorful personality. Very colorful. We're really. She was my cell page key. Like, if she do something like, because, you know, they're so cute. You know. On October 12th, 2019, Camille's mother who lives in the Tom Brown Village, east of downtown Birmingham. Now I proceed to the house, Camille actually was able to play with her About 20 30 minutes. It started to get dark. I remember my son Amaro and I told him I was like, And in the middle of me finishing up My son just is is, you know, forget like he the way he was in the house, confined. He was just like, mom, I came back, okay? Okay. Let's go. We have some breaking news to tell you about a missing Officers, tell me this is a confirmed You watched the videos on TV. You don't think anything like I cannot remember a significant I've worked here. It was a huge crime scene. Birmingham police. Dozens of vehicles converged on the Tom apartment complex Where was she? Was she still in the immediate area? The FBI got involved and we launched an investigation. There was a witness to this. An 11 year old boy tells police drive up a male, get out of the SUV, pick up the three year old little girl, What we understand is that this someone lured cupcake and her cousin over to a vehicle, promising them candy, Camille into the vehicle, the vehicle Nobody recognized that vehicle. It was a Sequoia. They also had access not only in the Tom Brown Village area, gas stations, businesses, cars. And so they were gathering Any information about this? Even the slightest clue. Minutes really do count. Take a look at this beautiful little girl. We hear about custodial kidnapings Those are probably once a month. You know, We had So because the police were so adamant the first few days Initially, everyone's is a is a suspect. And you don't rule out the the parents Once we heard the senior detectives describing the facts as they knew them, A number of people have been out here searching and praying day Cupcake McKinney. When you couple the picture of cupcake not to just tug at your heart strings Birmingham Police Chief Patrick Smith says all available resources This doesn't just affect Camille's family or the neighborhood she was in, I kind of imagine Dominic Kamille McKinney, also known as cupcake, It's a hard line swallow She's a good little girl. She's sweet. She's really lovely. But I like cupcake. If anybody can find anybody a cupcake, I'll do anything to get cupcake. Baby. Birmingham police A dark colored, older model There was an hour and one call from someone that believed that matched the description leaving the scene of the apartment complex 14th, was just two days Police did announce that they had taken and the two persons of interest, Patrick Stallworth and Derrick They had a romantic relationship. Evidence was obtained that allows our detectives that we have in custody. They did announce some charges against Patrick Stallworth regarding child That charge had nothing to do of Kamille McKinney, The second person we have in custody is Derrick Orisha Brown. We have a probation revocation The original charge for her happened to be kidnaping. She had taken her three children The community had a sense of relief, hesitant relief, thinking believe is connected to her kidnaping, It was day three. We don't we don't we don't have any. Time is very precious right now. Let the baby go. While police expanded the Amber This afternoon, Police Chief Patrick she's still in the area. On October 16th, Birmingham Birmingham Police got a tip this morning they found credible where three year But this could be Birmingham police got a tip this morning. They found credible on where three year They believe that cupcake McKinney at a location there, which is about ten, I actually was Co anchoring and they've been there now We had live crews on the scene, cameras showing officers from various agencies My feeling has been that she's here, I'm relieved by that. There was a competing TV station from a law enforcement source Yes, that Kamille McKinney had been found. A lot of people seem to feel, here, but I'm certainly I remember scrambling, trying to figure out I don't. Know. For a time, cautious This many believed was the time Maybe they knew something before Maybe they're right. Maybe. People are waiting to see if the three After three hours, it was revealed It was a false lead. We received information that we thought On the location of Kamille. We have not located the young lady. We want everybody to understand. Please understand. We are still searching for her. How confident are you even after an extensive search here We're very confident. We know everybody's concerned about her and we're going to keep searching. And we know this community About a week after Camille was taken, there was a vigil held at the Saint In what I just remember crying and by myself I have just sick to my stomach. They placed their hands on They prayed on her God's promises, that in the end, And they say you don't post a question They I pushed them, I let why this happened to me. What did I do? I'm a good person, you know. I don't do low down things to people, to why do you let this happen to me? My faith was gone. One day, after bonding out of jail, an attorney He's disappointed that someone is. Label him as involved While his client works in the area where the incident happened they may be able to give an alibi It became personal to everyone. Everyone kind of put themselves in the place of the parents of this child. Just watching the news If you live in Birmingham or anywhere you've been touched by the recent event, It could happen anywhere There's a lot of love that the first time I really just see me about It didn't matter your race. It didn't matter. Your religion didn't matter. We. We're all just one. So ten days after Kamille cupcake McKinney was taken from the Tom Apartments, the Birmingham to announce an update in the case, And at that point, when you saw him front of the camera, They're going to either tell us they found Ten days after Kamille Cupcake McKinney was taken from the Tom Police Department held a press conference Very big update in the case. But our investigators, tirelessly 24 hours a day to locate this young child. We were looking through 1213 tons of trash. Stan Ruffin was actually a supervisory special agent with the FBI It was determined that were in a apartment complex near the persons of Interest apartment. A lead was developed of cupcake body in one of these dumpsters. Cynthia Bowlby, the case A truck to the landfill She had to stop the driver and say, We need to search it. The sun was going down, and soon we were So I decided at that point to Typically, you know, a supervisory agent I was in the pile of trash and I saw what I thought was a doll. So I proceeded to go closer to the to to what I saw and, discovered that it was, it was the remains of a cupcake. Definitely a tragic update A body believed to be little Kamille. Cupcake McKinney. Found tonight. Discovered in a dumpster. When we found that child, not a dry eye. We took a moment. Everybody stopped what they were doing. We had several moments of quiet. We found this evening remains of a child Say, I was just in denial because this wasn't what I. What I wanted. A year from now, But like I said, my emotions. I was mentally gone. Like. I feel helpless. It was heartbreaking. It shook the community to the core But I think it was just murder. The hopes of Vega didn't matter. I'm going to come back home safe and just know they discarded her This is tough. It's a tough moment for our city. Tomorrow we will be screening warrants for kidnaping and capital murder against Patrick Locating the remains were the last pieces of the puzzle The capital murder charges and the kidnap Matching that, you. Killed the little girl. When Patrick Stallworth and Derrick Brown You can see the look on their face According to warrants read out loud in court, Kamille McKinney which is the same day she went missing Warrants also stated FBI phone tracking records put Stallworth at the scene FBI analysis found the DNA on a plastic mattress cover. The toxicology reports It's just unspeakable, the things that she went through prior to her leaving this world. So after the charges were announced against Patrick there was either a birthday there was a major gathering and family. And. Balloon releases, you know, vigils, remembering what she meant to the family The story just did not die, Patrick Stallworth trial was first. And that transpired in the fall of 2022. I took the stand during the Stallworth Trial stand, Ruffin said. He had investigated a lot of high profile and no probe before had affected him so personally. It just brought back a lot of emotions. And shortly after discovering the remains. Any time I would see it through a four year Both juries did not take very long and Patrick Stallworth of the fatal I can say, by the way, Jump on him right there. I think they would've. The minute they were convicted of those They were never getting out of prison. The only thing that's good about the situation is somebody else. For the last 1237 days, April, Thomas has lived a mother's In your eyes. How evil are these two? They are abomination. Abomination to the scum of the earth. The things they did, I mean, were human. Who would do something like they? They might look like us on the outside. But as aside. And that's when you become an abomination. In the year since the death of Kamille police launched Safe Passage to ensure what happened to McKinney We station community members so that kids are able to walk, freely to and from school. Honestly, I feel like this like one of my biggest mistakes that beat myself up about today was being comfortable. We I was raised. You know, he's playing for it. Go away. Mommy. Parents. They might sit in the living room you know, somebody's going to shake. And at some point and, you know, like, at one point, I just. Got called a wrong place while they. This could have happened to anyone. The bad people involved held accountable Help your children. And I think now we're going to go ahead full coverage of Kamille, cupcake McKinney That moment was behind her. I want to come out not just to show I ain't never seen that like it. Big picture. The Birmingham community over the time of cupcake McKinney's That's the most lasting impact.