Translator: Quan Sun Thank you. Thank you. Beyond boundaries. What a theme, huh? Now, when I think of boundaries, I think of rules, regulations, And I think of the parents, who hold us accountable That's not a bad thing. Yeah, I know, if you're like me, I need someone holding me accountable But beyond boundaries I think of those leaders, those teachers, who inspire us to do more than we have to, to do it not because they tell us, I would like to share with you what the research says And not just for other people, Here is the deal, how could we inspire There is another word. You've heard that word, right? Now, the management definition &quot;Get it done. Just get it done. With fewer resources and less time, I'm talking about feeling empowered. That's different. Feeling empowered Now, if you want to know or if your child, your student, ask them three questions. If they say yes to these three questions, And by the way, this is not based on common sense, But you've all been there, Question number one: can you do it? Do you believe you can do it? Do you have the time, to do what we are asking you to do? If you answer yes, good. Second question: will it work? Do you believe that what we're asking you Albert Bandura calls that believing that the behavior By the way, that takes education. We have to show them the data, we show them, teach them I just used the word 'education'. Is there a difference? In elementary school, Middle school: education. College: higher education. (Laughter) Then you go to industry, Training. You have your training department. Well, you know the difference. Do you want your kids to have (Laughter) And your kids might answer (Laughter) Because you know that training means That's powerful. Powerful. Have you ever heard this word It's an oxymoron, isn't it? I mean training is to watch the behavior, but online training is jumbo shrimp, legal brief, country music. (Laughter) I mean, it doesn't work. OK, so if you answer yes, third question: is it worth it? So we've had a training question, this is the motivational question. Do you believe the consequences-- B.F. Skinner taught us this: Dale Carnegie quoted that from the day you were born, everything you did was because you Consequences. Is it worth it? So you have to convince people Now, by the way, if you answer you feel competent, am I right? You feel competent You've all been there. When you feel competent you're more likely to be self-motivated. You've been there. Here is the challenge leaders, teachers. How do you inspire people Well, you give them feedback. You show them they are competent. OK. I got one more another C word: choice. Your common sense will tell you. When you believe a sense of choice in what you're doing, B.F. Skinner taught us that, too, way back in 1971. Reading that book changed my life, because I realized But sometimes I don't feel controlled. When I'm working it feels good, it feels When I'm working to avoid I feel controlled. That is called negative reinforcement. So here is a challenge, leaders: how do we get people rather than failure avoiders? First day of Introductory Psychology class - I teach two classes of 600 students, maybe some of you've been the first day I say, And 80% raise your hand. I say, &quot;Well, thanks for coming, but you are not happy campers. You probably told your friends, 'I've got to go to class. Not 'I get to go to class. You probably woke up to an alarm clock (Laughter) It's all in how you see it. It's your paradigm. It's how you communicate to others So, Ellen Langer said - and psychologists know - &quot;When you perceive choice, You're more motivated. So the deal is, for yourself be mindful of the choices you have. And talk about being a success seeker, It's all how you talk, how you communicate I got a fourth C word: community. Powerful word. Psychologists know People who perceive a sense of connection with other people, I want to recite a poem. It's called &quot;The cookie thief&quot; And as I recite this poem, - there is only two characters, put yourself in the situation. Be mindful, think about the situation OK? Here we go. A woman was waiting With several [long] hours She hunted for a book in the airport shop Bought a bag of cookies She was engrossed in her book That the man beside her [Grabbed] a cookie or two Which she tried to ignore to avoid a scene She read, munched cookies, As this gutsy cookie thief She was getting more irritated Thinking, &quot;If I wasn't so nice, With each cookie she took, he took one too When only one was left With a smile on his face He took the last cookie (Laughter) He offered her a half as he ate the other She snatched it from him This guy has some nerve, [Why] he didn't even show any gratitude.&quot; She had never known And sighed with relief She gathered her belongings Refusing to look back She boarded the plane and sank in her seat Then she sought her book As she reached in her baggage, There was her bag of cookies (Laughter) &quot;If mine are here,&quot; &quot;Then the others were his, &quot;Too late to apologize,&quot; That she was the rude one, So, where were you, when I was-- Where were you? Who's side were you on? Were you thinking independent? I don't blame you That's how we are raised. Nice guys finish last. Gotta blow your own horn. Independent. We come in this life of ours and then we can't wait We are too old to do what kids do. So that we will do that nobody else And some of us gets stuck there. I'll do it myself. I don't need you. Not good. We need each other. We need a sense of community. This independence culture that we got, OK, four &quot;C&quot; words and I think can fuel Let me tell you a story It happened over 60 years ago. My parents asked me, &quot;Hey, Scott. How would you like to get drum lessons? Oh man! Would I ever? I'm thinking of Buddy Rich Most of you guys don't know those names, In those days, the drum They had White Pearl drum sets, I had a vision: consequences. And I said, &quot;Yeah, I want So the teacher would bring I didn't have a nice drum like this. My parents bought me And they said to me, &quot;If you get better, - they are holding me accountable - teacher says you are getting better, and then a bass drum, And that was my vision, consequences. So the teacher would come in, this is how--, left hand; this is how Buddy Rich plays and then he'd do things like a flam. (Drum) Can you hear that at the back? You OK? (Drum) He would show me stuff. And when he showed me stuff, He showed me this little simple drumbeat, (Drum) And I practiced it. And I did it. He showed me a paradiddle, &quot;Listen. &quot;You go home and practice; next week, I said, &quot;Watch this.&quot; (Drumming) And I said, &quot;Watch this.&quot; (Drumming) He said, &quot;That's a double paradiddle. I am really ahead. (Laughter) I feel competent. I'm walking through Newberg High School, I see the music teacher, and he says, &quot;I've heard you're learning I said, &quot;Yeah! I'm getting good.&quot; He said, &quot;You can march in the band. Wow! That felt good. Another vision. Then the teacher comes into my-- - these are private lessons, by the way, He said, &quot;Scott! Ready to do a drum roll.&quot; I said, &quot;Of course, And he says, &quot;Watch this, Scott! (Drumming) &quot;Hmm... could you do that again?&quot; &quot;Scott. This is easy. Watch me.&quot; (Drumming) &quot;Now, you practice that, and next week, He comes back the next week &quot;Hmm... I can do a paradiddle.&quot; &quot;That's regression. Ha-ha. Week after week, Now we're talking about apathy. Now we are talking That's what psychologists call it. I remember walking and seeing the music teacher who said, &quot;So, Scott, how are you doing? &quot;Huh, not so good. You know, like adults You can be anything &quot;No. I can't do a drum roll. I've tried and I tried, And he says, &quot;Scott, when you ever Break it down. Can you do a paradiddle?&quot; &quot;Yeah!&quot; (Drumming) &quot;OK, what's the second beat?&quot; (Drumming) &quot;Yeah. Well, that's a drum roll, Geller. (Drumming) You go home and practice, - remember I was just 10 - &quot;You go 'dad and mama, dad and mama'.&quot; (Drum) It's a drum roll. That teacher came back the next week, &quot;OK, Scott. I guess I said, &quot;Watch this.&quot; (Drumming) He said, &quot;Wow! And I showed my teacher. (Drumming) I taught my teacher. 10 years old. He said, &quot;I've forgotten. (Drumming) and I forgot that it is two beats. You taught me how to teach There is a lesson there: We need to have the humility and the courage to speak up. And we need to help each other How? Give them the perception of competence. Let them perceive choice, We're all in this together. Thank you. (Applause)