(gentle music) - [Carl Sagan] Maybe it's a little early. Maybe the time is not quite promising untold opportunities, beckon. We can't help it. Life looks for life. There's a tingling in the spine, that catch in the voice, a faint sensation as if a distant memory of falling from a great height, We know we are approaching - Are we alone? Is there any other question that so relentlessly haunts our thoughts, that captures our imaginations, that gnaws at our very to the very meaning of our existence? (gentle music continues) In 1960, the late Frank Drake used the Green Bank Observatory to listen for artificial radio transmissions Tau Ceti and Epsilon Eridani. Nicknamed Project Ozma, as the dawn of modern SETI, the search for Since then, the field has with projects like Breakthrough $100 million to the endeavor. But 14 years after Project a step further using the Arecibo telescope to switch from just Rather than just SETI, this was now METI, messaging extra terrestrial intelligence. They used Earth's most to send 1,679 bits of data, which is the product of Unfolding that subprime a simple pictorial message numbers atomic numbers, and a There's something profound about that day, humanity's first attempt although it has to be said there's not much chance of anyone replying for a very long time, towards a distant globular Truthfully, the Arecibo message was largely a technical Even so, it sparked Soon after, astronomer and Nobel Laureate Martin warning that any creatures or hungry and even called for an international ban In 1989, the International a declaration stating, &quot;No response to a signal or other evidence of extraterrestrial until appropriate have taken place.&quot; And in 1995, the SETI a draft declaration that any by the United Nations General Assembly. Clearly then, many with listening to the universe but objected to broadcasting, and it's this dichotomous stance that underscores the the SETI paradox. Not to be confused with the Fermi paradox, the SETI paradox was first formalized by Alexander Zaitsev in 2006, who concluded that if no one feels the need to transmit. In essence, why do we expect if we don't? This is a hotly debated topic, the arguments to you today because this decision not just for a handful but before making up your and listen to the arguments, Detractors of METI often First, there's no prospect It would take a decade even if the nearest stars were inhabited, more likely centuries or even millennia. SETI hasn't found anything yet, but that's hardly surprising either. It's studied a tiny fraction bandwidths, times, and locations. SETI scientist Jill Tarter as akin to filling up a seeing no fish in it, and then concluding that the oceans must be devoid of life. So, the argument here would be patience, no need to start panicking into the dark when we've Just give it time. The second argument and the one most people existential risk. If other technological then they're unlikely to and could be far more advanced. That raises the prospect that they could do eliminate a civilization Now, a typical knee-jerk &quot;Why the hell would they do that?&quot; Surely, if they're more advanced than us, that means they're more maybe something more like the I mean, when was the last time that you saw Picard - Remarkable. - Of course, our science It's fiction. It's meant for entertainment. In truth, we have no idea or motives of another That's trying to guess xenopsychology. But we have to admit, at a bare minimum, that it's on the spectrum, on the range of possible behaviors. As a pointed example, consider that humans regularly eliminate without a second thought, They're just a pest that we don't want in our backyard in case they Now, most of us don't really &quot;They're a limited species,&quot; we might justify to ourselves. Removing them is just pest control or even more like a In the same way, it would be presumptuous that alien civilizations must or even recognize In the end, we may be nothing Many scientists besides against METI. Most famously, Stephen to inviting European colonizers a disastrous outcome for Indeed, rarely does one see instances in human history where of asymmetric capabilities does not lead to gross exploitation or worse. And if you'll indulge me beyond human-human interactions, human-animal interactions Perhaps the most pugnacious who once compared METI scientists to someone who cultures And scientists like and their supporters have for METI scientists to with their proposals on radio telescopes across the world being frequently blocked, well, at least for now. Indeed, to date there have been only 16 distinct deliberate messages sent out from the Earth transmitted and accumulating a few 10s of hours of transmission time altogether. So, the METI detractors have been winning the argument thus far, but A principal argument is Look, if we conclude that then why would anyone else? If so, then there's no point to SETI. And so, one might argue that, really, you can't In this way, one can think of METI as a kind of accelerator to SETI. You can go out fishing but you're gonna need a lot of patience, far quicker if you actually put something on the end of that line that Second, there is typically plenty of skepticism about the with sneer comments about They're probably very far away from us, so it's probably not worth it, or they're too enlightened We've already discussed and as I said previously, I think it's awfully of technology or the mindset I have no idea how likely or but I also don't think we can especially given the stakes, Third and final, METI proponents highlight that they probably know especially if they're from light years away. Look, directed transmissions is not the only game in town for Our orbiting satellites, and radio leakage all provide We call these technosignatures, including my own team, are developing new techniques to try and detect these from afar. Now, humanity has only been for the last century, within 100 light years or so But beyond that, the Earth as a pale blue dot in the middle of a quiescent star's liquid water zone. A bit of spectroscopy on oxygen in our atmosphere, that Earth harbors life, a from effectively anywhere In this context, METI proponents argue that they probably already know that we're here anyway, but crucially, all of those signatures are At least with METI, we have a to control what kind of information about what kind of a people we are. And who knows? Perhaps aliens respect and don't make contact unless invited to via a message like this, a kind of communications prime directive. Thomas Cortellesi recently with what he calls the continuum of At the lowest level, you have the basic which would already be of At a higher level, you have which is littered with biosignatures like the red edge from vegetation and the oxygen-rich atmosphere Then, you have the pollution, artificial lighting, all the way up to the idea In this way, METI isn't distinct and thus particularly dangerous. It's just another I think that Cortellesi but I'm gonna push back just a little bit because I think an implicit that our perception of METI part of a spectrum of similarly shared by And that's guessing their xenopsychology, something that we must always Look, for all we know, our such as atmospheric as being radically different and directed radio transmission To a xenophobic people, like receiving a letter in &quot;There's this planet called Earth. They're giant-size bipeds, and they know where we live and have just sent us a If they misinterpreted that message, our symbols of benign as symbols of war or aggression. How likely is that? I have no idea, but I don't nor indeed anyone else. When one is dealing with one has to admit our enormous ignorance about predicting the however fanciful they So, is there any hope of between these two camps One way we can tackle the problem is with game theory because, It's a game. Player one is us, humanity, either some single civilization It really doesn't matter. Each player has multiple they can pursue. First, they can just listen, Next, they can listen and broadcast, LB, which is what METI Third, they can listen and only transmit and Fourth, they could listen and then annihilate anyone such that the reception of a directed artificial as a kind of trigger for them. And fifth, they can kind by listening and broadcasting, hoping to get a reply signal and annihilate the sender. This is definitely the most pathological Splitting up the possibilities, each square here represents of two player strategies. So, for example, the top the scenario where humanity and the aliens do the same. Now, in each of these boxes, or value of that scenario So, for example, again, neither player really benefits, and so we'd say the value is zero, where we've color-coded to distinguish between We can now go ahead and under each of the 25 possible scenarios. To break this down, V1C of achieving one-way contact, whereas V2C is the value of VX is kinda dark. It's the value a civilization gets by exterminating a competitor. You could think of it that they get by killing someone off, but perhaps it's better to think of it as the value a by eliminating a competitor. And that leaves us just That is the value assigned to existence. If you get exterminated, then you lose VE. So, a negative sign is that VE is going to be more So, now, we have our payoff matrix as it's known in game theory, and the next step is to ask, &quot;What kind of game are we even playing?&quot; In a finite game, the purpose is to win and beat the competitor. In that case, we would add up than their opponent under the But really, I don't think I don't think we're driven here by trying to score more Rather, we're just trying maximize our payoff. Really, in the end, we're a so-called infinite game. - Why are you stalling, captain? - I don't want the game to end. (gentle music continues) - So, let's try to keep the game going and look at our options. To simplify things, we these lower two strategies for humanity because, after all, we do not have the capability of pursuing them, at least not until someone Further, the SETI paradox really isn't about whether to reply to a message or not but rather whether to broadcast. We can argue and debate about whether to reply to a message if and when the day comes that we actually receive something, but for now, let's just ignore it. So, for now, let's just compare representing SETI and METI. We can calculate the expected payoff of each of these two strategies by summing the individual by their respective probabilities, which is what I've appended over here. So, in conclusion, we find that the payoff of METI would exceed if we deemed that this term In other words, we have for METI proponents to win the debate. To simplify things, let's assume that V1C and V2C are approximately similar. Let's just call it VC, With a bit of rearrangement, that gives us the following inequality for METI to win. And we can even further simplify. Let's be generous to the METI that the whole bait and inherently unlikely, giving us this. Annotating back on the we have the following. METI proponents are correct if the value we assign by the value we assign less than the probability by the probability of So, the left-hand side here are in this case us for a METI program. And the right-hand side here are terms related to the receiver, in which case would be So, what does this all mean? Well, to see this, let's work Let's say, hypothetically, that as being 100 times greater than the value of making contact, VC. In that case, we would only engage in METI if we deemed that the to our message was at than the probability of If we could not conclude that, then METI would not be worthwhile doing because the risk of This equation really If you're a METI proponent, you implicitly believe If you're a METI detractor, you think that this term is greatest. In practice, these quantities definitive values, but even so I think the equation illuminates some important implications in the debate thus far, in particular, the nature of the kind of civilization that chooses to engage in METI. There's really two ways in which we can argue for One, the ratio of our existence value to contact value is decreased. Or two, the ratio of to annihilation probability is increased. Consider case one first, of humanity as the sender, in the shoes of a hypothetical Why would such a civilization Why would they deemphasize and why would they increase To me, a depressed civilization If things are dire, the a civilization's If they believe they're gonna die anyway, then there's really not much Things (laughing) can't get any worse. Just like someone diagnosed they're more willing to go out and try those risky things that they previously never Now, the chance of them receiving a reply if the end were indeed imminent. But even so, they might be They might be satisfied to know that somebody received their message even if they never pick up the reply. Why? Legacy. As our own lives end, we tend What was the point of our lives? Who will remember us after we're gone? What impact did we leave behind? Although their civilization they can at least be remembered. Someone out there would who they were, and what it was to be them, an idea that we previously I am certainly speculating here, no doubt, but I think there is a plausible argument that a tanking civilization would have less to lose by engaging in METI. And if you accept that, then It raises the prospects that, if we ever do it might be more likely from a civilization, a Let's leave our depressed civilization and consider the other an extremely advanced civilization, an ancient one with immense capabilities and who has already made contact with many, many other civilizations. In this case, the existential value is presumably still a large number, but the risk of external either by spreading out to or simply the ability However, the value of making to have diminished for them here as well. First contact is undoubtedly a historic, society-changing 10th contact, 1,000th contact? By the law of diminishing that the value that they gain as they advance, becoming almost Yet more, their development that there's exceedingly through contact over Maybe if they're a little they could be motivated by but extreme disparity After all, we rarely try in order to help them We would simply study For me, this case is a as to whether they'd Yes, they're less likely to lose, but there's also less to gain. You know, ultimately, it really about the balancing act of loss aversion and Each day, we all essentially We could stay in our homes, never step out for fear or we could accept the risk and live a more meaningful, rich life. Why do I fly an airplane? (laughing) Why do I drive fast cars or do anything else risky? The risk is always there, but what is the point of Maybe some civilizations that existence in isolation that they'd rather die risking contact than never try and reach out. Or, maybe the value associated just the very concept of it never really If you had never seen the outside world, how could you miss it? And in the same way, how can alien contact truly miss it either? As you can see, the SETI and invariably touches on the motives and capabilities of other civilizations. I am personally a big supporter of SETI, and indeed, that is something But METI is something that I believe we all have to weigh in on. Today, we've covered a lot of and those have been fun but now, I want to hear from you. Let me know down below where Should we engage in METI? How real are the risks to such activity? And what kind of civilization do you think chooses to engage in METI? This is something that we This is too big of a choice because, in the end, the outcome of this decision may affect us So, until next time, stay (pensive music) Thank you so much watching, everybody. I hope you enjoyed this video. If you did, be sure to and if you really wanna help us out, you can become a donor the Cool Worlds Lab at just like our latest two supporters, that is Emerson Garland and Alex Leishman. Thank you so much for your support, guys. So, see you in the next video, and have a cosmically (pensive music continues)