New guy. How are you feeling today? Good boss. Good. You'll be working on the foundations of building 6 and 7. Any questions? Yeah, I- Your questions will be answered by Dave. He is your buddy today. Ready for another day in paradise, sadface? Dave, why are you not wearing a helmet? I thought it was mandatory. Helmets are for kids, son. I'm in this job long enough to know that it won't protect you. I literally saw a colleague going to the hospital after a brick fell on his head yesterday. Poor guy. Should've worn his helmet. Also why am I digging with a shovel? Can't we use an excavator? The excavator is only for bob. He is trained and has a license for it. You'll need to put in some more work instead. Dammit. I'm off to my own duties now. If you need me, don't look for me. Can you move the leftover sand somewhere outside of the site? Is that how we're supposed to get rid of sand? Well, It's not how we're supposed to do it, but we do it anyway. Now I'm off to my own duties. Can't waste too much time on educating someone who will be gone within a month. See you later, sadface. Later 'beardface'. Yeah don't do that please. Sorry. You know our break is just finished right? What? I heard that the break starts at 11. No, it finishes at 11. Time to start working again. I'm joking kid. Come take a seat. So new guy, what do you think of the job so far? Is this what you imagined paradise would look like? I quite like the physical exercising you get from this job. Wait till you do this stuff for 20 years son. Lets see how you talk about it then. I can barely lift my shoulders up. Well, do you do stretching? Stretching? Are you made from wool or something? Stretching is for sissies. Just like wearing protection glasses. Only protection I need is a bullet proof vest, because I made a lot of people angry in my past. Are you going to talk about your gang life again? I did 10 years in prison. What can I say? It's been a big part of my life. But I'm good now. 10 years is nothing. I got 12 for beating up my ex her new boyfriend. After serving, this is the only job I could get into. I'm actually still in business. It's all about not getting caught. How about you new guy? What's your record? You look like a hitman or something. There's something hiding behind that silent pokerface. Uhm. I don't have a criminal history. Are you an ex-addict or something then? Nope. Just a guy tryna make a living. Should've become a crypto trader then. What's up man. Are you enjoying the job? Yeah quite. It's a great exercise. Yeah I was like that too in the beginning. At a certain point you'll realize you're wasting your life all for greedy bosses who want to suck every little bit of energy and time out of you. I swear our boss enjoys to see us sweating all day. Like he was born evil. Alright. Watch out for him. He will fire you for the slightest mistake you make. And he won't hesitate to make you overwork. Hey Peter! How are you doing? Still happy with the progress? Yeah quite. Can I do anything for you? Maybe tell the team to work faster? I was just checking upon the new guy. But working faster is always welcome. Got you, boss! I'll make them speed up. You see? Now I have to tell the team to work faster for the boss. Guys, there's quite a lot of work to do today. Could you start helping me out? We'll come when we have to. Not when you tell us to. Remember, we are in this career way longer. Working hard, huh? Yeah. I could use some help though. Everybody is chilling and drinking the whole day. Sadly, that's the culture. These people mastered the art of looking busy while doing nothing. How do you cope with it? I don't know. You get used to it. If you can take it for so long at least. Unless you're okay with being around miserable people 24/7, if you work trades most people are miserable and hate everyone. The negative energy is very infectious. You can breathe wrong and they will get mad at you and back talk you. Why aren't you like them? I have a passion for the craft of construction work. It's not the work that's hard. It's the people. Doing construction work is actually a lot of fun. Follow me. Isn't this relaxing? If you want to survive this job, remember that it's free for all. Work alone and in silence, and you'll find peace. Apart from your colleagues, being a construction worker is great.