- This episode is sponsored by BetterHelp, an online therapy platform. February is about the time post new year, and it's easy but it's during autopilot moments that prioritizing mental health That's why I'm excited to and support their mission to make therapy more affordable and accessible. With BetterHelp, you call the shots on where, when, and how. Therapy your way as a phone call, video chat, or even messaging. After filling out an BetterHelp uses your wants, to match you with a therapist, in most cases within 48 hours. So if you're looking for or just need someone to talk to in 2024, check out the link in my description. It's betterhelp.com/babish to Using that link supports this channel, and BetterHelp can connect to see if it can help you. Breakfast cereal. We're here today to try the I don't know if they're actually We just tried to pick in breakfast cereals. If we forgot one, we are But I think amongst this 36 boxes of sugar and cartoon characters we're gonna get a really great idea of what's good cereal I'm gonna rate these cereals And also, I'm probably going We're starting with perhaps that comes to mind when Cornflakes. Just straight up corn pressed into flakes from famously anti-masturbation I believe that these were invented to keep wandering hands away from curious scratches. Tastes like continental So little to say about this. All I know is that I really It's a great place to start because it's gonna help us codify our ranking structure here. And I think that this one Cheerios. Best known for being stuck when they're first learning This is the most popular Am I mistaken? It's an incredibly bland thing. Just toasted oats that have I think it's better than Cornflakes, but still not really doing it for me. But given that it is it's one of the most essential cereals, it does feel fitting to put it directly in the middle of the pack - [Bad] Fitting that this when Kellogg's would have a soft four. - Yeah, these are far too sexual a cereal. There's a whole of them, for God's sake. Honey Smacks. I forgot that these existed Wow. Hmm. I've never had these before, They have a texture that I've ever had. It tastes like honey. There is honey in them. I'm sure that there's But like, tastes pretty darn good. It's certainly better than There's a lot more I'm feeling aroused. This is what John Kellogg Six. Cocoa Puffs. Famously represented by a bird with pronounced mental illness. So I feel represented in the scene. But it's so unfair that these (beep) kids were like tempting this bird. He's just trying to escape the, he's trying to get away from the cereal, the thing that makes him go cuckoo. And then they would just He couldn't escape it, and he would just go And so too shall I, because I genuinely don't know to say this was chocolate. If you blindfolded me I'd be like, it's sweet. It's so artificial that when it's like, it punches you in the mouth. But with the milk, it chills it out, and then it's like, oh yeah, And yeah, it does turn the One of the most incredible magic tricks you've ever seen as a kid. It's a seven. Rice Krispies. Famously represented by three, what are these guys, are they elves? Yeah, they got the long ears. That's one of the defining - [Brad] Also, they stay their entire existence. - Yeah, they really do have dead eyes if you look at them too closely. And these become, if I remember correctly, these become soggy instantaneously. The flavor is so mild that This has gotta be one of the most powerful anti-masturbation foods I am hearing the snap, crackle, and pop. I did forget about that, and there's a little bit of magic to that. And that's gonna be Kix. Now this is a bad cereal. I remember being a kid and being like, this sucks, this is Kid tested, parent approved. Not kid approved. Doesn't say anything of that kid testing, just that it was tested upon them. How does this get sold? How, who's buying this? This is corn and milk. It's corn flavored pops in milk. It's not like bad, it's just not good. What do you, why, you know? I mean, it's the same in a different form factor, so I think that it deserves Frosted Flakes. The full name of the product Frosted Flakes of Corn. It doesn't roll off the as Frosted Flakes. Frosted Flakes of Corn. Like Tony the tiger who was endangered. Doesn't work as well. This is corn flakes with which just rockets it into So original corn flakes were a four, you airbrush some sugar on there, you're gonna get a six out of me. 'Cause it's better. So Trix looks insane. It looks like a cartoon These colors don't exist in nature. Very bizarre. I've collected all six Infinity Cereals. Avengers joke. Yeah, that tastes crazy. Maybe I'm just an old man. I wasn't allowed to eat If it changed the color of the milk, you're not allowed to eat it, young man. That actually was never said, It just tastes like you every color of fruit punch and mixed them all and sprayed it on this cereal. That's what it tastes like. - But I think this is more of - No, they had this when I was a kid. How dare you? How old do you think I am? Silly rabbit. Trix are for kids. - Sorry. It's crazy. I have to knock it down Silly rabbit, Trix are five kids. - That was really good. when this next cereal came out. It's the greatest day of my life. Made with real Reese's peanut What's this described as? Sweet and crunchy corn puffs. Doesn't say peanut butter nor chocolate. Interesting. Mostly just tastes like I'm not getting much of a chocolate vibe. That being said, it's whimsical. It does taste good. That's the one thing I It tastes good. What got a seven? Cocoa Puffs, certainly I'm gonna give this, 'cause I can find very Mom's cereal, otherwise Kendall raised a cogent point earlier. What is the nut? Let's see if it's in the ingredients. Whole grain oats, sugar, corn Okay, okay, we just solved the mystery. Natural almond flavor. We have answered the age old question that can be answered by just What is the nut of Honey Nut Cheerios? It's almond. It is a slightly better and given that Cheerios are it is a slight upgrade to them, six. Six, just like Life cereal It's cornflakes in a different shape. That's how I feel about Chex. Let's see if that holds up. Why is it so much better It's just corn, a little sugar, but it tastes, I enjoy it so Why? How do you make this? It's not only a incredibly but it is a pocket of How do they do it? Let's see what happens both from a technological standpoint and for some reason it's I'm going to award it one This is truly a mid cereal. Golden Crisp. Is this a direct Instead of a frog, they This really made me laugh. More sweet slang with sugar bear. But what is this some sweet slang? Liquid gold, the delicious milk sweetened by your Golden Crisp. Goldmine, the feeling you get when you carry a bowl of Golden Crisp into a room full of hungry friends. Golden Rule, there's only one. Keep your paws off my Golden Crisp. The one like thing that to teach kindness and the Golden Rule has been rebranded with selfishness in mind. In fact, there's an beset in a bear trap, wrapped in chains. I have here a pot of gold, It does have a nicer flavor. It's sweeter, but it tastes or toasted wheat. Where did I put the other one at? Honey, Honey Smacks, six. I honestly think that it deserves because it's got a more It tastes more like toasty and but it's got less interesting texture. I think that cancels it out. Six, Crispix. It feels like off-brand Chex, but I guess it's just a Chex competitor. This one has the decency to That could be interesting. So every single bite, one I'm assuming 'cause it's quite yellow, and then the other side is rice. Yeah, you know, it's pretty boring. I really have nothing to say about it. That's how boring it is. Would Chex get five? In spite of their effort it's still just pretty boring to eat, so I think it's gonna it is also a five. Okay, okay, all right, all right. A little too excited. Honeycomb. Oh, oh, oh. You're amazing. Every day is a big day. No excuses. Okay, just relax. Terry Crews. Terry Crews is a big... It's great, it's great. I just did not expect it. Fill in the pep talk. Are you kidding me? This is great. This is all positive messages. This Post. - The nasty one was Post too? - What are you trying to do, Post? It's like a less frosty Frosted Flake, kind of with less crunch, but it will get soggy less so I think that puts it at a six. A nudge above normal ass cereal. Weetabix. It feels like one solid mass. Yeah, there's no negative Brad got it. He says it's big in Europe, - [Brad] I think England specifically. - England, big in England. What is this, a (beep) What is this stuff? It appears to be compressed It is food. It is absolutely food product. Is it gonna expand like and it comes in a pill? It got so soggy, so fast. Look at that, huh? Oh, wow. This is the worst part of my job. (laughs) Trying to keep it together. This is the worst part of my job because this is a beloved thing in another very strange culture. The texture is quite unlike I truly dislike it with milk, and I'm sure that's how It shows it in milk on the box, just these pucks just splashing down. My simple American mind Any cereal that does that? Mm, come on. So sayeth the sages of old. Gotta have my Pops. Do you gotta have your Pops? Let's find out. Whoa. They're really sweet. I can't believe how sweet they are. I always thought that this was gonna be like a boring cereal. It's just corn puffs. They sog pretty quickly. Unflavored rice cereal is a five, but this is no better than that. Like, it just doesn't taste So I'm gonna put it at a five. I think it's very mid. I'm gonna get (beep)ing People are going to kill me in the street. No, it's not a five. It's not a five. It's a six. It's a six. I'm not even doing that to be a sycophant. I'm doing it because it's better than rice or corn puffs or Chex or whatever. Like, it's not as boring. It's just not very good. It's a six. That does feel right. It feels like an accurate score. Breakfast of champions. I remember loving Wheaties. They're just like Corn Flakes, but they're made from Corn Flake versus Wheatie. The Wheaties have a little If anything, a little more salt. They're saltier, which is nice. I like that. It is, I would say, so, than Corn Flakes. Just 'cause of the salt, really. Does that earn it a whole extra point? Yeah, no, five. Wheaties get a five. Brought back from the Golden Grahams. The retro recipe. This, I think, might've favorite cereals of all time growing up. (crunching) Stays crazy crispy. I'm biased as hell, but I One of my favorite all-time cereals, and I just found two stuck together. It must be my birthday. A lot of personal bias going on here. I'm gonna try to take a step it's correctly sweetened, It's just graham crackers. In my heart, it's a nine, I don't even know if because eight is still just exceptional, like a truly outstanding cereal. As painful as this is for me to say, I want you to know I but I'm gonna give it a seven. What else is there to say? Grape-Nuts time. The cereal that is neither grape nor nuts. What exactly is this crap? It's whole grain wheat salt, and dried yeast. So it's basically just flour that's baked. It's like bread? 100% of the daily whole Seven grams of fiber, that is impressive. Incredibly crunchy. Not crispy. You'll notice I'm not saying crispy. It's crunchy. It's not light and airy kind of crunch. It is deep and dark and It's so boring, but it's so I'm gonna give it a five. Grape-Nuts, you surprised me. This is Cap'n Crunch. Another cereal that I'm not entirely sure if I've ever tried. They're crisp throughout. Like with Pops and other cereals, there's like a variance to their texture, but these are just crisp It's good, it's good. They're a six. They're a solid six. Most of these cereals are dried, puffed, and then covered in sugar. They're all the same thing. And so if you have the on your corn, rice, oat If you don't, you get a five. That's how this system, I think, works. And if you do something that impresses me, makes me happy, you go up to seven. Fruity Pebbles. These, I remember, also Woo, that aroma, it's just, can you smell it from there? It's pungent. This is the strongest smelling Not something you normally think about. I don't even know if these I would imagine they're not. They're all just probably the same generic fruit tribute flavor. I bet I'm gonna love this. God, powerful's the only word for it. The smell, the look, and Oh, ooh, ooh. Ooh, those do not age well in milk. Oh my goodness. That hurts your score. I was gonna try to be nice, 'cause I was like, &quot;This But that lasted about, that That was no time at all, It's not a seven. It's too insane. It is a six, though, 'cause and I like eating it snacky. This is nice, this is fun, what I'm doing. This is fun, what I'm doing. Puffins. I don't think I've ever heard of this. And they appear to be some I know that they intended this crunch, but it almost reads as stale. It's a soft crunch. Yeah, I would give it a five, because it's just like cereal, but the soft crunch is a bummer to me, and the smell's not so great. This is a three. Three does feel right. Froot Loops. Oh, the smell. The smell of Froot Loops. Oh my God. Oh my God. Oh my God. It's even, it kicks the It's just like, the whole It's too much. It's too much, and the fruit flavor is not nearly as good as Fruity Pebbles. It's worse even than Trix. It tastes kind of flat and plastic. I hate the smell. I hate it. And the flavor I don't like, and I don't like anything about them. I'm putting it down at a three. People are gonna come and this one, I don't care. If you came at me about Cap'n Crunch, nail me that cross, fine. But Froot Loops, this sucks. I'm sorry, this is bad. Kashi. It's a very simple, minimalist box, very clearly made for adults whose dreams have long since died. We all agree that this looks Let's try them out. I've never had Kashi before. Okay. Wow. Okay. Wow. Okay. Wow. They taste exactly like healthier Honey Nut Cheerios. That's exactly what which I believe I put at a six. They don't get a six, but I think they'll be at a five. No, they're a four. I don't know why. I just feel it. They're a four. Special K. A cereal that in my mind reads as healthy. I don't know if that's true or not. Very Wheaties-like Flake, sweetened Wheaties. That's what they taste like. And the strawberries are which is nice. I really like the fresh fruit in there. That's really nice. It's just Wheaties with And the strawberries are a net positive. Six. Frosted Mini Wheats. The ultimate combination Or at least it was in my mind as a child. Right off the bat. Right off the bat. That's good luck. That hurt. And it choked me. But I won't hold that against you. Normally you gotta pay It absorbed the milk like a sponge. All the way to the core. To the core. Unfortunately, they're suffering which just like, they just mush. It's kinda nice. They still have a little There's still texture. It's not just straight up slop. I prefer them dry. They're six. I'll say what we're all thinking. Here's one I've been I was never allowed to because, I mean, it looks bad for you. Like this looks like bad for you. I don't know what else to say. I'm very curious to see if the chocolate is really that like melty and smooth. I'm sure it won't be, but I'm And I'll report to you Pathetic. Embarrassing. It's good though. I like it. The first chocolate that has a distinct chocolatey flavor. It is chocolatey. Still quite crispy. I know I would have loved these as a kid. My dad was right to I would put it in league with Cocoa Puffs. It keeps its shape. It's a good flavor. Not crazy about the flavor of the shell, but yeah, it's a seven. Let's get things back Raisin Bran. It's again, looks like a What? These are not very crunchy, like soft. It's soggy before it hits the milk. Yeah, it tastes really good for me. But the flake already is just so, I don't know if you can see Do you see that? I think Raisin Bran is getting a five because normally I'd give it a six for having the inclusion But I think that it's inferior Cocoa Pebbles. It smells exactly like Hershey's chocolate and that's not my favorite but at least it smells Oh, that's good. Yeah. Yeah, but that sogs out real fast. I find the flavor to be and I declare these to be a higher score, score, score of seven. Seven, seven. Cookie Crisp. So what we got going here covered in moles. Do they taste like cookies in cereal form? No, they do not. They taste like slightly If I were like, oh my gosh, I'm gonna have cookies for breakfast and then I ate this, I'd be like, what the (beep) is this? Four. Four to Cookie Crisp. I'm just gonna take a this cereal is called Life? It's called Life. It's just, it's so lofty to like, life is everything. It's everything we know. There you have it, folks. Life. Life. Immediately soft. Just not interesting. So this deserves a four. Frosted Cheerios, or as they're sometimes called, Slightly Better Cheerios. Fair amount of frosting on there. It tastes like Cheerios that Why are you guys watching this? I'm kidding, I know it's and handsome. Yeah, yeah. Slightly better Cheerios. Cheerios are a five. Then these are, they don't deserve a six. Cheerios doesn't deserve a five. I'm all topsy-turvy, folks. I think by just sheer I have to give it a six, even though I resent it. I think I'm gonna hate these. I've never, I was never This is, if you weren't allowed to have sweet cereals growing up, this was like the cereal don't you touch those Lucky Charms when you go over to Derek's house. There are the eight that reside in Lucky Charms. That's really tasty. I really like that. Now I'm real curious to see I quite like that. I think I really like Lucky Charms. I'm gonna give it a seven. I really quite enjoy it. If this is anything like this is one of the more perfect cereals. Every bit as awesome as I remember it. It's like a mouthful of joy. Another thing that's cool, because of the granola, I feel like this is more It's more optional. Like I don't feel like a monster Not only is this an all-timer, but like it lives exactly It's exactly the way I remember it. I'm struggling to think Is that almonds in it? Be a nine. I think it's gonna be an eight. I think it's an eight. Apple Jacks. I've never tried Apple It's like Froot Loops that aren't out of their (beep) minds. It's like chill Froot Loops that actually taste kind of like fruit. Isn't that crazy? Fruit with a U-I. I'm truly impressed that they and wholly confused by throughout the '90s. See, yeah, it's like chill Froot Loops. So I do like that. So I feel like I have to give it a seven. It's good. Cinnamon Toast Crunch. Kellogg's don't make this. No, sir. Only General Mills could Cinnamon Toast, also one It's what my mom would You know, a little toast with some butter and cinnamon sugar on it. My God, whomever's idea was to be like, let's capture that in a cereal medium. I hope they are driving their Like I'm trying to step back and not be a fan boy of Very hard not to do, especially But it doesn't like look that great. It doesn't look like the It's gonna taste incredible. You guys are just gonna be Okay, one problem is that and it's still good when it's soggy, but it's not nearly as good. It's great. It's one of the all-time greats. You can't get much better than this. I wanna give it a 10, but it's not the greatest and it does sog faster - [Brad] But if this isn't - Can anything be a 10? Should anything be a 10? 10 is perfection. And is anything perfect? Would we even want anything to be perfect? What is perfection but that prevents us from enjoying things that are slightly imperfect? And I think if you love something, you have to be able to be and not say that there are but that it's part of Am I perfect? Am I a 10? (beep) no. No! - Yes. I'm a New York five. If there were truly a perfect cereal, why even bother with anything else? Therefore, Cinnamon I never thought I'd say it myself. You're a 10 in my heart, And you are the golden glue What did we learn today? Very little. I hope you have a good day. We tried 36 different kinds of cereal. Who came out on top but What a surprise. And tied for silver are Reese's Puffs and Honey Bunches of Oats. Biggest surprise for me was Lucky Charms. I thought I was gonna hate them. I love them. Biggest disappointment It's a sensory overload. It doesn't deserve to exist. I just don't like it. You might like it, I don't know. And please comment below what you wanna see me rate next time. I'm open to pretty much anything. I'd love to do Seltzer for a change so I don't have insulin Take care, now. Thanks again to BetterHelp And if you're looking for click the link in my description or go to betterhelp.com/babish to get 10% off your first month. (gentle music)