Favorite movie as a kid? I loved Just say Toy Story or something, it's okay. I know it's not 2001: A Space Odyssey, I'm so tired of "oh what are your Do people even like movies anymore? fans aren't into classic or highbrow cinema is that it is to some extent just a natural part I think we also can't deny that our general this change has been negatively affecting our conventional, more challenging, and that just I do think there is a sense Forgive me if I don't tell you the latest Marvel much more insight into this discussion... movies that just make you smile :) the way we go about our lives in general, is and today, I want to examine the impact that in an attempt to unify the variety of been changing our relation to cinema, and offer among other things, why we've become so obsessed "literally me", why we're increasingly reducing moral messages they contain, and why it is that knowledge of and passion for cinema, we still end while playing Fortnite on a second screen. Let's Brought to you by MUBI. Barbie, wake up. hype surrounding Greta Gerwig's Barbie settled fascinating article "If It Makes You Cry, It Must was the film for? Indeed, many of the discussions adventure through Barbie land seemed to inevitably set out to be in the first place. To some, its beyond serving as an entry-level introduction for also plenty here about nostalgia, adulthood and however, the answer doesn't really matter. over 1 billion dollars at the box office. Ken is me? And I'm Barbie. exemplifies a growing trend in storytelling and and obsessed with relatability. It's a larger greater cultural shift in which our attention and in which relatability is proving it. In his New York Times piece "Why Do We Obsess by Quinlan, Jeremy D. Larson writes; "Relatability you thoughtlessly down the curated, endless digital-media realm, a mealy concept that delights but guarantees to garner a reader's attention." In from likeability; it's that which transforms into a much stronger, more intimate relationship. like they're people. Why politicians, CEO's and how much they're just one of us, instead of and conscientious individuals who we can we trust a bad production now seems to be in on the joke. Best season ever! relatability has become key. Going back to have increasingly been stripped from specificity references that are designed to relate to as this not only through its critical and financial of cultural crescendo with a grand speech above anything else, extremely relatable. which is insane, but if you point that Now, you might wonder, weren't America Ferrera's because they weren't generic and instead spoke to yes, and no. While representation in cinema is a a movie, what we've been seeing a lot of in on representational politics, the rise of have the appearance of being specific but which at the same time, also tend to superficial characterizations, with the moments and grand speeches that all manage to wrap of a more specific relatability. It's as if balance between being specific enough to get the they actually have to sacrifice marketability. the bigger studios and franchises. It's also the Quinlan are suffering from underwritten stories appeal towards relatability. "In Celine Song's two independent successes of the year, viewers than how they have (very broadly) been shaped or loss. Claims that these questions of identity writing cop-outs, are spurious." Now, I must All of Us Strangers, and as someone who has made a how the question of identity is indeed a part the argument really hit me personally, and where I with the general observation that movies like self-recognition; that they serve to a large as Quinlan refers to it, onto which we can project wonder, is this really such a bad thing? Is it not that it can invoke this kind of relatability, into other characters, into other stories, and kind of catharsis or transformation? and no. Of course, channeling your own being my whole channel wouldn't exist if I didn't larger issue that Quinlan seems to be getting at; spontaneous relational quality that can develop being commodified; that it's increasingly an exploit that co-opts our natural capacity for and profit. "it's all commodified in the end;" - and smaller indies meet, both capitalising on and everything really, is becoming blander and and shapeless mass in pursuit of maximum reach; easy to consume. This has also been having real cinema as a whole. The way we look at movies, the or rather; it's being narrowed down, it's all lens of relatability, of what we understand, Is it just me, or is it getting crazier out there? the internet, you've probably seen that meme where described as "literally me". Though coming of demographics, the most popular version, which is the one with men connecting over a collection to be, well, literally them. Ranging from all the way back to older classics like Fight it seems, is a shared frustration with and society and humanity in general. At this point, you can probably already see is relatability, but what's interesting or I guess; meme-ification of cinema wasn't it wasn't some top-down corporate concept. out of people who found a new way to approach and we can also begin to observe the resulting on our own cinematic attitude and psychology. me" memes is that they don't really promote they're not treated as an invitation to get way that they are, or even to examine the exact observations about the current state of the world. working jobs we hate so we No, it's merely about relishing in the relatable the sad rainy atmospheres, all that which audience already had, while maintaining a willful it's relatability being used as a comfort blanket, a way to validate one's beliefs and feelings let alone confront them in a truly meaningful way. And this leads us into the second Cinema as Self-Righteous Moralism a rather specific example, they do point to we've come to engage with cinema. Because to this increasing shift towards relatability by and the growing expectation of comfort and worsening an already troubling development, which welcomes discussion and conflict as a fundamental of our engagement with it. Or to put it like this; and towards desiring affirmation, also extends which has caused us to increasingly obsess over or storytelling sense, but in a moral one. And Does it reflect what I believe to be good and beliefs? Does it contain ideas that I perceive to Was it conceived or executed in a way that to what extent is this piece of media, as the As with relatability, the idea of critically in itself. Quite the opposite in fact. Again, my that movies have an educational function, our worldview, which naturally implies that more regressive, that serve to uphold misguided, more critical examination. But an essential part discomfort, the act of allowing yourself to be beliefs and ideas, which has never been an easy difficult. It's like it's become increasingly that instead of welcoming critical discussion as treated as an attack that has to be deflected. An response against inclusivity and representation. Snow White - Where now you either eat this pronoun over the top 5 woke Hollywood disasters of 2023. a meaningful conversation to be had about the stories leading to a sort of forced or shallow in which we find subversions of or commentaries that are actually done very well, or at least, which are nevertheless immediately brushed aside While the problem of wokeness, as I guess it is forced kind of diversity, in reality it rarely rather seems to have become just a reflexive of that, in many conversative circles wokeness has a sign that a movie simply isn't for them, meaning that wokeness is, in their view, something whole, and which in the most extreme cases, is actively combatted instead of merely ignored. on the extremer ends on the other side of feel stories are being overvalued for for how well they serve the cause, so to say. An cinema that only encourages more ambiguous as if the very presence of any form of whether it's an outdated trope, a perceived a slightly too controversial subject, or some sin that it automatically disqualifies a piece of it's this relational development that I I believe warrants further examination, because rooted in bigotry, what we see here, I think, are individualization; the greater societal shift autonomous, that they can, and must, master the combined with the growing dominion of the consumer the individual has become the expected driving pursuit of self-actualization, and therefore, self-expression really, has become almost entirely words, what we've been experiencing is the slow world's conscience rests on our shoulders, and the right products, and to watch the right movies. are still limited by time, place and circumstance, within greater societal units that determine if not more so, than any one individual can, it is complacency as the very act of endorsing some discussion, championing a piece of media that or inversely; condemning it when it contains can become its own source of self-righteous as David Mamet once articulated in his critique seeing that the villain's bad; and, in the liberal accomplishment." And this is a risk because it feedback loop that turns watching cinema from where instead treating movies as a way to engage actual behavior, it becomes satisfying enough to works that affirms our beliefs, and judge those to get stuck in this loop, for if there's one incorporating critiques into itself, you know, status quo revolutionism, all giving the illusion and that you're pro-actively engaged in the consuming; moral action as the non-contentious articulating and re-writing what is already formulation, one more cinematic depiction, What we do, is just create - sympathy. We create- To be fair, it's hard to make one generalized really depends on the individual; whereas a of complacency for one person, a passive in the satisfaction of having the right beliefs, that same movie might be a genuine catalyst for motivates them to make a significant change when looking at in broad strokes, it does are the ones that do fall into that sphere and the easily agreed with. While those and more ambiguous, struggle to truly become In her article, Quinlan does bring up 3 anomalies, Moon, May December and Tar, that all, in some audiences into the fabric of their text in promotes a certain degree of discomfort. "A narrative gambit at the end of Killers of mass entertainment and his own implications in particular, and the ubiquity of morbid was similarly interrogative of this while Tar's even if who it was pointed at was up for debate." soul appears to be social media. Glazer's The Zone of Interest here as a work that historical sense, but also in the here and now as where our own 'zone of interest' ends, what walls, and what evil we are casually ignoring, existence? The point is, as Quinlan concludes, objects to be easily consumed or spewed out by and were all the more interesting by having built a conflict not just in the text, in the story in its very relationship with the audience. these works and others like it is that they seems to be so eagerly denied; that history is are filled with contradictions, with values that lives, but completely ignore in others. but that affect our actions nevertheless. And the very part of ourselves that most need critical there is something illegible, impenetrable about whole, something that cannot be reduced to easily and other passively affirmative certainties. and unsatisfying it can be, to really sit impossibilities, because it is here, in this turn inwards, and where, somewhat paradoxically, Wisdom is holding two contradictory You give into the rhythm, every Naturally, it's a mode of engagement that demands and invite conflict into one's inner being. And something we all just need to be doing more of, time and place for this, that there are certain met in order to be truly ready for such active they used to be, and this is where we get to within which everything else we have discussed so The Overwhelming Constant Stimulants the famed author of, among other works, Blood McCarthy observed that while people will "the indulgent, 800-page books that were written a anymore and people need to get used to that. like The Brothers Karamazov or Moby Dick, go good it is, or how smart the readers are. Their while McCarthy comes across as a bit hyperbolic relates to cinema, which is the idea that also affect how we perceive and engage with that they can re-wire our brains, so to say. towards relatability, both in the sense that this as in the sense that this is increasingly what we have to consider our relation to cinema in we're meeting the movies in the first place. For not just being sold to us by corporations in some by ourselves in some deliberate quest to satisfy quietly fed to us by algorithms on the many online in a very real sense, our entire lives. By now, content curated specifically to us, all day, every The chance encounter has been replaced with our conditioning towards relatability and comfort, in front of us, then that's what we're going to than that. It's not just that relatable it's also becoming a sort of navigational I'm sure you've had this too; where you want that browsing mode, just scrolling down movie limited window we had to actually watch a movie where you just tune in to whatever's playing. and every option is just one brick in a giant we have more access than ever before, pre-organized even to our taste, and yet the ever. Choice may equal freedom, but clearly, too end up going for the low-hanging fruit, the easy least consideration. And no wonder we can't get but will binge a whole of season of the latest time that's the issue; it's constantly having ourselves that we want to get a break from. entertainment; it's the whole of our lives that always engaged. Ours is the age of constantly the age of depression and burn-out. It might be speaking, we've only barely entered into this as a preliminary hypothesis, but I can't help but in general, or rather; the willingness to engage constantly overstimulated, and so constantly pandemic for example; one of the greatest global aching to relive it in a movie? To be drawn into also still in that state where you, as most movies happened? To me at least, it definitely felt like event itself and the direct impact it had on them, discourse around it, which was just a 24/7 debating, in good faith and bad, though mostly vaccination programs, international differences, sociological effects, the could have done this, who was at fault here, who can we blame, It's not that these questions don't matter at all, you feel like you've parsed enough information to start separating the important bits from the and the flood of noise begins all over again. moving from one crop field to the next. Even if escaping it. It's all-invasive, and it feels like about cinema too, which is that idea that that you consciously and willingly enter into for movie is to cross a certain threshold, both in a or settle in on the couch at home, as well as even if only subconsciously, to be transported it offers. What really becomes of this experience when we already are in that liminal all the time. Again, it's no wonder that we that we've come to treat cinema as an escape. we're not even really doing that. For me at I'm not seeking out true escapism in the form of the Caribbean, you know, something that truly genuinely nourished me by the end of it. Because also an active form of engagement, and when you're you want to be disengaged, you want something but not so much that you can't also scroll do some chores around the house, or indeed, play that's been getting some attention. For example, why the world is now addicted to 'background TV'", on something that is easily consumed or that have some background noise, like a mild sedative. to drown out the inner monologues, which can times. Clearly, this is not using cinema as an Now, I realize this is all starting to sound a specifically about the potential for and dynamics this future doesn't seem to look very bright. But and that while it may seem to forewarn some kind merely signify a temporary upset; a momentary actually want, what we actually need, and which in I have no doubt that truly balancing out our going to be one of the bigger challenges of our meaningful answer to. But still, I do have faith is not going to be absolute death of cinematic require new perspectives on what the relationship maybe there are some traditional ideals that we embrace, but then again, both the Brothers great thought-provoking movies are still being ways maybe even more so than ever as they can help of focus. Obviously, there is some timeless But why then all this alarmism? Why proclaim the not dead at all? Well, because for so feel like it is. And they might want some that it doesn't have to be. I know I did. just to examine some broader cultural trends, who aren't treating cinema as they should, in because I too have been drawn in by, and arguably I too have misused movies as an easy source myself into believing I was a better person than in another video relating more specifically to and I too have been postponing so many movies that to instead mindlessly settle for the cinematic I wish I wouldn't waste so much time like this. much, and something had to change. Not only fact only tends to leave me frustrated, it also to live my life by. There is so much beauty in our inner beings, reflected back to us, so much with new perspectives, in broadening our horizons, into the world of a story, truly losing yourself there's one simple yet potent source of hope here yourself of this. Just as a simple walk in the I've found that it just takes one reinvigorating made you feel so passionate about cinema in be able to hold on to that spark, some days it is to find yourself back in a movie-watching habit and where cinema becomes truly exciting again. of movies that got me so enthusiastic that I've a long time; rewatching a variety of classics, and just really making the space and the time definitely going to be on my favorites of the year about a mixed-race sniper who is brought along on of a wealthy estate, but which quickly turns into it's not a direct adaptation of Cormac McCarthy, it does come very close to Blood Meridian, the one at its heart, The Settlers is a savage tale thoroughly violent, it's never exploitative and landscapes that enveloped it; cold and quiet, yet be drawn inwards. It's the kind of movie, as we you part of its subject, that makes you reflect on on the greater forces that bring it into motion. I wouldn't have found it if it wasn't for MUBI. if you want to just go ahead and check out The platform, be sure to use my personal link to get an extra minute, let me tell you the real reason what I realized as I was writing this video, is just algorithmically cater to your comfort, but said this before in previous MUBI spots, you know, exceptional movies from around the globe." But become so much more explicit as I've found that is to immerse myself in the various categories deep into a certain genre, theme, or era. You'll effect where the more you trigger your cinematic broadening of your horizon also comes with the expansion of understanding. Because of course, the it's about developing taste and insight, and for be just as informative. So yeah, to conclude, I'd of those disgruntled TikTokers. Go watch The called [???], and if you're gonna do so on MUBI, that's mubi.com/likestoriesofold