Translator: Tijana Mihajlovic Hi. I've got a question for you: how many people here (Laughter) I think we've got about one or two percent and it's interesting, isn't it? It's a little bit like people think They think,&quot;You can either But I think you can. Because when people say they can't draw, I think it's more to do with beliefs So I think when you say you can't draw, and today I'd like to prove that to you. When I say &quot;draw&quot;, I'm not saying we're all going We are not going to be painting But would you be happy if, you could draw pictures (Audience murmuring) Oh, yes! (Laughter) Or even a little bit like this? (Laughter) Actually, there are only two things One is have an open mind. (Audience) Yes! And two, just be prepared to have a go. So grab a pen and a piece of paper. OK, so here's how it's going to work: I'll show you the first cartoon so just watch to begin with. Here we go. Just watching. That's going to be our first cartoon. It's a character called Spike. I'd like you to draw along with me. I'll draw the first line, you draw, and I'll know you're ready Okay, here we go. Start with the nose. Now the eyes. They're like 66s or speech marks. That's it. Next, the mouth. Nice, big smile. Now, over here, the ear. Next, some spiky hair. Next, put the pen to the left Pen under the ear, drop a line like that. Pen to the left of the neck, Line to the left, line to the right. Just hold your drawings up (Laughter) How are we all doing? (Laughter) OK. OK, fantastic. So, it looks like you've just learned but you've actually learned you've learned a sequence to draw hundreds and thousands because we're just going to do Have a go at this. Draw along with me. Nose. Eyes. Smile. That's it. Now some hair. Pen to the left of the mouth, under the hair, little V-shape for the top, line to the left, line to the right. So we've got another character. (Laughter) So, we've got Spike and Thelma. Let's try another one. Here we go. Another little variation. Starting with the nose. But this time we'll change Look, two circles together like that. That's it. Then, two little dots in for the eyes. And this time we'll change Little circle colored in there. Have a go at that. Next, the ear. Now, we'll have some fun Nice curly hair. Then same thing: pen to the left Under the ear, drop a line. Top of the T-shirt. Line to the left, line to the right. I think we'll call him Jeff. (Laughter) We'll do one more. One more go. Here we go. You're getting the idea. (Laughter) So we'll start with a nose again. Notice we're doing little variations. Now we'll change the eyes, We'll put some little dots in like that. Next, the mouth slightly different. Let's put a little V-shape like that. Triangle. And a little line across, Now, watch this bit carefully; Here we go, little line like that. Next, a bit more there. And watch, a couple of triangles Triangle at the bottom, rest of the hair. Pen to the left of the mouth again. Drop a line for the neck. Now the V-shape. Line to the left, line to the right. There we go. Let's call her Pam. (Laughter) So you've done... (Laughter) So you've done four cartoons. (Laughter) Take a rest. You're getting the idea. I'll just demonstrate a couple to you. We could go on all day, couldn't we? You could do someone or you could experiment with, just draw a straight line, Or perhaps, you could do anything Look at this. Little squiggle. So, all sorts of things we could do. Actually, one more I'll let you do, This is a great little technique. Have a go at this: people with glasses on. Just draw a nose a bit like Spike's. Next, draw some frames, so two circles like that Now, just put some dots Next, the ear. So it's little bit like we did before, That's it. Watch this bit. (Laughter) And this bit I really like. Watch. (Laughter) And then, little bit there. Pencil under the mustache, line down, top of the shirt, left and right. So there we have it. Hopefully, we've done enough that in fact we can all draw. And not just people here. I'm going to give you three examples and that actually surprised them, too. I'm going to save most surprising example until last. The first example is: I've worked a lot with children Actually the little ones, but when they get to about 15 or 16, But I worked with them. I worked this week in a school where I was coaching them A girl was trying to remember and she drew this little picture of a red blood cell to remind her that the red blood cells That was a great one. The other people I worked with and particularly in business, and they often will want So again, a quick cartoon or sketch And again, most people think Couple of wavy lines, little boat could be a metaphor So that, if that was just drawn would really stay Yeah. But the third example is - This is my favorite. Have you ever been at the party It gets a little bit skeptical This lady said to me, well - I said, &quot;I do a little bit of training, and she said, &quot;Would you come along She said, &quot;I work with some people&quot; a group of people So I said, &quot;Sure, I could spare So I said I would, Have you ever done that? You get near of that time and you think, &quot;Will I be able to do it?&quot; I thought, &quot;What could I &quot;I know. I'll do my cartoon drawing. But then, as I got near of the time, because then I was thinking, &quot;I've worked with children, I've never worked with a group like this.&quot; It turns out it was all part This TALK charity is a wonderful charity but have a particular condition You might have heard of aphasia, The key thing is it affects So, for example, they might have trouble reading, writing, speaking, It can be quite an isolating condition; it can be very, very frustrating Anyway, so I prepared all this stuff, - for a couple of hours, and I got more apprehensive. But actually, I needn't have worried, because I'm going to show you now It was one of the best things I'm going to show you the first slide. I taught them Spike, and I want you to see the reaction (Audience) Oh. What you can see here on the left and right, and one of the volunteer Each stroke recoverer, there are about 36 there's one-to-one helpers. You can just see the delight Let's look at another picture. This is a gentleman called David, and you can tell it was the picture In fact, I think he's drawn Spike But what I didn't realize was that the number of the people were drawing with their wrong hand. David's stroke meant that it affected and he drew with his left hand, Nobody mentioned it to me, They just got on with it. It was an inspirational session for me. It was quite a humbling session, one of the best things At the end of it, I had a lovely email and he's the chair of the TALK group; happens to be a medical doctor, He wrote to me, and I'm quoting, he said, &quot;Our recoverers learned today It's a bit more than that; this sort of activity So I was happy, he was happy, they've invited me back again, and I go in there now So it's great. I thought Fancy one more drawing? (Audience) Yes. Here we go. Grab your pens. Here we go. Right. I'm going to get you to draw someone So start with a big nose, Next, we'll do some eyes, &quot;This is also a bit like Spike.&quot; Watch the next bit. You're getting warm. There you go. Little line down there. Down here. Little V-shape, And you've got Albert Einstein. (Laughter) So you've got the pens with you, you've proved that you can draw. You're very welcome and have a practice at home, even show somebody else. But actually, I'd like to leave you When you walked in here today, many of you didn't believe I've got a question for you about that. How many other beliefs do we all carry around with us every day? Beliefs that we could perhaps and think differently about. If we did challenge those beliefs apart from drawing, what else Thank you very much. (Applause)