There's always a big flurry of interest the SpaceX Falcon 9 and the Dragon Crew today's news is tomorrow's chip wrapper spacecraft, do they just hang around up what goes up must come down still apply. We've been putting spacecraft into orbit 1957 with the launch of Sputnik figure is debatable because it depends spacecraft two or even three but an awful lot of things we've put into satellites for communications of a satellite can range from a few days they are placed and how long they can necessarily mean that much when it comes operation for 22 days and in orbit for launched just after Sputnik Explorer 1 record for the oldest piece of space USA's second satellite Vanguard 1 grapefruit-sized satellite is still in the first used solar cells which enabled years although it is now Earth until 2198 year long orbital lifetime. The reason months and Vanguard is expected to stay distance of their orbit from Earth earth at its lowest orbital point or point was 939 kilometers but that was should have been. Vanguard on the other and an Apogee of Earth's atmosphere Even the ISS is close enough of 403 amount of drag from the upper atmosphere repositioning it too would end up ultimate fate for almost everything thousand kilometers. Now the surface of the biggest satellites like the ISS are very small in comparison and during end up burning up in the atmosphere and leaves the biggest densest parts to fall populated areas. So to avoid this an area this spacecraft cemetery the area which Oceanic Point of Inaccessibility and is the between Easter Island, Pitcairn Island somewhere in this patch of sea including predecessor Mir and six other salyut transfer and cargo craft used to finally decommission the ISS itself But this won't be the fate for the geostationary orbits that's things like satellites that stay over one place and the earth. There they are too far away to their orbits are influenced by the and Sun and even by the solar wind and satellites is not determined by their propellant they can carry to power the to keep them in their allocated service life has come to an end even if otherwise. earth are directed to the spacecraft corresponding place in space where the brought back to earth safely can be functional craft. This is known as the kilometres higher than the out of fuel they should be boosted to because not all of them have been moved license to operate telecommunication moving their satellite to the graveyard Once there they will stay out of the way theory they could stay there for will be affected by gravitational forces become a problem at some point in the years or so. Some satellites pose more of back those are ones which used nuclear supply systems. The Soviet Union put 33 reconnaissance satellites into orbit them have ejected their radioactive through various failures come back to over Canada's Northwest Territories, the Only one U.S. craft were SNAP-10A reactor as a test but due to an nuclear reactor it shut down after just kilometre orbit above the 50 large traceable pieces, maybe after a it's 1300 kilometer orbit the next 4,000 years or so. Of course ended up much farther away and like the around the Sun including solar have ended up there by accident. Once in other small asteroid, they will stay something else or they are affected by Over millions of years the charged gradually break down much of their smaller and smaller pieces. In 1959 60,000 kilometers from the moon before still there as of 1969. The S-IVB third all ended up in orbit around the Sun as known as Snoopy, the only once manned others were lost on route to locations Ranger 3 and Ranger 5, Luna 1, Venera 1, Mars 1, Zond 2, Mars 4, Mars 7, Phobos 1, Mars Observer, Nozomi, Minvera mini lander and SHIN-EN. For some a very small corner of a these are the probes and Landers Saturn's moon Titan and to a couple of 38 attempts have been made but only 19 have lasted much longer than expected. been pronounced dead contact with earth after being hit by a lifespan is all more amazing as it was Its twin the Spirit rover lasted over trap which limited its ability to eventual demise in 2007. The Curiosity last for two years but has been active mission has now been extended to function which could be many years the longest-lived craft are those which beyond. Currently there are five such spacecraft pioneer 10 and 11 Voyager 1 and 2 and third stages of the launch vehicles and the probes that were generally traveling themselves. In deep space the sun's power these use radioisotope thermoelectric radioactive source is turned into electrical systems and depending upon these can last for decades. radioactive source and the degeneration convert the heat into electrical power longer power the craft but it's a spacecraft and the electronic components designs in some cases that they are deep space over four decades later. transmitting due to a lack of power in billion kilometers from Earth and direction of the star Aldebaran 68 1973 and in 1995 due to a lack of power away from direction of Earth cutting any billion kilometers from Earth traveling second and heading in the direction of Voyager 1 launched in 1977 and is still carry on until the mid 2020s when it's power to keep it running. It was the interstellar space in August 2012 and is Earth traveling at 16.9 kilometers per AC 79 388 some 17.6 light-years before Voyager 1 but was on a slower then on to Uranus and Neptune. It's mid 2020s it - like Voyager 1 entered is currently 18 billion kilometers from kilometres per second and heading Sirius 8.6 light-years away. And then 2006 the newest and fastest of these still faster due to be gravitational Saturn it's currently 6.8 billion about 16.2 kilometers per second Horizons should reach interstellar space of spacecraft barring any collision or at some point in the future will although they will be long dead they outlive the human race and even the 20th century space hardware. So what do floating around out there somewhere let check out some of our other videos and and also hit the bell notification.