Hey, Vsauce. Michael here. will be the very first year since 1961 that a year when written in Hindu-Arabic numerals and still look the same. probably won't live long enough to enjoy and nine. We will miss out on that. missing? you and I will probably be gone before pyramid in Wemding, Germany. 120 concrete blocks. are only adding one block every 10 years. Since beginning in 1993 they've added only the first three. 3183. The final block placed by our great great great great great great, grandchildren. an opportunity to frolic and play safely Exclusion Zone. alienation, where radioactive will remain at levels too high for safe human activity until not the year 4000, not the 5000, not the 6000. probably in the year 22 000. Possibly within our lifetimes million years, stars like Betelgeuse and Eta Carinae will explode in brilliant supernovas visible from earth. I'm bummed I'm events because for a few weeks it will look almost as if earth has two Suns. Despite being hundreds, their supernovas will shine brighter at night and be visible even during daytime. But the real sky show comes in 3.75 billion years. is full of stars, viewed from the surface of the earth they look like little drops of milk in the sky, which is why we call it the Milky Way Galaxy. But all galaxies are named after milk. Milk, lactose, lactic, ga-lactic, galaxies. And every drop of milk in the sky, is inside our galaxy, the Milky Way. But there's a blurry distant shape. This one. in our galaxy, it is an entirely different Galaxy - the Andromeda Galaxy and it's two-and-a-half million light years away from our own. Milky Way and it is coming our way. at 300 kilometres a second, faster than a bullet. In 2 billion years Andromeda that people will look up at the sky and see this. a scene from a science fiction movie or Incredible and kind of scary. After this scene, the sky will literally as the Milky Way and Andromeda collide, tie-dye. This simulation shows how Way, but keep in mind that you are watching billions of years pass every second. are moving fast but they're also huge and covering even huger distances. will collide in the future but within the briefness of a single human life they appear almost frozen, unmoving. the course of both galaxies will be in a bright glowing centre. a stepchild to what was once Andromeda, part of a new, bigger family called Milkdromeda. It would be so cool to be colliding with another. consumed by a fear of missing out. Because whatever life is around then They may have spectacular nightly views, our time to experience, say, the beginning of the Internet. They will actually miss out on a lot of things. Because the Moon moves one centimetre earth every year, the Moon will no longer be close enough block out the Sun. Future humans or descendants of humans miss out on a chance to ever see for themselves the beauty of the total solar eclipse Long before earth dries up Niagara Falls will dry up. not the water part, but the falls part. Every year the rushing water of Niagara falls one foot backward. it will have eroded all the way to Niagara Falls to enjoy. one inch per ten thousand years. So, certainly by the year 7 million Mount Rushmore, especially its faces, will no longer exist. pulled in or rejected into space, Saturn will no longer have its lovely rings. So, life on earth in the future might have awesome supernovas and but they probably won't have Niagara Falls, Mount Rushmore, total solar eclipses or Saturn's rings. They also won't have you. you have you. Except not all of it. Babies don't begin to form episodic away, meaning that you missed out on. events in your life. Your conception and your birth. But you can experience a bit of those moments right now. When Was I Conceived? dot com and get back the week your parents probably made you happen, as well as the number one week, which may have also been involved. Light travels quickly, the most quickest in fact. of years to escape from the interior of the star It takes time, just like your own gestation in your mother's womb. struggle through a dense stellar jungle of atoms and molecules and electrons that little bit of energy from it as a randomly rolls around like a pinball. years it's random walk finally leads it to the stars' surface, where it pops out into space. In a way, is born. A lucky, tiny tiny tiny surface of a star find themselves on a path that will intersect with earth. end their journey by being absorbed under your own retina. approximate date of your conception into you can find a star that is as many earth as you are old. you are seeing light that left the star the very month you were born or photons that left that star and entered space when one cell. Space is really big and your life is very short but space is so gosh darn big you don't on everything. And as always, thanks for watching.