[music] "The Negro Motorist Green in 1936, was a critical traveling during the '40s, [music] It was created by a Harlem and his colleagues, a listing of restaurants, and private homes that across the country. [music] In a time where Americans African-Americans as they traveled. Although you could you couldn't get or eat in restaurants. Travel was difficult [music] Ben's Chili Bowl, Washington, D.C., was originally called the Minnehaha. It was later featured in the Since 1958, Ben's Chili Bowl of the "Green Book," providing community. [music] I was born in in a segregated hospital. I lived in a segregated and I went to a First, I didn't because all the people And I was comfortable until I realized that I was [music] We couldn't shop downtown You couldn't try on clothes. You couldn't try on hats. Because if you didn't want you to get You know, we oil our hair. And our makeup is didn't want us to try on get makeup on the clothes. I remember being about 7, department store when me a nigger and spat on me. And I couldn't retaliate. I couldn't say anything. I couldn't do anything. I was so angry inside, but I because I knew that it [interposing voices] "The 'Green Book' was a to travel safely, to and gas in a time where guaranteed." [interposing voices] "Washington, D.C., had more than any other city The 1213 U Street was listed that's why we're sitting here Street today. From the very day to the current a safe haven for people." [music] "And we invited and we started with young men that thought They always sat over There was always 10 of them every evening, of life in the community. When someone spilled something was busy, one of them go in the back, get the mop. If we were running out 'Hey, Joe, go get some ice That was really the of the relationship with this that found this to be home. As soon as they professional basketball, for them to keep them here see that game someplace else. We didn't have TVs but that was for them. And that brought in that And then, of the strong close-knit was, when you came you ran into a friend." [music] Particularly in when we would leave we could sit anywhere until you got to And when you get to you had to go to the And I remember being so could not eat on the highway We couldn't eat. We couldn't relieve You either had to hold it there, and then you're wet. When the train stopped, and you would relieve almost like you would [music] And that's the way that white people as a black African-American -- woman, or whatever -- that they not a human being, that I I see people treat Right now, they treat the dogs as black Americans. [interposing voices] "Well, one of the was traveling from southwest And this was right after I mean, they dragged and beat her and crippled her. And one of the things that I felt two things. First, I had to sit in just like you. But second, I also saying, what am I going on the bus and try to And one of the things is that I was not and going to any to try to use the bathroom. I was not going to try to get anything to eat. I knew enough to pack a lunch Now, it was a 10-hour ride down to Jackson, Miss. But, I mean, it trying to not only deal with going to go to the bathroom, but whether if you exercised whether somebody was and try to assault you. That was a reality that I mean, I remember I when I started the real challenge, with the bus boycott, Just in terms of and interstate transportation, telling us, you're And now because of and challenged the developed, you can dream big. You can dream bigger It was important. I mean, the biggest thing and Frank can tell you this -- the biggest thing we were able you cannot block our dreams. Now we couldn't say but we could say, you You can't tell us We're going to kick down [music] "Those barriers could Every trip through during those times It seemed like out to hurt us, just because we were black." [thud] [grunt] [thud] [thud] [thud] [siren blaring] "The assumption is, at And that's not the case. It never stopped." [shouting] "That's a continuous hasn't changed since the that exists here between in the United States. It's like a river and we don't really But at the end something that started back in Young black people Book' in front of them, but We are no longer looking at like that, but you're looking says, these are barriers here. And then people feel that they have a right [shouting] [music] "Tamir was such At 12 years old, he would as big as he was, and him and squeeze all on him." [music] "So that day when on the door, what happened?" "So, I was actually and putting groceries up, Two little boys was shot by the police. And I was like in denial. I'm like, 'No, you're not My kids is at the rec playing.' And my oldest son was He wasn't feeling well. But he ran out right past me. I guess he heard it in And he ran out before trying to get my on, talking about, 'No, And surely enough, as I around a little track my son is laying on the surrounding him. And my daughter is screaming car. And they have my and they put him in the So it was terrible. That's how that The police asked me -- well they didn't ask me, or they were going to put car. Because I was trying They never let me get to him. They also let me ride in the "Of the police car." "Of the ambulance." "Of the ambulance." "So I never even got a chance to hold his hand, to kiss was going to be all right. I don't know what "So he was in the and you were in the front." "Yeah, I was in the "What kind of giving Tamir at the scene?" "I don't know because they "They were surrounding him." "I couldn't really see." "What were the officers doing? They were just "Well they were not letting me go towards him, And I'm telling them, you need They're minors and And like I told you, to stay at the scene of the children or to go with Tamir. I chose to go had to leave two children [music] "Everybody see what They didn't even want My attorney had to threaten And after that it just went worldwide." "What did you What was your reaction to it?" "My son was scared He was scared. And he shrugged his They tried to say he was He wasn't reaching When you roll up fast like "Absolutely." "And that's what I see." "He was just stuck. He was just like -- " "Yeah. Like, what did I do?" "Right." "Yeah. So, yeah, I will never get That's devastating. I play it over and over again. Also, with the picture of and they would not allow me said he was evidence. So I didn't even get a chance No kiss goodbye. No nothing. No feeling him or nothing. So they said he was evidence, And I don't really "What ultimately happened "So -- I had to get Tamir -- well I didn't have to, I I don't really think But I don't want to leave I leave Ohio, so I and my mother with me and have "So to take him everywhere of the rest of your life." "Yeah, he has to go with me. Yeah. Because he just has to go. I wasn't finished I wasn't finished And America robbed me. Yep, they robbed me." "So when people talk what do you call it?" "A nightmare, especially Yeah." [music] Traveling while black means segregation is still And that even though I don't Book" to guide me to and I can stay in any think about the killed while traveling black. A young man, who was involved where he lived, of his fiancee and their Traveling while black, I'm and the police Even though I'm an I could be killed just because the answer that they want. Traveling while black in And I am really frightened while black. I wonder, when does it end? [music]