- I understand that, Your Honor. Yes, ma'am. (clears throat) It is still theft. Yes, ma'am. - (snaps fingers) Gimme. Give me the phone. If you're saying no, then I'll tell you what no costs. Okay. Thank you. Write it up. She'll, she'll sign it. - [Jamie] It's written. - It's taking threats to do - You know, Mike is not I think it's time. I'd like What do you think? - I think more control's not a bad thing. Let me think about it. - Oh, you know, (chuckles) we're gonna have to get- - I said, let me think about it. - Right. (door rattles) (dramatic music) (footsteps pattering) - Jesus. You gotta quit grabbing - She's gonna tear this family apart. I don't need your permission - You're right. You don't. - I'm running for Attorney General. We can't take the risk of someone holding that It's the best thing for the ranch. And I expect your support. I need it. - And you have it. Hit your sister again, I'll put your head (quiet dramatic music) (dramatic music) Ah, I can't wait to see (door clatters) Where you been? I needed you! - I was campaigning. - You've been gone two You can't make one phone call? God knows I've been calling you. - I'm sorry. Hell, you don't even know - I'm sorry. Christina has my phone. - Christina has your When Rip takes Fish and I need you with him. - Hey, why is Fish and - [John] Oh shit. (laughs) - I have campaign stops - No you don't because the first is withdrawing from the race. - What? I'm doing this for you. - No, you're doing it for you, and now you're not doing it anymore. - Hey, I won't quit. My entire career is based around this. I've earned it. - It's not your place to - Don't take this away from me. I've earned this, after after everything I've- - What have you done for me, Jamie? What have you done for me? Besides help me build the Sorry, son, I just don't - You take this away from me. - After everything I've done (Jamie grunts) - All you earned today is that. - [Jamie] No! (grunts) (pair scuffling) - [Rip] Mr. Dutton! - I swear to God, I never met a man more Jamie, you touch me again By this time tomorrow, gonna announce that So if you wanna run against you be my guest. And until you're ready you don't step foot on You're not welcome here. Whoa, easy now. - This is between family. - [Rip] You're gonna Now go get a hotel room, okay? And let him calm down. (dramatic music) (buttons click) - Whenever you're ready. - I realized something last night. The only way to protect my father's legacy is to destroy the man. I didn't think it was gonna be this hard. (dramatic music) (gentle dramatic music) - I suppose I'm to blame You'd want to hurt me. But it's not me you hurt. It's your brother and sister, sit down. You understand, it's as much as it is your own. - Yeah and, if I, if I could just- Explain? What do you wanna explain, Jamie? - Well I, I didn't tell her everything. - You don't get it. You gave her a thread and she can weave it And you'd better get with her and find out exactly what it is she And if what she wants with some story about me, then you act like my fuckin' lawyer. And sue her and her fuckin' You understand? (gentle dramatic music) (saddle rattles) You know the thing about suicide, you, you don't just kill yourself. You kill every memory of you. This'll be all everyone remembers, Jamie. Every second you spend on this Earth will be reduced to how No one will mourn your loss, son, because this isn't loosing your life. This is quitting it. Dad- - Why not? What do you care? It's the single most selfish - This cannot be fixed. (crying) I cannot be fixed. I am married to it. - Your grandfather used to say that you, you can't fix a broken wagon wheel, but you can use the I should have never You needed more time here. I can still give you that. But you need to gimme that rifle, son. The old you is dead the (somber music) Now we start working on the new one. (somber music) (dramatic music) - [Woman] Boy, you made - Oh yeah. How'd I do that? - You didn't tell me you were adopted. - 'Cause I'm not. (paper rustling) This isn't me. I just know lies. I know the lie you told And worse, if that's possible, the lie you had me tell - And what lie is that, son? - That, that's the lie. You called me son and you - Sit down. - [Jamie] You don't get to - Then get the fuck outta my house. You can sit in my living Those are your options. (footsteps thumping) Your mother never got (liquor burbles) You were three months old when he beat her to The woman who loved you and was my wife, and me. I protected you. I taught you, I guided you, and everything your future So you can call me but I will call you son, because I've earned the right, (chuckles) and earning it I've ever done. (slurps) But you're in a unique position, Jamie. Pretty much everyone at whether they're just mad or curious, wonders what life would be You actually have the You're a resourceful man, son, so if he's still alive, I'm And you can look into his rotten... You can look into his eyes, You can choose who you call father. (dramatic music) - The land most suitable to the - If you are discussing purchasing land from the Yellowstone, you'll - Actually, you'll have I have power of attorney over the estate. - If the estate were in Utah. That's where you filed the documents. The state of Montana does not recognize power of attorney issued by other states. - The land is in Montana. but her authority is in Utah. I mean, if she was an As it stands, I am the legal authority representing the Yellowstone, and I approve the sell of that tract. - The hell you will. because if I don't, the Land and you will get paid and you will lose millions on attorneys because I cannot represent the ranch and condemn it at the same time. - Then don't condemn it. - It's not my choice. It's her choice. - It's your choice. What do you choose, Lynelle? - There is no choice anymore, John. There are only options. - That land is mine, and - I'd say that as much as you can. That land is mine. Get it all outta your system. - Lose your pets, Roarke? - Hm? You think you're winning this game? You don't even know the goddamn rules. But don't worry, I'm (footsteps thumping) (door rattles) You don't say hello. You don't say goodbye. You got nothing to say to me, son? - [Beth] He never has - Oh, I have plenty to say, Beth. - Oh yeah? Well, I'm all fuckin' ears. That's what I thought. - [Roarke] (clears throat) Oh, I'd say we pulled the bandaid. - [Lynelle] Yeah, the - We put a pipeline and we did it with the They talk about being too big to fail. They're talking about us. Governor, Jamie. (clears throat) (footsteps patter) - Well. (sighs) That must have been difficult. - Not really. - Stewart running for governor then? - Oh Stewart, Stewart's and then playing nine holes. No Stewart's done. I think the Governor's office is ready for a new generation of leader. I think Jamie can take the responsibility. - Absolutely not, absolutely not! - He's got the name, which and he navigated that with a skill that not even our- - Skill is not his weakness. This is his weakness, it's too much power, and it isn't his name, it's mine. There's other options. Choose one of 'em. - The other options don't want the Montana that you and I do. - Lynelle, there are things, there are things about my things that make him - He's the devil we know, John. I'll take the risk. I mean, unless you wanna run for governor, then I'll gladly endorse you. - No. I just wanted to tell you all this so that you weren't finding out in the newspapers, all right? - Lynelle, I'll take it. - Take it. Take what? - Your endorsement. I'll take it. - You are gonna run for office just so that your son doesn't get it? - That's how bad he'll be for everything you and I worked so hard to protect. He'll destroy it all. - Well, as many of you may have suspected, I believe that I can best The next governor of Montana must hold steadfast to the and yet, never allow what it means to be a Montanan. It is my great honor to as the next governor of Montana. John Dutton. (audience applauds) John. - [Lynelle] (chuckles) (melancholy music) (dramatic music) - You want a whiskey, Daddy? - Why not? - Go fuck yourself. - Make your brother a whiskey. - I will not. - Here, here. Make me another one. (liquor burbles) (ice clinks) - Hey, dad? - You should think twice about canceling the airport funding. - (laughs) I've thought plenty about it. - Well, it's five million for a ranch that loses three. Do the math. there's other revenue - Oh, name one. - Well, I'm getting a - Oh, you're charging the for his inauguration party. - Actually, I'm charging his campaign. - Oh, is that it? Well, You can't benefit from campaign funding. That's how he gets impeached - He's not benefiting from it, Jamie, a Utah LLC is benefiting from it. - [Jamie] We're all going to prison. - You know it is the You aren't already there. - Will you two just shut the fuck up and let me enjoy the last hour of quiet I'm gonna experience This is all your fault. - That's right. - This was never supposed to be me, it was supposed to be you. - Could have been me. - No. - Oh of that, I have no You know, must break my wife's heart to look down and see what a What an embarrassment we are to the sacrifice it took to give us a home. I tell you what, sacrifice is It's what you're gonna do, Jamie. You are gonna sacrifice your ambition. You are gonna sacrifice your fear, your weak self-loathing heart. You're gonna kill all that. And no matter how it scares you're gonna do exactly for the next four years. Exactly. - I never wanted to be a fuckin' lawyer. That's what he wanted me to be. What he thought he needed. The future of warfare Learn to fight with a pen. All right, so I did. And I did. And then I get this acceptance Hell, I never even applied. He applied for me. (laughs) No telling who - Your sister, I would think. - Never thought of that. God, why didn't I think of that? - Because you're too close to it. - My father hates me. Hates me. He hates me for becoming the very thing he asked me to become, no forced me to be. - Do you care that he hates you? His love something you - Evidently not, I've lived But I would like his approval. I want his appreciation - He can't give you that. He resents the tool that because he can't be that tool. He's jealous of you, Jamie, He's scared because the depends on its evolution. If it doesn't evolve with society, it will be devoured by society. - (laughs) I know. I know. I've said that for I have called this emergency to address an egregious In canceling funding for the Paradise Valley and surrounding residential, commercial, and mixed communities, Governor Dutton has violated state law and his sworn oath of office to act in the best interest of the state. He has exposed the state to litigation, which I have been informed is forthcoming. He has robbed the state and thousands of jobs. By doubling taxes on non-residents and initiating a sales he threatens to extinguish our state's single biggest These are callous, calculated actions that are only in the best and will have devastating the people who elected us, the reason we are here. - Progress, it's seems But I never talk about what it means to proceed, to move forward. That's all. Typically we interpret better for us as a people, which is usually better And if we use it in that manner, I agree. But when something benefits you can't use that word anymore. You must use another you must use favoritism. Running a pipeline of an already strained may be progress for the or owners of whatever or for those receiving it, but it could lead to and the people this pipeline runs beneath, which is not progress at all. - And it is for those people, - And for that reason, I cannot support that endeavor, and will use the full weight of my office to prevent it from happening. - That the Attorney General's office, under Article five and section is requesting a Senate (dramatic music) - I didn't expect that. - Me neither. - Thank you, governor. You took my whole speech. That's what I was gonna say. The President visited us last week. He spoke about improving spoke of the schools, our (people chattering) - Oh my God. - What are they saying? (reporters chattering) - This is why I said he is - Don't answer any questions. Just leave. (reporters chattering) - Well, maybe you should take - The what? - Can I have a minute with my daughter? (footsteps thumping) What do you want to know? - What is it, exactly? - (sighs) It's the trash can It lays in a jurisdictional dead zone in a county with a population no jury of your peers, and no Why are you so surprised? Where do you think the men who and attacked our ranch went? You're shocked we found a way of defending ourselves? I'm shocked we need a way, but we do. We always have. Unless we're willing to of our family bleeding into - Jamie knows about it. - Yes. - Okay, I'm gonna repeat that, Dad. Jamie knows about it. - I'm aware Beth. - He will use everything He has made it clear. - Yes, I believe he has. - If there is a place our enemies go and nobody ever knows they went, then they will never come back. Then I think that's the place for Jamie. What do you think, Daddy? (gentle dramatic music)