Y'all want to know how to make a paper Y'all don't know what a paper Well, I'm about to show you. Today onto a plain of glass that has a green So one of the transitions that I use is the paper crumple. That's what we're about to do. I'm going to show you my process in Dragonframe. Let's start with this first frame. For the second frame, So we go on straight into another. Now for this next one, I want to barely do anything. I'm just going to... (tap tap) So for the next one I want to start So I'm just going to take this. Let's get a little bit more dramatic. I want to work with that same wrinkle that I started before because I want to see if I can get All I'm looking at is the edges And I'm also taking into account Before that, those wrinkles are. Generally doesn't have to be exact All right. Now let's really dive into it. I'm going to use two hands. Feel these wrinkles. Just start by crinkling them up right there Is a wrinkle town massacre in the middle Now, our next frame. We need to really start compacting this thing now. Now we're going to let it bunch up. I'm going to hit it like that. Next I'm following you. See, each time I'm following, I'm trying to follow the same So that way it will appear as a somewhat fluid And then it needs to start balling up. I think the only thing to keep into and making sure our ball is landing in that right direction. Now, if we wanted this ball what we could start doing is tearing off pieces of this paper ball. Or the other option would be to I like the idea of making it disappear, So I'm going to take this. I'm gonna You know, I love to tear some stuff. Baby, and just make sure it is somewhat in the same spot Okay. And we want this thing to just disappear So I'm going to keep that process up. Tearing this up, You notice I'm not using onion skins. I hardly ever use onion skins. I prefer to just look at the previous frame because sometimes I get too distracted Tinier and tinier. There we go. And we're eventually going to where we tear this thing out of existence. Right now, it's a little spitball, I think by the next one. We're gonna basically I'm want to one last little itty bitty to be. And we are done. Let's play I like the way that looks. Now let's go and key out the green screen. So we have an alpha channel there. And that way two parts of the video or animation Let's go create a new Adobe After Effects I am most familiar with the After Effects. So to be most effective and efficient that's what I'm going to show y'all I'm going to import what I just Notice up here it's going to tell you Now in your settings you can designate what frame rate Yeah. Sequence footage because that's So what we're going to do now is use keylight to key out the green parts. So I go into Effects&gt;Keying&gt;Keylight. And we want to go to the screen color. And this is where we're going to pick We see what we want to do is in our view right now it's showing us the key, We want to go to Screen Matte. This is going to give us a better picture and what we're keying And what isn't being keyed So I'm going to start by going to the And just by cranking that a little bit, a lot of these nasties. And the last well, is I'm going to create a garbage mat. And I'm going to go to the pen And with the pen tool, outline around the edges of this paper. Looking pretty good. So now I want to make a mask keyframe Click There and see. Once you've made a keyframe, within your timeline, It'll automatically make it the ending for our last frame. I'm just going to pull it back and get rid of it Now I'm going to go over to my view do back go back to final results. And this is all looking pretty. Yippee skippy if you ask me. Let's export this thing okay. Let's hit render. Done. Now you can take this and use it in whatever video that's Premiere, DaVinci Resolve and just place the layer above whatever video layer Well, I hope you all enjoyed this. If you want more details Yeah, There you are. You like this? And if you dig this content, why don't you Till next time. Y'all keep it real