Director Wang Patient with dystocia Her husband's phone kept ringing No one answered otherwise Otherwise, let's give her surgery first. If this continues She and the child can't be saved. She is unconscious now. And it's not on the rescue list. Signature of immediate family member Are you worried if there is a problem? Wait it hurts Died again Save me Hands off My clothes got dirty. It's no use asking me Who told your husband not to come? it hurts Fu Xing Fu Xing, where are you? I'm going to have a meal first Watch it. If a person dies Contact the closure room Save me Xiao Ran Where is Fu Xing? elder sister My brother-in-law said Save the baby in your belly Let's sign the divorce agreement first. impossible I don't believe Fu Xing would do this to me. You are close to pretending in marriage Now? Pregnant again Fu Xing It's good enough that I'm willing to spare your life Sign now Don't make Chuanxing angry It has caused trouble for our Jin family I don't have any. not good The child is lacking oxygen elder sister If you don't sign child died in your stomach. Save the Children Rescue it The patient is in critical condition save big one Or keep small Brother-in-law The situation is critical now save big one Still keep it small save big one Still keep it small Such a small thing Don't bother me anymore Hang up let's go It's too late Let's go to the emergency room, Director Wang Brother-in-law My sister said She's sorry for you She wants to be with Pei Yi Yi Went to live abroad Even the divorce agreement is ready. Jin Shanshan You didn't even have an explanation. Now you want to fly far away You are dreaming Brother-in-law Hello, President you're wrong President there Brother, you Can't you see it? cough cough Anan Hello, President This latest contract Fu Isn't that my dream company? this I want to talk in person What about things? Here President worldwide The best lollipop It's all here Bro, your teeth are broken. you can't sleep in the middle of the night because of the pain. Don't come to me for acupuncture All right brother listens to you. That's pretty good. Mommy Let's go to grandpa's house. Seven years Some things It's time to end it Jin Shanshan How come you're back? You weren't In the hospital You got the divorce agreement. you went back excitedly. don't care about my life or death I bought that one. The Doctor Who Greeds for Tiger Glory Let him tell you Me and my child All dead Okay, Jin Shanshan How dare you lie to us? I won't lie to you I'm afraid I Can't live till now? Your story back then The city is in turmoil Now you have the face to come back The truth of what happened back then How I know You know better than me I'm coming today Just want to take it back My mother's inheritance Legacy Your mother's buns What legacy is there? Jin Zhiguo Who doesn't know you are A family made from the wife's dowry The villa you live in now And your company Which one is not my mother's? you presumptuous Don't bully my mom little things Adults are talking Are you okay? You have no right to interrupt. Uneducated things Sister, don't cry Don't cry Liu Hongxia, you are going too far Today I've gone too far. What can you do to me? Mommy is not angry I'll protect you and your sister. You little brat What to wear Within 1 minute Put security in place Security? It really performed. 30 seconds Kick them out. 20 seconds Ten seconds They are coming President The person you want has arrived I'm afraid of crowds. My bodyguards are all trained. Don't eat toasts Drink a penalty drink This little thing Don't think you paid for the actors. I will be afraid of you actor This row International Sanda Champion This row International Taekwondo Champion The last row International wrestling champion My future girlfriend He is the president of Fu Group. Try hitting me. OK I meet your requirements Ouch, it hurts Oops, I was wrong. Stop fighting Child Fu Xing and Xiaoran Coming soon We will definitely not forgive you. oh Then I'll wait and see. dad Fu Xing and I are back to see you. dad Fu Xing and I are back to see you. She and her baby Not dead Fu Xing How come you are here? Your legs If it wasn't for you How are my legs? It might be like this Too It's retribution. If it wasn't for you How can my child and I Falling into such a desperate situation It's just you and that wild man Just fly away All this You choose it yourself. Initially You betrayed me first I clearly asked Xiaoran to look for you. Tell you as long as you turn back Baby, I don't mind. I see you are not idle either. How about it The taste of sister-in-law Not bad, right? Can't let her talk about what happened back then Parents What's wrong with you? Get up quickly You let go Xiao Ran You are here This woman To kill us Good son-in-law You have to make the decision for us. You haven't let go of my parents. It's fine if you betray Fu Xing Now you're going to hurt my parents. We've been thinking of you. You want me to die, right? Jin Zhiguo Your Jin Shanshanen wedding is right here. You don't want to be in front of him. I put all those All the scandals of the Jin family Oh, good, good Stop talking. Stop talking. Isn't it just a small inheritance? I'll go get it mom Jin Shanshan The person who did the ugly thing It's obviously you Until now You don't even have an explanation? Fu Xing We have been in love for 10 years You are lying about a ridiculous rumor. Shattered the gap between us All the past explain Explain what Explain how I Did Eye Education and Heart Food Love the Wrong Person? Jin Shanshan You really are If you don't accept my toast, I'll have to drink a penalty, right? Sunflower Mommy Stop quarreling. What did you just call me? An'an, stop yelling He is not your father. Money in bank card It's already been used up There are only two villas left. My mother and I are really mother and daughter. Even the way you look at people All the same difference good It's done. Let's go safely. stop You eloped with Pei Yi Yi Now it's back in style Do you think I have an injury on my leg There's nothing I can do about you You have an injury on your leg I have no idea I come back But to repay myself Just an innocent OK Then I'd like to see How do you prove Don't worry Just a leg injury It can be cured You are my sister A child with a man named Pei Yi you actually said it was just a leg injury Do you know A Xing? To heal a leg injury How much torture did he suffer? I can really cure You shut up Kids are kids Things that can't be put on the table Jin Xiaoran You remember You are the real woman. Enough You all bully Mommy I want to bankrupt Fumin Group Just you A baby doll you also want Beijing The biggest Fu bankruptcy joke computer elder brother This will allow participants to Did he pay the price? Pretend I'd like to see How are you Embarrassing myself in front of A Xing Mr. Fu Not good Stock Market Crash us We lost One hundred million What 100 million This child More than just behavior Even the appearance Very similar to me when I was a kid Could it be I didn't learn from you A Xing Ignore this little thing. Go check it out What's happening in the stock market Isn't it normal for the stock market to be volatile? Only one hundred million elder brother This seems to be a lot of scum. No impact Then continue Mr. Fu What Lost 5 billion Go find out who did it. No need to check I did it. Jin Shanshan Look, you put your child What has education become? It's just full of nonsense Believe it or not Pingping Mom knows You want to vent your anger on your mother? But for this kind of person No need Let's go Dreamland you really Don't you want me and mommy anymore? Have some backbone Now his brain is filled with water These are the tears he shed when he chased his wife. Anan Are you okay? This child How could there be The same birthmark as mine Are you okay? Could it be Ping Anan are my children Don't worry, mom. Anan is fine It's fine. Let's go home In fact, today Me and A Xing want to talk about it. Engagement That's good Engagement We'll talk about it later. Jin Shanshan suddenly came back this time I don't know if there are any more Other purposes What happened before There are still many doubts that need to be verified Mr. Fu Find it now The miracle doctor is in a Chinese medicine clinic Only a miracle doctor can heal your legs You see when we're going there? Now A Xing Jin Shanshan You were lucky before. This time I absolutely won't I let you go easily. Go play Dr. Jin You are here curator There will be a big shot later he'll see the legs Thank you for your hard work. You can rest assured I definitely Do your best to heal Try to bring Ping Anan Do a paternity test Mr. Fu You are suspicious Those two kids are yours. Cut the crap Remember to keep this a secret. This is Why are you here? Why can't I be here? Mr. Fu You are here This is the divine doctor's junior sister You know Unknown Just a coincidence There is such a tacit understanding between you two Madam Master What do you want to eat in the evening? Sweet and Sour Spare Ribs Madam and Master are really Have a tacit understanding So enviable Just a coincidence I don't need to eat dinner today. I'm full of sugar. Mr. Fu The reputation of a miracle doctor You must have heard of it. This is the divine doctor's junior sister Medical skills Nature is not bad or She'll show you Then there is Dr. Jin What's the situation with Mr. Fu's legs? Let me be more specific. What is the situation You don't understand, do you? Mr. Fu If you don't If you explain your condition well, Please ask someone else for help. So many years Her temper hasn't changed at all. I'm really scared of her. It was raining on a night 7 years ago The car was driving too fast Didn't see clearly So I hit Doctor says Nerve damage in the legs Can't move Seven years ago It was also rainy the night I had a difficult birth Is it that day? impossible That day he clearly talked to Jin Xiaoran again on the phone Is there any pain? No I got three injections but still no response. It seems that his leg disease Very severe Do you feel it now? without Now it seems a bit After so many years Your medical skills have become more advanced. She is still the same as before What do you want to do? Can do the best Such a proud person The leg is injured to this extent These years must have been tough. Back then you A Xing She just wants to kill you. A Xing She just wants to kill you. Jin Xiaoran You can eat whatever you want Don't talk nonsense I didn't talk nonsense You are my fiance I certainly hope you're okay. But my sister is different. She came back from abroad this time It's to take revenge on us. revenge Jin Xiaoran So Are you admitting that Did something disgusting happen? Jin Shanshan I know you are I'm with A Xing That's why I wanted to take revenge on him. But have you ever thought about I've earned your sins over the years Take care of him So there will be affection What's going on? Just come and look at me Xiaoran Jin Shanshan, she won't hurt me besides Engaged to you It's only temporary In order to protect the Jin Group Enough I don't want to care about your shit. Fu Xing You can treat it if you want. Don't want to punish people Miss Jin That was Doctor Jin. It's for Mr. Fu's treatment. Mr. Fu's legs Finally he became conscious A Xing I'm Southwest Graduated from a top medical university Your legs Even I am helpless She didn't have one People with medical qualification certificate How can it be cured? Acupuncture is Anancient art. What's left behind If you don't understand, don't talk nonsense. Why don't I understand There is a miracle doctor in the acupuncture world Very mysterious Even if he wants to cure She has to be the one to treat it. But The miracle doctor Mysterious whereabouts There's no one. Have you seen her in person? Even if I can't find a miracle doctor Nor can we let these Let the quack doctor come and treat it Miss Jin Although it is difficult to find a miracle doctor Godly Doctor Sister Treating bone injuries is also a must Those so-called foreign experts I'm afraid I can only look up to it. You don't have to say anymore Can't find anyone What's the point of saying so much? Oh, let's go. The Doctor's Junior Sister It's right here What Miracle Healer I can't come because of health reasons. Let Dr. Jin come instead You said Jin Shanshanen She is the junior sister of the miracle doctor Absolutely true curator You still call Please confirm with the doctor So as not to be deceived by some people Shut down It's okay, I'll call The director turned off the phone when he called Turn on the phone when you call What are you pretending to be? I have a better relationship with the doctor. I have another number for her. Hello baby Where is it? Visit the clinic Jin Shanshan Recent medical Rumored Academic Sister It should be you. What about the profession of doctor? But it's about human life. You don't need to use these fragile and dirty Means to the superior Okay, then we'll try it ourselves. OK I'm going to check it out today How did you get exposed? The divine doctor is here Mommy you actually said you're the miracle doctor So brave I am really a miracle doctor. I also taught Mommy how to use medicine. Legs in the fog I can definitely cure it. Director Wang Is this little girl really a miracle doctor? Mr. Fu is not satisfied with you saying I have never seen the true face of the miracle doctor. However, Chinese medicine is extensive and profound She is young Learn medical skills and become a miracle doctor It's also incredible Hey, I just said it They are liars. Before things are clarified Don't jump to conclusions I can contact you. Liu Yong, the apprentice of the miracle doctor Let him confirm Liu Yong Liu Yong, who has won a major award in the medical field I'm calling right now. Master Liu, I am There are people pretending to be miracle doctors here What How dare someone pretend to be my master? My master is still in retreat. The nonsense has been exposed. Is this your mother? Let you say If so If you hurt A Xing's leg I can't forgive you Want your life kid Are you sure you didn't spill it? Only a few days away You just forgot about me master Aren't you in seclusion? Okay, I have things to do. Even if the master is not here You should also practice your medical skills well. No laziness allowed Yes, yes, Master, don't worry. Look at many places I didn't lie, did I? Mommy said Old friends must be honest Children don't lie. It seems that what happened back then Still need to verify It's just a phone call What if you guys are in collusion? Cheated us? Jin Xiaoran Now the truth is out Hurry up and say sorry to Anan Pingping Anan Director, what kind of drink is this? My special peanut drink Ping Anan is allergic to peanuts Oops Mr. Fu is also allergic to peanuts. Could it be They are really my children. My Mr. Fu Mr. Fu You finally woke up Mr. Fu It's all my fault for being so careless Next time next time Hey I Mr. Fu What are you doing? Shut up If you keep talking, I'll sell you to Africa. Help me to the safe ward Pingping Anan It's your mother who didn't take good care of you. Shanshan Don't worry they will wake up safely. These years I'm not taking care of them. They support me. But I am always careless Hurt them I It's really unqualified. Shanshan You've done good enough If it weren't for Fu Xing You won't suffer so much. Pingping Anan abroad These years Because there is no father Always being pointed at Thanks to you for supporting us. Thanks fool You know my intention Don't be so polite. For you I am willing I just want to see peace and tranquility Grow up healthy I'm already grateful I have everything now. Including me Of course, including you You are my best Shanshan No matter what happens I will always be with you What a loving couple! What are you doing here? I'm not coming How can I see you? Such a loving scene I thought that year I misunderstood you Even thought it was safe. It's really my child. I think about it now I'm so ridiculous Pingping Anan A father like you If you had come in time Signed the emergency form Maybe we still have a chance So you admit it, right? Fu Xing, are you still a man? Do you know that peace and tranquility is Ping Anan, what happened? What is Ping Anan? It's none of your business A cold and selfish person like you Never in this life Such a cute child No wonder you At all costs And give birth to the child This is you and Pei Yi Yi It's planned, right? Jin Shanshan You really make me feel sick Me I love to pretend We have deep feelings So ah Mr. Fu, please stop being an eyesore here. I was really blinded at first. I like you Jin Shanshan It's best not to appear again. In front of me Let's go Why don't you tell him? Ping Anan is his child I can't forgive him back then. What I did to my kids He is such a cold-blooded person. How can I let him Becoming a father of a child? Then you'll be willing to let him exempt you from the game. For a lifetime? The truth of what happened back then How I will re-investigate Flash Drink I know You just said you loved me Not true But I want to tell you I am willing to wait Wait until you get hurt The day of healing Mommy, where are we? Anan Are you allergic to peanuts? Was taken to the hospital How is it now? Mommy, it's ok. Mommy My sister and I are fine. I'm fine. Scared my mother to death The Death of Jin Shanshan's Mother And my grandfather's death How's the check? Mr. Fu You guessed it right It is indeed related to the Jin family. It is not clear who exactly it is Good to know Old Lady Mr. Fu The old lady said If you don't get engaged to Jin Xiaoran again she She hanged herself at the door of Fu's house I'm engaged to Jin Xiaoran It can make the Jin family relax their vigilance Maybe you can find something. Useful clues Tell the old lady Just say I agree Mr. Fu The paternity test results are out. Jin Shanshan You really betrayed me I want you to change one Paternity test report The hospital has regulations Reports cannot be changed at will This is responsible Here is 100,000 Don't worry No third person will know Fu Xing I will never let you know Pingping Anan is your child A Xing I heard you're allergic. Is that okay? No big deal This is the work profile code Assistant Mo is really I know you're sick. And let you handle the work I'll take you back and have a good rest. Thank you for your help. I'll push you Slow down, An'an It hurts so much You want to murder me? Anan Are you okay? Mommy fine But this aunt has something wrong Her blood vessels are about to burst I can't live more than three days. You little cutie A Xing I don't know this child. Who taught me? Don't tell me you hurt me She cursed me to death Your tea tastes really good. My daughter kindly reminds you It's your blessing Believe it or not I wish Don't come here crying. Ask her A Xing I'm your fiancee. They bully me like this That means I look down on you Children's Words Why do you take it seriously? The more you get angry The more your life is in danger Oh, did you see it? She's still cursing me to death Okay, An'an Let's ignore her. Let's go home You won't be there in three days Will definitely come to ask me Enough, I'm tired. Go back and rest Anan, you have worked hard today. What do you want to eat? Mommy Anan wants to eat pasta Good mother will do it for you Good Wait a minute Come in and talk Give you the evidence you want About our photos in the hotel It's synthetic, right? The photo is real No traces of synthesis were found What? How is this possible? Jin Xiaoran used it again More advanced methods She found someone to disguise herself Here There are clues about those two people. She wanted to frame me It really took a lot of effort The Jin family's scandal But these That's right Remember to tell Fu Xing If he doesn't help the Jin family It's easier for you to check I'm afraid that he will know the truth. Follow me and Pingping Anan fool They are not ordinary children. It's not that easy Stolen All right Hey Fu Xing Let's meet I have something important To show you OK, I know. See you at the old place then. Assistant Mo prepares the car What happened to A Xing? Jin Shanshan has something to talk to me about I want to see what tricks she has. You'd better not go. The first time someone personally Cooking for you You try it now Just now My hands were burned. Eat it yourself Don't wait for me Jin Shanshan I have paid so much for Fu Xing I don't care what you will do You won't meet Find me today What's the important thing? This is the evidence from that year Open it and have a look. What are you explaining to me? No one wants to be wronged. baby Be Aquaman That's not good. Be Aquaman A lot of things Everyday Jin Shanshan That's what you call evidence How is this possible? Madam, I'm sorry. I'll help you pick it up It's ok, go and do your work I see It must be the waiter just now He knocked over my bag. Then I changed my USB drive The waiter has nothing to do with you. Why did he change your USB drive? This USB drive was given to me by Pei Yi Yi He can't lie to me. Pei Yi Yi again Do you trust him that much? I used to believe you Fu Xing The most important person in my life my sweetheart My husband But they help outsiders to deal with me You're questioning me. Don't dare What is my identity? How can I blame Mr. Fu? I disturbed you today. anyway Find out what happened seven years ago yes Really delicious Uncle Pei Yi Your craftsmanship is really Very good Such a sweet mouth Eat now It will be cold By the way, Pingping You don't like peanut oil. Uncle changed the walnut oil for you Don't be picky about food. Thank you uncle Pei Yi Yi is really good perhaps I can try to accept him. Shining is back How was the chat with Fu Xing? Don't mention him. Hey you today Aren't you busy with other things? Go now Thank you for your hard work today Oh, that's right. Call me if you have any problem I've always been Thank you Don't say thank you Gone See you later Let's go My legs suddenly stopped moving. Contact the doctor now Sit, sit, sit Uncle Pei Yi is good to Mommy Be good to mommy It's not that we have too much land. I think the second male lead fine no Mommy can only be nice to daddy Anan Mommy When did you join the Make peace Ex-wife Come and see Mr. Fu. His legs are stiff. But the two children are at home alone. Mommy Go and save the fog. My brother and I will behave well. OK Then I'll go first Mr. Fu, please hold on a little longer. Ex-wife The ex-wife will be here soon. I asked you to call a doctor Why did you call Jin Shanshan over? No, I think The former wife's medical skills She is more skilled than those doctors. and You two can't Can we communicate more? Ex-wife, hurry up Show it to Mr. Fu Help him up first. Oh well Jin Shanshan You pressed my leg. Excuse me I didn't mean it. Why don't you lend a hand? I'm not thinking Let you two Get close, get close Wooden head never mind Let me show you the legs first. Jin Shanshan Do you know I hate you every day I miss you every day Know Me too Listen, there is only Simple doctor-patient relationship After your leg is healed We'll never meet again. There's nothing wrong with your legs. Let me help you up. Brother, take me to find my mother. Is it good? My sister is good Mommy will be back soon. Just take me there. Oh, there's nothing I can do about you. You sit first I'll take you to see Assistant Meng. Nudi and mommy are back together Not suitable for children Aren't you a child too? Also said I Okay, sister. You should be relieved now. rest assured Let's go elder brother Let's not disturb Mommy and Duodi, right? Why are you two here again? The haunting What are you doing here? Of course you came to find me in the fog. I tell you Fuxing is not your foggy place If you dare to admit it again I'll throw you to the dogs. You scared my sister What's the skill? Since you stole someone else's husband Just watch What do you mean? Dreamland and Mommy Already reconciled You don't stand a chance. What impossible Don't be angry, or your heart may burst. Why do I still have The feeling of my heart beating faster It must be too hot. It was just an accident Thank you today I didn't expect you to be such a skilled doctor. Things You Don't Know There are many more Jin Shanshan How can you be so shameless? How dare you approach A Xing? Jin Shanshan How dare you approach him? How can you be so shameless? Jin Xiaoran, stop going crazy here Just get close to him. You still hit me You didn't get the truth Just full of nonsense It's time to fight You stole someone else's husband. Can't see Don't be an eyesore here. Mommy and Wudi have reconciled Little cutie Shut up You go back first A Xing I am your fiancee You let me go back Jin Shanshan She just came to heal my leg. Don't think too much No, anyone can. She can't How did she hurt you before? I'll say it one last time We are innocent Let's go home safely. Mommy, we can't leave. This aunt's condition Very serious Did you see it? She's still cursing me. She just wanted me to die. A kind reminder to you You open your mouth to slander her People like you won't be punished. Who gets punished? You are morally corrupt You should be the one to be punished. I Let's go upright and sit upright How could it be me who was punished? doctor What's wrong with me Ma'am, you have a massive ruptured blood vessel. There's nothing we can do. possible No way, you must be lying to me. You must be in cahoots with them. Get out! Get out! Ma'am, please don't get excited. Otherwise, there will be danger to life Xiao Ran Report I saw it and it is true I didn't expect that the name Anan's little girl What he said turned out to be true A Xing impossible What should I do? Please save me This disease Even if Hua Tuo were alive It's no use. Ma'am, don't be too sad. Just enjoy it The last time impossible I won't die Fu Xing, hurry up Save me Fu Xing Miss Jin Now there is a lady She said she could cure And she's right outside the door That little cutie That Anan Anan said She saw my illness at a glance She can definitely cure me. Why are you still hurting? Go quickly Anan I trust you I believe you can cure me. I beg you Save me, please You just scolded my sister I want her to treat you too late. Jin Shanshan I am also their aunt. You can't do this to me We don't have an aunt like you. That's all misunderstanding Fu Xing My sister won't It's like watching someone die without helping them, right? Fu Xing Your sister has always been kind-hearted. As for whether I am willing to save you That depends on what she and Anan think. Sister, I really know I was wrong. I beg you to let Anan Save me, please Then tell me where you went wrong. Mommy She really doesn't have much time left. No more treatment I don't have a car anymore. Jin Xiaoran This time it's peace of mind We can't just stand by and watch someone die. But what did you do? You know it in your heart I remember all those things. Please make it clear What happened back then? I can't talk to you You don't believe it anyway. I Please let me give you the acupuncture. Mr. Fu You said This little girl She can really heal Miss Jin Quiet Mommy, she's fine. That is, we still need Cooperate with treatment Assistant Mo, call a doctor quickly She's just exhausted. Fainted I'll take her back to rest. Are you sure she's okay? She is just a child after all. I have top quality here. Medical Team If you don't mind No need Mr. Fu may have forgotten I am a doctor myself No need to save lives Always rely on others Jin Shanshan, I just have good intentions You don't have to do this. Mr. Fu's kindness It's a bit too late. If Mr. Fu really wants to thank me Saved your little wife Then take some Real money to give to Anan I'm not the Virgin Mary The price of saving lives Not low Assistant Mo Transfer 3 million to her account Let's go flat Jin Shanshan I guess there's some misunderstanding about me. What happened back then? Fu Xing Am I okay now? Yes You are out of danger. This time You must thank Anan Mr. Fu This is Miss Jin's cell phone. It seems that I didn't take I delivered it to her myself. Fu Xing What Pei Yi Yi found the evidence I tell you At all costs I need this evidence too. Did you hear that? Jin Shanshan God wants me to live Then I will live well Then take away everything that belongs to you How come you are here? You forgot your phone. Thank you for your hard work. Come in and have some fruit. So many years have passed I still remember the fruits I like to eat Don't misunderstand that there are only oranges at home Mommy, have you forgotten? Inside the refrigerator There are lots of fruits. Anan Mommy is really killed by you Fu Xing certainly thought I still like him Sister, let's go back to the bedroom and read. Mr. Fu Or I'll go see the kids. How can I help you? Shanshan I think What should be between us? Misunderstanding I Mr. Fu You're getting married soon. Now tell your ex-wife these words Not suitable Actually, I'm not real Want to marry Jin Xiaoran I just want to check What happened between us And your mother's death Why are you telling me this? Shanshan In fact, my heart Excuse me Fu Xing, you won't come back. I will die for you to see Good to know Then I'll come to see you often. good A Xing, your father died early. I'm older too. My only wish now Just watching you get married and have children If you don't agree I'm going to die now aunt You mustn't talk like that. A Xing and I are still waiting for you Live a long life Holding grandchildren? good What happened back then Related to Jin Xiaoran After the engagement, she let down her guard matter There may be a breakthrough Okay, I agree to get engaged to her. A Xing, your engagement party with Xiaoran I invited all Top celebrities With Xiao Ran Go buy some nice clothes She is dressed beautifully Our Fu family also has a bright future. Thank you, auntie Xiao Ran Have a good chat with A Xing I'm tired, I'm going to rest Yeah The day after tomorrow is the engagement party Buy yourself some clothes A Xing, will you go with me? I have some unfinished business. Go by yourself Oh well You have to take care of your body. Seven years ago How to handle Mr. Fu This is a bit old. So now No clue yet Speed up manpower Move fast Mother Why did you bring us here? Sister, you forgot The day after tomorrow is our birthday Mommy, bring us here He must have bought us presents. Pingping is right What does Anan want? Mom bought it for you Anan wants a pretty little skirt Skirt There is a nearby Clothing customization Let's go and see Let's go Which one does Miss Jin like? Hey, the threshold of your store It's really low What cats and dogs Everyone can come in. You are a person who destroys bridges after crossing them. Everyone can come Why can't I come? Who are you calling to destroy the bridge? Garlic is not as good as you If it weren't for my sister's help You've already lost your temper. you She was ugly to begin with. Once you get angry, you are no different from the devil. I really don't know How many eyes does my fog have? I actually like you Brother, don't let you say that. Ai Di and Mommy have reconciled What do you call fog? the day after tomorrow I'll hold it with me Engagement ceremony Fu Xingyao and Jin Xiaoran Engaged The day after tomorrow I was born in peace and quiet Jin Shanshan What are you expecting? impossible I can't possibly get engaged to you. If you don't believe You guys can come and watch me the day after tomorrow. Engagement ceremony I see I'm afraid you don't dare to come. There is nothing I dare not come We will definitely come OK I'm afraid you won't dare to come. Who among the family members understands? Found by two children Attended the engagement party the day before yesterday I don't know, I thought I had What serious illness? Mommy, don't look like that. Today is your day to be slapped in the face Face slap I think it's a disgraceful scene. Mommy You have to hold your head high Go get the fog back Don't talk nonsense Let others hear Misunderstood Jin Shanshan, why are you here? Anan Why are you all here? Help Mommy get the fog back It's Jin Xiaoran We must come to participate Your engagement party Anan, I'm here to snatch you away I told her to stop talking nonsense Avoid being misunderstood by others I see Shining seems angry My, you look disappointed. Would it be true? Wait for mommy to grab you mediocre Don't talk nonsense Mr. Fu Children's Words Don't take it seriously. I wouldn't mind Shanshan me elder sister You are here to bless It's me and A Xing's. I wish you a happy marriage Have a baby soon Then I'll borrow your good words. A Xing, there are guests waiting over there. Let's go over there Jin Shanshan You are here Don't think about leaving easily Jin Shanshan You are here too I can warn you Today is your sister's Engagement Ceremony You'd better not mess around. Dead girl You want to mess up Xiaoran's good things I'll make you pay for it. It seems that last time Lessons are not enough Seven years ago Jin Shanshan eloped with a wild man Now I come to Dazha to get engaged again This is regret I must regret it. The two girls of the Jin family are fighting for one boy There's going to be some good shows next. Jin Shanshan Look at the good things you do Why don't you talk about yourself? What good things have you done? My mother is still alive You just take this bad woman Marry into the family This damn girl How do you talk? dad Are you okay? I'm fine This is really treasonous. You yourself Vixen flirts with other people How dare you educate me? elder sister You're because I don't want Together with A Xing So that's why I do this. Jin Xiaoran That's about it. I think a garbage bag can't hold as much as you can Xiao Ran Don't be afraid I wonder who dares to bully you. This shameless woman Drive out Mom, please don't do this. Seven years ago She's willing to divorce you. I want to have a baby with a man Two kinds of I pissed off my own mother. Such a woman You speak for her. Divorce seven years ago I didn't mention it. besides My mother's dead doctor I'll check it out myself You didn't ask for divorce. It was you who put the divorce agreement Gave it to Jin Xiaoran A Xing My sister must have remembered it wrong. Seven years ago But it caused a sensation in the entire Cloud City. Who doesn't know You must be arguing. The Jin family has a daughter like you. What a scum yes People like you Why don't you just die? Don't bully my mom Little cutie I think you should die too. Anan How dare you bully my sister? Mommy I want you to look good Don't be afraid Mommy's the boss OK I'm going to show you the truth. Obviously let the waiter Replaced the USB drive Why is there another Jinshanshan? Jin Xiaoran asked you to participate This engagement ceremony I guess he has no good intentions. I know Fortunately last time I made a backup on the USB drive Take this. Fortunately, Pei Yi Yi made a backup Jin Xiaoran Today I will let everyone Look at your true self Oh no, the child is lacking oxygen. elder sister I see You still sign it. Don't let your children Death in your own hands No, this video is synthesized. Jin Xiaoran Everyone can tell the difference between true and false You are deliberate Let me separate from Fu Xing So that I can marry into the Fu family This method is really despicable Disgusting I didn't expect it It was actually done by Jin Xiaoran You can only know a person's face but not his heart. It seems so Jin Shanshan was really wronged But this only proves She was forced to divorce Nor can it prove She didn't go astray. So this is She's going to give it to me that day. Watch the video It seems I misunderstood her. Could it be that what happened with Pei Yi Yi Oh, don't believe her. She is forgiving me. Jin Shanshan You old woman You have divorced him. And approached him again and again I really don't know how to take it cheaply Who said no one wants my mommy? Yuncheng Lijia People's Republic Free house and a Bentley Yuncheng Pei Yi Family Free limited edition jewelry set Yuncheng Huo Family Send a black card Qin Family in Yuncheng Cash 100 million yuan Oh my god The Four Families of Yuncheng They're all gathered together This is too rare. Have to say The Fu family has strong connections. This Jin family I'm afraid it will develop Xiao Ran You really bring honor to our Jin family. Later See who dares to look down on our Jin family After the engagement party The Jin family is going to the city Completely famous. Our good days Coming Soon A Xing The face you gave me It's too big. The four major families are rarely seen Simultaneous appearances Today, everyone came Send me a gift You are so thoughtful. I don't know these people. That Who are these gifts for? It's not for Mr. Fu. Naturally it's for you mom But I don't know These people from the four major families May I ask you about these gifts? Who is it for? We were ordered to send it to Miss Jin. Miss Jin Is it really sent to me? They're talking about Miss King. I didn't say you What are you excited about? Wouldn't you say Miss Jin in their mouths It's your mother, right? An old woman with a child How is it possible? Someone gave her a gift. that is In our Jin family, we only have Jin Xiaoran This lady Seven years ago You have been Kicked out of the house elder brother Mommy was bullied What to do? younger sister Don't rush Let the bullets fly for a while My brother has a solution. The Jin family has scum like you. It's disgusting. elder sister How can you say such a thing? A Xing Today is our engagement party. You can't let your sister be so crazy My mommy doesn't have a Miss Jin in his mouth My mommy Not that bad woman. What do you say? The four families It's obviously for me. Narcissism I think it's Jin Shanshan's narcissism. You little kid If you don't get out of my way I'm not being polite to you. Jin Xiaoran You dare to touch my child? elder sister You really protect me. These two children how You had a fight with your child's father. Come to my engagement party Looking for a man So much nonsense good If they If I really come for you I'm gonna get out of here. How confident are you now? I will have more face in a while This is the Li family in Yuncheng The betrothal gift to Miss Jin The dowry given to me Xiao Ran Could it be that the four major families They are all here to hire you. Isn't this embarrassing for the Fu family? You're not right. Our little girl is naturally beautiful It's normal for the four princes to like it Just right Let the Fu family know too Our little How popular is it? Mr. Li I didn't expect you to be so generous. The flowers you picked I love so much Mr. Li Stop making trouble Everybody's watching. How bad! Who messed with you? Stop acting. I know you like me These betrothal gifts are given to me. But I have been with A Xing Together You really like to give yourself a face Jin Shanshan plastering Miss Jin I have admired you for a long time Please give me a chance I Mr. Li actually likes Second marriage of Jin Shanshan Unexpectedly, Jin Shanshan So popular now Who just said that? Get down on your knees and crawl out You are dreaming What vision you actually like this Hedong Lion. Fortunately, my mom divorced you. Brother, don't say that. You will always be my fog I will help you with mommy Retrieved Mr. Li Thank you for your kindness But I can't accept it Miss Jin Fu Xing has already It's your past tense. Please give me a chance I won't mind Mr. Li She has rejected you. If you continue to pester me It's a bit unmannerly. Miss Jin has divorced you. You're still meddling in other people's business. It's even less graceful. Mr. Li If you have something to say, please talk it over Miss Jin This Mr. Fu Invite you to attend His engagement party with a woman Why are you giving him face? I'm not Since you and Mr. Fu So in love All right then Just be good Lock it together Why are you coming out to hinder us? Miss Jin If you will marry me Then our Li family All property It will be all right Put it in your name The Li family's property Not worth mentioning at all Even one tenth of my Fu family Not even What about my Qin family? Qin Shao The son of the Qin family is very mysterious Appeared in Today, this kind of occasion Qin Family and Fu Family Equal in strength Or competition? Now there's a good show to watch Miss Jin Give me a chance to take care of you OK Oh my god Jin Shanshan is so happy If it were me, I would definitely marry Mr. Qin, you What are you doing Get up quickly Qin Muzhi You usually go against me Never mind Still in front of me Propose to my ex-wife Mommy I think these foggy areas All good Just think about it. This is not easy for me Just put them together What It's because the slag fog is blind I just sent a message to these people Let them find my mommy I am the president of Ping An Group. Who wants to marry my mom? I can promise him Thirty percent of the shares This kid actually said he was President of Ping An Group Is this possible? I heard that the president of Ping An Group Mystery Never appeared In the public eye No matter what It can't be a child. Pingping is indeed President of Ping An Group Mr. Fu You haven't been fighting with me. Ping An Group's shares investment I'm afraid you can't even think of it. What you are striving for now It was you yourself at the beginning Abandoned people This is actually true It's incredible. If Mr. Qin wants to propose Then you have to ask the person involved. Willing or not Mr. Fu is an ex-husband There are so many things to manage. A Xing Mr. Qin said Marriage Let my sister decide for herself. We continue our engagement party Then wish Mr. Fu Happy Engagement Have a baby soon Thank you Mr. Qin for creating ee We will definitely be happy Cancellation of engagement party We'll talk about it another day What do you mean? Mr. Qin You don't know Is it not appropriate for men and women to touch each other? Fu Xing This is jealousy Mr. Fu is really domineering I think this matter Miss Jin should be allowed to choose for herself You choose him or me? Mr. Qin We will still be good friends in the future If you have shoulder pain in the future You can also call me I respect your choice As long as you don't get married I'll chase you for one day Lest some ignorant people feel You have no one chasing you Shanshan I know you'll eventually Will still choose me Mr. Fu misunderstood I don't choose anyone Let's go Mommy, don't be angry Anan I'll tell you again If you accept him as your assistant Just go with him. younger sister Cha Wu, this is your own fault. Let's go. Jin Shanshan, this bitch I canceled my engagement. It has also become the laughing stock of the whole city. I'm not done with her. mom Don't stop me I'm going to find her Go find Jin Shanshan now. It will only be more embarrassing She knows so many important people. There is also value in utilization Not as good as Build good relationships first right Your mom is right. Don't be impatient. Shanshan You worked hard with the kids! or Move back home. I can also help take care of the children that is Shanshan What can we say The child's grandparents Just move back. Can As long as the mother and daughter go out Your mother and your sister How can I move out? After you move back Our family It's a reunion, right? reunion If you want to reunite with my mother I can consider sending you down. How do you talk? I'm asking you to move back with good intentions. You actually treated me like this Your little calculations It would be meaningless to continue acting. Jin Shanshan Don't be complacent too early Let's go! Mr. Fu You are Waiting for the ex-wife You have some eyes. Remember From now on, call her Mrs. Jin Shanshan yes Are you waiting for mommy? Shanshan You come Jin Xiaoranand I Mr. Fu, you don't have to tell me this. I'm just your ex-wife I have no right to ask about your affairs Let's go So tactless I really don't know how to be an assistant. Shanshan I know between us There are many misunderstandings Let's face it together, okay? I'll give you some time I want to ask you a question What Pingping Anan Is it my child? Pingping Anan Jin Shanshan You really are a thief with a heart of your own. What are you doing here? You can't be so close to her. Ancestors of the Fu family But it's all for viewing What does she mean by this? No meaning Jin Xiaoran you tell me What happened? Quick Seven years ago Grandpa Fu knows After you and Pei Yi Yi went abroad Direct myocardial infarction You killed him. I didn't elope That's a rumor If at that time You answered his call He might not die. This matter I didn't mention it to Jin Xiaoran again. How would she know? Who pushed me so Seven years ago I indirectly caused Death of Grandpa Fu Pingping Anan is still waiting for me I'm leaving first Shanshan Shanshan, don't listen to her. Maybe it's all fate I indirectly killed him. Fu Xing's grandfather No matter what happened in the past Me and him There's no chance anymore. Mommy What's wrong with you? Is the scumbag bullying you again? I will never let him go No one bullies mommy I can only say It's fate. baby Go home Mr. Fu Back to the company A Xing Our Engagement Party When will it be changed? Reconsideration But aunt I am Xiaoran elder brother Mommy must be sad this time. What to do? It's my turn to take action. Mommy fainted I give you five minutes to get there. OK Assistant Mo We are almost at Jin's house hurry up Mr. Fu Then you can Sit down Slower Why do we need to time the fog? How dangerous is this? younger sister Even this little thing Can't do it well How can I protect my mom in the future? Time is up Pingping Anan How's Mommy? Mommy, she just fainted. quick Don't blame me for not giving you a chance. I hope that Nudi's mother can reconcile. You said it was acting. The president On the road I drove eight hundred times Shanshan I am coming strangeness Anan said she had a high fever This forehead is not hot. Pain How did you get in? Ping Ping calls You fainted due to a high fever. I'm worried about you I'm coming over This kid is talking nonsense again I just fell asleep strangeness Why can't this door be opened? Mommy My brother has locked the door. You and Duodi should stay and watch carefully. Anan Help mom open the door Mommy This is Special time for you Cherish it well or Let's listen to the kids. Between Us Mr. Fu I won't let you come here for nothing. Let me heal your leg. Is it Shining? I really have no idea. Mr. Fu, I didn't mean it. His heart beats so fast Don't move There are too many misunderstandings between us Can you give me time I will explain it to you one by one I A Xing Even if you don't marry Jin Xiaoran You can't marry Jin Shanshan She is The District Hand who killed your grandfather mom This matter I believe it wasn't done by Shining. I will investigate I think you are Stolen by a ghost You dare to have anything to do with her again? I will die for you to see Shanshan Grandpa's things I will investigate Give you a clean slate I didn't answer my grandfather's call. This is an indisputable fact Shanshan Would you still like to I don't want to Mr. Fu We are divorced. Let me treat your leg first. Nudi and Mommy Definitely reconciled I didn't expect Mr. Fu Usually indifferent on the surface So wild in private younger sister Stop eavesdropping. Oh well You really don't have eyes Still eavesdropping You have feeling in your legs. The meridians in your legs have healed. I'll help you get up and Let's go. My legs can move. Thank you so much This is what I should do The key was found Get out You can go now Shanshan Let's go Mr. Fu Your legs are better. Mommy is really a good medicine for Nudi Kiss Mommy Anan Talk nonsense again Don't worry Dad will definitely Thank you very much, Mommy Mr. Fu or Help Mrs. Take the things back unnecessary Mr. Fu This is the Jin family. Clues to what was done You have a wide network of contacts here. I believe you can check it. The truth is coming soon The truth will come out rest assured I'll find out as soon as possible Give you a clean slate The priority now It's breaking off the engagement Back to the old house Bring a wheelchair Mommy Why We don't go home with the fog I want to live with the fog. From now on, there will be three of us Live a good life Stop mistaking fog. It's really useless Screwed it again A Xing How do you and Jin Shanren That woman came so close The person you are going to marry is Jin Xiaoran This spread How do others view our Fu family? This marriage I don't plan to order A Xing You want to break up the marriage you You won't be glittering That woman was lost, right? Jin Xiaoranke is much more reliable than her It can also help you cure your leg disease Reliable She kept saying Help me heal my legs But secretly bribed the doctor I want to remain disabled. This way I can rely on her. It's Jin Shanshanen She cured my leg disease. What is She cured your leg disease A Xing you Your legs are so nice. Yes Grandpa gives Shanshan The phone call I didn't say You probably didn't say that. But Jin Xiaoran She knows you mean She and your grandfather's death Can't get away from it I've sent someone to investigate. I believe The truth will soon come out In this case The Jin family I'll go and tell you Seven years ago Speed up I want to return a clear conscience Xiao Ran What does the Fu family say? Your engagement When will it be held? They won't cancel it. mom Don't worry Mrs. Fu likes me very much How could Fu Xing Cancel the engagement? You just wait for it. This call is coming soon aunt Xiao Ran Your engagement with A Xing is cancelled. I will give the Jin family compensation. that's all What aunt Xiao Ran What did the Fu family say? mom The Fu family said they wanted to cancel my engagement What should I do, Mom? It must be Jin Shanshan Take advantage of it If our Jin family I can't get the support of this Fu family. It's possible that you'll go bankrupt. Jin Shanshan, you thief Don't try to stop me from marrying the Fu family. The Fu family's property can only be mine. I'm going to settle accounts with her now Come to the rescue Miss Jin She is Mr. Fu's wife Director Wang Mr. Fu is joking How could I She is Mr. Fu's wife. Shanshan is unwilling In front of others Make our relationship public This is to follow me completely Drawing a line in the sand Director Wang Maybe before I forgot to explain. Shanshan is my wife Between Us Maybe there were some misunderstandings before Don't talk nonsense All divorced Director Wang actually I am Fu Xing's ex-wife Miss Jin It is normal for couples to have conflicts Communicate well Look, Mr. Fu. To see you for medical treatment Always play the role of a person with leg disease visible Deep love I think what Director Wang said is very right. alright I won't bother you anymore. Mr. Fu lady You continue Let me go Shanshan Can you please let me explain? There is a deep hatred between us Let's not meet again. I believe my grandfather died. It's not you who did it This matter I'll definitely check it out. I didn't answer the phone. This is an indisputable fact Shanshan Believe me Everything will come out. What happened seven years ago is a foregone conclusion No one wants to make waves again Adult emotions It's really complicated. Why are you here? Why didn't you shout &quot;Nuddi&quot; this time? Mommy said You can't just identify the foggy land. Anan You will know immediately Who is Mengdi? Murphy Fu Xing already knew The child is his. Don't worry about the child. You go and do your work first good I'll come back to see you guys when I'm done. Mr. Fu Ping Anan has a birthmark on his body I'm also allergic to peanuts How could there be Such a coincidence So I think Ping Anan is my child so Let's do it again Paternity Test Last time Didn't you do it? I doubted last time Someone has tampered with it This time We must not make any mistakes Tell the truth What happened to you guys? Things are not As you see It was all a misunderstanding Misunderstand I just saw Hug Mommy tightly Shanshan Believe me Everything will come out. Why can I still get from him? Finding a sense of security completion Mommy is in love At a young age I know a lot I'm not a three-year-old kid anymore. elder brother What is Love Brain? Stop Stop this topic Mommy will take you out for dinner. Call a car My phone is out of battery never mind Let's go first This is the woman Give me some slack I work Don't worry, Ms. Jin Jin Shanshan Goodbye Mommy I can warn you Love Brain There's no good ending. elder brother What is Love Brain? Is it the fog and mommy? Put it in your brain Then I also want love brain Anan You are still young I don't know now You'll know when you grow up. Let's go Weird Flashing phone Why can't I get through? Is there any danger? Don't worry, Mr. Fu Maybe There's no electricity. Fu Xing Don't be afraid I didn't Fu Xing Don't fall asleep. The scumbag is blessed with a great fortune It's definitely okay. Mommy Hospital ambulance Half an hour at the fastest Half an hour There's no hope for that scumbag. Mommy, don't be sad. I'm here to save Nudi Nudi will wake up soon. Fu Xing Fu Xing, how are you? I'm fine Mommy Kuidi's wound needs to be treated Let's take him back to the hospital. lady Then Mr. Fu will leave it to you. Take off your clothes Take it off How to disinfect without taking off the clothes Unexpectedly He was in a wheelchair for seven years. She still maintains such a good figure This way it won't shake anymore Mr. Fu Something big happened Mr. Fu Something big happened Mr. Fu lady Did I come at the wrong time? I go Assistant Mo Mr. Fu's injury has been treated. I'll trouble you next time. Mr. Fu Excuse me yes I don't have eyes. How Mr. Fu You let me Hair samples sent to hospital Gone Tell the Dean Let him check it out If the fragrance doesn't come out, he won't do it anymore. yes That's right I have another one here. This time we go together Must be well Mommy, you and Sandi have reconciled. You two children How come he's so elusive? It's not that we are elusive. You are immersed in In happy memories Unable to extricate oneself You kid Mommy We moved to Nudi's house OK President According to your expectations Investigate clearly The perpetrator has been controlled Take us there doctor What about things? How long will it take for this result to come out? Mr. Fu, half an hour at the fastest Good as soon as possible broken Fu Xing is here to do a paternity test again I have to tell Shanshan quickly Why at this time? Don't answer the phone What are you doing? So brave How dare you hit my mom The car was going too fast. I couldn't see clearly. You are talking nonsense It was obviously you who hit the mommy My brother has evidence. Who instructed you? I just said The car is too fast I didn't see that you are deaf. No tears until the coffin Kill me if you can. If you don't have the courage There is nothing I dare not do. Ah Cheng, bring me my knife. Little brat You've watched too many Hong Kong movies, right? I can, too. Handsome Don't mess around. Hahaha Young and Dangerous you say Your bones are hard This iron rod is still hard. Are you serious? I Don't Quick Who is Let you hit my mommy I say I say I said it was Jin Xiaoran It's Jin Xiaoran The Woman It's her. this What happened? The man didn't answer the phone. Could something have happened? Xiao Ran You shouldn't have asked someone to hit her. What if Mr. Fu finds out? Your business It's even more impossible Jin Shanshan is alive It is even more impossible for Fu Xing to be with me Together Who are you? take away Who are you? Don't take away my daughter Get out of the way What are you doing Let me go mom Save me The doctor's report is out. people Ping Anan is really my child Check it out Mr. Fu It's Miss Jin. Intentionally thrown hair samples Go to Jin's house Jin Shanshan How dare you do this to me? Why don't you just find someone to hit me? I'll take you home Is that not possible? I don't know what you're talking about I have witnesses Jin Xiaoran You finally have to take responsibility for your actions. Paid the price It must be A Xing who came to rescue me A Xing How come you are here? Why are you still panting? It's bad. Something bad has happened. Fu Xingta What's wrong with me Fu Xing, what's going on? I have something to say to you, Then I don't want to send it far away A Xing, please save me Jin Shanshan wants to kill me Shining won't do such a thing It's you What happened should be clear in your mind Are you okay? A Xing What are you talking about? You have disliked me since childhood. Now, by any means You don't act like an actor. What a pity Bring it out He hit the mommy. They also said that it was Jin Xiaoran who ordered it. Not me I haven't done it You say it yourself Who instructed you? Quick I have no idea Didn't you say that before? Oh, you saw it. She is the one in the dirty haze Take the person to the police station A Xing I just knew it You will definitely speak for me Send guests off safely Hey, you don't have to rush. We will go Ah, let's go We go back You go back first I have something else to do I You are not welcome here Go fast Just this once elder brother Just give dad a chance. Just this once Come on, Dad! Shanshan Don't be angry, okay? Mr. Fu, what are you doing? Of course I hugged my wife. besides I don't like you calling me Mr. Fu Seems too unfamiliar Mr. Fu You got the wrong person Jin Xiaoran is your wife I am not Shanshan Hey, I gave you a chance Same no use elder brother Looks like it's our turn. Let's go Let's go help Mommy. Pack your bags I know It's all my fault I'm too stupid. You are right It's my fault I shouldn't know you I shouldn't have married you. Shanshan I will spend the rest of my life To make up for the mistakes I made before Also for the children A complete home Give me another chance, please so You know Pingping Anan It's your children That's why you treat me like this Not me You really are my dad You want to run away from home? I'm not running away from home I want to live with my dad. Anan, don't make trouble I just want to live with my dad. Anan Can I take you home? Good Mommy, let's go. I'll help you with your luggage you Mommy You won't abandon us, will you? you Why do you bring everything home? Mr. Fu Otherwise, I'd better take Ping Anan Go back Go quickly Don't dirty my heirloom. Shanshan This time I will never let you suffer Oh, you want to piss me off to death mom Shanshan has suffered so much for me She gave birth to two children for me. The rest of life I will compensate her well. you mean Pingping Anan My grandchildren. Pingping Anan is yours Grandchildren It's not you You guys are cheating me together God has eyes Our Fu family has a successor. grandmother My little baby You are so cute elder brother Why don't you call me grandma? Hello grandma Why Ping Ping looks so small Just like A Xing when he was a kid Both high and cold literary style I'm different from him. He is a piece of wood grandmother Mommy is still mad at Nudi Let's not affect her for now. OK Okay, I'll listen to you. Li Ma Go and take the lady's luggage Put it back in the room. Got it, ma'am. You are trying to kill me lady I'll put the suitcase here. Thank you for your hard work, Mama Li. Madam hasn't been back for a long time. Tonight Make you something delicious Thank you, Mommy Ji What's wrong This cabinet is a bit dirty. Let Li Ma go back Clean it up before using It's okay. I can do it myself. Hey, Shiny No need to bother you Let Li Ma clean it up later. You're stopping me like this Is there a secret? What secrets can I have? Then get out of the way Hey, Shiny Get out of the way Finished This is a big misunderstanding Come over right away I'll leave it to you later. Don't make any mistakes this time. Dr. Fei, rest assured No surprises with me here Miss Jin Dr. Pei Yi saved you. I have a serious heart disease he He never let me tell you Please take good care of him. I see Thank you 00 Shanshan How are you I'm fine Why are you always filling me up? What can I do if I tell you? It will only make you feel ashamed I don't want this 00 I owe you too Shanshan Get your dirty hands off me. Fu Xing, what are you doing? Xi Yi is sick Pei Yi Yi, ignore him have a good rest Are you okay? Since Shining has said it 0 O I won't follow Mr. Fu Generally known Can you call this Shining? I have known Shanshan for so many years It's always been called that. Start now You're not allowed to call me that. Fu Xing Please stop talking. I'm fine. You should go back with Mr. Fu. I'm alone here It doesn't matter. You did this to save me. I can't ignore you. Shanshan Can't you see he's pretending? Get out now go out have a good rest Mr. Fu The road to chasing a wife is a long one. come on If you can't speak, shut up. Your fighting power It's so weak This was driven out by the enemy. Why If this continues It's not good to be high, then you really have to go up Two little ancestors Please help me Know now Why did you do that in the first place? I really know I'm wrong. Please help me just once. OK Men's words are deceiving What's more, it's Brainless man elder brother Nudi already knew he was wrong. Just help Mengdi I swear I will love mommy forever Protect her forever, okay? I'll trust you for once Ears out My son is really smart. I inherited it But mommy's good genes Not like you A little hot Shanshan, you are so virtuous Not angry Shining loves me Don't tease me Shanshan There's something on your face Why are you here again? Ping Anan said he was looking for his mother Leave it to me here You go find them. good I'll be back in a minute. Shanshan has moved to Chuanjia You won't have any more chances This is impossible Doctor Xi doesn't believe it. You can go to He Shanshan in person Or ask the kids You 7 years ago I have hurt Shanshan once. Do you want to hurt her again? Shanshan is my favorite I won't hurt her at all. Don't pretend to be sick to me anymore. You control me Fu Xing I won't let you meet I will do whatever it takes Keep Shining by my side Shanshan You go back with Fu Xing. I can't die Green Tea Man Fu Xing What did you say to your elder brother? I told him to stop pretending to be sick. You can't be together How can Pei Yi Yi pretend to be sick? Fu Xing Let go of Shining Shanshan is the child's mother It's normal for me to hug her Oh, it's you, this guy You're quite courageous. Let go of my hand You should be the first to release it. Let go of He should be the first to release It seems This Mr. Fu's love rival It's really powerful My wood fog That's so stupid. elder brother It's our turn to show off good Please let go, mommy. I hope to participate With Mommy Pingping Anan How can you help this bad guy? Talking I told you Shanshan already has a child Back to our Fu family And stop pretending to be sick. Really pretending Don't pretend to be sick to me anymore. You control me Fu Xing You are really insidious and deceitful Dr. Pei Yi I'm insidious Not as sinister as you. Shanshan You forgot about him seven years ago How did I cheat you? Don't be fooled by him again. The matter between us I don't need an outsider like you to interrupt. Mommy, wait for me Sister, wait for me I'm warning you one last time Don't have fantasies about her anymore. Mr. Fu, wait for me. Mommy, don't run away Anan can't catch up Two little cuties Why don't we go first? To Mom and Dad Can you take a moment? This time I was smart Sister, let's go. 7 years ago, it was all my fault I know you won't be that fast. Forgive me But trust me I'll prove it with time, okay? Shanshan, please Give me another chance, please? Shanshan Next Steps I will give you a big gift Xiaoran, you are finally back. What is going on? Why did those people tie you up? Blame it on that Jin Shanci She knows I'm looking for someone. Hitting her I also told Fu Xing What What can I do? Don't panic The person I bribed Already changed my mind Boxing didn't believe him That's good Scare me That's right Would Fu Xing doubt it? 7 years ago You killed Jin Shanshan's mother. About his grandfather What are you afraid of? He has no evidence You can't do anything to me Who says there is no evidence? Fu Xing How come you are here? I'm not coming How to expose your crime What does it mean? Could it be Did you betray me? Xiao Ran We can't help it. Not as good as Just turn yourself in. You surrender now You can also seek leniency. Surrender I am not wrong You are the one who is wrong You took everything from me That's right I forgot to tell you When your mother was dying Still studying coffee What's your name? Jin Xiaoran, you deserve to die Calm Visitors Although I Didn't get what I wanted But now Seeing you so sad I'm worth it too Ha ha ha ha Take her away Let her spend the rest of her life in jail Let me go Sunflower Mommy You guys are back How is it going? mom Jin Xiaoran has personally admitted Shining Mother And her grandfather She killed them all. It's really her I misjudged the person. I mom Grandma is fine. She'll wake up soon. Oh my god How do you feel when you wake up? I feel fine. This time, thanks to my good granddaughter Grandma, you're welcome. Mommy said Family is to Help each other Thank you for your hard work, Anan Shanshan It's my fault I've been looking at you through tinted glasses You are really kind Educate Such two good children aunt Don't say that. This is what I should do Shanshan A Xing these years You're always in my heart Can you forgive him once? aunt I have forgiven him. That's still called aunt Age is not too strange mom Good good good Later You two have a good time. Go fast I can't just give up like this cannot I want to go to the toilet You have so many things to do. We'll be at the bureau later. You are on it. I really can't stand it anymore Go ahead. You two Follow her closely Go ahead You two Take a look Fast Chase elder brother Finally arrived in many places ?My mommy's wedding I'm so excited Hopefully later Fangdi, be nicer to mommy Otherwise I won't forgive him. Must be Good for us and mommy Let's go stop mediocre Are you okay? Slide to answer Jin Xiaoran Jin Shanshan If you want your daughter to live, Come to the Xijiao Factory Mommy, don't come. You little cutie Shut up Jin Xiaoran Don't touch my daughter. In less than 10 minutes Your life Don't even think about seeing you again. Your lovely daughter Shanshan What happened? Kidnapped by Jin Xiaoran again I can't explain it to you. I went first A Xing Anan was kidnapped by Jin Xiaoran again Shining went alone Call someone to help. I'm afraid mom Don't worry Shining will be fine. You little cutie Be honest with me Otherwise I'll let you If you can't eat it, you have to take it with you You are such a bad woman. I shouldn't have saved you. Let me go My place is But the president of Fu Group Offended him You can't eat it Go around Mr. Fu, the richest man in Yuncheng Miss Jin That's not us. People who can afford to offend waste If you are afraid Just go away by yourself. You'd better be honest with me. otherwise I won't let you see your mommy You dare to touch me I won't let you go. I want to see if I move today. What will you, Wu Meng, do to me? stop It's coming pretty fast. You seem to be very concerned about your daughter. Jin Xiaoran You put Ann down It's okay to let it go Life for life I let her go Mommy, don't Don't move, An'an Come on, I don't have the patience. Nine stop Shanshan A Xing Die A Xing Oh, hold on. I'll take you to the hospital Fu Xing Wake up quickly, okay? elder brother It will be fine if you go to the land Right He is blessed with a great fortune It's definitely okay. A Xing Finally woke up I was scared to death Brother, let's go. good I'm fine. I will never let you Worried