Good evening. Welcome to Le Bourget. We agree, for all of us, it's the airport of billionaires. But this evening at Cash, we decided to investigate Sainte Privee who is just behind the moving plane. Do you see that one behind me? And for good reason, the State regularly uses it to send back illegal aliens. Is what we call the famous OQTF, which you have heard a lot about lately. So this evening, Cash Investigation, we are interested in the place of foreigners in the French economy with a question who benefits from immigration? In France, we have a national sport which unleashes passions. Confront each other on the immigration front. I want to stop the flows and I want to bring immigration to zero. In any case, zero immigration, no one is doing it, no one will ever do it. So you will be a powerless president, especially when it comes to foreign workers and the place they occupy in our economy. There is a team which is convinced that we cannot do without these foreign workers. Zero immigration is the death of our economies, it is the death of our society. Our aging societies need immigration. In restaurants, in agriculture, in construction, you know what? There are lots of foreigners. There are no foreigners serving our dishes in restaurants. If all the workers who work in France and who are of foreign nationality decided to stop working for one day, a day where the country could not hold out. And there is another team convinced that foreign workers would steal French jobs. Immigration actually makes it possible to do what we call local relocation. When we can relocate the factory, we relocate it. And when we can't relocate because it's not easy to relocate a restaurant or to relocate the construction of a building, well we bring in immigration. It's a vicious circle. According to them, this workforce would even cause French wages to plummet. I know that part of the employers would love to import labor, which would put pressure, downward pressure on wages in France. This is not our salary or social policy. If we want to raise wages at some point, we must also stop immigration. Does immigration penalize French salaries and jobs? Can France do without foreign workers? Tonight, Cash will try to clarify things. You still have to know what we're talking about. Let's first calculate the number of foreign workers from 2021 INSEE data. There are 2.4 million of them. 7.66% of the active population. Among these foreigners, some come from the European Union. And they don't need any papers to work. But those who will interest you in this investigation are the others. Those who must have a residence permit. They come from the rest of the world. These are the extra-community people. According to our calculations. They represent 5.24% of the active population. But that's an average. In certain sectors essential to the French economy, this workforce has become essential. We are not only talking about big cities, but also of the countryside. These are figures that have never been published. Cash managed to obtain internal statistics from the Ministry of Labor on the share of foreigners outside the European Union. Region by region. Job by job. They are over-represented in three sectors. Let's look at human services first. Domestic workers in PACA, 15% of them are foreigners from outside the European Union. In Ile de France, it's 34%. Then, the construction sector. In Occitania, they make up 15% of workers. And in Ile de France, 35%. Finally, the hotel and catering industry in Auvergne-Rhone-Alpes. They represent 13% of kitchen helpers. Well, it is in this region that we will continue our investigation. According to the bosses of the bosses, we should be able to hire even more of these foreign workers. In this case, it is the regional boss of the night, the Union of Hotel Trades and Industries who says it, Martine Courbis. And according to Martine, there is a fire in the kitchen. It's every day that we are asked if we don't have a cook, a waiter, or even a dishwasher. But even divers, even if it's not, even. There is even that. The proof with the latest operation organized by the UMIH for its establishments in Puy de Dome. The week of May 15 was work-study week in support of France Travail. We did a summer job. So we did our part of the work, we brought in employers and France Travail. They sent applications to potential candidates. So they sent out 6,700 invitations to come and present themselves here. We had fifteen candidates, Fifteen candidates. Fifteen. Oh yeah, but that's for sure, it's not a lot. Of these candidates, we had one French candidate out of 6700, out of 6700 sent and fifteen present. Does this mean that at present, the hotel and restaurant sector in Puy de Dome cannot function without foreign workers? Of course we need it. Let us welcome immigrants who want to work in our trades. Those who wish to train, those who also wish to pass on the cells, come with us. And we will work together, hand in hand. But in reality, sometimes it's complicated. Let's stay in the Puy de Dome, under the Censi massif, the village of Saint-Victor, the river, and in the middle runs an inn. A young man. In the kitchen, there is Olivier Gilbert, his second, and Malik, Senegalese, who wishes to remain anonymous during the week. The young man is a master's student in mathematics. On weekends, he helps with the dishes and in the kitchen. The chef signed a good-smelling CD for him and we're preparing it for the party for the second time at my house too. Yes, I want it. Many people say that diving is easy. It's not true what he does for work. That's what. It's simply very impressive . On today's menu, it's truffade, snails and soup to the chef's anger. Because within 30 days, Malika, the obligation to leave the territory. The prefecture did not renew his residence permit. Student. For Olivier and his wife Delphine, it's a disaster. Just a few weeks before the summer season. It's something new too. I mean, they work like hell on these studies. There were these results. They succeeded. Uh. For what ? For what ? Why bother him when it's annoying? It wasn't planned. What ? Oh well no, it's not one. It's not for him. Because he stays. For us I say. We will say that we are happy. Say we are at the start of the season, on the eve of the peak season, right? He's someone who knows everything about us. So for once, we have someone who knows how to work, who wants to work. Come on, do you take it, do you throw it in the trash? Well seen France. Especially since in this little corner of the Auvergne mountain, the chef has a hard time finding candidates. Why do you hire foreign students? I mean, we need someone who wants to work. Someone who. Afterwards, why say that he is a Tunisian Algerian? What nationality do you want? Can't the French work or hire them? The problem is that we don't have any applications. Without a residence permit, Malik no longer has the right to work. A few weeks later, the couple will terminate their contract. Malik filed an appeal to challenge his obligation to leave the territory. Hotels, restaurants, personal services, construction. Why are there more foreign workers in these sectors? Do they have an impact on employment in France? Can they, for example, lower wages? To answer these questions, we went to the CP, a public research organization attached to Matignon. We have an appointment with Anthony Aido. Does his name mean nothing to you? But the work of this economist ends directly on the Prime Minister's desk. Let's first start by asking him about certain preconceived ideas. Is France one of the countries that welcomes a lot of foreigners compared to its European neighbors, for example? So, when we compare, for example, the rates of permanent immigration in France and in other countries, particularly those in the OECD, we notice that the immigration rate in France is twice as low as in the average of the countries of the OECD. All right. we are not at all on this perception. Do you have an idea of the French perception of the number of foreigners in France, of non-European foreigners? Yes, it is between fifteen and 20% while the reality is exactly 5%. All studies show that there is a very significant gap between the perception of the migration phenomenon and its reality. In France, there are three sectors where foreign workers are very present : construction, catering and personal assistance. What explains why these sectors, in particular, employ so many foreigners from outside the European Union? These jobs that we are talking about are often restrictive jobs , with repetitive work, difficult work, split, fragmented, chopped hours and therefore low salaries. Exactly. What about immigrants with equal or higher qualifications, who tend to accept difficult employment conditions, grueling working conditions? So what does that mean? Do they accept jobs that the French no longer accept? French employees at current wages. Immigrants accept activities and professions that the French do not accept. We hear the speech a lot these foreign workers are stealing the work of the French. This is a speech that we can hear and there are several studies that have been carried out on this subject. And immigration generally has no effect, neither on the average salary, nor on the average unemployment rate , nor on the average employment of other workers of non-immigrant workers. But you want, There are several studies that have been done and all agree that it does not lower the salary. It does not increase the unemployment rate. So not only in France, in other countries, if there is a consensus, it is that overall, immigration is not, will not destabilize the labor market, will not not affect employment or wages. Afterwards, immigration can have differential effects on certain groups of workers, that is to say, immigration can reduce the economic opportunities of workers whose qualifications are similar to those of immigrants. But competition does not necessarily take place between immigrants and French people born in France. Competition occurs mainly within the foreign population, within the immigrant population, so that, for example, an increase in the number of foreigners in certain construction professions will mainly reduce the economic opportunities of workers, precisely immigrants from previous waves of immigration. So in fact, some in the political landscape today defend the idea of zero immigration. Can zero immigration boost the French economy? Zero immigration, from a purely economic point of view, would have no positive effect on growth. Conversely, studies show that more immigration means more economic growth. And if we carry out mass expulsions because we also hear that in the political landscape at the moment in France, would that boost the economy or not? So in the 1930s, there were forced repatriations of Mexicans from the United States to Mexico and some researchers tried to evaluate the effects of these forced repatriations on the wages and employment of Americans. And they showed neither an increase in salary nor an increase in employment. Conversely, it even shows that there can be counterproductive effects for economies, because forced repatriation, as was the case in the United States, can destructure the economy at a given moment and even penalize workers' wages. But it was rather harmful for the American economy. This disadvantaged American workers at the time. Exactly. Thank you Anthony and so thank you very much. In France, among foreign workers, there are also people in an irregular situation, undocumented immigrants whom certain bosses are willing to hire with full knowledge of the facts, due to a lack of candidates in their landlocked regions. Let's find the Massif Central, more precisely Cantal. In three decades, this department has lost 9% of its inhabitants. And the population is aging. So inevitably, to meet his needs, there is a shortage of hands. We have unearthed the ranking of the professions that have the most difficulty recruiting in Cantal. It comes from DARES which depends on the Ministry of Labor. Whether they are home helpers, caregivers or social action professionals, the support sector is in the red. In the top ten of the most difficult professions. First cause identified is the lack of availability of labor. In Aurillac, the capital of the department. We are even looking for home help on four by three posters. Yes! However, there was at least one candidate available and an employer ready to sign her a contract. This is the gross monthly salary of EUR1,958 allocated and approved. Well, in agreement, I say for us this is really a new life. We present to you Sandra, 34 years old and a nursing diploma obtained in her country, Serbia. But it is in Cantal that the rest of its history takes place. We are in Aurillac in 2022. At the time, the young woman was living there in an irregular situation. After having her asylum application rejected with her family, she decided to apply to care establishments in the area. I've been in a lot of nursing homes for me to work in and everyone was looking for solutions. Did you say shortage? Is that right? Like this day when Sandra simply enters to drop off her CV at the reception of an EPAD and it is given to them outside. Okay, your paper is super perfect. Come on, come to me in my soul need right now. I said now I'm staying to work. Is it physical? No, it's not a problem for you. Twelve Today is good for you, I would say yes, yes, it's good. But as she is undocumented, EPAD will not bring her back after this first day. On the other hand, some time later, a local association hires Sandra for good, knowingly to take care of people with disabilities. Full time 30 5 hours and indefinite duration. Yes yes to cdi there. the Association that gave you this contract? She knew that you were in an irregular situation and despite that, she made you this contract because she really needed you. But we really needed peace. Person who works and says last if I have not found a caregiver who accepted at all things for work need you, worker you come here, you work. It's October 26, 2022 And what happened after a precedent of expulsion with 45% and return to our country of origin? That was October 31, 2022. Two days before taking up her post, Sandra was sent back from French territory. How are personal service companies coping with this labor shortage? I'm still looking too. Brice Alzon represents the bosses of this sector. For him, there is an urgent need to find solutions. Because France is only at the beginning of this recruitment crisis. Ok, let's start. You are the president of the Federation of Personal Services Companies. How many employees does that represent, oh how many employees for the entire sector? So personal services range from early childhood to daily life services to the elderly. So today, in France, we bring together 1,500,000 people all the same. And at the moment, how many people to meet the needs today in France? So today, we need 60 zero zero zero employees in addition to everything related to early childhood, creche, Macron, creche. Yes, for anything that will be help to the elderly 50 zero zero. So we already have 110,000 and for everything else, cleaning, gardening, etc. We will make another 40,000. So we have an immediate need of 100,550 people. Oh yes, okay, immediate. This shortage is truly glaring everywhere in France, countryside, towns, everywhere. Exactly. And that is valid for both the private sector and the voluntary sector. There really is fire. You should know that we are only at the beginning of the shortage, with the 150 zero zero people and employees who are missing today. But from 2028 until 2040, we will focus on age and papers. You want ? It's only going to get worse. And there, we have a need estimated between 800 zero zero zero people and 1 million additional people. So, you have a business yourself, you are in the same situation as you live it day to day. We really experience this shortage on a daily basis. For example, there, we made requests in rural areas for example, like in Saint-Gaudens in 68. Yes, it's 80 kilometers from Mulhouse, we have no one. There is. in the mailbox. There is no longer anyone responding to our requests. Why can't you find these workers you're missing? Among French workers, I think that there have been several phenomena linked to the attractiveness of our professions. You are talking about a problem of attractiveness which lacks attractiveness in terms of salaries too, because it is a difficult profession. These are jobs where sometimes we have a split schedule and where we are paid barely more than the target minimum wage. It's true. I take the case, for example, of nurseries. At the moment, the three main players in the market have made a small push for the year 2024 where they have increased on a full-time equivalent from EUR80 up to EUR150 per employee per month. Okay, but you agree, It might still not be enough. Ah but what can we do? More obviously it would be. Today, can the companies you represent do without foreign workers? So today, we cannot do without foreign workers. There is just one figure, which is that today, in our sector, foreign workers already represent 25% of our workforce, 25% exactly. So today, with 25% foreign workers, there is no question whether we should work with or without foreign workers. So it is essential to remove 25% of foreign workers from where we are today. That's already it. But on professions in tension, our professions stop at this stage. We need to tell you. To speed up the recruitment of a worker who is located outside the European Union, a solution exists. Except that you will see, it is quite badly made. You must be on a special list established by the Ministries of Labor and the Interior. So it's stopped for 2021. We call it the list of professions in tension. It's simple, if you want to hire a foreigner for a job that appears on this list, you benefit from an express procedure to obtain a work authorization for them. There is a list per region of a maximum of 30 professions, that's 89 30. We see that there are professions behind it. Let's ask Martine Courbet, the boss of the hotel and restaurant industry in Auvergne Rhone Alpes, what's on the list in her region where there are many. There are supervisors and similar workers in industries. Here are the premises maintenance agents, you can do without them, the surveyors, the fitters , finally there are quite a few of them. The latest are the wine growers. We agree with all of that. But we are not on it, we are not cited. Ah good ? Oh well, how does that happen? Wait, we'll come back. Can I speak? Yes, two seconds, Martine Time to check. That's it, that's all. Indeed, on the Auvergne Rhone-Alpes list, there is no cooking profession. Well, anyway, there are the butlers. Uh no, Martine, the butler. Well yes, that's good, but do you find butlers in all our establishments? It's not the main job of our professions anyway. What we miss most right now are the cooks. For example, at the start of the year, then Dom, there were 770 offers for cook positions. Same observation for other regions, there are no kitchen helpers or cooks. On the other hand, there are a whole bunch of professions which represent few jobs on the labor market, such as fitters or pipefitters, or even surveyors which appear in eight regions. And there are also mechanical and metalworking designers. Eleven regions out of thirteen. Have in fact completely disconnected themselves from the field. This list, yes, completely disconnected from the field. Absolutely. But what I don't understand is that you are not on this list of professions in shortage. Us, us. We don't decide who decides. Well, there it is, for the judge. You are talking about the Most High. Martine But no, up there, it's Paris At the Ministry of Labor. In 2021, he was responsible for preparing the lists of professions in shortage, in consultation with the regions. At the office at the time, we found John. Hello ? Yes, one of the advisors is in charge of the procedure. Actually, his name isn't John. He's not an American actor. He is a ministerial advisor who wished to remain anonymous. The thing is, if I talk about it, we can talk about it. I know John. So on his lists, it's true that it was quite summary. In fact, there were a lot of jobs which are certainly very tense, but oh well. Finally, which will not change the French economy in terms of labor. For example, is it the doctor we need most as a pipefitter? Yeah, that's it. Is everything going well in the meantime? No, not too much, no. And it's not a list of 30 doctors. So that's a fairly arbitrary choice. We could have gone to 50. Indeed, it's not great, it's not great. But one last question bothers us, John, why do catering professions hardly appear on the lists, on hotels, cafes, restaurants, on cleanliness, all that? Everyone finally said to themselves, after all, we have enough people there who are unemployed to fill these jobs. Except that betting everything on the unemployed didn't really work. The labor shortage is still there. So, in 2023, the government decides to do vote a new law on immigration, supposed to facilitate the regularization of certain undocumented immigrants. From now on, if an undocumented migrant holds a job appearing on the list of shortage occupations under certain conditions, he or she will be able to benefit from a one-year residence permit. A measure defended by the Minister of the Interior at the time, Gerald Darmanin. To regularize those who work, there will be ten zero zero more regularizations next year. This will be the key to the majority of this text. And that's not all. His colleague at the time at the Ministry of Labor, Olivier Dussopt, wanted to expand his lists because he too ended up realizing that they were not very suitable. It has a few incongruities, a few watches. For example , catering professions are rarely present there today. This list must be more in line with the reality of recruiting tensions. Translation sectors where shortages are felt should finally include this list of professions. A date is even announced. The new list will be for July. And then. I. That. So this evening, the National Assembly. July has passed. August. September. October. In mid-November, still no news. We questioned the Ministry of the Interior and offered an interview to Bruno Retailleau. He refused to comment on these new lists of professions. But perhaps Brice Alzon, the president of the Federation of Personal Services Companies, is better informed than us. With the new immigration law. It was also planned that these lists, which date from 2021, would be updated every year. But do you think that Bruno Retailleau, new Minister of the Interior, will suddenly release this new list even though it has just arrived? We'll see how he progresses. And I can assure you that in the professions of the elderly or early childhood, we absolutely must be present for this breed on all lists in all regions. Clermont. It's true that Bruno Retailleau and others have a very firm position on this subject. Conversely, I think that work is a factor of social integration. And once again, without foreign workers, we will not succeed since, with a demand of more than 800 zero zero zero people from 2028 to 2040 to recruit, we will never succeed with the French population as it has. done today. So, you are in favor of the regularization of undocumented workers, where there is a labor shortage, as in your sector? Indeed, I had taken a fairly firm position during this immigration law where I found that these people, who have worked for several years in France and who for some have pay slips, yes, and who for some pay taxes and social charges. In any case, I tell you, I find it abnormal that these people are not regularized. And do you have a number? In terms of personal services, that would be between three and 5,000 people. So it's not huge. So it's good, right? Thank you. And thank you. Regularizations which will not be enough to fill the shortages of today and even less those of the years to come. Now we have to tell you about a very good deal. Migrants can also represent a lucrative investment. This is the story of asylum seekers who became more profitable than Livret A. It's hard for you to see how that's possible. And many aging hotels have been transformed into accommodation centers. This real estate investment brings in a lot of money for large private groups. To start, we head to Bearn. We're going to show you one of these good real estate deals. Direction the entrance to the town of Pau. Trust us. The activity zones are very promising. He's over there. We see it here, in white. So it's certain, we are not on a favorite property, we are rather on an atypical property. Do you see? This is what we call a radar for the regional reception and accommodation program for asylum seekers. That of Pau is the largest center of this type. This is a big plus. For what? Mary sang an enchanted song. Thank you so much. Two Afghan asylum seekers agree to show us the places on condition of guaranteeing their anonymity. Otherwise, they fear being expelled from the accommodation center. We don't have a face, we just want to show what it looks like for a long time there and what you actually live in. Like many residents, these Afghans fled the war in their country. I live with good heart. Well, okay, there's a lot, but that's the welcome. These asylum seekers were placed here by the authorities until France decides whether or not to grant them refugee status. 140 people live within these walls. Seven days a week. Can we see a room? In children for two people, i.e. 4.5 square meters per person. However, in France, the rule is clear in reception centers for asylum seekers, it is 7.5 square meters per resident. Here, in this space, everything must be shared. Small fridge, sink. Not to mention unwanted roommates. It all works. So the ceiling. Oh yes, did you see? TGV? The nickname for cockroaches. Here, they sneak everywhere. All the time. A little, a lot. The kitchens are the size of a bedroom, but without chairs to sit at the table. At a cooking festival. We're going. It is better to be patient when preparing your meals. And there are those. Hands. They sometimes walk in front of you. Broke for a year. Well what is that? Michel Michel? Did you change the channel or something? Oh well no, in fact, it's a video that we received a month later. Mushrooms growing on the furniture in another kitchen in the center. A lot of equipment appears to be out of order. These do not always work and there are more serious issues in terms of security. Some facilities are downright substandard, in fact. But why don't they have to change the window? There is still the broken glass behind us. Example: this fire door patched up with cardboard. To standards including a little. There is twice as much there, always stronger than that. Must. But what bothers residents the most is the unsanitary showers. One for 30 people. Moldy stuff. They or she doesn't care about the shower stall, which shower is warm here. No, in fact, there are electrical wires running through it since it doesn't. A building running out of steam that leaks, overflows and cracks everywhere. In France, this is an obligation established by the Geneva Convention, but also by the preamble to our Constitution. The Republic must welcome asylum seekers while it processes their request. Except that the State has long delegated this mission to associations, but also to a CDC Habitat company. These are the structures that house asylum seekers. In exchange, the State pays them a grant calculated per day for each migrant welcomed. Behind the center of Pau, we find the CDC Habitat group, a public real estate juggernaut with an annual turnover of 750 million euros. CDC Habitat's core business is social housing. But for the accommodation of asylum seekers. He entrusted this to one of his subsidiaries, Adoma. Adoma is the leading landlord of housing and accommodation in France for people in difficulty and thus participates in a mission of general interest. Today, Adoma is the operator that welcomes the most asylum seekers, including more than 5,300 in its Prada accommodation centers, such as that of Pau. However, the health and safety breaches that we observed during our visit were not isolated failures. Cash's team recovered a file containing numerous items on other Pradas. Elsewhere in France. Residents? Authorities, employees. The alerts seem to match. Shower overflowing with sewage right into the corridors with its earthen dams erected by asylum seekers. To prevent flooding of their rooms. A phenomenon which, in certain centers, can take on alarming proportions. According to the testimony of this ex-employee, the residents remained for months and months with a completely flooded ground floor , their feet in the shit, in the water and shit before the people came out of the unworthy conditions. that we. Other former employees denounce the attitude of Adoma, the manager of these centers which has 100% employees and then accommodation. There's no conspiracy anyway, it's not perfect. The authorities are also worried in this center, near Grenoble. A report from the departmental fire service pointed to a significant risk of casualties in the event of a proven fire . In short, it is completely unsanitary. What. Except that behind these unworthy reception conditions , we find large private investors for whom these centers are a real estate investment. First let's go back to the beginning of this whole story. We will find the man behind this financial operation in the beautiful districts of Paris. So yes, in the case of the Prado, he receives us in his living room. Andre Andre Fischer. We grant you, Andre Fischer is not known to the general public. Andre Fischer is not known to the general public. He will preside over the destinies first of a medium-sized housing company which was the national real estate company, which became and which in total today controls roughly 100,000 housing units, that is to say the big company in reality of public real estate in France. Andre Fischer left the presidency of CDC Habitat in December 2023. It was under his leadership that the Prada project was launched. This memory project must have seen the light of day in an area 2015 2016, a period when our country experienced, but not the last time, such a significant wave of immigration. From memory, I think it was linked to the events in Syria. In fact, he is talking about a time that you over 20 years old necessarily know, that of Syria, but also of Afghanistan, of Iraq. The wars that continue to tear the Middle East apart are causing populations to flee. 1 million migrants in 2015 alone at the borders of the European Union, facing a historic influx. Let's face it, we are faced with the exceptional arrival of women and men since the start of the year. Many fled the war and massacres. Others are looking for a better life. These are the principles of Solidarity and responsibility. Except that at the time, in France, the reception centers for asylum seekers were saturated. The problem facing the state was twofold. It was on the one hand to find reception possibilities and on the other hand, to nevertheless control the public burden that would result. the State will ask CDC Habitat to create new places for it with one condition. Do this at the lowest cost to the State. Andre Richet will therefore entrust this mission to one of his financial managers. Andre comes to see me and he says to me Are you able to create 10,000 reception places for me very quickly? Behind this voice, we present to you Vincent Mahe, the brain who designed the Prada project. All right. Well listen. Today, he no longer works for CDC Habitat. We don't tell him that he is registered as you are. What are you? Are you a journalist? I am a journalist for public television. What do you actually want to know? During two long interviews by telephone, Vincent Mahe agreed to tell us about the setting up of the project. First problem finding cheap buildings. And so I have to find something where I immediately take over structures because I don't have time to build them, I buy them cheaply and I manage to pay for them very quickly. I knew that at the time, the French economic hotel industry was not doing well. In particular in agreement for the named wanted to recycle these hotels. Formula one Ah well, you obviously know the Formula hotels in the mid-80s, the Accor group created the first chain of low-cost hotels. The cheapest of the French channels. Kit hotels assembled and opened in a few weeks. The entirely plastic sanitary facilities and toilets are at the end of the shared shower corridor, one for four rooms, one room nine square meters, the bare minimum on the edge of town to accommodate simple visitors passing through. Not really the kind of place where you want to linger. This is not the desired goal. In the 2010s. After two decades of operation, Accor has a problem. It's Formula One empties. The group is then considering selling off part of them, 62 of its hotels, exactly in a way that was somewhat unexpected for them. We are told, we are ready to buy all of this in bulk to transform them into homes intended to accommodate migrants. What you're actually doing is getting rid of these hotels, right? So getting rid of it means getting rid of it, getting rid of it is already better. And anyway. I think I have provided a global and rapid solution to the Accor group. Only in his plan. The CDC Habitat team has a problem worth 100 million euros. All hotels cost 78 million. And to transform them, you have to add at least 22 million. As Adoma absolutely did not have the funds to purchase the walls, it was necessary to raise funds from private investors. So, to the table, the CDC Habitat team invites heavy-duty investors . The Caisse des Depots group, but also private insurance giants . Aviva Pro BTP, we know him a little less. But this one, yes. MAIF, an activist insurer followed by BNP, Cardiff and finally CNP Assurances. Together, they will put money into an investment fund created for the Hemisphere occasion. This fund will be worth 100 million euros. The hotels transformed into accommodation centers will then be entrusted to Adoma. And in return, Adoma will have to pay rent to the investment fund. With this rent, the fund will reimburse the money it has invested. But it will also collect dividends. Every year. So it's kind of like you'll see them more exactly be there tomorrow. Oh well then! No ? Well, on this question, there is one who will be a little more talkative. A former president too, but that of Adama this time. My grandmother said you can't catch flies with vinegar. It was exactly that. He's Patrick. Other lines. For a long time, this specialist in poor housing headed the Abbe Pierre Foundation. Then, in 2015, he took over as head of the board of directors of a Doma. From its parent company, CDC Habitat arrived with investors from the Hemisphere fund. These are people who have very little concern for social issues, so they are in an economic investment arrangement. We must ensure their profitability. We said it all when we said that. They communicated it to you. At the time, the fund round goes. No, no, no. I asked the question. It was between three and 4%, between three and 4%, which was not bad. Which is good for him. For real estate, it's not bad. More or less for the better. I have to talk to dad about it. An asylum seeker is more profitable than a booklet At more than 3% each year. Too stylish. Internally, Patrick from beyond the line immediately denounced the irruption of the private sector in the reception of asylum seekers. This is the first time he has agreed to speak about it publicly. It's the same debate as EPADs. From the moment we say hey, we no longer want to make the investment, we will make minimum expenses. We are taking this to the private sector, that is to say generating profitability on something which is already unmanageable with the few resources provided. So if there is not a strong moral and political force to say yes, but minimum conditions of supervision, reception and integration are required, this can only be done to the detriment of those who who live alone. It can't be otherwise. Despite these warnings from investors, the business plan is validated. It remains to be seen how much the State is prepared to pay to Adoma. With this allocation, we must be able to cover staff salaries who work in the centers for the maintenance of the premises, the equipment and of course the rent. Who should pay to the investment fund. the State imposes a tight price. It will be EUR16.50 per day per asylum seeker. When they released these 50 euros, I said it was unmanageable. It was impossible. It's low-cost hospitality, I was going to say. We reproduced in a worse way what the Formula was in progress. We reproduce it on a social structure by saying it's better, it's better than where they were, in their town or in their village. They were the ones who wanted to come. This is the type of reasoning that we can hear. Of course this clash against the State Adoma has no choice and signs at EUR16.50. Some time later, Patrick from beyond the line resigns. He refuses his conditions. On the other hand, on the side of the creators of the Fund, casually, it is hard to absorb. We did what we are doing today. In this case, we reviewed the budget. We tried to scratch the frame on the right and left, which is especially designed for scratching. This is real life, if you like. You have to have clear principles, you have to have flexible execution. So. In the Air Force, they said you have to see far and fly. As we ourselves had taken as a deposit and some margins. This did not raise any particular problem. It can also affect the quality of reception. Of course. Of course, Yes, of course. And on the working conditions of employees in Adama and Hong Kong. Everyone has to adapt a little. We take a break every evening. When I got home, I was shaking. Employees who had to adapt a little to the conditions of the investment fund. Here are two. We found them where our investigation began in Pau. Jonathan Menard and Nabila Ben Allal met there in 2022. Recruited as social workers to take care of asylum seekers housed in the center. Both resigned, disgusted by the dysfunctions they experienced in this Pradal. We know that in the social sector, it's generally system B , but for me, it was beyond anything I could have imagined in my career. They didn't tell me much. That's what makes me complain even more. We are not asking for there to be individual 25 square meter rooms with walk-in showers and a kitchen with a bar. That's not what we're asking you. If you live even once , take an example if it's already there and as long as there is one person per room. This is everyone's daily life. Before VA, we would also lose 75% of daytime prices. So it's much less profitable. Yes, that's what it means to have a clean staircase, a toilet that has been heated and even if there is a little humidity, you don't mean anything. It's a bit like that for me, but that doesn't matter. It may be ancient, it may be old, it may be dilapidated. There you go, that's one thing. Whether it is filthy, whether it is unworthy and unrelated. In Pau, these employees also denounce an expense hunt. Didn't you have any toilet paper? In VC there are no pockets. We did that. Well, we asked for it too. Much too much of that. We were told it cost too much, that it could be stolen from us. Lots of little things like that in my comments, which I was told cost too much, sorry. On top of that, as soon as we brought something up, whether it was cockroaches, accommodation conditions or even working conditions, we said it's okay, there isn't the budget for it. Well, there's one thing we haven't told you yet. In some centers, there are not only isolated migrants. We also met families there who may have lived there for several years, like in Merignac, near Bordeaux. We see there. Today, they welcome 92 asylum seekers, some of whom are very young. And you hide in the room? You're three or more years old, it's true, but you're really tall. SO. Children who grow up surrounded by unsuitable equipment. According to residents, only four or five toilets work, or one toilet for 20 to 30 people. Good morning. Alice is eight years old. She has lived in this room with her mother for three years. And the toilets? How do showers work? I never found the toilets in the back, but there's my sister who says Ah, it's going to bother you a little because we 're all Congolese. Alice and her mother were granted refugee status last year. The little girl is in CE2 at school. Homework, where do you do it? In the bedroom? There, on the bed, we had asked for rooms. 113 But. And in Paris, in the 16th arrondissement? What does the former president of CDC Habitat think? Who ? We bring him photos of our visit to the center of Merignac. I'll leave it to you if you want to comment on them. She is a woman who takes action. What you see is a woman bathing her baby in the bedroom because she's not going to bathe him in the showers. This is one of the shower stalls which is the original shower stall. Actually two bedrooms. I'm telling you the things you're going to see, it's not ideal. I will go up. It's not deeply scandalous either, you know? But is it worthy of all this? Or is it worthy? Is that what it is. To tell me? What do we mean by dinner, anyway? Well, I don't know. Do you put your concept of dignity there? My conception of dignity, that is to say, is that first of all reception conditions, minimum comfort, healthiness are ensured by offering them a dignified habitat. Is it that or uh actually that's it. But are they still or a makeshift camp? And there, you see, honestly, there, I tell you what I think. How to say? It's a kind of prosecution instruction, you see, which is not. Neither objective nor realistic, that is to say , here it is, I'm going to tell you here, we are in an apartment in the 16th arrondissement. Bourgeois. Raise your head. Yes, it's true, we forgot to tell you about it. When we arrived at Mr. Richet's house, we noticed a big problem. Well, what happened? See, one of the guys below, water damage on the ceiling. Yes, you have water damage. Yes yes. Well, we give you a photograph of this thing and you say the former president of CDC Habitat does not live in a dignified world. Yes, but is it? No, no, but because behind all that, excuse me, it's not because you show water damage that you're doing it. An objective investigation of the file? No, I was simply going to tell you that indeed, the rest of the context of these buildings, all that, does not necessarily please your rapporteur, but what do you believe? Well, what we believe, Mr. X, is that the video of little Alice. Will bring about the end of our interview, which I have already clearly answered. And our interview will end there, if you like. So sorry, it's not at all for I'm giving you back your tablet because I feel that the interview went well. I will try to explain things to you and I think that now we are in the process of changing this whole register. So I would now ask you to please leave us. I don't even want to talk to you anymore. It's a shame all the same that you don't want to continue the interview. I see, it's discourteous. I receive you here at my home and you are discourteous. We're going to me. Reception of asylum seekers is not just accommodation, it is also administrative, legal and social support , a legal obligation. However, in the Prada system, human resources have been calibrated as accurately as possible. There is one social worker for 50 residents and sometimes more. However, there is an essential issue in helping applicants to best prepare their files to obtain their refugee status. A person is going to submit an asylum application and therefore you have an interview with them to prepare their file. So, there are a lot of things going on at that moment. Yes, everything is at stake there in fact, a first part of his asylum application and everything is at stake there. And with that, you had limited time . Yes, yes, on that, we had 50 minutes to 1 hour maximum. You with translation included. The person had to tell us everything, that is to say what happened in their country, why they fled. And during the exile, what happened if there were serious traumas? And we had to retranslate everything. Jerome seems to be a robot. Very well said. Under what conditions do you start? What happened? Was there a weapon? Is it that. How did he escape? Did he take transport? Is what if we should try to get our hands on. Well, are we applying for asylum or is he showing us photos of their father's foot? Because that's all that's left of him who stepped on a mine from his brother who was shot in the back of the head and we see these photos there. Okay, thank you, let's move on. We don't have time to tell you in 50 minutes. Or we don't have time to say it right away. And then we tell him and that's it, we'll send everything if you have other additional pieces. That's it, thank you, Have a nice day. Why this obsession with savings in these reception centers? The answer is partly to be found in the investment fund. Remember, in the financial package, CDC Habitat would have promised this novel. They communicated this to you at the time. The turn of the Fund or not, it was between three and 4%, between three and 4%. For real estate, that's quite a 3 to 4% annual return on an initial investment of 100 million euros. But taken together since the opening of the centers in mid-2017, how much has this fund brought in? We obtained the hemisphere accounts for the first five and a half years. Let's look at these dividends. If we add up everything that has already been paid. We currently arrive at a little over 18 million euros. And shareholders still have good years ahead of them. the State has committed to financing Prada until 2027. According to our calculations, in total, the fund could then have collected more than 32 million euros. The migrant business is not experiencing the crisis. But we have to tell you, despite its millions of dividends, one investor preferred to leave the Hemisphere fund. It was in 2019. Discreetly, MAIF, an activist insurer, withdrew by selling its shares. For what ? Here is what a naive manager revealed to us about this exit decision. There is much more in relation to hygiene and safety conditions, no longer on site. I believe that there were associations which, in fact, were openly involved with the president of the Leadership League. Student shifts too. But what the hell were we doing here in this mess? That's not the analyst's place. We had talked about slumlords and things like that and this equipment. In view of the factual elements, the decision is made naturally. Except that corn does not have the right to talk about all this publicly without the prior agreement of the fund manager. This is stated in this confidentiality clause signed upon its release. This clause is very effective. Even five years later, we call Pascal de Murger. The group's CEO puts an end to it. Four meters from Murger Hello, this is Elise Lucet. Am I disturbing you ? I'm in the boardroom and we can try to remember a little later. Yeah, but I'll try to call you several times in fact, because we're preparing a subject on Adoma, the reception centers for asylum seekers, the Pradas, have you come out of the background? This is old, already in 2019. And we wonder why you actually went out? Listen, I need to a little more precisely so as not to tell you anything stupid. But you don't remember the conditions of your overall departure that it was because the accommodation conditions were not good, you assure yourself, it really is all the time. Do you promise you'll call me back? It works, it works. Thank you Mr. de Murger, That's very kind. Thank you, Thank you. See you soon. THANKS. By SMS. The boss of La Naif will confirm to us that this confidentiality clause prohibits him from telling us anything. As we contacted them to ask for an interview. It's no. We decline. We do not wish to follow up. Or, he invites us to contact Adoma, the center manager. That's how Elise went to interview. So there, Emmanuel Ballu. Good morning. How are you doing ? Delighted to meet you. He is the general manager of the company. You have been running Adoma for a long time. For two and a half years, I caught the social bug. It's a virus without a past. But first, let's talk money. Between what the State gives you, do you have to pay private investors? Do you believe that you have enough money to both welcome and properly house the asylum seekers that you have built? We do not believe we are doing quality work and we are in the conditions of support expected by the State and investors. The Pradas have another particularity for almost all of them, they are old hotels. Formula Have they been transformed to accommodate these asylum seekers 24 hours a day? There has indeed been very significant work aimed at fitting out these rooms, but especially the common areas. I said which were not at all, but, for example, to which I show you these images. We are in the highest priest in France, in Pau. It houses 140 asylum seekers. This is what fire doors look like on the inside, so the windows and still the broken glass. And there, it's cardboard instead of the window, the joints which are completely torn, so the skin fire doors , they are in this state. Indeed, in this state, I am not sure that they meet fire safety standards and I am finding out. You're not sure. We must, we must indeed ensure that no. There are very regular checks carried out on our sites, based on Belgian standards. You are not sure that this fire door responds in this state? Clearly there is a problem. They were filmed at the beginning of 2024. These images of these people, so they are really a few months old and I take note of that. And so we will ensure as soon as possible that they are brought up to standard if they are not. How many asylum seekers are there per room? There are between one or two per room depending on family configurations, which is strictly in accordance with the standards that have been defined by the State. Most of the time, in all the cases that we have seen, Well, there are two per room. Yes, it's possible. So we had no luck, we only went to places where there were two people. I've seen more than half of them and I tell you, it's an average of one enemy person per room. In some rooms there are two of them, in others there are two. For nine square meters, that's four meters. 50 people. We tell ourselves that it's not much and we tell ourselves that it doesn't comply with the law. In fact, this is exactly what the State specifications provide, that is to say seven and a half square meters per person, taking into account collective spaces, seven and a half square meters per person. Indeed, you are right. This is the decree. He's here, right? I reread the decree. Reception centers for asylum seekers allow privacy to be preserved, namely a minimum of seven and a half meters per adult, isolated, in a shared or individual room. This is what I read, this is what is written. That's actually how it's worded and that's how it's applied. So in this case, the law is not respected. So there are two people taking into account the parties who are in the collective spaces, but no, that is not at all what is written. We are in total transparency with the State services who know full well that they know perfectly how to manage us, we welcome people to these sites. Have you ever been to Prada in Merignac? I didn't surrender. It's not one of the ones I've visited, but I've visited more than half of them. So I would like, forgive me if you haven't been there, but show you a testimony. It is that of a young resident. Her name is Alice. She is eight years old. She has been staying there with her mother for three years. She goes to school not far from the Prado. And here is what Alice explained to us Toilets are showers. How is it in the toilet? We have a desire to make . Fifteen-day rooms. Reaction to testimonies. Obviously that appeals to me. This is not a satisfactory situation at all. We don't go to the toilets, we have no choice, we don't have a work room. When you ask for one, you don't get it. It is extremely regrettable and I am very sincerely sorry for this young girl. She shouldn't have this little situation, this little girl. Absolutely. She is eight years old. Yes, I know, you are the boss there. This is what is happening. It's shocking, it's shocking. And indeed, we must ensure better reception conditions than those to which he is entitled. I am deeply sorry for this and I tell you, it is completely unsatisfactory and it is eminently regrettable. This situation should not exist. No one should have to go through this situation. What I want to tell you is that this does not reflect the ambitions we have in terms of quality of reception. So we analyzed the accounts of the Hemisphere fund, the owner of the buildings in five and a half years, the Hemisphere fund would have collected a little more than 18 million euros in dividends. We say to ourselves that part of these 18 million euros could have been used to buy toilet paper , to set up a games room, to set up a work room, to ensure that there is no water worn out. That's what we tell ourselves. But we could also have had hotel rooms for free. But it doesn't exist in reality. That's what I'm telling you. No, no, no, wait for me what I'm telling you here 24:21 Because I'm telling you I'm the 18 million euros in dividends that were paid to these private investors could have serve to effectively have quality reception conditions . But I don't know of any private investors or service providers who work at cost or at a loss. No, but even to the detriment of reception conditions. But that's not the point. And here, I tell you here the conditions that allowed us to have to rent these rooms thanks to the investors. This allows us to deploy more resources for support, for reception and the quality of reception. You haven't seen everything yet, Mr Ballu? By reading the investment fund's internal documents, we discovered a serious problem in several Pradas that could endanger their occupants. Asbestos. And the fund knew that. Before buying the hotels. In Pau, an audit reported problems in the fire doors and in Merignac, in problems with the interior walls. On site, here are the suspect coatings. In places, it even seems very damaged. At the entrance to a room, there is a gaping shaft in the partition, apparently filled with plaster dust. We're going to take a sample there. Then we send it to a laboratory for analysis. Fifteen days later. Here is the concentration of asbestos measured in our sample. There are 17,846 fibers per square centimeter. However, this duct saturated with asbestos is at the entrance to a room which accommodates a woman and her five-year-old daughter. Are you happy with your school? We will see the result. We went to present this analysis to a specialist. It's incredible! I have former workers who were sick with asbestos. We. Didier Faure runs his own expertise office, it is said. He also campaigns for better prevention at the Association for the Defense of Asbestos Victims . Is asbestos dangerous? Yes or no? The answer is yes. But no. It is dangerous for health. All it takes is one fiber, in fact. That's what we say: one fiber per square centimeter. We have 17,800 kilometers to go. No, I can't believe it. There is a risk, for example for this mother and her daughter who had been exposed. You see that obviously, yes. I would say that of course there is a risk. But now we have to plug it, what should we do about this hole? It's all the support that worries me. Do you have asbestos everywhere? It's crazy dangerous. It is the coating which is dangerous, it is the coating which is oriented. So have we taken air measurements? Today can the owner say no but we have asbestos in the coatings, but we did it. We take air measurements regularly. Has Adoma taken stock of the asbestos problems in some of its accommodation centers? Can the operator guarantee the safety of asylum seekers by returning to see Emmanuel Ballu, its general director? For you, is work involving anything that could be asbestos emergency work? Has this been achieved for you? Asbestos is a very specific subject. There are very easy standards. Is it urgent? When there is asbestos, it is urgent. It represents a health risk. That's what the law says. Ok. So we went to near Merignac, we took a dust sample in this duct left gaping at the entrance to a room where a mother and her five-year-old granddaughter live. So I'll show you the photos. There you have it, we took the sample. The result of the analysis, I'll let you discover it. He is here. There were found 17,846 asbestos fibers per square centimeter. It's totally satisfying. I take note of this. I don't know this situation and I tell you, these are not situations that we face because we carry out checks. We are constantly vigilant on these subjects. Safety is the very first subject. The health of people health on our sites. It's dangerous, obviously. Asbestos fibers are carcinogenic. There are 17,846 of them. And so this is obviously a problem that we need to take care of very quickly. How come we, when we go into arms, see that? And you, obviously, tell us everything is fine, it's great! I tell you what it is, namely that we have teams who are mobilized because it is our first concern, the health of the people who live in these sites, the health of the people who work. There is no greater priority for us. We devote a lot of resources to it. And clearly, they are not enough. So we're going to take note of it and we're going to look at what 's going on. But I tell you systematically, the scouting in Mantes, in any case that's what is asked of the teams, that's what is prescribed by law. And we even apply. Yes, I think I'll let me know because I have one last question. I promise, then it's over. In your opinion, is it a mistake to entrust the reception of asylum seekers partly to large private companies? For you, is welcoming migrants a market? Welcoming asylum seekers is the mission of tomorrow and of many associations and operators who must count. When ? When there is an emergency, solutions. I told you earlier, it's a very difficult job. These are very difficult equations on private partners. There are many public service missions which are carried out by relying on private partners or private support. So, you are still telling us, are you in favor of there being private investors in the migrant reception market? I don't know how to use this expression at all. That's why I'm asking you the question. And it's I don't know at all, it's not at all a common market as you say, it's a mission, it's a mission which is delegated by the State, a public service mission. And that brings a real contribution that we can have in the systems regarding the contribution of private partners. Thank you. Thank you so much. Thank you, ma'am. Since our filming, Adoma has carried out area measurements in the Merignac reception center. Their results are consistent, but according to their documents, they did not take samples in the area where we had detected high concentrations of asbestos. Finally, they announce to us that they have started work on the Pau site and are preparing to launch on the Merignac site. Lately, when we talk to you about immigration. You definitely hear that. Controlling immigration is also a demand from French people. We must better execute their obligation to leave French territory. This article aims to facilitate expulsions, particularly of people who represent a threat to public order. We could increase by three the expulsion or removal of delinquent foreigners. Eviction? But what are we talking about? In 2023, France carried out 11,722 forced removals. How are these illegal aliens sent back? First there are commercial flights on regular lines. The Interior Ministry buys tickets from companies and discreetly boards migrants before the rest of the passengers. They will be escorted throughout the journey. These deportations would represent 80% of forced removals. There remain certain removal operations of which there is absolutely no image. The ministry never communicates about it. They take place on board a jet, the one so far, whose level is impressive, which the State rents for the year from a private airline. But this plane, you will see, the State, visibly, prefers to fly it under the radar. First, when you call the Ministry of the Interior. To find out more, here is the answer. By doing this, we stop. This one is relaunched. Oh no, this one was in April and May. We have no more feedback. So I tried to transfer to the other departments to carry another note from the office, just to show him that all. Our first questions, however, are simple , why use a private jet in addition to commercial flights to return foreigners? What are the profiles of distant migrants? How much do these operations cost? It's the best on the subject. We will get back to you quickly. Hello ? Place Beauvau? No response. But luckily we have a tip. The head of the PAF would regularly stop in Marseille to pick up foreigners in an irregular situation. But not from the public airport. According to our information, it's happening near this small, remote terminal, reserved for private flights. Access to the tarmac is prohibited, but you can film the track through the fence. You actually have to be there, to just be here on this day. There is no theft, no estrangement. But it's only a postponement. A week later, we are back. Sorry for the moving image, but here we are in shock. Well yes, we can no longer see the track. Since our visit. These plates were installed on the fence and prevent us from filming anything. Say, is it because of us? It is. Because in fact, there is indeed a border police flight taking off from Marseille. We identify it thanks to this application which allows us to trace the planes present in the sector and thanks to a small particularity. Well, it was for 75, Pof 75, this is the designator used by the PAF for its outbound flights. Come on, we put POF 75 under surveillance and we also take the opportunity to ask the Ministry of the Interior for the profiles of the foreigners sent back on board. Again. It's silence at Place Beauvau. So we resume our investigation in the field. Ladies and gentlemen, your attention, please. Pof 75 is announced this morning at the other end of France. In another Orleans Loire Valley business airport. And this time, the view is perfectly clear from this field 300 meters from the terminal. A police car is already parked in front. And it happens that we see. Five minutes later, the PAF jet landed. It's a Beech Croft. Note carefully, its registration is five letters F, H, B. Is that it? On board, there are only police officers. Look, they're wearing an orange armband. We count ten. But where are the migrants? Here they are leaving the terminal under good escort. And there, be careful! We are going to witness a new concealment of the operation. Instead of hiding the migrants in the van, the police will hide them well behind it. Oh yes, they do that to hide the game. One after the other, each flanked by a pair of police officers, five men board. Counting the migrants plus the escort. The jet is almost complete. Inside, there are only 19 seats. Let's summarize a specially chartered jet with ten police officers on board to send back five migrants while waiting for takeoff from POF 75. One question bothers us. Who are these foreigners who are so important to remove so that the State deploys so many resources? Which countries do we take them back to? So tracking the plane? And so there, it is between Orleans and Vienne? Uh, what if they come there? No, no, no. Six. France does not expel Austrians. All the same? No, obviously. But then why send migrants back to our European neighbors? Why charter a private jet for short distances? When do we have cash questions? The solution is to go find a witness inside who agrees to answer. Hello ! That day, they were in the car. So we recreated the scene. A silhouette embodies it with another voice. Afterwards, if you want to do this anonymously, with total discretion, I don't mind talking to you, answering a few questions. We'll call her the escort because that's her job. This police officer is an active member of the national escort, support and intervention unit. Those who, within the border police, return distant migrants on commercial flights but also on Pof 75. We already knew this before the sale of PA 75. Well yes, it happens to you often. About once a week, towards Vienna, but not only. Oh yes, we do that, we do Madrid, we do Sofia, we do almost everything in Europe. Who are the people being taken back to Europe? It's what ? As type of profile? It could be Dublin readmissions, so obviously people from outside the EU who have entered these countries and. Basically, that's it, but it's a little more complicated. We explain to you, we call it the Dublin regulation because it was signed in Dublin in 2003 by the member states of the European Union. It concerns asylum seekers. According to this regulation, when a migrant enters the EU through a country with his request for asylum must be processed by the authorities of that country. As a result, if this migrant joins country B while waiting. This country has the possibility of sending him back to country A, while the latter status, at his request. An opportunity for country B to increase its forced removal figure. I'm not going to lie to you, you know, we only talk to you about numbers. We have to show that we are performing well at European level. We have to bring back figures, we have to make expulsions. It's Dublined. They are far from being anecdotal. In 2023, 2,739 asylum seekers were returned by France as part of a Dublin procedure, or 23% of forced removals. And it's readmission Dublin would be one of the engines of POF 75. We obtained its flight history in 2023. The PAF jet left France, Spain, Germany, Italy, Poland 164 times. The jet flies very regularly to the countries of the European Union and the Schengen area. But he also returned migrants from other European countries such as Albania or Bulgaria. According to our calculations, in 2023, all these referrals to Europe would have represented 59% of posse operations, 75. This is therefore the largest part of its activity. The remaining 41% are flights to Algeria and sometimes Tunisia. According to our information, POF 75 also participated in February 2024 in the expulsion of an imam accused of anti-French preaching in his mosque in Gard. Arrested at midday, sent back in the evening, imam Mahjoub Mahjoubi was therefore deported to Tunisia yesterday evening, welcomed Gerald Darmanin. Everything, everything, everything, everything, everything, everything, everything, everything, everything. But throws himself away. Escorting him will teach us. Would, in the eyes of the ministry, have yet another reason for existence. Sometimes we bring families. It's much more discreet than on an airliner . Families returned by private plane. The information was confirmed to parliamentarians by a senior state official in 2018. So I have to tell you that. We sometimes use the Beach Craft for family removals . For what ? Because family separations are particularly delicate, particularly because there are young children. When we use Beach Craft, it allows us to have more flexibility as to where we start. Otherwise we will have to go and arrest the family, place them in a detention center. Which will not fail to blame us for which will probably not leave until the next day or two days after that. The private jet is a flexible tool for more humane distances. It fits the moment. This is not quite the memory that Sandra, whom you already know, and her family have. In 2022, they were expelled from Cantal. The prefecture did not grant them asylum. This poor woman is us. It's just a parent who comes here to France to find work and provide a living for their child. That's it, that's that, that's that. In the early morning, after more than three years of living in France, the authorities pulled out all the stops to arrest them. That morning, I had to go to work. I get up, get dressed and go downstairs a little before 6 a.m. I open the door of the house and find police officers taking care of me. There, a big guy grabs me, pushes me against a wall and asks me my name. And there you have it. I had to stay outside and it was out. I heard the door. Boom and footsteps on the stairs. I heard the children crying because the police first entered their room. They found themselves alone with armed police officers. I wouldn't wish anyone to experience what we experienced that morning. It's I don't know how somebody. I don't understand how we can send so many police officers for a family with five children. This is not normal. The couple says that in total, around forty men were mobilized for their family. Their youngest son understood even less this deployment of means . He was seven years old. I was scared. I was shocked. I didn't understand what was happening. I didn't realize until I was in the car, on the way to the airport. She has a direct flight to Belgrade from Aurillac airport, which was completely closed that day for the operation. Discreetly, Sandra managed to take a few photos inside. Bottles. They put us in this van and with the van, they took us to the plane. The family boards an old acquaintance, FHB Seka aka Posse 75. Years of me that we find on duty all night. It's very, very little. Afterwards, it's a lot of advertising and a good quarter of something every evening . I'm listening to this police coming to get my just a little. It affects everyone, all the time. After a 3-hour flight, arriving at Belgrade as a goodbye, Sandra says that the French escorts gave her a surprising speech. So for CNDs, no. Oh, it's soft, true, It doesn't matter, Now you leave Belgrade and then return to France. What's the problem? That's right. Uh. It's true. After all, Serbia is almost next door. All this money spent when we could just sit on a bus to return, return it with a bus ticket from Serbia, That's without EUR150. It's because when they leave. Among our interlocutors, another seems to share the same conclusion. The one whose job is precisely to bring back the migrants to escort him. This PAF police officer has been participating in removal operations for almost a decade . It's true that when we accompany people to Zagreb or Belgrade, these are the people who can see their death. That's what they do. That's why we. I could tell you that. A little cooperation behind this policy which may seem vain. The police officer also questions the profile of the people forcibly removed. We often hear that the priority now is on public order disturbances. In practice, given necessarily the case all the time. Actually. But if we do too. But instead of focusing on these people, we bring back many more people whose simple fact is to be in France and not to have papers and not to have caused too many big difficulties, big problems judicial. This means that we can also bring back people who are in fact. Actually, is that what you mean? Well yes, sometimes we bring back poor guys who have worked for 30 years and who get caught because there was a URSSAF check and we bring them back because they are on construction sites without papers. I think we are in a profession where we hope to be of service to society and we realize that it is not always the big bad guys, or even that. Migrants sent back by private jet. How much does it cost the State to rent this plane? Which airline benefits from this contract? We are trying to find out more about this aircraft used by the PAF thanks to a detail of the five letters written on it F, H, B. What is an aircraft? It's like a car. Each vehicle has its registration. Except that unlike a car, all the information linked to this registration is public, accessible in the civil aviation aircraft register. F. HBC This refers to a private company, the Salaire company. A French company which operates regional lines. It's the lady who says it. Choose your destination from our regional lines and organize your trip with ease. The heat boss will undoubtedly be able to enlighten us on the precise terms of his collaboration with the ministry. Chaleur Aviation thanks you for your call and invites you to wait a few moments. We therefore called Alain Battisti to arrange an interview. Hello ? Yes, Mr Battisti. Yes, it's me. I am a journalist, I work for France Deux. I am particularly interested in air expulsions and therefore the flights carried out by the border police. I will not give interviews about this. It seems like a failure for the pun interview afterwards, I don't know. Our responsibility is to rent an aircraft obtained. This is the expression that is used in this type of operation, that is to say that we provide them with a machine and we carry out the maintenance of this plane when after them, they decide where they are going, of what they do according to orders from their hierarchy. All right. So you, very concretely, are paid by the company. What is she paid for? Very concretely, read the market and you will have the answer. Would you possibly agree to provide us with the turnover that the company achieves on this market, year after year for the past four months? According to the heat boss, or even sir, all we would need to know the cost of 75 is to read the public market. So we delve into the documents. In fact, this is the only information available. the State pays a global amount to the company for the permanent provision of an aircraft and its technical maintenance. 8.166 million euros over four years minimum, or more than 2 million euros per year. So for the year 2023 EUR10,700 per flight day carried out. But here, we are only talking to you about the cost of renting the plane. To this, the ministry must add the fuel bill, the salary of the pilots and that of the escorts on which the number on board depends. Well yes, in the number of distant migrants. This data has never been made public. So obviously, we requested this information from the Information and Communication Directorate of the Ministry of the Interior, in conjunction with the Ministry of the Interior, for security reasons and to improve the quality of service. . What is called here is where can be recorded. It lasted. More than six months. And then finally, on a magnificent autumn day, our phone rang. Hello ? Yes, hello, lady. It's just the Home Office, ma'am. Yes, I'm calling you. I am responsible for appeal assessments following your contact with the Home Office. All right. And so, yes, if you obtained the information, you mean to the information and communications directorate? No. And to tell you the truth, in fact, we've been trying to get this information for six months . Oh my! So there, you got absolutely nothing and you say that you have six months to wait. Is that it? Madam ? Well, listen, we're here, so it's going to improve, I'll note that in any case. THANKS. Goodbye, Madam. Well after 12 p.m., Aurore. After this conversation. We regain hope. Come on, we believe it! The Ministry of the Interior will eventually respond to us. We promise, we'll keep you informed. Okay.