- [Voiceover] Organisms have got to get their To do this, they package into specialized cells called sex cells. This is the sperm cell. It's the sex cell of the male. The sole purpose of the sperm, the entire reason for its existence, is to transfer the male's genetic material into the female sex cell or the egg. So the sperm cell is packed with features that allow it to fulfill its job. It's basically a little torpedo. You can see, just like a torpedo, it has a pointed head which allows it to travel in the forward direction. At the back end it has the tail, and the tail is just a flagellum, and as the flagellum spins it And then it has a middle section. Now within that middle section, wrapped around the base are all of these little You can see I'm drawing these mitochondria wrapped around the flagellar base here. And mitochondria are organelles that are responsible for And the sperm cell has right into the base of the flagellum here. Probably 75 to 100, and they're In fact, these mitochondria to create big organelles. And the reason is because the sperm torpedo towards the egg, it needs a lot of energy. And that all comes from Now the payload of the and that's the genetic material, I'll draw it kind of all coiled back here. And here's the nuclear envelope here. And just like any regular torpedo, the sperm torpedo has a And that warhead is a called the acrosome. And the acrosome is gonna be important later on for fertilization. But that's pretty much it. There's a tail at the back some mitochondria in the middle section to give energy to the tail, a head which contains and the acrosome. This is a pretty bare bones cell. It's designed to move fast There are no bells and whistles here. Now that's in contrast to the egg cell. Now the first thing you'll notice is that the egg cell is round, unlike the torpedo This is not a cell that's The second thing is that compared to the sperm cell. It's so big, in fact, In fact, sometimes it is Now compared to the sperm the egg cell is about And similar to the sperm cell, the egg cell has its ready to combine during fertilization. You can see it here within the nucleus. And so you may have noticed this thick outer coating on the egg cell here, that's a very important structure And the zona pellucida is a that sit on the outside of the egg. And glycoproteins are basically a protein, I'll draw a protein here in green, with a whole bunch of that are coming off of them. And so what this looks like or a long branching of the edge of the egg cell. And there's a whole bunch of them, and they form this very thick that the sperm has to get through. And the edge of the egg cell And once the sperm can deliver its genetic material beyond that, fertilization has occurred. Now there's a whole within the egg cytoplasm as well. And remember this thing is huge. And I'm gonna draw in a few here in green. Now what I'm drawing in are Now remember the egg cell had right at the base of the flagellum to provide energy to drive locomotion. Well, the egg cell has mitochondria too. It's got a lot of other But the egg cell is so large, it's got somewhere between 100 and 200 So keep those mitochondria about them a little bit So now that you've met the the sperm and the egg, sex cells respectively, we can talk about what happens when they meet. And that process is called fertilization. So we'll go ahead and And we'll put a quick This is the zona pellucida So we'll draw the sperm here We'll draw its tail. We'll draw its middle section here. And we'll draw its torpedo-like head here. Get rid of all this zona pellucida glycoprotein in the middle here. Now here are the mitochondria and we have the genetic material payload of our sperm torpedo here in the back, and our acrosome here in the front. Now the first thing that is that the sperm comes into contact with the zona pellucida. And the zona pellucida actually binds to the outside of the sperm, and that's called sperm binding. And it's step number one. Now what happens when the sperm gets bound to the zona pellucida is called the acrosomal reaction. So step number two is called And that little warhead gets released, and so we have that were sitting in the head into that zona pellucida. And as those enzymes leak to digest away the zona pellucida. Here you can see I'm kind of eating away here at those glycoprotein, and that allows the sperm towards our plasma membrane. Now as the sperm gets closer of the egg, and it comes it starts up a process of binding. The two touch and they come together. And as they start together, and that third reaction is And what I haven't drawn here is another structure in the egg, and those structures are right underneath the plasma membrane, and they just sit there waiting. And they wait and their entire job is to wait for a sperm to bind. And as soon as a single sperm binds, they get ejected out into Just like the acrosomal enzymes, these enzymes that are contained within the cortical granules also start eating away at the zona pellucida. These enzymes eat away, and these glycoproteins, but the glycoprotein that So at this point we have a set off the cortical reaction, and these cortical granules are released that chew up all the other places that more sperm can bind. So as our other sperm they're just bouncing off. They hit the glycoproteins, to bind to isn't there because and degraded by these cortical granules. So that's actually called Now that's a very important concept. Polyspermy is a term that And what we don't want is to inject its nuclear material, What you'd end up with is an egg with a single contribution from mom and then one or two or or genetic material from dad. And that would never all sorts of problems as Occasionally, that does happen, and it can result in a zygote that fails. But for the most part, as dissolve away all the of the zona pellucida, other and they bounce off as they arrive. So now we have a sperm that's made its way all the way to the plasma It's started to bind the acrosome is gone, It's done its job. The cortical granules have been released, and they're preventing And we start to actually of our sperm cell and our egg cell. And that allows for this All of the genetic all of the genetic of the sperm cell can start to come out and get released here into the egg. And once we have fusion that is fertilization. So just to recap, we'll go back to look at our close-up of our sperm. We can see that it's a evolved basically to get genetic material from the male to the female egg cell. It's got a tail that propulses it, it's got mitochondria that feed it energy, it's got a head with a and an acrosome warhead on the tip. The egg cell is a giant It's got a specialized on the outside that have a and then a bunch of cytoplasm, And then the process of is called fertilization. Sperm binds to the zona you have an acrosomal reaction, and then a cortical reaction prevents more than one sperm getting in. And then material, the genetic material of the sperm is transferred. Now you'll notice here that I drew the genetic material from Now some of you may be wondering, &quot;Well don't mitochondria have Well, that's true. Mitochondria And potentially, some can get sucked in during that genetic transfer process as well. But remember, our egg cell had 100 to 200 thousand mitochondrial copies, and our sperm cell only had 75 to 100. Now there's a little bit of debate, but in the end the male contributes essentially no mitochondria to the zygote that's formed after Now, it could be that actually do make their way We're not really sure. But given just the numbers, statistically with one versus only 75 to 100, nearly from the mitochondria is gonna