He is remembered as a military genius, a tactician At the age of 35, having just crowned himself conquering all of Europe. His name was Napoleon Bonaparte and he was, He made use of his extraordinary way with and, later, his autobiography. He regularly commissioned portraits and sculptures in the best light. Even when he made moves to crown himself Emperor, convince the populace that it was their idea. Napoleon has always aroused one of two emotions; Everything around him seemed bigger than life. Yet, he had none of the physical traits that foot, two), had extremely pale skin, small stout neck. Despite this, his inner self-belief projected natural leader of men. It led him to the dizzying heights of victory In this week's Biographix, we discover the " I found the crown of France in the gutter, Early Life In the Spring of 1769, the tiny island nation A hardy band of Corsican patriots were determined their land. They never stood a chance. After a year of fighting, death and carnage The survivors trudged through the mountains Among them were Letitzia and Carlo Bonaparte. Letitzia was six months pregnant. It was the Day of the Feast of Assumption, to her second child. He was named Napoleon. Napoleon's father, Carlo, gave up the flag was assured. He refused to fight on in the mountains with The 23- year-old university student ingratiated took on the trappings of French privilege. It was something that his second son would as a traitor who had betrayed his countrymen. Carlo entered upon a law practice. Before long he had won election to the Corsican He became accepted among the elite of Corsican rulers. Yet, the more successful he became, the more son. In contrast to how he viewed his father, the Letitzia was a strong willed, hardy woman. Of her 13 pregnancies, she ended up with 8 A harsh disciplinarian, she would tolerate Yet, Napoleon would later reminisce that all that he had received at his mother's knee. Military Academy Napoleon set foot on the French mainland for father having secured him a position aat the in Northern France. He hated it. Accustomed to the warmth of the Mediterranean, To top it off, the skinny, uncoordinated country Any one of the facts that he was a scholarship with a strange accent would have been enough Yet, somehow, Napoleon accustomed himself His stubbornness and tough exterior made him classmates. Soon they, along with his teachers, lost interest Napoleon became a loner. At the age of 16, Napoleon began his military with the country's most elite artillery He learnt his trade well and developed into of men. Yet, the advancement that he had mapped out He soon realized that hard work and application career; position and money also played their He had neither. By his late teens, Napoleon found himself He knew that he was destined for great things. Yet nothing was happening for him. He was bored to death. What Napoleon needed was a cataclysmic event him with the opportunity to grab hold of and Little did he know that it was waiting just the corner. Paris in Flames On July 14, 1789 Paris erupted in revolution. The spark that unleashed the revolution in over an armory called Hotel des Invalides, prison in search of powder and shot. Word spread of the crowd's success and uprisings manor houses overrun. The country was in turmoil. Twenty-year-old Napoleon was far from Paris Though not a revolutionary himself, he welcomed privileges which he so despised. After all, it was this very system which had of rank that he felt was his due. When the French Republic was declared in the to play a part. Formulating a plan, he took leave of absence was now a part of France. He was intent on entering local politics and his influence on the national stage. The Corsican governor, however, rebuffed Napoleon, Napoleon reacted by setting up a power base He attracted a following of young, impetuous But the establishment proved too strong. Napoleon was forced to flee to the mountains. He and his entire family were labelled traitors Setting sail for France in June, 1793, Napoleon skinned as a result of his unhappy experience The experience also caused a mental displacement; French. That France, however, was going to have to Taking Control Napoleon returned to the army as an artillery He was quickly ordered to Toulon, a city of The citizens of this southern port city had It was the French artillery's job to prevent to subjugate the rebels. The problem was that the British were defending Napoleon knew that he had been presented with Aristocratic officers had fled France, leaving fill. All he had to do was prove himself. On his command, guns and supplies were rushed to man them. The regular infantry were intensely retrained He also began to display flashes of the charisma his ranks. On December 17, he personally led the assault His bravery and cunning were immediately apparent. Throwing himself into the fray, he fought Unlike most commanders, Napoleon led from A horse was shot from under him and an enemy Yet, he continued to attack and his forces Within hours, 10 British ships had been destroyed The local people were subjugated. It was a stunning victory for Napoleon, one In the spring of 1795, Napoleon visited Paris, While there, he was charged with subjugating He jumped at the opportunity, gathering cannon He set his guns up inside the Tuileries in When the attack came, Napoleon commanded his them. Waiting until he could see the whites of their decimated the Parisian mob. "The enemy attacked us. We killed a great many of them. Now, all is quiet. I could not be happier," Bonaparte wrote Napoleon was triumphant. Within a month he had been made a full general. At just 26 years of age he was the Commander Victory After Victory As a reward for his success against the Parisian army in Italy. There he was charged with defeating France's allies, and push them back over the Alps. This was his first opportunity to fight on capitalize on the opportunity. Prior to his arrival, Napoleon's generals upstart with allusions of grandeur. When Bonaparte arrived in the flesh, his generals They had vastly underestimated their new commander. He quickly put them in their place. For nearly two years their incompetence had with nothing to show for it but a general As the generals but their lips, Napoleon addressed "Soldiers, you are naked and ill fed. No fame shines upon you. I will lead you into the most fertile plains will lie in your power. You will find there honor, glory and riches. The men were enraptured by their new leader. Smiling and laughing in their midst, he was He picked up their spirits and made them believe Infusing them with passion, he began molding Meanwhile, the other European powers had become The execution of their king and queen led would spread and threaten their own kingdoms. This led them to quickly move against the This led to a series of wars between France Napoleon built his army into the most efficient Over the next three years he brought stunning Austria and parts of North Africa. His North African invasion was actually a a trading route. Though he failed to bring Egypt under Control, to Paris in 1799. Yet, he faced a nation in turmoil. The government had no money, the Austrians and some people even wanted to bring back Rumors of a coup were rife. With the people and the army behind him, Napoleon a new government that was to be headed by One of those three men was Napoleon Bonaparte And it was he who everyone knew was going Immediately Napoleon took control. He adroitly sidelined the other two Consuls, himself First Consul. At 30 years of age, Napoleon Bonaparte had to become the most powerful man in France. Absolute Power As the absolute central power in France, Napoleon one failed attempt to replace the rule of For many people, the conditions they found were worse than before the Revolution. They looked to Napoleon to save them from First, though, he had to save them from the The Austrians had regrouped and gained back during the Italian campaign. The Archduke, Francis II, was intent on cutting do as he pleased. As was his custom, Napoleon decided to take In the Spring of 1800 he took his 40,000 strong It was a harrowing trek, his men dragging covered mountain ranges which towered to a Men died en route and, as the Grand Armee they were in a state of utter exhaustion. They had made the crossing in just six days. Battle was joined on June 14th. At day's end 7,000 French men lay dead. The Austrians, who had finally retreated from The totally spent Grand Armee had won again. The Austrians withdrew and, early the next Great Britain was the only nation that could He was the supreme ruler of the land mass However, Great Britain had unquestioned command Fabulously rich due to her colonial conquests Britain decided it was time to halt the rise She declared war on France on May 18, 1803. Napoleon decided it was time to invade England. Displaying the laser like focus that epitomized "All my thoughts are directed towards England. I want only for a favorable wind to plant As it turned out, the French invasion of Great By September, 1805 war with Austria, now fortified The Grand Armee was being rushed from the Empire. Then, on October 21, the Royal Navy smashed of Trafalgar, leaving the French essentially The British were safe - for now. In December 2nd, 1804 Napoleon had himself in a lavish ceremony. In all but name and place it was just like telling difference. Napoleon, the controller of his own fate, of it, upon his own head! Austerlitz On December 2nd, 1805 Napoleon found himself time fortified by Russia. It would prove to be the Little General's He deliberately abandoned a strategic position Empire so that his army, which numbered around He then weakened his right flank so as to They left their center open to counterattack By 4:30pm the Allies were either dead or far The battlefield had fallen silent. The Battle of Austerlitz was over. What had begun as a great allied opportunity had ended, not only in their own defeat, but The grand victory at Austerlitz was followed Over the next five years, victory followed bowed to the dictates of Emperor Napoleon. Only one European nation remained to be brought The Russian Campaign Napoleon and a colossal army crossed the Neman but it turned out to be the undoing of his The Russians systematically retreated and deep into their territory. Then, when they did did do battle, it was The French entered Moscow a week later, only The retreat ended up being even more costly. Soldiers had insufficient clothing for the disease devastated the ranks, and Russian A little over a sixth of the 600,000 men who It was a blow from which the Little General By now the political map of Europe had changed. The British, Spanish and Portuguese pushed War. A grand coalition was formed, with the decisive October 1813. Known as the Battle of the Nations, it left Exile &amp; Return Napoleon escaped only to find open hostility The Legislative Assembly, the Senate and even He had no choice but to abdicate, which he It was agreed to send Napoleon into exile After ten months of exile, Napoleon had had Somehow, on the night of February 26, 1815, sail in a small boat for the mother country. With him were a handful of loyal soldiers. Miraculously, they managed to elude British Stepping foot back on French soil, he fixed been torn from him. After six days, he and his few men were halted to detain him. Napoleon, strode ahead of his followers and Soldiers, he declared, if there is one among here I am. His charisma had done it again. Rather than rush to take him captive, the Cheers of "long live the emperor!" filled the air. Suddenly he had an army. As he closed in on Paris, he drew more and In one place after another, troops defected The writing was on the wall. By the time Napoleon rode into Paris, Louis Napoleon was back in command. The people welcomed him as a redeemed hero. Downfall Across Europe, the Allies were in shock and The devil had been unchained. They would have to unite once more to stop This time, though, they would have to totally back. Napoleon was declared an outlaw and a disturber They massed their armies for attack. The great reckoning was at hand. It would be delivered on a field of rye and called Waterloo. On June 18th, 72,000 French soldiers faced of Wellington. While the fighting seemed even, Napoleon made Guard too late. His most fatal error was to wait until midday to let the muddy ground dry. This gave the Prussian's time to enter the They smashed against his right flank and the Four days later, Napoleon abdicated again He was packed off to the remote British Colony At 46, Napoleon was a man without a future. The man of unstoppable ambition, the man of to reading the newspaper and gardening. He died on May 5th, 1821 likely from stomach Days before, when he knew that his time was . . . To die is nothing. But, to live defeated and without glory is every day.