(crashing waves) (peaceful ambient music) (panting) (scribbling) - Are you ready? - I feel confident. - You're a fine candidate, Leah. - I heard that only one fellow - I believe in you and more than anyone else. Good luck. - Okay. (calm acoustic guitar music) - I can't get married. I think, I think you love me. I think you love me but you, (mumbles) You think you love me not at all. I'm a fucking monster. This guy's a fucking loser. No money. No money, no money, no money, no money. Spend it all, I spend it all on you. You think, you think you know me, but, you think you know me, but you don't. You don't know the real me. - We'll do a couple more of them. I think this is in the back already. (clears throat) - Please go ahead and state your name. - Samuel Davis. - Through my dissertation work entitled &quot;Re-Engineered T Cells&quot;, I have been studying tumor immunotherapy with T-lymphocytes, with and destroy malignant cells. The method used consists of to specifically target cancer cells in patients with leukemia. - [Casting Assistant] Great, - Jane... we can't get married. You think you love me, (sighs) you don't know me. You don't know the real me. 'Cause the real me, a fucking loser! I'm a monster. I'm broke, Janie. I got no money, it's gone. And it's not because my job it's because fucking gamble all of it, before I ever even make it! - I look forward to the St. Gabriel's fellowship program and continuing my cancer (audience applauding) - The money we've been savin'... (panting) I blew the last of it yesterday. I'm sorry, baby. (phone ringing) Chris, they offered me the role. The director, Golden in the room, he just offered it to Yeah, call him to see if it's official. Just call him right now All right, call, call, call! (calm ambient music) (phone ringing) Yeah? - [Voiceover] Dude, you've got it. You booked the Warner movie! - [Samuel] Are you serious? - Dude, I just got phone with Dave, he said you're playing as somebody big. I don't know what it (phone clatters on ground) - Woo hoo hoo hoo! Yeah! (upbeat electronic music) - Yeah! Hey, movie star! There he is. Look at you, man! How you been? - [Man] Yes! (chuckling) - Promise, man, next have some famous chick on your arm we won't recognize you. - Did he get the movie? - Tim shut up, he got the movie, Look how successful he looks right now! Hey guys, real quick. For those who don't know him, this is my very good friend Sammy. Today he booked his first major role. And as his manager, I will take 50% as per our contract. (background laughter) - So guys, real quick, don't care, for those of you who do care, for those of you who love One, two, three, cheers, guys. (people cheering) - Another quick note, for looking for him for the next 15 minutes, he'll be getting his ass by me, let's top that up! (people cheering) (upbeat electronic music) (electronics humming) - [Voiceover] Oh my - Gosh, how many times have - Sorry. In case you haven't noticed, - And we got AP samples today. - Yes, I'm aware (sighs). (sighs) Hey um, some of us are goin' to Pat's - What's that? - Never mind. (waves crashing) (sighs) (sighs) (laughter) - Shut up! - Get off, get off! No touching, no touching! (laughter) Don't even act like you in a swimming thing because - Okay. - I'm gonna win. - You gonna place? - Oh! I am gonna be happy! (laughing) - [Tim] I lost at beer pong, sometimes too and I'm always -- - [Samuel] Come on, shut the hell up! Who gives a shit? You can't stand a chance. - You're done, you're You're so done. I'm like Aquaman, but - You're so slow! - [Tim] Gonna count to three! - I'm not ready! I'm not - [Samuel] Well, excuse me. Wait, to the pier and - [Tim] Two! - Watch your nuts, watch your nuts! Watch 'em, watch 'em! - And three! - [Samuel] Oh, no, no, no, no. - [Tim] Watch out for the water, Sammy-o! - It's too cold, it's too cold, Sammy. I'm out. - [Manager] I'm out. (dark ambient music) (waves crashing) Yeah! (laughing) Woo! (Leah panting) Yeah, baby! Woohoo! (thud) (splash) (peaceful ambient music) (beeping) (P.A. announcement (breathing machine) - Stop it! - What's wrong? You alright? (spraying water) (Leah panting) (noisy outside traffic) (pills clattering) (clack) (busy city ambiance) (high-pitched tone) - Turn down the light. - Samuel? Are you ready? Let us know if you need more time. (Samuel slowly panting) - [Voiceover] How was the audition? You think you got the part? So you can really get out there and start to push yourself harder. - [Voiceover] Katie, don't start. - [Katie] There's nothing - [Voiceover] It's not that easy, Katie. There are many talented actors out there! - Well, what if he's You think you got the part? - [Voiceover] One step at a time! He's still recovering. - [Katie] We know that you're healthy. - It's not that easy, Katie. There are many talented actors out there! (many voices talking over each other) Won't you leave him alone now, please? He's still recovering, that's up to him. It's only been a few weeks! - So you can really get out there and start to push yourself harder. (shouting over each other) All you're doing is - [Voiceover] I'm not - [Katie] He's perfectly capable - [Man] He'll get back on track when he's ready to get back on track! (thud) - How's everyone else doin' tonight? (atmospheric ambient music) (moody electronic music) - Sammy, Sammy, Sammy! Did you get my e-mail, bud? - Uh, yeah. - Yeah yeah, the e-mail. The audition contracts, you got that? - [Samuel] Mm-hm. You sure you're up for it? - Yeah. - Alright. We gotta get you back out you know, I guess it's up to you. What's up, Jackie? - Hi, guys. (Samuel groans) She said she needed a (Samuel sighs) Great. Sammy. Sammy, get back here. Sammy, where are you goin'? - It's too loud! - Okay what about Jackie? Are - No! - Why not? What are you, a jackass? Dude, you could use a - I don't need a girlfriend, okay? I just, I don't feel - You know what dude? You need to get over this, okay? I get it, it sucks. You got passed on a major But dude, this piss-poor attitude of yours is not getting anyone, anywhere. - I'm fucking trying, you asshole! - Okay, well try harder, Sammy! (dark ambient music) - Nurse. Nurse! (phone ringing) - [Voiceover] Hello? - Is this Leah? (sighs) It's Samuel. I don't know if you remember me. - Of course I do. - [Samuel] I was gonna call before. - Oh, that's okay. I understand. - Do you wanna, (sighs) maybe grab some coffee? - [Leah] Sure. - How about today? Around five o'clock? - [Leah] Yeah, that works. I'll call you after work. - Thank you. (car horn) Leah? Hey. I'm, (sighs) I'm sorry, I don't do well with crowds. Not lately. - It's late, I need to get going. - [Samuel] Yeah. - It's nice seeing you again. (wind whistling) - You still feel like coffee? I have coffee, or uh, ah, shoot. Sorry, tea. I have coffee or tea. I just live a few blocks (warm ambient music) - Tea sounds good. (elevating humming) - I'll go put the tea on. - Yeah, okay. (clattering) - [Samuel] (groans) - [Leah] Oh, I see. - [Samuel] Here. - I've got, um... some sugar, or honey? - [Leah] Oh no, no that's - Oh, really? - Yeah. It's bad for you. - Um, have a seat. - Thanks. Aren't you having coffee? - Oh, I hate coffee. - Oh. - Uh, thank you. For what you did. For risking your life like that. - Oh. You would have done the same thing. - I don't know. - So have you seen someone - Oh, uh. Yeah, but there's nothin' wrong. Or, I mean, they don't... nothing... they don't find anything wrong. Uh, so you're a doctor? - Yeah, mm-hm. Well, I'm more like a research scientist. Well, I'm studying specific - What for? - [Leah] The goal is And hopefully, cures to like leukemia and, you know. - Why? (titters) Not &quot;why do you try to cure cancer&quot;, why did you... you know, like. - Uh, are you like secretly - (sighs) No, sorry. - It's okay, I don't mind if you are. (Samuel sighs) - This is so weird. I just, I feel like I - Um, well the brain is that's one explanation. Um. (calm ambient music) Um, I should go. I need to get back to the lab. - Yeah. Can I see you again? - Yeah. Samuel, um... thank you for the tea. - Yeah. - [Leah] I'm glad I came. - Me too. - Okay. Bye. (Leah sighs) (wondrous string music) (slow heartbeat) (phone ringing) - Hello? - [Leah] Samuel? - Leah? - [Leah] Did I wake you? - Uh, uh, no. - [Leah] I'm sorry to call perhaps you were awake. - Yeah. I am. - [Leah] Would you like to - Yeah. - [Leah] Great. I have time until seven. - Um, what time is it now? - [Leah] 5:30. - (tuts) Um. Yeah, where were you thinking? (seagulls squawking) (crashing waves) (rumbling) (typing) There you go. - I'm not used to this. - [Samuel] Used to what? - Like just, you know, hanging out? - Too much work? - [Leah] (chuckles) Not enough time. - Well, you look like you work too much. (Leah chuckles) - So, you are an actor. - I, yeah tried to. - [Leah] Have you been in many movies? - Some. (Leah sighs) Are you sure we haven't met before? - I don't think so. - Maybe we ran into each other once and I was the only one paying attention. - (chuckles) Maybe. - [Samuel] You play the piano. (peaceful ambient music) - No. - Oh. Well, you have beautiful hands. Um, can I get you some water? - [Leah] No thanks. - [Samuel] I'll be right back. (Samuel breathes deeply) Do you still draw? - I don't know. (sighs) (melancholic music) (sketching) (sketching) (moving water) (spraying water) - [Leah] This may sound really strange, it really makes no sense. - [Voiceover] That's alright. Go ahead. - [Leah] I seem to have post-traumatic stress disorder. - [Voiceover] I see. And what makes you think that? What are your symptoms? - Well I, um... a fear of water has developed in me. I'm terrified of water now. - [Voiceover] Can you - Um. I haven't taken a shower in four weeks? I can't wash my hands It's deeply affecting my I made an appointment to I was hoping it would get any improvement since. - So, I'm going to give To help you cope with your anxieties. And then, we'll take it from there. Okay? - [Voiceover] Good morning, Leah. - Good morning. I apologize for being late. - Leah, we're eager to hear about the progress on your research. - Yes. (sighs) By analyzing the results conducted in mice, we can conclude that have successfully by allowing T-cells to respond However, targeting to cancer cells and still remains a challenge. - Correct. To date there are no direct results indicating that this at targeting cancer cells. - Yeah well, perhaps there's more to it. - We understand your enthusiasm but until we can prove that the infused T cells kill tumor cells, we can't draw any conclusions. - Look, we often disregard that could benefit a patient's well-being based on numbers and figures? I mean, we might not be killing certainly be improving the - Leah, let's not forget that quality of life is not science. - Excuse me. - Hi. - Hi. - Sorry to just, uh... show up (chuckles) like this here. I, um... well, I wanted to just give you this. I wanted to give it to you in person. - Thank you. You didn't have to. - I know, but I just wanted to. Oh, don't. Or, sorry. (chuckles) Can you just wait? Open it later? Sorry. - (chuckles) Um, can I - It's just a couple of blocks. - Could I walk you home? - Alright. (calm ambient music) Thank you. - Yeah, no problem. - I should get going. - [Samuel] Sure. Okay. - [Samuel] Goodnight. - [Leah] Goodnight. Samuel! Would you like to come in? Can I offer you anything to drink? - Uh, no thanks. No. You said you didn't play. - Oh, I don't. It belonged to my parents. They passed away so - Oh, sorry to hear that. - It's okay. It was a long time ago. I hardly remember them. (piano melody) (cacophonous ambient music) - [Samuel] Have you read all of these? - What's that? - [Samuel] Have you read all these books? - Yeah. Um. You should probably go, it's - Sure. Can I ask you something? - Yeah. - Why'd you risk your life for a stranger? - I had to. (kissing) (Leah panting) - Hey. Leah. - Not now, okay? We got - It's important. (sighs) - What? What? What? - That's what I'd like to know. Are you sick? - No! Of course not! - Leah, look at yourself. Everyone's noticed, not just me. Leah, careful! (Leah panting) - [Voiceover] Leah? (heartbeat) Leah, you're dehydrated. We're giving you some fluids, alright? (high-pitched tone) (Leah coughs) - Hey, Leah. - Hey. Thanks. - [Eric] You overworked yourself. And your body eventually - I know something happened Something went off in my brain. - Give yourself a break. It's only been a few weeks and and I don't just mean the accident. - Sorry. (Leah panting) (gentle orchestral music) (elevator humming) (door opening) - [Samuel] Hey. - I need to talk to you. - [Samuel] Yeah? (melancholic music) (both breathing heavily) Leah. Have you ever felt - You don't know me. - That doesn't change how I feel. - Do you believe in coincidences? - No. - I do. I do and I... (sighs) I think that we given the circumstances, Us. Look, I have to focus on my work, I can't afford any distractions right now. - Distraction? Is that what I am? Do you feel nothing? - We're different. - Are we? - [Leah] I can't do this. - What were you doing that day? The morning of the accident. - I was jogging. - Down at the pier that early. - Yeah, I couldn't sleep. - See! It's not a coincidence that you and I met! I'm standing here because of you! - Look, I'm sorry. (Leah sobbing) (thunder rumbling) (Leah panting) (scribbling) (doctor sighs) - Here you go. I suggest, that through hypnosis we see if any memories come up that can - Dr. Henderson, I was hoping traditional approach. - I understand. Hynotherapy is an option such as yours, and you - But okay, if you can't that I need to know now! (Leah sobbing) - Unfortunately, there's on the market that can make (phone ringing) (phone clattering) - Hey, hey, excuse me. Excuse me, hey! Can you read this? Look, sorry man, I don't have the time. - Okay, can you please just, fine! Buddy can you just do me a favor and -- - I have a family, man! (Samuel groaning) (background conversations) - Good morning, Leah. Come join us? We decided to gather here to be the most suitable place, to congratulate our new St. Gabriel's Cancer Research Institute fellow... Michael. You've been awarded St. Gabriel's Congratulations. Excuse me. My office. (group cheering) (tense orchestral music) - I'm sorry. It was not up to me. A good friend of mine, is Like you, he is currently with stem cells. He's an exceptional scientist sponsor your own research. The position doesn't pay much I've already told him about you. He is considering other strong candidates. But if you're willing and relocate immediately, the position is yours. I'm sorry, this is best that I can do. (atmospheric rumbling) (splash) (Leah panting frantically) - Okay. (Leah spits and chokes) - I'm sorry. I'd like to give hypnosis a try. - Just remember, hypnosis Some people are able to reach and other people aren't. So try not to let your mind judge. Just let yourself experience it, and you can analyze everything later. Are you ready? - [Leah] Yes. Go ahead and just close your eyes. And we're going to start Just inhaling, (breathes deeply) and exhaling. That's it, and inhale. And exhale. You don't have to think. You don't have to listen. You don't have to do anything, except allow yourself feeling warm, relaxed, and comfortable. It's now time to begin I want you to go back to your childhood. Back to the time when Whatever comes into your mind is fine. Just let yourself experience it. Five. Four. Three. Two. One. (Leah sighs) (majestic orchestral music) What do you see? (heartbeat) (waves crashing) Where are you? (melancholic chime music) - [Leah] In my room. (children laughing) - [Doctor] What do you see? - [Leah] My parents. I miss them so much, I wish (rumbling) - [Doctor] I want you to go back now. Go back to the time when Can you see them? - No, I can't. I can't see anything. - [Doctor] Go further back in time. What do you see? (grass rustling) Anything that comes to your mind. (clock ticking) (creaking) (clock ticking) - [Voiceover] Ended the German government. Stating that unless we heard from them by 11 o'clock. - [Leah] A living room. (piano melody) - [Doctor] Do you know where you are? - [Leah] It's my house. - [Doctor] Can you see yourself? - [Leah] Yes, but I look different. - [Doctor] Is your name 'Leah'? - [Leah] Elsa. My mother is here, with Daniel. He's going to live with us now. - [Doctor] What else do you see? (orchestral music) - [Leah] Daniel cannot go out. - [Doctor] Why not? - [Leah] He's Jewish. We're playing music so they don't hear us. - [Doctor] Move forward in time. (melancholic ambient music) Where are you now? (wind whistling) - [Doctor] How old are you? - [Leah] 19. Daniel and I, are going to get married. We're going to elope. - [Samuel] I feel like I - [Doctor] What happens next? (storm rumbling) (waves crashing) (splash) (thunder roaring) - [Leah] Oh my God, the water's coming in. There's a storm, the house It's filling very quickly, (panting) we don't know where to go. (water crashing) (creaking and snapping) (melancholic music) (Elsa sobbing) - Everything's gonna be fine. (Elsa sobbing) We will always be together. (rumbling and smashing) (loud crash) (tragic string music) - Daniel! Daniel! (gasping) Daniel! (sobbing) Daniel! (dark ambient music) - [Doctor] Leah, you are no longer drowning. (splash) You are safe now. You no longer need to fear water. - [Leah] Samuel? (elevator humming) Samuel? (clattering) (smashing) Samuel? - [Samuel] I didn't ask you to save me. (panting) - You shouldn't be drinking like this. - No, really? Well, what should I be doin'? Huh? I'm stuck here but, it's not, it's not me! Do you have any idea what that's like? I wish that I could just but this is hell! (panting) You know, you're right. You and I, it's just a coincidence. (somber string music) - You don't remember me, do you? - Please go now. - [Leah] Samuel. - Leave! (typing) - Hey, I need your help. What do you know about genetic memory? - If we were to demonstrate are built in the brain by connections between neurons, and that these connections complex network that can recreate this would be a valid theory. However, the molecules in are replaced every few weeks. Okay, um, okay. Okay, think about, okay? Think about how long lasting stored by such an impermanent medium. - What if your consciousness does not cease to exist when we die? - And where does consciousness I mean, even if we were to memories and that we pass them you would need to be whose life you were regressed to. - Wait, what if instead, someone else who can then from the previous life? - When and how would it enter the new body and how would you even prove that? - Yeah. What I saw... what I remembered... it felt real. - You could have been reacting to environmental stimuli. (ambient string music) Hey. Hey, you know better. Don't add emotion to the science. Yeah. You're right. (chuckles) (spraying water) (Leah panting) - Yes. Yes, I can understand The symptoms that you're experiencing are, are real. It takes a series of specific tests to properly diagnose and treat it. So I'd like to start by having you examined by Who'll help us better determine the, the degree of your injury and uh, and we'll take it from there. (melancholic music) (blowing wind) (door knock) (manager chuckles) - I love you. I always have. You and me... we're meant to be together. I love you. Always have. You and me, we're meant to be together. It wasn't the first time I saw you. It was the first time you looked at me. (calm ambient music) - [Leah] Hey Samuel, it's me, Leah. I was just... I'm leaving. I've been offered a job in Vancouver. - [Voiceover] The mailbox (Samuel sighs) - Hi, we'll be ready for you in 15. - Okay, good. (melancholic ambient music) - Samuel? (wind whistling) (warm ambient music) (Samuel sighs) (storm roaring) (rainfall) (rainfall) (knocking) (knocking) - I remember you. (Leah chuckles) (upbeat orchestral music) (both giggling) (both panting) (Leah chuckles) (Samuel sighs) (melancholic music) I've seen your face Waiting Waiting all along All along All along Can you stay Forever on All along in love Feel me all along Fall into me, right into my My words Every line, every part I am lonely All along