3am. I came to the &quot;Lovely Oozumi Bento Store'' located in Otsumi, Moji Ward, Kitakyushu City. The morning of &quot;Lovely'' begins with a large amount of preparation. Mrs. Iwamura, the owner. Mrs. Iwamura originally worked at a hospital as a nurse. Mrs. Iwamura became the owner of the store in 2023. She inherited the store from her mother, the founder. My mother was sick and the store was closing down, so I thought, "If the store doesn't close, I'll probably do it,'' so I did it and was hooked. JKT) Mrs. Iwamura was a nurse? I was a nurse. I worked as a nurse for about 12 years, and my mother broke her shoulder probably from shaking the pot too much. Age may also be a factor. When I had to quit my job at the shop due to a torn rotator cuff tendon, I suddenly thought, "Maybe I should do that,'' so I started helping out, and it became fun. I started helping out about five years ago. I was replaced in July of last year, so it will soon be about a year since I took over as the owner. I've been eating it since I was little, so recipes stuck in my head. The taste and the customer's feelings. My mother rarely cooked at home, so I grew up eating lunch from here. &quot;Lovely's lunch box&quot; is really cheap. It's been like this since my mother's time, but the eternal theme is how to satisfy everyone's stomach at a low price . That's all I think about when I work. Don't you feel happy when you say, &quot;I'm full?&quot; I think &quot;full&quot; is a very happy word. I think the ganmo was cooked deliciously. *deep-fried tofu with vegetables. There are quite a few ganmo fans as well. I'll keep arranging them here. Preparation is progressing rapidly. Peel the eggs quickly. Mornings at the bento shop are a race against time. Speed is life. JKT) That's fast. I created a method. Self-study. (lol) Once I make a little crack, the rest will peel off naturally. When I asked smoked egg shops how to peel eggs, they told me, ``First, you poke a hole in the eggs and then boil them.'' I thought that they couldn't do that because I was too lazy to do that, so this is what I came up with after that. So, I will proceed with cooking at the same time. This large pot is a big hit in Lovely's kitchen. Since each dish involves a large amount of food, large-capacity pots are often used. Make a lot, quickly and deliciously. Start time: 30 minutes. It's full throttle now. I am making a large amount of stir-fried vegetables. Stir-frying vegetables in a pot is the terrible? (lol), Surprising, isn't it? I think this pot brings out the deliciousness. Lovely offers bento boxes at reasonable prices, and this is due to Mrs. Iwamura's steady efforts. It seems like they are managing to keep costs down by purchasing in large quantities and using items that are in poor shape . Mrs. Iwamura says that the project is made possible by the support of many people, including local farmers sometimes giving them vegetables. Short pasta goes into the pot in the back. Stir-fry the elike and sprinkle with black pepper. People overseas may not be familiar with this dish, but it is a dish that is often found in Japanese bento boxes, and it is a very delicious dish. A large amount of cooking was completed at once. But this is still just a part. Next, let's make curry. Mrs.Iwamura continues to move at this pace. Hmm, what should I do? The menu changes depending on the season and stock, so Mr. Iwamura arranges it accordingly. If there is something a customer would like to eat, we may cater to that request. JKT) Is your experience as a nurse useful? Yes, I'm here to give health advice (lol). In fact, I'm also qualified as a care manager, so I talk about nursing care insurance (lol) Hijiki. It's an essential item for Japanese lunch boxes. Next, stir-fry the chicken. Add a large amount of hijiki to another pot. Add lotus root and mix all at once. The finish looks very delicious. Mix carrots and chicken and it's done. In this pot, I am frying lotus root. This will be stir-fried with sweet and sour sauce. Lunch box ingredients are being completed one after another. Everything looks really delicious. The curry is also ready. Very nice scent. Transfer to a warming pot. This is great because I can serve it while still warm. Looks really delicious... Next, prepare the pork. Season the pork with garlic and soy sauce. I've finally found a frying pan (lol). Up until now I've only used a pot, but I'm able to stir-fry a large amount of pork all at once. The delicious aroma spreads through the kitchen again. Cover and leave for a while. I will make Neapolitan and Yakisoba. This might make it obvious, but my yakisoba is actually pasta. Baked pasta. Stir-fry the pasta with the yakisoba sauce. This is Neapolitan. Some people may be thinking, &quot;Yakisoba with pasta?&quot; But it's actually smooth and difficult to cut, making it a great addition to lunch boxes. Both look very delicious. It's done! It looks very delicious Yakisoba looks very delicious too. Night has dawned. Now it's time to fry. First, let's fry the minced meat cutlet and chicken cutlet. I'm surprised at the size of the chicken cutlet. When this size arrives, I get excited. Please take a look at this size. Fried white fish. The fried horse mackerel also looks good. Looks too delicious~! This is chicken tempura.It's also a huge amount. Dress the fried chicken with sweet and sour sauce. Very nice scent. It will be completed more and more. Fried food continues. This is chikuwa tempura. &quot;Would you like to have one freshly fried?&quot; JKT) Thank you for cooking. It's super hot. The crispy batter and fluffy chikuwa texture were the best! Fried chicken. It's huge. My fried chicken. This fried chicken is chewy and satisfying to eat. It's a pleasant morning outside. Mrs. Iwamura's husband and child came. He comes to the store at this time every morning. Kie-chan still looks a little sleepy. *chan is an endearing female suffix. She is in a bad mood today (lol). She gets ready at the store and goes to kindergarten. The rice is ready. My daughter eats it first. Onigiri made with freshly cooked rice. This is her favorite food. Mrs. Iwamura continues to prepare. She only have a little time with her family in the morning. here are you are. JKT) Thank you! JKT) Thank you very much. Fried chicken is crispy and delicious! This was also great. She was in a good mood after eating the rice ball. Delicious food makes people smile. JKT) Good morning Kie-chan! JKT) Good morning. good morning.... She is already in a good mood. Yes, it's delicious! For her, this is a place where she can spend time with her mother. This time is also very important. I come every day. Sometimes I eats here, sometimes I comes home to eat, and I bring her every day. JKT)Are you going to take the kindergarten bus from here? Yes, the bus will come here, so I'll drop her off here, and then the bus will pick her up. I'm already used to it (lol). I'll get my own lunch. It's a beloved wife bento. It's a love-wife bento! I'm the one making it! It seems that the husband comes to the store every day before going to work. Choose what he like in a buffet style. JKT) Nice! he'll be happy. Mrs.Iwamura's mother also came to the store. It seems that her mother always comes at this time as well. From here, they will start making bento boxes. Work by the founder and the second generation mother-daughter duo. The bento will be made at a good pace. Her mother retired from Lovely, but she is currently running a new rice ball shop. I runs a rice ball shop , in Yoshishi, Kitakyushu City. I go there at 8 o'clock. Until then, I come and see her every morning. Yakisoba and Neapolitan are completed. He is heading to work. Seeing everyone off. Mom is also heading to the rice ball shop. JKT) Morning family time. I'm not home most of the time, so we have a system where everyone comes over. I'm causing a lot of trouble for my husband. I go to bed really early, so I have to go to bed around 8:30 pm or so. I have to go to bed by at least 9 o'clock. When that happens, my husband does everything from putting me to bed and waking me up, so I can't continue running the shop without him. 7:30 Preparations continue. Kie-chan has a relaxing time. JKT) It has dignity (lol). JKT) The way I sit is different (lol). JKT) Very nice. JKT)She definitely watch the stock price.haha Kie! Time to change clothes! come. She is also getting ready for the morning. It's time to see off her. At this time, she will receive a phone call to inquire about her reservation. Thank you for calling. It's lovely. Reservation calls keep coming in. Mrs. Iwamura's mornings are quite busy. The kindergarten bus will arrive soon. There's only a little more time left with Kie-chan. a! Smile! Kie. what? Do you see azaleas? come. It's beautiful, Azalea. It's a precious time that comes just a little bit in the morning. The bus has arrived to pick her up. good morning! Kie-chan looks lonely. I'm going! Have a good day. She is in a good mood (lol) and She starts making lunch boxes again. Various types of bento boxes will be completed. Minced meat cutlet and fried chicken. Fried white fish and fried chicken. Chicken cutlet and fried chicken. The charm of bento boxes lies in their quantity. Quite a hearty bento. JKT) That's a huge amount! This is not much, but it's normal. JKT) Is this normal size? The large portion is even more.. intense. JKT) Intense? lol The extra large size is about the size of a small hand-held safe. Isn't that the handy type? That level (lol). A nice price of 600 yen for this volume. Due to the recent rise in prices, she had to change the price, but it is surprising that until recently it was being offered for 550 yen. good morning! The staff came to work. They will further speed up the opening. In parallel with finishing, preparation continues. The lunch box was completed in one go. This is from another store and will be delivered soon. Lovely has opened multiple stores since Mrs. Iwamura took over the store. Many fans are now able to enjoy the taste. The bento boxes at the main store are also made in a hurry. It's almost opening time. The shutter of the shop has opened. 9:00 AM After 6 hours of preparation, they finally opened the store. The weather is nice today, and they expect many customers to visit their store. Customers will be arriving one after another soon. The kitchen is very busy. Mrs. Iwamura also continues to move nonstop. The lunch boxes are ready for delivery. She will head to the Lovely for delivery. After opening, customers will continue to visit the store. thank you! One large serving of fried chicken and one large serving of special variety. It's a beautiful day today. work? I have a day off today. thank you. Thank you! be careful! good morning! Which one do you want? What is on the menu today? Anything goes! Everything's fine. Chicken Nanban! Large serving? OK! Let's do our best at work. Sorry I made you wait. thank you! Be careful! Take care! Customers waiting for white meat hamburgers! thank you! thank you very much! Many long-distance drivers come to the Lovely main store. Most of the people were smiling and saying, &quot;It's huge!&quot; The lid won't close (lol) and everyone goes home with a very satisfied look on their faces. She keep getting calls for reservations. got it. We'll be waiting for you at 11 o'clock! This is a lunch box to be delivered to a customer. All of them are full of volume and I can see the smiles on the faces of their customers. This is a large portion. What a huge deal! If you eat this, you will definitely feel energized to the max. Preparations for lunch boxes for delivery are almost complete. Even so, it's a huge amount. The white Lovely is also taking off. It's now 10:20. Mrs. Iwamura headed to another store. This is the ``Lovely Sakaemachi branch of bento'' located in Sakaemachi, Moji Ward, Kitakyushu City. The store manager is Ayako, who Iwamura trusts deeply. The Sakaemachi store is located near the station, and the customer base seems to be different. Mrs. Iwamura has acquaintances all over the city. After completing the inspection, she returned to the main store. When I went to various places on the Lovely, people would usually find out and say things like ``There was the supermarket &quot;trail&quot;, right?'' or ``drug store &quot;Thank you&quot; , right?'' and the location would be immediately identified. haha JKT) You said that you worked with your mother, right? Yes, all the time. I had been replaced since July of last year, so I was really nervous, but the customers were so kind, they all told me, ``It's okay, it's okay! I can do it!'' and supported me. I made a lot of mistakes, but the customers helped me a lot, and I think that's why I'm able to do my best. This time, we took a closer look at &quot;Lovely Bento&quot;. A lunch box filled with love that will fill your stomach and heart. The energetic Mrs. Iwamura and the staff who work with her. The smile that starts with Lovely continues to spread. Mrs.Iwamura still thinks every day, ``I'm glad I didn't lose the Lovely that my mother made.'' However, when she took over the store, she faced many struggles. Up until now, my mother had run one shop in Ozumi, and although it was very good, it was small and I thought it was a waste, so I opened it. I opened a store, bought a kitchen truck, and opened it outside. That's starting to be evaluated, and every day when I see that evaluation, I feel, ``I'm glad I did this,'' or ``I'm glad that people understand me.'' Mrs. Iwamura made Lovely bigger through his management efforts. However, there were also various conflicts. As I worked with my mother, there were times when I felt like starting something new, but we would bump into each other over small things, and it was tough. There were many times when I was confused and worried, but the customers always gave me the answers. If I do this every day, I will see the reactions of the regular customers who come every day. I'm happy when people say things like, ``It was really delicious,'' or ``I want to try that next time,'' or ``Please make me that.'' I think I find it rewarding because there are times when I can see my own growth in the customers' words , such as how I've created an environment where they can say that to me , and how I've become a better person. Mrs. Iwamura, please continue to bring energy to many people with your smile Photo cooperation: Bento no Lovely