- This video is brought Chuck, you wanna live on Mars? - Yes! - But you can't breathe the air. - No! (Neil laughing) (upbeat techno music) - All right, so we have two options. - [Chuck] Okay. - If we're all gonna move either we build a bio-dome habitat. - [Chuck] Okay. - [Neil] That's basically Earth on Mars. - I kinda like that idea. - Okay, but then you can't just wander. It's not your planet. The bio-dome is kind of like a global spacesuit for everybody. For me, it would be - It'd be like &quot;The Truman Show&quot; on Mars. You can only go to a certain limit. - And then, that's it. (laughs) So, another option would - Okay. - One of my favorite words. (Neil laughing) Terraform, get your ass to Mars! (Neil laughing) Stop hoarding all the oxygen! (both laughing) - So, here's the thing, the-- - Terraforming Mars! - Which is? - Here's why everyone's talking You ever wonder why? Okay, here's why. - 'Cause men are from Mars? - Venus is 900 degrees Fahrenheit. Runaway greenhouse effect. And I did the calculation. You could put a pizza on the windowsill, it'll cook in nine seconds. - That bad, I like it. Mars rotates once about every 24 hours. Did you know that? - And it's tipped on its axis. - Kinda like what we are. It has polar ice caps. - So do we. And, on its surface, that it once had running water, a meandering river bed, bone dry today. - Hey, we're headed there, too! (Neil laughing) - It's just, so, Mars's just So, there's no water there where do you think the water went? - Underground? - Well, we don't really know. - Okay. - Oh, thank god. I was just guessing, wildly. - No, no, if it went And Mars is very cold, and so we think it's like a permafrost. - Permafrost, right. - Permanently frozen down there. All right, so what you wanna do is, you wanna warm the planet. Get the water back on the surface, okay? And there's not much atmosphere there, it's mostly carbon dioxide, Greenhouse But it's only 1% the So even though it's almost entirely CO2, it's not thick enough to trap the heat coming from the Martian surface, - There ya go. - Right. Sunlight comes in, which - Correct. and it re-radiates in infrared, by greenhouse gases. - But with no atmosphere, - then what would happen? - there's nothing going on, so it's cold. So, everybody's wondering, - [Chuck] All right. - Can we release some of this CO2 that's frozen on the poles? Can we get the water back out? Do you know, the water molecule - That's right. - Did you know that? the most prevalent greenhouse gas. - [Neil] In our atmosphere, correct. There's more water vapor - [Chuck] Anything else, right. - If you get all the CO2 that we have found in the polar ice caps, because it's like dry ice there. 'Cause dry ice on Earth is CO2, okay? So you get all that evaporated, then get all the water, evaporate that, it's still not enough in the greenhouse trapping of Mars. - Oh, wow! - So, if we wanna warm the - B-Y-O-G-H-G? - Yes. (laughs) - Bring your own greenhouse gas? - B-Y-O-G-H-G. - You think we could do that, all right. - I mean, methane, we could bring-- - Methane, Methane's - We could bring some methane. - Well, it's just eat a lot of chili. (Neil laughing) Meat and beans to methane! (Neil laughing) I believe that's the molecular (Neil laughing) - In a chemistry book, - So bring everybody - That's it, chili bowl. Everybody gets a bowl of chili! Welcome to Mars, here's - Help out the, (laughs) - There you go. Help out the ecology. Here's your bowl of chili. (both laughing) - But farm animals also give off methane. You get that from, 'cause which is the fibers in plant life. So, cows, multiple stomach - All kinds of-- - All orifices are giving off the methane. - Right. - [Chuck] I did not know that. - Big source of methane - That's what I tell my wife all the time, I'm just like, we have termites. (Neil laughing) That wasn't me. That wasn't me. - We can't blame the dog? - We don't have a dog so I (Neil laughing) - But, so the problem is, on-planet carbon dioxide and So you have to bring your own or find some other way to heat the planet. And, Elon Musk has a plan. - Uh-oh! - Okay, so he's thinking of that have big reflectors that would otherwise miss the planet. - Right. - Focus it down on the planet to the planet, heating it you might be able to set sort of a - Chain reaction? If everything is frozen you'll evaporate more carbon dioxide and that'll help trap more heat, and then that'll make it harder to evaporate even more carbon dioxide. You get all of that out of the system and into the atmosphere. Then now it's warm enough, now you're still mostly greenhouse gases, you still need oxygen to breathe. - Right. - So now you put microorganisms and they release oxygen. - Like, plants do that, but on Earth, there's something called cyanobacteria. - [Chuck] Right. - They changed the ecology of the Earth more than anything else that has ever happened, including humans. - Wow. - We had a mostly the cyanobacteria said - This sounds good. and out comes oxygen, they - Oxygen rich atmosphere. - Right. - Wow, and then everything else - Based off of that. Everything else we know and love, right? - Here's the question - How long does this take? (both laughing) - So I don't, that's the big problem. Is it a thousand years? Is it a million years? Or, can you (snapping) fast acting microbes? This remains to be established. - [Chuck] Cool. - But, I'm telling you that if we're gonna be a two you gotta terraform - Nice, and is Mars, the best planet of all the planets to Terraform? - I'm not burning my ass on Venus, A. - Okay. - B, I'm not going to Mercury, - That's true. - 'Cause it's three inches - [Chuck] Okay. - Okay. Maybe, there could be - [Chuck] Like moons of Jupiter? - [Neil] Moons of Jupiter and Saturn. - [Chuck] Okay. - [Neil] Titan has an atmosphere Okay, you might be able to terraform that, if we have the right formulas and recipes, but we're not really there yet. - Not even there yet. - It's way in the future. - So Mars is the closet thing to us, with the best possible results. - Correct and it's nearby and it's got, as close as I think, to pull off this experiment. So, yeah. - And has it occurred we should just take care of this planet? (Neil laughing) - No, here's the thing. The day we have the turn Mars into Earth, we'll have the power to turn Earth into Earth. - Oh, that is awesome! - See what I'm saying there? If we could terraform Mars-- - 'Cause people saying oh move there, because we've - It means that we're able to geo-engineer our own we could live! - Turn earth back into earth. - It's not a bad answer, but here's another problem. Escape plan, we need a place to go because we'll get hit by a giant asteroid that destroys-- - So you wanna become - Right! - In case there's a risk of-- - [Chuck] Catastrophic collision - [Neil] Okay, so what you're saying is, we ship a billion people and then one of 'em goes - You know, I kinda like that. (Neil laughing) I'm just saying, that's kinda cool. If I'm on Mars and Earth gets hit with an asteroid, I am so cool with that! (both laughing) - So here's the thing. - Go ahead. - I don't know if it's just me, - Right. - Whatever it takes to terraform Mars-- - Right. - From advanced geo-engineering. - Yes. - It seems to me that by then, we can just bat asteroids It seems to me we'll be a perfect anti-virus serum so that there's no killer It seems to me, we have the power to protect either planet from anything that could render us extinct. - Something's telling me you - I like me some Earth. (both laughing) Earth is good. So Chuck, we done here? - Oh, we're done. (mimicking exploding) So let's say you just wanted to get some video footage of Mars, you would have to build a space ship, commission NASA to do your have a special camera, take who do you think you are, NASA? Or you could do what we did, that's how we got access and this and this. We got them all from Storyblocks. Storyblocks video has video and images and audio and templates Mars stuff, boom. Scary stuff, boom. Clowns. (Neil laughing) - [Neil] Scary clowns. - Yes, yes unfortunately, even that. Some of the video in this so head to storyblocks.com/StarTalk Check out their unlimited plan for all the royalty free Check out the link in and learn more about Storyblocks video! - And as always, I bid (upbeat techno music)