Today, Somewhere On Earth invites you An isolated territory These sacred lands Marcelino is an elder, an Omi Grande, the highest position The forest, which he knows so well, for his ancestral remedies. Marcelino is a traditional doctor in the northern Bijagos. The island of Orango in the far south and the country's first national park. This is where Pedro lives. He's the reporter for Okinka Pampa, so he's always on the lookout for stories. On the island of Caravela, Quintino is about to undergo The Fanado, the highest initiation rite, which will open Over the centuries, a very close relationship with nature. I don't know what's going to happen to me and able to do what they want me to. That's why I'm anxious. The Bijagos Islands isolated from the rest of the world. Just a few miles from the mainland, and mangrove swamps, These islands are inhabited by spirits. They form a mythical boundary the ocean, and the endless sky. Islands tossed into the sea There are 88 of them spread out north to south. It is the only archipelago formed thousands of years ago The early Portuguese navigators inhabited by indomitable warriors. The Bijagos people The villages are all inland, as if the inhabitants from unknown outside forces. For centuries, this isolation has allowed Hello there. How's the family? How are you? Marcelino is a traditional healer a village on the island of Carache. He learned the traditional medicine and began to treat people A few years ago, Marcelino of modern Western medicine How's the baby? [Bijago spoken audio] Thanks to the children, I became a healer. I've liked children It's still the case. What I do, I do for them. I instruct the mothers I teach them The moms trust me, whether it's traditional Wherever I go, I look after the children because I see the results of my work. [Bijago spoken audio] Does he suckle well? Yes, he does. He has a fever? Yes, at night. [Bijago spoken audio] We're doing our best for the children so that they'll have This is what we're teaching them. When they're seven, to say hello to people, The children here learn by example. You learn by watching grown-ups. If I ever see children I stop and scold them. I'll give them some guidance because they know that I'll be A child is not just his parent's child. He's also the child That's why we treat them all the same. We take care of all the children. When I see a newborn baby, Marcelino, who's close to 60 years old, an Omi Grande. The younger generations and demands of their elders. This is the principle of payment who are the ones [Bijago spoken audio] There are not many schools here More often than not, Marcelino has to turn to Mother Nature The Bijago elders and guardians of the community's secrets. In order to keep the traditions alive, Marcelino passes on his knowledge [Bijago spoken audio]. The palm tree plays We use the trunk to build our houses. We make palm wine with the sap. When the nuts ripen, we can make oil. We use the fronds to make string. These are the palm fronds and the ropes We also make soap from the blossom. Every part of the tree is good. We can use everything in the palm tree. Plant lore and traditional medicine The forest If you're not a doctor, you're not allowed We don't transmit the mysteries If you don't live here on this land, Before cutting a root, I ask it to help me cure the sick person. You can't just come into the forest, then turn around and leave. [Bijago spoken audio]. Marcelino has to take care Before undertaking a voyage, so that he'll ensure a smooth journey and watch over his family [Bijago spoken audio]. He got hurt while playing. They brought him to me four days ago. I took care of him He tells me he's feeling better. This is what I use to treat him. It looks like he's doing better. I treat stomach aches, indigestion, cuts, bruises, headaches, and snakebites. I take care of all of that. Yes, even snakebites. Nature jealously guards her secrets. There are a number They are the realm of Iran, Tradition is the bond of the Bijagos people, This land beneath its vast sky Marcelino is wise in his people's law. The Bijago draw their force and energy The first thing my father taught me how to study the water. If it's windy, the sea gets stirred up However, if the water is clear, you can see the fish If you can't reach the fish with your net, You stalk them. It's a very long apprenticeship. We, here in the Bijagos, We are poor, but our land is generous. It is our riches. Bijagos are very remote. We're a free people. Not many people can say that, We have enough to eat here. We are as pure as the clear seawater. That's the Bijagos. That's our riches. This is an old tree, The tree and I are two wise old men. It's the biggest tree in the Bijagos Yes, that's how it is. Orango, the largest island of the Bijagos, is a land of savannas There are very few villages, Everyone on Orango knows Pedro, always ready to help out the community Pedro's life changed 20 years ago, the day he received his tractor His brother, managed to dig up I transport all sorts of things. Soil and bunches of palm fruit too. However, not only that, anything that's heavy. I do it to help the community. Anything people need, I'll carry it. I even transport people. It's really kind of a museum piece. I have to start it with a rope. The villagers on Bubaque and Uno, the neighboring islands, However, I don't want to take I'm here to help the community of Orango because there's no other I like helping people because I think As I have the means, I do it. It's good to help people in need Someday, A few months ago, an incredible project a community radio station. Pedro is one of the volunteer reporters That wraps up the news. Good night to all. We hope you join us when we come back The radio station creates a bond The single daily program deals mainly and the environment. In just a few months, and thanks to his work he has been discovering Orango is a labyrinth vast sea inlets This morning, a ranger of the Orango National Park. They're headed for the southern tip very difficult to reach. There, they hope to find Thanks to which the Bijagos We have a large biodiversity here. There are a lot of animals. Most of them are very dangerous. There are horn vipers, Walking around here can be fatal by a horned viper, It's really dangerous. In short, there's biodiversity. I love animals. Then again, I don't have a choice. I have to deal with them. Nature is dangerous, but I protect it. This park is home Over thousands of years, and these hippopotamus and become acclimated to seawater, where they take refuge Do you know how many hippos It's hard to say exactly. Some are still in the mangrove swamps. Others head for the rivers of Orangozinho. However, in the lagoon here, Tell me, Joao, between the male and the female? It's easy to tell. The male is always bigger. His head is bigger, and his maw is longer The female has a flat back. Hippos have a lovely place in our lore. It's a sacred animal, Here they say that a brave person If they say a person that means he's a great person, When he dies, The Bijago people have always held even before they founded This morning, the little port of Orango Once a week Pedro carries on and is off to Poilao, It's a very isolated island. There's no drinking water All the products come from here, from Bissau or from Bubaque, We mustn't forget [Bijago spoken audio] Poilao is a sacred island. The Bijago people It's quite sacred for all of us. It's a magnificent island This is the first time Santino is one of the guardians. What's that tower? That tower dates back On the tip of the island, from the time when Poilao was For a long time, of the Portuguese colonial forces. It is the furthest point Lapped by the waves of the Atlantic Ocean, The island is home of green turtles in the Atlantic Ocean. Fore months of the year, straight out of another age, where they were born, to lay their eggs. Is it easy to live What does it feel like Well, it's like that here. You can't get away whenever you want to. You're stuck. I'm not here by chance When I'm in Poilao, it's to work. My job is to protect our riches, The rangers on Poilao do good work. Not only for Guinea-Bissau, I know there are endangered species, begins to think about protecting I feel good here. I would like When I see the effort she has to put out It's tiring for her. If I could, It's so hard It's a beautiful animal, Turtles are not aggressive. They don't attack. They don't bother anyone and that's why It's really a lovely animal. The deserted beach of the fascinating At dawn, Pedro is witness of this wild land In the north, the island of Caravela Quintino is a kabado. In traditional society, Soon, he'll undergo in the social hierarchy. Quintino, 30 years old now, He's preparing for the final This ritual takes place in the forest, based on suffering, This much-feared ordeal Once he has passed the Fanado, a respected man, and protecting his family. Quintino has four children. Soon, he'll have to leave them in the sacred forest. The Fanado is a long voyage A woman is very important because if you have no wife, However, if you have a wife, This is my wife, Saffie. We've been married for a long time. I love her very much. I work for her. I go fishing, I go into the forest, Sometimes I go off for longer periods and I bring home what we need. We both love each other very much. We get along well and when I go off I miss her and she misses me. We're sad and that's why we enjoy The Fanado is approaching, Quintino has to take care The Bijago have always led Very few products Each family has its own rice field, and there's only one rice harvest In a few days, the rice will be ripe. It's a very tricky moment for Quintino. He could lose his whole crop if he doesn't keep a close watch For the palm trees just waiting to swoop down for a feast. Right from the age of seven, the children It's the staple food of the Bijago. We come out every day. We get up at 6:00 in the morning and the next day we do it again. That's how it goes every day like this rice right here. The Bijago people are not seafarers, There's a legend the men would rig out One day the Europeans in reprisal, and the Bijago people who had come to seek revenge. Now, the only arms made here We make the Kanyago It's the traditional tool We make it with what we get The elders show us how to make a Kanyago. It's the first thing they teach you It's indispensable When you know how to use the Kanyago, You have what you need to work. You can have your own house and all that. It's a gift of nature. The waters are full of fish here. All sorts of fish. Nature is generous. There are sharks, stingrays, Sea bream, barracuda. However, the fish If you get stung, it's very painful Enormous clouds drift over the Atlantic. They come from a spot the horse latitudes It's still the rainy season, A tornado can arise in just a few seconds. I don't like thunder and storms, We have to live with nature. I would rather go home, but if I go home, I don't have a choice. In this part of the world, the heat rises up out of the earth A storm always brings a bit of coolness. It's a good time to head for the beach. Quintino's wife Saffie has come to gather The women are just as active I grew up observing my elders. Now with Quintino, and I can't let them go hungry and cry. We grow rice I know that in other parts of the world, However, I'm happy with the life I lead. It allows me to take care of my children [Bijago spoken audio] Preparations are underway The village elders have chosen the date It will last three months. I'm afraid because what they want me to do, Today, Quintino is wearing Chief of the village of Anipoc. These sacred objects have been handed down His time has come. Right from his early childhood, he has been passing This is the last rite of passage. That's why I gave him this costume. He's on the path of the Fanado. It's a natural event We've all been through it. This costume When you put it on, It's like these horns When you're wearing them, It's as if some force enters you. You become strong and wild, Now I'm ready. I'll be going into the Fanado House. It's forbidden to talk It's really secret. Only the initiates Even I don't know yet. This is a great day. I'm fulfilling our tradition, The elders, the women, when we were wearing the costume, Quintino will come out He will soon pass a major turning point These people living on the fringes