Sherlock: Feral left. Weaken right jaw. That elbow coming in is very weak. You can't elbow like this. Your elbow have to be locked. Body in line, whole body turn, lock. So that way you can control it more. Whole body movement. My name is Master Wong. I've been training on Wing Chun and I trained in beginning in UK, and then I trained in China as well. Today, I will look at some and see how real they are. That's a good move. That definitely knocks somebody out. Now, on to the Wing Chun side, you punch like this, So you can punch like this, or you can punch straight like this. But that one there, you see him using more traditional kung fu. So stand up and turn at that punch, create a lot of power. Wing Chun is specifically It's a very close-quarter-combat use. This movement here is a very Wing Chun using that as well, upper elbow. But this one here, you see attacking the solar plexus. This one is perfect to be used. You see a lot of this Elbow using for close quarter, because a lot of time elbow's The most strongest structure in the body is elbow, head, knee. This is the heavy movement there that you got to be able to defend thing. A lot of time when you're doing Wing Chun, you do fight three or four people. Move hand here, fast hand here. Like Bruce Lee when you see them. Is it Wing Chun? It's the element of it. The element, you are But for me to use it, I, instead of hitting, we're using a chop to the throat, because in real life, that If you're using Wing Chun he wouldn't be jumping around a lot. So everything is wider. You know, when it traditional, body wider, movement wider. So it's more for power use. Wing Chun more closer. Like, you see they don't move very much, just stay in a area. So on the bus here, in a Wing Chun size, that's what Wing Chun designed for. It designed for close-quarter combat. So mixture. Little bit of Wing Chun, a lot of them is traditional martial art. For realism, I think I give them 5. Because you can't use it like that, the way he use it on Donnie Yen playing this Yip Man is a real person. Teaching Bruce Lee. Bruce Lee's master. If 10 karate guy up one Wing Chun guy, I think 10 karate person eat Chews them up and spit them out. Karate people train very different. Karate using long distance. Kicking, punching long range. Wing Chun use close range. When you get inside the karate person cannot use a weapon. It been limit down. But if they in the range, the karate person can use a long range, like leg kicking, to In Wing Chun side, you don't really do a lot of high kick up above the waist. But in this scenario, he You use it if your leg is good enough. Not all the time you need but in combat like this, it's good to kick below As you can see, some of the grab, control, then kick, They try to break the person's That's what Wing Chun Why does he come down? He controls them a little bit more closer where he is to attack, because he don't want They sit there watching him instead. Why them people standing If I'm in real life, my I don't stand there, &quot;Hold No. I won't give him a chance to elbow my friend to the back. But this is a movie. Classic Wing Chun. Grab them, control them, Soon as shield them, somebody come along, you move them other side. You move them where you want them. And then you can deal That kind of 1,000 while for you to keep bombarding him, it's good for movie. Reality terms, no. Chasing after him, you While we doing this kind of movement, your body not grounded enough, You're not standing up. You're moving forward. All he need to do, the karate guy, kick up at his butt, and he fall over. It have to be grounded and controlled, because when you're high, they're low. When they're low, they got more strength. Now, sometimes you ask yourself do 1,000 punch somebody's face, is it overdoing it? Yes, it's overdoing it. I think the biggest myth movies show about Wing Chun on the fighting side, they portray that Wing Chun need to do 1,000 different moves In real life, should be one hit, one kill. For the movie side, it's good. In real life, it not that great. So I'd just say around about 7 out of 10. Classic Wing Chun movement on there. It's like ready to fight, you know? In Wing Chun side, you need to understand there are the yin and the yang. Hard and soft. You need When your opponent's because then you are able to defend them. So the attack coming in hard, you need to be soft to deflect them. That's a very classic Wing So you got choice when you're working this If they're friend, you control them. If they're foe, you just squeeze. Broken wind pipe, finished. And if you're in a fight and the best thing to do is drop your chin, like this, because you That will be attacking the joint. Then it lose. Then from there, using your body, you get rid of the hand, and then you continue your attack. Who's got the upper hand now? See, he done there? All he done there, because where you squeeze, you're And then because you have no energy, they can't break out, Because he's a god, he can How he get out of this movement there? So, in the Wing Chun side, you see a lot of movement like this. Flick your muscle, flick your wing, so he can't grab over you. If I flick like this, my and I will grab hold of his hand. I will give him few elbow to the face, few elbow to his body, and I'll give him a So on this one here, I like In reality terms, some of and some you can't use. I will give this movie here about 4. Sherlock: First, distract target. Then block his blind jab. I like this kind of movie, because all the time Using your mind to thought because mind tell your body what to do. Sherlock: Counter with Attacking at the temple is a very good, classic Wing Chun straight But attacking temple, to be able to hit because it's small. If he move like this, it miss. Really attacking right along Sherlock: Discombobulate. Attacking into the ear hole. Classic. Make you [makes dizzy sound]. So that's why he do this way. Boom! So he can't hear anything anymore. For me to use this movement, I would, boom! Straight chop to the neck, cutting the blood supply to your brain. You're out, finished. Sherlock: Wild haymaker. The way he do it, it look weaker, because you don't see But you're using your body. That's called a tan sao. You're moving to using that, While you're diverting the movement with the hand out of the way, your body structure diverting the force. So the heavy coming in, you You go like this, that Sherlock: And body shot. Move like this, straight Wing Chun using that, yes, but you don't move the way they move, more like classic boxing. The Wing Chun more like and come up using chum kiu. That's for the second the chum kiu, using a lot of punching. You attack a lot of organ, rib cage, here, throat area. So that's a very classic movement. Sherlock: Feral left. That movement there, the hand coming in, little bit weak. If you are up like this, if it drop, that will Yes, that might land to your elbow, but you got to make sure the wing block. The block on the hand need to be able to cover your otherwise, Sherlock Holmes Sherlock: Weaken right jaw. That elbow coming in is very weak. You can't elbow like this. This won't get any power. Doesn't matter how good you are. Your elbow have to be locked. Body in line, whole body turn, lock. So that way you can control it more. Whole body movement. Sherlock: Heel kick to diaphragm. This part here, heel kick coming in, classic Wing Chun. They're using the heel because the idea is long solid. Like the punch, solid. For me to use this kind of I wouldn't want to use any heel kick. You have to be able to move right into reach to kick the heel kick, because your whole leg got to be able to kick like that. It's hard to use. Reality, it's the point kick coming in. Directly, your toe onto the solar plexus, that will do the same damage, even worse. For Robert Downey Jr., he's been training on Is he able to execute the moment well? Now, if I say not good, and if I say good, then I lie to myself. I say average. Out of 10, I think I'll give this about 4. Now, this is very, very classic Wing Chun. You see Michelle Yeoh. Compared to Hollywood stuff, You don't see she move a lot. So the classic Wing Chun is you don't move around a lot. You're using your hand, defending your vision of 300 degree. So, this whole thing here, as a fun thing, as he moving, they don't want And why is it talking about bean curd? Bean curd is very soft. That show how elegant the Wing Chun is. Because this is about a woman. That's why she called Wing Chun. Yim Wing Chun, she developed It doesn't matter how strong you are. She can use her relaxed and movement to defend the big and strong opponent. This is very classic there, elbow. And all this movement here, this go into wooden dummy. When you're watching a wooden dummy, you're using a lot of this hand here, elbow coming in, arm, turn, all this elbow stuff is all attack. So the body attack, elbow, elbow, elbow, attacking, elbow defending all this. Michelle Yeoh is very good at I will give this one 8 out of 10. This movement here you Now, this is 6 1/2-point-pole One of the two weapon that Wing Chun use. This is what the Wing Chun people use. Instead of training on weight a lot, they're using that to train. They hold it like that because move, like whipping, twisting, attacking, flicking. There are only 6 1/2 movements on this. And they mix them up together with the hand form and the footwork. So the finger, the power onto the pole. Is it really necessary, two person using the same thing? Now, reality term is two more likely both of them get cut up. This is the traditional Wing Chun side. Butterfly knife and sword. That's why Wing Chun use When the enemy have short weapon, you're using long weapon. A lot of the movement there, as you see the Wing Chun movement, using hand movement, they transfer them into the weapon. But onto the weapon for this to be used, you're getting the idea of And then now you got a weapon attached to your body here, so you can able to move well to using it. OK, stop that there. That's part of, like, called a butterfly knife chi sao. Instead of using hand, they're using a knife instead. Controlling the force See, the classic, what I told you about, in Wing Chun side, hard and soft. You're using to moving your energy from your opponent there. When it get close, the use the elbow. And then they use a knife because you're going to need a distance to be able to use it. When they're closing up, that's when they use elbow, head, knee, and also using shoulder a lot as well. They're using the classic Idea is, when you punch but when you bam, bam, bam, bam, they can't block like this. So more than likely, if I do 20 punch, they will land on your face once. What you're going to use to block it, using either wing block or using pak sao to block of this chain punch. Classic biu jee. Biu jee, finger strike. Attacking the eye, attacking the throat, attacking a vulnerable spot. Emergency use. When you get to this level of biu jee, you have become very So got to be very careful Instead of see, he feel now. Bruce Lee use a lot of 1-inch punch. Like that, boom, boom, boom! When you attack, you feel them first, then follow up onto second, But when you punch them Next movement, you hit When they start to, ah! Then you're forcing the energy past it. That's how you knock them out. Overall, for choreography, very, very good. The ways they do them, they showcase very truthfully how you use it on the scene. I give them about 8 to 9 out of 10. This is all Wing Chun movement, the movement on there that he coming in. Attacking, defending. But is it Wing Chun movement here? Is it more traditional side? No, more Wing Chun there start to fit into him going Jeet Kune Do. That's why he use a lot of high kick. What Bruce Lee believing in, what you take is useful; So he discard a lot of traditional stuff that no functional to him. That's another classic one. This is the chum kiu Boom, arm break, coming in arm break. So that's what it is. Soon coming in hand breaking the arm, sidekick of the Wing to hurting the joint Very classic, yeah. What he trying to demonstrate there, is in the Wing Chun side, We don't need space, but what Chuck Norris need, space, because he use a lot of kick. Bruce Lee, he don't need space. Now when he get close, he don't use any of the high kick now. He using low kick. I have to give this 10 out This is more like Kali, Kali movement than more like Wing Chun. But Wing Chun do that as well. You're using this to drill. This kind of drill is helping When you put that knife on the person, you see how much power how you respond. Joe: Again. People need to understand, You need 1,000 repetition You need to drill that into your system. When something happen in real life, fight, you can't think. You either feel or see before it happen. So the whole idea of learning this is to learn about feel, learn about see, where where you put your hand, because all the knife Joe: Good. This one here is not really attack. This is really like drill. When somebody put a knife at you, two thing you need to realize. If you're in a situation you have to make sure Make sure there's something you can use to be able to defend that quickly. Think fast, and looking to get out of the way. Don't stay in front of that, Know yourself, know your enemy, know your ability, and I would probably give them a 5 out of 10. I like Nicolas Cage doing the movie. Pretty serious, good actor. My favorite Wing Chun movie of all time is &quot;The Prodigal Son.&quot; They talk a lot into the where they come from. Yuen Biao doing the movement, apply them into the screen, and making a screen for the way it done. And Sammo Hung, when he using it, he using Wing Chun in the realistic life. Head, elbow, everything. All the power the body can to make the Wing Chun functional for him. Thank you for watching. If you enjoyed this movie