Did you kind of hang out, before hand to get to know each other... or did you not do that? To kind of get that little intenseness and awkwardmess going on Uh, no we hung out before we started filming the movie for a couple of weeks yeah, we had some down time before we started filming which was nice to get acclimated to a new place and get to know you know, the other person that you are working with we had a lot of fun but we were still able to pull off awkwardness yeah we kind of always do that...we're pretty good at that *laughter* but it was so awkward that it kind of felt like i think we have all been in that situation i am awkward as hell *laughter* a lot of the time oh yeah if you have a crush and a first love, it's uh the first time you meet and especially if you have been talking you know via text or email uh it's nerve wracking yeah it's like when you meet up with a tinder date after texting for awhile i have actually never done that, but I'm assuming that's what it's like I think so probably right... and it's kind of weird, I was just going to ask you because now cause of social media, and the way we meet today we meet through technology, before we meet face to face is that something... cause when I grew up we didn't have any of that so it's kind of different now being young today what is your relationship with that whole kind of way that things are? it's very interesting... I think... I think... I think phones give us the ability to distort our images and the images of others in our heads very easily too cause your imagination can fill in the details that you aren't receiving through text message or through social media um.... and so I i think it was interesting to see that play out in the film because you see these characters kind of dreaming of each other until they finally meet and they are faced with the awkwardness of actual human interaction and they are confronted with the real and I think um... I think that it is really fascinating I try to like, kind of limit my usage of social media in that way just because I think they can give us very distorted ideas of people yeah i think that it goes to show sort of the limits of that kind of communication after a while they, they feel like they need to meet in person and they actually put their sort of imagination, their version of the other person into context and it's nerve wracking is it always like that? it's never like that so do you guys believe in love at first sight? I do I do believe in love at first sight I think with Maddy and Olly it was, curiosity at first sight I think they didn't know exactly what to expect Olly was moving into a new neighbourhood and there was this girl that never left her house he thought maybe that she was pregnant he had all kinds of theories a lot of theories i think the character even says i loved you before i knew you yeah i think that is the sense that I believe in love at first sight i don't think love at first sight necessarily has to mean you look at someone and fireworks go off and all of a sudden orchestra's start playing like in your head, like I feel like love at first sight for me, does not even have to be romantic, it can be platonic too that feeling when you meet someone and you're like there you are I have met you before... are you anything like her? I feel like you have this positive energy about you that we saw from her too that she has this kind of very positive outlook on life and yeah i think there are a lot of similarities between us i think in many ways i was just able to play a version of myself that was a little sweeter, a little more shy and nervous what about you Nick? I feel like Olly and I share a lot of similarities and his um... his, I think, a very curious person, he is someone who is really curious about the world around him and the girl next door and so *giggle* I think that, that is something that we share Hi, my mom sent a bundt Welcome to the neighbourhood is your daughter around? would you have the balls to like ring a doorbell with like a cake? with a bundt cake? *laughter* It would take some cojones but um... I... I think that I could deliver a bundt *laugher* I think you could deliver a bundt Nick thanks I think you did it well thank you guys so much, it was great meeting you great meeting you thank you thanks for watching my interview, I hope you liked it and if you did please share, like, subscribe ALWAYS PLUG leave a comment below if you have anything you wanna share with me or with other people here on youtube and I hope I see you again soon bye, take care!