Good evening, it's Mamiko from GOROGORO KITCHEN. It is now March and the sunset time is getting much later. 'I hear mom ......!' I'm home! Welcome home. Today, Tsu-san was back home before me. I put the things I bought in the kitchen. Tola wants me to pet him as soon as I get home. It seems that colds are still prevalent, so I wash my hands thoroughly. I'll brush my coat, as Tsu-san, who is a care maniac, is very fussy. After changing into comfortable clothes, I get on with the housework. On the way home, I did some shopping at the Monoprix supermarket. A jar of chestnuts, a tasty ketchup, fresh cream with mascarpone, potato starch. These are chocolates in the shape of an egg case. It's almost Easter, so these are presents for my friend's children. Store the tomato ketchup and fresh cream in the refrigerator. I feel a little happier when I can fold my eco bag properly. Tola was waiting for new water. Like someone else, he has become a cat who is fussy about good food. I also have to put away the laundry that I hung out to dry. It's dry in France, so it dries quickly even indoors. I forgot to wipe the wooden bowl before going out, so water droplets formed. I wipe up the water droplets with a damp cloth. Hungry and noisy cats eat before humans. Now, I have to hurry up and prepare dinner. Tonight, the main dish is pork fried in ginger sauce style. Peel a piece of ginger and chop it finely. Peel the garlic clove, remove the buds, and chop it finely. Place the garlic and ginger together in a small dish. Peel and cut the top and bottom of one onion. Cut lengthways, remove the sprouts, then cut in half and slice thinly. Place the onion in a heatproof container and place in the microwave at 800 w for 2 minutes. Prepare two 200 g thick slices of pork. Remove the bone and cut into the muscle between the fat and the meat. Prick the whole thing with a fork. Season both sides with salt and pepper. Prepare the sauce by mixing 1 tbsp sugar, 1.5 tbsp soy sauce, 1.5 tbsp sake and 1 tsp vinegar. Let's make the miso soup. Boil water in a pot. Add dashi powder and oyster mushrooms. When the water comes to a boil, remove it from the heat and add the miso paste. Prepare a frying pan (and the backsplash against oil splashes). Heat the frying pan over medium heat for 1 minute, add 1 tbsp oil and add the pork. Cook it over medium heat for 2 minutes, then turn over. Cover with a lid and cook on low heat for 1 minute. Once cooked, remove the pork and place on a plate. Do not wash the pan but leave it on medium heat again and add the minced ginger and garlic. When fragrant, add the onions and fry. When the onions are transparent, add the sauce and stir-fry together. Serve the miso soup in bowls with dried wakame seaweed. Place a generous amount of the stir-fried ginger-onion sauce on top of the pork. Now, let's eat! Bon appetit! -Delicious! I heard that it's better to rest a little after eating and clean up after 30 minutes to lose weight. Most items can be washed in the dishwasher, so it's easy. I only wash wooden plates, chopsticks, and knives by hand. Taking advantage of the lesson from the afternoon, I immediately wiped down the bowl. Tsu-san takes care of the cat. Cats shed a lot of hair during the change of season and nightly brushing is essential. "Well, what about me?" After dinner, it's time for my hobbies. Tonight, I'm baking a green tea and chestnut pound cake, which I've been wanting to eat for a long time. Melt 110 g butter in the microwave at 500 w for 1 minute. With a stirring spoon, brush the side surfaces of the mould with butter. Place a parchment sheet in the bottom to prevent sticking. Crack 2 eggs into a bowl and start whisking, then add 100 g sugar in three additions. Once the mixture is well beaten, sift in 100 g of flour and 10 g of matcha. Mix it all together, using a rubber spatula. Add butter in two additions and mix until combined. Add 100 g sweet chestnuts and mix gently. When adding to the mould, make sure the centre is raised. Place in a preheated oven at 170degC. After 13 minutes, take it out and make a single slit in the centre with a knife. Bake for a total of 45-50 minutes, then remove. Run a knife around the sides, remove from the mould and leave to cool. While you're waiting, whisk the cream. Add a little sugar and whisk it. Place the cake on a plate and serve with the whipped cream. Yeah! -Why you laugh? Aren't you happy? I've been craving something sweet. I'm not sure if it's okay to eat this late at night. I feel a bit guilty. -Here's your tea. It looks delicious. Huh? Wine? Wow, it looks delicious. It's still warm... Well, we don't need to toast. -Let's just eat. Well, it's the middle of the night, but here's some whipped cream. -There's even extra whipped cream. You don't have to eat the extra whipped cream. You can eat it tomorrow. Delicious. It's really fluffy today. Yes, it's crispy outside. Somehow, it's crispiest when it's freshly baked. Then it gradually becomes moist. I see. Ah, do you want some, Tola? No, Tola, matcha is not for you. After all, it's crispiest when it's freshly baked. Yes. The edges are really crunchy, aren't they? Yes. -I'll go for the extra whipped cream. -No? I'm going for the extra whipped cream. Well, you see, this is how I become big. It's not good, I'm 40. I haven't been able to exercise much lately either. What should I do? Why do you say that while eating it? It's okay. I only used a little bit of sugar. Hum?? Is that so? But you know, matcha is good for your health, so... Does that help? Is matcha really good for you? Yes. Really? Because it's tea. That's too vague. Tea is good for your health, because of the catechins in it. And it contains other things good for health, I'm sure of it. Polyphenols... no, what was it? Polyphenols? -Matcha has that intense green colour, doesn't it? So, it must have something good in it, though I've forgotten what it is. It's good for your health. Delicious, the crispiness is nice too. You like it better when it's freshly baked. I prefer it freshly baked. I personally like it moist too. I also like extra whipped cream. But I'm totally fine without whipped cream too. But if it's available, I'll definitely add it. If it's not there, it's still okay. I wonder why whipped cream is so delicious. But there are quite a few people who don't like it. Yeah, there are. I wonder if they really don't like it. What do you mean? Do they dislike it because it makes them fat? It seems they genuinely don't like it. Is there anything to hate about it? They just don't like the taste? -Taste? It's just sweet, right? Does Tola dislike whipped cream and is he trying to join the conversation? Do you hate whipped cream, Tola? Ah, it seems like he doesn't hate it. Oh, I see. There are some. I know some people who choose cakes without whipped cream because they don't like it. Wonder why. What makes people hate whipped cream? It's just sweet...they don't like the something creamy? I can't understand people who don't like whipped cream. But for example, I'm not a fan of sponge cake. That, I can understand, because it's a bit dry, right? Yeah, but to people who really love sponge cake, that might be incomprehensible. But, you know, there are reasons to dislike something. For example, hating meat... Tsu-san, you've already eaten it. Do you want another piece? It doubles my guilt. -Well, then, another piece please. Do you mean it? Okay, then. You're amazing, Tsu-san. I'm done for. Wow, my first cake. Maybe you should just take a video of that piece when it's still crisply. But it's not a good idea to eat a second scoop of whipped cream, right? -At this point, anything goes. That's definitely not something I can do. -What do you want to do? Why is the cake good and whipped cream is not? OK, then... Then I'll have some cream. Delicious. This cake is delicious, Mamiko. You can do anything. No, I can't make engine valves for rockets. I'd be surprised if you could make it. But usually, people who are good cooks are not good bakers, and people who are good bakers are not good cooks. I read that in the comic &quot;What I Ate Yesterday&quot;. Ah, yes? Well, I can understand that, in theory. Sweets have to be made according to the instructions, with exact measurements. But people who are good at cooking are more likely to be able to cook by feel. Cooking has to be done properly. It's often not possible to taste it in the middle of the process. -It's for baking. But I thought that I could manage to make it without being too precise, with this cake. Really? Sometimes they don't inflate properly if you are not precise. It might fail if you used fewer ingredients for puffing, but I thought that I could vary the amounts of sugar and flour a little. Oh, really. I think so. I am a little surprised because you can do everything. Wasn't your home economics grade really good? It was excellent. I knew it! Because anything domestic, you can do it. From sewing and everything. I made pyjamas, and they won an award. What kind of pyjamas did you make? I don't know why, but I tried to make something really fashionable with pyjamas. A green and white checkered pattern was the basis. But the collar and buttons, which were really big, they were green. Oh. And the top was really short. The larger collar and buttons were green and the design made them stand out, while the rest was checkered and short length. Why did you want to create that kind of design? I don't know, but I made them and got praised by the home economics teacher and won an award. What did she say? I don't remember. But I had to wear it on a school trip. So it stood out a bit among other students, you know. That's what happened when I was in a junior high school. A bit too creative. Yes, true. That's what I did there. And when I was in elementary school, I was good at crafts too. Seems like you were. I made a letter stand, and it was a two-tiered. There's a tree at the back and a dinosaur in the front, three-dimensional letter stand. You can do everything, really. Looking back now, I used to make amazing things. You should showcase that talent at home from now on. It's better to create a &quot;Mamiko's DIY&quot; program instead of Tsu-san's. No way! And we don't even have a fretsaw. -Then let's buy one. -With a fretsaw, yes. I would break it right away, with fretsaw. I used very delicate movements to cut out the dinosaur shapes. -That's nice. Well, yeah. Having this conversation while eating dessert at middle of night. I wish I could've seen Mamiko's pyjamas. -I'm not sure where it went. But it's cold with the belly out. Was it that short? Were you sleeping with your belly out? Even though it was pyjamas? It wasn't that short, but normally pyjamas are longer on top. But it was bolero-length. Why was that? Because I was seeking too much fashion in pyjamas. I see, to give it a bit of a different feel. After all, I totally forgot it was pyjamas. Mamiko might have become a fashion designer. No way. Even now, I can draw those pictures. Yeah, you are good at drawing too, Mamiko. You can do anything, really. How about swimming? -I can't swim. I can only swim about 25 meters. It's good to hear that swimming's a no-go for you. You are strong in track and field, but when it comes to swimming... I am not very good at the sea. You can't even put your face in the water. Because I got carried away when I was a kid, drifted out to sea. Why did it happen? It wasn't in Okinawa....no. Okinawa?? When we went to visit relatives in Niigata and we went to the beach and we brought a big swim ring for adult. I was in elementary school back then, so I was small. As the float was for adults, so it was very large. So, my hands barely touched the water. I was floating and playing, but I found myself being swept out to sea. -My mom at the beach was this tiny. But since my hands couldn't touch the water, I had no choice but to kick with my feet. So I kept getting carried further out. I thought, &quot;Oh no, I'm being carried away to the Pacific Ocean.&quot; But it was the Sea of Japan, not the Pacific Ocean, as I was in Niigata. I was desperate, but my mother called someone for help and a man swam to my rescue. -Did he swim over? So, I was saved, but since then, I've been scared of the sea. But Niigata prefecture was a nice place. Really? For example, you could easily find sea urchins under rocks at that time. You have been a foodie since those days. We also picked ripe tomatoes and ate them. And my relatives had lots of manga in their house. That was the best environment. There was a bed with a canopy, and while eating tomatoes on there, I could read various manga like &quot;Makoto-chan.&quot; Their manga got dirty, I believe. It was unbelievably fun there, Niigata. Good for you. You'll have good dreams today. With memories of Niigata. And with memories of almost drowning. There were many delicious things in Niigata. Well then, let's go to bed now. Yes. Well, thank you for the cake. There is still some left, so you can have it tomorrow too. Thank you very much. Now, it's time to get ready for bed. Recently, instead of cotton, I use reusable pads. Dr Hauschka lotion is my current favourite skincare routine. The pads dry quickly after washing, so they are easy to use over and over again. I still get breakouts, so recently I've been using the multi-peptide HA serum from Ordinary. I bought the Sisley Ecological Compound because everyone praises about it. I definitely feel like it calms my skin. Well, good night.