Start your day off right with the Free In-Touch Devotional. Subscribe today. male announcer: In Touch, Dr. Charles Stanley. Next on &quot;In Touch,&quot; Dr. Charles Stanley: Well, God but not only that, He has He may have an overall plan for all of us. But there are many decisions we have to make, to accomplish in life. But whatever they are His plan is It'll always bring Him glory. And we know that we always have our life to fulfill Now, you may be in a situation going too well for you. You feel discouraged; maybe somebody; maybe maybe it's your You just feel like You're not sure what God You just can't figure it out. And you're wondering why He And you feel like you're being and over and over again. Well, if He is testing you it's for a reason. And what you and I need to do is tests and ask &quot;God, what are You What is it You Because He always has a purpose. God doesn't do anything And remember He knows exactly all present, and future. So, whatever He has something that He intends that is very good. Well, our scripture today is two And I want to talk about this courage in our life. Many times, what we face Sometimes we don't have it. And one of the interesting this: how often God is how often He's willing to step expect to encourage us in So, if you'll turn to the seventh chapter, and let me what's happening here. And if you will notice the people of Israel have sinned and here's where they are. The Bible says in verse one, what was evil in the and the Lord gave them into the For seven years, and this is the way they've been prevailed against Israel. Because of Midian the sons of which were in the mountains For it was when Israel had sown, up with the Amalekites and the and go against them. So they would camp against them earth as far as Gaza, and leave as no sheep, ox, or donkey. For they would come up with they would come in but they and their and they came into the So Israel was brought and the sons of Now, why were they in Well, the scripture &quot;And I said to you, 'I you shall not fear the gods of in whose land you live. But you have not obeyed Me.'&quot; They were where they are And I think this is the they say, &quot;Well, Lord, why are happen in my life?&quot; And it's this very issue here fact of where he And so, there are several things passage of scripture-- I want you to see how God again to encourage us when we don't know Or when we feel like there is a continuing So, the first thing I want calls those whom He's equipped That is, whatever He's already equipped you. It would be unfair for God to not equipped you to do. That doesn't mean that on your particular call and training--whatever it might be. But whatever He's He has equipped you to do it. And oftentimes you know, God just hasn't And I can't do this, and But oftentimes we're the ones And if you already decided that wants you to do, then you Listen to how God spoke to and twelfth verse With all of these and the Midianites and terrible time: &quot;Then the angel the oak that was in Ophrah, Abiezrite to his son Gideon was press in order to save They'd come up and take of the Lord appeared 'The Lord is with you, Well, you can imagine What do you mean &quot;valiant and trying to escape the because they steal And the scripture says, &quot;The 'Go in this your strength from the hand of Midian. Have I not sent you?'&quot; And of course, he was probably didn't feel qualified, capable. So, when God begins He understands that And what I want you to and I'll say this He uses this passage to be an Gideon to whom He said &quot;O valiant warrior.&quot; So, He could not have said that would be a greater to have courage and so forth. &quot;O valiant warrior.&quot; Now, he didn't feel that-a-way. Why did God say it? Because God knew what He was And oftentimes He will--God through His Word and say make in--maybe make any sense and yet God is doing something, very significant. So, when you look at Gideon's and I would say even the oftentimes needs So, in this sixth chapter I want us to look at God had called It appeared to be an impossible anyone of us would do. So, what did he do? Scripture says in &quot;Then Gideon said to God, 'If me, as You have spoken-- You said, 'You're going Midianites and Amalekites. If this is what behold, I will put a fleece of And if there is dew and it is dry on all on the will deliver Israel through So, what happens? Next morning, he wakes up and early in the morning, he drained the dew a bowl full of water. Well, what did he ask for? He said, &quot;God, if I'll know this is it.&quot; Now, I just love this verse-- head and said, &quot;God, Please, I just need to know-- little more assurance.&quot; And so, what does he do? He says, &quot;Then 'Do not let Your which is what we'd feel. Now, Lord don't get upset. But I--what I'm asking is, if may speak once more; please let the fleece, let it now be and let there be dew God did so that night; for it and dew on all the ground.&quot; Here's what God is saying to us. He says, &quot;Look, I I know sometimes I know sometimes you feel like what I'm asking you to do. Trust Me. And so, you and I don't have to got promise after promise We've got experience after after illustration, how God We have everything They didn't have that. He says, &quot;Lord, if this is what I'm willing to do. Little did he know that but that was not And so, God is getting He called him, &quot;O And now He's been testing And He has been encouraging Now, when you find out you'll understand why he needed and why God gave it to him. And sometimes I think &quot;Now, Lord, you know, I and I just need some help.&quot; All of us have been there. All of us are going to be When we don't know what to or it looks like that And how many times have I heard &quot;You know, I just knew it was the world to save this marriage, knew that there's no way for me other people were much more so I just, you know, 'O God, please help me.' And sure enough, they got it.&quot; And you could just go list after people have 'bout given up on and how He came through. Because, listen, listen, He wants to demonstrate His If we will keep our hearts clean trust Him, just trust Him, then us to do because He'll do And we said in whatever He calls us to do we We have the promise God, You called me to do; God, You've called me to, got energy, Your power and Your to get it done. He's always there to Now, when you come to all of us would have And yet God had He said, Lord, now, I'm And he did it twice. Now, for it to happen twice, defense and argument. So, look if you will in and beginning in this first Gideon) and all the rose early and camped and the camp of Midian was on hill of Moreh in the valley. The Lord said to Gideon, 'The This is his army now-- &quot;the people who are with you are into their hands, for saying, 'My own power So, He tells him why: proclaim in the saying, 'Whoever is let him return and depart So twenty-two thousand and left ten thousand.&quot; God, are You sure You Twenty-two, in other words, of every three left. Suppose you'd have been the you said--because you that all those men I would never let And two out of And what they were Well, that left That's ten thousand and thirty-five thousand. That's pretty bad odds. So, God said to him, that's not good enough.&quot; Then the Lord said to Gideon, And I imagine Gideon was about &quot;You better say that again, God. &quot;Then the Lord said to Gideon, bring them down to the water and Therefore, it shall be &quot;This one shall go with but everyone of &quot;This one shall not go with So, He said, &quot;Now, I'll You've got ten thousand. I'll determine who's and who's not, and then.&quot; &quot;So he brought them And the Lord said to Gideon, laps the water with his as well as everyone who Now the number of those who their mouth, was three hundred people knelt to drink water.&quot; Now, here's what He's saying. And He was--this is He said, &quot;If he stoops down and But if he kneels down and send him home because that He's not being cautious. He's looking at the ground where the enemy are.&quot; So, what does that leave him? He had to be thinking, &quot;God, recount this a little bit, Lord, what we can do. &quot;The Lord said to Gideon, 'I hundred men who lapped and will hands; so let all each to his own home.' So the three people's provisions and And Gideon sent all the but retained the and the camp of Midian was And I'm sure Gideon &quot;Now, let's go back Do you mean three thousand?&quot; &quot;No.&quot; &quot;Well, maybe thirty thou--&quot; Now, watch this. It doesn't make any and I have or don't have. When God commands remember two things you have: You have the power of God and And when you have it doesn't make any difference armed they are or how much they When you have the power of you're always a majority and better equipped. [congregation applauding] At every turn, Now, so now that he has three three hundred men against a hundred and Have you ever been in a looked impossible to you? So, let me ask you, if Did you give up and quit? What did you do when the odds were against you You could give lots of But remember this: It doesn't make any When Jesus Christ is your Savior and you're walking in His will, a majority, no matter what. Because that is the It's when we get discouraged. It's when we forget It's when we forget &quot;I'll never leave I'm going to be The Holy Spirit will be giving guidance and direction life, whatever it might be. And so, with that here's what Gideon did. God showed him what to do. Now, remember, all these So, in the He said, &quot;We're going to a hundred in each group. And we're only going to have and the trumpet. Now, I'm sure they had a And so, here's what We're going to all line And so, when they look, all And when they look, Because they are going--what to be different from So, what do they do? They get in position and they all break their pitchers-- They've been down there asleep; most of them probably. And all of a sudden, they all around the mountain. Well, having it all around message: &quot;We're surrounded.&quot; And when after that happened, And what does that say? All this noise and all this everywhere you look, there's, So, what do they do? They get up in the night. They go out. They can't see who the enemy is; enemy's already there, so And the truth is, they wiped And those who escaped, they them, that God gave them Now, Gideon didn't even Think about how You're going to war with a torch to cover it and a trumpet? That's for orchestras and bands. That's not for warfare. God--listen carefully--can accomplish His purpose. And you'll recall, what Stone and a sling--not which says that God can use if you'll be sure that your and obedient before God. No matter what you what the problem may be, God and no matter what. That's who He is. Three hundred men watch all these, all of these enemies, Midianites--wipe out each other. And the ones that were left, and beheaded the leaders. And Gideon had an And over and over and He gave him enough that he didn't get discouraged. So, when you look at this whole worked in their What is the message So, I want you to get so I put them on the I want to give you because these are five I want you to First of all is this: Don't underestimate what God No matter who you are, He does sometimes the people Don't underestimate what God Secondly, God will always be He called you to do. He's always there. &quot;I'll never leave you nor All your friends You may feel alone. You may feel helpless, because you have Him. The third thing is this: He's ready to give you Everybody doubts some And there's not &quot;I've never doubted.&quot; We've all hit those situations for a few moments or a brief something in our life to remind that we can trust Him. So, He's ready to give you Number four, His ways are often but always the best Everywhere Gideon And the greatest test of all was against the hundred and of his enemy. God was with him, and he and he simply did Before he'd-- &quot;Now, look, God does--we gotta First of all, we're they're down there. How are we going to defeat them and they're down there?&quot; In other words, if it was totally unreasonable. Now, watch this. Sometimes God will do things that are totally unreasonable. I could name a few in my can--totally unreasonable. But what happens? There is no way to fail And that brings me He always works in a way that That's the way He operates. If you're willing to die to to Holy God through He will accomplish in your more that you, more than you He will accomplish in and So, I want to ask you Who's running your life anyway? Are you living by Are you asking the Lord to give day of your life? You say, &quot;Well, I'm Well, let's talk about it. If you're not, here's &quot;I'm sufficient, I'm adequate, I I don't need God.&quot; This is the God This is the God who's This is the God who's given you talents and skills, and you're That is a foolish statement. You're looking God Almighty in don't need Him when your What you really need is the applied to your life. What He did at the cross And the only way you're accepting Jesus Christ, who died an atoning a death that made it possible you to have your sins forgiven That's the only Look around you. Look at what's happening to You don't even have to read And then look at people who relationship to Him. God will transform your life. He will do in you and through But first of all, He He must have your so He can call the plays and That's the opportunity you have. And if you're willing to ask Him surrender your life to You say, &quot;Well, You just keep week after week after week, God the other, teach you how and to live a godly life. And that's my prayer for you. Father, how grateful we are for us to be saved. To simply confess acknowledging that and that our sins have and only by the shed blood of are our sins atoned for. I pray for every person who's Spirit would speak to You know where they are; in--heartaches, loneliness, frustration, fears. And Father, You know exactly to change all of that. Give them the God, to call upon You and seek heart that You will hear And we pray this in CC by Aberdeen Captioning