The Maestro was the car that killed Austin Poised on a knife-edge in the early 80's its booted Montego sister, caused its death. Not right away - plenty of Government subsidies another 20 years, but this was the critical When the company lost its ability to chart So why were these cars such poor-sellers, successful Metro, get it all wrong with its This is the Austin Maestro and Montego Story. (music) The Maestro &amp; Montego started life way back in 1975 when the company started looking to the much-maligned Austin Allegro, which was But the British Leyland bankruptcy and subsequent of a new mid-size car. Thoughts of the new cars really kicked into in to "fix" British Leyland in 1977 by Gone were the open top sports cars, to be that would bring the car company back to profitability. The small car would be the Metro, codenamed The medium car would be LC10. Once these were released, if there were sufficient car and sports car model. And a new medium-sized car was truly needed. By the late 70's customers found that cars they traded down from larger cars. It was small enough to park and being smaller to run, so was cheaper to both purchase and With a hatchback and folding rear seats, its of loads, and with improvements in suspension on the motorway. The LC8 / LC10 plan was approved by British the Maestro and Montego gathered pace. It was decided a hatchback was necessary to was king, so the Maestro was prioritised to Spen King and Gordon Bashford, fresh from in to make the Maestro and Montego underpinnings. Thinking of the Golf, it was made front-wheel Gone was the fancy Hydragas suspension of the Metro as Spen had always favoured simple car chassis. And he could make simple suspension feel class so why not? The wheelbase would be 98". Long for a hatchback, but this was done so both the Maestro and Montego could share the same platform. The Maestro would go up against the Ford Escort, Ford Cortina. And it would have a similar range of engines. The stalwart 1950's Austin Mini A-series time in improved 1.3L "A-plus" form used The larger 1.6L engine was more of a problem. The O-Series engine from the Marina and Princess the tight engine bay. Without an alternative, British Leyland got The Austin Maxi &amp; Austin Allegro production be needed so the tooling was ordered to be But Ray Gatrix, the Longbridge Purchasing had kept it in storage. With some tweaks the E-Series could be the It was reconfigured into a 1.6L, tweaked and The E-Series wasn't a new engine, but there the Maestro was launched. That would come when it was renamed once more retrofitted back into the Maestro. BL were doing the best they could with the were more focused on short-term full employment the company's long-term survival. The A-series Metro engine had a 4-speed gearbox. This wasn't competitive in a car the size own 5-speed box as the LT80. But they couldn't make it good enough, so Where British Leyland prided itself on making sign that the company didn't have the funds At the start of 1970 BL had produced 2M cars 10 years later it was down to just over 1M. Although Harris Mann submitted a design for done by Ian Beech under the management of David Bache, who had designed the Rover P6 and SD1. It seems that although Harris Mann was flavour of his cars put him out in the cold by the Ian Beech's design offered a light cabin first mass-produced cars to use body-coloured Realising that the Golf GTI was a hit, BL But with little time and resources they merely producing a hardly outstanding 0-60 time of The car was pitched in customer clinics against all late 70's designs, where it performed The team thought they were on to a winner. To show off the hidden microchip-run lean Austin Rover put an "Econometer" on the how clever it was. And there weren't just microchips under The top of the range Maestro's got a "state 32 speech commands in 15 languages that told The marketing men wanted customers to know have a 1970's dashboard and even older engines. But all wasn't well in the design team. There was severe friction from David Bache, British Leyland. They were trying to style the cars in two This came to a head in 1981 where Bache was fired on the spot after a particularly big argument. Bache's successor was Roy Axe, When he arrived, he took one look at the Maestro The proportions of both cars were all wrong cars sitting too high. The design was all sharp angles where current The Montego was a product of two different The dashboards looked ancient. In his opinion the cars should be scrapped, Harold Musgrove told him that the Government had to proceed. To be fair to Harold, he was right that the experienced people at British Leyland should The Maestro was the second car in BL's three The Metro had succeeded, so over PS200M was to ensure the Maestro and Montego were a hit. The Cowley plant would be the most advanced British Leyland hired 1,100 more workers to and the Government poured another PS100M The car was launched on March 1st, 1983 as not quite clear why it was a miracle. Maybe it was a miracle it had finally launched The motoring press were lukewarm. Sales began strong but began to fade by the end of the year - not a good sign for a new car. It soon became clear that customers weren't As Roy Axe had said, both the outside and Although the dashboard had a clean and simple and was made of several pieces which rubbed as the new cars were driven down the road. Austin Rover, as BL were now called, had a and many cars sat unfinished as production Production quality issues, something now expected in abundance. The rushed MG Maestro's engine would overheat So, it was both slow and unreliable! The VW gearbox, so good in the Golf, felt And those quality issues hit the most hi-tech In any other car sensor issues might produce every time you go over a bump, being told by a nagging woman trapped behind the dashboard. Then the industrial disputes started. With management pushing for high quality and with workers, whose natural reaction was to The bad old days of "them and us" weren't British Leyland from the outside. The strike put BL even further behind on their The Montego was able to fix some of the Maestro's The R-Series engine was fully updated to the both cars to more fully compete with the competition. And the dashboard was modernised, making it The 2.0L O-Series engine, used in the Princess a more pleasant Honda gearbox. Montego launched in April 1984 and the attractive estate version followed just a few months later. Finally, Austin Rover had a full suite of vacated 7 years earlier, and they hoped the of the Ford Cortina replacement, the Sierra, But with Ford having to discount their Sierra their Cavalier to make gains in the fleet profit margin. With quality problems hitting both cars, sales Austin Rover's reputation for poor quality much patriotism can get over that hump. Customers were moving towards more reliable With Roy Axe so unhappy with the Maestro and on a replacement for the Montego, and by 1985 models and interior designs. The car would be known as the Rover 400 and would be launched the following year. It would be a saloon, hatchback and estate. A Maestro facelift was worked on, but by 1985 die with Austin Rover focusing on the Rover But by now it was becoming clear to both Austin profitability had gone. PS2.3B had been given to the company by taxpayers and they didn't have much to show for it. The Conservative Government tried to sell by the opposition party and they were forced But with the Government privatising everything company wasn't on the cards. Where the Maestro and Montego had wanted to be top of the sales charts, they were falling rapidly. "And here's the top 10 cars for 1986. At number 10 a new entry for the Ford Granada. At number 9, moving up one, it's Austin's At 8, falling one, it's Austin's sister Moving up one, it's Ford's booted wonder Dropping 4 to number 6, the definitely not The second-best selling supermini at 5, the And at 4, rising three places and beating At number 3, Britain's leading the supermini And at 2, it's beating out the Montego and So who will be number one for 1986? Well it's the same car as last year, it's the By 1987 marketing had discovered the public thought both the Maestro and Montego had a boring image, so decided to make a series of adverts The old-fashioned "Austin" name was dropped renamed to just "Rover". By 1989 a diesel engine had appeared, and late 80's hotter MG Turbo versions of both the cars to 60 in 6.8 seconds. Using the trick to push old cars by pepping foreshadow the MG ZR and ZS models in the Rover tried one last time to breathe life by turning it into an SUV of sorts. The team that had come up with the Land Rover had a whiff of the later Volvo XC70 and could But Rover management decided that it couldn't have really needed expensive 4-wheel drive With Maestro and Montego still in limited to sell the tooling to all bidders to get The Maestro was sold in Bulgaria where it final assembly at a new Bulgarian factory. After the Soviet bloc collapsed this would Production began in 1995 and though the vehicles due to being too expensive against much better Production stopped in 1996 with only 2,200 The unsold kits were shipped back to the UK Meanwhile the Montego was beginning a new Again, Rover would partially produce the cars in the UK with final assembly by Sipani Automobiles in India. Sipani sold it as the "Rover Montego" But the car hit the same problem the Bulgarian The Indian car market was opening up, with such as Suzuki, Daewoo, Ford and GM. The Montego was ten-year old technology and Just 500 were sold. You would think that was the end of the story. But no! The Chinese company Etsong bought the tooling production in 2000. The cars used Toyota engines with Nissan dashboards Production ended in 2003. You think that's the end? Wrong again! Etsong sold the tooling to FAW in China who The first cars were essentially Etsong variants thought it would be a good idea to weld the that's been nicknamed the "Monstro". And a "Monstro" it really was as well! But humans weren't done punishing these It was like the Maestro and Montego had gone of punishment were being dreamt up. Or maybe these cars were like Chucky in that The next company to get their hands on the named "Yema SQJ4650" in 2006. Less a product This was followed in 2009 by the incremental looked for all the world like a knockoff Subaru Yet this still wasn't the end! Actually, no, I'm lying. That was the end. The Maestro and Montego had been put through To keep my videos free from adverts, to get credits, please consider supporting me using a month and hit the subscribe button to get Thanks for watching and see you in the next