And what she did ask for And the mathematicians of and they all cobbled and they commissioned the and she wrote all the And I thought that was a lovely story, and that's how I first I knew nothing about the but that was my first experience were actually this is a hero whose other than like Hank Aaron I didn't really know his story, but here was an example of someone who would unknowingly become someone who I've been So anyway, if any of that's what this book is about. It turns out that I don't I don't care if you believe but something about my relationship and my family's relationship to this man, both scientifically and emotionally and in terms of the need in many, many different ways in my life, and is basically that has happened to whether it was in college, later in graduate school or the opportunity to work with Hollywood stars, making a film, all of these things have and none of them would've and this amazing guy. So as I said, a few years The Man Who Knew Infinity starring Dev Patel and Jeremy Irons. I cannot help but tell you crazy stories about what it's like to make a film. Dev, he came to fame because Slumdog Millionaire. When we made this film, he had just broken up with his girlfriend who was the lead actress He was all boy then, he's now grown-up, maybe you've seen him in the film, Lion, and later this month he's coming out in, he'll be in two films, one another one called Hotel Mumbai, which will be a thrilling film of a few years ago in Mumbai but anyway, here is proof that I actually worked on this film. (audience laughs) I still talk to Dev every once in awhile, he still sends me Christmas And here is a picture of us onset talking about a theorem called Cauchy's residue theorem. What I like about this story is that this film even helped someone like Dev, who was a middling actor at the time. And he was very excited to who is the consummate actor. So before Jeremy arrived on how are we gonna talk to Jeremy Irons? He is somehow gonna elevate He had no idea that I was shocked that I was talking to someone like him, but it was actually very interesting on many different levels. One of the stories that many of the stories I'll tell you about, if I don't forget to, is to tell you about how important this film, was to both Irons and Dev Patel. This was a small project, this was not Batman versus Superman, this was a small film, but it was a film that To give you proof, one week before the last Jeremy Irons and I were she is the current, then of the National Science Foundation. They invited us with the to the White House to for the transition teams presidential candidates at the time. You see when you run for President, it doesn't mean you know There's a whole operation in place, and so there's training. And shortly before Halloween, right before the election, the two leading presidential were invited to the White House, and one of those days was And as was planned, they and panels describing what the National Science Foundation does, what the NIH does, and I participated in that. And what we decided to do was at the end of a very long day we would have a little party where we would show the film, The Man Who Knew Infinity because at the time there were a lot of very difficult issues that NIH and EPA wanted us to discuss. One of those issues was, of course, related to the importance So thank you for coming, And another one is the importance of, of how to bring groups of people with very different great that would be And so they thought the film, would be like perfect for this. And Jeremy when he learned I'm gonna come, support this mission, and he did it for free. And I thought that was And so here we are right before the party. We're standing in front of the West Wing, and maybe some of you saw it, if not it wasn't actually very exciting. I think it almost failed a mathematics problem to the If you can read the what is the smallest two cubes in two different ways? And that's a question that had you seen the film. By the way it's the number 1729. So a couple of things and I'll show you some clips, so that you can actually see in film, in action some of the important features. Ramanujan was born a long time Think lush tropical India, he was born in 1887 in Southern India. He was born a Brahmin, loosely think of that I think the vast majority of in this country are probably Brahmin. Ramanujan won't come as a he was a talented student, he won awards. And if you ever happen to travel to India, which I strongly recommend, the colors are brilliant, the And it's probably very you've ever experienced if Certainly the food is and I've come to enjoy If you happen to travel to a town called Kumbakonam in the south of India, you can actually visit the you can visit his high school, and the high school principal the awards that he won over 100 years ago who keeps records like that. Ramanujan isn't someone His ideas, as I said, came from So he started finding And as we are told, he by himself using his own If you're thinking, who Great question, Ramanujan did that. He rediscovered a lot of And what I like about the story is, when he discovered that he really got upset. (audience laughs) And he took his notebook, he threw it on the roof of his house. And, well, he returned to the mathematics maybe a few weeks later, but what does that show? That shows self-confidence, that shows ambition and that shows drive, which is something that I need to remember is one of the critical features to being successful. Think of visiting a kindergarten class, every kid can run fast, everyone can sing. Everyone is good at everything and somehow along the way if you discovered that that, that idea of hope somehow vanishes. I don't know how we can rekindle that. So one of the things that from the story of Ramanujan The belief that he could And I like that. It's not about what you become, it's not about label, it's not it's really about what you achieve. And I learned that very early from my dad in learning about the story of Ramanujan. Ramanujan received as this book called Elementary When I was his age, if someone I would have to truly wonder (audience laughs) Who give someone math books? I'd have thought my mom, for sure, paid this kid to give me these books. (audience laughs) But anyway, this is a in the sense that this book It's a list of 6000 or so just, it's like a Wikipedia, articles, just listing 6000 formulas but as the story goes, this book ignited Ramanujan's and he decided from that assemble his own findings emulating the format that I don't have time to go into but let me just tell you the very first page begins A minus B equals A minus B, check. So he's got 6164 to go. The second one is a little bit better, A squared minus B squared equals A minus B times A plus B. Maybe only a little bit but the next one, if or if you remember your is actually doing something. When he factorize A cubed minus B cubed is A minus B times A squared plus AB plus B squared. If in high school you saw and thought, that actually Well, that might offer some insight into how Ramanujan viewed this book because immediately after that formula for A cube minus B cubed, dot dot dot, and then there's a sentence, and there's a general formula for all N factorizing A to the N minus B to the N. And if you know what I'm about that step observing you will know then how And I think most experts agree that Ramanujan viewed these dot dot dots, and there's a general pattern as his sort of like video game. I was playing Atari, he If you go to Chennai and visit the University it should be against the law, right. It'd be something like going and demanding to see the but anyway if you go to this library, you can ask to see Ramanujan's notebooks and they will bring them out. Here is proof, here are and I got to tell you, but to really flip through despite the fact these To literally hold those books is kind of a magical experience. And if you ever do go ask because there are almost no words, these were just pages and your first thought might be, what are we talking about What is it about these And if you're thinking that as wonderful because let me tell you, and we're still trying to I don't know many books that we study for over 100 years and continue to learn. There are a few books that come to mind, and in mathematics these have led to several Fields Medals. If you know about the distribution of multi-centered black holes, which has been in the certainly in terms of mathematical models that are related to the There are formulas in these notebooks that people put to use, to write down those equations, long before anyone was even And that is crazy. If there isn't something spiritual about someone writing down to study black holes 100 years later, then I don't know what I could offer you, that would be really quite striking. So Ramanujan became and he started to spend all of his time doing his mathematics, and as a result he flunked I don't recommend that there are certainly benefits and getting good grades, people who are artists, the that you think of that are related to the creative pursuits in the world, Ramanujan was something like that. He spent a lot of his time in temples listening to drums, doing his mathematics. His mother actually sang in temples, and despite the fact he was he had friends, he had support. This is actually very important to me. Maybe I didn't do a very good but to be successful, nobody is successful by their own merits, everyone needs help, whether it's a friend or a parent or a teacher like that along the way. And Ramanujan certainly needed help and the first people who supported him offered him work as a that he was a two-time college dropout. What I'd like to say here, and this is what I told the amazing fact that as a two-time college or at least his mother And I thought that was a and I certainly needed Nobody could understand his mathematics. So imagine being utterly and not having anyone to share it with. How terrible would that be? It takes a strong person to continue working under So as I said I can't resist So the first film clip I want to show you was one of the hardest scenes because early on we have that Ramanujan is desperate for a friend, he is desperate to have someone We also had to introduce a character, we had to introduce Ramanujan's wife who he married when she was nine, so you can tell we lied. Devika who plays Ramanujan's And the challenge that the you guys talk about mathematics being beautiful all the time, what's with that, help us that it's okay for someone and try to get across the idea that it's something that without actually having So let me show you what we did. Lights. - Go ahead, you can look, please. - What does it all do? - It's like a painting, I think. Only imagine it is with - What good is that? (laughs) - Not much for you, I'm afraid, but for me it is everything. Maybe there is someone else who can see and understand it as well. And for them it will be important. - Have you met them? - No, not yet. - I want to understand more - What do you see? - Sand. - Yes. Imagine, if we could look so closely, we could see each grain, each particle. You see, there are patterns in everything, the color in light, the reflections on water. In maths, these patterns reveal themselves in the most incredible form. - Lights. So that's one scene, okay. So that was Devika, she is called Swords and Scepters later this week at the Vancouver Film Festival. I encourage you to see that certainly if you're interested in some stuff that I don't really know. So anyway, as I've now told you, Ramanujan was filling his He couldn't share his ideas with anyone and this couldn't go on forever, and so he reached out for help. He began to write letters to the most distinguished which were professors and he ended up writing one to a professor by the name of G.H. Hardy. Hardy is a name I think most of you know or at least wants to know whether or not you are a mathematician. If you remember your genetics class, you may have learned the Hardy-Weinberg law, which by the way for a mathematician is just a statement that one half times but we'd like the applied nature of that. (audience laughs) And Hardy received this that begins with very famous By the way if you're wondering, Ramanujan despite the fact that Tamil was his native language, he went to an so he was very fluent. So if you're wondering, that's, he was very, well, these are his words, let me read them to you, I love, and his handwriting was but most of, certainly puts me to shame. The letter he wrote to I beg to introduce I have had no university education, I have not trodden through the but I'm striking out and the results that I get are turned by local mathematicians as startling. And the paper goes on, pages upon pages of crazy formulas. Here is a famous photo of the and one of the best things was that we had Jeremy And one of the first after showing him this picture And I blew up the picture but there was a perfect picture like this and it was incredible. And if you're a fan of films and Jeremy Irons is someone let me say this guy was literally amazing. It's not just the velvety to use his face in many different ways to express even the subtlest of emotions, he was really incredible, in He raised everything about our project. And if you want to know, at the time he was set to in the film, Batman Versus Superman. Maybe some of you saw that poor movie. (audience laughs) And you might remember that that film, Batman Versus Superman was delayed by a couple of months for some reason, is because Jeremy wanted to play a Cambridge professor in our small film. And I thought that was the To put this in context, we in England and in India the summer that Harrison at Pinewood Studios in London. So to put the context and the timing, we were there, it was crazy. What was in this letter There were some things that would make you think he was crazy. All right, so hopefully In this letter you can find the expression that one plus two plus three, summing up all the equals negative 1/12. So there's several problems with that. (audience laughs) But it turns out that to Hardy and analytic number theorist, believe it or not you can make So if you've never seen what's called the Riemann zeta function, just take my word for it, equal what you want it to mean, and there is a way to make And Hardy would have recognized the brilliance in this expression. And so in Hardy, Ramanujan perhaps had finally found someone who understood him. What else was in this letter? The stuff in this letter I'd like to take a moment to teach you. So for a teaching moment I what is the value of X? And if you hated math and math class, it might be the first few but let's have fun with it. What is X? I'm asking you, what is if X happens to be this If you know about the golden ratio, you might know this connection, but if you don't know about all I want you to observe is that the part of this number in red is exactly the same as the whole number on the right-hand side. it's an example of a number And because of that, if it turns out to simplify dramatically, so you get that X is a solution to X equals one divided by one plus X. And by high school algebra getting this quadratic equation And by the quadratic formula, and by positivity this crazy expression becomes a number negative one plus the score to five over two. It's a trick, the number If it's sufficiently complicated, it doesn't matter how complicated it is, just declare the number to be a symbol and you get an equation. This is kind of a thing that we do in mathematics all the time. Well, another thing that is ask questions like this. When someone offers you or a beautiful formula, a is that a one-off? Is that just a curiosity or That's a very easy question to ask, it's very hard question to answer if the answer is that it So the question I just asked Define this function, this which is one divided by one plus and it descends forever, and the variable Q appears as increasing powers of Q in the numerator. And when I say that mathematicians are in the business of building what I want you to remember we're back in the realm of my trick. If we're like Q equals The problem is, if Q is that trick no longer works. So is there a theory or not? So if you are a working scientist, one of the first things you might do is, well, let's plug in spot values for Q, like maybe negative one maybe we can get our hands dirty and see glimpses of a theory because we can manipulate numbers. I invite you to do that, and you probably won't get very far, okay. So at the time when Hardy the question would have been, can anyone on the planet evaluate R of Q for other values of Q? And the answer would've been no. And Ramanujan ended his he knew he could shock a by saying, by the way, that E to the minus pi root, and I want you to pause and What is the nastiest number you know? It might be called pi. What is the next nastiest It's called E, it could be E. If we have to denote a number by a letter, in particular a Greek letter or E, it's probably pretty nasty. It means we don't want to write it down. So Ramanujan said, instead of plugging in let's come up with the nastiest let's raise E to the And he said, and I took scan of the letter and cropped it, the last three entries in his letter are, by the way that, so if you let N be one, I'm sorry, let N be four, and it evaluates to something that looks not very different from what And if you let these other he claims that these numbers that you could derive from from you, from the trick. And that takes a genius. Most people would try to plug in a hat thinking that's hard. 1/7th, right, I never liked 1/4th I know 0.25, 1/7th I had Forget that, he goes to E and for Ramanujan that And not only was it natural, his evaluations involved numbers that we had actually already known. Where does that come from? All right, so in this film to explain any of what I just did too. And maybe I didn't do a good job anyway. By the way that last was not confirmed until and it took a full professor Remember, Ramanujan died at 32, it took Brian Conrad, a very distinguished a student of Andrew Wiles, to finally nail down what Ramanujan knew in the first letter he wrote to Hardy. Anyway, in this film we that Hardy was utterly shocked by a letter from an Indian clerk. So let me show you this scene, (audience laughs) - You know, Littlewood, this year alone I've from those who profess to prove the prophetic the revelations of the Elders of Zion, and the cryptograms, which within the plays of the But a letter from an ill-educated challenging assertions I really takes the biscuit. - Well, I have to say, I've - So you admit it? - But this was three years ago. - No, no, no, I'm Bloody brilliant, I thought. I don't know where you got the postmark. Almost had me fooled. - I simply don't know - Oh, come on, I'm not a complete idiot. - I don't know how to get but whatever it is you're talking about, I'm simply not involved. Play. - Sir, you've missed Hall. - Not hungry. - I tell you, there is a war because we are being led like and no one bothers to question any of it. It's coming, all right, you can smell it. - You're as paranoid as Hardy. - With all due respect, Bertie, Littlewood, could I have a word? - Yes, of course. Integrals, Infinite series, Oh, excuse me. I always forget you don't - Right. - If this chap turns out to be genuine, you might have to reconsider. - He must be genuine. - Who would have the - Well, I'm rather (laughs) These two infinite series - Yeah, they defeated me completely. I've never seen anything like them. - Well, it's deceptive. I'll wager the hypergeometric - Our great Littlewood stumped. He's Hobbs class, I'd say. Being inexperienced, I would very highly value Yours truly, S. Ramanujan. - What does the S stand for? - You can ask him yourself. - You intend to invite him here? - Well, no, no, no, no, no. Much better, let him rot away in his office in Madras, right. - All right, did you see what I mean about the facial depressions is I couldn't help but say that the tennis balls that yeah, that's, you know. (audience laughs) They tried very hard and we filmed a few scenes, but there just weren't in Cambridge at the time. (audience laughs) So I made the cutting room So you learned a lot. Put things into at a time when India was part How great was it? It was awful to be Indian. India was basically a colony. The Indians were subjugated What you also learn here is by this letter from an Indian that he couldn't believe that it was even genuine, he thought it was a hoax perpetrated by his good friend, John Littlewood. And by the way you are also and it was fascinating that were at Trinity College Here you learn for the was a distinguished English professor who happen to be an atheist. In fact he's quite well-known If you know anything about Hardy and you know his readings, he had a feud with God, talk about ego. God will not let me die because so it was very interesting. And I told you that who said his ideas came to For many people who saw how do people from very from very different stations in the world, social structure wise A, understand each other, and B, produce something great neither of them would've So for many people that was the story. And it was actually a Hardy never really had many Ramanujan had no friends and in a way they were although at the same time they could not be more And I thought that was a lovely thing. So as you heard, Hardy invited and this scene that I'm going to show you is their first meeting in Hardy's office. - Ramanujan, we've decided you should attend some lectures. - But I'm here to publish. - Yes, all in good time, I hope, but first we need proofs of your work. - It's really nothing to worry about. It's simply a question, acquainting you with that will benefit our - I mean, we need a common language. You wouldn't expect us to (laughs) - No, but you expect me to speak English. - Quite. So, there will be plenty - I'm sorry, but with all humility, how does anyone know that? I don't want this to die with me. - (laughs) I assure you it won't. - Thank you, sir, but I have As I told you, the letter only contained a small sampling of my discoveries. You'll see I have even found a function which exactly represents the number of prime numbers less than X in the form of an infinite series. - Exactly? - Yes, I thought if you it should be something ground-breaking. - This is most unexpected. - Hardy, this will take a lifetime. - Maybe two. - So I'm showing you It was one of the things I'm What I like about this is that, we had to make it very clear that Hardy did not yet in the person he had invited from India. So that's what the We also had emphasized as he naturally would, there is a lot of implicit but is not implicit bias, this was just how things And then you also see knowing that his situation And if you do remember World this was a very tumultuous time. I also had a little bit of who've devoted their entire careers to studying Ramanujan's where Littlewood says, this That was a little poke to my friends, Bruce Berndt and George Andrews who have devoted their entire lives to making sense out of these notebooks. And that's a true story. So what you also see here and this is something I and I wish I'd told my kids, but I didn't because I didn't You have to somehow and sort of remove yourself from situations to understand things, but to be a good professor, there is no single way Sometimes to be a good professor, you have to recognize that in your student you have someone that you cannot And it is that's, and often these students that are clearly talented, just like kids could be hard to reach, are the ones that you And you might actually regret, I wonder what happened to so-and-so. I knew they were smart, I wish they had just come to office. If you're a professor, I'm And so one of the important reaching the audience members or parents or university professors is in this scene where Hardy who thought he knew how to be a professor finally has to come to grips with in Ramanujan I have a genius, and I have a moral to do the right thing and so that we can really find So the scene I'm about to show you, I think is the last one I'm gonna show you before we start talking and then into the conclusion I think Ramanujan matters that being a good teacher on the part of the mentor, and how Hardy broke through with Ramanujan was to finally get the genius he had gifts that the world would need. If you're really gifted like Ramanujan, you might be writing down your formulas for your own enjoyment. It was pleasing to you you might not know that the might actually matter to someone, except in this case I assure you they do. I'm gonna end this lecture with something that's very surprising to you. You use Ramanujan's mathematics today, all of you, probably that has only been introduced I'm gonna prove that to but anyway, this is a beautiful scene. It was actually filmed at Oxford because the library at Oxford but I hope certainly for that you can appreciate. - How did you know that theorem? - It came to me. Mr. Hardy, I don't understand why we waste our time I have the formulas. - It's not that I can't It's that I'm not sure that Or indeed your claims are correct, there are subtleties which-- - But they are right, sir. I have more important new ideas. - Yes, but intuition is not enough, it has to be held accountable. And a little humility would go a long way. Why do you think they want us to fail? - Because I am Indian. - Well, yeah, there is that, but also because of what we represent. Now, Euler and Jacobi, who are they? - Mathematicians. - Just names to you. Euler was the most productive mathematician of the 18th century. Most of his work done after he was blind. Jacobi, like you, was and was almost as impressive as Euler. Now, I think you are in their class. What they had in common, what I see in you is a love of form, it's all through your notebooks. Let me ask you something. Why do you do it, any of this? - Because I have to, I see it. - Like Euler, form for its own sake, an art unto itself. And like all art, it reflects truth. It's the only truth I And you, just as Mozart could hear an entire symphony in his head, you dance with numbers to infinity, but this dance, this art, does little to endear who see us as mere conjurors. So if we are going to that are so well trod, we I need you to attend your lectures, don't offend your professors, and keep doing your proofs, otherwise this experiment of Come with me. I wanna show you something. There are many ways to be honored in life. For us being elected a but in my humble opinion to leave legacy here at the Wren after This library houses the the poems of Milton, Morgan's Bible, but in my estimation as a man of numbers, the piece de resistance is Now, just as Newton represents the physical aspect of our work, your notebooks represent the abstract. Took a long time with Newton to be proved, which is why we have an And if we do, I believe that one day, one day these notebooks Now, do you understand Good. - That's a beautiful scene. All right, so how does the story go? Unfortunately the true part of story has a little bit of glory, Ramanujan in his time in England wrote 30 papers, some with Hardy. He overcame great difficulties to do this. Racism, World War I, the food, right, he was a in England at a time when it'd have been very difficult to be a vegetarian, but despite these hardships, he ultimately was elected That is a big honor, it's a big We make that very clear. He was the first Indian scientist ever to be elected fellow of the Royal Society. It's a great honor and he was By the way he was elected in 1918. Last October 2018 marked the 100th And what did the Royal Society do? My friend Venki Ramakrishnan who is now current President the first Indian President took to the 21st century He has actually won the despite the fact that he himself overcoming incredible obstacles. He was inspired by He arranged for us to celebrate the 100th anniversary of Now let me remind you, if the Royal Society celebrated that was part of the Royal Society, they would have no time to So really it says something and the Royal Society and it was awesome, we had tuxedos, it was like super to remember this. Unfortunately Ramanujan returned to India because he fell ill, he and as I said he died at the age of 32. Despite that fact in his last year of life although he didn't return to good health, he continued to do mind-blowing math, and time is limited so I won't tell you why I got into his mathematics, his maths, so I'll skip that, but let me say the work that Ramanujan did in his last year of life is And just last week at we had our third of a on string theory, black hole physics, and Ramanujan comes up in despite the fact nobody they were supposed to be an So to begin to wrap-up, what We learn a lot of mathematics. People have won Fields Medals for it. Every prize I have won, I that I've won largely something that Ramanujan What else do we learn from Ramanujan? Well, I said that all of you use some of his mathematics This is my friend, P.P. he is an electrical engineering In 2016 he won the IEEE Kirchhoff Award for his work in signal processing. What is signal processing? It's like one of the most important things that we use every day, your cell phones have to receive so that you know how to communicate. The Internet, satellites, so much of the modern world And it turns out that P.P. discovered that in certain frequency wavelengths, a formula of Ramanujan should be used to make So you may have noticed I don't care what Verizon says, your cell phone probably started to sound a whole lot clearer a couple of years ago, and PP is largely responsible for that. He won a prize and if he'll apologize that flipping through Ramanujan's notebooks because someone said, you never know, maybe there will be a And amazingly there was. If that isn't shocking to you, then I can't really surprise you. All right, here I am with He wrote this letter to And let me say these few pages for the last four or five years, and I just can't imagine where I would be in my scientific career if this letter had not been received. It's mind-boggling to me to think about what our state of knowledge if those notebooks had been lost. And in fact it turns out called The Lost Notebook that was scheduled to but a mathematician by the you might wanna go through this box of papers carefully and see if there's And in fact those that included the formulas that you take advantage of every day. I think that's incredible. All right, so what is This title of this lecture He matters for science, he matters for many of the Together with my student, we wrote a little piece describing why we want And here's a little paragraph, I call it the idea of Ramanujan. I think Ramanujan matters because he represents endless curiosity and untapped potential, which to proceed in the sciences. Science usually advances over generations fine-tuning and extending the scope of understanding where from time to time created fireballs like Ramanujan burst onto the scene propelling human thought forward. So to close let me tell you in Silicon Valley at Yuri Milner's house. Yuri Milner is one of the main funders of what's called the Breakthrough Foundation. You may know about them and Jack Ma are also on this foundation, and they've been giving out million dollar prizes to scientists. A few years ago, they started a campaign to send little spaceships to search for extraterrestrial life. You may have seen even Hawking in one of the press conferences. We screened the film that night, people from SETI were there. And after the screening I got up on stage with the famous, rich people, and some of the actors And I don't know what got over me, I probably had too many glasses of wine. (student laughs) I'd actually had dinner with Jill Tarter who was the first director of SETI, she was the Jodie Foster It was really cool, by the way. I think I said something like this, it's really appropriate because you guys are searching for evidence for extraterrestrial life, the world is a big place, shouldn't we be searching our towns and our villages for the And I thought that was but Andrew Serazin, you may know the name, he is the President of the Templeton World Charity He came up to immediately what can you do with a let's find these people. Let's give them scholarships, So we do that, it's now called The Spirit of Ramanujan We've now been doing it for three years and we give scholarships to people who otherwise would not come to the United States We discover people. Here are some of the people Boy, on the right, his At nine he developed I thought I knew pi, this nine-year-old living discovered his own formula for pi. They're out there. This boy in the middle, I found him in Nairobi, Kenya, hanging around the math department. He couldn't even afford to go to college, but it turns out he knew more math than any of the professors teaching at the University of Who is this guy? Now he's studying to get If you don't know ICTP, it's a famous center He skipped college, that we discovered and made it possible, so that he didn't have to do Like (laughs) I said, I'd only wanna know what he would've done otherwise. And so if you know someone out there who could use help, look us You know a nine-year-old who who could make use of a $5000 grant to participate in a summer program but they can't afford it, look us up, and maybe we can help them. And I think Ramanujan All right, thank you very much. (audience applauds) (mumbles) Yes. (mumbles) - Oh, so they're working at (mumbles) Ramanujan's notes or his notebooks. Bruce Berndt has published which include commentary on his formulas. You can visit a website at where they have already You can even in fact read So it's all freely, Amazon.com, you can buy them, they're not, the Springer Publishers, but you go to the library (mumbles) Ah! (mumbles) Yeah, yeah, I was kind There is no such thing I object a little bit too, The Lost Notebook that I'm that was in that box of and then archived in the but it was forgotten. And on a lark in 1976 George traveled to a conference in France and decided to stop in Cambridge just to rifle through Hardy's papers, and there he found about sheets which he called them Lost Notebook, it was really forgotten. The librarian in Cambridge lectured me the first time I got there when I said, here is the The Lost Notebook. No, no, no, here in England, we take our documents very but never mind. (audience laughs) And these 100 pages, it's It turns out these were the 100 pages that Ramanujan scribbled his last ideas on when he was in India and Janaki saw to it that they And that's the stuff what's that George ended up without being at all aware of (mumbles) He didn't really discovered them, he was the first person I mean, if you work in history it's part of your business to travel the world doing archival work. We are not accustomed to So that it was lost is not quite true, that he discovered is not quite true, it was forgotten, it was The librarians at Trinity Nobody, it's better to say to recognize the value of those papers, which is very important. Yes? (mumbles) Okay, several questions there. I think there is some people that we were never meant to understand. I think he was really that was clear. Whether his ideas really came to him as visions from a goddess, who knows? But what was very clear from his work is that he had this gift that he found to be beautiful. That was his hobby, and it's been the work for the rest of us over the last 100 years to figure out how to translate what into a theory that we could develop. That doesn't really answer your questions, but that's how I view it. I don't know how to answer but I'm so grateful that he did. I hope you do recognize that when we started to make the film, it was a small project. For Irons it was just, he wanted to play a Cambridge professor, he played so many other roles, he'd never been a Cambridge professor, he was like a little boy. So if you ever visit Cambridge, there is a river that called the Cam River and he says, we have to film a scene, I have a boat. I'll bring my own boat It was like seeing this kid come out, so I will do it. Those scenes never made the film, but the point I wanted to make is what started out as a very small project ended up being several years of work for two people who ended up really Jeremy actually came to Silicon when we were in the room, The Spirit of Ramanujan He saw that, he goes, I can't believe, I've had the fortune to be, a good fortune to be part of All the Academy Awards and and he's won many, he said And I thought that was beautiful, and if you don't know, he's now an honorary chancellor so his work continue, I think that's really great. (mumbles) Okay, thank you, all right (mumbles) (audience applauds) So if anybody wants to buy maybe you guys have to.