For thousands of years, often plain yet very resilient. Forced to resist wind and weather, For a long time, orthodox medicine suppressed However, in medical thinking, Herbalists, scientists, have joined the search and they're working to make sure Hoopsie Elsanker is a root digger He supplies the oldest Since the early 17th century, it has held the sole licence In all this time, the root digger's profession It is indeed practical, having a car. But it's the only modern element. Everything else is manual labor, And that's... rather special. To find the gentian roots, Above 1,600 meters, It's a one to two-hour hike This is white hellebore. When it it's not in bloom, But it's absolutely toxic. You should not eat it, not dig it out Then your liver goes to sleep, your k Finally you go to sleep yourself -- In Berchtesgaden National Park, Only the gentian digger authorized by a strict The last one ...is the root digger. If he did, he'd dig up his own roots Hoopsie waits for seven years to give the plants enough time This tough job calls for men, of cour ...no boys. Some bits of root stay in the soil. You throw this back, stamp it down -- This is for the root digger. Moderate but regular digging, that's what Hoopsie knows exactly The yellow gentian, which also includes the spotted gentian, Normally, alpine plants to give wind and weather However, the yellow gentian defies storms. It is so bitter, Its strong, bitter substances especially for stomach, Gentian is also used as a general tonic, These days, hard work is out of favor They do everything by machine Which is something I don't need. I do a proper day's work, Hoopsie performs this backbreaking task In the fresh spring water he washes the soil off the gentian roots. He's convinced that this plant is charged People always think it's better elsew But when you look at this, People often ask, what's that. They say, "No way." Some roots reach a length of one meter. Before being processed into schnapps, Chopping releases They can even be absorbed They give the schnapps its flavor. To the chopped roots, only yeast This mixture, the so-called mash, Now, Hoopsie has to stir, Fermentation is different each time. When you think you know exactly how, ...you don't. Temperature, humidity, moon -- It's a purely natural product. In the next door, the distillation begins. The mash finally yields gentian schnapps, When I'm gone, some guy will take my Someone will do it. For the past 400 And I don't think I'm the last. They were all so good that this still Hoopsie started root digging 30 years ago. He wants to continue After a strenuous day, he enjoys the evening with his friends For millennia, people in the Alps have known In the most remote villages, they often had no choice In Heiligenblut, the women and children have gathered that their gardens It's mid-August, flowering season. Anni, would you hand me some St. John Preparations a pre-Christian custom. It all goes back to the fact that All herbs are basically suited as tea You can make essences, tinctures, It also provided a sort of protection Against storms -- my god, So they just imagined it helped. At least seven herbs Apart from that, Many Catholic parishes celebrate the blessing of the herbs. In Heiligenblut, until it was revived by the women The next morning, Assumption day. With their bouquets, the women parade to the Catholic Church For centuries, the Catholic Church tried to suppress Finally, it's only option combining it with the Marian feast According to legend, Maria's grave Then, the villagers take as protection for the house and family. The Edelweiss is surrounded by many myths. An alpine flower under even the most difficult conditions endows invulnerability This was an enduring belief. Since her childhood, Astrid Tonnaer The druggist and hiking guide She's on an exploration tour of Parc Ela, the largest nature park in Switzerland, Here, they speak three languages: Steil' alva, the edelweiss. Or alv' etern -- meaning "eternal whit Or steil' alva, the "white star" in R So lovely, that's luck. Being rare and hard to reach, it is for that very reason However, wild edelweiss Many people have never seen an edelwe They're overwhelmed, it's so mystical An edelweiss can only be fetched I say: "You can sit on them. You'll have them forever, Astrid Tonnaer grew up The alpine pastures of Hauderes remind her of the stories Astrid spent her summers here Those are the famous edelweiss slopes When their calves had diarrhea, The calves ate the edelweiss, It tanned their intestines, Stomach ache flower The druggist's childhood memories For years, she's been studying the healing properties The higher it is, meters above the se Experts found huge differences between edelweiss The municipality of Savognin As is customary in Switzerland, she raises the regional flag In the summer, because of her extraordinary plantation. A field full of edelweiss raised a pioneering achievement. She processes the plants and above all, her individually Edelweiss is an Alpine plant Where the sun blazes all day, or It doesn't perish due to its survival Under a microscope, we see many littl This survival strategy protects us to So we don't dehydrate -- So we age more slowly. The higher the location, the denser and whiter The white points are bracts. The bloom itself females having yellow The mixed form is widely held Astrid Tonnaer takes her handpicked to the laboratory. The best are steeped, After several weeks, The edelweiss extract is then processed creating a cream, Naturally, I tried it out on myself, Of course we had set-backs: We had to try it out several times The tannins and vitamins A and E and are able to strengthen the skin The facial, foot and hand creams have found a loyal clientele Come harvest time, It's midsummer, they must work quickly, for only certain days We must take care the edelweiss And the previous days must be dry. If we bring them in with water, But the main thing is that they're fu Along with her marriage, daughter-in-law Fabienne She chooses the finest The dried symbol of Switzerland Edelweiss is a part of our family. E.g., the table decoration This plant fascinates so many people. For us, it's a tremendous pleasure Then it's no longer just a myth It's great. We're getting inquiries It does make you proud. Dried, the edelweiss keeps its form This tough survivor, the Queen of Alpine Flowers, After the Ice Age, it migrated to Europe, where it now grows at elevations For her creams, Astrid Tonnaer buys extra flowers His field lies above St. Moritz However, this year, his harvest is meager. They simply haven't grown properly. Yes, I see several holes. It's a pity, - It's nature.. Many unknown factors The plant with the survival trick since the beginning of the 21st century. At the Institute for Chemistry of the University of Innsbruck, Professor Hermann Stuppner's team the active substances of medicinal plants. For years, they've been interested Their work is grounded When we began our research Edelweiss is still a protected plant. So research on this plant had to wait until it was cultivatable, large-scal I think we still haven't seen edelwei The reported anti-inflammatory property is now supported by evidence. This is one reason are interested Edelweiss is the epitome of whiteness And especially in Asian culture, Thus, many companies are interested Besides the flower, for the first time, the Innsbruck scientists and they found a substance that may revolutionize Leologin, from the Latin For us, this find was a sensation. And in the future, we can expect very interesting new active substance This hope is well founded. After all, only ten to 15% of all plants Surrounded by Austria's Otztal Alps, lies the lodge Hohenzollern House. It's Christina Valdner's first summer here as innkeeper Christina has asked alternative therapist, to introduce her to the medicinal plants Astrid is a passionate hiker who passes on her herbal expertise Here, she finds a first-aid remedy, There's one. The adenostyle is nifty. If you twist your ankle, Would you like to try? Wad it and you can see the moisture, Then you put it around the sprained f It's very deswelling for sprains and Besides deswelling, Yes, cool, totally pleasant. Isn't it. Nature holds healing power, including one plant in particular. With its intense blue flowers, wolfsbane is not only an eye-catcher Just 0.1 milligrams may prove fatal. Wherever rockslides are quite likely, and in other dangerous locations the blue wolfsbane is often found growing, yet people have always planted it According to folk mythology, Such a big field of wolf's bane What do you do with all the kids? Do you tell the children We tell the tourists how toxic the pl We watch out. Many kids have no idea. but the poison can penetrate the skin Your hand gets numb, at the very leas The blue wolfsbane, was the arsenic of ancient Greek and of the Middle Ages. Its poison was involved and in the Alps, Only the bumblebee gets away unscathed, once it has done its job The name monkshood The symptoms of blue wolf's bane pois numbness in all limbs, And the poisoned feel That's why they used to say, because a person seems to Movements slow down, muscles stiffen, the pulse gets slower, slower, slower The awful thing is: The poisoned -- fully conscious, to th A hellish death, the plant grew from Homoeopathy offers in an extremely diluted form. Aconitum is one in Astrid Sismut's Outdoor Pharmacy. Aconitum, or wolf's bane: It's "big" for panic attacks, For the mountain rescuers, But also for the victims, Applied properly, Long ago, monks knew this too. They used wolfsbane in high dilution against the ailments prevalent febrile infections, From the Middle Ages on, and passing down this knowledge of plants The Benedictine monastery houses the largest For the members of the order, Writing school was naturally required. Monks and nuns were in charge Admont holds a store These theological, and even secret texts and copied by hand. Monasteries have always been with an ongoing effort to give as well as healing -- So naturally they had to study, Experiments and applications in countless manuscripts. The monastery treasure Vermin are invading In a huge effort taking months, to preserve this knowledge This concern is shared upon Seiser Alm, in the heart of the Dolomites In the summer, it is transformed of countless herbs in full bloom. In the early morning, seeking extraordinary organic ingredients Butterwort, ladies mantle, wild thyme, caraway, The fresh flavors keep inspiring him We're going to work all this Seiser Alm is my open pantry. I have it at my doorstep every day. I can help myself, to my heart's deli Franz Mulzer is an alpine chef. He wants to reintroduce the herbs At an elevation of 2,000 meters, he discovers aromas His eye is caught by a little flower It resembles an eye with long lashes The plant is known as eyebright clean air, water, and lots of sunlight. Just what healthy eyes need. My mother steeps it. When her eyes are irritated, It has a soothing effect. Eyebright is mainly used medically. But you can enjoy it too. Born here, Franz has deep roots in the culture He's worked as a chef as Tantris in Munich. When he heard he leased Gassner Schweiger I've never regretted leaving the big It's simply my home turf. That's eyebright decorating and the 15 herb dumplings are sprinkled My idea is to put the taste Soup made from hay, Franz Mulzer serves The recipe is secret, and many a hiker Hay has always played Only one mowing per year is permitted as well as for the hay baths. This century-old tradition sprang of hay mowers. When their work was done, and were amazed Adapting this, the doctor Joseph Clara as a regenerating treatment, Tony is familiar with the benefits, It was fun, as a youngster -- a fine t Everyone liked going up to Seiser Alm There, in the fresh hay, When you had a pretty girl along, Regular inspections Fifty square meters of alpine meadow must include a minimum Among these, Tousled and untidy, but tough. It grows at high elevations. Arnica, whose vernacular name or alpine health giver. Arnica is used for bruises, Neither fertilizer nor herbicides to preserve plant diversity. The mown grass from the mountain where the former has been converted The Hotel Barn stores the raw materials David Kompatscher in the fourth generation. This hay fragrance is typical for our Already when our guests arrive, They already feel as if It's that smell. It comes from a substance The plant actually produces it And for our hay bath, In contact with the skin, it's absorb Hay baths used to be medically prescribed Though hay baths are no longer the healthy relaxation In earlier times, guests were bedded whereas the modern method The hay is watered This generates heat Here you go. The hay is ready. Hay bathing has become One hundred and twenty years ago, the bath attendant simply packed The natural fermentation process Today, a water bed The heat allows the body through the pores. The feet are completely packed in, of The aim is intense sweating. Okay, I'm going to lower you into the So you're floating nicely, While the bather sleeps, In Tree Ferns Valley on the south side Removed from the major streams The landscape is dominated Dealing with bad weather and illness in this remote terrain for centuries, Thus, ancient recipes and myths Analise Aben Koffler She seeks contact with the locals, Seppl, howdy. How are things? The mountain dwellers often take their healing recipes Analise gathers anything she can learn She grew up in the village inn When her father it was on the verge of closing. The region wasn't attracting It was a difficult decision The herbs gave her the solution. One inspiration we actually got I was watching the cow by the house, It had such a gourmet-like expression I really thought: That was really the key point I simply wanted to put ...on people's faces too. Analise followed her inspiration. She converted the village inn now known for its creative herbal cuisine. In summer, she visits using the gathered plants This juniper we call... ...incense of the Alps. In former times, when flus were comin they used this juniper for smoking to kill all the bacteria. We love to use it in our wellness are The aroma, especially, has a calming Juniper, it offers a variety of possible uses. I let nature inspire me. What's on the menu or what dish, Today, these stone pinecones Analise is not just looking Her main focus is a holistic During her childhood, nobody in the village Poor folks' things, they called it. A book about herbs left behind by guests Actually, St. John's wort When you look at it -- ...already point to our nerves. It is used as an antidepressant. Or, as they used to say, Meaning: heavy, dark thoughts. It's a fantastic light-plant. When the days are longest, It doesn't like shade. For ages, this sun plant has been used or even injured internally or externally. From her gathered knowledge, Analise developed what she calls Together with her brother, she runs the hotel It has always fascinated me: But especially: how they stayed healt I want to dig up this ancient knowled To make it tangible for everyone, Look what I've brought today. In the kitchen, they love to experiment. The resiny taste of the stone pine When she opened Analise had to overcome resistance. I was the odd one out, in my own coun What was I thinking -- But as more people reconnect they appreciate our things. Including this ancient way of cooking our way of uniting In the winter To make the herbs suitable it requires Even the timing of its harvest Firstly: I make sure I pluck only on with a lot of warmth. The midday hours are best Also: The buds shouldn't be fully ope for then it has the most strength. When you rub the bud, this red color But in folk medicine, The production of St John's wort oil Find oil, St John's wort, These herbs that grow in summer, they're what we need half a year late In winter, with the fewest hours of s To me, St. John's wort is like vitami Steeped in oil, the herb is exposed In the process, hence the name red oil. The Nature Hotel in Raunak offers nor Lomi Lomi from Hawaii. Here, they apply resources from the Alps. Silver quartzite from a nearby quarry is combined with juniper in a ritual always to the rhythm of nature. We've long moved beyond just herbs. Our basis is the ancient Alpine teach Including power places, I think it's up to our generation to make this old seed sprouts again, Old knowledge in a new interpretation, so that the herbs of the Alps to our modern world. Adriatic, lies the island of Cres. Here, along a 65-kilometer stretch two climate zones meet: As a result, Cres abounds Guarino Kousic knows where We were born here on the island. We got used to working hard as childr It's the only way to survive here. We learned to value and love The farmer is looking for sage. The weedy dwarf shrubs When I started harvesting sage, Look at this crazy old man, That was the reaction On the island, the sage is exposed In the salty sea wind, it can only grow slowly The concentration of the essential oils is all the more intense. The word &quot;sage&quot; contains Guarino has known the beneficial effects Sage has many benefits -- I always tear off a spring of sage It prevents ailments in my mouth He can't use harvesting machines Guarino gathers up to 150 kilos He used to work on a drilling platform until he heard the success stories Up until the Second World War, the Island of Cres A hundred years ago, the barrel maker, He exported the fine extract by ship Guarino found one last bottle in his parents cellar In recent years They are turning back to nature. This has also revived the value of th People are realizing how useful it is Guarino bought machines He chops the sage leaves extra finely. This lets the steam extract more oil It all began with a still for hard liquor. Guarino discovered it I researched, You can never reach perfection... ...but over the years, And I think I've slowly reached the p To obtain one liter of pure oil, Guarino has to distill For me quality is what counts, I try to limit the plucked quantities After all, future generations Guarino doesn't even throw away It is used as field manure Meanwhile, Guarino's sage oil and the island of Cres Six euros is the price that Guarino sells all the way to America, The extract is also in demand locally. On Cres, Guarino's best customer Every two weeks, For a long time, the island was in limbo. Tourism and the premium sage oil The hotels focus their marketing Everywhere daily life People come here to regenerate. Here they can relax, Inna's treatment begins with aromatherapy. The nice thing about my work Our sage is the mother of all oils. All it takes is a tiny quantity A mixture of clay and ground olive stones a natural peeling treatment. The essential oil of the sage It stimulates the blood flow The interest in wellness I think we're just at the beginning. May marks the beginning For many islanders, it's the main season. Among them is Mladen Dragos Slovic. When the sage begins to bloom, he has one month to earn his income Mladen is a professional beekeeper, He owns more than 300 beehives, which he keeps moving to wherever the sage He wants to make the best honey Through careful observation, he knows which flowers You see the bee is carrying yellow po Sage pollen is much finer There is only very little of it. For climatic reasons, and rises day by day I would call myself a honey hunter. On this island Especially in beekeeping. If you're wrong once For Mladen, it's a game of chance You never know exactly One wind, one heavy rain can suddenly And then I have to wait another 365 d The sage plants bloom for only a few days. During this period, It's give-and-take, for without the bees, The bees, in turn, It's a symbiotic relationship under great time pressure. With their proboscis, the bees suck up the nectar Mladen's bees This helps them squeeze They probably Its blossom is constructed like a siphon. Entering and exiting is hard on the bees. This effort shortens After three weeks at the latest, Otherwise, they would die of exhaustion. With great effort, During peak blooming season, With a sage content of more than 80%, the honey from Mladen's bees Sage honey is easy to recognize: Liquid. Anyone who visits Cres Island has truly missed something. Business is good. Mladen's production is sold out What worries him, though, is the future of honey production I hope we will find people The only way to preserve the sage hon It's uncertain whether Mladen's daughter More than 300 different medicinal herbs For centuries, the knowledge of their use so much of it has been lost. Yet some of this lore can still be found in the country's Slagjana Stoyanova on the Balkan Peninsula. For the plants, It's the moment when you feel A new world opens up, You begin a friendship. Slagjana offers exclusively tea mixtures, tinctures, and creams. In Macedonia, This is what distinguishes us, e.g., We are herbal doctors. We love, respect, Slagjana grows 25 herbs This Macedonian expert for herbal medicines. She dreams of a network caring for people's needs. However, she prefers to treat And something against nausea. Plantain. Here's lovage. And mint, definitely. And something for beauty: caci. For the lungs, There, finished. We're hearing more often about herbs, I hope that, in the next decade, herbal medicine will become as popula Slagjana owes her knowledge of herbs to the elderly women She has conducted countless inquiries, and systematically tested their effects. I see it as my personal contribution. To me it's a mission to leave behind Slagjana tests all her herbal products For her recipe books, her husband documents and photographs Slagjana is convinced natural products particularly in economically weak regions. Macedonia needs a national herbal str A campaign to explain So they learn that herbs are benefici For the health and for beauty. She even takes her message Peoples' attitudes are changing. The more they learn about herbs, Her regular appearances have made her books bestsellers. There's been a marked rise In Skopje, as in many cities, hollyhock grows almost unnoticed. Though the plant resembles a rose, Inconspicuous plants between concrete and asphalt These blossoms immediately fascinated Hollyhock is the raw material a never-ending source In nature there are no limits. That's why I use Hollyhock contains medicinal mucilage that is used in a variety while Eva transforms it into art objects. Eva studied art. During the drawing process, she had the idea that paper itself The raw material for most paper However, Eva creates her paper It took me a long time But the craft enthused me Eva must boil the stems for one day to break down the fine fibers The pulp is then mixed In the process, Eva takes advantage Cotton cellulose consists of short fi This gives the paper stability. Hand scooping is one of the oldest forms Long hollyhock fibers make it possible and then model them. Eva's favorite objects The bloom is nature at its loveliest, That's why I want to capture it Eva's works of art have a message: Macedonia's plant life is in danger. To the artist, the resilient Hollyhock that are slowly losing The striving for industrial growth threatened to crowd out The global effort for sustainability in part because it is hardly promoted Eva abducts the herbs from the city, and she finally returns them Delicate sculptures With art I want to inspire people Bulgaria. Here, 300,000 people work with herbs. In the expansive Rhodope mountains, Trigrad is a village People say its inhabitants In Bulgaria, it is known The Trigraders reputed elixir When we drink tea in the morning, My sex life has tripled. They call the tea "viagra of Trigrad" Is that the truth? It's true. When I was born in 1940, That's why I've never been ill The mountain tea Up on the mountain slopes above the town, the locals cultivate a million plants. At the end of June, the harvest begins. Then, everyone During the coming 20 to 25 days, So I wish you good work. And always remember: Harvesting mountain tea isn't just a job. For the women, it's a ritual. We stick together through thick and t What we tell here stays here. The tea harvest supplementing their meager pensions. Svetlana and the other villagers The mountain tea when its active substances You count the blossoms: You pluck when there are five blossom What began as a bit of extra income I'm pleased that young people are inv It gives hope and With our high unemployment, The workday begins at 9:00 AM It lasts until late in the evening, by which time the women have harvested Just a few years ago, The existence of plantations to the efforts It all began to study the wild herbs in the Rhodopes. The Rhodopes are a mountain range Some of the plants grow nowhere else. The mountain tea and prefers a dry environment It grows wild only in the mountains This mountain tea is a sensitive orga Here it's protected On these slopes, ...that are unsuitable The mountain tea is perfectly adapted Its hairy exterior In the winter, Michaela has performed numerous tests. The substances in the mountain tea and are said to help The onlt thing her research failed of the tea's These plants are revered Plants that supposedly cure all ailme This gave rise to many legends ...that aren't all true. But it started a race, It's even harvested unripe Michaela's hope rested she gathered in the mountains. In her garden laboratory, she examined their properties until the plants were so resilient My aim in protecting the mountain tea ...that species preservation doesn't Michaela. Come see if we can take the plant out In this project, The new breed enables them in their gardens, or in the field. We nearly lost the mountain tea forev I hope I was able to help restore Michaela's dream has come true. Each year, the Trigraders send four tons Demand is rising. The buyers are pharmaceutical companies but there are also private customers Even the Japanese Despite all the scientific evidence, many Trigraders persist A successful marketing strategy, perhaps. The Balkans are considered High unemployment has caused depopulation Yet there are people Nikola Nikolov is a teacher in the Bulgarian Balkan Mountains. With his pupils, This work in our school garden ...about the plants that grow here. Eventually they should One herb is particularly dear to Nikola: Dyer's madder. Its roots make it so valuable. Madder's botanical name is All plants used as dyes Rubia: tinting red. To obtain the Dyer's madder dye, In former times, was used throughout Europe Roman uniforms and Turkish headwear With the discovery in the late 1900s, the cultivation of Dyer's madder Even in Chiprovtsi, although for centuries it had been used Nikola is trying to revive the memory Meanwhile, my pupils know about plant I hope that something sticks Chiprovtsi was once The villagers mainly produced carpets. The herbal dyes made each rug unique Nikola's work with his pupils His dyes have revived an old trade. As a youngster, She recently took up her craft again. There used to be a loom in every house until the market failed The work was no longer profitable. It takes Svetlana one month None of the youngsters The natural dyes, though, Natural dyes are soft, The chemical dyes produce With natural dyes the colors are pale And the tints usually vary. That's what's lovely about them. This sensibility for sustainable, naturally produced products from Bulgaria For Nikola, Dyer's madder From seed companies in Germany, he's ordered the seeds of other dye plants It makes me sad Man doesn't value what he owns. ...does he realize the value. His wife, Panca, A botanical manual about the dye plants of Chiprovtsi. Everyone should do a special deed in I want to bring back the lost plants. Nikola's production He's already planning to add more fields My dream is for Chiprovtsi Full of young people. The fact that the Balkan countries also has its advantages. The countryside is free of pollutants, and the Mediterranean climate Thus, the trade with medicinal herbs From the small Macedonian town that gives cancer sufferers new hope. The line between magic potion as so often, a fine one. Some call it Wonder Juice Varumin provides a livelihood It all began with this man, The certified agricultural engineer claims and former Croatian President Tudjman For many villagers, Here in the Ograzden mountains, I know the soils precisely, The quality of the herbs Over many years, Georgiev has charted At an elevation of 1,400 meters, he found the plants In our society, we underestimate That's why we must prove And that the way to health In these higher regions, The plant is an essential ingredient Before Varumin they have to be dried for several weeks. Supposedly, 35,000 customers Varumin consists of more than 30 herb Part of the herbs The other herbs help the patient ...to noticeably regenerate Ivan Georgiev claims he cured Afterward, he began to experiment One must follow the logic found in na Then you know how to use The ingredients ...benefit a specific organ in the bo A three-month course of treatment Its effectiveness so far remains unproven. June 24th, the day when Bulgarians For this occasion, Ralis Sakaiova Joy is the most natural emotion. Feeling the warmth of sun rays later. ...is something wonderful. To Bulgarians, St. John's Day They say the sun has nearly reached The girls spent the previous evening Now, they're waiting Today the herbs' power is the stronge We can draw from it, The wealth of wild herbs holds great potential Farmers, biologists, and wild plant experts Future wealth from herbs from the Balkans will depend My wish is that people reflect on the For that is our tradition, and should In the swampy meadows of tropical Kerala, The inconspicuous herb is said to improve In India, gathering herbs to gain a bit of extra income. Reports that Brahmi might be effective has lifted demand. This prompted Karan's family You plant a bit, it spreads by itself When children are ill, you crush brah Brahmi makes ill children healthy, Brahmi makes them big and strong, Karan sells his Brahmi harvest From Kerala's heartland mountains that many Indians The boss In his artisanal production, Abdul Jabbar Gurukkal into Ayurvedic medicines. Ayurveda means the science of life. It was long forbidden yet some small producers We produce 300 different medicines. For ailments that are easy, hard, Some ailments so far cannot be cured. But Ayurvedic medicine knows methods Even for ailments said to be incurabl They just haven't been discovered. Brahmi is used Ten kilos of Brahmi That is a good income Such herbs as the Asiatic pennywort In the freshly pressed juice, The heart of the artisanal operation Together with clarified butter, the Brahmi juice is added to an oil The herbal mixture then simmers Today, interest in Ayurveda This boosts demand for Ayurvedic medi Most medicines are mixed including plants With his scales, We use dried ginger, bark of Amla, the sour, bitter Indian goosebe Here we store hundreds of plants. We use the roots -- the most vital par Chyawanprash consists of 36 ingredients. The medicine is said and fortify the mind and vitality. The demand for Ayurvedic salves raising demand for the herbs as well. In India, with a population the rural population is highly reliant However, and only a few Businessmen like Abdul Jabbar It's getting hard to find wild herbs. Everywhere forests are being cut, While more people are gathering them. Herbs used to grow everywhere, Abdul Jabbar's family the family business Against spinal disc pain, an oil mixed with herbal extracts The treatment is meant to not only but to mainly affect the flow of energy. The clinic is run Shirodhara treatment involves pouring oil for 20 minutes. Five thousand years old, Ayurveda is a holistic medicine and spirit together. The pulse tells us the patient's ailm Does it hop like a frog, creep like a Or does the pulse fly like a bird? Just by feeling the pulse, Only, of course, due to my experience The oil for this treatment, We use this therapy for head injuries But it also helps relieve tension. Which herbs we put in the oil But the procedure is always the same. Nadia Mansoor takes care The doctor first detects the doshas, the elements Air governs movement, fire and water and the element earth If someone doesn't feel well, Every person So for the same ailment in different I must know his doshas The patient gets the formulation directly Some of the ingredients grow only in the mountains In the state of Himachal Pradesh, lies the village of Batar. What the few villagers they find at a small village shop. It is run by Jindu Ram. Even with health problems, the villagers turn Jindu Ram is a substitute A neighbor has come with stomach pain. Until 20 years ago, When he died, so the shop owner decided to get training Clinics or even simple health station It's difficult for the villagers We used to have a herbal healer Today they are getting scarce. To treat stomach problems, Jindu Ram concocts He uses only tiny amounts. Many of the local wild plants Finding them in the jungle For example, this herb: They plucked it all, Valerian has a stimulating depending on the dosage. In India, it's a panacea, one that is becoming The neighbor is to take the mixture Without herbal medicine, these villagers Jindu Ram regularly hikes In the forests and on the alpine meadows, gathering herbs is strictly regulated Not everyone respects this. There's a thriving black market After two hours, At 3,500 meters, the Forestry Authority a rare feature in the mountains Here he finds kutki, the Indian gentian. Formerly prescribed for leprosy, today, its extremely bitter roots In the herb garden, we also find Brahmi, named after Brahma, Jindu Ram knows three varieties We use this for open wounds, I dry the brahmi Meenki brahmi is a type The best and most effective brahmi You dissolve it in milk A growing number of medicinal herbs like Bankakri, the Himalayan Mayapple but is also highly toxic If this keeps up, the herbs We still find a few herbs in gardens But I think it's going to stop. It's a loss for the people What shall I do with so few herbs? Must I stop soon? To many, this is just grass. But people with knowledge Tamil Nadu, in the south of India, is the land of rice paddies, Since ancient times, people in India and essences from herbs. In the temples, and sacrifice holy basil to them. The secret of this herb during the Harappan civilization. A member of the legume family, this bushy plant thrives in the hot Though related to beans and lentils, It is valuable because of the dye The ancient Greeks called it indican, From this, This artisan operation Today, Balamanikam's family For many years we made our indigo Then companies abroad began using it That boosted demand enormously. The growing demand for natural products It takes only ten grams of indigo When the cloth emerges The air then oxidizes the indigo, and within seconds, Indigo plants contain indica, First, the herb is soaked for 18 hours. Fermentation converts the indican The water is then run into another tank. The workers toil away. For a full hour, This contact with air is what oxidizes The water is non-toxic The indigo has settled to the basin floor and can be gathered The workers must first heat the dye, You need two tons of herb They say indigo was more valuable tha Then synthetic indigo dye was invente The market for natural indigo blue But our family believed in indigo and Today we're confident It takes the indigo cakes Then they can be sold. Indian cuisine is, Only a few fresh herbs are used, In the south of India, the markets naturally offer Freshly fried in oil, they are an essential ingredient Another plant The plant belongs Its versatility is almost unsurpassed. In India, vetiver is not only used it also flavors foods. By stabilizing the soil, To determine the ideal time for harvest, Only they are processed, Formerly, vetiver roots Their aroma keeps mosquitoes away. Indira Sathyan and her friend Divya With cold water, vetiver syrup Soap with vetiver oil smells lovely. From vetiver we fashion fragrant fans With vetiver shoes, foot problems are With her mats, Today, most Indian vetiver is used A holy day in Mysore. In southern India's city marigolds and jasmine flowers They are being prepared His annual festival is celebrated In Mysore, in his honor. Arjun Ranga has 300 employees. However, their boss To make incense, we use a whole host of Indian herbs, We also have which we use the extracts of Founded in 1950, for stick incense. Arjun Ranga runs the family business In Mysore and the surrounding area, they produce nearly 22 million per day. Our first successful brand This was in 1952, and we've just done adding more However, the core of the fragrance remains It's 1952, so the fragrance The bamboo comes The sticks are rolled in 25,000 households Today, Arjun exports them Post the year 2000, there's been a sudden increase With the advent of Ayurveda, incense sticks, as they're called in India, have become an instant connection You light an incense stick, Arjun's sticks burn on house altars Some Indians also attribute The foothills of the Indian Himalayas. In the catchment area At around 9:00, among whom is Buddhi Singh. Buddhi Singh runs a small shoe shop. In the summer, it's run by his wife, while Buddhi Singh attends to a business Now there are few herbs. Then I'll sell where the prices are b At the markets in Amritsar In two, three weeks business will pic Buddhi Singh has rented a car for the day. He's on the road of Himachal Pradesh, one of the species' Three and a half thousand eight hundred of which Buddhi Singh deals in wild herbs Even in the most remote hamlets, Sishram doesn't gather himself. He buys for Buddhi Singh from the surrounding forests. In villages like this, gathering wild herbs for the families. The Forestry Authority issues licenses. An annual 2,500 tonnes of medicinal plants in this part of Himachal Pradesh alone. It's worth nearly two million euros. The price depends on the quality. Buddhi Singh checks the herbs, When dried, many plants look similar, Some of them can be poisonous. It's vital This part of the Himalaya has 165 pla But only nine or ten varieties I buy them in mountain villages like The herbs I deal in are helpful They are good for gastritis and gas. Another is even said to heal cancer. The most effective cannot be had They are largely gathered illegally The most expensive herbs you won't fi Even if you grew those high-mountain ...medically they would be less usefu The wild herbs higher up In India, 130 medicinal herbs More than half of these plants Barely 20 species are cultivated. In the mountains, tended by his sons. This merchant knows that wild herbs for herbal medicine forever. The future lies in their cultivation. Snakeroot, for example, It's also called as serpentine wood. It stimulates the appetite The family garden Due to overharvesting in the wild, it is now an endangered species If I couldn't sell it, They'd always stay healthy. Of course the herb has fine market va The market for Indian valerian is exc It also loosens the soil, makes it fe Valerian is versatile and valuable. You must let it grow for 3 to 4 years The roots should look like this! Whether gathered wild or cultivated, in the Indian mountains. Through such merchants as Buddhi Singh, Founded during Mughal rule at the heart of Delhi's Old Town, Khari Baoli is Asia's biggest market The walk to his office takes Akeel Galodia This leads to an inner courtyard. This is the heart For 130 years, the Galodia family He does his business by telephone. Akeel is a wholesale merchant. His inventory includes with total annual sales His customers Manufacturers of medicines to deliver premium quality. The old people who knew wild jungle h The young don't know herbs That's why with some plants supply is It is a world all its own. There are no walk-in customers. Those entering the courtyard or they serve the business, who makes the merchants' tea. Indian gentian...costs 15 euros per k Indian medicinal plant sales Akeel's customers primarily trade This is Indian valerian, It helps stop hair loss. You boil it in oil, massage the oil That's why the herb's in such demand. The annual growth rate is currently 20% and increasing. Day by day, Ayurveda's popularity is 10 years ago the herbs we sold Today herbs of poorer quality cost mo Elsewhere, of a few select medicinal herbs. Tulsi, holy basil, helps against many ailments. It is said to be effective as well as increasing longevity. The harvest is already sold. It goes to Bangalore, to the world's biggest factory The producer's warehouse of basic ingredients for its medicines, the plant extracts of 166 different herbs. Now, how is it progressing so far? Biochemist Shyam Ramakrishnan Correct. Under his supervision, 200 scientists analyze testing them What is the status of these products? They're trying -We are getting 300 plant materials. Woodfordia fruticosa, or the Flamethrower Bush, for example, An extract of its flowers Our attempt has always been We do the clinical trials, and we look at molecular biology. What we are doing and marrying them Ten million pills per day translates In more than 90 countries, doctors prescribe Ayurvedic medicines The key market is India. For this market, a few years ago, the company added As the nose of the company, Her current project We target the growing (upper) middle These days, they don't have time The products contain such as neem, tulsi, and aloe vera. Now the growing trend is also toward That's what consumers like, and it's a growing trend Himalaya's philosophy through herbal health care and herbals. That is where our forte lies. We research herbals We look at herbals Herbs are also the basis Since the Chinese annexed Tibet, this country's more is being transmitted primarily in India. In the Dhauladhar mountains the seat After fleeing from the Chinese, bringing with him 11,000 people, It's like no other place in the world. McLeod Ganj is a refuge For this reason, primarily young Tibetans of the Dalai Lama. Tenzin Somo and her friends to study Tibetan medicine. They will be staying for six years. In Tibetan science, Buddhist philosop Tibetan medicine is a valuable tradit ...not only Tibetans, I hope to contribute a bit I want to prove myself capable Tenzin Somo is 23 years old One hundred and twenty-five at the Men-Tsee-Khang Institute Founded in the eighth century, it combines elements of Indian Ayurvedic, One of the key subjects is herbalism. The exams are approaching. A clinic is attached to Men-Tsee-Khang. The institute also produces At the end of their studies, up-and-coming doctors like Tenzin Somo some with up to 32 ingredients. They must know how these are made Although a small number Tibetan healing is based, The seminal text on Tibetan medicine, The Four Tantras, from the 8th centur &quot;There is no substance on earth So once its effect has been identifie That's why herbs are so important to Their training high into the mountains. One thousand five hundred meters At the tree line, we find the greatest diversity The students learn at what time of year reach their peak. Generally speaking, and the leaves and flowers in summer. By the end of their studies, the students must be able to identify and know their effects. This herb is a sort of forget-me-not. When I'm asked what ailments I know it helps Except for the root, leaf, flower, and stem. When they pluck herbs, the students recite the mantra requesting him to permanently heal The students were given four hours to look at the herbs This is followed by Tenzin will soon be working as a doctor. The rural population especially a medicine based on herbs. These students will only be able if India can manage to preserve Lake Titicaca in western Bolivia, According to local legend, it was the birthplace A medicine man from the nearby Andes, a Kallawaya, and his wife They have brought herbs, The region Residents in need of medicine Hardly anyone has studied the herbs of South America as extensively Local herbalists like Juan Serota and tested household remedies, This plant, What is it good for? has antiseptic properties. And how do you prepare it? You steep it for 8--10 minutes. Within a week, The number of Bolivians like Juan with this knowledge Juan learned almost everything Key is: being connected to Only the locals know where plants ...how they work, Which herbs are best for stomach pain For complicated ailments, though, Blessings and sacrifices In many traditional medical systems, The patient must understand Here, this "self-healing" is essentia Without ritual, many herbs wouldn't w So it's important to document this as ...and pass it on to other generation The Kallawaya believe that the burning The smoke from burning herbs Traditionally, The kallawaya have a very long tradit They're the best-known herbal healers They tour the entire region: So when someone is sick, These itinerant healers The muna, for example, and helps with digestive problems. This is muna. Notice the smell. Smells good! In other regions, munas look differen How often can it be taken? Daily? Sure. It's not chemical, It's hard to isolate medicine from pl If we isolate the main substance, ...or it's toxic, What makes natural medicine so import While herbs remain the primary element of medical care the continent's medicinal plants The hunt leads their purveyors The south of Peru is known and desert-like landscape. Hours ago, Jose Ingamani In the wilderness of the Andean foothills, For the next few days, We always bring our own water. From o In this area we're going to harvest, ...according to a certain procedure. A rather plain plant The plant usually grows near big cactuses. Jose and his people They need the roots. It takes seven years for a rhatany Just pulling them out would, therefore, Jose follows a routine. This is the root. Here we have a very young shoot. This seed -- all we do is put it in. Then cover it with dirt. Finished. We must take care not to harm it Finally we cover Protected from the burning sun, it ca Rhatany cannot be cultivated. That's why the buyer of the roots, hired botanist Fatima Casares to design From clearly specified plots, while precisely documenting In Peru, rhatany was endangered. For each harvested plant, to yield at least two growing plants. This is how we achieve sustainability Jose and his family know if they keep sowing new seeds. The anti-bacterial effect has long been known in southern Peru. We also use rhatany in the village, If someone is ill, we give him some, The working days After two weeks, the root gatherers returned Out of 3000 villagers, the Ingamanis are the only ones The cleaning and drying is also a group effort. For us the rhatany harvest It pays the expenses of my family, I have 10 children. We all work together. For Jose and his family, the rhatany project They deliver directly to the buyer The demand is considerable. The Ingamanis ship a ton per year in southern Germany. The Chucky Bamba Harvest project of sustainably gathered roots. Rhatany contains a reddish, reducing oral inflammation It is a tested ingredient In this way, healing substances find their way around the world. Buenos Aires, the capital of Argentina, bears a strong imprint Much here comes from Europe, even such kitchen herbs The special lure of Pura Tierra is ingredients Ingredients are unknown With this culinary concept, star chef Martin Molteni regularly ranks A restaurant is the place where Cooking is a craft of discovery, Whether I find a new herb, ...it's a journey of discovery. Today, he is experimenting a false shamrock, Of the oxalis, I use the leaves and s Just as the indigenous peoples used t ...when they cooked them on the groun In many parts of Patagonia, Martin candies the tender meat, refining it and indigenous tomatoes. From the leaves of the sorrel, which, along with the flowers, For his recipes, Martin seeks out herbs but which have been ignored He discovers these specialties Then, he gets his wholesalers This is nice. Yes, and check out this oxalis. I'll try it and come back for more. The roots of the almond kai, are known to contain much starch. The Mapuche indios used these rhizome Legend has it that a condor as she went out His claws injured Armand Chi, and in each spot an herb with flecked flowers grew. These now enhance Martin's menu. Everything in my dishes is an ingredi Each ingredient has a function -- maki This is a quinoa salad with indigenou From the amancay: the roots and the f Martin's successful style of cooking of the culinary traditions Misiones Province in northern Argentina Here, the Guarani tribe Isabel Aquino is one of them. Around her house grow and medicinal plants, This is an ambay tree, It cleanses everything The tree gives me much energy and hea It connects me with Mother Earth, After plucking, I thank the plant And I thank the sun. The Guarani have no word for ailment. They refer to conditions that can be influenced From ambi leaves, Isabel makes a tincture All the plants help us get better. This preparation has been around My mother, my aunts, the neighbors... ...put herbs in liquor Isabel uses herbs to treat people Gabriela has blood pressure problems for which she has no explanation. Isabel always begins a treatment I pass the plants and smoke ...where in the organism Then across here... ...to connect Gabriela with the plant ...that she herself chooses Gabriela has chosen stevia, It dilates the blood vessels Her dose is the exact amount We now thank the herbs that accompany Thank you for your confidence. This land used to be a gem mine. After the mine closed 25 years ago, property was cheap, The new owners helped each other Later, they built a school Vegetables, lettuce and herbs. Isabelle taught her neighbors A small, vibrant community evolved. Betty and Munich cultivating rare medicinal plants Actually, a great deal more is involved. Working with Isabel, and the herbs helped Betty get To me Isa is a brilliant teacher. In a way, when I met her I got my lif She's my teacher, my therapist, my id Finding Isa made me find my roots, Just as I was helped, we want to pass But it's work. To Isabel, healing means allowing others Isabel's birthplace is located famous for its waterfalls. The Guarani populated this area when the Argentine government in the park. Each visit We moved away, 8 kilometers from the They said we couldn't stay. But I remember swimming here, We were like a big family, with the p In her work as an herbal healer, Isabel in the natural Paradise by the Iguazu. What I have learned, ...especially of the plants -- But I believe, ...that life is given for other life. Preserving an age-old knowledge of herbs, it's an ongoing challenge. The core of Rainer Bussmann's He regularly visits the markets for he knows things can become dangerous for patients. For example, when two herbs look Horsetail is used for kidney ailments Ephedra is a stimulant, and for uteru Now here in La Paz The big problem is: Men take horsetai So if you take ephedra for the prosta You can see here: And the horsetail falls apart easier. To prevent these mistakes, Bussmann and his Bolivian colleagues Their herb manual, published in collaboration is distributed free of charge. Herbs also play an important role when Bolivians celebrate in honor of Mother Earth. In many places around the country, Blessings are performed The gifts are normally different herb Mother Earth likes sweets. The main gift is a llama -- either a l Because the llama is traditionally So you give Mother Earth People ask the Pachamama but also for a protective hand The blessing is always with alcohol, By afternoon, those in late need of a Next problem: By afternoon, So come in the morning and you have After the arrival Catholic missionaries with the Virgin Mary. Yet many of the traditional Pachamama In the north of Argentina, serve as a reminder of the days strove to convert the Guarani In the masonry, to the flowers of the murty plant. The monks got the herb from the Guarani, Marty flourishes where we find the greatest acreage The demand is huge. Ninety Percent of Argentines with a cup of Marty Roberto Seminyak celebrates For my family, it's very important: Having these moments to sit down, Taking this time to drink mate, Mate's important, the tea unites us. Roberto is a Marty producer. He grows the evergreen shrubs His daughter Gabriela joins him Marty is a sensitive plant requiring It needs four years The taste is in the leaves For best aroma, the twig can't be gra Like we see here. The team bundles the Marty In the field, Roberto employs a total Twice a day, they bring their harvest The diesel engine from the 1920s still drives all the machines including the conveyor belts to the drying drum. In minutes, the heat draws the moisture For me this machine is life, it's pas It's years of effort, From this stage on, Roberto's processing He uses the traditional barbacoa method. Here, the tea is smoked over a eucalyptus wood fire. Once the fire is burning properly, we close the two openings In the drying house, the temperature Tati is Roberto's stalker. His job is to churn He has to keep checking the flow of heat The smoking process Tea drinkers That wasn't always the case. Right after the turn of the millennium, Prices fell drastically. For the smaller Marty farmers, it was no longer worth I have been working But as time passed, in 2006... ...to my disappointment, It wasn't profitable. For several years, Roberto Finally, the regional Marty farmers at the initiative They founded a cooperative. If one of us suffers damage ...that person can use So there's a spirit of cooperation, We've united to gain strength and a v Unity makes the difference. The men in the co-op have been able and the Barber Qua T has restored to them and their families. Trujillo in northern Peru is one Since early times, many trade routes Ethnobiologist Rainer Bussmann exploring the huge range Initially, we took inventory of all t We came home with more than That's extreme -- in Germany, Here there's 20% of that number, The diversity is incredible and In his botanical field research, Rainer Bussmann Over the years, he's built up In Northern Peru, and her herb trader help him categorize After decades, we still This is pucho, right? In Chiclayo they called it pucho. This is called espingo! Julio Calderon is an herbal healer. Unlike the Kallawaya, the healers in Peru Julia lives Her husband runs a small restaurant there. However, this brew, isn't on his menu. This is a herbal decoction They come from the Holy Lakes I use this to cleanse people who are, Healers like Julia, who inherited worked not only with herbs but also use a collection of objects such as shells and perfumes We healers must protect ourselves That's what this dagger is for. This is a brew containing liquor. It's made from more than 50 herbs. It's very good -- a marvelous thing. This alone makes some people feel bet Carlos is often troubled by nightmares, An acquaintance recommended With her incantations, Julia and other healers for assistance. In the cigarette smoke, she believes she has discovered Take heed. Yes, sometimes. Julia finishes You mustn't take anything from this w Not even a caramel. Never let her touch your hair. It makes me happy and contented When they're in good spirits. At home, in their family, and overall For her patience, Julia is a doctor, They believe in her herbal magic. Patagonia, shared by Argentina and Chile The steppe-like landscape seems barren, but the diversity of its plant life For more than 30 years, has studied the One herb has particularly impressed her. It flourishes even in the snow. Paramela is unusually robust. After a volcanic eruption in Chile, Totally covered, it emerged from the To me, it's a very symbolic plant, Because of its strength. As if they believe that whatever resists The people around the town of Ischgl In her laboratory at the local university, Silvia is investigating This fragrance is very pleasant, Although I've distilled it 100s of ti No one knows Paramila better than Sylvia. She has been working with the herb Among other basic facts, Silvia found that the paramila Later, in her doctoral paramila research, she discovered, among its more an unknown molecule. It is now internationally known, When you discover a new molecule, I chose this place here, Esquel, The ending &quot;enona&quot; The pleasing fragrance caught the attention who used the herb Within no time, many Patagonian slopes and their paramila populations For this reason, are working that won't endanger Cultivation isn't easy. The young plants, in particular, Paramela has great potential, but pla We need to learn this now. So we'll b Every few weeks, Sylvia takes La Cheetah, She gets off the narrow gauge railway There, her friend Patricia sells herbs. Patricia's tribe, the Mapuche, whose name in English means lift me up. Many people don't know paramela, Why? The old say, paramela is a strong aph That's why guys always come and ask: I smile because I understand what he With its wide range of effects, They will accompany Sylvia Patagonia is magic. I have a Patagonia is full of mystery. As for science, its herbs hold much July in Provence is the peak In the Northwest near Sorgues, lies one The valleys are alive It is quiet only One wheel turns forward, It's a quick repair. I called my husband. There he comes. The lavender farmer took over when her parents retired. At my first job, None of this stuff. It's good he's around, We never have any time. We work eleven months, Then we harvest for one month. We have no choice. Only true lavender from select regions a certificate of quality. The plant itself doesn't create for human pleasure, however. The plant makes essential oil due to So it produces essential oil to survi On 110 acres, Sylvie Bourgeois exclusively grows Her father did mixed agriculture Today, My parents had to specialize to survi Cattle was too labor-intensive, The distillery of 1947 is one Steam extracts the lavender essence Today, it's time Nearly three-quarters consists of lavender, across between fine lavender True lavender has one single stalk Lavandin consists of three stalks a big stem with a very big flower The lavandin flowers contain camphor Their oil is in demand When distilled, lavandin produces up to six times The oil of fine lavender It is a basic ingredient of the pharmaceutical It takes about 150 kilos of the plant to produce one kilo For the producer, Liz fetches EUR180, The leached lavender straw provides fuel Today, there are about 20 different Each one has its benefits. I prefer true lavender, There's a reason why perfumers use it The trade with the purple blossom began Monastery dispensaries, though, had been using its healing powers The region has long been known In Luberon, the Lourmarin Castle Gardens today still preserve the ancient knowledge Some 250 plants cultivated here are used In addition, they provide pigments During the First World War, for example, with alizarin The plant actually develops the sap Other plants produce agents or to fend off insects. In Provence, also produce deliciously aromatic field Though they are often disdained as weeds. Patrick Jenney, a beekeeper near Avignon, When you visit someone, you ring the I blow smoke into the combs Patrick Jenney keeps 300 beehives Chestnut trees in the seven, rosemary in Narbonne. His most aromatic honey came about To bees, there are no weeds -- just he This is a spring mixture. ...hairy canary clover, ...southern plants that grow around h Forty thousand workers suck I steal their reserves. They've worked all spring to store it I'm a honey thief. Four tons of honey For one leader, a colony of bees puts These are the fruity honeys They don't know the plants, Meadow herbs give the honey A beekeeper needs an inquiring mind to figure out We taste the honey, We see which plants are in bloom This is hare's ear, Its honey has a peculiarity: Unfortunately that note A funny thing: Everyone knew it without knowing the But when I let people taste the honey Suddenly its name was everywhere: In early summer, some 150 nectar-bearing flowers unfurl This is pitch trefoil, Yes, really: asphalt. It's a strong s Everyone knows the smell from somewhe The "asphalt" comes from transformati Fortunately it's not in the taste, which is actually fruity. More than 20 years ago, this beekeeper from Limoges settled here Now, not even a quarter of them are left. This used to be an apricot orchard, For 10 years, the field has been unte Nature has taken it back. For the bees it's a good deal. Although Provence is known particularly today, makes a living in this sector. More than 2,000 crop plants grow here, more than in any other region Inextricably linked with Southern France One billion dollars perfume industry in the hinterland of the Cote d'Azur. It, too, owes its success to the climate, which allows the fragrant ingredients Lenny or the nose's is what the French affectionately call people She is one My approach to the world Before I see or touch something, I sm It's from the animal domain: It's something very instinctive. The 44-year-old creates The owners of an exclusive guesthouse They want a composition This is the old oil mill. I love the smell of the stones. Delphine Thierry captures It's a mineral place, ...because there is much stone How does one create Which plants dominate? This research forms the basis Nature is where Around the Mont Alban fortress in Nice, there are many This is a mastix shrub, On one hand, it's peppery, Mastix has many facets. Plants growing in such dry places ...have a vigor, something very power They have their feet in these rocks, They truly want to be here. During her training at the renowned Delphine Thierry learned not only to distinguish but to name them as well. The Cote d'Azur smells of... ...the sea, and hot winds ...gathering the fragrance of plants All mixed with the fragrance of thyme In her studio, Delphine works Drawing on a repertoire of hundreds she sets subtle accents. Nobody wants to smell The perfumer's work is ...mixed with other fragrance aspects Delphine prefers pure natural materials that unfold their effects Sage essence, its effervescent molecu Whereas sage paste plays in the heart So it's interesting to combine the tw Most of her creations develop A room fragrance presents Delphine It must be extremely subtle. So it won't bother Everyone has their own taste. Creating a fragrance everyone likes Delphine's fine perfume is finished. She presents it as part of an object. The client smells it for the first time. And the perfume is in there? May I? I can say the fragrance reminds me This perfume also has Those notes rising from very dry soil An exquisite object for which the client has paid In Provence, From spring until the peak of summer, it exposes plants and animals The heat gradually paralyzes nature, forcing some animals up Early morning near Sisteron Shepherd Michelle Pallister is trying For generations, the Pallisters have driven their sheep up My grandfather already Each family has its own way No later than June, the shepherds are ready Their sheep drive up into the mountains. By then, the valley meadows are parched and the sheep I started when I was 18. My father had 300 sheep. The herds have grown substantially. That's why We've got to move on. If we rest for more than 10 minutes, A herd this size grazes off 2.5 acres The sheep roam following the plant growth. This is quality clover, full of prote Birdsfoot trefoil is an enormous sour The energy is stored in the small see Our animals are thus nourished We go up in several stages. In May the valley is already too hot, The flowers must be in bloom Sophie Chatelet, an herbalist from Nice, At an elevation of 2,000 meters, she finds wild herbs This herb is full of vitamins. Almost all the plants ...sage, viper's bugloss, The Provence has 80% of the French fl It's the perfect place This native of Brittany has settled where she finds for her wellness products. Actually it's chicory. It tastes bitter The sheep fortify themselves Then, it will be time It has both a seasonal and a magic as ...all these sheep traversing the mou There's something joyfully festive Human beings have been doing it For the animals, it's an eight-hour trek One practical side effect is that it gives Michelle the opportunity We count 1599. Plus the shepherd makes 1600. Michelle's lambs bear Fragrant mountaineers make their meat, Stinging nettle is a fine plant, The herb is short, But if you look, The sheep have come at the right time A few hundred meters lower down the largest lavender-growing area The scented herb keeping more than 12,000 people employed, but their livelihood is being threatened Lavender monoculture farming The field is in full bloom Yet its yield is reduced It's the work of the leafhopper. Here, there are still four. Over there you see: ...wasting away. Some years, farmer Gerard Blanc loses The symptoms: you have shorter flower Dead parts. Here: more than dead. The leafhopper, a miniature cicada, During its meals, it transmits a bacterium The plant starves from the inside. It's a true pest. For us it's dramati In this climate, with the sun and hea ...on this sloping terrain full of ro If we don't do the perfume plant, If I look at these plants too long, They really aren't pretty, it's a pit Each summer, Barely two millimeters long, the bug has knocked France as the world's top producer. The lavender disease has been known but monoculture has depleted the soil The leafhopper has an accomplice, too, the heat. The hotter and drier it gets, The epidemic began in 2005 after it had hardly rained We're among the first Because few plants can withstand... ...temperatures above Nature is stronger than us. It's a total disaster. At the still, In five years, France's lavender oil production This has hit small family operations The farmers have been hoping for the discovery Meanwhile, Gerard Blanc is taking part by planting wheat to provide shade. Lavender grown in the shade than when it grows in the blazing sun. Wheat makes the soil greener. The soil heats up less, and the leafh The height is also a physical barrier It stops the leafhopper, which flies It's a lot of extra work, That's the Provence That's the ambiguity of the landscape ...magnificent and hard, all at once. So far, each measure against the leafhopper Unless a remedy is found, the characteristic face of Provence While the indigenous flora is threatened, the European market for natural cosmetics Second only to Germany, France is a top European market Back in Nice, the yield from the sheep drive. Stored in her studio, she has more than 100 twigs, from the hinterland of Nice. Each variety gently dried. This is nettle, it stings. Sage has a bluish sheen. The properti ...up to the last moment. Sophie Chatelet has worked with herbs ever since her news agency job Each day was encounter-based. There were murderous meetings It drove me totally crazy. That's why I'm so tuned in to how to return to the earth, for new r to regain stability and well-being, I could well use some of that now. After gaining her medicinal herbs diploma, and soon received She finds her best products I noticed: Women buy a special cream ...one for the eyes, one for the mout I used to be a victim of that. It really isn't necessary, I think. So I decided to make a universal crea The anti-marketing cream. Sophie uses the Internet to sell the products On hot days in downtown Nice, she sells refreshing creams, floral water, Want to try? It helps those It's fine to stay as you are. Sophie belongs In France, about EUR400 million of revenue annually. At the same time, of a wild Provence in tune with nature. The market is growing Here, in this field near Roussillon, in an exciting range of new varieties. I have two, no, three favorites: Marseille basil because it's..., wow, And then lemon basil, We use it to mix mojitos, actually. Worldwide, and 60 of them are growing They bear such names as Magic Michael, Basil originally came from Asia. Alexander the Great brought When I was little, in summer by the s It was an important family moment. When I discovered the range of basils It's unhealable. Hallo Francois, alles klar. I'll get them ready for you. What was that? I didn't hurt you? It's a praying mantis. But otherwise, it's very nice. Francois Scaramouche is one The gourmet ice cream manufacturer uses I make basil sorbet. By mixing the le And it's very, very good. I like the slight base note of lemon. The large-leafed basil is too much For my use, that is. Thank you, see you soon. Southern Provence has a reputation Several drivers including La Pioline Castle. Chef de cuisine, Pierre Rubel is one who are perking up the culinary trade For my restaurant recipes, rosemary, sage, thyme ...every possible herb. So for my cuisine, Rabaul is a pioneer of molecular cuisine. He takes lettuce leaves and extracts, serving the resulting He playfully reinvents Since I was small, I want to go on with nonsense, Molecular cuisine is ruled Rabaul separates all the ingredients frozen, dehydrated, melted, or vacuumized. They change their texture. The 40-year-old tries out The ingredients for the red beet base with oregano simmer before the liquid nitrogen freezes them This is anise schnapps snow with oreg There must be magic in the diner's mo hot/cold, To give people -- beyond good dining -- We shouldn't wait The raspberries with oregano ... We're lucky, it's good. It's super fresh. We have fun testing ...or marjoram with a sweet dessert. Rabaul has been cooking He learned the trade but gradually grew bored Then Ferran Adria, invited the cook to Spain. I've been working on this bubble Today I got this superfine skin injec When it bursts in the diner's mouth, To me, taste is the most important th Rabaul surprises even the Provence by revealing hidden aspects Before the landscape was cultivated, wild lavender, the original herb, Today, the plains are dominated In the mountains, it's a different story, a slope in the Provencal dome mountains, This is where the realm Claire Chaston is busy harvesting. One mustn't think about the job ahead Just think about what you're doing handful by handful, minute by minute, Wild lavender is a niche product in demand with connoisseurs the luxury perfumery. It's also called true lavender. The shrubs and flowers aren't uniform It's a more subtle perfume. Each plan There's great variety of color, The sum of these differences makes fo In the three weeks of harvest, they collect flowers The laborious harvest makes it twice Claire's husband, Jean-Marie, still remembers the golden age Just call us turtles. During the 1960s, Everyone up here lived off wild lavender. Jean-Marie's grandfather set the pace. He was even faster, a real maniac. It had to be spick and span -- It wasn't wooded like today. Fearing soil erosion, the Provence planted conifers Each year, the wooded area increased, and the lavender vanished When the Chaston began clearing the pines, Here's typical: Once we reopen the sp It's the natural cycle: The wild lavender has retaken Up here, While down in the valley, Fortunately, wild lavender It seeds itself naturally. So if one dies, the next survives. The French referred to wild lavender You feel like you're gathering It's very evocative. Wild lavender, is back, and by adapting future farmers may succeed in preserving the herbal riches