Hey guys! Dan here. Welcome back to the one and only... Baldi's basics, where we were this close! And I mean this close.. To complete the game last time. But no. The game developer had an idea.. Let's add new things! There is a brand new update today and... oh. Story mode: Collect all seven notebooks and exit the school, Endless: find as many notebooks as you can. Oh my goodness- haha! He- He's drowning in his own notebooks. That's what you GET BALDI. He's having lips that thick. So apparently, there's new items, and a brand new character as well as new endings, which we haven't even got to yet.. But let's play back into story mode and see his really awkward- yep. His waggly arm. Oh! Well, hold on a second. There's an outdoors! haha! What is wrong with those clouds that cloud on the top looks like a butt? Okay, things are looking good, Baldi. Well, better than they were before. Anyway, give me this quarter! Thank you. Let the games... begin... I don't want you to make that noise ever again. Okay, he's slapping.. He's slapping! Let's see where this new guy is. Wait a second.. Baldi used to start this- Oh, there he is haha! He's around the corner. I was like: Baldi used to start this way, and he still does. Can't remember the route I used last time which is bad. I think I went left? Not too sure..? No, no, no, no, no, no, no. Stay away from me. Stay away from me right now. Oooh, did you hear that? Apparently she makes music now when she's nearby so you can try and to avoid her which is way better. Also, I'm gonna grab this. Thank you. :D Oh look new item. What is this? &quot;Safety scissors&quot; Um, okay. I have no idea what those do, but let's solve a math problem. We've got 6, 6, and 8. what do the safety scissors do..? It must be something to do with paper, right? Or maybe running? OOOH! Ok, why are you- why are you getting so fast already? Look at this dude! No! Okay, you can't use them while running. There must be a reason why they're safety scissors and not normal scissors, right? 6, 4, that's a we way too long to do. Okay. I'm worried now, because he's really close. I think he's just outside- AHHHH Oh my goodness.. Punch myself in the air. Did you get harder? I think you might got harder and.. Looks like you might dyed his eyebrow as well. Goo- Good job he-heh! Oh. What is this? &quot;No Squee Door Type&quot; What?! Sir. Do you what this is? Somebody help me. I'm scared and alone D: Will you help me? Oh geez.. Does that mean we cannot get sweeped if he sweeps us up? Oooooh..... Safety scissors are in here as well. What do they even do? I'm- I'm even more confused by this game. I didn't think that was possible either. What... is all this noise... No... please... please... please.... Leave me alone! (Get outta here you freaky girl) Leave me alone! NO! HE'S GONNA GET ME! Have I ever told you how much I hate you? (Weird noise) And we're okay.. What is that noise? It's a brand ne- (Creepy voice) Who are you?! No! hahahaha! What?! That must be his new friend... okay.. Ugh! I should have just completed it that day shouldn't I? Last week because.. they've made it harder.. Is that first prize? The new guy? What do the safety scissors do? Maybe- can they cut her rope? Maybe they can cut her rope! That'd be fantastic. I don't even care. Whatever it does to- heheh! stop her bothering me! I feel like Baldi is really fast now! Now even at the beginning, he used to be really slow at the begging. It's not fair. Se how fast he is? This dude! It's so creepy when he comes down the corner. Okay, problem is I now have too many items I need you know.. Let's buy this soda, oh I also need to work out the tape aswell. I think you guys taught me how to do it. I need to blast Baldi back to the previous century though First come here buddy. Come here. It's gonna be okay. I need to get real close to me almost coming for it No, no, no. No, don't come here. Don't get out. Yes!Oh, that was close. Oh, no, no, no, no... no.. AH! WHY... Just blew him back. And now you're doing this to me. I had an advantage and now you've messed it up.. I've met a try out the scissors but I completely forgot. This is this the worst school I have visited in my life. Oh man! It's giving me some kind of.. brain ache? I think my brain might be melting? Just a little bit? Where's notebook number five? We got 2 to go. Oh no.. he's so fast.. AHHHHH! Right, I'm finding that tape. I'm going to detention I need to find out about these brands new characters And I think they have explanations of each one in detention. So, let's see what we can do I think the tapes through here if it hasn't moved already. Hey, there it is. Right. I think I need the tape and the quarter Can you hear that? Hey, hey, how's it going? Push me? push me what he Though I'm stuck between two Oh He saved me. Yes. I think he asked me to marry him. Oh my goodness. What are you doing? Get off me, sir? The garden what's wrong with your eye? I like that guy He saved me from the stupid playground lady ha ha way that she is. I didn't mean it. I didn't mean it I didn't mean it. Leave me alone. Please. Just leave me alone. Someone sent me to detention, please Yes, I do know why I got tension, but I did I Radiate this game. I'm putting the cassettes in the player There we go What does it do? Oh wait look won first prize at the science fair love's hugging people rushing towards anyone It sees sadly it turns super slowly. Okay, so it's kind of like a sweep um You you can kind of control him a little bit more. It sounds like Baldie now doesn't know where I am Now the second thing you guys told me to try is now putting the quarter in the phone because remember last time it turned into a tape player it Really really good if the tape player when it's got the cassette in and then changed from the phone into the cassette player Sounds crazy then gives you that disorientating sound Everywhere, that would be perfect and hopefully now he won't find me in detention, which should be even better. I could actually hear him Okay, he's right there. Um, I kind of need to get to the end there buddy. Looks like I'm turning rounds Oh for goodness sake ah Everyone feel crazy Everyone's go crazy too much noise search our little pulley as well. The boolean first prize just chill it out. Why does this school exists? Why says the phone? I just want to make a phone call, please Oh, I just had a thought I just saw arts and crafts. You know that sock puppet Maybe he has something to do with the safety scissors Cos you safety scissors for arts and crafts, right? I haven't an arts and crafts in a while. But um, I think so Oh wait Please refrain from using the phone law professor Baldi's in the building. It caused him to forget what he is doing and prevents him from Hearing I don't care BAM I think this might work Tape player activated. Let me just grab myself a be soda, and then I'll be taking those notebooks. Thank you, buddy Does that mean now doesn't know where I am because he used to post about being able to hear every door We open is that not the case now because I would be really happy about that Why don't order the answer to this sixteen? There we go. I don't think you do anymore, buddy. Do ya ha ha ha no Sound stops Why did the sound stop? Okay, maybe that wasn't the best plan. That would be really really good though Maybe I should use it at a different time There he is, okay, I need to get a run on this because I have a really really good leader of him Oh, no, no, no. No, don't do it. Don't do it, don't you dare? Is it going is coming towards me get away from me. Geez, I need to try out these safety scissors as well There we go. Safety scissors acquired Much noiz 1-3 and an impossible problem. No On an earth no no Don't push me. Don't push me. I keep forgetting I could press space. He's gonna come for me. He's gonna do it. Here he comes I'm gonna get in this door before you can even touch me buddy. I can't even run because the detention guys behind him. Oh Man, this is like it's like Five Nights At Freddy's but worse. I'd rather spend a night with Freddy-- I'd rather spent in ten nights at Freddy's than have to spend any more time in this school. What are you doing in here? I didn't do anything. How did you come in the room? Sir. Please leave me alone. I don't like you. Okay, I can hear Baldi. I have no idea where he is... There's loads of characters around me. I think I'm on the verge of death. There. He is back. Oh my goodness so much. Mr Almost pressed the wrong button. Hey get out of here and the bully goes to Okay, maybe the bully doesn't go. That's fine. They actually haven't no idea where to go now I need two more notebooks to I think I've done this one. I Have-- no, I haven't done this one. I don't think I've done this one. Let's go. Let's go. Yes. Okay. Perfect. He's really close by me though. He's gonna get me. Oh no. Oh no. Oh no. Oh no... He's there! (Screaming) Safety scissors. Yes, the safety scissors work. Cut that rope in half! Oh my goodness. I don't even know where to go I've got no B-Sodas left either. I'm just got to run Baldi, please. I know why you're angry, okay? I know you just really wanted hair when you were younger and no one will let you have it, but I would! Oh... No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. No, I need, no-- there's an alarm clock in there. Oh, wait a second. What does this do? I'll take the quarter. I think I've just lost myself the whole game. What does this do? What did that do? What did that even do!? Baldi is attracted to sound, right? So the tape player is really good because it distracts him... Does the alarm clock distract him too? I'm gonna put out there and say that you can just place it because when we turned around... It was just chilling there. Right? So he's attracted to the alarm clock which is bad because I put it right next to me I'm so glad that these exists; the safety scissors is the best item ever. Oh my goodness. That's wrong... No, not today! Not today, you can back right off me playground lady man He's really fast at the beginning like really really fast because I used to be way ahead of him when doing this strategy But now he's like all up in my face. See what I mean? He's right behind me. Why I'm gonna have to lock the doors on him. Okay, I'm gonna go through here. No scissors scissors, and then yellow door lock. I I made it; gonna buy this. Thank you. No, no. No, I don't even see you that poor. It's ruined my whole strategy See what I mean? Get off me get off me. You pushed me to a phone. Why would you do that? I don't like you at all! Oh No-- Okay. Get out of here Bobby. I'm sick of you. It is what no, don't give me detention. Don't get detention. I need this boat. I'm losing my mind! Slowly I think he's gonna send me to detention guys. Oh no. Oh, no, he's gonna push me to the bully. No, ha ha I avoided you punk! What?! I didn't do anything. I'm dead. I'm dead. I'm so dead. Where is he? Oh, He's there. quick, go go go. I can go, I can go. Yes, let's go pretty quickly. Oh my goodness. He's so close! I need this notebook. I think I'm gonna die though. No! Come on, Baldi. Come on then! yeah, come and get me! I knew he was coming, and It is still scared me. Oh, no, no Get away from me locked out, Punk! What?! Why are you there?! Oh my goodness. I think I just pushed him closer to detention as well. You're the most annoying character. All of you guys are annoying. Why am I in this school? can I just get a transfer please? Oh, actually... I think he's disappeared Baldi's gone somewhere else. Okay. I'm dead. I'm so dead. I'm so dead. Wait a second. Wait a second. I can use this I Need to push him back, though. Get out of here. I'm gone. How are you free already? Baldi, give me a break, dude. Yep, I'm dead. He sent me to detention. I am going to steal your socks because you're not wearing any. I hate you... a lot. What is happening? What is happening? Are you kidding me? Baldi just dodged my soda. I'm so done with this game. Oh. he saved me. Thanks, buddy! I've got six. I've got six! NO! AH!!! This is the last notebook. the last one... Two minus two and now I need a plan to get out of here because he's gonna be super angry. He's in the canteen next to me. I Don't know how I'm gonna get out of here. There's an exit in the canteen, but let's find out Let's load it up and let's go. This is gonna be so bad So bad. I'm actually nervous. I have no items either How's it like it out, how did I just get out I just got out What is happening What is happening I need rest No I managed to get out of detention somehow by shaking my mouth and screaming like a madman. This game has got so hard so hard so What you guys have been telling me is when you get out the exit There's actually four exits in total as we saw from the map In the last episode and just now very very quickly But three of the exits of fate or one of them is real and you have to go through all three fake exits To be able to get to the real one and they're all dotted around the edge of the school. So I'm not quite sure I'm gonna do this Oh Check this out. So they've got a zesty bar machine as well. And there's also The no squee. I'm not actually sure that is oh no. Oh no. Oh, no. He's here Oh, Does that mean that the sweep can't get through I Sprayed the door you have disinfectant all over you. I'm so angry gay guys. I can't do it They made it harder the old version seems so much easier now. We got to the end once Unfortunately, I've run out of time so I can't play anymore. But I hope you enjoyed this anyway, seeing all the new stuff in bodis basics new character as well, which is actually really really challenging if you come across him because if you don't catch him or pass him before he turns in pushing you it's Worse than the sweet, but I hope you enjoyed it anyway, and next time we will we will Complete it or at least try our best because it's difficult one and there's new endings and stuff as well so we need to try and find out not just one ending but two so have you enjoyed this anyway if you're excited for the New one as well. Please be a big fat like that. We greatly appreciate it And it comes to be the persevere you see me Please do consider subscribing to join team TDM today a full daily video as part from that guy Thank you again so much watching you are the best and I'll see you next time. Good. Bye