Hi, it's Anders! Today I'm going to tell you my top Don't worry we're going to make sense of all this. I promise. [intro music] Welcome back! I recently spoke to a few of you who and I think that is super cool. If I were to start a bar from scratch, these would be the first bottles I would buy. So let's get started. Number one - rye whiskey. First on my list is rye whiskey, and that is because rye is the By rule, rye has to be at least 51% rye in the mash bill. And what that does is that I really like to mix with - It really holds up in cocktails. Also I like to make classic cocktails, I recommend Rittenhouse Rye. It happens to be a hundred proof, but what I like about it, I really like Rittenhouse. which is also readily available, balanced, and less expensive. Number two - bourbon. Bourbon is another whiskey that I like to have behind the bar. but the truth is, if I were building up a bar, I would grab a bottle of bourbon. There are other rules as well, but the important thing is it's a sweeter I really like it with citrus, or a drink that has a lot of bitters - It's also just really good on its own. Buffalo Trace has been my go-to for a long time, but there are a number of other good bourbons out there. or get quality bourbon for a low price. I'd highly recommend Evan Williams Black Label. Number three - scotch. Another whiskey that I like to mix with because it just There are a number of different styles of scotches, This is a blended malt whiskey. and it goes well in classics like the Blood and Sand, There are also single malt scotches for those that You've got the blended scotches, which are more about smoothness, So if you like a big, smoky scotch, then you might want to go You are going to spend a little bit more money, I like to actually have both of these behind the bar - but not necessary. it would be the Monkey Shoulder for mixing. Number four - gin. We finally moved on from whiskey. Not everybody is a whiskey drinker, Gin is in. Gin is called for in a number of classic cocktails as well. There are styles that range from your old tom gins, your navy strength gins - which are stronger, and new American style. and it's not quite as juniper-driven as a London dry. It's also a pretty bottle. If you do like a gin and tonic, In which case, I like Brokers very much. a lot of smaller distilleries are doing new western styles, This is Journeyman Distillery's Bilberry Black Hearts Gin, but I think that you should go out and find a local distillery, Number five and six - light and dark rum. Rum, rum - here we go. This is a tough one. I narrowed it down to two very different rums, There are so many different styles of rum. This was really difficult, I would have at least half this list, if not more, would be rum. But for this list, I've come up with And when I say that I'm not referring to the color of the rum. Light rum - and light flavor, and dark rum - not really So I should say light and full - I guess. As far as light rum, I really like the El Dorado 3 Year. so it's a really smooth rum that goes well in daiquiris and mojitos. If you're looking for an affordable light rum, As far as the dark rum, It's really big flavored, holds up in tiki drinks. If you want a rum that's a little less assertive, I always have that on hand too. I almost put that in this category, Number seven - brandy. Brandy is a staple you want to have behind your bar which is one of my personal favorites. Brandy is a distillate made from fruit, most notably grapes. which comes from a specific region in France, Maison Rouge, however, has been my And I love it because it's a V.S.O.P. cognac that is very affordable. You do really only need one bottle of aged brandy, Korbel - I have this for one reason, and one reason only, California brandy is lighter and sweeter than cognac, But that'll be another episode. Number eight - tequila and/or mezcal. This is something you wanna have behind your bar because sooner or later Thing about tequila is unlike rum, don't go cheap. Look for 100% agave. just as filler. That's a headache waiting to happen. and one of them is cheap tequila. There's also reposado and anejo, and those are different As far as the mezcal, It does have a different flavor profile though, and I prefer to mix with mezcal, actually. Siete Leguas Blanco is a really nice mixing tequila. and as far as mezcal, Vida de San Luis del Rio is a really good mezcal. They do get smokier, but taste them and see what you like. Okay vodka. There's always going to be somebody who doesn't like the taste of alcohol, by definition it is flavorless and odorless. I really like this Rider Vodka from Union Horse Distilling. and it has a creamy texture that adds something Vodka is great in mules, or you can swap them out for However, it's really easy to work with. cocktail of sorts. If you want a more readily then Russian Standard would be a good one. I'm sorry. If you don't want to taste booze, Number ten and eleven - sweet and dry vermouth. These are the first of our modifiers. and the French style vermouth is the drier vermouth. they're called for in numerous classic cocktails. in a Manhattan, the dry vermouth in a Martini or Brooklyn. should be kept in the refrigerator. you are guzzling vermouth. The sweet vermouth that and the dry vermouth is Dolin, which is If you're feeling adventurous, you might want to try something like and use some sherries - which are outstanding in cocktails. I'm excited to mix with it. When I'm talking about this I'm not talk about They go really well with base spirits. But vermouth, you should definitely have. Number twelve - orange liqueur. This is one liqueur that I've got on the list. It was hard because there are many called for in a lot of different cocktails. So the two main ones - you have your curacaos, triple secs, which are grain spirit based. the curacao is a little bit richer, but all of So I like to have a few different ones behind the bar. is the Pierre Ferrand on Dry Curacao, which I've mentioned curacao, and then I like to have a triple sec as well. I really like the Luxardo Triplum. and if you like things a little sweeter and richer, But yeah - it goes drier to sweet, I really like the Dry Curacao from Pierre Ferrand. Number thirteen - an aperitif or digestif. Hold on. So an aperitif is a bitter spirit that you're And the digestif is a slightly bitter spirit They're meant to be enjoyed on their own, is they add a bitter component to cocktails. all of them, don't get me wrong - but if I had to a lot of cocktails that call for Campari. There's a family of cocktails that all kind of stem from Campari. then I'd recommend Aperol, but like to have on hand. Alright, number thirteen is Campari. Number fourteen - absinthe or pastis. Some cocktails will call for an absinthe rinse in the glass, or if you want to mix something like a Momisette. way you're not wasting it when you make the rinse in the glass. You can just spritz it in Absinthe is an anise flavored spirit. Which everybody thought made you crazy. Pastis is essentially a spirit with the same flavor profile Now absinthe is legal and you can get the real deal with the wormwood. because it is high proof. I do like La Clendestine, which is a Swiss absinthe. So you have your traditional green absinthe, If you wanted to go the pastis route, then you have Ricard or Pernod. Number fifteen - bitters. Bitters is something that every bar should have. Everybody says it, &quot;It's the salt and pepper.&quot; Hmm? Everybody? Everybody out there's saying it right now - I can hear 'em. It's what makes everything so good, and it brings everything together. If I were to only have one bitters, because it is the classic cocktail bitters. for you to kind of let your personality show. if you want to cherry bitters or tobacco bitters. So you can have a huge collection of bitters or while we're on the topic, an orange bitters on hand aromatic bitters from New Orleans. It's traditional, it's the original, I use it in cocktails, Bitters, bitters - bitter, bitters, bitters. I could conclude the list there, Maraschino liqueur and Chartreuse. Both of these are called for in classic cocktails, and I use them quite often. Maraschino is a cherry liqueur, and Chartreuse is an herbal liqueur. If I were to step behind a bar and they didn't have either So that's why they're not on my essential list, the liquor store to buy them. If you want to get these, Especially the Chartreuse, it can be a little bit expensive. I have half a cocktail right here. Liqueurs - it's tricky because there are so many different liqueurs. You know - if you want to be making a Brandy Alexander, Or if you like White Russians, Your list can go on and on and on if you want, and build your own list. just think about the drinks you want to make, Thank you again for making your cocktails with me. Follow me on Instagram if you want, and send pictures of the Other than that, if you like this video, like and subscribe. Cheers! [music fades]