Chris Anderson: It's very nice Let's see. First of all, congratulations. You really pulled off something you achieved something which was, you pulled off a kind of, It was great. (Laughter) The bad news was that that consensus &quot;We must ban TikTok.&quot; So we're going to come to that in a bit. And I'm curious, but before we go there, You seem to me like a remarkable person. I want to know a bit of your story and how you came Shou Chew: Thank you, Chris. Before we do that, can I just check, how many of you here use TikTok? Oh, thank you. For those who don't, the Wi-Fi is free. (Laughter) CA: There's another question, which is, how many of you here have had through your kids SC: Oh, that's great to see. CA: It's basically, if you're alive, you have had some kind of contact So tell us about you. SC: So my name is Shou, Roughly 10 years ago, I met with two engineers And the idea behind this that recommended content to people which was, if you think the social graph was all in the rage. And the idea was, you know, your content and the feed that you saw But 10 years ago, these two engineers thought which is, instead of showing you -- instead of showing you people you knew, why don't we show you And that's sort of of the early iterations of TikTok. And about five years ago, with the advent of 4G, short video, TikTok was born. And a couple of years ago, I had the opportunity to run this company, and it still excites me every single day. CA: So I want to dig in about what was it that made Because the language I hear it's sort of like I mean, it is a different level of addiction And I don't necessarily mean this There's good and bad things But it's the feeling that within a couple of days it knows you and it surprises you with things that you didn't know but you are. How? Is it really just, What are these algorithms doing? SC: I think to describe this, we have to talk about Now the mission is to inspire And I think missions for companies Because you have product managers and they need to have something to sort of, Now, based on this mission, our vision is to provide We want to provide a window to discover, and I'll talk about discovery, We want to give them a canvas to create, which is going to be really exciting that are going to help people And the final thing is bridges So that's sort of the vision Now what really makes TikTok is the whole discovery engine behind it. So there are earlier apps but they were built For example, in the era there was an app that was built so that is more easily found. And then in the era of social graphs, it was about connecting people Now what we have done is that ... we're showing people what they liked. And what this means is that we have a platform to be discovered. If you have talent, it is very, very easy And I'll just give you The biggest creator on TikTok Khaby was from Senegal, he lives in Italy, He, for the longest time, But what he did was he had talent. He was funny, he had a good expression, he had creativity, so he kept posting. And today he has 160 million So every single day businesses, people with talent. And I think it's very freeing where, as long as you have talent, and you have the chance to succeed. And that's what CA: So this is the amazing thing to me. Like, most of us have grown up where, for decades you've had thousands toiling in the trenches, trying to imagine stuff And none of them ever that looked like many of your creators. So these algorithms, just by observing people's behavior have discovered things that thousands Tell me some of the things So obvious things, or stays on a video for a long time, that gives you a clue, &quot;more like that.&quot; But is it subject matter? What are the array of things that you have noticed that provide useful clues? SC: I'm going to simplify this a lot, but the machine learning, is really just math. So, for example, if you liked and I like videos one, maybe he liked videos one, Now what's going to happen is, because we like one, two, three he's going to be shown And you can think about this across more than a billion people. That's basically what it is, it's math. And of course, you know, AI and machine learning at a very, very big scale. And what we have seen, the result of this, is that it learns the interest signals that people exhibit very quickly and shows you content in a very quick way. CA: So it's a form of collaborative The theory behind it is that these we don't really know but if we see that one with an overlap of someone else, you could make use of the other pieces that are in that overlapped and they'll be surprised. But the reason they like it SC: It's pattern recognition And I think the other thing here is that we don't actually on whether you like a piece of content, we don't do that. We built that experience organically So you are voting with your thumbs by swiping it, by liking it, you are basically exhibiting And what it does mathematically put it in a formula and then matches it That's basically the idea behind it. CA: I mean, lots of start-ups have tried I'm wondering what else played I mean, how big a deal was it, that from the get-go you were so that videos were shot and they were short. Was that an early distinguishing SC: I think we were the first You know, the recommendation algorithm as to why the platform is so popular But beyond that, you know, So we talked about the vision which is to have a window to discover. And if you just open the app you'll see that it takes up So that's the window that we want. You can imagine a lot of people to discover new things in their lives. Then, you know, through we have found that it connects People find communities, and I've heard so many stories of people because of the content Now, I'll give you an example. I was in DC recently, and I met CA: I heard. (Laughter) SC: One of them was sitting his name is Samuel. He runs a restaurant in Phoenix, Arizona, He told me he has never done He started posting and I saw his content, I was hungry after looking at it, And he's generated so much that last year he made something like just via TikTok. One restaurant. And again and again, I hear these stories, you know, by connecting people together, by giving people the window to discover, we have given many small businesses a voice that they will And I think that's the power CA: So you definitely just how we're social creatures, I've heard a story, and you can tell me whether true or not, that one of the keys to your early liftoff was that you wanted to persuade creators that this was a platform early on, when you're trying the numbers aren't there for response. So you had the brilliant idea basically finding ways a bigger sense of like, more likes, more engagement by using AI agents somehow in the process. Is that a brilliant idea, SC: I would describe it So there are other platforms And if you think about those platforms, you sort of have to be famous already Because the way it's built And if you aren't already famous, the chances that you get discovered Now, what we have done, again, because of the difference in the way is that we have given anyone, any single person with enough talent And I think that actually is the single, contributing to the growth And again and again, you will hear stories who post regularly on it, that if they have something the platform gives them to connect with their audience in a way that I think no other product CA: So I'm just trying to play back You said you were describing Is it then the case that like, someone who's brilliant but doesn't come that you've got some technique and that you will almost encourage them, you will give them some kind of, you know, artificially increase the number or whatever that they have, so that others are encouraged to go, &quot;Wow, there's something there.&quot; Like it's this idea of critical mass every party planner kind of knows about of &quot;No, no, this is the hot place and that that is how SC: We want to make sure is given an equal chance to be able But this idea that you that we can get people to like something, it doesn't really work like that. CA: Could you get AI agents Could you seed the network with extra AI give someone early encouragement? SC: Ultimately, what the machine does So if you post something even if you gave it a lot of exposure, you're not going to get So it's a lot of ... There is no push here. It's not like you can go because I like Chris, it doesn't work like that. You've got to have a message and if it does, then it will automatically That's the beauty It's not something that can be It really is something that has And if it does, then it goes viral. CA: Speaking privately with an investor who said that actually of the algorithms you have going is just another order of magnitude to what competitors like, you know, Is that just hype like, how complex are these algorithms? SC: Well, I think in terms of complexity, there are many companies and a lot of talent. They will figure out even I think what is very different how you started the company. Like I said, you know, that this was the main use case. The most important use case is you come Now for some other apps out there, they are very significant they are built for a different And if you are built then your users are used to that because the community comes in So I think the pivot away from that is not really just a matter it's a matter of what your company Which is why I started this by saying you need to have a mission, You can't just shift it halfway. CA: Right. And is it fair to say that because your start point rather than social graph algorithms, you've been able to avoid the filter bubbles that have happened where you have tribes kind of declaring And so much of the noise Do you believe that you've largely SC: The diversity of content You know, in order for the discovery -- sorry, the vision is to discover. So in order to facilitate that, it is very important to us that what the users see Now, generally speaking, you know, there are certain issues that the industry faces, you know. There are some bad actors they post bad content. Now our approach is that we have We're very transparent and what is not allowed on our platform. No executives make any ad hoc decisions. And based on that, we have built a team that is tens in order to identify content that is bad and actively and proactively CA: Talk about what some SC: We have it published on our website. In March, we just iterated a new version So there are many things like, clearly no child sexual abuse material no violence, for example. We also make it clear if you're below 18 years old. So if you're below your entire app experience We don't allow, as an example, users below 16, by default, to go viral. We don't allow that. If you're below 16, we don't allow you to use If you're below 18, we don't allow you And of course, we give parents to control their teenagers' CA: How do you know the age of your users? SC: In our industry, we rely mainly which is when you sign up and we ask you for the age. Now, beyond that, we also have built tools to go when you post a video, we try to match the age that you said Now, there are questions And the question always has, in our industry, has to be Now, if, for example, we scan then we will significantly increase But we will also significantly that we collect on you. Now, we don't want to collect data. We don't want to scan data So that balance has to be maintained, and it's a challenge together with industry, CA: So look, one thing is that you have created a platform who never thought they were going You've given them an audience. I'd actually like to hear from you of someone who TikTok that never had that before. SC: So when again, when I travel around the world, I meet with a whole bunch I was in South Korea just yesterday, before that I met with a bunch of -- People don't expect, There is an English teacher from Arkansas. Her name is Claudine, She uses our platform There is another teacher And Chemical Kim teaches chemistry. What she does is she uses our platform to reach out to a much than she has in her classroom. And they're both very, very popular. You know, in fact, what we have realized is that STEM content has over 116 billion views And it's so significant -- CA: In a year? SC: Cumulatively. CA: [116] billion. SC: It's so significant, that in the US creating a feed just for STEM content. Just for STEM content. I've been using it for a while, You want to know what it is? Apparently if you flip the egg will last longer. It's science, there's a whole video on this, You can search for this. CA: You want to know If you put it in just one hand it will never break. SC: Yes, I think I read about that, too. CA: It's not true. (Laughter) SC: We can search for it. CA: But look, here's here's the flip side And honestly, this is the key thing, that I want to have an honest, because it's such an important issue, this question of human addiction. You know, we are ... animals with a prefrontal cortex. That's how I think of us. We have these addictive instincts and we often are in the mode It turns out that the internet at activating our animal cells and getting them so damn excited. And your company, is better at it than any other company So what are the risks of this? I mean, how ... From a company point of view, for example, it's in your interest to have people So some would say, as a first pass, you want people to be addicted That's how advertising money and that's how your creators What is too much? SC: I don't actually agree with that. You know, as a company, our goal is not to optimize It is not. In fact, in order to address people we have done a number of things. I was just speaking with some One of them told me If you spend too much time we will proactively send you videos We will. And depending on the time of the day, if it's late at night, We have also built in tools to limit, if you below 18 years old, by default, we set a 60-minute default time limit. CA: How many? SC: Sixty minutes. And we've given parents tools if you go to settings, We've given parents tools for the parents who don't know this, you can pair your phone and set the time limit. And we really encourage parents to have on what is the right amount I think there's a healthy relationship and as a business, we believe So it's not true that we just want CA: If you were advising parents here what time they should actually what do you think is the right setting? SC: Well, 60 minutes, we did not come up with it ourselves. So I went to the Digital Wellness Lab and we had this conversation with them. And 60 minutes was the recommendation which is why we built this into the app. So 60 minutes, take it for what it is, it's something that we've had some But I think for all parents here, it is very important to have these and help them develop a healthy I think we live in an age that we're going to interact but I think we should develop and that's something I would encourage. CA: Curious to ask the audience, which of you who have ever had saying, "Come off." OK, I mean ... So maybe a third of the audience and about 20 people maybe Are you sure that -- like, it feels to me but are you ... isn't there always in any given quarter or whatever, to just push it a bit at the boundary and just dial back a bit on that so that you can hit revenue goals, etc? Are you saying that this SC: I think, you know, in terms ... Even if you think about it it is always best when your customers have with your product. It's always best when it's healthy. So if you think about very but that's not the way we think about it. If you think about it from what you really want to have You don't want people and then at some point So I think everything in moderation. CA: There's a claim out there there's a much more rigorous standards that children, especially, can spend SC: That is unfortunately a misconception. So that experience that is being which is a different app, is for an under 14-year-old experience. Now, if you compare we have an under-13 experience in the US. It's only available in the US, in Canada, we just don't allow it. If you look at the under-13 it's much more restricted It's so restrictive, that every single piece by our third-party child safety expert. And we don't allow any we don't allow them to post, and we don't allow them So I think that that report, it's not doing a fair comparison. CA: What do you make of this issue? You know, you've got these and all of them, in a sense, and that race can pull them So, for example, teenage girls on TikTok, sometimes people worry they've discovered that they can gain extra viewers. Is this a concern? Is there anything you can do about this? SC: We address this in our community You know, if you look at sort of if you're below a certain age, you know, for certain themes we actually remove that Again, I come back to this, you know, we want to have a safe platform. In fact, at my congressional hearing, I made four commitments to our users And the first one is that we take safety, extremely seriously, and we will continue to prioritize that. You know, I believe that we need and our users in general, a very safe experience, because if we don't do that, then we cannot fulfill -- the mission is to inspire If they don't feel safe, So it's all very organic to make sure I do that. CA: But in the strange interacting world weird memes can take off. I mean, you had this outbreak with these devious licks where kids to do vandalism in schools and, you know, get lots of followers from it. How on Earth do you battle SC: So dangerous challenges If you look at our guidelines, We proactively invest resources and remove them from our platform. In fact, if you search for dangerous we will redirect you And we actually worked with some creators This is another campaign. It's the &quot;Stop, Think, where we work with the creators to explain to people please don't do it. And we post these videos CA: That's cool. And you've got lots of employees. I mean, how many employees do you have who are specifically looking at these or is that the wrong question? Are they mostly identified by AI initially and then you have a group and making the final decision? SC: The group is based in Ireland it's tens of thousands of people. CA: Tens of thousands? SC: It's one of the most important and I think it's completely worth it. Now, most of the moderation The machines are good, they're quite good, but they're not as good as, you know, they're not perfect at this point. So you have to complement them And I think, by the way, is making that kind of content moderation So we're going to get more precise. You know, we're going And it's going to be able And that's something I think CA: What about this of use of, certainly Instagram, What people worry that you especially of teenagers and perhaps especially of teenage girls. They see these amazing people they feel inadequate, there's all these reported cases suicide and so forth. SC: I take this extremely seriously. So in our guidelines, for certain themes that we think we actually proactively remove it At the same time, we will make sure that you get redirected Now we are always working with experts that could emerge and proactively try to manage them, Now, this is a problem that predates us, that predates TikTok. It actually predates the internet. But it's our responsibility to make sure that we invest enough to understand to keep the experience as safe as possible for as many people as possible. CA: Now, in Congress, the main concern seemed to be but data, the data of users, the fact that you're owned and the concern that at any moment Chinese government might require And in fact, there have been instances where, I think you've confirmed, that some data of journalists was made available and from there, who knows what. Now, your response to this where you're moving data to be controlled Can you talk about that project why we should not worry SC: I will say a couple of things The first thing I would say on global interoperability, and we are not the only company to make our products as good as possible. Technology is a very collaborative effort. I think many people here So we are not the first company including in China. We're not the first one. Now, I understand some of these concerns. You know, the data access by employees This is very different, But we hear the concerns We did not try to avoid discussing. We did not try to argue our way out of it. What we did was we built where we localize American data by an American company So this kind of protection is beyond what any other company Well, money is not the only issue here, but it's very expensive And more importantly, you know, we are basically localizing data So we need to be very careful what we call digital sovereignty in the US and we are also doing that we don't balkanize the internet. Now we are the first to do it. And I expect that, you know, other companies are probably and trying to figure out how you balance you know, to make sure while at the same time to continue to happen, because that's what makes technology So that's something that we are doing. CA: How far are you along that journey SC: We are very, very far along today. CA: When will there be a clear you know, here it is, it's done, it's firewalled, SC: Today, by default, all new US data is already stored in the Oracle So it's in this protected US environment We still have some legacy data to delete and in Singapore. Our data has never That deletion is a very big So as we said, as I said at the hearing, it's going to take us a while but I expect it to be done this year. CA: How much power do you have over your own ability So, for example, suppose the Chinese government was to look &quot;You know what, we would like or &quot;We would like civil war How ... &quot;And we could do this by amplifying the content of certain causing uncertainty, If you were required like, first of all, is there a pathway What's your personal SC: So during the congressional hearing, I made four commitments, we talked about the first one, The third one is to keep TikTok By the way, if you go on TikTok today, you can search for anything you want, as long as it doesn't violate And to keep it free from any And the fourth one is transparency So the way we are trying is an unprecedented What do I mean by this? We're actually allowing to come in and review our source code. I don't know any other company Because everything, as you know, So to allow someone else is to give this a significant to ensure that the scenarios that are highly hypothetical, Now, at the same time, we are releasing more so that they can study the output. So the source code is the input. We are also allowing researchers which is the content on our platform. I think the easiest way to sort of You know, we give people and we just make it very, And that's our approach CA: So you will say directly to this group that the scenario I talked about, of theoretical Chinese government you can say that will not happen? SC: I can say that we to prevent any of these And I'm very confident that with that we're giving on the platform, we can reduce this risk CA: To as low as zero as possible. SC: To as close to zero as possible. CA: As close to zero as possible. That's fairly reassuring. Fairly. (Laughter) I mean, how would the world know? If you discovered this is this a line in the sand for you? Like, are you in a situation you would and that you are running do this? SC: Absolutely. That's the reason why we're letting because if they find out, We also have transparency where we talk about a whole the content that we remove, you know, government requests. You know, it's all published online. All you have to do is search for it. CA: So you're super compelling and likable as a CEO, I have to say. And I would like to, as we wrap this up, I'd like to give you a chance just As you look at what TikTok could be, let's move the clock out, say, How should we think about your SC: I think it's still down So in terms of the window of discovery, I think there's a huge when people can discover new things. You know, people think that TikTok and there's nothing wrong There's still a lot of that, but we're seeing have you about BookTok? It's a viral trend that talks about books and encourages people to read. That BookTok has 120 billion. CA: Billion, with a B. SC: People are learning how to cook, people are learning about science, people are learning how to golf -- well, people are watching (Laughter) I haven't gotten better I think there's a huge, huge and giving the everyday person a voice. If you talk to our creators, you know, a lot of people will tell you this they would never have been discovered. And we have given them And it's important to maintain that. Then we talk about creation. You know, there's all this new technology that will help people create I think there's going to be and I think there's a speaker between people and AI where they can unleash You know, like for example, but if I had some AI to help me, then maybe I can express Then we talk about bridges to connect and connecting people This could be products, five million businesses in the US I think we can get that number And of course, if you look around that number is going to be massive. So I think these are the biggest and it's really very exciting. CA: So courtesy of your you actually became a bit Some of your videos have gone viral. You've got your phone with you. Do you want to make a little Let's do this. SC: If you don't mind ... CA: What do you think, SC: We're just going to do So why don't we just say &quot;Hi.&quot; Hi! Audience: Hi! CA: Hello from TED. SC: All right, thank you, (Laughter) CA: If that one goes viral, I think (Laughter) Shou Chew, you're one and powerful people in the world, And I really appreciate you coming I really, really hope the upside Thank you so much for coming today. SC: Thank you, Chris. CA: It's really interesting. (Applause)