Welcome to the Atacama Desert, a land of Join us on a thrilling 7 day top 10 sites this mesmerizing desert has to offer. Number 1: The Moon Valley. Located just 10 miles one of the most interesting places you will ever As you drive in you're immediately presented with a breathtaking view. Vast stretches All around you, the eroded sandstone years by wind and water, create an awe-inspiring Interestingly the name Moon Valley comes from As you hike through the ancient sand dunes, jagged rock formations and salt caves. We found this really cool little oasis in A common feature not only of this the Atacama Desert are the salt deposits. You The entrance fee is $13 and you can get to the a car, you can come as part of a tour, or you miles from San Pedro de Atacama. However you get there is literally nothing here other than sun, Number 2: San Pedro de Atacama There are only a few towns in the Atacama Desert Pedro de Atacama sits in the middle of everything. What's up everyone, San Pedro the Atacama. A little Oasis in the desolate landscape a small trading Outpost for fishermen from the since grown to become one of Chile's most visited With a population of 3900 people most of the tourism in the area. Not also the only place to get gas, water There are no airlines that fly directly to City and you can fly directly to Calama from east to San Pedro. As you walk through many markets, artisan shops and little is very contagious and it's friendly inhabitants The town of San Pedro is very small and very easy rent at the majority of the towns's tour agencies you to visit sites like the Moon Valley Number 3: The Rainbow Mountains The Rainbow Valley is 40 miles north of San Pedro But halfway there werun into a herd of llamas Surprisingly they were not afraid of us at all As you enter the Rainbow Valley or Valle del Arcoiris as is known in Chile, the landscape quickly changes from flat and open terrain to towering cliffs and rugged rock formations. The rainbow in the name comes from all the of the valley. The main colors you can see are white salt and the blue sky. These colors show clays, salts and various different minerals. You through the Canyons but you really appreciate The Rainbow Valley is not just Oasis in the desert. Take a moment to the gentle breeze and feel the This is the perfect escape from the life. And the best part about it, there's And by the way, don't forget to stay until it casts a beautiful golden glow over the valley Number 4: The Hidden Baltinache Salt Lagoons. Finding the hidden Baltinache salt Lagoons is a little tricky. Although they're only 15 road to follow you're mostly offroading for the we thought we were lost but we finally found found these really cool wooden trail that connects 10 minutes we saw the first Lagoon and we were and emerald green of the lagoons and the whiteness seven lagoons in all but in order to preserve the Diving into the mineral rich water was very felt amazing coming from the 95 degree sun of the water, you're able to float easily providing It's actually really cool, the water is very cold and then the salt makes your It's like having your very own natural spa. It You don't have to do anything, you can put both of the water like I am right now and you still float. When you plan your trip to the Atacama Desert make sure places to visit. By the way, the entrance Number 5: Piedras Rojas. To reach our next Pedro into the mountains close to the through the hills and mountains are worth every Once you arrive at Piedras Rojas which literally trail that takes you for about a mile all the One of the most striking aspects of the of colors and nowhere is this contrast more The bright red rocks next to the blues, greens horizon. Such a beautiful landscape, an ideal spot Being up in the mountains meant that it was pretty windy and you when you visit. This is one of the few places You can also find several points on the main the salar and you can drive all the way down just walking and taking in the vastness And if you're liking the video so far make to our Channel today so you can keep up Number 6: Los flamenco's National Reserve Los flamenco's National Reserve is a nature Atacama right in between Chile, Argentina area of 300 square miles in the central-Andean The best way of really appreciating the beauty route. As you drive down Road 27 towards or Miradors, as they are known in Chile, where Each one of the spots marks a different ecosystem that dwell in this area are the guanaco, the andian If you're a nature lover this is a must visit able to just forget about everyday life's place, is something we all need to do We found this little Lake in the middle of the mountains It's about 50 Guanacos and maybe 10 donkeys. There's no entrance fee for this site but you do need to have a car to Number 7: Geysers El tatio. For our next stop o'clock in the morning and head high and deep into Good morning morning, we're on our Nestled high in the Andes Mountains El Tatio geysers is the third largest GeoThermal field in the world and it's the highest place Exploring El tatio is like stepping into GeoThermal wonderland you'll encounter colorful springs. The geysers with their bubbling The white plumes of steam rise landscape forming a surreal spectacle that The geothermal activity at El tatio is a good the forces that shape our planet. This is so cool It is a captivating destination for geology appreciates the wonders of nature. One wear many layers you're going high up in I think that one's supposed to be the El Tatio geyser. It smells like rotten eggs in here though. The geysers are a two-hour drive north to be here before 7 A.M if you really By eight in the morning, with the sun the geysers slowly disappear and The entrance fee to El tatio is $20 per Number 8: Chacabuco Abandoned Town. Located amid the bearing desert landscape Founded as a saltpeter mining town in the early nitrate or saltpeter towns in the Atacama Desert. Chacabuco became a concentration camp during the surrounded by approximately 98 lost landmines was used as a prison camp. Today it stands as a sad As you wander through the deserted streets dilapidated houses and rusted machinery. The eeriness of the abandoned town creates an Exploting Chacabuco allows you to imagine the lives once lived who called this place home. Chacabuco is located 135 miles Southwest of San Pedro de Atacama on the way towards Antofagasta. If you don't have get to Chacabuco so you need to rent a car or The entrance fee is very low it's Number 9 : Antofagasta Beach Next, on an Impulse, we strike west. For no apparent 250 miles that expand the Atacama Desert and Literally from the top of the Andes to the time to set up our tent and watch the sunset. Today we decided to camp by the beach, complete opposite of the desert. I mean, we ocean side it's beautiful here we're about As the day comes to a close, prepare to be transforms into a canvas of beautiful colors. magical backdrop as the sun dips below the water for a quick swim and packing up we head It's the morning of our last day at the desert anymore, we're at the beach but we now to the airport and fly to Santiago. But this Number 10: Hand of the desert. The hot and empty on both sides as you drive down the Pan American But about 45 miles Southeast of the broken by a sight even more alien definitely human. A 36 feet This small gravel road leads from the main highway to or entrance fees. Just a giant hand stretching This captivating sculpture created by Chilean landmark in the Atacama Desert. Its remote exclusivity to the experience. The meaning say it represents human vulnerability it's about mankind's ability to rise no But like everything in arts everyone will view