In terms of the mythological foundations the two key figures who legend has it, Manco Capac is a legendary Inca who appeared According to legend, The place where that staff would be the ideal location Legend has it that he set out and some of his people toward the land Having arrived at Cuzco we don't know his golden staff so he founded the town of Cuzco It has to be said that the Incas because, their territory stretched to the center of Chile. An enormous area, They were able to maintain that territory as we know it, without horses for transport Given that they had not yet Everything was organized and you can imagine the distances. [French spoken audio] Conquests were not always won In fact, fighting was avoided There was a good reason for that. For the Incas, what mattered but also expanding their workforce. That workforce who submitted of their own accord The Incas had a very intelligent They constantly offered their neighbors either by accepting proposals of marriage and noble women from the Inca Empire or by offering them gifts such as cloth, cereals, [French spoken audio] They also offered them because once a people became they were protected by the Incas. The stone architecture was already present which preceded that of the Incas The Incas developed their own techniques, where the stones are selected to fit that there was no space for a razor blade The only element which contrasted was the straw roof because they hadn't developed techniques The stones were extracted from quarries. They were dragged to transport them Then placed onto earthen platforms, and they were either dragged It needed an enormous amount of manpower, The terraces were occasionally used but more often for the cultivation to make chicha, the ceremonial beer, which was distributed on festive occasions In these rainy areas unless you flatten the land into terraces, to the bottom of the valley It was this system of colonization that enabled the Incas to use the land. As for Machu Picchu, for many years, designed to protect access from rebel tribes [French spoken audio] The idea was to prevent enemies Today, we know this was not the case because the Incas were already The other apparent incoherence is that they thought it was a citadel. If it'd been a citadel, and we haven't found any. When you look at the size of Machu Picchu who could have lived there, That's a long way off the estimate of 3,000 to 4,000 people. Today, many of the conceptions We've understood That they had a role and, in specific, earth cults, and that Machu Picchu's function was similar like a summer palace. Who lived there? Obviously, the Inca lived here for special occasions There were priests who would've taken care Then there were servants, the yanas, who were in the service of the Incas [French spoken audio] There were only a few people, and this helps explain which, though was local and rustic, with the aesthetic and architectural norms so we know that the ruling elite The Incas wouldn't settle just anywhere. They would only live in places where they could be in contact and in communication with their ancestors. They believed their ancestors When we look at the example the site of Machu Picchu snow-topped mountains and glaciers, and which were also the projected image They were protected and also by the mountains. All the buildings at Machu Picchu were oriented towards It represents the central square of Cuzco. The starting point of the four roads. The Arcopata is also where the Incas to worship the Inca Although there were many other monuments, It was known as Inti Wata. It's a miniature replica called Huayna Picchu. It's an exact copy of the peak It is believed that the structure was used as a sundial. Another sacred place, the Sun Temple, This tower might have been used Underneath is a natural cave, It contains an altar and several beautifully carved The Incas were certainly the world's In ritual terms, the emperor himself He presented himself as such, and at the same time, all golden objects also came from the Inca himself. He was linked to his sister-wife In every province, who ruled over all four regions, In each suyu or in each major city, This official delegate command a series of local lords whose lands were subdivided It was a sort of grid system Paying tribute was obligatory. They made no exceptions. Every year an inspector would visit A bit like our tax inspectors, which were known as quipus. Each knotted cord A bit like the Chinese abacus. The system worked They had designed a combination of knots, from which they could decipher It was based on a system of units, It was used to record information within a territory Other information, that could be stored as well as a number were also kept using these knotted cords. Most of the tribute It could be in goods, but mostly in labor. A number of tributaries were sent to Cuzco to participate join the army, build roads, and generally contribute In terms of administration, We know that the Incas their palaces or royal estates. There's the site of Pisac which was a palace divided into several areas, including a citadel The sacred part with the Sun Temple. This is where we find the Intihuatana, with its midline oriented towards the sun. All around, there are meeting places These were large buildings or when the governor organized One characteristic feature of Pisac most of which are ceremonial terraces. The terraces are often connected The corn was reserved used for the libations, The chichas libations were offered All of these terraces, to grow foodstuffs such as potatoes and neither did they contribute The cultivated land was, in principle, One part was for the Inca for example, the political elite. One part was designated for the cults, Their territory consisted from an altitude of 5,000 meters It's interesting that they had defined with different production methods, different territories Ever since ancient times, the resident populations With the colonial system into the different regions, to a wide range of produce, most of it which would be donated What did they cultivate in the Altiplano? Lots of potatoes. There were about 440 different types Potatoes are useful for larger numbers of people. [French spoken audio] Obviously, there was corn like Qukay and Pisac Corn was very important for the famous corn beer, to the sun and to the Inca. There was also cocoa. I don't classify it as a foodstuff. because the cocoa, was in high demand It was used to treat Two kilometers from Cuzco, the largest in the area, SacsayhuamAfA!n means The ninth Inca, Pachacutec, who envisioned Cuzco built SacsayhuamAfA!n as the animals head with the 22 zig-zag walls What techniques they used to transport is still a mystery to us. Bear in mind Three towers once rose above the walls, One of the last battles and it is remembered particularly When the Spanish were attacking the tower he threw himself rather than give himself up. There were many languages The most important [French spoken audio] One of the strengths of the Inca regime the lingua generale, between distant communities. It was the lingua generale because the missionaries learned it It became the common language for a large portion Moray, a circular terrain, which we think was probably used There were different crops because the terrain The terraces of Moray are an incredible site. This archaeological site rising over different levels, Each level appears with the layers descending The different levels are accessible integrated into the walls themselves and irrigation canals carry water through gullies dug through the stones. The differences in temperature enabled them to test plant growth When it came to communication, the Incas took on that existed prior to their arrival. They developed it even further. They maintained and extended the roads These roads have been compared The Spanish who've used them even noted that They had an information system A system known as Chasquis, These roads were used by people You can imagine what that meant. They ran relatively short distances, In just one day, from relay to relay, they could obtain information The Incas, unlike other cultures had not yet discovered the wheel, The only pack animal All the transportation, was done using caravans of llamas. The Spanish described caravans That means you could watch one-and-a-half These llamas belonged who'd offer their animals to the Inca You have to bear in mind would travel for up to a year We are talking about a period in history and so in some ways At Maras, we find These are community terraces that today are run The salt comes The site has been in use apparently, as far back as the so-called They realized that when they poured and left it to evaporate all day a layer of salt was left on the ground. The Incas took advantage Salt was essential For example, during certain festivals, and in others, They also used salt for washing. Salt had a fundamental role, and since it was a basic foodstuff, Cuzco is located It is close to the famous Sacred Valley, which is an extremely beautiful area. Progressively, Cuzco was established It was here that the four major routes They delimited the four main territories, which together made up Tawantinsuyu, with the northern, southern, Who lived at Cuzco? Essentially, Cuzco was inhabited Each conquered population living in or near the city of Cuzco. It was a sort of centralization of power. Cuzco means the navel of the world, which gives us a good idea as the very heart of the empire. One other element In the center of Cuzco was the Sun Temple, Qori means gold in Quechua. The sun is the ancestor of the Incas, In the Sun Temple, the ancestors of the Incas. There were also other astrological symbols generally found in gardens, which were golden replicas Today, only the basic outlines remain of the Inca Empire. In its day, the walls of Qorikancha each weighing almost two kilos. We can still admire showing Mother Earth and the Incas. Only four rooms The walls built on a slight angle are made The trapezoid doors and niches are typical We believe that the two larger rooms were the temples of the moon Their walls The two smaller rooms to worshipping rainbows and lightning. Before entering the temple, They came barefoot carrying a weight The most important ceremonies took place in the Sun Temple, This was where the mummies Sala golden thrones. Everything here was covered symbol of the sun. Even the famous internal gardens contained golden sheaths We know that the site at Ollantaytambo and a ceremonial center, because above the Inca Temple, It was obviously never quite finished. These stones are unique to this site, and they have elements In fact, it's not porphyry, which must have been difficult There's a whole system around the city for protection, and the lower parts too, because the irrigation network suggests that these are ritual terraces rather than for agricultural purposes. In the lower part, one of the large buildings that were used to hold important meetings In the Andes, textiles Unlike in the Mesoamerican cultures where we find dated steels, The equivalent of writing was textile, The way the threads were laid out, the warp threads could represent special configurations. That means when the weave the weaver conceives of the pattern Records show that in Pachacutec, the Incas gave a textile from the Qullasuyu region. The textile was in the form of a map It's important because in some ways, these are the precursors to the road maps Tambomachay, The road from Cuzco to Sacred Valley Some were temporary residences, buildings which were used by the armies. They would've served and as resting spots for the army. This was the case at Tambomachay. Not far from Tambomachay, and a natural water source. The name is often translated The site is the center with a sacred fountain, reserved solely for women. In general, an Inca who went to the site because it was a sort of monastery Inca gold, we often hear talk of it, but we see very little evidence of it because almost all of the Inca gold and most of the objects and gold whether they were works of art, The Spanish melted it down it had no aesthetic value, so they had no reason They simply wanted to obtain What's interesting that worked for the Incas They came from the north of Peru, The Incas took the goldsmiths from Chimu so that their skills would be put rather than the Chimu kings. It's a fortified stronghold, The remaining traces of where the forts stood to the Sacred Valley Amongst the relics of the Little Red Fortress, so-called were a number of fragments of red ceramic. Opinions about them vary, The mummies are treated, but they don't look like who were embalmed Here, they were dried and then covered The mummies were equipped They had servants and women, They were venerated An official from each clan which was carried with full pomp and pride to be worshipped. We're essentially talking and members of the elite were not allowed access They ate. They would sit and offer them corn beer To an extent, they were seen to be alive. Once the Inca mummies had their fill of all the energy that they could receive then they would return to their residence where they were preserved Like other Andean societies, The Mochicas, for example, as did the Chimu. It was once thought that the Incas didn't, but that was probably who tried to present them Even so, there were sacrifices. They're are even mentioned They were different the Mayas or the Aztecs, mostly children or young people special events A variety of different occasions Each community was asked As a general rule, These children were treated and were sacrificed in the mountains. That is where they were discovered using new methods It was right in the summits, that we found the remains of children. This discovery corresponded In Chinchero, by a massive Inca wall With its ancient temple and palace, protected the entrance Here, we get a clear sense of the Inca constructions some of which are still cultivated today. Chinchero is another palace. It too was a temporary residence which spread out behind it On two of the levels, of the mountains which are characteristic elements They were like little reproductions. It appears that the Incas and they drank libations because they could not access The Spanish arrived at a time by two Inca brothers. The North and the South, including the town of Cuzco They were half brothers, At the moment of the Spanish arrival, Atahualpa had won a great victory He also put to death all the families a group of several hundred people. We know, for example, and Tupaq Yupanqui despite their being the founders Only Atahualpa remained, and vitally of the town of Cuzco, He was controlling a huge territory containing a large number which the Inca struggled It came to a point If you have an empire from north to south, to a location 2,000 kilometers away and it would take several months. Then if a second rebellion you need another army, Pizarro and his men and marched up to Cajamarca. The situation worked as did the fact that many of the people seized this opportunity for change. Much has been said in favor of the Incas, but they were nonetheless For those who had been subordinated, was an irresistible opportunity When the Spanish arrived, they quickly understood with its pyramid-shaped and sole sovereign leader, cannot survive [French spoken audio] That's exactly what Pizarro did. He took several years Then in 1532, in northern Peru. He swiftly set out on the route heading for Cajamarca, When Atahualpa was captured, so he offered to buy his freedom by filling the room He offered a ransom payment, which was a common system Atahualpa made the offer, but Pizarro knew very well the Inca would recover and then the Spanish He knew that they would be hard pressed Pizarro sentenced him to trial, of having misused the Bible and assassinating He was charged with murder He was executed for his actions, which, though perfectly normal were, of course, As of that moment, They were the legitimate successors of the emperor that they had removed manipulated by the Spanish to facilitate [French spoken audio] It worked very well. Pizarro had a number of brothers. The only legitimate one was the man Then there was a bastard called Gonzalo, There was another According to the records, Lastly, there was Martin de Alcantara, who was Francisco's half-brother Then came his cousins, connected by a complicated network Diego de Almagro, is an unusual character. He was quite independent. At first, he was connected but later he wanted In order to understand Pizarro and Almagro of the conquistadors whose behavior we have to understand looting and plundering were widespread. [French spoken audio] These men took more They were no worse than many others. There was a sort of patronage whereby a leader The more he pillaged, and the larger his army, so the demands of his generosity We see that their approach A number of civil wars for various reasons: The crown put a stop to it all. At first, they sent in a viceroy Then other civil servants arrived and punished the conquistadors. Things ended very badly but in reality it was they, who in this brutal military context because many of them It's impossible to change history, but if Pizarro had arrived under Huayna Capac, because the empire Or it might be that much like the Romans, and other smaller civilizations This would have been typical that emerged throughout