What if I told you that you could start a print on demand business today without having a following, Well, after being a print on demand seller for just about 10 years now, I can vouch for that and So in today's video, I'm going to walk you to start a print on demand with no following. Now in this video, I'm going to explain but I'm also going to put so you can follow along, step-by-step on your own computer. With that being said, there's going to be a lot of information for us to cover today. I'm going to keep this All I ask is if you do enjoy this video, please just give it a thumb's up, and let me know down in the comments. Without further ado, let's All right, so if you want to start a you're either going to have a following, or you're not going to have a following when you're getting started. If you have a following, print on demand is an to make money from that following. So, when you see creators online most of the times that is being However, for those of you and you still wanna get into print on demand can actually be done a totally different way than and it does not require When someone who does not have a following wants to start print on demand, you can actually create designs, and you can upload them to Let me switch you over to the computer, and I'll show you a So, let's start on Amazon. This is a website that everyone knows. But what a lot of people Amazon is actually the largest print on demand website out there. So if you just go to the search, you type in something like give that a search. All of these shirts that you see here are going to be fulfilled So when someone's on Amazon, they're searching for they click on one of these shirts, they can actually buy the shirt which has not been printed yet. They can choose what kind a men's, women's, youth, girls. What color shirt they want And then, they can add it to their cart and purchase it just like Now you may be wondering how I know that this is done with 'cause this looks just like Well the giveaway is that it says, &quot;Amazon Merch on Demand.&quot; This is Amazon's print So, if you go to Amazon and you find this page, this But this is where you So, you can sign up to be a print on demand seller on Amazon. If you find this little you just click that, you answer some and you essentially apply to be a seller. Once Amazon gets back to you, they will approve you, or deny you, to be a seller on their platform. And just like that, totally for free, you can sell print on Now, just a quick note here. Amazon is the largest print but they are not the only print on demand platform out there. There's several other that you don't have to even apply to. You can just sign up with your email and start uploading your designs today. As we get further in this video, I will share the best platforms with you. I've been selling on a ton so I'll give you just the So, now that you've seen what on a print on demand market place website, that is how you start print When you create these listings, and you upload them to they get listed on Amazon, for example, and then there are so many every single day searching they just browse through, and when they find yours, So, you don't have to do any marketing, you don't have to have And all this traffic that's and buy them, is totally free. So with that being said, now let's get into the actual Let's go through the tutorial, that you wanna get into print on demand on these marketplaces, to Everything here is going and I'm about to take you right along. Okay, so the very first is we have to come up with ideas to create T-shirt designs about. So the first tool that I It is a totally free While it is still free to use, I highly recommend using it. I don't know if they're going to put this behind a paywall in the future. But if you logon to this, and you can just start this is a very powerful tool for print on demand. So what I recommend doing and say, &quot;50 hobbies,&quot; and This is going to start typing out with artificial intelligence, 50 hobbies that we can use as ideas to create T-shirt designs about. Now, while this is finishing typing out this whole list for us, over the years that I've I found out that the top two categories that T-shirt designs sell in Now, there are literally unlimited ideas that you could come up with between hobbies and occupations, and I'll show you how to out of each one of these Okay, so this is our initial list here. We got 50 ideas that we can go into. I already see some good ones. Wine-tasting, things like that. Now just to give you another pointer here, we typed in &quot;50 hobbies,&quot; on its own. You can type in things Or, you can type in &quot;50 men's hobbies&quot; or, &quot;50 indoor hobbies,&quot; You can get really creative with this and come up with more unique results. And then, these are the results we'll use in the next step So, now that we've got this really good brainstorm list of ideas, the next step is figuring out which ones of these ideas are not overly-competitive. In the last couple of more people have found out about the print on demand marketplaces. And more people have uploaded designs. So what that means for you is as you're just getting started, some of these niches like or photography, may be and it's not even worth your time to create a design into. So, that is the reason to check into these, before we spend time creating designs to see which ones have opportunity for us to actually get sales. So for the sake of saving you I'm just going to show you the tool that I've grown to use to do So what that is, is using a Now, if you've seen my other this is a tool that I use of my print on demand process. I've been using them for years, I can definitely vouch for them myself. Now before I get logged in, I do wanna be really This is paid tool. All you really need is But, it's about $10 per month. They do have a three-day free trial, so you can use that. You can do it for this tutorial And then I also have a that I can share with you guys. I will put that down in the description. That's for both the Newbie, 20% off for as many months But with that being said, let me get logged in and Okay, so once you're logged in, over on the left side are all the tools that I expanded to different that we'll use. What we want to start with here So, just click on that. And now, we just go back over and we can start copying these, and we can paste them into in the Keywords Box, hit Search, and it's going to tell us if we should go into that niche, or not. This does all the heavy lifting for you. It makes this process a lot easier. So, let's just start This is Reading, I'm going to copy that. Let's go over here, paste it and search. Okay, so just like that Now, I'm looking over This is giving you a letter grade. So just like in school you had an A, all the way through an F Well, this is saying that the letter grade for this niche is an F. That means there are far too many people that have already created If you're just coming in, you're going to have a really What we are looking for is an A grade. And that means that is a really good niche that not many other people have found yet. That's one that we want to go into. So that was the first one. Let's come back here, we're going to pick more We're going to search them. I like this one, hiking. Let's copy that. We'll come back over here. Let's paste it, and we're Okay, so we got our results here. Hiking has another F. It's just too saturated of a niche. So this is actually going to bring us into another tool here on Merch Informer that's going to blow your mind This is something that in print on demand. This is a tool that I love, and I'm happy to share it with you guys. So, if we taking Hiking, it's just too saturated of a niche. You go over to Keyword Research, you go to Keyword Finder, and we type in that Hiking What this tool is going to do is take the overall niche of Hiking and break it down into all of the sub-niches within Hiking. Literally in the matter of seconds here. So, we are search on Amazon, You actually have 500 results. I'm just gonna scroll back up top, and I'm gonna switch it from That way I can keep scrolling And this is kind of the secret The reason I'm so happy to share this, is because there are tens of thousands, probably hundreds of thousands of different sub-niches you can go into. But now we have a list of within Hiking, that other people aren't going So Adirondack Hiking. The Adirondacks are a specific You can create hiking designs What we're looking at here is the keyword, which is the sub-niche, how many people are every single month, and then the little button is the Details button. If you click on that, this is going to open up that just in the matter of seconds here, and give you the letter grade. So as you can see, Hiking had an F, but Adirondack Hiking has an A. So, there's our first As you scroll through Alaska Hiking. They got over 2,000 people Let's see what the competition score is. There's another A grade. So as you can see, we've So this is how you find those really good niches to go into. All right, so if you've gotten this far, you already know a lot about this process. There are a few more important steps. Once we've found these that have the A ratings, now we need to come up with the phrases that we're actually going for these sub-niches. So let's take one of these examples. Let's go with Alaska Hiking. So, I'm just going to copy that. Let's go back over to ChatGPT, and I'm going to say, &quot;Write and then paste &quot;Alaska Hiking.&quot; Give that a search, and just like that it's going to write you these ideas that you can use for your design. So as you can see, &quot;Trailblazing through the Last Frontier.&quot; This is just so creative, that's why you use a tool like this. &quot;Alaska, Where Every &quot;Hike Alaska-Breathtaking These are all just custom to that specific sub-niche So, as you find these low you can come through here, and come up with design ideas. I generally try to create in each sub-niche, and then So for instance, we have Alaska Hiking, 20 to 40 designs, Adirondack And then anytime someone searches that on the print on demand marketplace, there's already low competition. But anything they buy one of your designs. So now that we've got the next step you would think would be to take these and start creating these designs. I will show you that, but there's a very This is something that a lot of beginners in print on demand skip over, and it's something that can So, let me show you So, now that we've got these ideas, we need to check that to these ideas. There are laws in place and trademarks. So this protects not only artwork, but it also protects phrases. Things like this right here. So a person, or a company, to this specific phrase on T-shirts. That means if we use this phrase, and we put it on a T-shirt, and we go to sell it and that company can have They even have rights to the profits that we've made from those sales. So, that's why I say that this is a very important part of this process. It only takes a couple of seconds here. If we go back to Merch Informer, they have a tool for this built-in. So you just go to Trademarks, and now you can type in all of the phrases that you're thinking about using, and you can check them, all So, we'll go back over to ChatGPT. I'm going to copy this, and then come back over here, paste it, go to the next line. And we'll just copy a few of these, and we'll check them all for trademarks. All right, so I just put All you have to do now is just hit Save. This is going to drop those It says, &quot;Not checked yet.&quot; So you hit this big blue button that says, &quot;Check Trademarks.&quot; And then it says, &quot;We're &quot;Please allow a few minutes for results.&quot; If you just hit Refresh the results are typically instantly. So you can scroll right down here, and you can see that they So this is a good outcome. All of these are safe to use, That means that nobody so we're free to use them on our designs. Now I will say if you get a that means that someone and I do not recommend on any print on demand marketplace. You are just setting yourself up for some legal issues and for some trouble. So just like that, we can Now it brings us into the next step of actually creating the designs. So, I'm use going to take that I personally use. This one is called Placeit.net The reason that I use Placeit, and I've grown to use them over the years, is that everything on their and commercially usable. As we were talking about trademarks, that's for the phrase. Well the actual graphic, or the fonts, the layouts that your designs So, they can be owned by other people. When you go to other graphic not everything is copyright free. So you may create an amazing design, you go upload that to sell Well, you checked the but the actual fonts, or the graphic, could be owned by someone else, and they're trying to get your design taken down because of it. This one is going to be But I have a coupon I'll put that link down So once you are logged in here, you have full access to So just to show you some of this, if you click on Mockups for instance, this is what Placeit was You can create kind of photos of models wearing your specific design. You can even do videos, as well. This is super-helpful if you're going to do any or anything like that and you don't wanna actually hire models to take photos wearing your shirts, you can just upload the design onto a model, download and you have the rights to use that on your own social media. However, what we are going if you hover over Designs, go to Apparel, and go to T-shirt designs, this is going to give you something like 50,000 different T-shirt design Again, with full usage rights. Now, you can scroll through all of these. There's like 900 different pages here. What I would recommend for you to do is just type in the niche that you were trying to So let's just type in Hiking, that we're looking for templates on. And then, this is going to give you all of their results about hiking. But, it's going to mix in So, let's just come over to And go down here, and go This will give you just the T-shirt design It just makes it a lot to see what you're looking for. So yeah, these are all the templates that you can use to create your designs. You'll see a lot of these look like some of the best sellers on the platforms. Well, that's the template It's actually really cool. And you can create unlimited here. So there is no maximum cap with Placeit. So if you have a subscription, you can create 100, 1,000, every single month. So that being said, just click on one of these that you like. I'll show you how to edit them real quick. I'm just going to show a little bit bigger. We'll say, &quot;Okay, let's edit it.&quot; And this is going to bring So all these elements, you can click, you can drag, you can move them. If you wanna go back, If you got things like way out of whack, and you wanna go back to how you started, just hit the Reset Layout button. I find myself actually so it's super-useful. Now all of this text down here, is what we're going to be customizing. You don't actually click You go to the corresponding Whatever you change here, will change in realtime over on the right. So now let's go back to Merch Informer, and let's see what we could actually use. So, which ones are safe to use? Let's get started with the first one here. So, &quot;Trailblazing Through I'm just going to copy that. Let's come back over to Placeit, and I'm going to paste it up top. It's not going to fit all of it, so I'm just going to do, We'll put that first Then, I'm going to take it And then as I mentioned before, this button up top is Hit Reset Layout, it's going but with your new text. And then as you can see, the Now we can go to our graphic, and see if we wanna change anything here. The background on the let's leave that. But as you can see the you can hit edit, and you can change this to anything else. Again, all of these are going So as you click on these, it's going to change it in That's how easy this is to change. So you can click around, And once you find one that you like, you just X out, and now All I can say is when I I didn't have tools like this, so I was doing this all by hand. And I was spending a lot that were not as good as this. So this is extremely helpful no matter what level you're So now we pretty much got our design here. There's only one more important step. As you can see this background is brown. And we don't actually want We wanna remove the background, so it's just the design that that gets printed on that shirt. So, there's a little button right here that says &quot;Background color...&quot; Just switch that to this that is going to remove the background. If you are using a graphic design tool to create print on demand designs, and it doesn't have that you are going to have to do a lot of work to try to properly remove that Just being able to remove the background before you download the it's going to save you a lot more time. So here's our design. We just made it in couple of minutes here. We know that everything is copyright free and commercially usable. Now all you have to do It's going to say it takes just a second. And then you can hit You'll be able to put a name to this. So you should have it still You just paste this on here, and that's the title that we used. We'll save that, then we Okay so just like that, we And this is our design with no background. When you Zoom in, you can see So you're going to have no it being blurry or pixelated. And this design, just like to those print on demand Now as promised, we talked about Amazon being the largest print on but there are a couple of others that I really recommend uploading, too. Now, I'll show you these But something that's you can upload the same to all three of the websites There are non-exclusive, so you own the rights to your design. You can sell them on all three So the first one obviously As mentioned, this is how you find that, and you have to actually Since you can't get because you have to wait for them to accept your application, the other two that I would recommend that you can get started on the first day, first would be Redbubble. You can literally just sign and start uploading They are a full marketplace, all print on demand products, And then the other one that This is actually owned So, they're kind of both the same company. But, it's the same concept. You can create an account you can start uploading And both of them are going coming to their website just looking for T-shirts to buy. Now the cool part about this is, no matter which website the process is pretty much the same. So, I'll walk you through So, if you wanna start on Teepublic, just go to Create an Account. And just fill out first name, country, and set a password. So, once you've got this filled out, there is one more button here. It says, &quot;I'd like to &quot;in off-site marketing.&quot; I recommend leaving this turned on. This is just additional free marketing that they're going to do for you. If you do want to turn this And later on in the future, you can turn this back on in I recommend just leaving and then hit Create My Account. This is just going to send in your email, so just And then once you've verified it there, just go to Account, and go to Login. Now just use that same that you just set, and you Okay, so then you should that says, &quot;Sign in successful.&quot; And that button that now changes to Sell Your Art. So now you just click onto Sell Your Art. This is going to ask you do or do you have a bunch of We just made the one on Placeit, so I'll just hit Single File Upload. Now the first time around, you're going to run into &quot;You're new here, set This is going to be for on your account. It's not niche-specific, so I would just make sure or has profanity. Nothing that would deter anyone from making a purchase So I'm just going to call this GGTees. All right, Take Me To The Uploader. Okay so once you get here, you're basically going of Upload A Design icon you are uploading to. But just click on that, and it's going to allow you the one from Placeit, Once you've selected that, And then, here's our design right here. As you can see it has the so it's a transparent And just a little note... As you scroll down, you're isn't large enough to This is just a note if you wanted to print on a wall tapestry or a big wall canvas. Our design file is just So we don't need the to be super-high resolution if we wanted to print So you can actually just ignore because we are going to not on wall art, anyways. Okay so once we come down here, these are the couple of boxes And this process is going to be the same for the other platforms So first things first, the design title. So, I'm just going to paste This is the name of our design, Trailblazing Through the Last Frontier. That is whatever is on your design. That's what I recommend And then, the only thing is what that niche is in. So this is going to be Alaska Hiking. Now we're not actually going because something that's is they auto-populate what So, I'll show you what But for now, just know that T-shirt, or shirt, or anything Okay, so that is it for our title. What I recommend doing pasting it down here, and then we're just going Now, you could leave your You don't need to do anything fancy here. I would recommend just and just say, &quot;This Trailblazing &quot;T-shirt is perfect for those who love...&quot; And then you just leave so &quot;Alaska hiking.&quot; I'm gonna change that just to and say &quot;Hiking in Alaska.&quot; So just like that, you from the title, nice and easy, and you can turn that Okay then up on the right This is going to be the overall niche, so this will be Hiking. Now although this design is about Alaska hiking specifically, we don't wanna miss out on So, we can put hiking as the Main Tag. When you click in down here, you can see anything So, I would go ahead that also relate...camping, travel, mountain. And then, I'm also going to put in Alaska. Okay, this gives their system a good idea as to what our design is about. So when people are searching they know where to show us. Then you got one little option &quot;Does this design contain mature content?&quot; I would say no here. I don't recommend doing anything No profanity, no nudity. Although you can sell that kind of stuff, I think there's a lot in these regular, just I wouldn't go into that kind of category. And that kind of opens a can of worm, of potential problems you So over on the left we have Albums. These are kind of You really don't need to use these. So, I'm just going to move on from here. And this is going to bring us right into the second where we choose what this design is offered on. So since this is print on demand, we can offer it on a T-shirt, on a hoodie, on a tank top, crew neck, all of these different Because none of these These are all the items in their warehouse that All of them will get their own prices set. We just get to choose which So I would say kind of the first step here is to look at the kids. Does your design relate to kids? Is it made for kids? Is it not for kids? And that will tell you if or leave them off. Now, this could technically as we can just turn all If it's a design that's made for an adult, something like a nurse, an occupation that wouldn't be a kid, then you can turn those off. But once you've got that first step done, now we're going to do a the T-shirt. And now you're going to So when you pull up a listing, let me give you an example of this. If you come over to Amazon, Although you can choose the default color is the very So, when we come back over to Teepublic, what's the first color that we want here? So, I'm going to hit this drop-down, and you can hover over these, and see what looks really good to you. I'm going to put it on black, Just kind of a note here, most of these T-shirts that sell on print on demand marketplaces, Mostly Black. I don't know why this is, But just so you know, I would recommend as a darker color, or The only thing I would is if you have black text on the design, you're not going to be able So, keep that in mind. Okay so with that being said, we got black selected all through here. Baseball T doesn't come in all black, so you have to select I'm going to put a black And then everything else to make sure it all looks good. Now, a small note here, let's go back up to This is your scale right here. So if your design for some you can mess with the scale. So, you can make it bigger, If you go too big, it's going to cut it So generally, it's going to do But if for some reason just know that you can move it around. You can move it back to centered by using these guideline tools right here, and just play with the scale to make sure it all fits perfect. So just like that, we only have The next step is the colors Just like what we were all of these are available Those are the types of apparel. But you also have the different colors that could be printed in. Now the couple of buttons here It will select everything Or light, it'll be just You can do the same thing for dark, or you could do None, and you What I recommend to do is and then scroll through here, make sure everything looks good, and you can read everything on it. So the only thing that I'm seeing that could be a potential issue are any of the colors most likely going to So once you scroll over here, and you get to something like the orange, make sure that you can still read it. So you see how that text gets I'm just going to turn that off because I don't want anyone to order this and then realize that the print color is the same as the shirt and they wanna return it. Now a small note while If anyone ever does receive a shirt that they want to return they need an exchange, that is all handled by the print on demand marketplace We never even get notified as the seller. This is a really nice benefit to using these print as opposed to setting up your own store, and selling print on demand that way. So like I said, just go through here, make nothing is hard to read. This one gets a little bit I'm going to turn that one off. So that is the step on the colors there. Just make sure you don't black on black, other like orange on orange. And then we're down to and then we basically can So this last step is what other products do you want this to be available on? So obviously, we have the But they also do hats, you can see what that You can pick all of the colors. You can do stickers, wall art, all the way down. Now this section is something that comes from trial and error. So over the years that I have the vast majority of the sales have come from just T-shirts. Now you can leave all The only downsize to this is that one, you may not get many They're mostly all gonna And secondly, if you do you have to click them one-by-one, and make sure that the formatting So if I zoom in here and show you, that is really close on the bottom. So you really have to be so nothing gets cut off. You're going to spend quite a bit of time going through each one of these, and making sure that This is something that all of these extra things don't represent many of the overall sales. And they do take a to go through one-by-one and make sure everything The last thing you want that is cut off and then and that's just instantly So, you can go through these one-by-one, or you can just go in here and just leave the apparel on. That's where the bulk of these sales are going to come from anyways. I just wanted to spend why you'll see these turned off on mine. So, once you've done that section, just come down here and hit &quot;I have read and agree to and hit Publish. So if you've made it this you are officially a And you can do all of this As you can see, this is It's on the black color by default. It has our title that we set up here. And as I was mentioning before, it adds in the T-shirt at the end. So if we were to change like we changed it to a hoodie, it's now going to say &quot;Hoodie&quot; at the end instead of T-shirt. That's why they wanna be But, Teepublic is going to They're going to run sales for you. You just get a split of all And just like that, people can find your They can choose the size, they can pick what type And, they can add it to their cart and purchase it right there. What I love about doing is that you don't have to do anything else after uploading these designs. No marketing, no order-taking, no paying for the orders up everything is done for you. You can just spend time going creating more designs, and Now one last thing that to know about these print is a lot of them have tier systems. So when you are just starting out, they wanna make sure you are a real person uploading real designs. Some people have created bots and upload thousands of So in order to combat that, websites like this, Teepublic, Redbubble, Amazon Merch on Demand, they have these tier systems in place. So essentially what that means is when you just start a brand new account, you're going to get very limited exposure. As you start to upload legit designs, and they see that you are not a bot, you're not spamming their platform, they will switch you over on their marketplace. That is when what we talked about before, the offsite marketing when you signed up, all of that starts. It's free marketing that they're going to do for your designs. And just remember, every they make money, as well. So that is why they are willing to do all this additional marketing because when you make and they make money, as well. So that is how to start with no following. If you guys have any just let me know down in the comments. And if you enjoyed this video, please just give it a thumb's up, I really would appreciate it. All right guys, I hope this video has been super-helpful. And I will be seeing you