Delicious! Kobe, Japan 10 min. walk from JR Sannomiya Sta. Open in 2022 Chinese Cuisine Kobe Mien Arrival of owner Kobe Mien, owner Xinjie Wang(42) I will sharpen rice Making Chinese soup Boiling water is added (Photographer) What's in it? (Mr. Wang) This is chicken bones and pork bones Both (in) We will prepare fried and sweet-and-sour pork The salad to accompany the fried chicken is washed I usually make salads for 30-40 people for lunch. Every day Preparing fried pork for sweet and sour pork Kobe Mien's standard menu Preparing egg soup Carrots Bamboo shoots Salt and pepper Seaweed Vegetable Water-soluble potato starch Eggs scallion oil Tofu used for bean curd is boiled through Kobe Mien's most popular menu item Cutting the chashu pork. Fried rice is prepared Preheated white rice Tofu in hot water is transferred to a bowl (Mr. Wang) I'm going to start doing the fried rice now The pot is heated with oil Seasoning white rice for fried rice Salt Cooked rice is kept warm (Photographer) Do you cook all by yourself all the time? (Mr. Wang) Yes (Photographer) Isn't that quite a chef's history? (Mr. Wang) We've been around quite a long time I've been cooking since I was about 18. I've been studying since I was 18 I have been cooking for 25 years Preparing Chinese pickles that come with the set Pickles (Chinese pickles) (Mr. Wang) I am from Shandong, China This is the area where Qingdao Beer is from Everyone drinks Shaoxing wine at night So the regulars have a bottle to keep, but This is my hobby. This liquor is a Chinese liquor This liquor is 30 years old though (Photographer) Thirty years? (Mr. Wang) Yes! (Photographer) You've had this for 30 years? Mr. Wang's mother-in-law 11:00 a.m. Opening. Menu (Male customer) Szechuan-style bean-curd soup seasoned with red pepper paste (Mr. Wang) How spicy? (Male customer) The spiciest so Cooking Szechuan-style bean curd Potato starch dissolved in water Japanese pepper raayu (Chinese red chili oil) Green onion Szechuan-style mabo tofu set (Mr. Wang) Yes, thank you for waiting! (Mr. Wang) It's spicy! (Male customer) I wanted to eat spicy! (Male customer) Yes! It's my first time here. This Szechuan bean curd The next day after drinking (alcohol) It's very hard. I've always wanted to eat it. It was as spicy as I expected it to be It's nice and spicy. Service after-dinner coffee Group of regular customers arrive (Mr. Wang) Yes~! Sour pork as usual Wonton noodle soup The president is wonton noodles? Wontan noodles! Cooking wonton noodles Fried rice and sweet-and-sour pork cooked at the same time Fried rice in set Sweet and sour pork Wonton noodle (Mr. Wang) Here you go! Wonton noodle set Sweet-and-sour pork set (Male customer) I kind of like this (Male customer) I come here about once a week. This is a delicious Chinese restaurant around here. When I come here This is what I get every time Cooking spring rolls Spring rolls (Mr. Wang) (The spring rolls) have shiitake mushrooms and bamboo shoots (in them) Ours smells a little like chives. spring rolls Homemade owner's wife , at work (Mr. Wang) (Mrs. Wang) just dropped the kids off at daycare in the morning for a bit I'm going to go clean the house a little bit, rearranging it (Photographer)Your wife come after doing some work at home. (Mr. Wang) Yes, she does. (Male guest) Bean-curd soup with bean curd normal (medium spicy) (Male customer 2) And wonton set (Mrs.) Bean-curd soup seasoned with red bean paste, medium spicy, wonton set (Mr. Wang) Yes! Wonton set (Cameraman) Who can come now? (Mr. Wang) Yes! Regulars! They have a lot of regular customers after this time! (Female customer) Excuse me, there are three of us (Male customer) Tantanmen set meal. Cooking tantanmen Tantanmen set (Mrs.) Wontons. (Male customer) About once a week. Yes, because it tastes good after all I recommend the sweet and sour pork. These wontons are also delicious (Female customer) It's all delicious... (Male customer) Or shrimp mayo. Shrimp mayo is also delicious (Male customer) Delicious at night Delicious while drinking Delicious with rice! Regular customers arrive one after another (Mrs.) Bean-curd soup seasoned with red pepper, medium hot The kitchen is in full operation. Soy sauce ramen set Takana ramen set Mapo rice noodle set Szechuan-style mapo tofu and shrimp mayo cooked at the same time (Large) shrimp mayo (Mrs.) Bean-curd soup seasoned with red bean paste, medium hot! You can have more rice and soup when you run low! (Photographer) You've finished your meal! (Male customer) It was very tasty! It's a safe and tasty dish! (Mrs.) It's still slow today! (Photographer) Is this still slow? (Mrs.) Slowly! (Mrs.) Coffee service! (Photographer) Are the dumplings homemade? (Mr. Wang) Yes, they are. Everyone regulars are more likely to ask for boiled dumplings (than to order) dumplings Fewer people order yaki gyoza (grilled dumplings) Dumplings Looks like the dumplings are sold out now. Cooking stir-fried beehives Hachinos Fried Hachinos (to-go) Mabo noodles Sour Rice Noodle (Mr. Wang) This is much spicier Tangy pepper oil (tanjo-yu) This is amazing! This is amazing (spicy)! Hot and spicy rice noodle (Mrs.) stir-fried beehives and Sour rice noodle and Ma La Rice Noodle(Ma La Rice Noodle) (Male customer) Delicious! (Mr. Wang) Regular customers! (Photographer) I'm a regular customer! (Male customer) It's delicious! This place is! (Mr. Wang) Always introduces friends! Always spicy Always regular Yuba pak choi Stir-fried tofu skin (Male guest) Delicious Yuba Dried yuba It's firm and hard, but soft. my favorite Rice noodle, spicy Very spicy Very spicy That's a little too much! This is raayu It's spicy. Sansho (Japanese pepper) this is spicy Sorry to keep you waiting! (Mr. Wang) Ours is pretty spicy! Szechuan cuisine! (Male customer) It's spicy! Lunch business has calmed down (Photographer) What are you drinking? (Mr. Wang) Chinese tea! (Mr. Wang) I'm tired... LOL! (Mr. Wang) Very busy at this time of the day Actual meal Actual meal 1 (Mr. Wang) This is for one person about 200g This one from China (ordered) We have a factory in China, but I buy from my friend's factory Hot and spicy rice noodle Actual meal 2 Mabo noodles (Mr. Wang) Now this is mabo tofu for one person Mabo Noodles Actual meal 3 Fried rice Fried rice (large portion) Wang's mother-in-law receiving makanai (Mr. Oh) came to Japan in 2011 I've lived in Kobe all my life. Sannomiya And the store I used to work at. Close to Sannomiya (Photographer) In which? (Mr. Wang) shinsenkaku and Meikensou Sannomiya restaurant. A lot of our customers are Japanese. All the regulars are friendly Always busy Everyone fills their own water There are lots of great friendly places They've all become friends (Photographer) Thank you very much We got a lot of food. (Photographer) Xie xie! Revisited! (Mr. Wang) See you later! Thanks again~!