In the early 1940s the Nazis controlled Paris- maniac whose body count might have been as The cops wanted him, the Nazis really wanted so easy to catch. This is the story of the man who became known most messed up tales we've ever told. Let's start at the beginning. 1940 was a bad time for most Parisians. Before those German tanks made their way into Paris had already moved out. For those left behind and who understood the Their bones chilled as they watched the swastika Some of these were the people who'd be spied and possibly killed. It was a time of great fear and paranoia. So, the last thing anyone needed was a serial decapitated heads and other body parts for Nonetheless, Dr. Satan was a hero to many, him. As for the Nazis, it would be reasonable to ahead of them. His real name was Mr. Marcel Petiot. How he ever became a doctor boggles the mind, agree with after you hear about his strange He was born in the French city of Auxerre at a young age. At age 11 he brought a gun to school and used He got involved with theft, smashed up public animals. It's said he also put on a kind of circus locked door in class and throwing knives at It's not surprising then that he was deemed According to the book "Death in the City Paris", he got expelled from school a few times as who said this kid is just not right in his His parents, of course, were very concerned, the occasional convulsive fit. They were also a bit worried about his constant If you were to ask an expert now, they might head injury and that's what caused all the A psychiatrist in 1914 seemed to suggest his that he was "an abnormal youth" who didn't As you'll see, nothing really changed when Still, he ended up at a special Paris academy, he went to fight for the French Army in the go wrong, a kid with mental health problems to murder people? Physicians among the French forces said what mental health issues. The kid wasn't fit to fight. He was already walking close to the edges in battle, after which it's said he had At first, he was sent to homes where he could up the bad habit of stealing morphine and stuff and their letters and photos from loved For that, he got some jail time, but after one mental illness, he was sent to a psychiatric It was those diagnoses that kept him out of criminal, but mentally ill. One psychiatrist wrote in a report that he mental depression, melancholia, obsessions, If you're wondering what neurasthenia means, mentally disturbed. After three weeks' leave, he went back to During this stint, he complained of headaches At first, he was let go from the forces and a review, he got a 100% pension. He was still sent to the asylum, a place he'd In 1919, he was finally released from that The war was over. He was 22 years old. You could say it was time for a new beginning, man and studied his temperament said it was surveillance." That didn't happen. Being mentally ill or having a personality can't do well in life. Just look at the lives of many serial killers certain areas, and while they were busy cutting some had a wife and children at home who dearly So it was that Monsieur Petiot joined an accelerated and he absolutely nailed the exams. He landed an internship at a hospital and could proudly say he was the owner of a medical He then set up a practice in his town of Villeneuve region, and a place that would feel the wrath Now he was a professional, but his mental He even got arrested for stealing at one point, Petiot very likely had a touch of the psychopath with one being that he was very cunning and He needed more patients, so he went about He printed fliers that said so. One of them said: can keep up to date on the latest methods strides. This is why intelligent patients have confidence Dr. Petiot treats but does not exploit his That could not have been further from the He charmed his way into getting a long list program, thereby ensuring he got paid once It's said someone would come into his practice say, "Here's some morphine. That should fix it." No doubt it helped, but opiates are generally cold or a bout of tonsillitis. One time the recipient of his morphine was overdose. When a pharmacist told Petiot that no way for minor problems, he replied, "What difference Isn't it better to do away with this kid pestering its mother?" We should just say here that when Bayer first century, one of its uses was to give it to Heroin is basically strong morphine. It worked, because the drug tends to work and dangerous as hell. So, while Petiot might have had a point about up talkative kids, he shouldn't have been Those frontal lobes it seems were still not about the consequences of his actions. He spent most of his time alone, only coming smashing it into other cars. It was at this time in his life that he stole of his rented accommodation for theft. In 1922, the Commission de Reforme told him his disability pension. A doctor later said his tongue was badly injured convulsions. He added that Petiot had a "total indifference" How he kept his job as a doctor beggars belief, claim 50 percent of his disability pension. We guess it was the 1920s. You could get away with such things back then. He began an affair with the daughter of one Delaveau. After a few months, she disappeared. Neighbors of Petiot told the cops that they'd heavy package into the back of his car. The police looked into this but concluded It was certainly a strange case, though, seeing was broken into and burned to the ground. Later, something that looked like the trunk that day was pulled out of the river in the Inside it was the badly decomposed remains the cops didn't have ways of properly identifying Undoubtedly, this was his first murder, although If this story couldn't get any crazier - and rails - Petiot decided that he wanted to Being the trusted town doctor, he actually some guy to spoil his opponent's speech At one point, just after he finished his own bunch of fires were started. That was the work of Petiot's man and when won by a landslide. During his time as mayor, he got busy stealing from the town band, and a stone cross he didn't When he was accused of this, he said he was accusations were just his political enemies good name. In 1927, aged 30, he married a 23-year-old You probably won't be too surprised to hear in the region. They had a kid together, Gerhardt, and things Even so, Petiot was accused of stealing oil He was fined 200 Francs and sentenced to three decision reversed. In 1930, there was a huge fire at the house When the flames were finally out, his wife with what the cops said was a blunt instrument. 20,000 Francs was missing, too, and police to the nearby town of Villeneuve-sur-Yonne. On top of that, there were rumors going around of none other than Monsieur Petiot. He'd even been seen near her home on the The witness who'd seen Petiot was Monsieur He'd told the police that he would testify around, he had no choice but to visit Petiot's Fiscot was given an injection and three hours Petiot said the man had had an aneurysm. You're probably now seeing why he was nicknamed in this story. A few years later, all those complaints about resign as mayor. People were so fooled by this guy that the happened was just unfair. In 1932, he got a job on the council himself, it had been found out he was stealing electricity. The case went to court, with the judge saying "fantasy." He was subsequently sentenced to 15 days in As usual, Petiot appealed the decision, and In the end, he stayed out of jail and was Still, that meant the end of his council seat to shake off. With his character now tarnished, he made and criminality would soar to new heights. Petiot started what became a very popular documents at times so that people thought handing out morphine for just about any condition highly-addictive drugs, had people queuing He even had the audacity to counterfeit a had been as an intern working at a certain was that he'd been a patient there, not He'd just changed the word "interned" As crazy as it sounds, he kept his job after his stealing. Later, when he got out and was working again, so he could write death certificates. Now he could more easily knock people off. One of his victims was a 30-year-old woman She went to see Petiot about some painful that he'd surgically remove them. After the operation, she never again regained He drove her home in that state, and she was Her mother, Madame Anna Coquille, said something Her daughter had been in good health despite She ordered an autopsy, and it was found that of morphine. This should have rung alarm bells, but after had died of natural causes. Not long after in 1936, Petiot was caught arrest him, Petiot beat him up. It was after this event that the authorities He ended up in court again, this time crying funny attacks. He told the court to look at his army record ill, and the court didn't charge him in temporary insanity. Still, it pleased the court when they heard to spend some time in a sanitorium. But not long after he arrived there, he told mentally and he asked to be released. He said this lapse of madness was due to stress. He lied and said he'd been working on a sucked the poop out of people, and he said affected his mental well-being. The main psychiatrist for the court wrote but the judge concluded that Petiot was sane How very wrong he was. After his release at the beginning of 1937, law, including taking a break from stealing. Still, his one big transgression was tax evasion, percent of what he actually made. He went to court again for that, and again been driven to crime because of poverty. Yet again, the psychopath walked out of court As you know, in 1939 war broke out, and in Marshal Philippe Petain became head of the to change in many ways. For a lot of people, this was a distressing new opportunities. One of Petiot's first moves was making fake You see, many French folks were told by the and that meant a kind of slave labor. It seems they could get out of this with a to go to for one of them. On face value, it looked as though he was He treated French people who'd been wounded people, he learned a lot about the movements trying to hunt Resistance fighters. He helped spy on the Gestapo through something gave information to Resistance fighters so This is what he told people, anyway. Maybe it sounds quite heroic to you given been found out. The Nazis would very likely have tortured But remember he was a psycho, and because make it look like he was helping the Resistance. He even told them he had some kind of superweapon it look like death by natural causes. He told a big tale about working with some all kinds of lies about making bombs and booby All these stories only ever really happened help him make lots of money. He started telling people, mainly Jews and he could get them safe passage out of France All they had to do was hand him 25,000 Francs. In 1941, he bought a house on Rue le Sueur were sent on one of his so-called Underground Two of his customers were Joseph Reocreux These guys had been pimps, but what really an armed robbery while wearing Nazi uniforms. That was definitely a death sentence if they Petiot, now calling himself "Dr. Eugene", out of France. These two guys went to that house on Rue le couple who were said to be a pimp and his And hey presto, all these six people did in the time and money on getting them to South them. They weren't the only ones to go to that In fact, so many people heard about this place Petiot got quite the name. We don't need to tell you that he killed they'd safely escaped France. Even the Gestapo heard these rumors, with had to be caught immediately. Gestapo documents that were later found noted public about an organization which arranges by means of falsified Argentine passports." There was talk, but no one ever left Paris. Then the Nazis put a plan together to get One of their agents named Robert Jodkum blackmailed Dreyfus was told he had to find this guy and exit out of France. The plan might have worked, had Dreyfus ever He was certainly making hay while the sun He then killed a pregnant woman, and soon Braunberger, a Jew who'd paid Petiot for He also murdered Braunberger's wife. Petiot did the same with three German Jews, Soon after, the entire Wolff family just disappeared and Josephine-Aimee Grippay. More and more people went missing. These disappearances were investigated by was with a guy who was getting people out They had no idea he was killing them and had bothered. He was saving them a job. Not knowing, they were still intent on catching In 1942, the French police started making Body parts kept washing up from the River body parts. That, of course, is because Petiot would have It worked out well for him because it was to link them to any murderer. Still, things were about to get quite difficult In 1943, his fake network was infiltered by Beretta told the Nazis names of people who have enough information to lead them directly Some names were enough, though. Three of them were Raoul Fourrier, Edmond Each was arrested and taken back to the Gestapo It didn't take long for them to spill the Dr. Eugene 25,000 Fancs for safe passage Petiot was soon arrested by the Gestapo and let the Nazis know much about what he knew He was then sent to prison, although it seems storing and killing house on Rue le Sueur. If they had, they'd have had quite the surprise. The question is, and it did come up later, the Nazis? After what you've heard today, you'd likely It's assumed that the only reason why he know anything, and anyway if he told the Nazis have probably given him a pat on the back. So, he did eight months in prison and was to tell. Now he had the best story of all, and one enemies of the Nazis. He now had torture scars and stories of prison. Business, he thought while smiling, was about He was wrong, very wrong. That's because, on March 11, 1944, the neighbors had enough and had gone to the police saying stink coming from next door. That smell was unbearable, as if bodies were They also complained about the smoke that Police told the local firemen to check it stove in the basement from which flames were On inspection, they also saw that body parts They found bits and pieces of humans stored pit. This was a real-life house of horrors, with Not only that but there were also suitcases different people. Even though this was wartime, it was still France had a new mad man on its hands. Petiot was now a wanted man, but let's remember he was a French hero. They kind of ignored the news reports about a great doctor and a devout enemy of the evil Petiot moved around between these people, to change his appearance. If anyone asked, he told them the only people This seemed true enough when he joined the calling himself Henri Valeri. The FFI was basically the Resistance in its as captain leading interrogations. His stint didn't last long, since Paris But again, he saw an opportunity. He was captain after all. One day some of his men went to the house There, they threatened the man and called They took from him 2.5 million Francs and Some young folks had seen this, and they went They explained about the murder and all that Valeri said he'd take care of the matter, behind bars, and it seems the sequestered Only a few days later, the Resistance newspaper and Nazi collaborator named Petiot. The story said he was a "soldier of the At the same time, police in Paris were still Valeria was even hired to look for him, so He knew he had to get away, but he fell at At precisely 10.15 am on October 31 he was in Paris. He was carrying a gun, a large amount of money, a bunch of identities. In court, the defense argued that Petiot had those bodies at the house were not his doing. Petiot told the court that he'd only found but that they were likely the remains of collaborators He told them he was indeed a great patriot, of bombing campaigns and killing Nazis with this was pure fantasy. Meanwhile, many members of the Resistance had said he'd done nothing to help them. Petiot was charged with killing 27 people in cash, gold, and jewelry. None of this bounty was ever found. Some of the experts involved believed that In the end, he admitted to 63 enemies of France, killed, he said, "South America was a big never found, adding that some of his victims for the next war." In his psychopath way, at one point the judge attention and was instead doodling on some He then looked up at the judge and said, "I me very much." When he was told he was to be executed, he On the big day, May 25, 1946, he was said He was asked if he wanted to see a priest, to "take his baggage with him." A portable guillotine was then brought to When offered a glass of rum, which was protocol, His neck was shaved, his collar was cut, and A witness to the execution later said he "moved his office for a routine appointment." His head was then placed in the machine and ask you not to look. This will not be very pretty." At 5.05 am, the blade dropped, and as it did, Some people later said there was still a smile Now you need to watch " How Nazi Angel of Or, have a look at some of the most awful with "The Sea Water Torture - Nazi Camp