- What's up everybody. It's Enes here and Today is our first aircraft tour and we couldn't have The plane right behind me And it is without a doubt one of the most beautiful aircrafts I have ever seen in my life. It's been recently and on the outside by a And they have invited us out here to tour this amazing aircraft. It has two staterooms, over 2,000 square feet of interior space, exquisite finishes. And without further ado, (gentle music) (gentle upbeat music) All right everyone, we're on the exterior. First off, I want to warn everyone, It is super windy today. We're gonna do our best But we wanted to start on the outside because this is a Boeing 767 private jet. The scale is incredible. I love this exterior color here with the white and black tones. The plane has a very sporty look to it. And coming here, we Look how little I look and around the engine cowlings. They have this sporty Now I also wanna take everybody this way because we have one of the and look how little I This is insane. Private jets are supposed but this is essentially a commercial jet, converted into a private application and, looks great on the outside but I know everybody so let's go have a look. (gentle upbeat music) All right everyone, here On my left we have the but first I wanna take There's a bathroom here dedicated for the staff and the pilots, and going in, this is I'm gonna take a seat here because I've never sat And this is super cool. I mean, we're in a We have the controls, windshield is actually but it just feels very - [Mikey] Yeah, would you - I would love to. I would love to learn how to fly. - [Mikey] I'd love it, this This probably takes a little more skill than like a Cessna. - Maybe not this kind of level, you know? - [Mikey] Yeah, yeah. - All right, let's go back out. Let's show everyone the galley. It starts right here. We have the galley on the back, crew seating area on this side and you can actually create with these leather curtains Another thing I want to do, I always wanted to sit on Let's have a look. - [Mikey] I've been flying and I've always wanted to - It's really comfortable. - [Mikey] Of course, you you're not gonna be allowed to do that. - They're not gonna let you do that Mikey. But you have two crew seating here and let's go check out the galley. This one is a small one but refrigeration, coffee maker, to service the clients. And on this side, another leather curtain closes off the crew's seating area. You have this long leather Two tables attached to the wall. In fact, Mikey, let's go this way. We have a electric recliner chair here and this is how you open one Get some work done, eat your you know? - [Mikey] It looks comfier than my flight to Port Lauderdale. - Absolutely. You have suede cladding Wool carpet on the floors. Gorgeous finishes. Design elements of this All right, now this is where that takes us all the way You have all this storage suede clad walls, textures, details. It looks so warm and actually We have a nice art installation And this is the space that Now, let's go check out the first room on our left hand side, which starts right here. This is where we have the first stateroom and look at this space. You have your queen size bed. Storage areas, comfortable All these windows bring in natural light. You have your reading lights. This space is just amazing. - [Mikey] Yeah, this is I've ever seen. This is a real size bedroom - Real size bedroom up in the sky. I mean, I can only imagine taking a flight to Europe and - [Mikey] Have you ever been - I have been, twice - Twice? like hour and a half. - [Mikey] I bet you've that has a queen size bed. - This is the first time I I mean, this is just mind-boggling. The amount of volume we have here, now all these windows, in If I can find, there you go. Your blackouts. You need them, right? For a good night's sleep. You have your night stands And this is where we have for your TV, lighting, Again, you have your reading lights. It's a great cozy space and it gets better because this door opens dedicated for this stateroom. And again, look at the volume here. You have a double vanity brushed nickel fixtures. This recessed in section, And the cabinetry, this gloss finish. All these drawers with a lock mechanism. This is incredible. You have a full size shower with a shampoo niche and it And look at all these polished, and details and obviously every little detail is a precision cut and fit and finish, suede walls. I'm getting outta control. I'm pointing out everything I see. - [Mikey] It feels very much like we're on a very nice yacht right now. This bathroom. - Absolutely. You know, in a funny way, both yachts and planes are They're working with limited spaces and they wanna make with as much as utility as possible. - [Mikey] Yeah, and I guess yachts just have to deal with salt water too, so. - That's right. - [Mikey] But planes - Air, but Mikey, one more detail, obviously you have a little By the way. This is your toilet. It's just a really elegant one. Or you can just sit down here. - [Mikey] I thought it - This is incredible. We're in a full size on a private plane. 767, incredible. You have all these built-in closets, additional storage area here, your TV, and this room connects to the next section because this is a private dedicated for the stateroom And again, fit and finish here. This is leather recliner chair. You have this built-in L-shaped sofa here and all the materials when upholstery and finishes here comes from Loro Piana and Garrett Leather. They're aviation grade. And they just look so dialed in. This recliner chair with the black piping. And you know, obviously and adjust the legs. And let me take a seat here. These tables, they all fold. You can actually raise or you can actually lower them And you have your seat belts here. Can you imagine flying like this? - [Mikey] You said What makes something aviation grade? - I'm assuming, obviously, or like durability, it probably needs to fit certain standards in order for it to get on a plane. - [Mikey] I guess you don't at 40,000 feet. - You know, I'm sure the on planes than like normal - [Mikey] Yeah, guys, this So... - We're learning too. I'm sure we'll know everything. - Absolutely, absolutely. You have some cabinetry here. You have these iPads on that way you can control all that good stuff. You have a TV here, a lot of storage areas and keep in mind, each one of these rooms, you can actually access them or main hallway, but in this case, we just got connected from the stateroom. Now, let's go check out the next room, which is another lounge or I say that because each one of these sofas have bunk beds, built-in That way you can actually utilize it as a bedroom or in this case, leave it like it is and You have the seatbelts, three coffee tables that are adjustable. Or you can leave them folded And you have some overhead Built-in storage on the bottom, your cup holders where you We all like 'em. - [Mikey] Of course. That's one thing that doesn't They always have Fiji Waters. - Well said, Mikey. Well said. Just a very comfortable space. And I wanna mention something. I think the difference versus a wide body is the fact that you can during a flight. You can come here, sit down, watch TV. You can go to your bed, Go have dinner with someone versus on the smaller private jets I feel like you just sit down You know, you're almost - [Mikey] You can go explore in this one. - Look at this, we're just And this is another lounge And, of course, since this it has its own bathroom. And we have the same finishes also here with this white marble, two recessed in section where recessed lights. Your electrical outlets and Mikey I have to do this for you. Ready? - [Mikey] Oh wow. There we go. - On a plane. - That's right. that at 40,000 feet later though, no? - Hopefully, one day. And we have the built-in It looks very elegant again, Incredible, look at the - [Mikey] Yeah, really awesome. - And of course around the corner we have this walk-in shower. Mikey, can you get a closeup It's so cool. Center section is a little bit elevated and drains are nicely tucked around it. Shampoo niche, beautiful fixtures. Rain head above, just amazing bathrooms. All right, let's go back to check out the main lounge. This space is all open. We have the seating area All these windows are You have your coffee table, 80-inch TV, built-in storage, your I mean, this space is incredible. Look at the volume here. Look at the finishes. It's so exquisite. Again, I've never seen - [Mikey] Yeah, and How many people is this - So, you can fly up to 33 people here. You can sleep up to 17. This plane can fly up to 12 hours. So you can easily go to Eastern Europe, or do like an LA to London flight. The market value of this is somewhere around $38 million. It takes $12,000 an hour which is not a cheap number. - [Mikey] That's not as bad as - I thought it would - [Mikey] If you have how many people? 33? Is that what you said? - [Mikey] Yeah, I mean, but if you have 15 people... - You can justify the price like very easily. And you need two flight Main pilot, a co-pilot, So here are some fun facts for you. - [Mikey] Yeah. - Amazing, right? Let's continue, again all this storage space. You have your built-in fridges Lighter tones, your dark carpet. And look at this dining area. I'm gonna take a seat here. Wow. Just finishes here. By the way, all the wood cladding that we've been seeing throughout, Which is a technique and basically perfect Again, leather seats with the black piping and these ones are actually adjustable. You can move them forward, turn them to the side, And can you imagine just sitting down here having an amazing meal - [Mikey] Yeah, we've talked about a lot but we haven't really talked or anything like that. I'm sure when you're flying you have really good - I'm sure you have a that arranges all that for you. And speaking of, kind of management, I also wanna give big That's the company that did the overhaul and remodel of this plane. And I think they've done a phenomenal job. Just the fit and finish, How comfortable each one And it looks great on the outside. It looks incredible on the inside. I'm just honestly kind of speechless. This feels like a very, very You know, it's like the the color palette, everything about it. And big thanks to them for What a chance, right? - [Mikey] For sure. This is an incredible experience. - Amazing, let's continue our tour. It gets better. By the way, we have another TV here. Another leather curtain because you have your and this one sits up to eight people. You have these tables that can or dining table. Again, they fold, so you You have overhead storage, two TVs. Just another comfortable space. And going in, we have This one is more like a You have a nice seating area. That's also your water closet. You have a vanity here, marble finishes, pretty straightforward, but and getting back out, we And, this one obviously is bigger. Has everything you need. Hot water, cold water, dishwasher, storage areas, fridges, ovens. It's pretty incredible. I mean, again, 767, so you Off of the entry you have that we saw off of the entry of the plane. And right here, we have an air stair. Which is basically your that takes you down in case doesn't have one for you. I mean, this is the private experience. This is awesome. I didn't even know that these jets can have their own staircases. - [Mikey] Yeah, I guess it makes sense. There's a lot of airports that probably don't have the you know, unloading and offloading people in a jet this high. - Absolutely, it's the You'll literally have your own staircase and what an amazing aircraft what an incredible day it's been. And I'm so glad we came to Florida to check out this amazing aircraft. (gentle upbeat music) All right guys, that's it for the tour. I hope you all enjoy this video. And I wanna give big for allowing us to tour and share it with all of you. I also wanna congratulate them for doing such a phenomenal It only took them six months and every corner, every detail You can find more information about them in the description of this video. So make sure to check that out. Lastly, if you enjoyed the tour, make sure to give us a like, subscribe and we'll see you guys next week. (gentle music)