Hi all! This is Olesya. Welcome to my channel and my videos. In CC settings, select the desired language for subtitles. What are we going to do today? First, I'll make some coffee. I drink coffee and tea without sugar. But sometimes I like to add marshmallows to my coffee. I want to make a Christmas tree from natural materials in classic colors. I already have two snow-covered Christmas trees like this, I really like them. It is necessary to protect the table with film. On cardboard, I measure 45 cm from the corner, making notes as often as possible. Of course, my beloved assistant is always nearby. I round off at the marked points. I roll our cardboard blank into a cone Secure with a stapler and hot glue. Now we need to make the bottom. I cut off the excess cardboard along the edge. Don't worry if the bottom is not perfectly level. You won't even see it later. Now we will cover our blank with burlap. We need two pieces of burlap for the cone and for covering the bottom. It is good to coat the bottom with PVA glue or any water-based wood glue. Make slits to make it easier to wrap the bottom and create fewer wrinkles. You see the bottom of the cone has become much neater. Now we will cover the cone itself with burlap. I made the blank for the Christmas tree in the evening and left it to dry until the morning. Now comes the most interesting work. I use small balls of thread, small Christmas balls and various natural materials nuts, acorns, wine corks, chestnuts various cones, saw cuts, twigs, tree bark dried flowers, date pits, pine cone halves I use pistachio shells to make flowers all over the cone. I glue them with hot glue First we glue the largest natural materials onto the cone. And we move from big to small. So we fill all the empty space with natural materials, moving evenly throughout the entire cone. Don't forget to glue Christmas balls and small balls of thread Feel free to show your imagination. You can also use branches of the Nobilis Christmas tree, it does not crumble at all. First I fill the cone with large parts, then I fill the small voids with small parts. I will add volume using red burlap. It remains to fill the smallest voids Date pits will come in handy here. You can make such a Christmas tree with spices, cinnamon sticks, cardamom, nutmeg, star anise, etc. All that remains is to lightly snow our Christmas tree. I won't bleach it too much, I want to leave more natural colors. A little whitening of the details will give the required volume. I'll also add sisal for airiness. The Christmas tree is ready. I think she's beautiful. In a classic color scheme, perfect for the kitchen. I'll put a Santa hat on her, it turned out creative. It's time to decorate the Christmas tree. But I'm scared..lol.. I immediately hang the garlands. Christmas tree decorations consist of 95% hand-made toys. Thanks to these toys, your Christmas tree will look a little vintage and very cute. The flying pig is too good)))) Gnomes, mushrooms, gingerbread man and candy canes look great on the tree. Add wooden toys. Allow yourself to plunge headlong into the world of childhood, feel like a child. At the very end I will add Christmas balls. This is Nyusia's first Christmas and New Year. I hope the tree survives until the holidays))) I'm sure that Nyusya thinks that we decorated the Christmas tree for her))) By the way, the Christmas tree with toys has already fallen once. I had to tie a weight to a tree leg and hide it behind my suitcase. You often ask about this gnome. This is young Santa. Maybe someday we'll make one like this. Nyusha's favorite toys are all kinds of boxes. We need to figure out what to put under the tree as a gift for her. The Christmas tree, although small, is fabulous. I'll add the finishing touches. In fact, my jewelry is quite simple and modest. Let's bake cookies that are perfect for any holiday, especially Christmas or New Year. 100 grams of butter at room temperature, a pinch of salt 160 grams of sugar, vanilla powder Mix all ingredients together thoroughly. Add 50 grams of cocoa powder and mix thoroughly with the rest of the mixture. Add 2 eggs, mix and you can beat the whole mixture with a mixer. Add 1 teaspoon of baking powder and gradually add 150 grams of flour The dough turns out to be so liquid. Place in the freezer for 1 hour until hardened. After an hour the dough is ready. Now you can easily sculpt from it. Form into balls approximately the size of a walnut. Roll the balls generously in powdered sugar. I will leave the recipe in the description under the video in the information field. Bake in a preheated oven at 180 C for 15-20 minutes. Let the cookies cool for 10-15 minutes on the baking sheet, then transfer to a plate. The cookies are very beautiful, as if covered with snow. Very tasty cookies, if you haven't baked these before, I wholeheartedly recommend them. You can even give these cookies as a Christmas gift, pack them in a beautiful box and give them to your neighbors, for example. Winter this year is simply fabulous! The weather can change at any moment, so have time to enjoy what you have today. The trees dance so beautifully under the weight of the snow caps. Thank you for visiting my home and sharing these little moments of life with us! See you in the new video. I'm waiting for you in the comments! May your Christmas preparations be filled with happiness:)