Hey everyone, welcome! Are we having fun at DevCore? One of the things I love about this Every single day, I learn something new about Bitcoin. I had that experience again today, I wanted to talk about security today. If you listen to the trolls on Reddit, Instead, I decided that I will talk about parenting If I talk about things I don't know, Parenting has changed a lot. In the last couple of decades, My sister just had a baby and I have been watching It [feels] really strange, watching these parents. It is a miracle we actually made it, that we survived. Today's parenting involves gallon jugs of Purell. If you watch these parents, they give him a Purell shower right That is not the experience I had. I grew up in the '70s. We would make mud cakes. We would eat the mud cakes. Mostly because they weren't around. They would say, &quot;Get out of the house, You must wonder, how did we survive without Purell? If you read some of the recent studies, the rates of asthma and allergy are through the roof. Turns out, if you raise a child in a sterile environment, This [stimulated] a new round of parenting recognising We realized that eating mud cakes in the garden You don't get allergies or asthma [nearly as much]. For example, in the third world, children don't have Why? They have even more robust immune systems from the moment they are born, In the other extreme, you have this Do you remember that story of Bubble Boy? It is a tragic, true story about a child There are such strange cases, medical tragedies or they lose their immunity through some kind You must be wondering, 'What the hell is he talking about? I thought 'Here we are, listening to stories of There is a point to this, hang on. I'm talking about this because it has If you isolate a system from external influences, you just don't know about the bugs the system has. If you expose a system to external attacks you just know about the bugs it has, In the process of fixing them, This [relates to] a discussion I want to have about and isolated blockchains. In my mind, an isolated blockchain is Bubble Boy. A system that is isolated from the world, Banks are like a paranoid helicopter parent, Guess what these ledgers will get? The worst case is that, eventually, the bubble bursts. You have a scenario where the system has been isolated When it is exposed to some horrific deadly thing It has such low immunity that which a properly stimulated, properly raised This isn't the first time we've had this discussion. This [is part of] the realization that security-by-obscurity, and [network] perimeters, and instead trying to When I was first on the Internet in the early '90s, I talked and [start using] &quot;this email thing.&quot; They said many of the same things &quot;Well, we don't know anyone who uses email.&quot; &quot;None of the other banks use email. Secondly, &quot;[the open internet] thing out there Thirdly, &quot;our bankers might say &quot;How do we add a long disclosure form at the bottom?&quot; &quot;What happens when our people can communicate That is a recipe for chaos, anarchy! Of course, they were right [about that]... they just Many of us in this space probably do. What did the banks and large corporations Did they connect directly to the internet and build robust They built moats, walls, firewalls, and demilitarized They walled themselves in with these military analogies. Did they deploy the common open-source protocols, They deployed highly denatured, weak They built intranet websites with stale during working hours through a VPN, They said, &quot;Look! We're doing internet. That is how they 'did internet' for a very long time, The prevailing idea was, by building isolated Because they could control things through the firewall, Now we know that was an illusion. These isolated systems [they built] were 'Bubble Boy IT,' Outlook had bugs. FrontPage had bugs. A lot of the time, they lived behind walls. Eventually, someone goes inside the bubble The problem with bubbles is, you can't trade If you are a business, you do commerce. A bubble is antithetical to commerce. A laptop, which they will take outside the firewall, bring back into the firewall, and give to everyone else. Bubbles didn't work on the internet. A whole generation of companies come to the realization that, in order to be nimble and effective, they can't be HP / EMC / Cisco / Oracle / Microsoft First of all, that shit is expensive and doesn't work. It doesn't have immunity. Now we see this generation of nimble young Their products, internal systems, collaboration, [Open-source projects] happening They collaborate using Gmail and other Their internal systems are external; there is no They are building [more] robust applications because, They are more secure. They learn to Those companies are thriving. Even before the era of whistleblowers and Anonymous, get inside, take all of the information, and give it out. You are probably thinking, 'Well, if permissioned then the wild open internet and Bitcoin A system that has immunity, something That might have been the analogy I wanted, Bitcoin isn't the kid that eats mud cakes. Bitcoin is a swarm of sewer rats. [Laughter] like those pigeons you see in Trafalgar Square, And what do they eat? Raw sewage and your trash. There is nothing in this world with more strength Or even, God forbid, a squirrel. A rat will not have allergies. This thing is already carrying three variations That is exactly what Bitcoin is. DDoSed [every day], out there in the open. Hell yes. Everyone is trying, for six years. The best and the brightest, the meanest and most at this deformed swarm of sewer rats, God knows how many other nodes that are exposed What do the banks do? They build permissioned ledgers. Do you think permissioned ledgers suffer from Do you think the altcoins suffer from They just don't fix [those vulnerabilities], That is just one of the thousands of bugs, that we will find while living out there in the wild. We will build this incredibly robust Beyond the idea that you could have the idea that a decentralized consensus system The only reason banks are at the point is because they have finally reached bargaining -- the third stage in the five stages of grief -- They start with denial. The basis of denial is: &quot;This thing won't work, Then they say, &quot;It is just silly [internet] money &quot;Nobody else will play with it.&quot; Except that they are. &quot;Serious investors won't put any money in this.&quot; We [move] from denial to bargaining. Somewhere in between, there might be Eventually, they will reach acceptance, If you look at the Internet, we [have spent] Twenty-five years, and there are [still] plenty of they put their Oracle / EMC / HP / Cisco / Microsoft shit They are still building Bubble Boy intranets. It will take [even] longer in finance. Not only are decentralized, open-source protocols, living in the wild -- that is a feature If you look at a permission[less] ledger and say, &quot;Can we have it without the open, decentralized, Well, you just threw out the baby with the bath water. You will never build a bubble strong enough Ironically, [they are building these permissioned ledgers] They are leaking so much from every orifice. They don't have confidential transactions, They have completely [malleable] ledgers. Know-your-customer (KYC) and anti-money laundering When that database leaks, it will not only of transactions but That is what they're building, panopticons The truth of panopticons: when you When it is [the rest of the] internet I'm not so worried about my financial information But when Angela Merkel's phone numbers Three days ago, internal presentations... from the Department of Defense about their Four billion eyes staring back. The question we should be asking do you really want to put KYC/AML on Bubble Boy? If you add all of that information, when the database you will give Anonymous and WikiLeaks historians The secret slush budget of Lockheed Martin. The black budget your government used for bribes or to install an oil well in pristine rainforest. All of that shit will be on WikiLeaks, You will provide the rich KYC metadata that you Meanwhile, we will build Bitcoin with You should re-think this panopticon, Building resilient systems is about That is how you build resilient systems. I'm not scared of permissioned ledgers -- denatured, Those will not scale, they will not survive, But they will backfire badly. That lesson will &quot;Sir, we had the drone assassination but someone burst through the bubble.&quot; &quot;All right, call the General. Get me two bubbles, &quot;Sir, they burst through our double-bubble.&quot; &quot;If we paid Lockheed Martin $100 million dollars, to hide all our data?&quot; &quot;Sir, it lasted thirty seconds before Anonymous ripped it &quot;Hmm, I wonder if we can build more bubbles?&quot; They think having [minimal] data on the Internet, It isn't weakness. That sewer rat isn't weak. It is the strongest thing we can build, Wrapping it in a bubble doesn't make it stronger. until a pale, immuno-suppressed little lab rat with red That is what security is, a process of openness In that process of dynamically becoming we are introducing Bitcoin into central banking, centralised monetary systems that We are introducing a robust, It is already robust today; it is not perfect, it has bugs, We revel in them, discuss them, invite people to attack. That is why we win. While they are building Thank you. [Applause]