(upbeat music) - So many people sent me this simulation of water pouring through And it makes sense that you sent it to me 'cause this is the kind of thing So of course when I saw it, I actually made four mazes in total, a simpler one and a more complex one, and I also made large Let's look at the small mazes first, because when you see it'll be obvious why I And by the way, this simulated version does eventually fill up and it's very satisfying. But if you want to see that ending, you'll have to go to link in the description. Okay, so here's the simpler maze first. And what we find brilliantly the maze without taking And actually that makes sense because every time the water comes up against an incorrect path, well, the air inside the So while the water is into the incorrect path, the air pressure inside that If I had to characterize this the algorithm would be something like, try all paths simultaneously which is cool. When the tank runs out it's fun to watch the air bubbles solve the maze as well. And actually it's quite different to Bergman Joe's simulation where the water eventually even after it's found the solution. What about the more complex maze? Well, first one, I chose the takes the player all the way Well, already something seems to be amiss, like there shouldn't be any water here, or at least not yet. And there shouldn't be or at least there is following the same So what's going on here? Well, the explanation is quite simple. I just didn't build a watertight maze. The reason I didn't is because it's really difficult. Like I've got three layers a black layer, that's the maze itself, and two clear layers And the best way to bond is with solvent that literally on both sides so that they weld together when the solvent evaporates. That's easy enough when to the first clear layer. The solvent simply seeps But then when you put the well, how'd you get the solvent in there? A fun side note. One thing you realize very quickly when you laser cut a maze is that mazes are always made of two separate pieces. I mean, it's obvious but it's quite cool to see. Actually a maze becomes very easy to solve if you color the two parts separately. But anyway, why did I Well, look, I stated that the reason water doesn't go in here is But why doesn't the air just bubble out so the water can get in? Well, it's because of surface tension. The air is unable to bubble past to the surface tension of the water. So if we make the maze bigger until surface tension we should expect the maze to We should expect the water to use a different solving algorithm. Maybe something closer to in his simulation. By the way, for the larger maze, I had the genius idea of into the outer clear the solvent in once the But anyway, here's the And you can see without the the water finds the lowest Sometimes momentum plays a part so it will fill certain paths But broadly without surface tension, the water tries more paths If I had to describe it in it would be something that takes you lower and then take the next lowest path. We'll get to the more But first, let's compare this More of the maze becomes full of water, but it doesn't fill up like Like water can never get into this region, or this region, or any of these regions. And you can see why. Again, it's air pressure. Except it's not surface tension that's holding the water back, it's just the geometry of the thing. Like air would have to go down before it could go up in this scenario. So it simply doesn't because So my hunch is that what's going on in Bergman Joe's simulation is that there is no air in his simulation. It'd be very difficult for me to recreate that with my setup. Like even if I could do this in a vacuum, well, in a vacuum the Maybe I could try it with in a vacuum. That sounds hard. Here's the more complex maze. There is a slight leak here, but it's water leaking from I don't think there's any within the maze itself, And just like with the simpler maze, the water goes to all the before it's locked out by the geometry. They say that if you are just put one hand on the wall and you'll eventually get out the maze. Though, I suppose if there through the maze, then the of three parts instead of that I showed you before. And if you happen to put then you'll just be But anyway, one thing I with this water maze grinds to a halt when there's And I think that's because there are lots of little bits of surface that need to be overcome. But together, those little add up to enough resistance from the tank just isn't enough Like there's a little bit that's preventing the Another bit of surface tension They're all resisting the but together they present of resistance. It's a bit like those coin games. You know, you roll your coin in, it gets pushed off the first shelf, but then nothing happens Or maybe something does but there's no way anything's The final thing I want to if I change the color of the It's fun, isn't it? You can see that the and slowly starts to creep So there you go, water can solve a maze. It doesn't look anything like not that Bergman Joe's it's just simulating something here in my studio. When I was given careers advice at school, I can tell you for sure on YouTube was not one of the mainly because YouTube But also I feel like they the right questions. So how do you find good careers advice? Well, for people that a fulfilling career that makes then I strongly recommend checking out the sponsor of this video 80,000 Hours. And I'll say at the top that what they offer is absolutely free. They're a nonprofit on helping people find careers that solve the world's biggest problems. And there are two things The first is that it's evidence-based. Their insights come from alongside academics at Oxford University. The second thing I like of different tools You could start by looking for example. Those are the things in Or you could start with that help you to find a career Or you can dive straight into There's even a podcast if And then there's the job board, which they have curated says are high-impact careers. The best way to get started is to go to 80,000 dollars.org/steve of their in-depth career about what makes a high-impact career, get new ideas for impactful paths, make a new plan based and put it into action. The link is also in the description so check out 80,000 Hours today. I hope you enjoyed this video. If you did, don't forget to hit subscribe, And the algorithm thinks (upbeat music)