My name is Qin Shiyue Five years ago, I was just an ordinary working girl. And now Mr. Qin I represent the International Business Alliance and representatives from five countries. Please Stop the trade war We are willing to offer 30% of the shares And reached a permanent cooperation agreement with Tianlong Group No second thoughts Since everyone is so sincere Then I declare the five-nation trade war over. Tianlong Group will cooperate with the Five Nations Alliance for win-win results Hahahahahahaha It's been five years. It's time for me to go home. Depart for Gan County tomorrow Help me get ready Chairman of the world's largest Tianlong Group Today we will arrive in Gan County Welcome Chairman Welcome Chairman Chairman, everything you ordered has been arranged. Yaochi Manor will hold a welcoming banquet for you in three days. Very good, how is our Qin family doing? The Qin family has received your secret help in the past five years. Has risen from a low-class family to an upper-class family Your brother-in-law's company It has also become the second largest enterprise in Gan County besides Wan'an Steel Plant. This time home I want to be more low-key You don't have to follow me good That's right Prepare a gift for my grandma's birthday party yes quick Isn't that Li Yuehua's daughter? Look at her poor appearance. It must not be mixed well. She has been working away from home for five years, right? No man follows I'm glad to come back Yes, in our county A girl of her age who is not married yet That's the sinner Your household registration book is here. You must go to the Civil Affairs Bureau today to get your marriage certificate. You are already 30 years old She's already an old girl. You have brought shame upon our entire family. Mom, calm down. Sister, you just came back and you're already mad at me Lili is still well-behaved and sensible You learn from your sister. Find a good husband It can also help our Qin family squeeze into the upper class family You've been out there for five years. Nothing I'm living well alone now. Besides, Qin and Zhang can achieve their current success. All thanks to my secret support You're a working girl. A monthly salary of two to three thousand yuan Why do you support me? sister Are you stupid because you went out to work? Don't pretend to be anything. Zhang's current It's all thanks to the favor of that big shot. Big shot? I'm afraid you haven't even seen the face of an important person? How do you know it wasn't me? Sister, you should know your limits when bragging. We grew up together. Don't I know what you look like? Look at you You can't even take out 100 yuan, right? Okay, okay. Stop arguing It's rare for Ah Yue to come back, you all should be quiet. Yo Shiyue is back Shi Yue, you should be 30 this year, right? A 30-year-old girl can't get married No one dares to marry you. Is 30 already an old girl? That aunt is 60 years old this year Aren't you an old woman? you Yuehua Is this the good daughter you taught? Are you just going to talk back to your elders like this? Can you speak If you can't speak, just shut up. Our Qianqian is still well-behaved and obedient Found me a good son-in-law. My good son-in-law He will soon be promoted to deputy director of Tianlong Steel Plant. Tianlong Steel Plant? That's the largest enterprise in our county. There are a lot of golden bachelors there, right? In a few days I will ask my son-in-law to introduce someone to Shi Yue. I heard that there is a 40-year-old security guard in their factory who just got divorced. He and Shi Yue are a good match. 40 years old? Security guard? People have to get married sooner or later A 30-year-old woman who can't get married is worthless People will die sooner or later. Aunt, you are 60 years old. Why have you lived so long? Employees of Tianlong Steel Plant Not just any cat or dog can marry Qianqian Why did you come here alone? Where is my good son-in-law? Mom, the chairman of Tianlong Group is visiting Gan County today. All the senior executives are working overtime in meetings. Prepare for the chairman's welcoming banquet in three days Yang Jun as deputy factory director Of course there are many things to deal with. Rumor has it that the chairman of Tianlong Group is young and promising Under 30 years old He is already the CEO of a top global company. I heard that his hometown is in Gan County. I don't know which one To be able to raise such a promising child Oh, it's rare oops How come I can't give birth to such a promising person? More annoying than people Qianqian, your name is Yang Jun Look for the best at the steel mill Divorced or widowed people in their 40s or 50s Introduce me to your cousin Men are very realistic now. Finding a partner requires not only being young and beautiful Good conditions My cousin is already over 30. No deposit at all Still floating outside I really can't do it. oops How could I have given birth to such a useless daughter like you? I didn't let you go out. You just don't listen If you stay in the countryside Now building a nest Look at your cousin. Married to the deputy director In recent years, the beauty industry has also grown Just a deputy factory manager I'm sorry. I really don't think highly of you, a mere deputy factory director. Our Yang Jun's position as deputy factory director But he was appointed by the chairman of Tianlong Group himself. The chairman thinks highly of him. This time I went back to Gan County It is very likely that he will be promoted to a full-time position. When did I accept my fate? Qin Shiyue, what are you laughing at? Qin Shiyue, what are you laughing at? Nothing, just continue. Humph, a migrant worker who has been working outside for 5 years I will never be able to catch up with my husband's status in this life You still have the face to smile here Mr. Gu Madam has arranged a blind date for you. Help! Help! Thanks when This afternoon Go prepare one for me. I will go to meet my future wife in person. very nice May Mrs. Qin be blessed with good fortune. Live as long as the Southern Mountains Thank you. Thank you. The banquet will have to wait a while Please take a rest first. A Yue wishes grandma good health and longevity Long life and good fortune Why are you here alone? Where is my grandson-in-law? Nana, I'm not married yet. Hey, what are you doing back here? You have ruined the reputation of our Qin family. We in Gan County have two major sins. No marriage and no offspring Actually, I have both. He still has the nerve to come and celebrate birthdays How unfilial! The Qin family was killed because of him The whole family was pointed at I'm not asking you to go on a blind date with someone else in the afternoon. What are you doing here? Mom, I won't go on a blind date. Just give up on this idea. You want to piss me off to death? Are you okay? Oh, okay, okay Stop pretending. Mom will find one for you. Arrange a contract for me in 3 minutes My husband must be healthy Good-looking Hello Mr. Qin Satisfaction guaranteed I didn't expect that even the richest man couldn't escape being urged to get married when he returned home People will arrive in 3 minutes Guaranteed to satisfy you Grandma, this is a little gift from us, Zhang Hai. The best snow buds before the rain are worth 1 million You guys are thoughtful Grandma, our family's gift will be brought by Yang Jun later. He is meeting with senior executives now. Coming Soon Why not Yang Jun? He is the deputy director of Tianlong Steel Plant. It is an honor for us to wait for him. Ha ha My cousin, today is grandma's birthday party. You won't come empty-handed, will you? Worked abroad for 5 years I can't even afford a birthday gift. Look at her poor appearance. It's obvious that he came back because he had a bad time outside. Hum sister If you have any difficulties, tell me. Zhang Hai and I prepared a birthday gift for you in advance. Don't bother with that. Hum, my birthday gift is coming soon. Cousin, I have to remind you Today is grandma's 80th birthday. Humph, you can't be sure Prepare some dried radish Let's take something out of this rotten stone. A working girl with a monthly salary of two to three thousand What kind of gifts can be given? I guess the radish is dry and the stone is rotten Oh, this is what he can do. The best thing, right? Ahahahahaha Birthday gift arrives Happy 80th birthday to Mrs. Qin Uh-huh Receiving the Way Hello, are you Miss Qin Shiyue? I am your blind date Blind Date Did Nicole arrange this for me? July Husband I am now at Ganxian Hotel Come find me Just hung up like that interesting Birthday gift arrives Lu'an Guapian Green Tea is worth 1 million Marshal Chang Ming's masterpiece A Thousand Miles of Rivers and Mountains is worth 2 million Whose birthday gift is this? The move was so grand Excuse me, who sent this birthday gift? Ms. Qin Ms. Qin Grandma, this is the gift I prepared for you. You dead girl Don't take other people's things. I didn't pretend This is what I prepared Sister, you are a working girl with a monthly salary of two to three thousand yuan How can you afford such an expensive birthday gift? There should be a limit to bragging. These birthday gifts alone cost 3 million I can't afford to give you away even if I sell you. Ha ha Yang Jun, deputy director of Tianlong Iron and Steel Plant, arrived My husband, you are here. grandmother I'm really sorry The big shot of the group arrived in Gan County Our steel mill is busy from morning till night Just to welcome this great man So I'm late Hey, good son-in-law Did you see any big shot? Which big shot was born to be low-key? Usually, only Director Wu will receive us personally. Uh grandma Did you receive that birthday gift? What do we give as birthday gift? I sent it in your name. Oh, isn't that there? Grandma's This is my birthday gift to you. Haha, good, good Qin Shiyue, what are you thinking? How dare you pretend to be our family's gift? I didn't mean it. I really Shut up because it was sent by Wu Jianguo You can also call the director of Tianlong Steel Plant by his name. Don't you think you haven't embarrassed me enough? If you are not married at 30, it will be a shame to the whole family. You are now pretending to be someone else's gift Get out of here Just pretend that I never gave birth to your daughter. I made a mistake about the gift. I apologize to everyone sorry Just say sorry and it'll be alright Didn't you just say Have you arranged for someone to send the gift back? Receiving gifts Cousin, it doesn't matter if you don't have money It's your fault if you have no money but love to pretend No wonder she can't get married I wouldn't marry such a woman. Receiving the Way Um Miss Qin, the things you requested are delivered to you. Grandma, this is the birthday gift I prepared for you. Isn't this just ordinary tea and a dried radish? This stuff is more than 100 yuan. You really can deliver it. Yuehua, this is the good daughter you raised. Worked abroad for 5 years First time coming back to celebrate my mom's birthday Hum, just buy these broken things Oh my god Anyway This is also Ayue's intention. It's a token of my love. I spend 100 yuan to buy these cheap things. Can it be called a token of my love? Your thoughts are too worthless. 100 yuan This thing in his hand is worth 60 million Who are you trying to fool with 60 million? You haven't earned much money working outside for several years. You have learned a lot of bragging skills. Mom, I didn't lie to you. Sister Tang is holding a century-old wild ginseng from Changbai Mountain. This one is worth 50 million. And this is Yunxi's Golden Pumpkin Tribute Tea One pound costs 5 million There are two kilograms in it. Grandma Don't be fooled by him. She's just a working girl. No husband How can I buy such an expensive gift? Yes, Qianqian is right. Qin October It's impossible for you to give me such a valuable gift. He just spent a few dozen dollars The junk I bought at the street stall Don't always use your eyes to judge others I feel so sad for you. What do you mean? You say we don't know the goods I, Yang Jun, am the deputy director of Tianlong Iron and Steel Plant. What high-end goods have you not seen? You're the only one who wants to cheat us with cheap goods It's our Qin family's fault. How did such a disgraceful thing like you appear? You don't know the goods. Shut up Shut up Why beat the child for no reason? Sorry, I didn't mean it. fine You must be Miss Qin, right? He is the contract partner that Nicole arranged for me. This Neeko is too unreliable. Why did you assign a cripple to me? To me, it's Qin Shiyue Who are you Mom, he's my boyfriend. My future husband too. This was officially announced just after it came in. Uh, hello, auntie My name is Gu Haonan You have been working outside for 5 years I found a lame man. Hey, cousin. I said you are old We can't find a cripple. My husband There are many 50-year-old widowed men in their steel mill How about I introduce you to a few Qin Shiyue, hurry up Bring me your stuff and this lame man. roll What are you doing? Hey, Director Wu What did you say The chairman is coming to Mrs. Qin's birthday party Oh, good, good Don't worry, we will treat the chairman well. Everyone, Director Wu just called. Chairman I'm about to attend Madam Qin's birthday banquet. Hey, don't say that Wouldn't it be a great success for the Qin family if they could get close to the chairman? Unexpectedly The Qin family rose to the upper class in just five years. Now he is also with the big shot, the chairman Is there someone behind the scenes giving advice? Ancestors' blessing Our Qin family has finally made it. Chairman Haha It must be for our Yang Jun's sake. I specially came here to celebrate my grandma's birthday. Hey, I mean it's because of us For Zhang Hai's sake The chairman just came to attend the birthday party. All right Zhang's enterprise has always cooperated with Tianlong Group I heard that the chairman has been taking care of me behind the scenes. Hey, stop arguing. You two have found a good son-in-law. They are all the heroes of the Qin family. Not like that useless thing I didn't find it until I was 30. This lame husband Why Stop calling me a cripple. Although he is physically disabled But it's better than some people with missing brains. 100 times better You are enough Qin Shiyue, take this cripple away to me immediately So as not to offend the chairman It seems your family doesn't welcome us to go. If I leave Aren't they disappointed? Who do you think you are? I did it for Qianqian's sake. Call you cousin Your in-laws Who are you? Enough, no one likes you here. mom After all, Ayue is your granddaughter. I don't have such a shameful granddaughter. Okay, I'm leaving. I hope you won't ask for it later. I let's go Why Director Wu of Tianlong Group Steel Plant arrived Tianlong Group Steel Plant has no factory director Director Wu actually came to celebrate Mrs. Qin's birthday in person Isn't the Qin family going to be prosperous? Director Wu and the chairman didn't come together, did they? Mrs. Qin Xiao Wu is here to wish you a happy birthday Oh, you're too polite. You are the director of Tianlong Steel Plant. Can you come here? It's our Qin family's honor. Come on, come on Please take a seat. Director Wu, I want to ask Our factory is still short of people. I want to recommend someone. I have an older daughter who is 30 this year. I have worked outside for five years and achieved nothing. I want to ask Can you help me get a job at our steel plant? Auntie hum Our steel plant is not open to anyone. Besides, in the case of my cousin I am 30 years old I don't have the ability to work in our factory. I can do cleaning work. Cleaning He graduated from university after all. Is it too much of a loss to be a cleaner? Auntie, the cleaning lady at Tianlong Steel Plant That's 5,000 a month. That's much better than him working outside. Then I'll discuss it with him later. Hey, Director Wu Didn't you just call to say that the chairman was coming? Ah, he is at the train station today. Said she was coming to take a photo of Mrs. Qin Hahaha Isn't this the gift I prepared? How come it's on the ground? This gift was prepared by Director Wu. Someone just impersonated me. We thought he was fake. So I'm confused. Who is the gift giver? Uh, he just left. you Oh no Mr. Wu, Introduce yourself My name is Gu Haonan CEO of Gu Group Annual income is nearly 100 billion. How about you? Where did Neeko find the actors for me? Doing plays and making boxing gloves? My name is Qin Shiyue I guess the introducer has already told you. If you think it's appropriate Do you mind getting a certificate from me? make a deal Let's go to the Civil Affairs Bureau together Sha La La La The chairman is missing Find them all for me Your daughter must have stolen the factory director's gift. Director Wu left angrily. This is over. Angered Director Wu You won't vent your anger on our Yang Jun, will you? Our Yang Jun has just been promoted to deputy factory director. But it will be corrected soon. It's all because of October, that damn girl's dirty hands and feet To show off in front of us He actually pretended to be Director Wu's gift If my son-in-law doesn't get promoted because of this You guys take full responsibility for me. It's too miserable to have a deputy factory director. I also got married to such a relative. There is 500,000 yuan in this card During this time, as long as you cooperate to play my husband I'll give you another 500,000 after the deal is done. Unexpectedly Mr. Gu was kept by a woman for another day I didn't marry you for your money. Not for the money Um Oh me I see. It must be because my family is urging me to get married. That's right Three days later, Yaochi Manor will hold a welcoming banquet I need you to go with me The welcoming banquet at Yaochi Manor in three days Isn't that for me? OK If there's nothing else, I'll leave first. be safe Um Let's go Why You know to come back What happened to mom? What's wrong? Tell me. It's fine if you pretend to be your brother-in-law's gift You even dared to claim the gift from Director Wu. You have brought shame to our Qin family. This is the gift I asked Xiao Wu to give me. When does it become a fraud? Look at him You are still stubborn even when death is imminent I didn't educate you well. Makes you so vain dad Why don't you even believe me? Chairman You finally answered the phone. Gifts Gifts Go talk to my parents. Xiao Wu Did you prepare this gift specially for me? Yes These gifts are indeed specially prepared for you. This this How is it possible? Gifts That's fine. Then tell me what happened to that lame guy. Aren't you forcing me to get married? This is satisfying. this this What a sin! We worked so hard to raise you. In the end you let a cripple live Mom, please stop calling him a cripple. But what about your son-in-law? Oh wait a minute I'm going out for a while Hey this yes Listen to me The chairman will come over to inspect it soon. Bring out your best today Prepare to meet the chairman It's you Please clean all the tables for me. Within three minutes Don't let me see any dust. You two should go to the kitchen. Throw away all expired vegetables immediately. Don't let the chairman see it. Quick, quick, quick Yes Yes oh Oh, and you two. Get to the door quickly Prepare to meet the chairman Yes Yes You think that person is the chairman? How is it possible? Look at that poor guy. If he were the chairman I'm the chairman of the board. Sorry, our chairman is inspecting today. No guests I am the chairman. Walk Yo Isn't this our class beauty Qin Shiyue? Why are you here? Qin Shiyue, didn't you go to work in another place? How come I can't make it and I'm back again? Hehehe Qin Shiyue, if you had followed me At least she's a rich lady now. Please be respectful Huang Daqiao, are you still thinking about him? Hey baby, don't be angry. I was just joking with him. Mr. Wang, the VIP room you requested has been booked for you. Come in quickly etc. Didn't you say that you won't be entertaining guests today? Guests are also divided into different levels People like Mr. Wang are naturally big customers. As for you? At best, he's just a rag picker. Where is Tianlong Restaurant? But it's a platinum five-star restaurant Is it possible for a country bumpkin like you to go there? The most common side dishes in our restaurant cost tens of thousands of yuan. Even if you work all your life, you can't afford it. Qin Shiyue As a person, you should have some self-awareness. I advise you Still do what you can Stop pretending to be fat, haha Sun Moon, if you want to go in? Just clean my shoes. I can consider taking you in. Which fly is buzzing? Smelly and smelly Who are you scolding? Who is calling me to scold whom? you Mr. Wang, please don't be angry. I'll ask security to kick him out. Who dares to touch me? I am the chairman of Tianlong Group. Hahahahahahahahahahaha Baby, did I hear you right? He just said who he was. He just said that he is the chairman of Tianlong Group Hahahahahaha Qin Shiyue, your lying skills are so It's really the pinnacle. I'm afraid even you You believe it yourself, right? Hahaha if you don't believe it Can you call the general manager to confirm? What are you? Our general manager is available whenever you want. These days, there are still people who go out without looking in the mirror Why are you still standing there? Why don't you kick this country girl out right now? Mr. Wang, please come in quickly Don't dirty your eyes Why are you standing there? stop What a coincidence! We meet again. I'll take you in. I said you don't understand what people say, right? Go quickly and don't delay us from welcoming the chairman. He is my wife Can't he come in with me? Where did this cripple come from? Our Tianlong Restaurant Not just any cat or dog can get in. How did Xiao Zhou recruit people? They don't even have the most basic professional qualities. You can also call Xiao Zhou I've always called it that. If I call him by his full name He would be so scared that he would kneel down in front of me The only person who can make our Manager Zhou kneel down is the Chairman What are you bragging about as a country girl? Okay, stop bragging and leave it to me. I am Gu Haonan, the president of Gu Group Am I eligible to enter this restaurant? And did you hear? A lame man is pretending to be Mr. Gu. Why waste your words on these idiots? Welcoming the Chairman is the most important thing security guard Throw these lunatics away from here! I wonder who dares to touch Mr. Gu and his wife. Put away your muscles. Is this society still Jiang Wenming? I have a way to prove that I am part of the Story Group. Get to Tianlong Restaurant within two minutes I'll take you in. Hehe, you're still acting. Okay, I'll give you two minutes. Where have you gone, damn girl? Mom, I'm taking care of something outside. Bring back some money quickly. I made an appointment with your brother-in-law Ask him to introduce you to work as a cleaner in a steel plant Mom, I have a job. Hasn't anyone arrived yet? We have been waiting here for a long time but have not seen the chairman Chairman Could it be that they sent a cripple to the secret market? No, I'd rather admit my mistake. Don't let me go either. Hello, sir. Are you here to inspect our restaurant? No, I was just passing by Haha I understand Since it is a secret market You must hide your identity, right? You two, please treat me well. This gentleman It's Manager Zhou I have something else to do so I'm leaving first Farewell Could it be that he knows my identity? Why does Manager Zhou ask us to take care of a cripple? You don't understand this. Manager Zhou It must be to let the chairman know Our restaurant cares and takes care of people with disabilities Three Guests I'll take you in. Could it be that Xiao Zhou came out to say hello? Please come inside Today's consumption is paid by Manager Zhou Please enjoy If you need anything, call me anytime. Oh, I forgot to ask you. This person beside you is Oh, hello, ma'am. My name is Chen Yi Stop standing. Sit down and eat. Thank you, ma'am. I'll wait for you outside. Call me anytime if you have any problem. How about it The taste is excellent but But what But not fresh enough His ingredients Definitely not what the menu said Selected fresh ingredients of the day Qin Shiyue, how did you get in? Qin Shiyue, you don't have a man to look for, right? I found a cripple as a man Hahaha It's really unlucky Who did you just say was unlucky? Daqiang just heard it. No, he just said I was unlucky. Baby, don't be angry This is such a bad breath I paid for you, hahahaha Qin Shiyue quickly apologized to Qingqing Otherwise I'll call the police and report you guys for free dining. Brother Daxiang, are you okay? Mr. Guo Can you two stop hanging around in front of me? I find it disgusting Handsome Qin Shiyue, I'm going to kill you and me Ah, go! I'll kill you I'm going to get out of here Beat someone up! Beat someone up! Mr. Wang, what happened to you? What does the restaurant serve? Let this unknown person in. Get me out now! I think I'd better forget it. Manager Zhou just told us to treat them well. Maybe they are some hidden boss. Let's not offend them. Come on, what big guys can they be? Manager Zhou was just trying to deal with the chairman's inspection. Just let them in. What's more, he has injured Mr. Wang. Can't you tell which is more important? this You guys don't leave anymore. I'll have the security throw you out. Don't you guys ask what happened? It's their posture first. Mr. Wang is a gold member of our restaurant Monthly consumption is at least one million Even if it was his choice That's what you should do. This is how Xiao Zhou usually teaches you to do things. I am now officially informing you You are fired Fired Oops I'm so scared Ha ha How did you play Jin Shiyue again? You are about to die and you still dare to pretend I'm the store manager here. Even if Manager Zhou wants to fire me, I have to ask for permission. You are just dreaming In one minute Fire me The general manager and two owners of Tianlong Restaurant In one minute Fire the general manager of Tianlong Restaurant And two store managers Why Don't take one or two minutes. Do you think everyone is Ultraman? Mr. Wang, the scene might be bloody later. Why don't you and Miss Fang force it first? good Tingting, let's go I can't just watch him get bullied. Fortunately, Gu's and Tianlong Group have business dealings. Sell them a favor Should not I'm going to make a phone call You wait for me here Your crippled husband is gone. You're not leaving yet I didn't expect him to be such a timid man. Now you alone can't use it Security Um, stop it. Ahhh Manager Zhou, why are you hitting us? I beat you guys, that's a kiss Open your eyes wide Look clearly at who is in front of us Isn't he just a low-eyed country girl? ah The person in front of you is the chairman. ah Chairman ah What did you say? I waited all afternoon but didn't see Mr. Qin. Weird, it was President Qin who asked me to find him a man. Mr. Gu Chairman, please give me another chance. I have old people and young children. I can't live without this job. Manager Zhou You are a veteran employee of Tianlong Group. Unexpired ingredients were used to replace fresh ingredients Extracting oil and water from Seriously endangering the health of customers I didn't ask you to pay This is the greatest tolerance for you. I was just confused for a moment. Give me another chance I beg you You are now walking out with dignity. Or should I ask the security guard to throw you out? And you two One by one Cling to the rich and powerful My Tianlong Group can't accommodate you Chairman, I am blind. Please raise your hand Let us go. 3 2 I'm back Yo, you didn't leave. Yo, you didn't leave. I just made a phone call How did they leave? Fired by me Fired by you Is it the phone call just now? Why is this man taking credit for everything? Yuehua, your October is really big. The whole family is waiting for him. You really think you're some great person. It's already so late and you haven't come back yet If you don't know, you might think we need something from him. Aunt Do you know how much money I can make this minute? If it weren't for Qianqian I don't want to stay here for even one more second. Xiao Ming, let's go The old aunt is back Who are you calling old aunt? Calling you If a 30-year-old woman doesn't get married, isn't she just an old aunt? You see clearly I'm already married. Xiao Ming, go play first. Cousin, you are not really upset Have you got the marriage certificate with that cripple? Um, is there any problem? Shut up This time, thanks to your cousin and your brother-in-law At Tianlong Steel Plant I found you a cleaning job. I'm not going mom You said why are you still crying? If you don't like me Now it's you What did you say? Mom is so happy. By the way, when will you bring her back to see mom? We just got the license. Let's get to know each other in two days. I'll bring it back Mom, tell you. This is the one I carefully selected on the dating website. Choose for you You must treat him sincerely. Got it, mom If I don't go, you must go Cleaning in a steel factory It's much better than working outside. My cousin, I advise you to listen to my aunt's advice. The cleaning job at this steel plant It is a popular commodity in Gan County. How many people are rushing to go? If you want to go, go by yourself. I advise you not to be too ambitious. Do whatever you are capable of. With your ability, it's good enough to be a cleaner in a steel factory You don't understand my abilities. I don't care about that steel plant at all. Don't know what's good for you Don't say we don't help. It's you, my good daughter, who doesn't appreciate it. go back Let's go. Hey hey hey hey Don't leave. We are all relatives The cleaning job You have to keep it for our Yue oops Look at the good things you did Ah Yue, why are you back? Don't contact me If Wang Daqiang hadn't told the classmates that you were back I don't know I just got back I originally thought I would look for you after I was done with this. Don't wait for a while Tomorrow Tomorrow Wang Daqiang will organize a class reunion at Tianlong Hotel I specifically asked you to call me That's settled. Hey, do you think Qin Shiyue will Yes, I heard he has been working in the past two years. I will quit when I can't make it anymore. Now all of our classmates are doing better than him. In my opinion, he would not be able to come. I'm afraid you'll be disappointed. A Yue I knew you would come Qin October, how come she is becoming more and more beautiful? As long as the makeup skills are good You can become a beautiful woman Look at his cheap clothes. How dare you let him in? Isn't that relying on your and Mr. Wang's reputation? He said he was your classmate with Mr. Wang. Why don't the waiter serve you warmly? I am the gold VIP here They'll give me some face eventually. Hahaha Jin Shiyue, I heard that you haven't had a good time these years. I'm 30 and still not married. If you really can't get married Just make do with Li Mazi from our class If you really can't get married Just make do with Li Mazi from our class A 30-year-old working girl A 30-year-old still moving bricks in a factory Isn't it a perfect match? Stop messing around with couples. Ayue is so beautiful I'm sure I'll find a better one. She is also worthy A thirty-something working girl with no power or influence What qualifications do you have to be picky? I was wondering why I smelled a foul odor as soon as I came in. It turns out that someone ate shit early in the morning without brushing their teeth Qian Shiyue, who are you scolding? You dare to scold Qingqing Did You Know Qingqing's elder brother is a senior executive of Tianlong Group Do you believe it? One word from him will make it impossible for you to stay in Gan County Then I want to see if he has this ability. It's a rare occasion for all classmates to get together Let's all stop talking. Mr. Gu Your legs are fine. Why do you stumble in front of the lady? If a person has a physical defect But his significant other still doesn't dislike him Be good to him This kind of woman is worthy of my company, Gu Haonan One life? In fact, the month You are still just pretending to be noble like before Who in Gan County doesn't know that you are a famous old woman? It's your blessing to be able to see you In fact, the month You are still just pretending to be noble like before Who in Gan County doesn't know that you are a famous old woman? cut It's your blessing to be able to see you Please be respectful I'm married Marry A Yue Why didn't you tell me you were married? I've saved all the money I shared for you for 10 years. I'm just worried that I won't have a chance to give you Just got married yesterday Yo, you're married. Why don't you bring your husband out here right now? Let everyone see it That's right, bring your husband here quickly. let me see What kind of person is he? I'm so happy to be able to fall in love with a 30-year-old worker like you. What does your husband do in October? Could he be an employee of Tianlong Steel Plant? The members of Tianlong Steel Plant look down on him. He is not an employee of Tianlong Steel Plant He works at Gu Group Gu Group Could it be second only to Tianlong Group? Gu Group ranked second To those who work at Gu Group Definitely no worse than the staff of Tianlong Steel Plant Ah Yue didn't expect you to remain silent I found such a good husband. Xiyue, I have an interview at Gu Group tomorrow. Can you ask your husband to help with this? Lili's husband But it's just a I'm just a small employee in Gu's Group. Oh yeah Who knows? Not even a clerk. Just a security guard at the door Hahaha In the future, this sanitation cleaning must be arranged in place All the corners Especially in a private room like this, Chairman Is the Chairman so A bottle of 1990 Condi will be delivered to this box. Is the general manager Qingqing is right. She has been hiding her husband. I guess I can't do it. She wants me to see her husband. Poor is ugly I'm here. Where are you? Hey, you are Qian Shiyue's husband, right? We are now in box 666 Come to me quickly Everyone, Qin Shiyue's husband is coming soon. Let's talk later. But you have to pay attention to me. Anyue blames me I shouldn't have asked you to come to the class reunion. fine You really came Hey, this couldn't be your husband. Hahahahahahaha Yes, I am her husband. No wonder it's hidden. He was a cripple. I knew you would marry a cripple. You should have been nice to me at first. Ahahahaha Please speak with respect My husband has a name and surname Gu Haonan Not a cripple Okay, okay, okay Mr. Gu, right? I heard you work at Gu's Group So I want to ask What do you do in Gu Group? I am the president of Gu Group. Hahahahahahahahahaha He actually said that he was the president of Story Group Qin Shiyue, is your husband's brain broken? Ha ha ha ha If you can't change your bragging habit We can stop talking for now. These days, no one believes the truth. This bottle of 1990 Conti was given by our general manager. Please enjoy it slowly Um Just thirsty Dead Cripple How dare you drink my red wine? Your red wine Didn't the waiter just say it was sent by the general manager? How did it become your red wine? Bumpkin, do you know how much that bottle of red wine costs? 1 million. Even the sip you just drank is at least 100,000. Do you think the hotel manager Why did you give us such expensive wine for no reason? It's all for Mr. Wang and Qingqing's sake. It's really good at putting gold on one's face. Qin Shiyue, what do you mean? It's not for Qingqing and me. Is it for your sake? Still has some brains you How can you blow better than me? Mr. Wang's uncle is the director of Tianlong Steel Plant. Qin Xing's elder brother It is Jin Shiyue, a senior executive of Tianlong Group. You're a working girl. How can I compare with others? Do you dare to make a bet? If this bottle of wine comes towards you I kneel down to admit my mistake to you But if this bottle of wine is directed at me Please kneel down and kowtow to my husband to apologize Qin Shiyue You're doomed. Don't be happy too soon Meet me in box 666 in two minutes 2 minutes left I really thought this restaurant was owned by his family. Yes, I own this restaurant. Qin Shiyue, we are all old classmates who know each other well. There's no need for you to pretend in front of me. Just the way you dress Dare to pretend to be a boss True or False You'll know in a minute. Can't you wait even a minute? that I feel a little uncomfortable in my stomach I'm going to the bathroom Could this guy be running away again? I'll see how you get out of the car later. 2 minutes have passed Who are you looking for? Manager Zong, do you have any instructions for me? The bottle of red wine you sent caused a little misunderstanding I want to find you to confirm Who here is this bottle of red wine for? Ha ha Hahaha I once told you that I was having a party with my classmates. You gave me such an expensive gift. Who are you? Do we know each other? Besides, this bottle of wine is not for you. Who are you? Do we know each other? Besides, this bottle of wine is not for you. ah My brother used to be a senior executive of Tianlong Group. He asked you to bring this wine to us, right? Who is your brother? Hey, I used to Except for those of us present here Who has such a big face? Right haha Who are you? Bah, this bottle of wine is specially prepared for Mr. Qin Mr. Qin This is Mr. Qin Hahaha I've never cared about you. He cheated me She's just a working girl. How could it be the President Qin you mentioned? Who gave you the courage? How dare you talk to Mr. Qin like this? Kneel down and apologize to Mr. Qin immediately My brother is a senior executive of Tianlong Group. Let me apologize to him. Dreaming about you, brother Your brother doesn't even fart in front of Mr. Qin. Crazy, this world is crazy. Be willing to accept defeat Wait until my husband comes. Remember to kneel down and kowtow to apologize Kneel down if you want How can I default on my debt? Just knock hehe Don't let people gossip about you. It's been so long since I came back This guy wouldn't really run away, would he? What's wrong sorry By the way, what do you want to talk to me about today? My mother knows I'm married. Want to see you We are just a contract marriage It's not appropriate to meet your mother. What's wrong with this? I haven't met your family. Besides, what if you really fall in love with me in the future? It is not impossible to turn around So confident Okay, then you arrange the time and place. good Is this Qin Shiyue really some big shot? He has been working away from home for 5 years A country bumpkin who has accomplished nothing What big shot could he be? But the one who just Why are you so respectful to Qin Shiyue? I just came to Gan County Has anyone seen him? Have you seen? Have you seen? Or have you seen it? He said he was You will believe it I was just wondering here This Tianlong Hotel is a national hotel chain He is a general manager. Qin Shiyue nodded and bowed I look at him It's the actor invited by Qin Shiyue Ayue is not that kind of person. Then why did you just come to work today? He doesn't know me and Daqiang. But I only know Qin Shiyue I'm telling you You have to go to work at the steel mill tomorrow I'm sticking to my old face I begged your brother-in-law to help you with this assignment. Mom, I have a job. Don't worry anymore. I'm worried about the two or three thousand dollars you made out there. Which job? You come back and work as a cleaner in the steel mill. You have to listen to me this time no matter what Sister, you promised Stop worrying mom. Look, you are not as sensible as your sister. They won't believe anything I say now. Forget it, wait until the welcoming banquet arrives. They will know my identity. Okay, I promise you. Your stupid brain has finally come to its senses Hey, why did you bring this cripple back? Auntie, I want to come and see you. Mom, you have a name. Gu Haonan Don't call me a lame person. Weird Yo We just got married a few days ago. I learned to help outsiders talk back to me. Since he married you Then the betrothal gift must be given, right? He is a disabled person. What money do you have? Otherwise, forget about the gift. That won't work. Otherwise, I would raise such a big daughter. Wouldn't that make her get a bargain for nothing? Dad, you can't be partial. When Zhang Hai married me The betrothal gift was 500,000 yuan. Uncle and Aunt Don't worry Since I have married A Yue The betrothal money will not be less If you really want to give, give 80,000 For good luck How can 80,000 be enough? The daughter I raised is worth 80,000 yuan 80,000 is definitely not possible At least 800,000 Mom, you are marrying your daughter. Not selling my daughter. Besides Now the country does not advocate such a high gift. Don't I'll give you 80 million Is 80 million enough? You are crazy 80 million Not 8,000 Sister, your husband is not only physically disabled This is also a bit problematic. Making a fuss Isn't it just 80 million? If you don't want to be too high-profile I originally planned to give 800 million Aunt Wang, did I hear correctly? Mr. Gu, what about me? I suggest you draft your lies first. My Zhang family is the second largest enterprise in Gan County Don't dare to follow 800 million yuan Why do you, a cripple? because I am the president of Gu Group. Gu The second largest financial group in the country You are the president. Hahaha Sister, you and your brother-in-law are a perfect match. Hey, you two You can apply The Guinness World Record for bragging If you can't speak, say less. 80 million is enough 800 million I think you are the overbearing president who was reborn into a skit. ah Auntie, don't worry. Wait two days After attending the welcoming banquet for the chairman of Tianlong Group, I I will definitely marry Ayu with a gift of tens of millions We are just a contract marriage You don't have to act like this. Don't say that What if you really fall in love with me in the future? Welcome Banquet of the Chairman of Tianlong Group Not everyone can participate if they want to. Our Zhang Hai As the president of the second largest company in the relationship No invitation letter How could you have an invitation? What? You and Zhang Hai don't have an invitation letter? How can Jenny do this? I clearly asked him to prepare invitations for the whole family. Hey Nico Within two minutes Arranger Send the invitation to the welcoming banquet to the Qin family's old house Hello Mr. Qin elder sister Are you and your brother-in-law competing for the title of bragging king? You will know if it is bragging after two minutes. I must help my wife realize the boasts she made. Leave the matter of Ayuan's invitation letter to me. Don't worry, blow Um Hey, whatever you can do Within 2 minutes The invitation letter to receive Feng Ye from Yao Chi Manor Sent to the Qin family's old house Hahaha People from the same family don't enter the same door. I want to see how you end up in two minutes. This invitation Must personally deliver it to the Qin family Oh, okay. This Director Wu Why did you suddenly invite Qin Shiyue's family to the welcoming banquet? This Director Wu Why did they suddenly invite Qin Shiyue's family to the dinner? Please tell me about the Qin Family Mansion How to get there You are here to send an invitation, too. Yes, I am related to that family. Give me the invitation. I'll send it with you. OK Thank you I know you don't have any requirements. Sister, it's fine if you just pretend in front of outsiders. Why bother with us? ah How come you are here? Come in, come in No vision at all Didn't you see the distinguished guest coming? Uncle and Aunt This is in two days. Invitation letter to meet with the chairman of Tianlong Group You two must come. Did Ah Yue have someone send it over? How could he I asked Director Wu for this. No wonder I have a heart How does Nicole do it? The invitation has not been sent yet. Sister and brother-in-law Where is your invitation letter? strangeness Logically speaking, the invitation letter should have been delivered by now. Hum, life is difficult. It's not wrong to have a bad job. But it's your fault to pretend Forget it. You just need an invitation letter. I have arranged the cleaning job for my cousin Remember to come to work on time tomorrow You're going to do cleaning. Just like a private visit It's a good opportunity to secretly inspect their working conditions. Ah Yue, you also come to work here. Qin Shiyue, you are working as a cleaner here. Make way My shoes are dirty Could you please help me clean it up? I am a cleaner She's not your maid. Wash your dirty shoes yourself Lift your feet. Qin Shiyue, don't you see how dirty the ground is? Clean it up for me now. Don't think I didn't see it. You broke the cup on purpose. Even if I broke it myself, so what? You are a cleaner It's to clean up the garbage. Can you do it? You can't do this, get out of here now What are you guys making such a fuss about during work hours? What are you guys making such a fuss about during work hours? Deputy Director, It's finally here He just broke the cup. I asked him to clean it up. He still talks back. Qin Shiyue How can you turn the tables? You broke the cup on purpose. All employees present can see Then let me ask you all Who broke the cup? It's him. It's him I saw. How can you lie with your eyes open? This was clearly smashed by Fang Qingqing herself. It can prove to me Fang Qingqing smashed the cup on purpose Enough Qin Shiyue, don't think my wife is your cousin I will protect you I am a person who always does things fairly and justly. So you should restrain yourself a little. Now clean up the debris on the ground for me Director Wu will be here soon. I hope before he arrives There is not a speck of dust on the ground It was obvious that he deliberately oppressed the employees. As the deputy factory director, you not only don't care Still indulge him Do you know what Qingqing is? His eldest brother is a senior executive of Tianlong Group. Even if Director Wu came You have to respect him Yang Jun I didn't expect you to be such a sycophant. A villain who wants to curry favor with powerful people Qin Shiyue, do you still want to work here? If it weren't for my wife You're not even qualified to work here. Did you know Forget it, Ayue This society is the law of the jungle As grassroots employees, we have no say. Forget it. A wise man does not argue with a fool. Wait until the unblocking banquet to settle this account Qingqing heard We will hold a welcoming banquet for the chairman at Yaochi Manor tomorrow Isn't your brother an executive of Tianlong Group? You can definitely get an invitation. I heard that the chairman of Tianlong Group is only 30 years old I don't know if it's a boy or a girl. If you were a handsome guy I must find a way to get an invitation If I can be noticed by the chairman at the welcoming banquet I won't have to worry for the rest of my life. Why don't you take a piss and look at yourself? Qingqing, can you ask your brother to get a few more invitations? Let's go see the world. Those who can attend the reception They are all first-class famous families. Even my brother can only get two Then we have no hope. The chairman of Tianlong Group is my idol. It would be great if I could also attend the welcoming party Do you want to participate Yeah, but for a low-level employee like me I'm afraid there's no hope It's ok. I'll take you there. Really Zhao Lingling, a cleaner, you actually believed what she said Lingling, you are so stupid Qingqing's brother is a senior executive of Tianlong Group There are only two invitations. Qin Shiyue a cleaning How come? Ah Yue, please stop making me happy. Lingling, everything I said is true. I will definitely take you to pick up Maple Leaf Meet your idol It's really free to brag. You are a human being, so you dare to pretend It's really free to brag. You are a human being, so you dare to pretend I'm sorry. My hand accidentally lost its grip Fang Qingqing, you are crazy Qin Shiyue, Director Wu is coming soon You clean up the floor right now. I won't wipe it off. If you don't wipe it, get out of here Tianlong Steel Plant does not keep idle people A Yuan: Less is more Please bear with it for a while You are right. Tianlong Steel Plant does not keep idle people I'm officially informing you now You are imprisoned You fired me. Do you think you are the chairman of Tianlong Steel Machinery Factory? You are right, I am the chairman You said you are the chairman Did I hear that correctly? What a big shot the chairman of my Tianlong Group is You are so bold. Dare to impersonate him When is Haiyue? You're still bragging Am I the Chairman? You will know when Director Wu comes. How can a person of your low status meet Director Wu? I am currently the Human Resources Manager of Tianlong Group. Officially notify you of your identity You are fired Quick, quick, the inspection team is here! Your Majesty's hygiene is not up to standard Qin Shiyue, you are a cleaner and you can't even sweep the floor clean You are fired You didn't even ask about the whole story. You're firing me without any reason. What facts are in front of me? Pack your things and get out of here! Where is Director Wu? Director Wu didn't come today because of something. I want to see how you pretend this time. I declare that I will no longer employ this person. The security kicked him out. etc. Xiao Wu, I'll let you know Immediately fire Fang Qingqing from the Human Resources Department Everyone take a look He just noted a little Wu How dare you pretend to be Director Wu here? Qin Shiyue, you are really good at lying That's what I usually call it. Have questions? Hey, Director Wu What Hey I I see Hey, Webmaster Wu What Oops I see Fang Qianqian, you are fired. It's impossible My brother is a senior executive of Tianlong Group. How could I be fired? I don't know why. Is he really some big shot? Hey bro I was fired So that's what happened. I thought someone bullied you. It is like this I told Director Wu seven days ago I want to transfer you to the group headquarters as a human resources manager. He should worry about personnel matters. So that's how it is No wonder they fired me. It turns out that I am being transferred to the headquarters to be the HR manager. Did you hear that? I'm going to be transferred to the headquarters to be the human resources manager What else can I say now? I didn't expect that the Tianlong Group would be so chaotic. Wait until the unsealing banquet I will clean up the guard. Qianqian, when you are transferred to the headquarters, don't forget me. And me and me Don't worry, I'll transfer you to the headquarters. I will definitely transfer both of you there. I almost thought he What big shot? Qin Shiyue, I now officially declare that you are fired. Damn girl, you still remember to come back I got you a job with my old face I was fired after working for just one day. Mom, you don't know the whole story. I don't care so much Go apologize to your brother-in-law tomorrow. I didn't do anything wrong Why apologize? You are welcome to It's okay if you don't like it I have to apologize tomorrow. Such a good job can't be lost in vain Ayue, your mother is doing this for your own good. Otherwise, just listen to your mother. Forget it, just hold on for now Got it? Hey, there will be a welcoming banquet at Yaochi Manor tomorrow. Take my invitation. When you see the chairman, say a few good words Maybe he will transfer you to the headquarters if he is happy. Mom, the chairman you mentioned is me, your daughter. Are you not going with Dad? Your father and I are this old. What did you do there? Young people should see the world more Oh well This damn girl When did you become so obedient? It's so late What can I do for you? Don't forget the maple leaves at Yaochi Manor tomorrow. yes You don't have an invitation. Otherwise, you can come with me. Ah Yue didn't expect I really received the invitation letter from Ji Fengyan But it's a pity I failed at the critical moment What's wrong? You have a high fever. Then you should take good care of yourself. I will have a chance to meet the chairman later. Lin Zhiyuan, why are you here? Today is the chairman's welcoming banquet. What are you, a country girl, doing here? Aren't you also a country girl? Why can you come I can't come Qin Shiyue, who do you think you are? Can you compare with Qingqing? Qingqing's elder brother is a senior executive of Tianlong Group and Qingqing will soon be transferred to the headquarters as a human resources manager Don't be happy too soon Without my nod, she still No, this manager Hahahahahaha Can you please stop pretending? You're not even worthy of carrying Qingqing's shoes It's bad luck to see you so early in the morning Brother Daqiang, let's go Don't bother with him. He doesn't have an invitation. He can't get in either. Walk snort Why hasn't it arrived yet? The party is about to begin. Well, I'll go in first. Qin Shiyue, why are you here? Get out of here now Cousin, although we both have the last name Qin But there are differences between people Yaochi Manor It's not some dog or cat Anywhere you can come in Sister, please go back soon. Stop bringing shame to the Qin family. I tell you I can come here today. They are all first-class nobles. As you I don't even have the qualifications to serve tea or water here. Get out of here now Don't make me ask someone to kick you out. Why should I leave? This welcoming banquet is specially prepared for me. Who is this woman? How can you sneak in wearing cheap clothes? How dare she say this party was held for her? Really don't know how high the sky is Sister, stop bragging. This is specially held for the chairman of Tianlong Group. What does the welcoming banquet have to do with you? What I said is the truth I sent someone to deliver your invitation to you. My invitation was given to me personally by my brother-in-law What does it have to do with you? How did the Qin family produce such a big flower mirror? that is You have no ability but you are just trying to make yourself look good. Director Wu and the chairman will be here soon. Get out of here now if you know what's best for you Don't embarrass me here. Captain Feng Get this troublemaker out of here right now. I don't hit women. Be decent Get out of here Isn't this Feng Qingming? He accompanied Wu Jianguo to the headquarters for a meeting last time Maybe you can recognize me You are Feng Qingming how You recognize me Um You are my cousin's eldest daughter. Think about it again oh I remember oh I remember Speak up You are the eldest daughter of my third uncle's cousin. no It's not that you're talking nonsense to him. Get him out of here, wake up! Get out of here now Don't force me to use force. What if I don't leave? Then don't force me to hit a woman. Are you okay? I'm fine You dare to hit me? Do you know who I am? Who are you? Aren't you just a watchdog? You are crazy He is the captain of the security team of Tianlong Steel Plant oh It turns out that this dog has an official position. How did you get in here, you cripple? Yeah, how did you get in? It's very simple. Of course I will go openly. Being pushed in Director Wu and the chairman will be here soon. Someone, get these two troublemakers out of here! I see who dares to move Mr. Gu and his wife no Why is there another troublemaker? Isn't this Mr. Gu from Gu Group? I am Gu Haonan from Story Group This is my wife. and We have an invitation letter Where did you get the invitation? Of course, it was sent by the chairman of Tianlong Group himself. The president of the farting Gu Group is not a cripple. I had the honor of meeting Mr. Gu You fooled everyone. But you can't fool me I don't even believe your bullshit. You'll know if what I said is true. Everyone, watch it. This invitation is fake. The seal on our invitation is red. This one is golden. It must be gold This invitation It is indeed me who stamped the seal for Gu Group. Is he really the president of Gu Group? I said he was a cripple. How could he be the president of Gu Group? This invitation is real. It has my own seal on it. You haven't seen it. It's normal. What he said Did I hear that correctly? Hum him Showing him off to us I am the chairman. Qin Shiyue, you are so bold! Dare to impersonate the chairman at the chairman's welcoming banquet Sister, stop making trouble. If the chairman knew you were impersonating him Our Qin family should not be content with this anymore. You're really exaggerating. Qin Shiyue You and your crippled husband are singing the same tune here. A double act? Director Wu and the chairman will be here in 5 minutes. Get these three people out of here right now! Then you take a look This invitation You guys know each other, right? How come the invitation in his hand is the same as ours? Is it true? You have an invitation Why didn't you take it out earlier? How do I know? I still need an invitation letter. Deputy Governor This invitation was indeed given by me. But I didn't invite you. My uncle and aunt Because of your identity You are not qualified to attend this reception. What are you still standing there for? Catch him for me These idiots Even Mr. Gu of Gu Group doesn't know him. Mr. Gu I tried my best Fang Zhibin, General Manager of Tianlong Group's Marketing Department, My big brother is here Qin Shiyue, you are finished Wait for me later Big brother knows you are pretending to be the chairman here See how you survive in Gan County Mr. Fang, you are here. Brother, you are finally here. There was someone just now Impersonating the chairman here? Who is so bold? Dare to pretend to be the chairman That's his elder brother. You are a senior executive at Tianlong Group You must have met the chairman. I just got promoted How can I have the chance to meet the chairman? So many people I can't lose face. certainly That's natural I've met the chairman. I've been busy with the trade war lately. When did he see me? I told you to talk nonsense here Impersonating the Chairman Be careful with your words Not pretending Originally Menstrual affairs in the Qin Dynasty until now How dare you pretend to be the chairman? Mr. Fang has met the chairman If you see him, you're dead. Sister, please leave quickly. If things get out of hand later Angered the chairman Our whole family will suffer the consequences. Did I let him go? This kind of person should be brought before the chairman. Kneel down and admit your mistake to the chairman personally Is there no one left in Tianlong Group? How can such a brainless person Became the general manager You dare to scold me Sister, please apologize to Mr. Fang. Don't wait until then It has affected the cooperation between Zhang Hai and Tianlong Group. He is the one who should apologize Lili, let's go! Your sister offended the senior executives of Tianlong Group The chairman should be blamed We are the ones implicated Sister, this is your own fault, don't blame me The security guards threw these people out. Don't let the chairman see this fake Are you sure you want me to go? If I leave now You will regret it in 5 minutes. Hahaha The only person who can make me regret is the chairman Who are you? Qin Shiyue, I think you've been daydreaming too much, right? You really think you're a big shot. You still want to stay here? You have brought shame to the Qin family. Qin Shiyue, you should be more sensible Just take your crippled husband and get out of here Get out! Get out! Get out, get out, I'll accompany you. If you want to leave I'll go with you I can go now I need to take care of one thing before I leave. You don't want to brag again at the end, do you? Within two minutes Help me fire Fang Zhibin from Tianlong Group And Yang Jun and Feng Qingming from Tianlong Steel Plant Hahaha I guessed it. He really wanted to show off before leaving. I want to fire you. Do you really think you are the chairman? Cousin, I think you are really crazy The bullishness is a bit too much I can't help you either. What did you say I was fired Fired What do you do, Qin? Hey, she's my wife. So I ask you to be respectful. You are the chairman. Is he really the chairman? No wonder it looks so familiar It's all because of you that I offended a big shot. Get me up What kind of big shot is he? He is Li Yuehua's useless daughter's husband There must be some misunderstanding here. How could he possibly fire you? Ladies and Gentlemen, Qin Shiyue and I have known each other for more than 30 years. He can't be some big shot. Then why were the three of us fired? Two minutes left Director Wu and the chairman are coming soon I'll have to ask clearly then. Why was I fired? Yes, maybe all this is a mistake. You dare to play tricks on me? You hit me Qin Shiyue, you dare to hit me Brother, don't you want to stay in Ganxia anymore? you I'm helping you clear the water in your brain. You should thank me for coming. Throw them out. roll You said you had to brag so much Okay, everyone's recognized, right? I haven't met the chairman of Tianlong Group yet. Haven't you already seen it? I am your husband So don't pretend in front of me. The doctor just threw him out like that. What if he is really the chairman? You've been hit in the head, right? If he is really the chairman He can work as a cleaner in a steel factory, right? How do you explain this dismissal? What was that phone call? I really want to be fired. At least there should be a formal notice. The deputy factory director is still smart. I almost did. I was intimidated by this woman. Look at your achievements Director Wu arrived Hey, Director Wu You are finally here Why The chairman didn't follow. Is the chairman not here yet? No It shouldn't be He is never late Chairman, you haven't arrived yet? Take a call Hello I'll come over now I have some things to deal with here. Can you do it alone? oh Oh yeah Although we have received the certificate But both parents still need to meet. I have booked a private room at Tianlong Hotel tomorrow Remember to bring your parents. He wouldn't take this contract marriage seriously. oh Hello, Chairman Where are you? OK I will definitely teach them a lesson. good You stupid idiots Annoyed the chairman Hey, Director Wu This is impossible How dare we anger the chairman? Among them There must be some misunderstanding. yes We didn't even meet the chairman. I just received a notification you And both of you have been fired by Tianlong Group. This is impossible. Why did he fire us? I don't know the specific reason. You guys take care of yourself. No, hey Cheng Cheng Ah, I know. It must be Qin Shiyue pretending to be the chairman The chairman discovered The chairman must think We didn't get rid of this faker. So punish us Qi Shiyue You got me fired. I must avenge this Hello Okay, I'll come over now. I have some things to deal with here. Can you do it alone? oh Oh yeah Although we have received the certificate But both parents still need to meet. I have booked a private room at Tianlong Hotel tomorrow Remember to bring your parents. He wouldn't take this contract marriage seriously. oh Hello, Chairman Where are you? OK I will definitely teach them a lesson. good You stupid idiots It actually annoyed the chairman Hey, Director Wu This is impossible How dare we anger the chairman? Among them There must be some misunderstanding. yes Our Chairman I haven't seen him. I just received a notification You and the two of you All of them were fired by Tianlong Group This is impossible Why did he fire us? I don't know the specific reason. You guys take care of yourself. No Cheng Cheng Ah, I know. It must be Qin Shiyue pretending to be the chairman. The chairman discovered The chairman must think We didn't get rid of this faker. So punish us Qin Shiyue You got me fired. I must avenge this Ah Yue, you are back Have you seen the chairman? I didn't arrange a good job for you. I was offered a good job. Oh, that's great. My daughter is promising. Qin Shiyue What are you worried about? Why did you hit my daughter? I hit him lightly. A good reception was ruined by him. Even my son-in-law lost his job. It's all your daughter's fault. A Yuan, is what your aunt said true? Mom, listen to my explanation. They are not worthy of the position I fired them It's completely in accordance with the company's rules. Fire me, who do you think you are? You are pretending to be the chairman. You pissed him off My son-in-law lost his job. So many years Did he work well? Has your work ability improved? Mom, why did you hit me? Look, this is the good daughter you raised. She now annoys the chairman I'm afraid our entire Qin family will be destroyed in her hands. He must apologize to the chairman in person. Ask the chairman to reinstate Yang Jun's position Otherwise we won't have you as a relative. I will not reinstate Yang Jun's position Aunt, just give up on this idea. Look, he apologizes to your aunt right away. I didn't do anything wrong Why should I apologize? Can violence solve your problems? You have always spoiled him since he was little. Okay, okay. Stop playing double act here. If October doesn't apologize We don't have your rich people. It's fun to apologize to yourself Ah Yue, otherwise you should just listen to your aunt. I will go to the chairman to apologize tomorrow. dad Why do you say that too? The key is that we don't know where the chairman is. Where to apologize? I heard Yang Jun say this There will be an investment promotion meeting at Tianlong Hotel in a few days. The chairman will attend It's all because of this crazy woman, Master Jin If he hadn't offended the chairman How could we be fired? Do you want your job reinstated? How can you do it? There will be a table banquet at Tianlong Hotel in a few days. I heard the chairman will come too. Then we just need to tie up Qin Shiyue Let him kneel down and apologize to the chairman. The chairman is happy We will definitely resume our duties. Why I thought you were smart. Yeah, that's it. I've long seen that Shiyue is unhappy This time I'll teach him a lesson. Come and do it Done Sister booked such a good private room at Tianlong Hotel At least several hundred thousand. Where do you get so much money? Don't ask me to clean up your mess if you don't have money later This box was reserved by Haonan He arranged to meet his parents today It's a good opportunity to discuss it with my parents. See how you two get a divorce. It was you who was asked to get married by my mother. Now I'm getting divorced again What on earth do you want to do? I want you to get married. But I didn't ask you to find a cripple. This is for your own good. You said you were looking for such a cripple Can't make money You have to serve him every day. People have jobs After all, he works at Gu Group. You are so naive What's a cripple thinking when he tells a story? He'll be here soon. You guys should stop talking. Hey Ahao When are you going to tell your wife the truth? Don't worry, mom. I'll tell her in two days. Why Let's go in first. Maybe everyone will come Good This is the first time I meet my parents Let us wait here. This is obviously looking down on us. Mom, it's because we came too early. As soon as I got married, I started speaking for my mother-in-law's family. I really raised you as my daughter in vain Sorry uncle Auntie, I'm late. This is my mother. These are Ayue's parents. Hello Hahaha You are my daughter-in-law it's beautiful Hello, Auntie Dear relatives, haven't you ordered the food yet? Just order whatever you want. Premium Miyazaki Steak 25,800 I heard that the food at Sirius Hotel is expensive I didn't expect it to be so expensive What do you want to eat? Just order and pay for it Is he a cripple and has money? How does Qin Lili speak? Auntie, don't worry too much. It's okay I'm telling the truth. A meal here costs at least hundreds of thousands. How can a cripple like him get the money? Waiter's Prime Steak Premium black and white caviar Braised Sichuan Peppercorns in Abalone Sauce One pill per person And another bottle of Conti Okay ma'am. Oh my god! Ordering this table of food would cost at least several million. If you don't have money, don't pretend Are you sure you want to have dinner here? Swell up your face and pretend to be fat This is the most upscale hotel in Gan County. Poor people like you dare to invite us to eat here Why don't you ask your mom to order something cheaper? This is too expensive. It's okay. I can still afford this amount. Poor people like you I've seen a lot I have spent all my life's efforts to borrow money from everywhere Not just for this one time. Eat it yourself I won't eat a single bite. Save the trouble of having to pay the bill from us later. You guys are not allowed to eat a single bite. Yeah, not bad Don't you want to try it? Good good good Mom, they're paying for it anyway. How about we try it? Look at your achievements He just wants to use us. When we open our mouths I can't tell when I pay the bill. No, they will wait. If you really can't afford it Isn't it embarrassing? I have to say hello to Xiao Zeng first You don't try certainly Mom, look at me. Qin Shiyue's mother Don't blame me. After all, I have never eaten anything wrong in my life. Haven't seen these things. How can I bear it? Sister, you must have eaten this yourself. You'll pay for it yourself later. Don't worry, I don't count on you. Let's get down to business Since your son and my daughter have obtained a marriage certificate Then there should still be a dowry. That's natural. Your family has such a good daughter. Marry this stinky boy from our family The gift must be given Our family's gift will not be low. At least 800,000 If you are short of 800,000, don't even think about marrying our daughter. Are you sure it only costs 800,000? Just look at the cheap clothes you two are wearing. I'm afraid I can't even come up with 10,000. How do you know I can't get it? Just this table of food costs more than 800,000 We are going to marry a daughter-in-law. Naturally, it needs to be more grand Give enough pomp You are really good at praising Qin Shiyue, and you still have the nerve to eat here If you hadn't offended the chairman Can my husband be fired? You give me my dad's job. You gave my dad his job. Ahhhh Who told you to hit people at will? Your parents taught you this. It's okay. You dare to hit my son? How dare you hit my son? Your father and his friends bully your mother. You must teach them a lesson. How dare you bully me? You can't control your son. We'll take care of it for you. Is it our fault? I am Yang Jun's son It's not your turn as a cripple to teach. Like father, like son Who are you talking about? Who is his father? I will tell you Qin Shiyue, you really treat us like soft persimmons They teamed up with this outsider to bully us Look what you said We are all our own How can you say it's bullying? Auntie, you treat us as your own people 70 months may not be We kindly introduced him to Steel Cleaning in iron factory But what about him? He actually teamed up with this cripple Together they ruined my husband's job. How do you calculate this account? Why waste so much time talking to him? Can't you see it yet? These people united together. Ah Yue was wrong about this matter I'll let him give you an explanation. Um you ah Wow, it's over. This is going to be a good show Making a fuss Isn't it just a meal? How much is it worth? Sister Tang, you haven't eaten here before, have you? What nonsense are you talking about? I often eat here. The table just now costs at least 2 million Correction 5 million to be exact Who are you trying to fool with 5 million? This meal alone is worth 5 million Please show him the receipt. snort Tens and hundreds 5.8 million Not modesty How can a poor guy like you afford such an expensive meal? You don't have to worry about whether we can afford it or not. Your son ruined our meal. Tell me how to compensate. Mom, I didn't mean it. Why are you so fierce? You scared my son. He is so timid. When I just dropped the table Why didn't you think he was scared? My son said he didn't mean it. What else do you want? Whether it was intentional or not If you break someone else's things, you have to pay for it. Forgot to tell you That 5 million is just food money. Plus tableware and decorations At least 8 million What should we do with this husband of 8 million? Oh, I see. They teamed up to blackmail us. Oh no wonder you ordered such expensive dishes It turns out that he knew we were coming to eat today. Deliberately blackmailing us Not a vegetarian Let's ignore him. Let's go slower It's not easy to leave Dad, why don't we go? You're blackmailing us. You can't leave your sister behind. Oh, she should solve her own problems herself. no Who are you? How dare you stop us? I am Qin Shiyue's mother-in-law oh You are the cripple. Oh my god, no wonder he looks so poor. you It turned out to be Qin Shiyue's relative who looked down on others. No wonder this family of three is so uneducated you Qin Shiyue, wait for me Let's slowly settle this account. Don't be late Let's settle this account on the ground now. My husband, what should I do? You won't really ask us to pay 8 million, right? What are you afraid of? Look at your cowardly look. The manager of this store But my eldest aunt's daughter's eldest son He will come over later and I will say hello. It's OK. Yeah Zeng Li They smashed our food. See how you compensate. Uncle, I am your nephew. You don't remember me ah It's Yang Jun who still wet his pants in junior high school Right? Oh, uncle My son accidentally made this Give me some face Let's just forget about this. Who are you? You want me to give you face? We are relatives. Your family and mine have had no contact for 800 years. Clear your mind Have you ever seen how much these losses are? Ask him for compensation Daughter-in-law is handsome These are the dinner plates from the entire Hermes range Each piece is worth hundreds of thousands. This set costs at least several million. Including ingredients, the total is 9.5 million ah 9.5 million It's over. It's over. It's all your fault that I didn't beat you to death Enough, you dare to hit my baby son Wait till I get back and see how I deal with you 9.5 million Cash or Card Isn't it just the cost of a meal? Credit Card Hey, where did you get so much money? This is my own business What does it have to do with you? The deputy director's annual salary is only 800,000 yuan. You can easily come up with 9.5 million It seems that he has made a lot of money in recent years. Hey, hey, hey, please be careful with your words. Be careful, I will sue you for defamation You know whether I am talking nonsense or not. Insufficient balance I have 10 million here. Insufficient balance Damn it, I I forgot where to invest this money in stocks. This gentleman You only have 800 yuan in your card More than 9 million left Brother-in-law, if you really can't come up with the money I have a solution. Cousin, I knew you wouldn't ignore us. Alas, Shi Yu You don't really want to help them, do you? Of course not Brother-in-law, aren't you unemployed? Our Tianlong Group is in need of waiters. 5,000 per month You and your sister have worked here all your life. I should be able to afford it. I know you have no good intentions. How dare you bully my daughter-in-law? I'm afraid you won't get out alive. handsome This gentleman If you can't come up with 9 million Either with fair debt Or I'll call the police. Hey, don't. Do you have it? I don't have that much money. What can I do? I sold the beauty salon. Only more than 4 million How about this? I once mortgaged my husband here. I will redeem him when I raise 9 million. Husband, you do your best here. My son and I went to raise money first Hurry up, wife Remember to redeem me Let's go I'll take you to redeem Xi first Work Environment with the chapter Hey, will your family come back in October? He disappeared long ago. Oh, my gift. It hasn't been sent out yet. Hey, this is Mr. Qin's hometown That's right Mr. Qin is the president of the world's largest group. I didn't expect to live in such an ordinary house Um It's not a good idea to abandon Ah Yue. Dad and sister caused this themselves She should solve it herself. Mom, there's a bunch of people outside. Surrounded our house What Could it be that my sister has caused trouble again? Come and settle the score with us now You damn girl I'm in trouble all day Where is Auntie now? You and Haohao are already married What about this bracelet? It's our Gu family's heirloom. I'll pass it on to you. Oh, Auntie This is expensive, right? I can't collect It's not expensive. It's just that it's been a long time. Come put some on. It's not expensive, just over 6 million Hahaha, thank you, auntie What? I'll be back soon. how Uh, nothing. There are guests at home Auntie, I'll come see you another day. Oh well Slow down on the road Look what a good wife. Look at the good things you did How dare you bring a wild man back? Sister, didn't you just get married to that cripple? How come you hooked up with another man so soon? You don't know this, right? That must be because the cripple couldn't satisfy him. I never saw such a daughter in the Qin family. It's bad luck. Like this woman I used to be put in a pig cage. What wild man? I don't understand what you are saying. See for yourself Eric Philip Why are you here? Mr. Qin Mr. Qin, we are facing an unprecedented financial crisis. I need your help, Mr. Qin. Mr. Qin Did I hear that correctly? These two foreigners called this dead girl Mr. Qin Mr. Qin must be his nickname outside Or you understand I don't care what you say Get out of here with these wild men! I'll just pretend I never gave birth to a daughter like you. Mom, you misunderstood. They are my business partners. Business Partners You think you are some big boss? That's right I am the boss of the world's largest group. That's right I am the boss of the world's largest group. Sea Lord, are you really that capable? Why are you still working as a cleaner in a steel factory? He has been acting for a long time. I believe it myself Haha shut up You cannot question his identity. I don't care what you brag about. Get out of the Qin family right now He must be kicked out. Get out. Get out! Get out! Mr. Qin I didn't expect we would cause you so much trouble. It's none of your business I wonder who dares to disrespect Mr. Qin. Hey, Moon What is going on? What do these people do? Dad, they are really my partners. This is the head of the International Business Alliance. This is the director of the American Business Alliance. Just blow it. International Business Alliance It's the world's largest business organization. You got a nigger like this from Africa I want to pretend to be the leader of the International Business Alliance You are so brave So many actors please It must cost a lot of money. We are not actors We are Mr. Qin's apprentices and subordinates. If it weren't for this financial crisis We dare not disturb you here. You're kidding. What kind of business crisis can a working girl like her solve? Mr. Qin, you must help us This business crisis has had a huge impact on us. At least 100 million is lost every hour 100 million per hour 100 million sounds like the truth You're such a good actor. Why not go to Hollywood? show me Dump all traditional industry stocks Buy all AI Robot Industry stocks Turn your losses into profits within 2 minutes And all stock prices have doubled 100 times 100 times means you can earn at least 200 million every minute. right Why Are you doing a skit here? Tens of billions or even hundreds of billions Hahaha crazy crazy Is the world crazy or am I crazy? If bragging is against the law I would have called the police to arrest them. He should be sent to a mental hospital. Two hundred million may be a lot for you. But to me it's just a number How can he brag so much? Bragging is also a skill We haven't learned yet. The AI robot industry has been in a loss-making state Are you sure you want to buy in full? Sure Deep into this tiger life Only bought 300,000 All lost He dares to buy Yes, I also heard that AI industry stocks plummeted. The market is rising or falling You'll know in a minute. You don't really believe his lies, do you? Like him They should be driven out of Gan County. Drive out of Gan County Get out Get out Get out of here, don't worry. Do you dare to make a bet? If the stock falls Then I will do as you wish. Leaving Gan County But what if the stock goes up? If it goes up We will kowtow to you and admit our mistakes. And I will never drive you out of Gan County again Okay, that's settled. What about the rest of you? What is there to be afraid of? If he really has the ability He's been working outside for 5 years but can't make it. I agree I agree I agree Wait for the data to be refreshed I see how you pretend Ah Yue, you don't have this ability Let's not be so strong. Dad, believe me. The data is out how's it going Is it going up or down? It's definitely falling That bone has been broken for a year. I don't believe that one word from him can make him rise Qin Shiyue, get out of here by yourself Or should we kick you out? You haven't seen the results yet. How do you know I lost? No need to look, it's definitely the dad I'm sorry. That disappoints you. ah impossible This is absolutely impossible impossible This is absolutely impossible It's really long This damn girl really has this ability Sister, he must be guessing I knew this stock would rise so sharply. I won't run out. Hey grass Thank you so much You're welcome In the future, just give me a call for such trivial matters. Uh-huh It's impossible that you got it right by sheer luck. Yes, it must be guessed right. If you can't afford it, don't play Now that you're playing Be willing to accept defeat Kneel down Sorry, sorry. Sister, we are all neighbors in the village Why do you have to embarrass them? When they were giving me trouble Why don't you come out and talk? I heard you worked as a waiter at Tianlong Hotel. Don't mention this account. I'll wait until the investment banquet. Let's settle the score with Qin Shiyue all at once We were all fired by the chairman. No invitation How to enter the invitation letter I heard that Director Wu was going to send an invitation letter to the Qin family. In two days? It's the Qin family dinner I will ask Madam Qin for two. Shouldn't be a problem Hahaha It has to be you That's right Ha ha ha ha Sorry I'm late Qin Shiyue You actually brought this cripple to the family dinner. You're not shameful enough. You're crazy. This is a family dinner. All the Qin family relatives are here You actually brought this cripple back with you. Haonan is my husband He is also a member of the Qin family. Fully qualified to attend the family dinner Okay Stop embarrassing yourself here. You and this cripple Sit at the small table at the door. Don't get in my way Grandma, Haonan and I did nothing wrong Why should you treat them differently? Why You made me lose my position as deputy director of the steel plant. You let us take leave and we can't hold our heads up in the whole Gan County. You offended that big shot. Don't analyze your own mistakes when you make them Go find trouble for others No wonder your Qin family has big shots to help Still can't achieve anything big What did you say What's wrong? My aunt is old. My ears don't work well. Enough The chairman will send someone over soon. Send an invitation letter to tomorrow's investment promotion conference You two Or get out of here. Or just wait at the door. Don't embarrass me here. mom What invitation letter Tomorrow is the annual investment promotion conference Chairman of Tianlong Group He wants to send some invitations to our Qin family. Chairman It must be for our Yang Jun's sake. Just sent the invitation Sister Tang, please stop flattering yourself. My brother-in-law is no longer the deputy factory director. He is just a waiter at Tianlong Hotel. Where is the face? Where do I look? The chairman is just for our Zhang Hai's sake. Just send it over I was the one who sent the invitation. Hahaha Why are you blowing again? My cousin, it's already this time. Why are you still trying to attract attention? As my No need for sensationalism Your identity Hey Qin Feng You didn't tell me you were coming back. Mom, Gan County will hold an investment promotion conference tomorrow. I made this temporary decision to come back. Why don't you bring your wife back? You know, he'll be back tomorrow. Brother, you're back just in time. Just now Qin Shiyue said He arranged this invitation. Qin Shiyue Hey, long time no see. You still haven't gotten over your habit of bragging. Breeze I didn't expect you to be so short after not seeing you for a long time. Grandma This invitation But your grandson begged your granddaughter-in-law for a long time. Just coming back Yo My grandson is awesome. Your granddaughter-in-law is amazing. Grandma, I'm the special assistant to the chairman of Tianlong Group. Didn't I ask you to deliver the invitation in person? Where are you, Chairman? Sorry I'm sick today. My boyfriend said he was going back to Gan County So I asked him to send it over. Okay, I know. You take a rest Our Qin Feng is a senior executive of Story Group. The future daughter-in-law is also the special assistant to the president of Tianlong Group Hey, what's so great about that? Ouch Hey, where is our invitation? Tomorrow's investment promotion meeting The people who came here are all top business tycoons. Your family At best, he is just a tea server, hahahaha No wonder it is popular to break off relations in society nowadays. If I had people like you who are sycophants Extremely vain relatives I also broke up What do you mean? Or do you need me to translate it for you so that you can understand it? Is that beastly talk? It's not your identity, kid. How dare you talk to me like this? This guy is Qin Shiyue's crippled husband. No wonder I said, what happened when I entered the house? Smell a familiar smell It turns out that he smells sour. Damn cripple, I advise you to be careful with your words My brother is a senior executive of Gu Group. Be careful Your job as a security guard at Gu's Group is no longer secure. How dare a little security guard talk to me like this? Be careful, I will fire you when I get back. Do you dare? I'm the president of Gu Group. A cripple dares to pretend to be a CEO in front of me Did you know Ah, I was appointed to this job by the president himself. Security Manager Oh, it's a watchdog. I'll tell you Usually this kind of small position There is no need for the president to personally approve the order. What do you know, you dead cripple? Ah, my job It's a very important department in the company. Don't talk nonsense to him. Why do you keep people like me? Find a few people to throw him out quickly. Hello Throw this cripple out of here. If you want to throw me out, throw me out too. It's the opposite of heaven Grandma, she caused my husband to lose his job It made our entire Qin family lose face in Gan County. She is the sinner of the Qin family Not qualified to lead the Qin family Get her out of the Qin family Although Ma Ayue likes to brag But it won't kill you. Don't throw her out. Whatever mom says A Yue is also your granddaughter Please don't kick her out of the Qin family. He has repeatedly damaged the reputation of our Qin family. Treason As the master and servant of the Qin family, I have decided to expel Qin Shiyue from the Qin family. Mom, stop talking. I want to drive you out together. Grandma, are you sure you want to kick me out of the Qin family? OK This will be the decision you regret most in your life. Haonan, let's go Aunt Is it worth it to offend the Qin family for me? It's none of your business you Hahaha, you caused the three of us to lose our jobs Should we settle this account? What do you want to do? You pissed him off by pretending to be the chairman. Tomorrow is the investment promotion meeting I'll take you to the chairman to kowtow and admit your mistake. Maybe he will reinstate us if he's happy. How did you pig-brains survive until now? Who are you scolding? Don't you understand? I am the chairman Ha ha Death is approaching Children, brothers, come on Yeah You are not a cripple Death is approaching Dare to show affection I'll kill you I you you I will kill anyone who dares to touch Ah Yu again I didn't expect my husband to be so handsome Hello, Madam This whole villa is yours. This is the smallest villa in our family's name. Only when I go to Gan County Come and stay occasionally You are not really the president of Gu Corporation, are you? I was You just didn't believe it. By the way, weren't you kicked out by the Qin family? Why don't you move to my house? Is your home suitable? What's wrong with this? We are a legal couple. Ouch! Ouch! My daughter-in-law Ha ha Welcome home Hahaha Sit here with mom. My daughter-in-law is hungry. Auntie, I'm not hungry. Why do you still call me aunt? Oh my god hahaha That's right. My daughter-in-law is back for the first time. Go make him something delicious. Got it? You After marrying into our Gu family You can let him do all the housework in this house I have been training you for almost 30 years. Hahaha ok aunt Why do you still call me aunt? Okay mom Hahahaha so nice Ha ha Eat now Come on, daughter-in-law Try my cooking, thank you mom How does it taste? Yeah, like a five-star chef. Haha, if you like, eat more. Don't be surprised that my mother sent me to Nanyong since I was young. Training is to take better care of the future wife I like Auntie's education method. Your legs are fine. Why pretend to be lame? Because I want to test if I have a physical defect Will you dislike me? It turns out that I was right. Oh yeah You say it first Tomorrow is the annual investment promotion conference Do you want to participate Um Don't worry, I have an invitation. I'll take you there I forgot he had an invitation. I was just thinking of sending him one. good Who beat you up? She was beaten by Qin Shiyue's crippled husband. Even a cripple could beat you up like this. He's not a cripple at all. He's pretending. I'm telling you this Wait till I see him tomorrow I'll settle this account with him. Oops, it's gone. This is because it is inconvenient for Mrs. Qin to go Just let it go There is one more for Qin Shiyue It's not what you do for him. I say you are stupid, you are really stupid Then Qin Shiyue won't go How to make him kneel down and kowtow to apologize to the chairman? How to restore our position What about you? Do you have any? My uncle gave me one I happened to be taking Qingqing with me. no Then what should I do? You don't have any relationship with me You can't blame us if we don't get it. oops Don't worry, when the time comes We will plead for you in front of the chairman. ah Hey, go, go, go Then this matter depends on you. Sister, why are you here? Why can't I be here? You are not welcome here Sister, please go away When the chairman comes, you'll be done. I am a VIP here No one dares to touch me What a big tone! Hey, how does the security guard of Tianlong Hotel work? How can anyone be put in there? I have an invitation. What about your invitation? Oops, the invitation is with Haonan. Humph, I knew you didn't have an invitation. He has no invitation Sneak in and take him Get me out I said I have an invitation. Only on my husband. He's in the bathroom now. That cripple Wasn't he kicked out by Sister Qin? How dare you come to the investment promotion conference? This Qin Shiyue is probably working outside for rewards Dare to go into any occasion I do have an invitation. You'll know when my husband comes back. Time is too much for a poor person like you. Maybe it's just a string of numbers. For successful people like us One minute may represent tens of millions So I am this person The thing I hate most in life is waiting Hey, throw him out. etc. Hey brother-in-law How do you speak for him? The person who tied the bell must untie it He, Qin Shiyue, offended the chairman He must let Qin Shiyue personally apologize to the chairman Return our jobs I see. So I have to let him stay here. Oh my god, my earrings are gone. Security guard: My earrings are limited edition Prada How many millions is it worth? Could it be that it was stolen? It is impossible that the people who come to this investment conference are either rich or noble. How could you steal someone's things just for 1 million? We will not But some people don't You must have stolen Qin Shiyue I didn't expect such a grand banquet. A rat shit got in there Dirty stuff Sneaking into the party to steal things Do you have any evidence that I stole it? If not I apologize for what you just said. Everyone present is worth over 100 million. It's impossible to do it for just 1 million And tarnish your reputation You're just a country girl. I've never seen anything this good in my life. I just said that I saw something wrong with you just now Always following me secretly It turns out that he just wanted to take advantage of the opportunity to steal my earrings Speculation without evidence I can sue you for defamation. Yes, arrest him. Catch him Catch it Catch him for me now. Such a scum It should be handed over to the chairman. You guys are crazy I am the chairman I think you are crazy. Hahaha Don't say more. Your sister has been kicked out of the Qin family. How dare you pretend to be the chairman? You guys, hold him down. Kneel down and admit your mistakes Sister, please admit your mistake to the chairman. Offended the chairman of Tianlong Group It offended the entire business community. Which company dares to sue him in the future? You are all blind. Short-sightedness The chairman has arrived I see how arrogant you are. Let him go What's going on? He falsely accused me of stealing his headset Dare to touch my wife You don't want to live anymore Aren't you a cripple? Installed Why is this good person pretending to be lame? I'm free. What kind of person are you? I tell you Dare to cause trouble here This is the territory of Tianlong Group Hey, the chairman of Tianlong Group is here. You won't live till tomorrow. Really? I want to try it. Get out of the way or I'll throw you out together What if I don't let you? You said I stole something There's surveillance here. We'll know after we take a look. They can't see the surveillance. Ah, let me look for it again. Maybe I accidentally dropped it on the ground. ah I found it. It really fell to the ground. Fang Qingqing, please use your brain next time you speak Next time, frame me. Don't blame me for being rude Brother Daqiang just scolded me I didn't mean it. Qin Shiyue, you are a person who was kicked out of the Qin family How dare you be so mean to Qingqing? Say it again Um, who was talking just now? No one. Haonan, let's go and ignore him. Hey wait The earring thing is simple But you impersonated the chairman. Death penalty can be avoided Living a crime Xue Catch it You all said I was pretending to be the chairman. Has anyone seen the real chairman? My brother is a senior executive of Tianlong Group. My brother must have seen it. Of course I have seen You are not the chairman The chairman is a man You're definitely a man You're definitely a man Of course I'm sure In this world No woman can reach the level of chairman You underestimate women. Women are just as capable as men What are you guys still doing? Hurry and capture Qin Shiyue for me Come on, you cowards! I want to fuck you Ah Yue, let's go Why The chairman is coming soon. Is there no chance of reinstatement? This is not necessarily As long as we can capture Gu Haonan I'm still afraid that I can't cure Qin Shiyue Then Qin Shiyue will not deny it later He pretended to be the chairman. Lilili, I need your help with something. You turn on the recording on your phone and then After all, she is my sister. I can't do this, sister. I heard that Zhang Hai's company is short of funds. So as long as you promise me I will make additional investment in Zhang Hai's company on behalf of Gushi and My girlfriend is the special assistant to the chairman of Tianlong Group Just one sentence Additional investment in Zhang Hai's company Lili We are a family Besides, your sister has been kicked out of her in-laws' home. And you are his biological sister. Only you can get close to him Why As long as you can record evidence of him impersonating the chairman Leave the rest to us. All right oops Sister, why don't you want to tell me the truth? Why do you have to pretend to be the chairman? If the chairman knew Our whole family will be implicated. Lili, I'll say this one last time Please open your ears and listen to me clearly. I, Qin October, am the chairman of Tianlong Group. No matter if my wife is the chairman or not I hope you guys get out of my sight OK You are a small member of the Gu Group. Security guard, stop playing big shot with me. Believe it or not, I fired you You can try Hum You wait for me My brother is a senior executive of Gu Group If you offend him, you will be miserable. Hey, I order you to fire a security guard immediately. Gu Haonan right Who is Gu Haonan I think you are crazy Alas What's going on? Is the signal bad? You're lucky, kid. You wait for next time. No need to look back Fire me in a minute. Security Manager Qin Feng You kid Why did you fire me? I offended the president because of you. How is it possible? I, I, I have never met the president. How could I offend him? Brother, didn't you say you know the president? I am a small security manager How can I meet the president? Haven't you seen it now? You, you, you are the president What am I? You are a joke No, there must be some misunderstanding in the middle of the car. I said I was the chairman, but you didn't believe me. He said he was the story president and you didn't believe him. I really don't know How did you guys end up with such a mess? If you blow like this It seems that my words are not credible. Dragon and snake drama can be together with Qin Shiyue What kind of powerful person could he be? no If your IQ has not been developed Why not quickly rebuild the circuit? I see You kid pretended to be the president of Story Group and fired you. Believe it or not, I'm cheating you Big Brother He insulted me You must make decisions for others rest assured Qin Shiyue I am the largest enterprise in Gan County. Director of Tianlong Steel Plant Who in the whole Gan County doesn't give me face? How dare you bully me? A word from Director Wu The whole Gan County will fall three times Mr. Wang is Director Wu's relative. Qin Shiyue actually dared to offend him Please make it clear to me From the moment I came in till now You guys are always looking for trouble. Who can catch me today? Live with him two I offer a reward of 100,000 Come to Zhao Chamber of Commerce within one minute Don't be impulsive. Otherwise you will regret it in a minute. Qin Shiyue's death is imminent You dare to pretend Visitors Give me Stop it, everyone! ah Pee Why are you hitting me? The one I hit is you You stupid idiot I don't even know the chairman. who Chairman Dong Open your dog eyes Look carefully, this is the chairman of Tianlong Group He hahaha Impossible, absolutely impossible She's just a country girl. How could he be the chairman? Director, are you mistaken? Qin Shiyuan is my cousin Work outside for three to five years Why A stupid woman with no merit You actually said the chairman is a stupid woman Not Nicole What are you doing? People like you Chairman, you dare to scold me Start Today Let's break up Ah Nicole Listen to me I didn't know he was the chairman. Let me go Chairman, I have offended the Chairman. Sorry, Chairman. We are late Um I didn't expect that he was really the chairman of Tianlong Group. Chairman Please, please give us another chance. Didn't you all want to throw me out just now? They instructed It's none of our business. Qinshiyuan Chairman, if I knew you were the chairman Lend me 800 guts I wouldn't dare do this to you. As you said Those who have no status You deserve to be bullied. Cousin, please forgive Yang Jun. He is your brother-in-law. You are now my relative. How did you treat me before? My cousin was blind to the truth. As long as you let me stay in the steel mill You can even let me do the cleaning. Be a good person before doing things This is the principle of doing things You can't even be a good person. How can I expect you to do anything? you you And you Get out of the party, everyone! Tianlong Group will never hire you Chairman Qin Shiyue, I am your sister You can't do this to me I have been kicked out of the Qin family. You are no longer my sister. My sister won't throw us out after this, will she? meeting You are his sister. Can you have the same status? Yes, we are born from the same mother. Someone, throw these scum out of here. no I didn't expect you to be the chairman of Tianlong Group. There are many things you didn't expect. You see, I told you I wouldn't chase you away. But we are born from the same mother. Sister, please forgive me. I didn't kick you out. It doesn't mean I forgive you. Thank you for taking the time to Participate in our Tianlong Group Investment Promotion Conference Now let's give the floor to our group chairman Tianlong Group will have an annual order of 10 billion Find new partners 10 billion is worthy of Tianlong Group Really generous I don't know who has this blessing. Able to become a strategic partner with Tianlong Group Needless to say It must be Zhang's enterprise Zhang Hai is Mr. Qin's brother-in-law. Zhang Hai can help the big tree of Tianlong Group The future will definitely support the sky Tianlong Group's strategic partner It must be your Mr. Zhang Mr. Zhang, please take good care of me in the future No, the chairman is my wife. Sister I declare The strategic partner of Tianlong Group this time is my husband This cooperation must be yours Gu Group Such a good opportunity, sis. You would rather give it to someone else than to your own brother-in-law. I gave you a chance You don't know how to cherish Besides, Haonan is not an outsider. He is my husband Is Gu Haonan really the president of Gu Group? I didn't expect that he was really the president of Gu Group. Mr. Gu is too low-key He never shows up in public. No wonder we couldn't recognize him. It's over. It's over. This time I offended two of them at once. Happy cooperation, Mr. Gu Happy cooperation, Mr. Qin This trip back home gave me a lot of feelings It also made me see clearly Who are the business partners that can cooperate with us for a long time? Nicole Re-draft a list of partner companies Good Chairman Shouldn't he The cooperation between Zhang Group and Tianlong Group Cancel it. Impossible. I just offended the chairman. This is over. He will definitely cancel the strategic cooperation with us You said A Yue is the chairman of Tianlong Group Yes, mom. We didn't believe it before. Unexpectedly He is actually the chairman of Tianlong Group I said that Ah Yue would definitely have a bright future. You are all here Moonflower, this is my little gift Sit, sit, sit There must be something wrong when things are out of the ordinary. I said October is so smart and hardworking He will definitely be a big boss in the future Okay, okay. If you have something to say, just say it. Can you ask October to restore our Qin Feng? Yang Jun's position I can't decide this. You have to call A Yue in person. Why We know we are wrong Let the chairman give us another chance Oh, yes, yes, yes, yes We really know we were wrong. this this Mom, if they want to kneel, let them kneel. I don't care about others. But Qin Feng and Yang Juan are our relatives. It's not good for you to do this. They are not my relatives. Mom, don't forget I was kicked out of the Qin family by them. How about it pretty This is it. Miss Qin and Mr. Gu are a perfect match A match made in heaven Look, I'll tell you. You will definitely love me I didn't say I'm in love with you You've come to try on wedding dresses. Doesn't that explain everything? Mrs.Gu Yuehua, call October again Keep kneeling like this. How can they bear it? Yo Still kneeling. oops Shiyue, you are finally back Look at your brother and your brother-in-law. I've been kneeling for two hours. Just forgive them. ah Auntie, I have been kicked out of my in-laws' home. There is no such thing as a brother and a brother-in-law. What did you call me, auntie? We are no longer relatives. Oh my god Please stop talking. Don't annoy the chairman again. mom Just don't worry about it. Two chairmen How long do you want us to kneel? How long can we kneel? Okay, I don't care about this anymore. Hey, hey, no Hey Shi Yue Mom misunderstood you before Don't be mad at mom. Just come back Just come back We are here today to give you a gift. Uncle and Aunt Here is the 80 million betrothal gift Wow 80 million. Did I hear that correctly? Didn't I say that? If you don't want to be too high-profile I originally planned to give 800 million Oh my god, 800 million Okay, please sit down first. This can't We are also planning a wedding tomorrow. Oh, okay. Then what about those two people kneeling? They are willing to kneel Let them kneel. Hey, no Hey, get up oops This Qin Shiyue has been kneeling for so long Not even a sign So what do you say we should do? It's good that his wedding is tomorrow. Let's give him a surprise. Just do it I didn't expect you to become my wife. You look so good today Our marriage lasted about 2 years If both parties are satisfied Can continue to renew But if one party is not satisfied You can make an appointment at any time no problem Mrs. Gu listens to you. Qin Shiyue is really the chairman of Tianlong Group We actually talked about him every day. The villain dies because he talks too much Let's talk less in the future. Oh wow I've never been to such a luxurious wedding in my life. When I get married for the second time Let my sister make one for me too. What did you say Just kidding, don't be nervous Hey, isn't that the county magistrate of Gan County? Why did my sister invite him here? What nonsense are you talking about? With your sister's current status Do you still need to ask? They have to hurry up. Mom is right. Oh haha Dear ones, you are all here. What happened to my mother-in-law last time was related to what happened before that. I didn't take it to heart Let's go, everyone is waiting for you. Come here, please. Tianlong Group and Gu Group form a strong alliance No one can defeat me anymore. There are so many people in the Qin family Why did these people come? Having said that It seems so etc. etc. Isn't this Madam Qin? Why did he come now? Don't you know Madam Qin has already kicked Mr. Qin out of the house. I guess they are regretting it now. Oh my god How come you are here I am the mistress of the Qin family. Can't I come to my granddaughter's wedding? I did not mean that Then you let me go Qin Shiyue, do you still recognize me as your grandmother? Qin Feng is your cousin Yang Jun is your brother-in-law It's alright if you don't help him. Now I've fired them. Do you still consider me your granddaughter? Today is my wedding day It's alright if you don't come to bless me And brought them here to cause trouble A Yue, don't say a word Mom, today is Ah Yue's big day. We'll talk about it later. no He must give an explanation to Qin Feng and Yang Jun today. Otherwise, don't even think about getting married. You not only caused me to lose my job It also caused me to break up with my girlfriend. Hey, let's settle this account today. Cousin, no Qingfeng, would you mind thinking about this? You work at Gu Group How could I fire you? As the president of Gu Group Let me explain to you why he was fired. He Qin Feng pretends to be his boss Offending customers Almost caused the company to lose Cooperation projects worth tens of billions of yuan each year Do you think this kind of person should be fired? He's my employee. Don't say you've solved it. I have to make him pay compensation. That's fine. Where is my granddaughter-in-law? It's all because of you He just broke up with Qin Feng Madam, I broke up with Qin Feng I just think he has bad character. It has nothing to do with the chairman. Nicole I already know I'm wrong Can you give me another chance? Let me go. I really misjudged you. Don't bother me anymore Why Why Oh, Nicole. I can't control my cousin Qin Feng's affairs You have to take care of Yang Jun's affairs. No matter what, Yang Jun is still your brother-in-law. He is in Tianlong Steel Group Even though he has made no contribution over the years, he has worked hard. You didn't promote him. And fire him. Mr. Qin is too cruel. Yang Jun has worked in the steel plant for so many years How can you fire someone just like that? You must give Yang Jun an explanation Otherwise, forget about this marriage. Mom, A Yue is also your granddaughter Today is his big day So many people are watching. Why do you have to make it so embarrassing? I'm not his granddaughter. I've been kicked out of my family. I don't need to explain to any of you. you you Qin Liren You just raised such a daughter. ah Cousin You are developed now You can't disown your relatives. You are the ones who don't recognize your relatives. I was forced to leave by you. Why are you turning the tables now? Hey, everyone, come and see. CEO of Tianlong Group You actually bullied an old woman like me! Oh my god It's alright if you usually favor your elder brother's family. Now A Yue has made progress You favor them. You can't say that. Grandma is always fair and just If it weren't for Qin Shiyue doing such an outrageous thing Grandma wouldn't be so angry. When it comes to getting married, I am not even 1/10,000 of my brother-in-law Yang Jun, I wanted to save your face. But now it seems unnecessary Does he have something on me? Yang Jun secretly lost money The debt is tens of millions If I hadn't filled this hole in time I'm afraid he's still in jail. Hahaha impossible I've never seen him with so much money. Then you have to ask him. What's going on? Wife, I lost a lot of money in stock trading I had no choice but to embezzle public funds. Please forgive me. Hello, Central Army How dare you hide such a big thing from me? Aren't I afraid you'll be angry? divorce The house, the car, and the kids are all mine. You give me a clean house Wife, wife Can You Forgive Grandma in October Shi Yu, can you forgive grandma? Visitors see a visitor out you Police Officer Mrs. Qin Well done Cool Wife Award Fortunately, I am her biological sister. Otherwise, what you did I threw it out to you a long time ago. Then from now on I'm going to hug your wife's thigh And you two If I find out What outrageous things did you do? Next time, it will be you two who will be thrown out. Listen to your sister. Maybe I'll make a fortune. Don't worry, sister. From now on You told me to go east I won't go west. Aunt This is your wedding gift from mom. If Haonan doesn't listen to you in the future You give him this. Good mom Oh my god I am your biological son. Mom knows Remember, in our Gu family, the daughter-in-law is the most important. Take it, mom Kiss one kiss one Kiss one kiss one Kiss one kiss one Kiss one kiss one Kiss one kiss one