elder sister Congratulations! I wish you and your brother-in-law a hundred years of harmony, thank you. My fiance Song Jiao and I are getting married soon Then he will come to the country to find me Whoever you are I will be responsible for you. owe How dare you let me marry you when you are pregnant Meng Xin So fucking shameless What bastard? Song Jiang, this is your child Sister, brother Su Xiao is engaged to you She went on her honeymoon with me that night The baby in your belly is not his at all How is that possible? Could it be that night Congratulations, sister. I wish you and your brother-in-law a hundred years of harmony Mengyao, you are my half-sister How could you drug me to seduce your brother-in-law? Aren't you dog men and women afraid of retribution? cheap Jupiter, you are so stupid To tell you the truth Mom was poisoned by Dad and your mom Keep you Just to get your mother's selflessness that's it. Stop you bitches You bitch Dare to touch Yaoyao child My child Brother-in-law, otherwise we will never do it again As long as Mengxin is dead His mother's company is ours Uncle's paternity test results show that Everybody wants to find this kid It is indeed your child. We just haven't found it yet. madam Keep looking. He's my only wife Whether dead or alive He is Finally back. I want to take back my mother's company to avenge him And find the man from that night Cured Yueyue's leukemia Yueyue's leukemia needs to be followed up as soon as possible Neither you nor your own are sick It seems I want to find Brother Jun and Yueyue's biological father as soon as possible Is Yueyue uncomfortable? No mommy Mommy, I want to eat ice cream Can you buy it? Go ahead. Yeah! Dad, I want to eat cake Zhang Zhe took him to buy it Master confirmed the star cooperation Yes! Star is a world famous jewelry designer There are many companies in China that want to cooperate with him But we got there first. Let them also lose to the Bosch Group Hey Oh, dear. Uncle, your clothes have been soiled by this child. How to pick up stars in a while They're here to save my mommy Star is my mommy I can take you to my mommy I've never heard of stars giving birth This kid must be lying I'm not lying. Just say why is this so familiar with Xuan Xuan? Xuan Xuan Why is that voice so familiar? Xuan Xuan Is it her mommy? Baby tell mommy What's up? This woman has children and is fine It seems that it is either you or the mother of the child. Your child Not only did you get our uncle's clothes dirty And you lied. Say you are a world-renowned jewelry designer Four big clothes only I'll pay for it. And Xuan Xuan didn't lie I just have kids Caught my attention It's kind of new. What! This lady I don't know where you got the news. Know that Bo Ye cooperates with the star So claiming to be a star close to Bo Ye But there are too many women who want to get close to Bo Ye You have no chance. Stars don't work with you narcissists Xuan Xuan, let's go Babies, in the future Don't tell anyone that mom is a star What about the main task of our return to China this time? Is to find dad Heal the moon Do you understand? Got it. Uncle has been so long The stars haven't appeared yet Could that woman be telling the truth? She is a star Go find that man right away Mom Don't worry. I will definitely make those who hurt you pay the price Little friend, why are you here alone? Xuan Xuan Xuanxuan, why did you come out? Mommy Didn't I tell you and Yueyue to wait for me at home? Auntie, you got the wrong person I grew up without a mommy I'm so poor. This child looks exactly like Xuan Xuan Baby, where is your home? Auntie will take you home Can you be my mommy? I'm not dead Also bring a little wild pet To tell you the truth Mom is by dad And my mother was poisoned together How dare you hit me? This slap is a warning to you Shut up if you can't speak Dad and sister ran away with wild men Not only did our Meng family lose face He also offended the Song family Now our Meng family is in trouble Sister should help Your sister is right If you can win Mr. Liu's investment Our Meng family can make a comeback Since you are here Mr. Liu's dinner tonight is up to you It's my mom who doesn't go to this company If it weren't for you The company won't collapse Dad and sister disagree Is that a slap in your face? Presumptuous, you are Sister Meng's daughter Making money for the Meng family is natural Want me to accompany you Don't think anyone will come unfilial daughter Let go of me let go of me Tie him up for me Delivered to Liudun's room Mengyao has the ability, don't bully the child Let go and bring this little bastard back to the dream with you If you dare to touch I dare to cut him Can't find the little master You all go to Mingbei for me Master Wu has found the young master He was with women who called themselves arrogant We found out his name is Mengxi The young master should be taking on the Meng family now That's him! Go to Meng's house Dad, let me go You uneducated little bastard As annoying as your bitch mother I'm going to tell dad You bully me You're just a wild son of your mother and a wild man Where did it come from? My dad is Boyle Ting, he won't let you go Boyting, that's not a doctor Group President Dad, don't listen to this little bitch If his father were Bo Yiting I knelt down to bark like a dog Who said my son is a wild dog? Prince Wang's father Prince Wang Dad? Who gave you the guts to touch my children? How could this be? Isn't he Meng Xing's son? Cut off their hands The prince is really not me It's my sister Mengxi He asked me to bring the young master back I was wronged Yes, yes, yes, my eldest daughter who is not angry. Take care of your son Your parents will spare me and Yaoyao Dad they are lying It's just that someone hit me on the map Long Xiaoyu was taken away to protect me Baozi And I said, &quot;Okay. At Tiandu Hotel Who is bad I'm delicious I'm not wrong to be lonely He's the guy from the airport. You saved me. There are many women who want to be wives But no one dared to take action against my son You are so brave Narcissistic madness Don't think you can be Mrs. Guo just by courting I'll tell you what. Mrs. Guo can only be Hao Hao's mother It's you who don't care about your son He was crying alone under the tree I just talked to him. Who became Mrs. Guo first? actually You don't care about your wife and son at all Otherwise, he wouldn't cry alone Said he missed his mother He smells so familiar Is Meng Qing the father? Dad, I didn't see anything. Leave my house as soon as possible If only Dad could marry Mercy Auntie is fine So I can have a mother Yueyue's mother will definitely find your father Cure your disease I warned you not to hit my son before I woke up I didn't expect you to hide his picture What? Your son? And this is my son. Xuanxuan and her daughter Yueyue This woman's son It looks exactly like Haohao Haohao is inexplicably close to him again Am I asking who the father of your child is? Hello Yueyue's mother will be home soon Mengxin, if you don't reply again I took Xuan Xuan and Yueyue away Mo Anning, don't touch my child And so forth. You let go, I'm going to find my child Yueyue Xuanxuan Mommy Mommy let go Dear daughter, you have climbed the pavilion of the richest uncle on the map Why don't you tell Dad? What do you want? As long as you ask uncle to invest in Meng's I will never treat my grandson badly I don't know Bo Yiting at all You give me back my child The child brought back is Boyi's son Say you don't know him Meng Xin Meng's family also has your mother's emotions You just watched Meng go bankrupt Don't mention my mother You don't deserve it. Humph Dreams are 1 billion As long as you can fill the gap I let them go. Otherwise hum No. Otherwise, hum? I hit you There we go. Old rascal, you made me cry and I hit you The little master and the little lady stay OK Stop Within three days You let the doctor invest 1 billion You let them go? Uncle Sida said he could agree to cooperate with the doctor However, he asked the doctor to invest in Meng Enterprises 1 billion Just 1 billion What I just said is wrong. But why did Steve want us to invest in Meng's? What is his relationship with Meng Shi? Is Star the home planet? Uncle, this is your coffee. How are you uncle What happened to the little master last time I apologize to you for my sister. I came to the uncle's house this time Hiring a maid is also to get your forgiveness Bo Ye I asked you if your sister Meng Xin had learned anything deep My sister didn't even get into college. After getting married, you still have sex with wild men Even the belly is big Disappeared for years before coming back I didn't expect my sister to climb Boyanning Help my son to seduce you again What does the Meng family want to do? Uncle, I know I was wrong. The devil made me do this Here it is. Get out Mom also said to let me find opportunities and game halls Raw rice cooked rice Wake up one step earlier Get 1 billion investment How can I get it now? Bo Yiting has invested Let it go now Xuan Xuan and Yue Bergaken Investments It's your sister who went to the uncle's house to be a fish What does it have to do with you? A maid can get Bo Yiting to pay for 1 billion You guys really put gold on your face Otherwise you say How did you get the Ph.D. to invest? I can't reveal that I'm a jewelry designer Identity as a star Otherwise, I don't know how they want to use it Can't tell As long as you can get Mr. Liu's order. I let them go. Mo Anmin, don't push your luck Otherwise, I'll let Bo Yitian worry about you to death Unfilial daughter can't see good at home Dad, Meng Xin is just scaring him How can he make uncle withdraw his investment? Besides, those two little wild masters are still in our hands In two days, he will obediently accompany Mr. Liu uncle We found this in Miss Mengxin's room This jade pendant Then she comes to the country to find me Whoever you are I will be responsible for you. Dad, I think Aunt Mercy looks a lot like Mommy I like her a lot. Haohao has never been so close to someone Are Haohao and Moxi really Meng Xin? Check it out now Was Meng Xin 7 years ago? A child was born in a fire Uncle, do you suspect Meng Xin? The young lady is the biological mother of the young master Back then, Mu Xin was actually a child of Bo Yuting in his arms No wonder the young master of the Bo family He will look like Mu Xin's son I want to do a paternity test If Mu Xin is really the biological mother of the young master of the Bo family After the truth comes out Isn't he going to step on my head? Mu Xin, I will never let you marry into the Bo family Sensen is a top hacker Use his identity to recruit some people They should be rescued soon. What does big mean? He asked us to invest in Meng Jia a few days ago 1 billion Now they want to divest. Otherwise, the cooperation will be terminated. What does he take our doctor for? Buddha heard that the Great Demon King sent me a letter of help If I do him a favor He can get the star to continue working with the doctor I usually hate people's threats the most So I told him. If the stars don't want to cooperate Then I don't care. Uncle, the Great Demon King went to the Meng family in the morning Rescuing two kidnapped children Meng Xuanxuan and Meng Yueyue Uncle is good Why did you divest? What are those two children? Uncle, why don't I know what you're talking about? I'll count to three. If you don't send Meng Xuanxuan and Meng Yunyun Hand it over to me I'll chop off your hands and feed them to the dogs 123 Dad Hurry up and bring your two children here Meng Xuanxuan and Haohao look exactly the same Most of them are my children Yueyue Xuanxuan Yueyue Xuanxuan Wang Anming, they are your nephews You kidnapped them Threatened me to accompany me to invest Do you think you should take them away? Uncle, the results of the paternity test have come out. What would work? The results show that the biological mother of the young master is The result shows The biological mother of the young master is Miss Mengyao But Meng Xin's son looks exactly like Hao Hao Miss Meng Xin and Miss Mengyao are from the same father Mother's sister So their kids look alike. Shouldn't be surprising Ku Tianao is the child of Jupiter and his uncle Ku Tianao and Kong Xuexue look exactly the same Those two bastards of Jupiter are the children of my uncle Why? I'll give you 10 million Change all the information above for me. It looks like my day is coming Buddha According to the meaning of the Hacker Demon King To bring these two children back to the country Before the dead end is willing to cooperate Don't let them leave What do you want? I don't want no I don't want no Xiuxiu MengXin What is your relationship with the Hacker Demon King? Why did he ask me to save your child? Yes, I am. Xiuxiu If you let everyone know The world's top hacker is a 7-year-old child Maybe it will cause trouble for Xiuxiu I would like to say Bring it back to the uncle's house Why is that my child? Juanjuan, your father Wen Jing you bastard Give me back my child Did you have a child a thousand years ago? Uncle, how do you know? But the baby had just been born. He died in a fire. The child is not dead The young master is really my son On this woman Why doesn't it feel familiar? Buddha Ye Hao Hao is my son I'm glad he's not dead. Since you are Ho Ho's mother Then I will be responsible to you for marrying your mother Really, Luo Yan, let's installment it. No. Haohao's mother misses you so much Bad woman you are not my mother I want to dream of being my mother If it weren't for the fact that my uncle and sister wanted to be burned to death Haohao won't leave me for so long He doesn't even know my biological mother anymore The fire seven years ago It turned out to be put by Meng Xing Why is he in so much pain? Uncle, our marriage When will Haohao accept you? I will marry you when Uncle seems to have to deal with you, little bastard Meng Xuanxuan and Meng Yueyue are in my hands When did you get the big four to agree to cooperate with the doctor? When will I let them go? Amy said Can't reveal his identity OK With bullets You can pretend to be an ordinary person and go to your company for an interview. As for who he is Judge for yourself Brother, I don't want to stay here I miss mommy Don't worry, Mommy will pick us up soon. Admit all the people who come to the interview today Yes static He Yiting, you interview in person Your lady's ability to detect is good All found in my company All the people who came to the interview today were selected for the PhD People do things like this Sure enough, you have to check the company before cooperating Why do you look reluctant? You should be grateful People like you can't get a Ph.D. in the next life Why do you question my efforts? You didn't even look at my resume Why do you believe in Dr. Fan? I know. I'll tell you what. You'd better put away your bad thoughts I already have a fiancee Don't take care of yourself here I just let go Wei Ting, when will you return my child to me? Unless someone I want to work with collaborates with me Otherwise they'll have to stay at my house all the time. Xuan Xuan sent a message saying that he and Yueyue were safe at Bo's house Stay at the uncle's house At least you don't have to worry about being kidnapped and abused by Meng Anming again Threat As for whether to sign a contract with Bai Yiting, the dog man I have to hide my identity for a while If you have nothing to do, please go out. Why did you approach her just now? The same feeling as 7 years ago But Haohao's mother is obviously a shepherd The prince is not good Something happened to the two children of the Meng family Did you break my perfume? No, not yet. I'm hitting my sister Yueyue Your sister broke my perfume What happened when I hit her? I don't have it. The little bastard still doesn't admit it? Hit my sister Uh-huh. Little bitch beat you to death like your mother Daddy bad woman Hit me I hate her Bad uncle, your bad wife hurt my sister Master, don't listen to their nonsense It was that little girl who broke my perfume Ho Ho is my own son How could I possibly be willing to hit him? What is this? Lord Buddha is Hao Hao blocking in front of Mo Yuan I was careless Who gave you the guts to hit my son? Buddha Ye Haohao is also my son So connected How could I possibly be willing to hit him? This woman is Ho Ho's mother after all Next time, get out of the country yourself Sister Yueyue called a car to take her to the hospital Doctor, my daughter Yueyue. How is the patient out of danger? But your daughter has leukemia We need a bone marrow transplant right away Why did I and Yueyue's brother's ashes fail? I want to be their father Yueyue, sorry. It was Mommy who didn't protect Ruoxin well. Who is the biological father of your child? You don't even know It seems that your daughter is hopeless Yeah. How dare you hit me! Don't think it's you who caused me to faint either If anything happens to him again I will definitely let you be buried with Yueyue Prince Wang Anning said He hired an expert to treat Yueyue I didn't expect my sister to not appreciate it. They drove the experts away. And hit me You're not going to do that. When are you staying? Please treat my fiancee with respect Wang Yiting You even believe in a woman with such a femme fatale heart Do you have a brain? You still have the face to say that others have a snake and scorpion heart The fire You Yueyue, don't be afraid Busy, I'll take you home right away You can't take me now Yiting Yueyue He Xuanxuan is my child Why are you so domineering I will fully bear the monthly hospital expenses When the time is up I will naturally let you take you away Lily is fine Lili will be with Brother Xingxing and Brother Hao Obediently wait for mom to pick us up uncle My sister is a woman who knows no good or bad Don't be angry. I only defend you because you are Ho Ho's mother If I ever catch you abusing those three kids again Just go back to the dream Mengxi, I will never let Bo Yutian know You are the biological mother of the child After three months is the best time for treatment If you still can't find the child's father Life-threatening. yueyue Mom will definitely find your Barbie to save you. Mommy, I found out about Barbie. Really? neck Although the father of the child is a national The country's population is not complex Luo Yiting only has one brother With a nephew not much younger than him It's a lot easier to check However, Bo Yiting is also a Bo family member Could it be him who is the father of the children? That's impossible. Yueyue and Xianxian are so cute How could there be such a demon father? Haohao turned out to be the child of Bo Yiting and Mengyao It's incredible. Mommy, I can only find out why Dad is compared. It doesn't matter, just leave the rest to Mommy. Give me a drink. Toast without penalty You are such a bad woman cold If you dare to talk nonsense in front of your dad Make you look like Mo Yun What's wrong with being depressed? If you don't listen Please kill Meng Xuanxuan Kill you again What are you doing? What are you doing? Hao Hao come here What's wrong? Are you crying? How come? A maid bullied Ho-ho I have fired him. Don't worry uncle From today onwards, I will take care of Ho-ho Tell dad to try Find some girlfriends here tomorrow to dance for Haohao I want Aunt Mengxin ho ho Aunt Mengxin will not come to my house to be a woman Start today. Mom take care of you I want Aunt Mengxin Since Haohao likes it Then go greet her If you can't even do this well You don't deserve to be her OK Well, let's go to class The little bastard will really show me Dream Star is here Under my nose I can get rid of him as soon as possible Meng Xin, I am the mistress of this house How dare you disrespect me You hurt my daughter I haven't settled the bill with you yet. What face do you have for me to inform you? What are you all staring at? Hurry up and catch him for me I'm invited by the game court You'd better stay put. In our country You are such a big shelf Uncle and sister are uncertain And hit me Just like that. How can you be called Haohao? Apologize to my fiancee Bai Yiting, this blind man If it weren't for the uncle's house Find the biological father of the children Healing every month I don't want to look at his stinky face all day Unless he apologizes to my daughter first What do you have to do? Teach you how to be a banshee uncle Vixen uncle Don't forget that you have a fiancee. If Haohao hadn't asked you to come by name Do you really think you can enter the uncle's house by yourself? I'm only responsible for taking care of Ho-ho Others I can He is obviously not Haohao's mother Why was there a hooligan on the woman that night 7 years ago? Let go of Yiting I don't blame my sister anymore Spare my sister If you dare to treat Haohao badly I can't spare you. Mengxin, if you dare to seduce me I will kill you I'm afraid you don't have that ability. get out of the way Hello little brother Song As long as you do me a favor I will give the Song family the invited tenders case this time Yaoyao is doing well It's all uncle's people Say what are you busy with I want you to kill Mu Xin Some people I will do anything to marry into a wealthy family Since they are all going to be servants Why are you still coming to the company? Don't worry, you can sign this contract. I'm not in the business department If you don't go, your president will let you go You dare not go I don't want to do it anymore Don't worry, I don't think you can get this design I'm here to do design Not here to accompany the wine Yo Look at the design drawings of the star Star is the world's top jewelry designer Can you understand me? Give it back to me if you can't get this contract I will ask Mr. Bo to fire you Yueyue and Sun Sun are still at Bo's house I want to find their biological father in the Bo family as soon as possible I can't stand it with this dog man and woman for the time being I'll go, but I won't accompany you After all, I am the same as what you are good at What about Meng Xin? I let him take care of him Why did you give it to Meng Xin like this? Take Chanfu to sign the contract Isn't that funny? Blame him for borrowing it himself A divorced woman with children I also want to have a relationship with our treasure manager It's really overkill Hey, Mr. Song Hey, hello. I'm here to sign the contract Song Xiao How are you You don't know who it is. Then you can sign with whoever you come Come have two drinks Brother has been waiting for you for a long time Mr. Song, please sign the contract first Oops, it's a scam Drink these and talk to me about the contract Let go of me! Mr. Song, this is national strength Can you take it easy? Hahaha Mr. Liu, his sister is the fiancee of the President of the State He my ex-wife Come on. Hahaha Who do you say you are not fighting with? Sent us away 4 female deputies today delicious Ah! Hahaha Ha ha. Mr. He Uncle? Ah, forgive me! Uncle? Uncle uncle Forgive me, uncle It seems that you still haven't remembered the lesson I taught you last time. No It's all Song Xiao Song Xiao said that this was his ex-wife I don't know if this is your woman. Get Liu's revenge within ten minutes Get Liu Yong off the map As for him Keep playing Bai Yiting, put me down Thank you today I'll go first The company has so many contracts You have to choose your ex-husband's share How to think about rekindling old feelings I had no idea it was him. Don't think I let you into the doctor I promised you to be Haohao's girlfriend As if I cared I'll tell you what. That's all you need. If my uncle doesn't care about me Why are you grabbing me and asking me about my ex-husband? Don't worry. Even if I rekindle my old relationship with him Won't like you Guo Yiting is a layman Obviously has a fiancee What the hell are you doing to provoke me? Why can't I stop talking about her? Mengyao, you took a blank contract and corrupted me What do you want to do, Mengxin? How dare you speak to the president's wife like this You are not capable enough The contract was not successful. What are you mad about here? Miss Mengyao As I say People like Mengxin who drag down the company Should be fired Meng Xin, I inform you as the head of the department You're fired. What are you doing? Brother Meng Xin and Zhang Tao are here Pack your things and get out Miss Meng Xin Mr. Meng ordered Transferred you to the president's office as his personal secretary What? How is that possible? Tezhu Zhang Did you notify the wrong person? Miss Mengxin just ruined the company's contract Why did this boss give her a promotion? I didn't notify the two of you wrong. Mr. Bo asked you to go to the finance department to settle the salary. Leave immediately Miss Mengxin, let's go Muxi, I will never let you go Mommy, I hacked into the hotel network I found the surveillance from 7 years ago We'll find dad soon Really? Show mommy Looks like he was drugged just like me But why does this back look so much like Bai Yiting? But why does this back look so much like Bo Yiting? They've already clasped their wrists Wrist sac repaired It's okay, there are only a few people in the country anyway The big deal is to do Ding a one by one. Don't be lazy Shit Mengyao Haohao is the little master of the country He's so young You let him mop the floor? My son! I can ask him to do whatever I want Mop the floor for me Otherwise, don't think about eating tonight Don't you dare listen to me Mengyao, do you have a conscience? Do you believe I told Guo Yiting that you abused his son? It's none of your business that I educate my own son And you told Guo Yiting Would he believe it? Guo Yiting is blind So protect Mengyao How could you believe it? Come on, this maid is yelling at the master Teach you a good lesson! Don't bully Aunt Meng Xia scram I'm going to let you know today. Who is the mistress of this house? Stop it What's going on at night? Great grandfather Ok ok hey Why are your clothes wet? Who took care of the young master? Why don't you change his clothes if they're wet? Master Guo, this is the new actress Mengxin doesn't take good care of Haohao at all Such a girlfriend should get out of the country Obviously it's you You let Haohao mop the floor He just got his clothes wet And you often abuse Haozi Abuse Meng Xin What nonsense are you talking about? Ho Ho is my son How could I possibly abuse him? You Haohao told Great Grandpa Has anyone abused you? Nope. Master Guo Meng Xing provoked the mother-son relationship between me and Haohao He should get out of the country immediately Haohao, tell Aunt Meng Sen Is someone threatening you? I don't touch my son Meng Jing you one Bewitching Haohao again I think you are coveting the property of the country. No one wants to harm me Zengsen man Kick this woman named Chu Buzheng out for me I am also quite Dad is a bad daughter Aunt Meng Xin who beat Uncle is not like this It was Meng Xin who taught Haohao bad It's enough to provoke the mother-son relationship between us You take Haohao upstairs to sleep Zhang Ze called a doctor to show him uncle You go too, my grandpa and I are still pregnant The day after tomorrow, the old house sacrifice master You bring Ho Ho with you As for your fiancee? Don't let him come I know Mo Yao is immature But he is Ho Ho's mother I don't want Ho Ho to be like me Growing up in an environment without a mother What do I think? Are you very concerned about taking care of that nanny Haohao? I don't know why. Hao Hao just likes him That's the only reason I kept him at the uncle's house Really? Our uncle is selfish and thin Just a young master like Haohao Whether he is happy or not matters. Hao Hao is not a wayward child He likes and hates whoever has his reasons You have to see clearly Deadpool of course Wait until I become the woman of the game booth tonight I'm afraid I won't have a chance to get pregnant Haohao, our story for today is over We should go to bed. I'm afraid if I don't want to sleep Hao Hao, don't be afraid Auntie asks you that your mother obviously bullied you Why don't you tell dad and great-grandpa? This bad woman will kill me I will also beat Brother Xuanxuan If so Mengyao was actually able to do something to her own son Aunt Mengyao Why aren't you my mother? Hao Hao doesn't cry Auntie will protect you in the future. OK See him cry Just like seeing Xuan Xuan sad Haohao, even if you are Mengyao's son I won't let you suffer the slightest grievance Uncle has only one child in his family, Haohao So deserted Let's get another one I'm not interested in you. As expected of a special aphrodisiac aromatherapy One Day It's Ho Ho who wants a younger brother and sister I'm your fiancee Who else but me Could it be that you think it's Mengxi? shut up Buddha Wang Yiting, you came just in time. I want to tell you about Ho Ho Bo Yiting, see who I am Mengxi Yes, I am Mengxi. Not your fiancee sleepwalking Why is that? Why do you feel like her? But not her. What are you saying? I miss the disaster seven years ago uncle I stayed at Bo's house because I didn't want to be more than my heart I don't want to get involved in what's going on between the two of you Please keep your distance from me in the future Wu Li, let me help you go back to rest If you dare to bully Hua again I wouldn't mind giving him straight back to his mother Uncle Mu Xin is an outsider There is no need to go to our hometown to worship our ancestors with us Won't he go to you to take care of Haohao? I am Ho Ho's biological mother Of course I can take care of him Better than an outsider What's wrong with me? Why do you always want to see that woman? I like to trust more than you Haohao It was him. More like Ho Ho's mother I won't find anything, will I? Impossible my plan is perfect What else is Mo Xian dawdling about? Hurry up Go to the uncle's old house To see all the uncle's family I have a chance to find the biological father of the children Oops, Haohao is here Grandpa Hao I miss grandpa think This is Bo Yiting's brother Bo Yicheng And next to him is his son Bo Tianxiang All I had to do was get their hair and do DNA. This is my uncle's fiancee Hello little aunt Yi Ting You're getting old. Now that I have found Ho Ho's mother Just get married, no hurry I don't like bad women My Aunt Yang Mengxi Be my mommy Hao Hao, don't talk nonsense Grandpa, I'm here this time I specially brought you a gift. I hope you forgive my previous ignorance. Isn't this a jadeite wrench designed by an international designer? This is the only one in the world. Auntie, you are amazing You can buy it. As long as grandpa likes it I obviously gave this jade wrench to a friend. What are you doing here? Mengyao, this must be fake. I have a lot of this stuff No need for another one. Take it back, grandpa The little aunt goes home for the first time to worship her ancestors Don't scare people's face I heard that Xiaoshu has always wanted to cooperate with Star But they haven't been able to cooperate Xiaoshu, why don't you ask little aunt? Maybe he knows the stars I'm actually friends with the stars He gave me this jade wrench In fact, Starr and I are also friends He gave me this jade wrench Bragging doesn't draft Grandpa has a gift for you at the end of summer. It's over, I came empty-handed. Uncle Meng Xin does have a gift for you That's why Haohao brought him to the old house to worship his ancestors A maid Encourage the young master to bring him to worship his ancestors It doesn't depend on your identity But I'm curious What gift can a maid give? Xiao Shen, you have already given such an expensive gift. Are you afraid that you won't be able to put anything on the table? Meng Xin, you are a poor ghost Where did you get the gift? I'd like to see what you do Master He I also have a bracelet designed by star here. The only one in the world Sister, I know you want to appear in front of the uncle I want to continue to be Haohao's actress Holding a high salary in the country But you can't take an inferior product to cheat Bo. Sir, you are a maid Global limited edition bracelet designed by Star How could you possibly buy it? I am real Mengyao's ring is fake Sister, you can't buy a counterfeit just because you don't have money. Even the one who slandered me is fake Jade Wrench Global Limited A quote 1 billion Can you afford that? Although the Meng family has fallen But in the glory days I have also saved a lot of money It doesn't matter if you come up with a billion. It's you, sister You stole money from your family and had an affair with a wild man Give birth to a wild species Now come back penniless Where did you get 1 billion to buy a bracelet? full of lies A chaotic day in private life How could you let such a woman As a good woman Broke him, dad How do you know? Isn't it that my uncle likes this little actress? Enough is enough. Today is a family sacrifice It's not the time for you to be jealous Take your things and leave I don't need it. No, if I don't save my image here My grandfather and Boyting are definitely going to kick me out of the country So how can I find the biological father of the children? What are you doing? I want to know if this jade wrench is true or false. Very simple. What are you doing? Meng Xin, this is my gift to my uncle How dare you break it directly? You don't pay attention to the uncle at all bastard Who allowed you to be a maid? Running wild in the master's house I'm just checking the authenticity for you. Meng Xin What a blessing to smash a gift in front of the owner You not only don't apologize Arguing You're really cursing grandpa for being presumptuous Come Drive this unknowing woman out of my in-law's house Slow down. Bring your fiancee and son You've been lying like this, what does a woman do? Apologize first Sister, I didn't want to argue with you. But you broke something so valuable. You should talk to uncle And the elders of the uncle's family apologize I'm talking about making you apologize. I'm talking about making you apologize. Uncle, what did you say? Obviously Meng Xing Anyone who knows star design works knows He uses fine jade Easily unbreakable Not to mention this one-of-a-kind jade wrench Yours is definitely fake. Boyuan, listen to my explanation That's not true. I warn you I will use this fake thing to fool grandpa in the future We end the engagement Hmph, I can't stand you fooling me No orders from me in the future You are not allowed to step into the uncle's old house Uncle is not like this This emerald ring I also paid a lot of money to buy it. I was also deceived Don't believe that Don't believe that Must be fake How is that possible? Why didn't you sleep? You can't break him Because mine is real Nonsense! How could you have a bracelet made of stars? I see you are made of plastic. Enough is enough. Isn't it embarrassing enough? Mo Yan, I am Haohao's mother I just want to be recognized by the state Yi Ting Haohao's mind is not yet mature Or let him follow you first Let this woman go back to her family to worship her ancestors Don't need him Take him back Demon, you forced me Dare to take Mrs. Bo's place with me I want you dead. Is Xuanxuan Yueyue doing well at home? Yes. I don't think Yueyue is dead Let me see it. Yueyue sister is well Yueyue is fine, look Hello brother Yueyue sister I will never see you again Haohao stopped crying Haohao is good, look at Sister Yueyue, she is fine Who is talking nonsense They scare us. Haohao is not only close to Meng Xin I also like Meng Xin's daughter very much Why exactly? Bo Tianxiang's room is nearby I heard him call in the afternoon saying he wouldn't be back before 12 o'clock That's just right. As long as I can find his hair Take it for DNA testing We can find out if he is the father of the children Hey I didn't expect my uncle's girlfriend to be so horny Come to my room in the middle of the night You misunderstood. I'm just looking for something What am I looking for? You just came looking for me I've seen you peeking at me all day Do you like me? No, it's not. What are you wearing? Are you just an actress from my uncle's family? Don't worry, I'm better and younger than her. Warcraft, I have given birth to my children It's more exciting to have a baby Warcraft let me go Help! I said uncle I'll play for you. What about you? That's what I paid for too Don't you dare touch him again. Go away uncle You got it. And this is my room. Not me. In Bo Tianxiang's room at night I asked you to take care of Haohao I didn't ask you to come and sleep with a man What nonsense are you talking about? I'm talking nonsense to gain Haohao's trust Deliberately move into the country Don't you just want to seduce men? I went to Bo Tianxiang's room Just trying to do the DNA thing I can't say otherwise Bo Yiting won't let me stay any longer I can't listen to what I think Mengxin, let me tell you A flamboyant thing like you You can't get into our house at all Don't worry, the men in my family are just like you. I don't like any of them. Wei Ting, what qualifications do you have to say to me? Do you have a fiancee? Or do this shameless thing with me here? What's wrong with me? Why can't I control it every time? Uncle, you are finally back Haohao's mother misses you so much Come to mom Mengyao Haohao is still so afraid of what you do as a mother What nonsense are you talking about? It must be you. You must have bewitched me Enough son Take Haohao upstairs to sleep OK Uncle Mu Xin can't bring Haohao anymore He doesn't kiss my mother anymore Mengyao, let me tell you If within a week He still loves you so much Get out of the house by yourself uncle Hello dad As long as you help me wake up It's no problem to let Bo Yiting invest in Bu V Doctor, please do a paternity test for me. Good Miss Meng Who is Xuanxuan and Yueyue's biological father? There will be an answer soon How long can the doctor's illness last? If you can't find a suitable bone marrow match Up to 3 months Three months. Look at us, thinkers. Mommy Mommy Dr. Mommy said that Yueyue can be discharged from the hospital. Mommy, what's wrong with you? Mommy, don't be sad. We will definitely call Dad to save my sister. OK What's up Return to the Meng family within an hour Or I'll burn your mother's relics Meng Anmin Xuanxuan driver uncle is outside You take your sister back to Uncle's house first Mom has something to do Mommy, you must come back safely This is what the man left behind 7 years ago Soon we will know who he is Good mommy will come back safely At that time, Xuan Xuan and Yueyue can see their father Got it! Yeah! Where are my mother's belongings? I burned your mother's things long ago What's the relic? You lied to me, what are you trying to do? take Ahhh Unfamiliar white-eyed wolf Yaoyao wants to marry into the country Dare to stand in his way Only a dead end Mao Anming, this bastard He actually sold his own daughter I can't die. Yueyue and Xuan Xuan are still waiting for me to go back Who can help me? The place where Meng Xin was sold You will never come back. Aunt Meng Xin, Mommy? Meng Xin has been sold by me He's never coming back. You lied and returned our Aunt Meng Xin Yueyue don't cry Isn't this the jade pendant brought by Xuan Xuan in the photo? I didn't expect it to be a couple Tangyuan don't come over Jupiter's not coming back anyway So what if he has a jade pendant? Haohao, as long as you tell your father that you like your mother Mom sent Aunt Jupiter back Come Take the young master out The other two didn't ask for my permission Don't let them out Look at dad Why are you the only one Mengxin? Uncle and sister said something today I went to the hospital alone. He hasn't come back yet. Xuan Xuan and Yueyue were still sent back by the driver? That's how she takes care of her children Uncle Haohao Or I'll take care of it myself After all, how can Yuyong have a caring mother? Besides, Haohao still likes me a lot recently Right, ho ho? Dad? Don't let mom go Since I accept you well Then you stay Uncle, come to my room tonight Oops, Xuan Xuan and Yueyue's room is on fire Go and call the family doctor Uncle, can you save me? What's up? What's wrong? What happened to him? Master Bo, don't listen to this little girl's nonsense You bad woman You sold my mom? Can dad save some aunts? So what's going on? Uncle is childlike Mengxin, she is my sister How could I possibly sell her? Besides, I don't have the ability yet As long as you have Mommy's address. I can save her But the bad woman refused to say Where is he? I don't know. I really don't know. Somebody cut off his palm for me Drive out of the country Buddha, I remember Moxie Moxie He went to the Meng family He's going to be sold by my dad to Jin'an Buddha is not me He's my dad. Lock him up for me Tell Mengman If anything happens to Meng Xing I must have them buried with the Meng family Meng Xing's location has not been found yet Uncle will act tonight to find out What do I want you to do? Zhang Ze replaced these people for me uncle They can be found so far. The best hacker ever Bad uncle, your people are so useless This is the web cracking. It's incredibly difficult. Children don't understand, don't talk nonsense Uncle, my brother is also a hacker. Take these two kids out of here No, I want to save mommy too Uncle, if you can find the Great Demon King Maybe hack the system Yes, the Great Demon King is the top one in the world Except him. I'm afraid no one will be able to announce it anytime soon. This website. Contact the Great Demon King with my account. As long as he can find Dream Star According to the previous agreement Return these two children to uncle My brother is the devil All right, you two, stop making trouble I'm also helping you find your mother. At your speed I can't find my mommy in the next life Uncle, please let me come Kid, stop messing around. Mimi How is that possible? kid Who taught you that? I can't understand the operation of a child This is the original cracking method created by the Great Demon King I researched for years and couldn't How did you learn it, kid? Are you really my brother? It's really the devil If Mo Xuanxuan could really see the Demon King Then he asked to say that the star was his mommy Found mommy It's auction information. Can you find the exact location? Got it. Zhang Ze summons manpower Go now yes Yueyue and I are going too I can always check the latest situation of Mommy. Yueyue is a talented little doctor But it can heal mommy's wounds set off Wow, the auction starts on the 21st. 100,000 start I 100,000 I 200,000 I 300,000 Oops, they're auctioning live. Mommy 1 million Uncle, what should we do? Million to 110 million One hundred and ten million. One hundred million at a time. twice the price Dear Guest Tell me what part of him you want. We'll handle it for you. Hey why don't you run Get him! kill Ahhh fire fighting Who are you? What about Brother Bao? Brother Bao Don't be afraid, we'll escape together Don't make trouble Get him! Give me a hand Ah! Uh-huh. Dare to run brothers How does this woman want to play? Old rules Buddies, cool first Then live stream broken hands and feet Come on, man Leave it alone hahaha Thanks. Yueyue Mom, I'm sorry. You stop Who the hell How did you get in? Give it to Lao Tzu I asked you to check me out. Mom? Don't come over. I tell you not to come You come here Stop right there You put my stuff down You put it here What's there to say? Stop Wang Yuting Are you all right? Mommy is so handsome Uncle is also handsome As soon as I hear you, you bastard How did you bring them, Mommy? Oh, why are you here alone? What about your caretaker? Are your two children not human? property If you come a little later I'm back on the map Hurry up and arrest these people for me Be careful! Messi Be careful! Uh-huh. Cold heart cold heart Cold heart cold heart Chairperson Mommy Mommy I am aunt I thought you were dead Oh, Haohao, don't cry Isn't Auntie well? Okay, go out and take your brother and sister out for a walk Why stand in my way? The situation was critical, and I didn't expect it. Besides, didn't you save me too? Mengqi Do you like me? What nonsense are you talking about? You are Mengyao's kiss I don't like other people's boys I Am Myself Not his man He teamed up with Meng Anmin to do that kind of unconscionable thing I will never let him enter our country I will break off the engagement with him Why are you telling me this? What does it matter to me who you marry? Buddha Prince, why are you here? It's hard for you that I'm not dead Look what you kid says Why didn't Wang Ye Yaoyao come? Yaoyao Uncle, what's going on? I'm here today to marry Mengyao no no no Yaoyao is your fiancee Uncle, I am Haohao's mother You can't do this to me. Enough Haohao doesn't have a femme fatale mother like you Mo Anmian My mother's belongings What relic? I don't understand what you're saying. Don't take out what Then I'll have someone set you on fire You three don't deserve to live in my mother's house Meng Xin, what are you doing? Are you crazy? Meng Xin, do you still have a conscience? If you burn down the house Where do my parents live? I told you. It was my mom's. You three are nothing more than parasites Bo Ye is also your son after all I say Grandpa, can't you see the Wenmeng family suffer? ignition No no no no no no Can't I give it to me? Can't I give it to me, housekeeper? This is what your mother left behind But I haven't planned for all these years I don't know what's inside. Zhang Ze handed Meng Anming over to the police and notified him I broke off my engagement with Mengyao From then on, the two have no relationship at all Buddha, please forgive me. Buddha Yaoyao Help dad Buddha, I am Hao Hao's mother You can't do this to me! Don't think I don't know how many times you abused Ho Ho Inhumane women like you She doesn't deserve to be her mother at all Yaoyao haha I will find Haohao another mother uncle Back then, Yaoyao gave birth to Hao Hao prematurely The child was born and disappeared in the fire So many years He never goes a day without worrying about his children You have taken the child once Do you want to take it away a second time? Huo Mengyao is also a child born in the fire Bo Yiting Haohao is innocent Have you forgotten how they hurt you? If I hadn't come to die, it would have been you I didn't send you to prison It's already on Haohao's face If you dare to push an inch Don't blame me for turning my back Uncle, my father did all this I know that no matter what I say now You won't believe me But You see behind me I almost lost my life Let me see you again Go back to the country to pack up Then I don't want to see it again How are things going for the design competition? It's all set. This race of the century is over You can find out who is powerful in the company Go and check the fire from a thousand years ago And take a look at Mengyao's body Is there a side to the state? Me too, you are skeptical Miss Mengyao is not the biological mother of the young master prepare Isn't this the jade pendant brought by Meng Xuanxuan in the photo? I didn't expect it to be a couple And so it was. That year, Bo Yuting gave Meng Xin a jade pendant That jade pendant and Bo Tianhao's are a pair. If he is really Ho Ho's mother There are some things I can't do too well After all, I was the one who let him down If he hadn't dared to lie to me He will end up like Meng Anmin As long as I use him as a flip cup Can bite me to death It's Ho Ho's biological mother Mommy You forced me So good that I didn't play on the computer today Bo Tianxiang is not the biological father of the children Is it his father's uncle? a feud After all, it can't be my grandfather What happened to my grandpa? Who let you in? This is my room. This is my home. Are you crazy? If Xuanxuan sees him like Haohao When you sleep, lightning doesn't move. Just like some lifestyle habits sometimes All the same Those who didn't know thought they were brothers Brother, is he the biological father of the children? Brother is it child Is he our biological father? How is that possible? Wang Yiting, let me ask you Mommy I'm back! go out Don't worry, I will dissolve the marriage with Mu Yao. uncle Good night Good night Mommy I stayed at the uncle's house Just to cure Yueyue's leukemia Wait for the month to recover I'll take the kids away I won't have anything to do with the uncle's family anymore This biography of dissolving the engagement with Meng Jia Doctor's share price plummets The company's reputation is greatly affected I hope Mr. Bo will consider the company Restore the engagement with Miss Meng Yao Meng Jia knows the law and breaks the law disorderly behavior Forced marriage will damage the doctor's life Besides, my marriage is my own private matter When is it the shareholders' turn to call the shots? If you keep worrying like this We have to divest. divest from us Divestment, my Bo Yuting is never threatened by anyone Feel free to Put the news down Wait until you find the jade pendant After confirming whether Mengyao is a good mother I will hold a press conference It is said that the marriage contract with Meng Jia ended These bitches who see the wind Wait for me. Wait for me to marry If you don't marry, you will have good fruit to eat. Brother Hao, where is your mother going? He's not my mommy. He is a bad woman It has been kicked out by Dad. Tianhao, you little beast who eats inside and out You are not allowed to bully Brother Hao Yueyue Yueyue's sister is here Yueyue does not cry Mommy is here Mengyao, you are bullying my child again. Mengxin, I have been reduced to this point today It's all your fault Wait for me. Wait until I get back with my uncle Beat you and your little bitch to death Let go You little bitch Let me go Put it away. Put it away. Mommy Mommy Wake up No no Dad is a bad woman Push down happy aunt's Buddha is not like that You listen to me explain get out of the way What happened today was an accident It's Hao Hao who didn't stand firm Demon Lord, hug him That's why I'm standing on the stairs You are still lying to me. Haohao said it was you who pinched him first Pushed Yueyue again And tried to push him up the stairs It was Mengxin who saved him when she appeared That's why Mengxin got hurt Me too. Ho Ho is my biological son How could I do that to him? Stop saying that you are Hao Hao I'll send someone to find out 7 years ago A man and a woman left the hotel before the fire That woman looks exactly like you Uncle, you misunderstood. I was born in a fire, Haohao I haven't been in good health for so many years Ho Ho is my biological son How could I do this to him? Are you really Ho Ho's mother? Buddha, what are you talking about? Did he find out something? Impossible to effectively monitor that year It's all been destroyed by us. Drag him away from me Without my permission Not allowed to enter the country half a step humph This is indeed the jade pendant of the country Why do you have this jade pendant? The man gave it to me seven years ago that night I know this is an important token So I've been keeping it safe Wei Yan, is it you every night? Kiyoko The appraisal and jade pendant can prove that the woman is a friend It seems that I am superfluous Buddha, I know my sister doesn't like me He ran away with a wild man He was afraid that I would tell his father So a fire wants to burn me to death Thanks to my life That's why the eldest prince was born well I'll look into what happened seven years ago Without my permission Don't mention it again It's uncle Hao Hao is by your side now Better than following me with a mother who has nothing As long as he can grow up healthy I don't worry. Uncle, then I'll go first Dr. Wei Yaozhou Mommy, are you alright? Yueyue rest assured Mommy is much better It was the bad uncle who sent Mommy to the hospital As soon as I hear people My dad was giving that a lesson. Bad Woman Aunt Mengxi Wait for that bad woman to leave Can you be my mommy? This is my mommy. Xuanxuan, where is your jade pendant? Meng Xuanxuan's mommy asks you Where is your jade pendant? Mommy, I'm sorry. I lost my jade pendant Where did it go? Mommy, you were taken away by bad guys Brother to save you The jade pendant is missing. Forget it, lose it, lose it No jade pendant We can find Dad too Dad dreams aunt I also have jade pendants. Leave it at home Dad gave it to me. That jade pendant is beautiful. Go home and show you OK Uncle's stock is still falling There's a quadrennial design competition coming up. The shareholders still propose that you and Meng Jia resume their engagement Calm down public opinion Notify There are still people at this juncture Continue to bring up the matter of resuming engagement with Meng Jia Just get out of here Uncle's situation has changed I have a personal problem with dissolving the engagement with my uncle Online rumors that uncle cheated Women are lies Miss Shepherd chose to clarify at this time Looks like I want to help you The reputation of my doctor It doesn't take a woman to maintain Let Mengyao withdraw the message. Yes Post my engagement with Mengyao on this official website And withdraw what? uncle Are you going to forgive Miss Mengyao? There is currently no evidence to prove Who started the fire 7 years ago? Mengyao is Haohao's mother after all It's also because I'm physically damaged and unable to have children. This still can't be done for too long But what about Miss Wang? Aren't you dead? Hello, Mom. I do as you say Sure enough, he won't resume his engagement with me That would be fine. But you still have to guard against that bitch Mengxin Don't worry, mom. Mengxin can't fight me now Throw me all those bad things yeah What are you doing? This is my mom's stuff You are not allowed to take Little bitch, this is my home Get the hell out of here with your mother Go away go away don't go down MengXin Hurry up and take your two young masters and get out of here for me Meng Xin Take your two little bastards and get out of here Apologize to Sun Sun and Yueyue The two of them also match How dare you hit me? Sister, it's my fault. I accidentally hit Yueyue Who are you pretending to be here for? Get up now! What are you doing? prince Is there anything you can't say well? Why do you have to do it? It's him. Oye The announcement that the Peng Peng family resumed their engagement has come out Current model stocks have rebounded OK Here is your luggage. You are leaving Right After all, uncle is about to marry a cow I'm afraid it's not appropriate for me to stay in Bozi anymore Uncle and sister are right We got married. No matter what identity he lives in our house in the future Will be criticized by others Xuan Xuan Liyuan Grab your things and go with mom Bullet hasn't agreed to work with the doctor yet You can go. But the child must stay Boyting, sometimes I really regret it If I hadn't saved you in the first place Is there no way to take my child away? month month month month Tuanzi is sent to the hospital quickly, it is Yueyue Yueyue If Miss Meng can't find Yueyue's father again Match him for a bone marrow transplant I'm afraid how long is Yueyue? Two months Why can't Yueyue's father find that man? I don't even know what he looks like. that year He left a token and disappeared So many years of ignoring children Token what token Uncle and sister, everything has been packed. If he doesn't want to stay at the uncle's house Then it's not good for us to be better than him. Yueyue's illness can no longer be delayed My family still has Uncle Yicheng and Uncle who haven't done it yet Ding Lei, I have to stay at the Bo family for a while longer Xuan Xuan It's about the Hacker Demon King, you already know He and I both know stars As long as you help me find the child's biological father I can make the star and the doctor couple How could he possibly know the stars? I promise I'll help you find him uncle Haohao only recognizes him now If you dare to say one more word Go back to the Meng family by yourself Mengxi, let's see Yueyue, wait for mom Mom will definitely find Dad to cure you Why is he here? Mr. Bo, this is the meeting materials you want. Okay, thanks. I'm going to get Game City's hair for DNA today. Unrelated people please go out I don't understand this one. Let me tell you. Our designers here Uh, just get both sides through The whole space will be bigger Hey. What happened to Yiting? Guo Yiting, what are you crazy about? Seduce me right under my nose Big brother, her children are so old You can do it too What nonsense are you talking about? Do you think everyone is like Mengyao? I make you sick like that. It's me too, don't forget what you promised me. Don't forget that your fiancee is Mengyao Mommy Yueyue is much better It doesn't hurt at all Yueyue Mommy will find your dad soon Wait until he donates bone marrow to our Yueyue Yueyue's illness will get better soon What's the doctor's test result? This man has no blood relationship with Yue Yue How could this be? Miss Meng will die if she delays any longer The father of the children is not Bo Tianxiang Not Boyi City My grandfather's age is even less likely That's true. wake up I warned you before not to take pictures of my son I didn't expect you to hide his picture What? Your son? This is my son Xuan Xuan and daughter Yue Yue No wonder Auntie, you are freezing Never let Bo Yuting know, sir That's his baby. No. He will definitely take my baby Yueyue Mom found a way to save you I heard that Mr. Bo is getting married soon Congratulations, congratulations. Mr. Bo is not home at this time Are you not afraid of a commotion at home? Ha ha. Who was the man before waking up from the dream? I make you sick like that. It's me too, don't forget what you promised me. Don't forget that your fiancee is Mengyao Jupiter? Why is he here? Little beauty Let's play together Go away Still a strong temper Go with brother, brother will take you to dream presumptuous Who the hell is nosy? You wait for me. Moxie Moxie Hey. Mengqing, do you know who I am? Wu Yiting Let's have a baby What you Bo Yuting I want to be pregnant with your child and make jade jade Rongxin, I will be responsible for you. What happened last night was an accident Buddha is not responsible for me What do you mean? Last night? I drank too much yesterday. Said a lot of nonsense I even dreamed of my ex-husband I don't worry either. I won't tell Mengyao what happened last night I won't use this to blackmail you into marrying me You can still marry Mengyao Mengqi Mengxi Miss Meng, this is hospital medicine. Are you sure you want to regenerate? One month. Maybe can't wait. I can't let my child's father know they exist The secret that I might lose my respect for forever Besides, sentencing may not be successful Doctor Please try to buy me as much time as possible Miss Mo, I see. Mommy Babies, mom has something she wants to tell you Your daddy found it Why are you here? These are the world's leading hematologists. I asked them to join the medical clinic for Yueyue to see Thank you uncle Yueyue first asks the doctor uncle to check for you. Yeah, OK. Oh, thank you kindly. You just said Yue. Yue's father is looking for him He died. What about Yueyue when she died? Don't worry. The two people I'm looking for are top hematologists I will also continue to contact Chinese Osteopathic Department I will definitely help Yueyue find the right bone marrow As long as you actively cooperate with the treatment In the absence of the right bone marrow It can last for about a year. That's fine. As long as I get pregnant with Bo Yiting's child as soon as possible You can use the baby's umbilical cord blood to save Yueyue Miss Meng I just forgot to mention it. During hospitalization Doctor, I have something to do I'll contact you again. The doctor just said that Yueyue can be discharged from the hospital. Let's go home. Don't worry, Luo always asks you to come to his office OK Lend me your son What do you have to do? The company has a program that requires him How about I offer him $10 million a year? No one else in the company You dare to use a bronze drum Working three hours a day is a breeze for him It won't affect his studies It doesn't matter how much you drive. Although it is my son It's not yours. I just like his computer talent I'm not robbing you of my son What are you nervous about? What are you doing? Go away Smile Buddha, I am your fiancee This is my office. Without my permission in the future Not allowed in go out Mu Xian, I will definitely kick you out of the company. Hey, see you tonight. And that's a small number. As long as you listen to me in this design competition Wait for Meng Xin to leave the company I can give you more Miss Meng, don't worry. Who are you? I am Miss Meng who married the country Can you afford it? Mengyao Stay safe Little brother He is you I'm engaged to Boytine We have no fate Don't come to me again You bitch You almost got me killed Got me in bed for months Brother Song It's not that I'm the devil bitch Knowing that Mengxin is Boyting's person And let me fix him Are you using me as a gun? Not Wei Ting's fiancee It's me Mu Ting He's just a mistress, who cares? I take care of you The sisters Who's the kid? You almost crippled me And you know what? I'm uncle's man You need to know I won't let you go. I have been observing my uncle for several months Are you dead or alive? He doesn't give a damn about you. Even if The woman who wants to play Zhuo Yiting Yaoyao finally woke up Oops, did you scare mom? I was awakened Yaoyao doesn't cry Mom asked you? Is the child in your belly Peng Yiting's? I'm pregnant. How could this be? Is it to go to the bar for this? Bai Yiting never touched me at all Just because you love to play I just provoked that bastard Song Xiao But the baby is gone You take good care of it If Bai Yiting comes to see you You mustn't let it slip. Mom, I must let Song Xiao and Mengxin Pay the price with me Isn't this Meng Xin's daughter bathing? It's a no-brainer. Okay, you made my daughter so miserable I want your daughter to die Kill you you a What are you doing? Mayfair doesn't cry Mom is here Xu Wanxiao, you actually want to suffocate my daughter to death I was just passing by to see her What evidence do you have? I saw you put a pillow on her face with my own eyes You still don't admit it What happened to Mengqin? Mengqin, you are finally here I was about to be strangled by him. So what's going on? He pressed a pillow against Yue Yue's face I want to suffocate Yueyue I am Yueyue's grandmother How could I do such a thing to him? Okay, you still don't admit it, do you? Call the police now Didn't Yaoyao tell you to rest well now? Why did you come out? What are you? What do you think, it's all Meng Xin's ex-husband? Come to Meng's house to find Meng Xin If you can't find it Take Yaoyao out of anger In order to protect his sister's whereabouts, Yaoyao Wounded by the man he brought Song Xiao is not my master He is Mengyao's adulterer Sister, it was you who eloped with Brother Song Xiao How could you wrong me? What white lotus are you wearing here? If you hadn't been angry with Song Xiao back then, oops Yaoyao Zhang Yusheng Don't scare mom, what's the matter? Yueyue is fine Mommy will protect you. Hmm. The quadrennial design conference has officially begun Please enter the competition Mengxi, I will make you fail Ask the contestants to present their work How come? Ok you Meng Xing I consider you a friend You actually plagiarized my work You actually plagiarized my work Game suspended How can you two have the exact same work? Meng Xin copied me I copied you. I consider you a friend I will teach you to design Show you my manuscript I thought I made a good friend Unexpectedly, the story of the farmer and the snake is repeated I graduated from a prestigious foreign university The wild road you never went to college Not even a designer How could it be possible to design such a beautiful work? Works of this degree Only an overseas student like Wang Li can handle it By the way, Meng Xin goes to work every day to fish Running faster than anyone else after get off work It's Wang Li Always stay up late to catch up on design Who plagiarizes who at a glance I'm leaving after get off work That's because I'm still working as a technician at Bojia Although this work is very general But Wang Li definitely can't do it Meng Xin, others may not know But you and I still know You didn't study design at all in college After graduating from college, he eloped with a wild man So many years of doing nothing It's such a great piece of work, you can't design it at all How can you prove it? Ming, this is yourself I have design manuscripts Where's my manuscript? Mr. Bo, this is my design manuscript Mengxin Wang Li's design is exactly the same as his work You can't even get anything out This only proves that you are copying him My mom didn't plagiarize Honey, why are you here? Bad uncle, you can't even protect my mommy It's useless I asked you to check, how is the monitoring? Uncle, we and the boss Checked all the company's surveillance Finally found the evidence Miss Mengyao clearly said that the surveillance has been deleted Uncle Xuanxuan is still a child May check monitoring Our boss checked the monitoring, which is overqualified. You are not allowed to question our boss Then look at the screen It turned out that Wang Li stole the magic handcuffs So this work is really a magic handcuff Mr. Guo This video is a composite. Guess you'll quibble Change the next video I have already put the rest of the money on your card. Don't do me any harm. As long as you can drive away the dream You will be good in the future Uncle Fan, you just need to check 6 million he has on his card We'll know if he plagiarized it I fired Wang Li Industry-wide ban I'd love to know Who ordered Wang Li to do this? Wang Li, do you know The person who framed my sister before He has been expelled from the imperial capital If you are expelled from the imperial capital What should your family do? No one Mengxi It's me. I hate you, I graduated from a famous school of design You are a third-rate wild way, why are you competing with me? Even if I copy you Didn't you copy someone else's? I didn't plagiarize. Everyone sees The design style of this work Does it look like a famous domestic jewelry designer star? work I copied you But you're even more shameless Plagiarizing the work of stars Take a closer look. Really like Even the design ideas are similar Stars are the ceiling of our design field This Dream Star is too shameless Really no one can see it I just told you. I didn't plagiarize. We all do design. All imitated and studied the masterpieces of the stars Who can't see that you are plagiarizing? Moral corruption like yours Woman full of lies You have to get out of design. Mengxin, the last person who copied a lot Has been blocked by the entire industry You made this scene at the Ph.D.'s design competition Do you want the whole doctor to suffer with you? Shut up uncle Our company insiders plagiarized Sida's work If Meng Xin is not fired How could Steve still be willing to cooperate with us? Doctor, when is it your turn to have the final say? Uncle, you have always rewarded and punished clearly Why cover up Meng Xin? Is it as rumored? You obviously have the fiancee of Miss Mengyao Still with his sister Meng Xin shut up It doesn't matter what I do, Fifth Master But don't let Jupiter affect the Doctor It was criticized by the whole industry. And they were right. This work is indeed the design style of the star You really admitted that you copied stars Cause I'm a star Meng Xin, are you crazy? Stars are internationally renowned designers Unreachable Character You not only plagiarize, but also want to impersonate Meng Xin is not your name for the star This kind of plagiarism dog should be caught by the police Meng Xin, things have happened so far The design competition was also delayed If you don't want to go to the police station, bow your head and admit your mistake as soon as possible Really? What are you doing? Meng Xin is at this time You still want to seduce Mr. Bo Wait, Star seems to have sent Weibo. Stars in the World Series Isn't this the photo of Meng Xin and Mr. Bo just now? So? Meng Xin is global Famous jewelry designer star Then I just How could this be? It's really you? Bad Uncle I didn't lie to you, did I? My mother is a star Wang Li, you are for your own selfish desires Want to ruin someone else's future You have to be worthy of designing me Mr. Luo, I came to your company for research. So far. As for cooperation I'll have to think again. Zhang Zhi Fire all those who sowed discord just now should Mom didn't expect This time not only did not drive away the dream And let him announce it on the spot He is the world-famous jewelry designer Stark Why is he taking all the work? What's the use of crying So far You only get married to Bo one day I don't sleep too much at night But Bo Yuting only has that little bastard Bo Tianhao in her heart Because he admitted to me I can enter the door of my uncle's house If the uncle family didn't have that little bastard What do you mean? You download this. The meal of the Huotian is 3 grams a day. This is contaminated protein powder. It blew up. Give it to me. Can you leave two days later? Boyting, I have signed a contract with the doctor As agreed I can take Xuan Xuan and Yueyue away I know I mean ho ho He is sick. He's clamoring for you to bring Can you stay and take care of him more? Ho Ho is sick Why didn't you tell me earlier? A little fever Wei Yiting, let's take Haohao to the hospital Dad, I don't want Meng Xia to go either I like him. If you want to keep him Then you have to listen to your dad OK See this hot water bottle? After a while you lie down and apply it to your head Hide it when Aunt Dream arrives OK Uh, Haohao should be fine You should just take care of him a little bit. Bai Yiting, what did you say as a father? Ha ha. Ah! I suddenly remembered that there is something else going on in the company I'll go first Haohao, leave it to you to take care of? Hey Bai Yiting What are you doing here? Ho Ho is sick I'm worried about him. I made him some soup You can give it to Mo Qing. He will take care of This is my son get out of the way Haohao, this is the soup made by my mother herself Mom feed you No, no. Children are not allowed to be picky eaters and drinkers how Hao doesn't want to drink Don't push him This is my son. Can you handle it? How can you be a mother? I sometimes wonder if you are Haohao Haohao, let's go to the hospital Hmm dream I didn't want to go to the hospital. I feel like sleeping. Ok ok ok Let's get some sleep then. Will it not work if the little heroine just takes a sip? But it's okay Long to come Master Wu, Yiting and Yaoyao have been engaged for so long This wedding should be on the agenda, right? Are you married to Meng Jia? get married Are you Meng Jiapai? uncle The uncle family is a big family with a head and face in the imperial capital Our Meng family is a little bad But Yaoyao gave Yiting Haohao They are in love Should have gotten married This marriage thing? It can be fixed or refunded. You can't return it. How about this? Yaoyao is also Haohao's mother Haohao is so small Can't live without mom Meng Yao's mind is not right Haohao, having such a mother will bring her down I know what your mother and daughter are thinking Don't worry, after returning the marriage? I will compensate the Meng family. In the future, don't think about the relationship between the Panbo family anymore Master He Master He, you are here Feng Xi You are shameless You have a sister with a little bastard Live in your own girl's house Do you want your daughter to grow up Is it as dirty as you? Keep your mouth clean One more girl and I'll hurt you What are you? How dare you be in my son-in-law's house Pose like a hostess I'm pissed off. Oh my god, I still have this. Arrogance is dead See how arrogant you are Drinking can't kill you Mengyao, what are you doing? What can I do? I saw Ho-ho sleep all day Didn't eat anything Let my aunt do it for him I don't know how you manage your children I always abuse my son Why did you suddenly become so kind? Haohao Haohao No fever Why haven't you woken up after sleeping all day? What's wrong with Sister Mo? Bo Yuting, come over here Ho-ho slept all day Let this kid pretend not to pretend for a while Hao Hao Hao Hao Baby I'm so sleepy Ho Ho, what's going on? The family doctor visited today Said it was okay But I always feel something is wrong By the way, Mengyao has been very concerned about Haohao recently. I make soup for Haohao every night He came in a few hours ago to feed Ho-ho soup Where is he now? This time should be in the kitchen Annie, what do you put in the soup? Is it seasoning? Yueyue is so smart Auntie put the seasoning Why is it different from the seasoning my mommy put in? Auntie put the seasoning yam water What nonsense are children talking about? Oh, I see. Brother Hao is sick Love to put medicine into the soup Let Brother Hao eat That's right. This way, taking medicine will not be painful. I'm going to tell Mommy too I want to take medicine like this Don't tell your mommy when you come back. Do you hear me? Go on, go on. You heard it. Answer me quickly what you said Moon yueyue Mengyao, what are you doing? That's not true. Buddha is Yueyue and she bites me Yueyue is usually so obedient How could it bite me for no reason? It was Auntie who said you couldn't tell Mommy she was playing a song Peeing in the karaoke hall What nonsense Mengyao If you don't give me a reasonable explanation today I will destroy you Buddha, it's just an ordinary protein powder. I really don't have counterfeit drugs. You have to believe me. Shut up! If anything happens to Haohao I must make your life worse than death I am my son. How could I possibly harm him? You and that little general deliberately framed me From the moment you move into the country You are abusing the vastness. He even threatened him with Yue Yue and Xuan Xuan's life Tell him not to tell Bo Yiting This is also my wrong to you. And it's true. Luo's preliminary judgment on the injected protein The powder contains excessive heavy metals and nuclear elements Mengyao, are you crazy? Haohao is your own son How can you do it? Wei, you have to believe me. It's just that I can't make them love me so much Really don't know I was also deceived Did I ever tell you? Don't touch my son Do you really think I dare not kill you? Do you really think I dare not kill you? Mei Ting, pinch her again She really might die Women don't deserve to be alive What can you think about? Come Get him out of the country Take it to the police station No, the queen is still so young He can't leave me. Meng Xin is more suitable than you to be Haohao's mother No I know wrong Please let me go I am your fiancee The Buddhist family and the Meng family have completely annulled their marriage Bo Yiting It's just some bacterial poison Luo Tianhao, that little bastard, is not dead Why are you being so mean to me? What did you say little wild Yes, Ono. Hu Tianhao is not my son at all You are a slut Wu Tianhao is not my son at all You are a bitch Me too, I can have children too Can I not have that little bastard? Can you say that again? You are not Ho Ho's biological mother Immediately take him and Haohao to do a paternity test What are you doing to take away? Wei Yao, if you kill me You'll never know. Who is the mother of this elementary school student? You know his biological mother Right. Say Mom is me hahaha Don't say anything I have a way to make you say Take her down to me Do whatever it takes to escape Haohao's biological mother Niteen, I can also give birth to your child We can leave that little beast alone Nini Niting Ho Ho's mother Where the hell are you? Haohao has been talking in his sleep just now that he is looking for his father You accompany Haohao well I'm going to get him medicine I'm sorry Mengyao lied to me. He is not Haohao's mother But I've been hurting you many times as my fiancee It's my fault Mengyao is not Haohao's mother No wonder he treats Haohao so badly That Haohao's mother is He wouldn't say. But can I find Haohao's mother in the future? I will never let anyone hurt you again Bai Yiting, you Mengxi Will you marry me? I want you to be a good mother Should I tell him? Yueyue and Sun Sun are actually his children Okay, dad and Mu Xiaoyu are finally together I'm going to have a mommy But you're not sick yet, lie down Mengqin, will you marry me? Yueyue urgently needs a bone marrow transplant But their dad I know you told me that his father was dead Well, actually their father is property The degree of various indicators of the little young master has decreased It will take some time to recover. But nothing serious Miss Yueyue After all, it is relatively stable But you still need to find a suitable job as soon as possible Don't worry. The best doctors in the world are already treating Yue Yue I will never let anything happen to her. Aunt Mengxi Will you marry my father? What's wrong with you? Is it uncomfortable? It feels so comfortable Am I pregnant? Zhang Ze, call a doctor Yeah no No, I just got a little dizzy all of a sudden. Just take a break. You accompany Haohao well first I went out beforehand Miss Mengxi, what's the matter? Dad Mengxi Aunt Are you shy? Notify Dissolve the marriage between the Meng family and the uncle family Meng Yao is no longer my fiancee It's Miss Meng I'm really pregnant. I'm really pregnant. Yueyue is saved Have you thought about what to tell the father? Doctor Please keep my pregnancy a secret for me first I want to wait for the right moment Tell the child's father about it again Mommy is pregnant I'm about to have a little brother or sister What the hell are you doing? This is my home. Get out of here The house has been seized You move out quickly Why did you seize my house? You offended the doctor That's impossible. My daughter Yaoyao is the fiancee of the Expo Park He couldn't have done such a thing. Go away I have broken off the engagement with your daughter Muyao The house was left to Miss Moxie by her mother You won't live here Take her out What are you doing? You wait for me. When my daughter marries into the uncle's family I want you to look good This is Hao Hao's Thank you, Aunt Cat Fairy This is Yueyue. Thanks, Mommy. This one belongs to Xuan Xuan Thanks, Mommy. What about me? Hahaha, the children are all there. You three go out first Mengyao and his parents both received the punishment they deserved I also got your mother's house back for you. When do you plan to finish? Why don't I tell him about the kids today? Guo Yiting, in fact, Boyue's car to the company has already Come and see everyone The state bullies our daughter There is no justice. Look at this. It's treating dog men and women Occupied our house Bullying my daughter Xu Wanxiao, what are you doing? You still have the face to ask me You seduce your brother-in-law Are you shameless? You and you. Wu Yiting, you must give me an explanation today Why are you buying my house? You mother and daughter deceived us Boyue first Also intended to poison us It would be nice if the little master didn't send you a few words How dare you make trouble here? Bah, you are framing Everyone, come and take a look. This is the woman. Robbed his sister's fiance And forced my daughter to kick us out of the house They are a dog man and a woman Are you trying to kill our mother and daughter? What is this? What are you doing? Changze Let go of me! Help! My family is going to kill Yaoyao, ask Yaoyao what's wrong If you dare to speak nonsense again Your daughter hasn't been crazy for so long Zhang Zi sent him to the military department Mengxi You and your dead mother deserve to die He died a miserable death. Hahahaha How are you doing on National Day? Why do you look so bad? I want to go home. I must find Evidence that Meng's woman killed my mother Isn't this your mother's dowry box? Well, mom told me before It's heavy in here. Why can't you open what you want? Let me see. This kind of lock is more complicated. Usually its lock It's on. I'll go out first No. I'd feel better if you were there. OK Let's watch together Just die obediently Don't worry. I will give this USB stick to the police Things that hurt your mother I will definitely make them pay Hami Latest News Meng Anming and Xu Wanxiang travel Intentionally injured Eyes are scratched Aren't you happy? Mommy is not unhappy I just can't put it into words. Babes, if Mommy marries Uncle Bo Do you two agree? Mommy likes it Lili thinks that uncle is not allowed to be a bad person As long as the bad uncle doesn't bully mommy, it's fine Mommy, aren't we looking for Daddy? Yueyue Xuanxuan Your dad is actually relieved aunt tianhao Wait until you marry my dad Sister Yueyue is my sister And this is my sister. Okay, you two are both Yueyue's brothers I'm definitely older than you. I was born on December 9th at 3pm. How about you? Hao Hao is also December 9th at 5pm I report to hand Haohao and Xuan Xuan were born on the same day What a coincidence. Haohao, take Xuan Xuan and Yueyue out first I'll go out and see them first I'm about to become the lady of the country You are still in the police room What's wrong with you, sunglasses? No, actually. Actually I love you Pregnant It was that time I'm going to be a dad Wang Yijiao You put me down Brother, where are we going? Mommy is getting married We're going to buy Mommy a present. What shall we get for Mommy? Let's buy Mommy a diamond ring The biggest and most beautiful kind The bad woman is you Little scumbag You say If I kill you all You bitch cat Do you have to cry to break your heart? Hahaha Bad daughter dad will come to our rescue As long as Mengxin dies Dad will marry me My uncle won't marry you He's going to marry my mom soon What about strangling your mommy? Yueyue Dad? Don't come here or I'll kill him Meng Yao released the children If you want me to keep these three shots, you can also Call Meng Xin over Meng Xin, he won't be today If you have anything to do, don't come with me directly I said I just want Meng Xin If Meng Xin doesn't come today 3 children have to die If Mengxin doesn't come today All three children must die, father I am in pain Haohao, you are the little master of my Bo family Men have tears Absolutely not I want Mengxin's life As long as the dream is happy I will spare your son You can't afford Mengxin's life haohao Sorry dad is late Dad Yueyue is gone Don't worry. Your mother will come to me soon You are a bad woman I'm not yours. My mom? Shut up and blame your mother, that bitch It made me what I am now I let him die Mengyao Where's my daughter? Mengxin, are you very desperate? OK You still have ten minutes, Mengyao What's coming at me? You let Yueyue go It's you who killed me I want you to watch Your daughter died in front of you Mengyao, I'll go there now Don't hurt Yueyue alone If I see you more, I accept it. He will die right in front of you Found the location of Yue Yue and the bad woman You two stay here I'm going to save Yueyue OK Mommy Daddy Ah! I want to die so much fulfill you Huiting Feng Yuting Feng Yuting Let go of me Feng Yuting Don't go Feng Yuting I'll take you to the hospital Feng Yuting Ah Bo Yuting Bo Yiting, you are finally awake I'll call the doctor. What about the children? They are at the uncle's Don't worry, the kids are all right. This is the first time I've seen you cry for me This love is not worth it Actually, there's something I haven't told you What's the matter with you? Xuan Xuan and Yueyue's father are not dead I got him! So what do you want to do now? He has already proposed to me. I plan to marry him with my children Anyway. Yueyue found his father Then his illness will be cured What about our children? You want to leave me? Don't you want him anymore? The child's father said he would marry me Now he's taking a knife for me Lying in a hospital bed The wedding is going to be delayed now You mean Xuan Xuan and Yue Yue are my children? Haohao's mother is you That night seven years ago You are not allowed to come looking for it Ah! Ahhh Work hard, I see the child's head Uh-huh. Ah! Boy, mother and child are safe Great keep it Stacy, I want to be my daughter Good news, although we were unsuccessful with Yueyue Accessories. But Xiaobao's umbilical cord blood can save Yueyue Don't cry. You just had a baby. It's not good for you. OK Next up is our wedding Please advise me for the rest of my life