TARA NARRATING: Previously -Miss Webster, it's Prix de Fonteyn, baby! This is my chance to be I'm showing them who It's the only way I'm gonna TARA (OFFSCREEN): Hey, He's on, like now. -He was in an accident. Sammy died on the [theme song] -Whoa-oh, whoa. Whoa-oh, whoa. Take a breath, close Take a leap of faith and This is my chance. This is my chance. My chance to feel alive. Whoa-oh, whoa. Whoa-oh, whoa. TARA NARRATING: They say the life flashes before your eyes. I hope so much that's true. That you get a photo album know you were here. That you were loved, You must need that second because you don't think-- at least, my friend didn't was going to die. -[singing in hebrew] TARA NARRATING: So that one was all of the time he got. To say goodbye. -What do we do now? -Sorry? -Miss Raine? -We do have dressing rooms. -Sorry. Samuel Lieberman. Lost. -I remember you from -Uh, probably my impressive -I remember not putting final audition week. And yet here you are. You can re-audition for -Yeah, see uh, no I can't. Because I have an IQ of 135. And I go to school where they hate the arts. And I appreciate that that's But you know, if you keep me think I can win you over. -I will need a signature -Thank you, really. -And Mr. Lieberman? Make sure you're worth it. Out of respect, the Prix de to postpone the remaining for a week. And we're canceling our -He wasn't even in it. So what are we even -We are still running classes But it's up to you whether I want you to know this A grief counselor is on teachers are all here-- -I'm not a funeral expert, but sandwiches? I mean, how, how can that to give you closure? -I think today just -Then why don't we A proper Sammy Lieberman ABIGAIL (OFFSCREEN): Shh! -OK, so do you guys have any wanted? -It's no point dragging it on. It's all anyone's done -What? You're bored of the grieving -It's morbid. [phone buzzing] -Ethan, you don't have I promise, I'm fine. I know it hurts, but resist the [laughs] Bye! Hello. Have we met? What you got there? -It's personal. -[laughs] Personal, huh? Oh yeah, I know it SAMMY (OFFSCREEN): My dad's Oh no, no, no! Don't you do it, 'cause you're Thanks. -Hmm, so I'm gagging to bust tunneling in. -But you're not though, I mean, if you really didn't dancing badly. You're self protecting. Most likely fear of failure. -OK, so um, we'll Just stuff like how he saw in his own unique way. Um, Christian? -Sorry, what? -Do you want to write it? -I will. If that's OK with everyone. -Um OK, so the venue is highly perfectly embody who he is. Who he was. -Abigail? How long have you been here? -Just because you canceled have an interest in sacrificing -In that case, Sydney regional tour over Christmas. Rafael's asked to see who didn't get contracts. But I also thought maybe you-- -I'd love to audition. -It is tomorrow, so -So? Tomorrow's perfect. -I want Sammy's laptop. For his music library. -No, that's not gonna happen. All right, I'm packing up Nothing else is leaving Look, Ollie came in here before cardigan. -Oh, actions of a criminal! And you're overruled. -Do you want me to help you pack KAT (OFFSCREEN): You Sammy would still I may not have a clue what he'd but that I do know. [music playing] -Sorry, I'm, I'm not in -I know. But if you don't dance between won't-- -I won't win? I don't care if I come last. I got so caught up in -But it's not about It's about being a dancer. Which means you dance You dance when your You put what you're feeling That's when you'll become you're capable of being. [music playing] -Ten leotards should cover I'm sure they'll have -You're packing already? -What? You don't think I'm better -'Course I do. It's just that you've had Maybe right now you -Sobbing on the bathroom History dictates you should be back in order, Mother. SAMMY (OFFSCREEN): -Just the usual amount I've been dreaming about this -Me too. Just picture it. Sleeping up there. No parents. We'll walk down these stairs -Yeah, it'd be pretty Getting to dance every day. -And we take it for granted. -Hey. Hey, what are you doing? -This is where, it's -Yeah, I know. All right, this is I'm gonna need that -He'd want me to have it. -You want his cardigan! You want his eulogy! You know, I know what -What bit? That he was mediocre? Or that he was a Because it's all running -Give it back to me. -No! -No, I wasn't asking, [knocks] -Hello! Hi. ABIGAIL (OFFSCREEN): Hi. -Thanks for coming in. I imagine it's a -No. No, I'm thrilled to Thank you. Um, I've prepared -Great. [MUSIC-KATE MILLER-HEIDKE, -The guy must have been Don't you reckon? -I don't know. -Sammy wouldn't have walked -I don't know! All right? I wasn't there. He asked me to come. It was the Prix. -You could have changed -Could've pulled him off I could've called an He was always there for me. -So why don't we get started beginning of the piece. Richard, with your arms. And can you now hold -OK. RAFAEL (OFFSCREEN): Great. SAMMY (OFFSCREEN): Hi. -I can do everything So you're just gonna look like you're assisting. OK? Can you stop looking -Like what? -Like you can't wait to get [music playing] [music playing] RAFAEL (OFFSCREEN): Is -Yes. Why would you partner me I'm not prepared for that! I mean, how could I be when I with a crap partner? Everyone wants to talk he was, but he wasn't! He was indescribably terrible! As a pas de deux partner and as a boyfriend! And then he got his And then he kissed me! And then he died! I mean, what sort of [sobbing] -Sweetheart! -No, no, no! -It's all right, -[weeping] -I know, I know. -[weeping] -The only thing that makes friends right now. I know that means I'm MISS RAINE (OFFSCREEN): Tara. -I'm definitely letting The last thing he said was And I tried. But I can't put what I'm feeling -I'll pull you out of -Thanks. KAT (OFFSCREEN): None Maybe we can't make The funeral didn't, and neither Even if we knew what -He told me. An energy drink incident. He thought he was going -[laughs] -It's pretty simple. CHRISTIAN (OFFSCREEN): Ready? -Wait. I wasn't fine. ETHAN (OFFSCREEN): I know. -OK, um, how do you sum up -Wow, what do you call that? That's definitely going I have this list of 50 things Yeah. Getting into the Academy's Um, I have to go, but we should You know, wait for our -Why would we do that? -Well I, I don't know your don't have friends. I have acquaintances But here there's a -So? -You know, if we get in, maybe -You and me? We'll never be mates. -Fair enough. Well uh, we'll see you. CHRISTIAN (OFFSCREEN): The best his own words. So um, this is a list he wrote Number 50, disprove the validity [laughter] -49, lobby to make ballet He asked me to help [laughs] 21, get a tattoo. [laughs] -20, dance on top of Four, stand up to my dad. Number three, fall in love over from my head. Number two, get into the [crying] Number one, make a group of of my life. Um, he didn't complete all But he definitely did -And now it's time for [MUSIC-MUSIX, &quot;SHOULDA, -[laughs] -[laughs] -Wow, that's just-- -It definitely was [laughs] -It was played 368 times! [laughs] OK, we're skipping to [MUSIC-WHITLEY, &quot;MORE -Up. We're dancing. [laughing] -I haven't cried since I don't know what's -Trust me. It'll happen. Come on. TARA NARRATING: I don't know that my friend is gone. I want to kick and scream I'd give anything for this awful And more than anything, I don't So I won't. I'll just say thank you [MUSIC-WHITLEY, &quot;MORE TARA NARRATING: There's no you'll remember forever. [MUSIC-WHITLEY, &quot;MORE