Every year some countries move their clocks in the autumn. participate in this odd clock fiddling - it the reason behind it? was to give people more sunlight in the summer. a clock doesn't actually make more sunlight But, by moving the clocks forward an hour, sun will seem to both rise and set later. is called Daylight Saving Time and the rest This switch effectively gives people more weather after work. Hudson, in particular, time adding to his insect collection. presumably because people won't want to But, winter doesn't have this affect on If you live in a tropical place like Hawaii, because they pretty much don't happen. so christmas is just as good of a day to hit of two states in the Union that ignore daylight But, the further you travel from the equator themselves and you get colder and darker winters, locals. So it's no surprise that the further it uses daylight saving time. 1895 - but it wasn't well received and country to put it into practice. less concerned with catching butterflies on saving coal to feed the war machine. conserve energy. The reasoning goes that it summer and thus use less artificial lighting. back in the more regimented society of a hundred world? question to answer. AIR CONDITIONING. The magic box of cool that the world quite tolerable places to live. cheap and turning on one air conditioner is bulbs. it to go outside then Daylight Saving Time it. Phoenix: where the average summer high is If you suggest to an Arizonian to change their they laugh in your face. More sun and higher is why Arizona is the second state that never Another problem when trying to study daylight and electrical use. better more electricity is dedicated to things And the lure of a hot, sweaty, mosquito-filled entertainments and climate-controlled comfort Also the horrifically energy in-efficient for a century are giving way to CFLs and LEDs required to light a room. probably less effective with every with every The bottom line is while some studies say it saves electricity, the one thing they agree 1% or less, which, in the United States, works $4 saved or spent on electricity over an entire So the question now becomes is the hassle it? depravation - an already common problem worse. see that people are less productive the week associated costs. away that hour of sleep on a Monday morning. and suicides and the Daylight Saving Time Other troubles come from scheduling meetings Let's say that your trying to plan a three-way - not an easy thing to do under the best when they don't agree on when daylight saving In the spring, Sydney is 11 hours ahead of But then New York is the first to enter Daylight hour. Two weeks later London does the same. side of the world, leaves daylight saving So in the space of three weeks New York is and then five hours again. And Sydney is either 15 or 14 hours from New York. reverse six months later. mattered so much but in the modern, interconnected 1,000s and 1,000s of times daily - shifting netizens any favors. even consistent about daylight saving time Brazil has daylight saving time, but only but not Saskatchewan. Most of Oz does DST, or Queensland. DST, unless you live in Puerto Rico, the Virgin Marianas Islands or, as mentioned before Hawaii But Arizona isn't even consistent within While Arizona ignores DST, the Navaho Nation Inside of the Navaho Nation is the Hopi Reservation time. is another part of the Navaho Nation which And finally there is also part of the Hopi which doesn't. would technically necessitate seven clock While this is an unusual local oddity here and time zone rules in all their complicated needs updating as countries change their laws. that even our digital gadgets can't keep So to review: daylight saving time gives more depending on where you live might be an advantage And it may (or may not) save electricity but make something that should be simple, keeping is why when it comes time to change the clocks should.