I'm going to share a Love it. But I think it's one Most people don't know this, but there's a brain structure called the anterior midcingulate cortex, as we pointed out before, it doesn't mean anything. Right. the cookie monster. Right. But what's interesting is there's now a lot of data, in humans, not some mouse study, showing that when people do like add three hours of or when people who are trying resist eating something. Right. When people do anything that they, and this is the important part, that they don't want to do, it's not about adding more work, it's about adding more work Yes. This brain area gets bigger. Yep. Now here's what's especially interesting about this brain area I'm only learning this recently because it's new data, The anterior midcingulate cortex is smaller in obese people, it gets bigger when they diet. It's larger in athletes, it's especially large or grows larger in people that see themselves as challenged and overcome some challenge. Right. And in people that live a very long time, this area keeps its size. In many ways, scientists of the anterior midcingulate cortex not just as one of the seats of willpower. Right. But perhaps actually the See, now we're talking. And when I learned about the I was like almost out of my seat. And I've been in the Now we're talking. And I was so pumped 'cause I've heard of the it's planning and action. I could tell you every I teach neuroanatomy to medical students. But when I started seeing the data on the anterior midcingulate cortex, I was like, whoa, this is interesting. Yep. And all the data points to the fact that we can build this area up. Yep. But that, as quickly as we build it up, if we don't continue to invest in things that are hard for us that's the part that Yes, sir. that we don't want to do, like if you love the ice bath, &quot;Yeah, I love the ice bath,&quot; and you go from one minute Your anterior midcingulate None. But if you hate the cold water, if you're afraid of drowning and put your head under. Yep. Then your anterior mid, and survive, then the anterior midcingulate But if you don't do it the next day, or if you do it the next because, hey, hey, I did it yesterday, woo-hoo, happy me, Merry Christmas, as you would say. Merry Christmas. Guess what? The anterior midcingulate DAVID: Yep. To me, this is one of the that neuroscience has ever made because it's that I don't but do it anyway. That's right. That grows this area, and it's almost like I have a friend, he's been sober 30 years from alcohol, and he always says, you know, the amazing thing about the problem is it only Yep. And so, you have to renew it every day. That's right. So the anterior midcingulate cortex to me, when I learned about it, two whoa, this is super interesting, and two, I got to tell And I waited until now. I'm glad. because I felt like, I wanted to tell you and Well, I love that because that's how I've I didn't know anything about that. But people go, &quot;Man, you It's something that you I was on a podcast one &quot;You were blessed with a strong mind.&quot; Like, the hell you talking about I was blessed with a strong mind? That's something that you have to develop. You develop that over and going back into the suffer. That's why a lot of people who I talk about very openly all the time, a lot of guys don't want don't want to go back into the hard stuff. Anything hard, anything hard in life, once you get through it, Like, how many POWs you know None. When something sucks so bad that we're talking about now, They're happy they graduated. I realized I'm the same way, I have to go back, I must go back. Because that is exactly where all the knowledge of my and what exactly what Well, I didn't know anything about this, but how I grew a will was so now, it's just life. I wake up, while it still You don't sit back and like, oh my God, like I have days I don't want to do it, but I know I'm going to do it. I know from years of just And this is why I came and I'm glad that you're because human beings need to hear this, they need to stop hearing there's no fucking hack, bro, there's no fucking hack, yeah, you may this and all this shit that they, yeah, it's great. There is no fucking life hack. To grow that thing, how do you grow it? Do it, and do it, and do it and do it. That's the hack, the hack And that's when I realized, That's why I wanted to come on here today, I didn't want to come on here and talk about no fucking and how to get the fuck out of bed and how to hit a fucking alarm clock and all this catchphrase bullshit, 'cause that wasn't how I I lived, I woke up like and goes, &quot;Fuck, man, I'm a How the hell is this And you fight that and you fight that, you don't override it, It's the conversation in your head. So how do you do that? We don't have enough about the real conversation and they have no idea how to It's that shit right there, How do you build your will? Exactly what you said. Well, I feel like knowing anterior midcingulate cortex doesn't fundamentally change us. But one thing I like about if somebody feels they don't have it, feels like this thing But everybody, unless like a hole through their head has two anterior midcingulate cortex, one on each side of their brain. Everyone has one, they have two. So I feel like it's just a and the portal, again, I'm and forgive me, is I think people go, &quot;Oh, I do hard things, and then I do forced reps.&quot; I love training with weights, I even like forced reps, but guess what? I like forced reps, so I'll tell you, they don't build my anterior Right. Because I like to do it. That's right. Anything you like to do is not going to enhance And it seems so obvious once you hear it, you kind of go, &quot;Oh yeah, of course.&quot; But I think you really when you share what you're sharing today and what you've shared when you're trying to explain the friction is the critical ingredient. Right. And I think people think, oh, if it's effort, well, that's part of it, necessary, as we say in science. But the suck part, the they're really unpleasant terms. Very. These are probably the we've ever used on this podcast. Very. Those are the levers, those are the gears. And without those, this thing David Goggins as a verb. Right. You know, I sometimes make DAVID: Right. Goggins is a name and it's a verb. People go, &quot;I'm going to Goggins that.&quot; Right. But that's, I think, again, but I think that's what The stick, the friction, being haunted, it's the suck part that grows this anterior midcingulate cortex. So now you know why there's so many people that fail in this world to their purpose in life, where do I go? Because to grow that, while you may not look like It don't look fun, it don't look fun. So it's a choice that But what's so funny about it who have everything, they &quot;I feel like I'm missing something.&quot; I don't feel like I'm missing shit. I don't have what you all have, but you'll never in my life hear me tell you I'm missing something. And everybody is, they're I found it, a long time ago, and I found it right there When you're nothing, nothing, and change yourself you call it happiness, peace, whatever the fuck you want to call it, people are missing exactly what &quot;Why don't you smile?&quot; I do, I do. But I figured something out, that's why you'll never hear me say, &quot;I'm missing something.&quot; I found it years ago. You find it in the suck, and you find it repeatedly in the suck, to the point where you Most people are missing something because they don't know who they are, they never examine themselves, they've never done this The lab rat, we're all lab rats. But you are also the scientist. You create your own self. Most people are missing something 'cause there's so much trapped in there. I don't even want to say potential, I think that word's used out too much too. There's so much in you that God or whoever the hell you believe in you, that you have not unlocked, that you walk around or great husband and all &quot;God, I feel like I'm missing something.&quot; Yeah, because it's about 75% of you is still fucking in because you just didn't didn't want to find your your determination, and what that looks like, it looks scary, like your little scary To wake up every day and say, &quot;I'm stupid, but I want to versus saying, &quot;Man, So you limit this box, so your box becomes so My box wasn't even a box, it was a fucking little And then, through examining myself, getting some willpower, some courage, it became bigger than this table. But that's what we all do, that's why I wanted to come here today and talk to you about real shit. Not no fucking like hacks, It's you against you, you against you. And if you misunderstand that, you have a real problem, real problem. I can understand you misunderstand me running down the street, shirt off, &quot;Fuck this, yeah, yeah,&quot; If you misunderstand what I'm saying right now and you don't want to fix it. [MUSIC PLAYING]