Hi, today I'm going to make one of the recipes that constantly stir up controversy. Everyone wants to say their thoughts about it. I'm talking about the carbonara. Everyone, including myself who said it as a joke, says they have the original recipe. Did you know that the original recipe does not exist? This is the kind of recipe that is passed from hand to hand. It could really be carbonare and this would explain the reference to pepper. Or what might be much closer to reality is that it was thanks to the Americans in World War II who left some bacon and they left the eggs and asked to make a plate of them. Or it could be a variation of a Neapolitan recipe. There are Neapolitan recipes prior to carbonara, made with eggs. I don't know what the reason is, but I know that actually as it happened with the tiramisu too it has become a recipe known worldwide. It is as if Italy were somehow recognized in the carbonara. It is a delicious dish and very easy to prepare. With this dish you can make choices in complete freedom. Because no one will be able to tell you how you have to eat carbonara. I will show you the one that is closer to a classic version, rather than an original one. Let's start. The first thing to do is to choose whether to use pork cheek (guanciale) or pancetta. To tell the truth, I use good quality pancetta 99% of the time. Because I don't always find a good quality guanciale. This guanciale I know to be good as I made it. So I'm going to use just that. Let's start with this and slice it. I made the first slice too thin. As you can see, I make sticks that are not too big. I have already cleaned, but a little bit of pepper is left. If you want you can remove it completely or leave it. I leave it because this little pepper is good for us. I light the flame under the pan. I don't add any fat and put the guanciale directly. Now I melt some of the fat then I take it out of the pan and it shouldn't burn it just needs to become slightly crunchy. While the guanciale is heating up in the pan I'm going to prepare the sauce. Eggs. 1 whole egg and 2 yolks. I am making 2 servings. I always calculate 1 yolk per person plus 1 whole egg. Since it takes very little time, I could have done it sooner ... I start cooking the pasta. The water is boiling. Salt. And... Ta dah! I don't put spaghetti in the usual way. I use mezze maniche pasta and do you want to know why? Because I like them very much! Return to the sauce. Eggs to which I add the grated pecorino cheese. You can add the Parmesan because it fits very well. You can decide to make half pecorino and half parmesan. In this case I have a pecorino that is not very strong and quite young and in my opinion it's fine, but if it had been a very seasoned pecorino I would have made half pecorino and half parmesan. Now I mix it well. I also add a nice pinch of ground black pepper. You choose the quantity you like, of course. All the ingredients of this recipe, the list, weights and measures found on the websitesite www.casapappagallo.it The recipe is practically done. Now I just have to wait for the pasta to be cooked. I remove the crispy guanciale from the pan. The last thing I do is add some pasta cooking water. I pour it into the eggs sauce and mix well. This operation is used to dissolve any lumps of cheese well and to bring this preparation to a slightly higher temperature. That's it: I didn't do anything in particular, no weird magic. I drain the pasta in advance and put it in the fat sauce that left the bacon Now the pasta is seasoned well with the fat with the pepper left by the guanciale I let it cook for a couple of minutes and then add the egg sauce. Look: the liquid left is very little. There must be very little of this liquid! Now I'll show you well. It is very thin and very dense. When this is the case, turn off the heat and remove the pan from the stove. Move it around a bit to let everything cool down quickly enough. Now you have to bring the temperature a little lower. I don't know if you can already notice the creaminess that is there! This is obviously given by the starch present in the cooking water. Okay. This is a very important moment: the egg sauce is added. If you are wondering why this bright yellow color the reason is that I used the eggs that are used to make fresh pasta. They have a much more colorful yolk. Now I also add the guanciale. What an incredible creaminess! Someone tells me they don't love the feel of raw egg. Actually the egg is not raw because it has been several minutes at over 70 deg C so it's already pasteurized! Beyond this, no one stops you from lighting the flame and heat it up! Do you enjoy having that omelette-like feeling more? Do it, because the beauty of cooking is this: everyone does what they like. I must tell the truth: this time it turned out really nice! It is really full-bodied: the moment I try to toss it in the pan it seems that it has an increased density ... Beautiful! I'm going to serve the pasta. To finish this dish as I like it, I add more pepper. I also add pepper to the pasta left in the pan. It is a fabulous carbonara! Lovely! Try it.