Get up my daughter and go to the doctor. You have kidney pain. How many years have you been suffering from this pain all the time? get up mother Whenever I get sick, I definitely go to the doctor. Get up, my dear girl, get up, my dear, bring your mother's dress and bag, bring her shoes, get up, my daughter. I'll help you put on your shoes, honey, my hands hurt too much. I have to stay here and take care of the children, the farm and the animals. Mom, I always go to the doctor when I'm sick. You should do the same. Sit on the ground, my dear. I can't walk. Come and sit on the edge of the platform. Be patient until you go to the doctor. My hand hurts and I can't even do farm work properly. He has kidney pain. Be sure to take Mehbooba to the doctor. Marzia, can you stay here? I have to go to school. My son, let me come with you. no dear you stay here where do you come from Take him with you. My daughter, go to school on foot. We have to hurry to the city. Bake bread for breakfast. It is not a car. You have to walk to school. Bring your bags and put these snacks in them and go to school. did you wear your clothes Yes, go this way, which is the closest way. Go this way. If you see a car on the road, go to school with it. In the name of God, get out of here, are you afraid? Do not stand on the road and drive cars. Please come in. The weather is cold. Batul can sleep in the snow by wearing this warm clothes. Take this, lift the rug. We have to shake the carpet. The weather is cold. come inside Thank you dear girls, my hand hurts and I could not gather the rugs. Is the goat shelter warm? They are currently among the goats. It is hot there, but the goats may hurt the kids. I feel severe pain from shoulder to here. can you come Yes, come slowly. Greetings, how is Mahbube? He is not bad. Mahbubeh has kidney stones. Did he do an ultrasound? Mahbube did tests and an ultrasound. We got the answer to one and the other answer will be prepared tomorrow. No one came to visit you? My dear Abulfazl was here. A few hours ago, the power and his daughters came. Give it to the power. I don't eat Have tea, my dear, did you walk to school? yes my god They got tired. Now you appreciate me for constantly moving you around with my car? Walking is an exercise in itself. Mother, we are getting very tired. You are young, my dear. We used to go up to a great height and bring firewood. The only weight you carry is school bags. Abbas' stitch mark is still visible. The doctor gave us a medicine that the stitch marks will disappear. The head of one of them was broken and it was not stitched. Its rejection is very clear. If the wound is sutured, there will be a little trace of the wound. We bought you clothes. Check which one is your size. Both are for you. get up I want a red dress. Slowly lower your shirt. come here The dress is exactly your size.. Change your pants. Calm down, you have to take off your pants regularly. My clothes look like wool. It is very hot. Thank you, my daughter. Thank you, dear , thank you, dear , for telling me not to eat. I eat oranges. Betol and Marzia come. Did you feed the goats alone? yes I was bothered to do this because I fed the goats with straw several times. Catching Fariba chicks is a difficult task because the chicks attack the hens and do not allow them to enter the nest. do you have anything Stay here for the night. No, thank you. Abulfazl, let's go. Honey, let me do things. no We cannot do it ourselves. Do not sweep the leaves in that direction. Nasru, take care that the goats do not come down. hello Dear Arash, hello and greetings to Nasru, let's pack our things and go to Isfahan. come all Greeting did you have breakfast? No, light the fire so that we can have breakfast and move towards Isfahan. I will light the fire now, my dear. I bring firewood. Where is the black cat? What do you want it for? I want to put it on fire. Marzia, how are you? Be safe, Medina will take the camera from you now. I am very tired. ok dear For now, cooperate with your mother. I close the door of the chicken coop. Put the sticks on my hands. Put wood again. My hands are big. Come down, be careful not to light the fire. Do not hit the ball like this. Abbas, go next to us, we scored the ball. pass write I will raise Abbas so that we can play volleyball. give me the camera don't be tired my dear Go play with them. Wax my shoes too. You cannot use wax to clean them. Mother, let me bake the bread. Medina, my dear, take Dubin. Arash, I brought you something, my dear, close the door, take care of your glasses, I brought you new glasses. These glasses are very beautiful and more expensive than the previous ones. look at me take your hand These glasses are more beautiful. Are you comfortable with it? It is a little big. This is all the glasses box. Put the glasses here when you sleep. Where do I put this? Arash Khoshtap came to throw it away . You have become very beautiful. It's great. Congratulations, these glasses don't fall off. It is a bit heavy. The previous glasses fell down easily. You should not use other people's glasses. Let me use the glasses again. Do not do this snake again. It is small for you. These glasses are only suitable for Arash. I have to put medicine on your wound. Spread the medicine well on Abbas's skin. I have to wash this. Did you cook an egg on it? The donkeys that I drove away from here came back again. Do not cook eggs in this pan. my god Your wound is deep. Arash is to blame. It was your own fault. Bring the glasses, Fariba. Please bring the basket. Take this. Did you buy these clothes for mother? Yes, why didn't you buy colorful and happy clothes for yourself? This is also colorful and happy. I bought these for you. Thank you my dear girl. You should save your money for your daughters. I also bought these for myself. We have to take them to a tailor to sew them. I bought these hats for my daughters. These are fragrant. How much did you buy these? I also bought shoes for them for two dollars . be blessed Who are these for? Kausar and Zahra did he eat? No, he has a lot. Eat first, then I will give you medicine. Eat this now my dear. I have a toothache. Eat from the other side of your mouth. Be sure to eat the bread. someone help me Mahmoud please take this and leave it there it is very beautiful. Should I pour water? Pour a small amount of water. Explain so that I can learn too. Pour the batter slowly on the pan and spread it. I want to buy one too. Why don't you buy happy color? Black color is fashionable. Black is the color of love. This scarf is not beautiful on these clothes. Be careful, did you take medicine, did you feel better? Fariba, my dear, bring out a little raghan . Good luck to my dear girl. The card is great. This is an excellent animal oil. Shall I bake another bread? Yes, my daughter, let Cobra bake bread too. Put plastic on it to soften the goat skin. Kobra, come bake bread , don't use the dough, my dear. It's good, my daughter. It's enough, my dear, to move the pan further, well done, my dear, it may fall into the fire. The agreement falls apart. Arash wants to bake the next bread. It's great, my dear. It's Arash's turn. Arash, sometimes you are alone here and the girls are at school. And you had to bake bread yourself, my dear, if no one was here, you could easily bake bread Call Urzans now. You may feel sick after eating my bread. Turn the pan upside down. Let me do it. Well done my son. How do you think Nant is doing? It is very delicate. The thin part of the bread is burnt. Well done my dear, you can put this on your neck. Dear Arash, thank you. The card is great, bring cheese and cream. We are going to travel. But we cannot all go together. We travel in two stages. Once the residents of Dora Farm and once the residents of Perk Farm, we can go to Isfahan or Shiraz. Make up your own mind. eat breakfast Then decide. Come eat, I will not go where Abbas goes. We are going to the city of lords.