Keep watching to the end of announcement If I tell you to imagine a telescope, what cylinder with lenses at both ends, similar gaze up at the heavens and see the moons of a cathedral-sized dome with mirrors as big as the mountains of Chile and Hawaii. Or you could like the infamous Arecibo telescope, that once What you probably aren't imagining, is a surface of our planet's South Pole. And yet, there lies precisely this. A strange telescope on Earth, designed to observe - not light elusive particles in the Universe. I'm Alex we're joining the IceCube Observatory in its hunt If you stood on this icy surface, you might not Universe are being observed beneath your feet. base in the world - the Amundsen-Scott of the very ice in which it is built to But why? Why this extreme environment and Really weird. Neutrinos are fundamental particles, like quarks and electrons. Most of these where they are released from the nuclear fusion will have come from more cataclysmic origins or any other cosmic event with enough energy Similar to electrons, neutrinos belong to the do not interact with other matter through the particles like protons and neutrons together. almost no mass whatsoever. This lack of charge with other particles through the weak nuclear making them one of the most difficult particles when we do measure their presence, it is only If that wasn't spooky enough, neutrinos can acknowledging the existence of a single atom of the Earth - flying straight out of the other of neutrinos surging through you every single there is only a 1 in 4 chance that even one atom that belongs to your body. Most of these where they are released from the nuclear fusion will have come from more cataclysmic origins or any other cosmic event with enough energy Here we find further demonstration of with matter in the Universe. Photons, may take 1 million years between bursting out into space. They are constantly absorbed and over and over again by the atoms in our star, Neutrinos, instead, zoom straight travelling at almost the speed of light itself. neutrinos are certainly the more coy and they do mingle with other matter - and in particle events cascading out in their wake. It Suspended down between one and a half and two ice shelf are 5,160 detectors arranged into a been completely swallowed up by the thousands of these detectors - called DOMS - are in fact light is not observing light, at least, not direct universe. Neutrinos are so elusive, the DOMs must cascade of reactions that starts with a neutrino in a blue flash. When the DOMs detect a blue ray or a neutrino has passed through the ice, The key step in this cascade, and therefore is the muon particle that springs out of the the newly created muon hurtles through the the speed it takes light to move through that same than light... in a vacuum; but in other materials, be outpaced. This isn't a violation of physics, more than other particles within the ice. As it generates a shockwave of blue light expanding an eerie phenomenon known as Cherenkov radiation. with nuclear reactors, eerily emanating through hue in nuclear cores and strangely also down and atmospheric, but is in fact the quantum from a supersonic jet plane flying overhead. pressure or sound waves are pushed out in all towards the speed of sound, the waves in front high pressure. When the plane exceeds the speed causing a rapid change of air pressure - this out in a cone, trailing behind the aircraft, In the case of the muon, the but instead disturbing the electric fields of polarizing the water molecules. As the molecules the energy that forced them into polarisation directions. This is happening all along the path muon is triggering emission of electromagnetic out into all directions, producing a cone of If the muon was travelling slower than light and all the expanding light spheres would cancelling out to complete darkness. But since a shock front of constructive waves in the of Digital Optical Modules of IceCube are flashing through the ice. The miniscule time flash and when the neighbouring DOMs detect it, and trace its path back through the ice, and These orb-like detectors are marvellous, intricate hints in the icy mass. Each DOM is encased which protects the electronics inside from the ice (Botner et al., 2005). Inside, there to detect even a single photon, along with and convert it into digital data, which surface. And with so many detectors making of data. A whole terabyte of measurements are that being beamed by satellite to scientists in search of their ghostly quantum target . of many particles arriving from beyond our IceCube detects around 275 million of them daily. but serve as an obscuring curtain of noise which occur a million times less frequently, with 100,000 neutrino detections that IceCube makes our own atmosphere as debris from collisions of our planet, and not from cosmic origins On the 22nd of September 2017, an exceptionally by IceCube's array of detectors. Working together, when they each detected the flash to trace the neutrino that created it, all the way back to a depths of our Universe... a blazar, a supermassive hurling jets of particles towards Earth. not the first time that IceCube had but this detection was the first to trigger a indicating that there was something significant to had entered the world of multi-messenger not just light - like it has been for most of waves, cosmic rays, and now neutrinos. us to look through because - like gravitational from a major astronomical event does. Because of neutrinos take a very direct path to our detector, magnetic fields that interfere with its fully integrated into a planetary network of for signs of high-energy events, ready to inform to point to see rare and transient phenomena IceCube is the noble watchmen, sounding the alarm globe, commanding them where to aim to catch sight that, IceCube can give us a unique view into unlike photons, neutrinos can escape relatively such as the Core-collapse of supernovae explosions neutron stars, or even the searing fury deliver new and different information; it can so to speak. The neutrinos it detects can hugely of the most fundamental nature of the Universe. limits; particles are accelerated to speeds and can achieve in our particle accelerators on Earth, their theories, and use the arrival of neutrinos the behaviour and properties of neutrinos, but This is why so much effort was put into building Observatory: an effort that took seven years to winter when planes are shutout from Earth's only able to briefly resume for the summer months the IceCube team drilled 86 holes using 18,000 litres of fuel per hole, and melting a few hundred scientist live and work in one of in an attempt to understand the most extreme of the most elusive particle in the Universe. kingdom. It takes bold and ingenious ideas from neutrino. We know so little about them compared to furthering our understanding of the fundamental we are moving closer to comprehending the Our solar system is filled with the Beautiful the few years ago astram created something really cool full page images of the planets in our solar them to broaden your knowledge and instill to get their hands on a copy Incredible just a day but if you wish you'd been there there will soon be another chance we're doing great gift that can really spark the interest of of my favorite images of our planets if you're Christmas or just want a really great quality book the astrom store until the 8th of September this that'll be that go check it out by scanning the below thanks for watching we are now very on patreon and I can't thank you enough we get the more it's looking like I'll be back astram answers so submit your video if you'd like to become an astronaut you can you join you'll be able to watch the whole and submit questions to our team once again a team meanwhile click the link to this playlist