- What if I told you that with customers from small mom and pop shops to giants like Nike and Apple is about to change forever, and it all boils down to personalization, automation, It can be tough to parse and what is genuinely So in this video, we aim to act as a guide and tell you exactly what We'll be walking you through and have seen tangible results from. By the end, you'll have and the tools to implement AI and take your game to the next level. Let's dive in. So is AI and marketing just a buzzword? Well, not really, because you can actually and improve many parts of your company's marketing behavior to predicting trends and optimizing campaigns much faster and better than humans alone could do. And here's the thing, AI It's about supercharging our creativity. It handles repetitive tasks and crunches numbers, giving and be creative. Think of AI as an and is always ready to work personalize and optimize your marketing. But more on that later, big and Facebook are already using AI to create personalized experiences and target ads more effectively. You know that product to read your mind? Yeah, that's AI. It's analyzing your buying patterns and millions of other similar people and spitting out the perfect fit. But here's what's changed. The rise of affordable and easily accessible AI access to AI. So you can use AI in your brand would take email marketing. For example. You're likely to your customers every month. While you might have some to get better at email marketing, your larger competitors so they have a ton of data on This is where tools like and democratize access to the data. They process billions of They learn what email timings work best, which subject lines get clicks, and which call to action This valuable data is then used to make the platform smarter, helping their users get better When AI first came on after tools like chat GPT, Marketers were excited but also unsure how these tools would fit AI seemed both promising Now, AI is a must have in marketing. The early doubts have faded, and we've seen what AI can really do. It's not just a cool idea that makes marketing more Now that we understand AI's impact, let's dive into personalization and see how it can transform So what is AI personalization? Let me be perfectly honest with you. AI personalization is not just It's about delivering the through the right channel. Here's what I mean by that. Good examples of personalization, timing. AI can figure out when each to engage with your content. Some people check emails in the morning and others in the evening. AI can send emails at the Tags and segmentation. AI helps you tag and segment your audience and preferences. For example, you can tag and send them special promotions Predictive content AI can predict what content a customer will like next. So if someone often reads AI can suggest similar articles, keeping them interested and engaged. Conditional content blocks. It will show different content to different users based So newcomers might see a customers get personalized Making mass content feel personal even when emailing thousands of people. AI can make each email feel personal by changing the content based and has done before. Tools to help you personalize Let's start with Fin can help you deliver experiences at scale. And fin doesn't just answer it can do in 43 different languages. It acts as a real support to the right team member. Let's say someone visits your website and has a question about your product. Instead of waiting for a to answer instantly. Maybe they're asking about pricing or need help with the feature. Finn handles the query right away, but it doesn't stop there. If the visitor needs more detailed help, Finn can route the issue It can also send follow-up behavior, like a discount of time on the pricing page. Using Finn means your customers and feel valued boosting their It removes the support burden by answering repetitive questions so you can keep your CS team lean and focus on the real issues. Next, let's talk about ActiveCampaign's ai, email follow up. ActiveCampaign uses predictive content and predictive sending to truly personalize your emails at scale. For example, let's say and you know your customers around 8:00 PM ActiveCampaign's, and send your emails at the perfect time for each individual. ActiveCampaign doesn't just guess. It collects and analyzes data It ensures that each email feels personal and relevant, boosting customer and loyalty. By reaching your customers with the right info at the right time, you can nurture leads, increase sales, and build stronger relationships. It's AI driven tools and improve your email campaigns, helping your business grow. The last personalization tool Spark, a video personalization powerhouse. Here's how it works in a nutshell. You record one video with a placeholder for your viewer's first name. Then you import your You get personalized videos each uniquely tailored with their name and a custom website background. Here's an example. Let's say you have a list of 50 warm leads from Instead of creating 50 separate and Sendspark does the rest. Each lead gets a video that and relevant background included. Here's a sample so you Hey, Ivy, it was great Alright, let's talk automation. Let me paint you an what AI automation is Imagine data enhancement but 100 times deeper. Lead scoring will be automatic and customized to your of data points and historical trends. Imagine your campaigns and automation evolving in They'll change tempo, The AI will learn about and cater to them. Imagine repetitive tasks and figuring out the search with minimal effort, which is a great segue into Let's start things off with and SEO specifically using hres ai keyword intent automation. hres helps you understand the Sometimes it's obvious for sushi restaurant near me, but for more complex queries a tool like HFS can shed some of search intents and suggest what content This is where automation comes into play. With hfs, you can automate a crucial part of your keyword research. For example, let's say that you wanna rank for the keyword product management. HFS can then break down the It might show that 55% for information on understanding while 44% want to learn about and 1% are searching for how With this insight, you can that covers all these intents. You might start with an overview of what product management is, and then provide tips on This approach helps you rank higher and capture more traffic by addressing all the major This kind of detailed analysis over the competition. Instead of guessing what content what your audience is looking for and can tailor your content accordingly. Google prioritizes relevance So if you want to rank in Google, your content must be the most First and foremost, that means with search intent of the target audience. Ahrefs AI Keyword Intent by providing precise, actionable to dominate your niche. And of course, it wouldn't without mentioning email marketing. For email marketing, AI recommended automations. You pick a goal and the AI It gives you fully with industry specific This tool takes care of the setup so you can focus on the content. One of the biggest barriers that there are always a hundred So having a tool that and turn it into a funnel optimized to best practices is huge. For example, you could just that you want a weekly email that goes out on Friday, and after three weeks or if they and boom, it will build for you automatically. Alright, let's dive into First off, let's clear something up. AI isn't meant to replace your creativity. There was a time when people articles or blog posts from scratch and then make them rank on Google. Turns out that's not the best idea. AI generated content often lacks the depth and nuance that real human writers bring. It sounds mechanical, it can hallucinate, and you really need to check the sources. So use AI to enhance your content, not create it from scratch. So where does AI fit in? Think of it again, as AI can help generate and content for video. It can suggest edits or create short clips from longer videos. When it comes to SEO, AI can help optimize content like finding the best keywords to use or suggesting improvements and search friendly. Now let's look at some tools that can help you use content creation. The next tool on our list for brainstorming and drafting content. Here's how it works in a nutshell. When you're stuck for ideas, You can use it to kick off blog or add copy. Jasper gives you a solid refine to make it truly yours. Here's an example. Let's say you're part of and you want to scale Instead of brainstorming and drafting from scratch it helps generate ideas and drafts quickly, freeing and adding your personal touch. And yes, you can do all of but ultimately your choice of AI assistance you're looking for. Here's what it boils down to. If you're looking to generate chat, GPT is the better generalized tool that's flexible enough to handle very tasks. ActiveCampaign has several The first one being the AI brand kit tool. This tool saves you from You can import your brand's colors, fonts, and logos to generate email templates and content that fits your brand quickly. This historically is a so this is a huge value add. The second tool from ActiveCampaign is AI Content Generation. This feature helps you and content by handling the initial setup. It saves you time by giving which you can then customize OpusClip takes any long form content and breaks it down into with relevant B-roll It takes what used to and compresses it into 10 minutes. Imagine you've just recorded Instead of spending hours for social media, you can chops a webinar into and includes smooth transitions. The kicker is it uses to identify the most viral beyond just a simple editing tool. Alright, all right, let's wrap this up. We covered a lot today. We talked about how AI can automation, and content creation. We also discussed practical tips for implementing AI into your strategy and the tools that can Now it's your turn to take action. AI tools and techniques are not just for the big players anymore. They're accessible, easy to use, and can make a huge difference So don't wait. Try out these AI tools and see Thank you for watching this on AI marketing. If you want more content like this one, let us know in the comments below. This is a new format for us, what we can do to make it even better.