today we will assamble a generator that can source an entire house! We've tried to make one in winter, but really failed that time Carefully! And! we've decided to make it much bigger We've found an enormous plastic sewer pipe in this purpose. it's 200mm diameter It was hard to get it in my town. according to my calculations we are likely to make some great 1.5 meter blades out of it. And a even weak wind of 10 meters per second will give is 1,5 Kw of energy that we need! there's the cardboard we are going to make stencil of then we will put the stencil on the tube and that's it then I make it like This! And we've got some fine flat cardboard trousers! ok ok, just kidding! there's the stencil we needed we've made it. and now comes the installation process! We don't want it fall again, thus we are raising it in two parts there comes the motor it's the made last time out of the electric bike motor and this one suits perfectly, because it has an awful lot of neodymium magnets and windings so, it will give is much power out of slow torque firstly we are attaching the motor to this mast then we will connect the blades to it here they are! the 1.5 meter blades it's hot here these keyboards are the wind stabilizers here so the blades will always face the wind wherever it comes from and the motor hangs on the wheel hub, by the way pay attention that there's almost no wind on the ground but there's some on the roof should I help you maybe? bloody hell! what was that sound! oh, that's just the pipe went a little down there's a special technic of walking on that roof there are the greased seams, and you must step only on them or else? or else I will break the seams and his roof will start to leak. And Stas would kill us hey, where are you going? go bring there the fan! the fan... I just got too involved in talking yeah, I got that there it comes! The creation moment! I just admire how big is that one! the hardest part now, he spinning it to connect the blades does it go well? nope it doesn't stop spinning with wind fantastic! it's going to catch the wind! and it's the first spinning! omg! that is really fast! though there isn't much wind here today that's a beasty wind generator! and there's the wire, here in goes... it goes under the roof here and it goes this way then and it meets the summer kitchen here let's measure up the voltage we've got! + - connecting... It's 37 V ! Cool! but that is without any devices sources out it will give out less, because there will be a 12 V accumulator connected now I've connected here 7 of 90w and 12v bulbs let's see ourselves, how brightly this generator will light them up as you see they do light pretty well and the brightness falls, sure oh, there's a little more now. sure the motor slows down oh! the wind has just given some power! and they light really well anyway. This wind generator was made to charge up the accumulator then the voltage will go in the inverter and now let's attach the inderter to the system I've also connected these two testers. This one shows the voltage rate of the battery and this one the charging percentage Wow! It's 14! the accumulator is almost full charged! there comes almost 15! that's a good sign as I said we've got an accumulator here so this wind generator will source your needs even when there's no wind we don't really need 12V we want 220, or cource let's check out what we've got well, there's the energy let's try to use something very greedy for voltage let's make the dream of sourcing the entire house with green wind energy come true I've connected these two old TV forks like this Then I plug one end in the socket, and another in inverter And as a result the voltage from the inverter will be connected to the house electric net but there's one thing needs to be done before doing it we must screwed out the fuses and turn off the main energy lever we do it to prevent any short circuits and disconnect the electricity provider last move let's try I think that's it the light is on. Let's see around the house and check how everything's working That all is working! End even the ventilation system works well All's on fire. I can start repairing my car here well, the light works perfectly let's try to source some harder stuff let's see now... oh... Ok I see it. is that satellite? nope and there is the light where's the piggy? Oh! there you are! the power is even more than we expected! with a slow torque this energy is enough for the entire house but when the wind is too strong, we have to use the extra energy for heating Wind Generator is a nice Green solution! Unlike the solar plant, this generator is really cheap! And it works perfectly even when there's not much sun, in winter or fall the wind generator has only one flaw It is extremely useless when there's no wind we are going to make a giant lithium battery to cover this flaw but first we have to check out how safe to use these lithium batteries and we will make a crush test! Don't miss this one! Subscribe! Share with your friends! Your attention makes us work better and faster! Thank You Patrons And other Viewers!