- This is a $2 million diamond. The reason with a nano material that makes light almost the facets and reflections that give diamonds makes this possible is the blackest substance made This bird might disagree. Hey, smart people, Joe So this is something that we normally think then you see it next to something like this. you can get. And this is really really black. black bird feathers I don't know. This is paints in the world. It really messes with For something to be black, it has to stop light out there are different blacknesses of black, absorb light in different ways. Some allowing Beyond being cool and fun to play with, ultra black materials have a bunch of uses, from the light from distant stars, to making better For decades, scientists, engineers, even artists, they're getting some inspiration These are terrifying looking. This just represent some of the blackest - These guys represent some of the - The deep ocean is full of strange life forms is a scientist at the Smithsonian trying to but there are a few species she - So I started studying these guys get a picture of these black fish. I - These super black, deep-sea fishes have names It's a pretty accurate name, actually, surviving means not being seen. In the That may sound pretty easy, but it's - By the time you hit 1,000 meters, which is like from the surface. Even though there isn't a whole that habitat. So if you go down and you turn off all around you. If I am startled that you're here, that it lights you up so that something else - Many deep-sea animals have such sensitive eyes dark environment. So to stay unseen, these to absorb almost every last bit of stray light is a super dense layer of pigment granules. into the pigment molecules. Our skin has pigment you might have lighter or darker skin. But these on earth. These blue dots are pigment granules compare that with how dense the pigment The density of pigment is crazy. Because of how any light that isn't immediately absorbed into a neighboring bit of pigment, - [Karen] They take the same pigment of cells they normally use and they just instead of within their skin layers, they - How much light are these absorbing? - [Karen] So to be considered ultra black, you hits you. So they're really not bouncing back any reflectometers couldn't measure small enough well, it's zero. And we're like, well, it - Really, really close to zero. - Really, really, really close to zero. - Studying what makes these deep-sea fish so black - And so all you have to do to replicate this, if or you want to make something disappear is the right size and shape melanin granules, - So we can, we could have biotech, recombinant, deep-sea fish pigments that we could paint - You could. - Okay. Or you could build, - I like that. - Or something. - Okay, so let's see. We can, not a fair it's dead, and not in its natural environment, is the best that humans can do, pretty even blacker waiting in the deep sea - I think we've reached peak blackness. - These fish may be the blackest things in are even blacker. The pigment in this paint those fish. It absorbs about 99.4% of just 6 out of every 1000 photons manage these pigments that we start losing the I mean, my shirt is black, but look at this. even blacker things than that. But to do that, we In 2014, scientists realized that tiny forests black materials Unlike pigments, which absorb molecular cages. So photons that get in can't developed by MIT engineers, traps 99.995% of light forest of light-trapping nanotubes. That's what nano coatings have to be laid down using elaborate and considerably more expensive. But you may out this way of using nanotech to make ultra - I'm so excited to see these birds 'cause I've only ever seen these on - This one almost looks like it's dancing. - It has the right outfit. - The shirt. - What we're looking at here is the blackest birds of paradise. There are many more than three. - These have some of the blackest feathers I've ever seen in a living thing. But why these birds these birds aren't ultra black for camouflage. - These guys, we think, and we've that the reason these guys are so bizarre-looking selection. One female bird of paradise, who sadly is going to choose a mate. And his only job is He does not help raise them. He does just delivering the genetic material, and off at having the best offspring, she needs to pick together in these birds, where they're doing these - A male with brighter feathers and how healthy and strong his genes are to basis of sexual selection. So this sort this island of the pressures of mating have - Yes, yes, like the most - Because there's black and then there is this. edge of the bird is because it just, it's like a - Presumably it's also short circuiting the So that's the coolest part of the blackest and then we have the brightest bright doing their mating displays, what they're in a way that arranges the blackest black - [Joe] Okay. - And that contrast would be startling by actually doing is tricking the visual system. impossible to really know how bright the bright you and adjusting it constantly. So scientists these feathers to try and understand how is this that's like velvet. Velvet is black, - [Joe] Mm-hmm. - That stick up. Like velvet but better bits that stick up, and when the light then instead of bouncing straight back in all of these little nanostructures that - The fuzzy structures in the just like those carbon nanotubes. When light these feathers trap something like 99.95% of black nanomaterials that humans have ever been spiders, even snakes, make ultra blacks using birds. Nature was able to mold these incredible through the forces of evolution and selection. And own. Because of ultra black materials, we've been never before, harness energy, even make our own Ultimately, making something totally and extremes of physics and spacetime. But nature has Stay curious. Thank you so much for sticking we have a special treat for you. It is one of drum roll, please. The PBS Digital Studio's Annual what you like what you don't like, what you'd like you'd like to continue shaping the future of PBS, there's a link down in description below. We can't for watching our latest video. Make sure you hit to it, so you can find out when we upload a new of our curious community find these videos in this always, you can check out our Patreon page, where With your help, maybe we can afford to paint the the description where you can learn more. This - [Camera Man] Rolling. - Oh, hello, I didn't see you there. It really messes with your blay, This is ama- This is ridiculous. Can't even