repair battalion... the holy of holies of any unit. This place can be confidently compared to a hospital, but for vehicles Today, we are recording this video in the midst of the defense of Chasiv Yar by the famous 24th Brigade named after King Danylo The situation around the city is extremely complicated but we are here not just to tell you about the machines, we will tell you the stories of the people who serve on these machines about those who maintain these machines and those who are capable of heroic deeds In the background, repair work is underway, is it M113? - M113A3 and you have several such machines What are their histories in general, are they vehicles after being wounded in combat? Yes, they worked mainly on evacuation work that is, they took the wounded from the front line Why do they break down? Sometimes there is an explosion nearby, a shrapnel hits the nozzle The mechanic, of course, reported this to the commander, and the commander values people more than machines they take people out until the car breaks down completely Of course, it still reaches that state, and we immediately repair it with the help of the repair and restoration battalion It's 4:05 p.m., and at a regular service station, the workers would have already washed their tools and finished their work but this is no ordinary service station, it is a repair battalion and this is the need of the military As soon as M arrives at the hangar, the guys get to work, and the amount of work is considerable First, they remove the "grill", which is a protection against drone strikes To get to the engine, a lot of spare parts need to be removed, and the work has already begun Is it actually a bonnet? - Yes Yes, it is a bonnet, but the engine is not removed through the bonnet There are these bolts here, and we unscrew them. Can I feel the weight of this bonnet? Wow! It's armored. In fact, it needs to be lifted by two people Where should I attach the hook on the engine? closer to the box or further away from the box? Because there are places where it gets stuck... subscribe to our channel, like our videos When they bring these machines and you listen to the stories of how they broke down... What are your impressions of these stories? I have the impression that these are not machines, they are robots They are very hardy, reliable and durable. a 120 mm mine exploded near it and the vehicle was not damaged... right next to this machine? - Yes, and the car was only hit by shrapnel The crew is alive, everyone is safe... yes, they have contusions, but they are alive The machine has saved many lives I served on an infantry fighting vehicle and when I rode the M113, I realized that there is no better option than the M113 I have several of these vehicles and they are used as combat vehicles in one of the infantry combat companies as an evacuation vehicle, a specialized medical vehicle M113 and another specialized vehicle, it is a mobile command and control center everyone has proven themselves to be the best fast, maneuverable, easy to use, large used for the transportation of personnel, for the transportation of ammunition, for the transportation of supplies In the example of this car, we can see that there is damage, most likely it was an explosion? Yes, these are explosions from artillery shelling, this car still had a damaged roller... we have probably replaced it by now This roller was pierced through, which means that the vehicle can withstand quite powerful artillery fire and at night, a similar vehicle withstood a direct hit from a drone's FPV Is it there? - Yes, it's in the front of this car. The impact was on this stiffening rib and the car withstood it, the guys got a slight contusion, recovered and drove on The car was hit right in the rib... - Yeah, the stiffener. What is the general condition of the vehicles leaving the battlefield? This is probably not the only such Every day since the start of the mission, every day these vehicles arrive with some kind of damage and during the day they are restored, for example, like today, this similar machine will be restored, this cable will be put in place and tonight it will go to the task The main task is time? - Yes It's a few minutes, just a few minutes. - Labor? - Yes. arrive promptly, transfer the necessary supplies and leave arrive promptly, load those who need to be evacuated, and leave very quickly, in a matter of minutes it happens The machine meets all these requirements, it is fast and maneuverable and very comfortable... We are talking about machines, but this is a question of people who serve on these machines Honestly, when I see these videos, how they work, what they do at a time, how many FPV drones are hunting them, shooting down "grills", drone defense These are heroic deeds. - Of course they are. - It takes heroic people to go there... You see these people, you communicate with them, what can you tell us about the mechanics-drivers? I admire their skills, knowledge and practical abilities, as well as their courage, bravery and sacrifice They are definitely the heroes of our time. As much territory as the motorized infantry units conquer, so much will be the border of our Ukraine. I think that we will win back all the borders and will stand on the border of Ukraine There is hope for this and a very strong desire, in fact Is this car directly yours? Your unit? - Yes Can you tell us a little bit about her story? How it got into repair, I understand that it was not from a good life The car was repaired 2 days ago, it happened during the evacuation, the driver reported that he heard extraneous noises in the engine but since there was a risk of destroying the vehicle and it was under constant fire, especially the loss of personnel it was decided to continue driving, the vehicle drove to a safe place And when we carried out diagnostics, we saw that the level of coolant in the radiator had dropped, and the oil level had increased This means that coolant was poured into the engine and a hole was punched somewhere. We can see this engine right here, and it will be restored and put back on the car today or tomorrow. This is what a modern war with our eternal enemy looks like, a brutal war for the survival of the Ukrainian state and the Ukrainian nation machines operate in extreme conditions, when they are stretched to the limit in terms of engine power and other spare parts The track and rollers were damaged, we can still see these damages, but nevertheless the vehicle can withstand these 2-3 critical kilometers to transport the personnel or for evacuation So now the scope of work is actually reduced to replacing the engine? Yes. - The shell remains the same as it was and the engine has a crack in the base of the housing on which the radiator is mounted, due to vibration, it will be replaced the broken one will be replaced there, and the radiator will be cleaned and rinsed if possible, if not, it will be replaced with a working one we will replace the oil and coolant and in 2 days the machine will be back in Chasovyi Yar Without the repair battalion, it would be very difficult for the guys at the front During 2 weeks of intense fighting, such as the motorized infantry battalion is currently engaged in, half of the equipment would be broken the repair battalion is a combat unit of our brigade, exclusively friendly relations with the repair battalion and with the command of the battalion and with repairmen I want to say that they also have evacuation departments in the evacuation company they carried out the evacuation of our damaged equipment last December in extremely difficult conditions, under fire from &quot;Grad&quot;. I was present, participated in the evacuation, admire these guys that is, these are exceptionally dedicated, self-sacrificing people, excellent specialists and strong in spirit real brothers, they help us 24/7, 30-31 days a month, 365 a year when there is a need, they got in touch, and the guys already come to help funny situation, now we are shooting a storyboard to show you the beautiful plans, and when the guys are working, they ask to show the tool they are working with there is help from civilians, from volunteers, there is from the unit. But we still lack a tool, a type of special tool. ratchets and various power tools which is used in auto repair they are asking for funds to get involved, not indifferent viewers to get involved and support the military, because even to buy such an instrument - for this you need money, finances you need to find them somewhere, deliver them in order to repair the car come to ZSU, help us have you already installed it? - Yes, it remains to connect the tube with the box. - Yes, there are pipes, there is oil in the engine, there is antifreeze, they brought it. We install the preliminary start and we will check the machine as it works Well, let's put it in the car, they already checked the engine on the spot, started it, everything is fine we will connect and install it by this evening. - OK, and there will be a test drive tomorrow yes, tomorrow we will drive. - It is advisable to check everything so that there are no leaks, and the gearbox can be cleaned of dirt. - We have a sprayer, let's wash... yes, it is washed and installed on the car so that it is not dirty we clean the gearbox from dust and dirt, so that when we install the engine and the start, we can see the leakage of lubricant or hydraulic fluid so that we can quickly eliminate it, so as not to search and look at different points. And when we return the car after repair, it must always be clean so that the same mechanic the driver is not afraid and can climb in and see the problem, then tell us and we can come and quickly fix this problem we took it in for repair and started to fix the problems, it turned out that the motor had jammed. After that, we wrote an application, received a new engine and will install it on this machine so that it continues to perform its tasks repair this engine and so on? - we do not repair, we change the engine and install the gearbox nothing complicated at all it's like a normal car the engine was delivered, everything is simple, everything is unscrewed, there are no errors or anything else that we cannot cope with it's the easiest thing we can do engine replacement can be done in 1 day if you become a team everything can be done, with BMP there are some disadvantages.. until you get and replace that engine... but you get used to everything now my guys are directed to work purely with M113, we restore them quickly and on time in general, has the number of equipment increased since the beginning of active actions in our brigade? yes, the technique is getting more every day. Somewhere the metal needs to be boiled, somewhere it has peeled off or melted from the explosion, and we quickly repair it, because we know what it is depending on the metal, we weld aluminum with argon, we have specialists who used to work as welders, they came by themselves, no one pulled them by force they understand why they came recover quickly. If we have the material, we will do it. If not, we wait for the material to arrive and restore it there are guys who come from the infantry, because he is no longer able to work for the infantry, an injured arm or leg, but here they show their abilities and give their best Leonid is a specialist in the repair of BMP and M113. He is very well-read and literate now he is a platoon leader, but he works with everyone, because he understands that there is no one else, and he does it to the fullest he was in the infantry, he fought, but not for long, he was taken to the repair battalion, because they saw his technical abilities as they say - love for technology is instilled here now we connected the gearbox with the motor, changed the attachments that were missing and will now install them was there anything extraordinary? or planned work? - Yes, planned work extraordinary there is... not here yet damage can be both mechanical and from FPV drones, for example, an anti-drone net can be damaged and it will save lives, if it were not there, most cars would be coffins and we are trying to make sure that fewer cars come here, we restore it qualitatively and reliably when did you first see these videos, when a drone flies over the grills you made and they save lives, what was the feeling? I was strangely impressed, it was not for nothing that we did it we have come to the point where we know how to do it as they say - it was breathtaking I was very glad that we know how to do it, and it works for us. And when we see these videos, we rejoice more than the infantry because we know we saved lives what are the values in general in the repair battalion? values? values are people, without people there will be nothing here. What are machines and machines? Our people are multitasking and multifunctional. Both BMP and tanks or M113 can be made for us, in fact, it is generally repair and restoration, we do not do more How does service in the repair battalion differ from regular work at a service station? in the repair battalion, the service is like a family, we work as a team, if we all gather to do something together, then we will work until the last, but we will do this work, and then we'll just rest some Soviet constitution, statutes, orders - is there such a thing in the repair battalion? why? if people already understand what you want from them the more you restrain people, the more get fed up, they stop listening to you if you give people faith in yourself, invest hope and love - then the attitude will be different I know that the task is completed and there is an unfinished task If done on time or just did, counts. No one can set deadlines, because it is a technique it can and break down something may fail under installation time... Well, no one will give a 100 percent guarantee, that is when we have already done the technique. We are already we are sure of what we did to her then. we say that the equipment is ready, you can use it take away. Well, it is permissible to go to the front, restore the equipment. They they are really rebuilding there, people are working near the leading edge, and some remain there can be more and more equipment here, and there are not enough people like that way, it comes out, that is, there are exits groups and there are visiting groups that work in purely on trips. Instead of here to work, they go on a trip that we we understand why we can do it there we ride on such disadvantages as it is permissible to pour oil there if it is shallow drain, change the clogged fuel filter, clean quickly so that the car will go further perform tasks, there is no traction in the engine look, maybe it got stuck somewhere replace the air filter, clean it the principle is when you drive on the front you don't understand either, I don't understand what there may be, but I instruct people. To take personal protection with you. That is, repairing a car in a bulletproof vest. Of course, because it is the safety of people, these are my people, if I lose a person, what will I do to say I am a mother. I have to to take care of their personnel - has this happened before? So far, no, I haven't seen anything like this. Let's imagine that this story is watched by potential recruits who want to to join the army, but do not know get into a repair battalion, how to get into a repair battalion? I can give an attitude, to get into the repair battalion not so hard. The main thing is that a person has a desire for technology if they know how to operate the equipment if they've held the keys at least once We provide assistance here; we also teach them. Not everyone comes knowing something they are learning here themselves The guys here are doing repairs everyone came from civilian life. There are contractors, but there are few left now because the beginning of the war showed that Ukraine has heroes, but heroes can die. nu mozhut' zaginuti.What should you have with you? Keys, maybe, I don't know. You need to have yourself, your soul, your body, and free time. Everything you just saw, we openly... They knew it, well, in one day, but overall it took more than a month to prepare the material. And here's why. We wanted to finish this story with a narrative and interviews with the mechanics and drivers whose work you saw earlier in the video. But there was no opportunity to communicate with them because they were injured and spent a long time in rehabilitation. A month has passed, the vehicles have been restored, the guys have undergone treatment, and now we are going to meet them and show you the faces of the heroes. We are looking for the mechanics and drivers. I want to shake your hand; I almost wanted to do this for a month. We were at the repair base, we saw the M, we saw what was wrong with it in general. Listen, if possible... Are you in slippers? - I can change my shoes. If possible. Let's agree, we won't walk around for now. The vehicle is at the exit; we aren't walking around anywhere. I'm really worried about the Spartan at the exit; yesterday... For now, we aren't walking... just wait... Come inside; let's sit for 5 minutes. Because I'm a bit nervous. Are we going back again? Well, if it didn't work out, please tell me about it in general. About the work of these guys, why is it so important? Well, without these guys, nothing works; there's no supply, no people, no transport. It all comes to a halt. Everything, the infantry is left without these guys. Without the guys, the drivers still carry out missions the drivers in pickups. If they stop driving, there will be no ammunition supply, nothing for them. And that's it the war is over. So all the work relies on them. That is, if they don't deliver, they won't get anything. Without the repair battalion, we'll be in trouble. Yesterday, the situation was that the day's drive just wouldn't start in the vehicle. Well, the guys can drive, but they can't repair it. The repair battalion arrived in 15 minutes everything was done quickly and efficiently We're on the road again, without the repair battalion we wouldn't be able to uspikhu tse remontnii batal'ion This repair battalion is crucial to our success. Currently, logistics is taking place here they're delivering everything to the guys. Without logistics, we won't get anywhere. If we primarily lack logistics, we won't have anything. So we're doing our best... The equipment will be fixed, it's just the little things... You're all wet. The cab fell on the turn. And right on the turn, straight into the pickup. Breathe a little... What color was the pickup, green? Direct hit on the pickup? - Right on it. Mechanic, come here, what happened? Well, it was a bit... It got a bit hit. As if it got hit by two of those. And visibility was a bit poor. I think that was our turn? I turned, but that wasn't the one I turned in the field. But I... I see we will soon know every turn here as well as at home in Chasiv Yar. So, is everything fine? Is the mass turned off? Everything's off? Alright, let's go. Please check the vehicle through... We'll check again in the morning look at everything and let's head home. That was a drop from drones. There was a drone in the sky right above us. When you pulled up, were you unloading and the drone? No, I was already driving away from there. You pulled in, unloaded. - Yes. The drone was watching us. The young crew from Chasiv Yar hasn't returned yet they were delivering supplies and everything needed to support the infantry. Now we are standing next to the M that you saw at the repair battalion. These are the same damages that we saw at the repair base, meaning we are identifying the vehicle by its damages. This is it, and here beside us is its mechanic-driver. Friend, could you please come over to us? Let's get to know each other. - I'm Oleg. I'm Ivan, let's maybe stand in the light, normally. We are very... I really wanted to meet you, just to shake your hand because we saw how it works. We know this vehicle we know that your vehicles are constantly under fire. Constantly. Well, they sometimes catch fire, and it can be pretty severe. We are glad when... You crews return regardless of those vehicles, you know, it doesn't matter about those vehicles you keep coming back. How many birthdays have you had already, you know? A lot, actually. Well, this is, in principle, one of the longest-serving vehicles that is still alive. We received it in Kherson. They repaired it a bit in Kherson and got it in order. Well, since that moment, it has been driving around. It has been running in Bakhmut, it has been to Kurdiumivka, and through Kherson. We drove it there a lot, but it often broke down. Here, they repaired it enough so that it could drive normally. So, the vehicle is, in principle, satisfactory; it's better than the Soviet BTR. Did you get injured in this vehicle? I didn't get wounded well, that doesn't count, just a small shrapnel hit near my eye. I was driving in the second vehicle with two mechanics because one of them went on vacation. While they were putting the engine in this vehicle, I got into this one. And they said to leave we need to take the reconnaissance platoon to Chasiv Yar by the water canal. We loaded up and left. We crossed over the ferry. It went fairly normally we got there, though the road isn't great either. So, we unloaded, we were supposed to pick up a sniper, but he wasn't there. He didn't come out, closed the hatch, and went back. On the way back, the FPV hit us on the side and broke the track. And the vehicle stayed there? - Yes, it burned there. So, I walked out from there. Is this the only case where you returned without a vehicle? - The only one... Those cases when it broke down, we managed to pull it out. They invited us for a visit. My mom doesn't know that I'm here; she thinks I'm in a different region. So she wouldn't worry. If she sees this... - It's not advisable. Let's cut that part out somehow. Let's hope she doesn't watch our channel on YouTube. Maybe she'll see it... Have you counted how many trips you've made while serving? A lot. In principle, it's just trips my task is to go, pick up, transport, and deliver. You're 24 years old now, and you appeared in the video at 22 years old, came on March 4 from Poland. I couldn't just sit there. What were you doing in Poland? Well, I went to see what it was like in Poland, abroad, I didn't particularly like it. Then the war started. I think that it would be pointless to just sit around, especially since my guys from urgent service went to fight I thought, why sit? I traveled half of Ukraine to get accepted, but I wasn't taken anywhere. They said there were no places, no uniforms, no weapons. Then finally, I went to Lviv, and they accepted me, saying to go to the 24th brigade. I thought, okay, let's go there. After two years, do you regret coming back from Poland? - No. I immediately got into a unit there and went through some combat medical training, and for weapons, it was maybe two or three weeks of some quick courses, then we moved on. We went to Popasna. Yes, Popasna. We were supposed to enter Popasna with the whole company, but it turned out that our platoon couldn't fit in that group, and we went by bus. After half a day, we were sent after them, and our company was sent right into Popasna, while we were supposed to cover the right flank. That's where I got wounded. Is this already in a vehicle? - No, at that time I was in infantry. That's where I got wounded. In principle, I was evacuated, they treated me, and then I recovered and returned... And then after that. How did you end up as a mechanic-driver? Right after my injury, when I came back, I wanted to be a machine gunner, but they said no, you'll go as a gunner on a BTR vehicle, which is Soviet. I thought, I don't know anything about that. I thought, okay. Then we arrived at the training ground, and they showed us, here's your first lend-lease, and I looked at it, and it didn't seem too bad. I also had a second mechanic... He has already been discharged from service. After his injury, he was discharged, and after him, I became the mechanic-driver. And all this time, is this your vehicle? While others are burning, is yours intact? - So far, yes. We'll see what happens next. But please, tell us about the damage to this vehicle. It still receives hits something flies in, some shrapnel is there along the sides. Often, the tracks would fall off, the wheels would fly apart. The onboard equipment also fails, but overall the vehicle hasn't let me down. A lot of repairs, a lot of damage, but it runs and continues to perform its tasks; it functions normally. The repair battalion is doing its best. And how do you engage reverse? There isn't any other way there's no reverse gear. You can't go backward; you need to move forward. Remember the first time you were under fire with the vehicle? What was it like overall? My hands were shaking because I was the mechanic, and I was sitting in the turret when something flew in near Kherson, and explosions were happening nearby. In general, tell us about the feelings Adrenaline shot up immediately, and then when we arrived, we took a smoke break, relaxed, had some coffee, and everything was back to normal. After that, you get more or less used to it. Basically, all the trips are extreme here's my gunner standing next to me. We were also in Bakhmut, where we treba bulo na dorozi gusianka z tanku valialasia, treba vidtiagnuti, shchob mozhna bulo priyikhati had to pull a track from a tank that was lying on the road--it needed to be dragged out so we could get through So, we stopped and attached the cable... Let's pull it! After driving 2 kilometers, the cable got taut. I was waiting for Andriy to get into the vehicle so we could go and tow it to another place. Just then, they started firing &quot;Grad&quot; rockets at us. Andriy immediately jumped under the vehicle while I was sitting in the hatch, with &quot;Grads&quot; falling nearby. I thought, where's Andriy? He hadn't climbed in yet. Then I climbed out of the hatch to head height and looked to see where he was running up to the front, panting, and said, Pasha, open the ramp for me I can't open the door. My heart is about to explode. That's pretty much what I remember. Everything as usual. We have heroes more often among the mechanic-drivers, and this is the gunner; have you been together long? Since Kherson, I was driving the 711, and he was driving the 712. We were in two different crews in the same company. We have been driving together since... February 4th. February 4th. For a year and a half. Guys, describe overall how an average deployment looks like at Chasiv Yar now in an M113. Well, without good electronic warfare (EW), it's pretty much a one-time deal. If you have EW, you have confidence you can go anywhere. Mortar or shelling isn't that scary when it's not coming at you. Well, it's not the same every time, but you still go, looking at what these Maviks (drones) are like. When we were in Bakhmut, it was much easier. All the drones were at the previous sections of the front, on the frontline supply points they were more or less calm there. But here, the situation has changed. We're slowly getting used to it. Drones have actually changed the course of the war significantly. Even in terms of supply, without support at the frontline positions, it will be much harder. Well, we are trying to figure out how to provide supplies somehow, as long as we can. The main thing is not to stop; the key is speed. You have to get in quickly to unload in up to 2 minutes, well, a minute for the unloading. right now, we are unloading in the forest, more or less. This unloading point has been covered, before we would drive up to a high-rise building. Tam mozhut' i They can drop supplies here, and FPV drones (first-person view drones) too. The occupiers notice immediately when we arrive as soon as we leave Chasiv Yar, drones with night vision cameras detect us right away. We were driving around evening time, and they already know the point and are targeting it they are already zeroed in. And finally, I would like to ask, your deployments--if a civilian person who has absolutely no connection to this were to look at them? Perhaps they wouldn't understand it, but those who have been to Chasiv Yar or other populated areas at least once, when you understand that a drone is flying, and today it fell there, it could have killed you. But you realize that you, somehow, just passed by. Everyone comes to terms with this differently. You understand that every deployment could be the last one. -- yes. So how have you reconciled with this, or haven't you? How do you cope with it? It's very hard. I have armor in my vehicle I crossed myself, prayed, and off we went. I am already an older person; it's time. I sang like... What's the saying?... It gets forgotten over time. Trust in God, but don't slack off yourself.. It gets forgotten... Yes, thank God. So, in Kherson, how many times did you cross the river, crossing the Inhulets. Where the crossing is, that's my least favorite route. -- Why? It's fine, you dive and then come up. It's a very narrow place, uncomfortable. You can't see the crossing nothing was visible at night. With a flashlight, shining from that side, you drive. Now, night vision devices help a bit, but we didn't have that in Kherson. I put on my glasses according to the dimensions of the front vehicle and went after it or drove by myself. But you need to look at the road somehow. Maybe you would like to say something or pass along a message to someone here--perhaps something interesting, a general thought, something that weighs on you, or you want to address someone? Thank God, there's nothing. Health to everyone and that's all. Victory. We must believe and hope that everything will be okay. Thank you very much for your work. I am proud that we have such people. We have people of different ages -- 24 and 54. This is simply different generations. Now we must unite to complete the task we have been pursuing during the two years of full-scale war, and since 2014 there has been war. - I was also in ATO (Anti-Terrorist Operation) in 2015-2016. I've been fighting for a long time. Victory to us all. - Yes. We will hope, we will believe. Faith dies last. Onward.