You have probably heard entropy defined or is that of a college dorm room, which, without ordered&quot; over time. Supposedly the entropy tidy room. This analogy is easy to picture, learn a more accurate description of entropy of spontaneity. This video is part of the Governing Rules the physical and chemical interactions that Hi. My name is John Lienhard and I am a professor at MIT. Today, I'm going to talk to you about entropy, In order to understand the topic of this video, energy is quantized and the thermodynamic After watching this video, you should be able of a microstate. You should also be able to way. First, what do we mean by a spontaneous process? one that will occur without any outside intervention In the world around us, many everyday events them spontaneous. You have observed spontaneous so natural, you may not have taken particular For example, think of an inflated balloon between someone's fingers. Once the person Experience tells us that the gas inside the moving from high pressure to low pressure. until finally, we are left with a deflated is now dispersed throughout the surroundings. You have probably also seen food coloring happens? From experience, you may know that You may also have had some experience removing off of the stovetop hot, we know they will in the pan change color, first as the pan Experience tells us in which direction these processes with which we don't have experience? For example, it would be nice if we had a reaction will happen at given conditions. The 2nd law of thermodynamics can help us The 2nd law of thermodynamics states that entropy change of a system and its surroundings the &quot;universe,&quot; that is, the system plus surroundings, But what is entropy? Is entropy a magical havoc in your office or home? No. Entropy is a measure of the number of possible of molecules. Molecules in a system at equilibrium a given instant in time, it is highly unlikely energy. Molecules in a system are constantly interacting As a result, one molecule may have a certain next; it could have more or less. Depending able to access different energy levels. The total energy of the system, determines molecules. Higher energy levels will not be reach them is not available. So when we say that entropy is a measure of distributed in a system of molecules, we have And the way we do that is by considering the the system. &quot;microstate&quot;. Let's say that you have two dice. What are Pause the video here and take a moment to Okay, you should have a list that looks something macrostates of our system -- the macrostate when we roll them, just the total, or &quot;macroscopic What are all of the possible dice combinations example, we can produce the sum of three by the 2nd die. Or, we can roll a 2 on the first two combinations that will produce the sum The dice combinations that produce the remaining We would call each of these combinations &quot;microstates&quot; gives us information about the individual We see that the most likely macrostate, a microstates. Do you think that the entropy change for the or equal to zero? Please pause the video here and discuss your Let's start with the system first. The transfer in the cold bar to access new energy levels the number of possible microstates for that change for the system is positive. But what about the surroundings? The total entropy of a system and its surroundings Let's use a very simplified diagram to think bars made of the same material. One bar is making up each bar. The hot bar has more energy more than the atoms in the cold bar, which Now, before we put the cold bar in contact separately. In our simplified drawing of the have no energy and one atom has one quantum level, symbolized by the set of curved lines microstates can this system exhibit? distribute the quantum of energy amongst the microstates. have 5 quanta of energy that can be distributed we use some math to see that there are 56 When we brought the two bars in contact in thermal equilibrium. the cold bar (defined as our system) and the and divide the 6 quanta of energy equally tells us that the total of 6 quanta will be Now, how many microstates are now possible As you might have expected, the number of our hot bar decreased, and the number of possible bar increased. change. We will use a relationship for entropy that entropy is equal to a constant, called log of the number of microstates. When calculating entropy change, whether it would be equal to Boltzmann's constant times number of microstates to the initial number The entropy change in our cold bar was positive negative. But remember, it's the total entropy entropy change for this process is positive. hot bar to our cold bar is consistent with If you did a similar calculation for the reverse cold bar to the hot bar, the total entropy is not spontaneous. by our very simplified scenario, calculating can be very challenging. Generally speaking, measurable macroscopic quantities such as However, having a qualitative understanding you properly interpret the entropy changes To Review, for a process to proceed spontaneously, its surroundings must be positive. Entropy can be distributed in a system of molecules. describes the energy of each molecule in a and exchanging energy, this description constantly large number of possible microstates. As we proportional to the number of microstates.