In Paraguay, it's better to swim because, at that time, However, they're still there. This man faces danger so these fish won't stop him especially considering It is not easy, the current is so strong, but I love exercising in the morning. Keeping fit is necessary The Chaco is perhaps one We have already crossed two streets, People think I'm crazy for still going out This trucker is one of the few people As such, his courage has earned him In the Chaco, you have to be able That's why I was given the name Michelin This nickname has stuck, The puncture-proof Michelin. At 67, he is still working Maybe this has to do with the fact Since the age of 17, He sometimes finds it hard to believe Life is so dangerous in the Chaco, The jaguars are never far away. Michelin never goes out Wild animals can appear at any moment. Since I often travel alone here, I always carry something It's just a precaution. It's not easy work, it takes willpower However, I love what I do, Once again, Michelin leaves to collect fertilizer, The region is not conquered easily. Living in the Chaco This wild region and yet there's only one inhabitant More than anything, indigenous tribes, and reckless cowboys. Some fight to prove their strength weighing over 600 kilograms, On the Chaco's roads, but this time, they're mechanical. Fatal machines, which often end up The region's climate is extreme. Depending on the season, the temperature ranges without taking into account We always have problems on these roads. There is no help nearby, It's the Chaco who decides Paraguay is a land of contrasts. Modern cities but odd jobs are always available Some traders even offer you Yet, some people seek to escape the hustle Among the Mennonites, the clock seems They live cut off from the world, We don't have any internet, Our religion forbids them. In the indigenous language, Perhaps because since the 16th century, In the Chaco, When you look at them, yet it is just a facade. You need a good grip For drivers like Michelin, Here, life doesn't give you gifts, It must be said We in the Chaco Finally, as he progresses, It's very difficult here, Usually, it takes Michelin that separate him from Lomo de Plata, However, today is another story, for the rain has transformed The bank is sloped, and if you slip, it's impossible to straighten up. Here you go, it's ruined. He's only gone ten kilometers. It's never easy for me. Every day is a ruthless struggle. I have a lot of children, Seven mouths to feed, In the middle of the afternoon, He'd rather give up here because spending the night I'm going back home, it's not far, I'll go on foot and come back later [Spanish spoken audio] After seven hours of driving, The Chaco region Well, or the maned wolf whose slim body In this forest, the temperature to 50 degrees in summer. The plants have also had to adapt, like the bottle tree whose trunk It serves as a water tank Despite this inhospitable climate, peculiar colonies of men and as a result of their actions, giving way to huge fields. These farmers seem as though they were straight out of an episode It's as if time has frozen Contrary to most Paraguayans, and they all speak a strange dialect. [Spanish spoken audio] More precisely from ancient Germany. We are with the Mennonites, Protestant Christians who originate Mennonites dedicate their life to God Their outfits date from the 18th century, meaning that they are very large, This is my son Georges, he's 17. Juanito, who's five. My wife, and my daughter Elena, who's 15. Margarita, who's 13, It's a big family, right? Yes, when they grow up, They begin at a very young age. From the age of seven, Notably, in order not to depart most orthodox Mennonites, like George, We produce 45 liters of milk We are taught how to milk from childhood. I learned by watching my mother. Group's spirit alleviate the austere way of life. We're going to church. Like every Sunday. George and his community reject anything We don't have any internet, Our religion forbids them. We know that there are bad things What do you mean by bad things? Don't you know? Things that are bad to see. Despite appearances, Their story began in 1536, they refused to participate Threatened with persecution, they fled to Canada, Paraguay is home to the youngest Today, there are almost 30,000 of them. A simple life, to avoid any external signs of richness. Only the pastor is distinguishable. Church is perhaps These women are not in purple for style, Welcoming, yet suspicious, they've forbidden us from filming mass These men and women have all received the same upbringing It's difficult All the settlements Classes are taught in their language, Henrik also teaches Spanish and maths [Spanish audio spoken] School helps us to better believe in God which teaches us We have always done this. Nobody imposes it. We know what to do, and so we do it. [Spanish spoken audio] What is the difference What is the difference? I've never been I only know Mennonite schools, In this village, boys leave school However, times are changing, to enroll in higher education, buy cars, [Spanish spoken audio] The Nuevo Durango settlement However, seeds of change Recently, wooden wheels and Caesar is not pleased. There aren't many of us left Nowadays, lots of Mennonites We are one of the last settlements to respect tradition and travel in carts. Why? Because it's tradition. Those who don't agree can always leave. We are not forcing anyone to stay here. Mennonites are opening themselves up even if they continue Paraguayans have accepted Often in the Chaco, Extreme weather doesn't spare anyone. Michelin, the driver who left his lorry is preparing himself a hearty breakfast This piece is very thick. In Paraguay, we eat a lot of meat. It's traditional Even the poor eat a lot of it. Meat is cheaper than vegetables here. [Spanish spoken audio] Michelin lives with his wife, two daughters, That's seven children [Spanish spoken audio] Maria, his wife, [Spanish spoken audio] When others refuse a job it's always him that they call. Everyone knows he's the only one to go to the Chaco in these conditions. He's really mad. Michelin cannot afford to refuse. He must continue, The previous day, because of the mud, This time, he's retrying Equipped with a 4x4, to pick up his load of grain. The problem is that this truck it doesn't have four-wheel drive. Off-road trucks are expensive, and I can't afford one. I do what I can, Failing a second time is out of question, The chains and the help far from a guarantee which is 260 kilometers away, Gustavo is well aware of that. What scares me is slipping into a ditch because it's really hard to get out. After a few kilometers, It's complicated It frustrates me and tires me out, I'm moving forward, I've never stolen or killed anyone, I have a clear conscience. It's very humid here, This part of the road with water for the next kilometers. The trailer is pulling me. The trailer pulled me in. It'll take a lot of effort The problem is that the trailer and that complicates everything. It's getting difficult. That's an understatement. We'll pull it out with the cable. It's quite dangerous to do it like that. We are not going to do it. You have to stay on the dry side, It's going to move, it is moving. Even with a four-wheel drive, [Spanish spoken audio] It's off. It's too late. Both cars are stuck 200 kilometers Now he's in the ditch. It's at least half a meter deep. [Spanish spoken audio] Six hours of driving It seems that fate Even his neighbor's powerful 4x4 is stuck. The driver is going to have The Chaco's inhabitants can be surprising. No one gives up, Like this driver, for example, His truck is a mechanical wonder. My lorry drives Ruben has made it himself, He has nicknamed it Tumbabus, It's a bus because, I have made it into a Tumbabus, Those who live in the region Ruben's catches a lot of attention, and even though the law he still avoids going through cities If I have an accident, I am violating the official papers. I'm not within the requirements, If I stay on these small roads, but I can't go to the highways. It's very dangerous, For Ruben, making this lorry He's a blacksmith, Now he also makes deliveries, and even though his vehicle he complains when the carts I transport wood, It took him six months to assemble the spare parts of a lorry but it was ten times cheaper It's a Mercedes Benz 113 from 1965. Everything's original: The radiators, The brand's logos are intact, Everything is original We cut the bus's cabin The brakes work half of the time. Ruben has landed However, nothing is going to go to plan. I'm paid 25 euros per load. If I take diesel off that, It's quite hard. Ruben reveals that he's a bit of a thug, However, the owner, has been secretly monitoring You're on private property, I didn't know that No, it's forbidden here. There's a problem, we have to go. Let's leave. For every clever person, Ruben will have to find another stone pit, but that's nothing compared The 4x4 and the truck Dad, the problem This wheel won't come up. If you can't get out, go straight ahead. We have to get through here, if not, the wheels will slip down. Oh, sorry. No, don't apologize. In the Chaco, we don't say sorry, We've worked hard, and now It's now or never. I think that it's going to work You need to come out there, Keep right. My heart is racing at the thought I need to accelerate as much as possible. Two hours of work for nothing. Now they need to rely on a bigger machine However, they don't work With the population it's very hard to come by them, especially since the phone network is, There are a lot of farmers in the area, Some are over 200 kilometers squared, and the cowboys who run them We're at one Around 40 cowboys watch over Eleven thousand animals In Chaco's rainy season, parasites swarm, Like this one with infected ears, However, Pedro wouldn't change a thing. Our work is outdoors. I'm 33, I live alone here, without my fiance. She would really like us to live together, My work is being with animals She really wants me to go back to her However, this job is what counts for me. The cowboys are spread over four farms. It's not incredibly comfortable, a cowboy who eats well is a happy cowboy. So he put a cook on every farm. Don't go looking for simple stews, There is meat on the menu every day They only want meat, they love it. There's boiled meat for breakfast, and deep-fried meat with yuca, It's not a very balanced diet, but they need protein These are to help them ride and make sure Emanuel leads a dozen cowboys, One is that he receives PS600, The other is that he gets a small house My family lives near Filadelfia. I only get to see them I stay with them for two weeks. I miss them, but my children go to school. I've been used to this life, though, I've always got my colleagues for company. We have a lot of work to do and there are lots of little calves. Around 1,000 baby calves The men live together on this huge farm However, soon, all of the Chaco cowboys On the road, Michelin and Roberto so that they can find a farmer Gustavo resigns himself to digging. Georges, it's Michelin. We are stuck just next to your farm. I need help, mate. Ultimately, in the Chaco, time doesn't run The tractor has taken Rescue, nearly. Michelin's truck is completely stuck. There's one method left to try, The 4x4 pulls the tractor, The tractor couldn't pull me out itself, it needed the 4x4's help. That was close. The train was the only thing Without that, The saying is the same all over the world, Michelin is still 100 kilometers away He abandons the effort The conditions are bad for the journey. I don't have a choice, I think the Chaco is for people and not for the weak who are scared. Those people never return. That's just how the Chaco is. Michelin will wait for the rainy season In the Chaco, it's better to use The cowboys don't have any issues Families finally meet up for a weekend who are preparing They compete for the title that is, the best cowboy in the area. Firstly, there is a team showdown. The men have to put cows on the ground, [Spanish spoken audio] They must show off their lassoing ability, [Spanish spoken audio] The main event, taking place at night, the rodeo needs real preparation They take on bulls, or rather, mountains of muscles, The aim is to spend at least Juan is representing his father's farm. His fiancee is not best pleased, and she's got a good reason for it, I'm warming up a bit or my muscles from seizing up. It makes my body a little stronger. Today is my first day, However, hey, I'll see. It's a challenge, Christian doesn't know fear. He's a banker, He's already won I exercise every day, Muscles are the only protection He perfectly recreates the movements. Last year, A bull jumped in the air, However, that wasn't all. I was immobile for several months, The sport requires that. We break bones, tear ligaments, It's very dangerous and you never know However, we are addicted to the adrenaline It's bee resin. It's like glue and it stops your hands from sliding in the reins. Attention, door three will open, and Christian Valverde Since his latest accident, He protects his vital organs Wearing this protection was sensible, as the rider is thrown off [Spanish spoken audio] At eight seconds, I would have won. Unfortunately, I reacted badly and I couldn't keep my balance. Yet I did everything I could. Their posture must be different The cowboys stretch themselves [Spanish spoken audio ] They are all frightened, but being in the saddle They concentrate, and with the adrenaline, Eight seconds is not a long time. However, staying on a beast that weighs between 700 and 800 kilos Few men can reach that time. Now it's Juan's turn. It's his first time but he wants to do it He wants to do it the American way, Yes, I'm nervous. Is this beginner's luck Juan has managed the eight seconds. [Spanish spoken audio] It's easier than I imagined. I thought that this bull but it wasn't as nervous as the others. The other cowboys had it worse than me. I liked it, but that's enough for today. In contrast to last year, [Spanish spoken audio] Here are some calmer cows, For the time being, but when going downhill, Carried by the weight of the carts, and at that point, and have a few extra hands [Spanish spoken audio] It's quite dangerous, look out. The cows slip, It's a big problem, so I help them down. Two weeks before Christmas, hundreds of teams It will be okay, stay calm. Hernaldo has been doing Every year, we visit There are 150, even 200 of us, We carry on the tradition with others, Three hundred thousand believers The history dates back when an indigenous Paraguayan sculptured the statue of the Virgin to thank her Since this day, Paraguayans attribute Hernaldo has never seen a miracle, We believe in the Virgin, With the protection of the Virgin Mary, [Spanish spoken audio] We must show our sufferings to the Virgin. We are asking Ill people come here to make a wish. Some people have cancer, [Spanish spoken audio] We are contributing Some people are poor, We collect money for them. Pray for us sinners now and at the hour of our death, Amen. Each person is waiting for a sign, However, all Paraguayans are what they achieve