So in the Greek times people were very interested in regular polygons, and in geometry. It was the dawn of geometry, really And they wanted to construct as many polygons as they could But regular, all the sides are the same length all the angles the same They where very interested in constructions with ruler and compass alone. Here's a good compass Ruler meant just a straight edge No markings on it at all. This one has markings but I'm gonna use it anyway. I won't use the markings. Here's a nice circle, drawn with a compass, in the old style So if I pick a point in the circle, I'm gonna draw a hexagon In a way that everybody will know, who has ever played with ruler and compass I'm keeping the compass length the same as it was for the original circle. Oops, ran out of ink there There we are. All the circles pass very nicely trough the center, showing that I haven't changed the width of the compass And now I have six marked points on the circumference of the circle And if I want to I can put lines through them and I'll get a beautiful regular hexagon Make the lines longer looks even nicer Ruler and compass constructions are something else. There we are, a beautiful hexagon. And of course if I just connected three of the points, like these three, I would get a regular triangle. If I have any line, I can divide it in half with ruler and compass alone. Think that's worth doing just to show So suppose I have line and suppose I have a couple points that were already marked on it and I want to construct the midpoint of perpendicular line through the mid point. And I make some pieces of a circle on each side and I look at the places where this circle meets them and then if I connect those two points I get a perfect perpendicular bisector of this segment. So the the ancients knew how to do a triangle and a hexagon the way I did it. They knew how to do a square 'cos you can make these perpendicular lines and that makes it easy to do squares. They knew how to do a pentagon. That's a little more complicated and that's all they knew. They could put but for instance you know what's the 6, 7 right, can you do seven? No one could say. And they asked can we do this? Is it possible to construct a 7-gon or a 9-gon, or anything else anything else at all other than the ones you can get by taking or five or three times five, or dividing those things by two you can divide again to get like a 30-gon or a 60-gon that's all easy once you have a 15-gon. It was an for two thousand years people played worried about that and then something with the rest of mathematics that often happens in mathematics when, when a problem gets connected to something else it becomes actually this fell to a prodigy, a pimply Carl Friedrich Gauss in 1796 what he did initially was just to prove regular 17-gon with ruler and compass and later on he'd analyze the problem and said exactly what you can construct that Gauss proved it was possible but if I really then you'll be very disappointed because and that's just because the little are so many little constructions to make and they're all really easy but by the and so I might construct a 15-gon [instead of a] 17-gon there's my circle so I wanna ... I would like to so here goes the first thing I'm gonna do a diameter. So the next step will be to a perpendicular bisector of this diameter. Maybe I'll do one one such construction just so I'm not I know where one point is already the center, so I don't have to draw that then the other. I guess I want it to go on fro a while. Okay you know I can divide things in half with ruler and compass so I'm gonna divide them in half and I'm just going to do it by eyeball. We but it gets tedious after a while. And then I want to divide each of these segments in half too That's a half, and maybe that's a half, like and then I get a draw another line do that with that the real ruler through and then I'm going to do something I'm gonna draw a circle which has this radius this is half the length of the radius. This radius and based at that this quarter mark (a little more ink in there) get it in the hole, and I'll draw this semi-cirle. Now I'm gonna draw a couple more lines. This construction is a lot of lines and it's really quite easy. Brady: Do you enjoy this? I don't know why but its like origami or something it's very very precise craft stuff and it does something beautiful. Gonna draw that line I'm gonna draw this line. I'm gonna divide them both So you know I can do that, I'm gonna do it by you know I could. So I want that quarter and I want this quarter and I want this one, there's a half, and this one Alright, and now I'm gonna draw some more lines point of intersection and through points and I'm interested in where they there's a fundamental point that's gonna be and then another okay so now I have these two important on this line marked and I'm gonna draw I'm gonna do something funny, I'm gonna bisect from this point to the edge it's about hmm, maybe I'll do that accurately and I'm gonna draw a circle whose centre's at that midpoint and whose radius is this it'll be inside the circle like that. I'm interested in this point, by the way, where my circle meets this line. And I'm gonna draw a tiny little circle around the center point with radius this So now I have another circle and what I want is the line joins them there and now I'm gonna draw a circle which is centered at this funny point and this radius so one more circle we're almost there Prof: I'm getting a little tired of it to tell you the truth and the crucial thing is where it meets this line okay now we are ready you might say well where's the ... where's and I have to draw out a perpendicular to this diameter which meets at that point and another one here and a line here. If I had little more energy at this point I'd use the compass, but what I'm and corresponding point here now you might if you're looking really hard that's not a 17th of the circle and in Or it would be if I had done everything exactly right so I have one more division to do I draw this line I divide it in half and I get a point about here I would say that's the point and now I have my 17th of a circle, finally. By drawing this radius One radius, and two radius So this distance, from here to here, is supposed to be a 17th of the circle. Now just for fun and you may have to go off camera for this Brady let's see how how close I came Prof: now I would say I didn't get quite halfway between 'cos I estimated that too ... three ... ... nine ... ... ten ... there's another and another, well, gee, I'm it seems it's close to a multiple, and a last one. Brady: what did you make? What -gon have you made? 16, 17, 18, 19, 20 21 so I made a 21-gon by accident an impossibility so it went wrong its I think probably not even a tried to use the compass at every time and done it as accurately as I could. things little errors would have built up but um its provably the right thing if let's see how'm I doing? so this is 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, Here's 16 and then since it's a 17-gon maybe it should connect this way Brady: (laughing) what can you do? we used to have the address 1000 because really we are actually a small and Centennial Drive is the big road that's well was not a problem for us but it was our neighbors are the Silver space lab and they build satellite experiments for NASA and so along with some delivery or to pick up an experiment and there was so they would rumble right on by and that was a continual source of trouble for them so they finally convinced the University the one who owns the land to and they had some idea that I didn't star whose colors were blue and gold I forget the name the star actually and I mathematicians won't know it won't mean it is said to my colleague maybe we should Gauss would be perfect because he was both and he ran the ducal Observatory in the town where he was, so he would be and my colleague at the time said oh you you think he was an astronomer but the and I went over to the director the think we oughta name it after some famous he looked at me kinda surprised he said so that was a done deal right away and then they were very generous they you you been nice to us you can have and I said no we don't want number one because that represents Gauss's first and we very much about youth in mathematics and the success of post-docs and things like that cultivating young talent so we got to be and on our front doors instead a number we put the construction the 17-gon that I've just showed you.