These websites have had massive growth competitive online niches. The best part? They all use the exact same SEO strategy. The strategy goes something like this: find low rank for these topics which will build both your and bankroll to progressively go after more until your site is so authoritative that And then all you have to do is kick back, of your labor. Now, while this may sound like pure bliss, finding low competition keywords But the solution to this problem is in this box. Now, we have four items here: we have a notebook, and this toy rabbit. All of these items play a significant role And while they hold little utility on their own, do with ingredients for a recipe, the end result help you find low and sometimes even And I'll prove to you this works as we head This wheel contains some of the most It's got everything from gambling to insurance Let's give this a spin and whatever niche it to find low competition topics with business potential. And there you have it, folks. Credit cards and personal finance it is. Back to the box. Now, the first item I want to talk This book right here is special. It holds the secrets to everything It shows our product roadmap, the technical in all of SEO land, and it even holds the secrets This book is laser-focused on And if you want to experience the goodness then your keyword selection strategy should product and business. Now, let's put the notebook to the side and A bag of seeds. So it looks like this bag is full of Both are edible. Both are delicious. But both are pretty ordinary. Now, if you dig into this bag, These are hemp seeds. Not everyone has tried them. They don't look as appetizing, they don't taste they contain omega 6 fatty acid, and provide and sunflower seeds unfortunately Hemp seeds are unique and for And in the same way, using unique seeds penetrate SERPs in competitive niches. These are what will help you find low For example, if I gave you five seconds to and personal finance niche, chances are, two seed keywords. We'd search them in a keyword research tool ideas report, and set some keyword difficulty branded queries where our site And even if we did rank, we wouldn't be able queries because you can't help people The reason why there are barely any good low competitors all did keyword research They went after the low competition keywords and Now, if you do this exact same process but end up with very different results. And the fastest way to find unique So I'll type: &quot;give me 20 words or And in a second or two, you have a whole Ask for more... and there you have it. Now, if you clean up some of these seeds, Ahrefs Keywords Explorer, then go to a Keyword did before, we actually have some good content capital one,&quot; &quot;cash advance apps that don't use with a 650 credit score,&quot; and there's actually so to sift through the results. Now, whether these keywords have &quot;high&quot; you do as a business. But in my opinion, these topics seem pretty mortgage companies and even general info sites. Alright, so you have these low competition unique seeds and your trusty notebook ensures and product. But stopping here would be a huge mistake can do for you. While this might look like a classic game for identifying and playing off of patterns. And once you identify that pattern... Beating the competition is quite easy. Crushed! So, looking back at our keyword ideas report pattern do you see here? That's right! We have some very low competition More specifically, these And if we look at the top-ranking pages for one about whether that credit So, let's start a new search in Ahrefs' Keywords and &quot;credit scores.&quot; Then let's go back to the Matching Terms report. Now, to find specific credit score keywords with And all I'll do is add &quot;*0 , *5.&quot; And what the asterisk will So let's hit the Any word tab and apply the filter. Finally, I'll set a keyword difficulty score with a low And now we have over 1,500 low competition around 200,000 searches in just the US in the online and offline world. But we're not done yet. In fact, we've only begun our work here because Not me - this one. Meet Sam. She loves organic carrots from the grocery store. And she loves long walks in the woods. But there's nothing she enjoys more than We need to let our curiosity lead us down that have experienced the sweet, sweet nectar have probably gone all in and found a whole driving business value for them. So, all you have to do to uncover these untapped follow the rabbit hole. Here's how it's done. First, you're going to need a list I made a list of a hundred or so keywords Next, you'll want to paste that list of keywords into Then, I'll go to the Traffic Share by Domains that get the most search traffic based on websites that have already done this Now, because there's going to be a mix of export the list and take it into a tool like Ahrefs' metrics for up to 200 sites at a time. The last thing I'm going to do is sort the which is a score that represents a website's authority. And now all you need to do is this. Look at the DR column along with the Traffic column. If you notice a low authority website that gets a then fixate your eyes to the domain name. If the domain name looks like a relevant niche For example, &quot;cain mortgage team&quot; Click it - and yes, it is. Mortgages are another insanely competitive niche. And if your site happens to be about personal worth following. So, I'll take that mortgage site's domain and the Top Pages report to see the pages And I'm pretty sure that we've just uncovered much house can i afford with a 60k salary&quot; Sift through all the topics and add And when you're done, go back to Batch and do the exact same thing. And if you run out of competitors, go back Look for patterns in your For example, this topic of &quot;how much house So let's go back to Keywords Explorer and Hit the Matching terms report and let's set And we now have even more low competition Now, follow those rabbit holes and in the end, strategy that can help kickstart your growth Then you need to go and create content that's And this will again, build your bankroll and help site's authority. Then rinse and repeat, rinse and repeat. And when that day comes where you remember the guy on the grass.