Thanks to World of Warships for sponsoring The Kursk Disaster When it was commissioned in 1994, the nuclear most powerful assets of the Russian Navy. The size of two jumbo jets, it was considered lurking beneath the surface. In August 2000, for its crew, the mammoth coffin lying on the bottom of the sea, with Kursk was designed to be a hunter, never a With its mighty arsenal of cruise missiles specifically to destroy NATO aircraft carrier August 10th, 2000, Kursk joined the 'Summer-X' the port of Murmansk. This was the first large-scale naval exercise Beside some of the largest Russian vessels and battlecruiser Pyotr Velikiy included thirty of smaller vessels. Newly elected president Vladimir Putin was one of the mightiest forces in the world. On the morning of August 12th, Kursk was tasked with dummy torpedoes. As the Northern Fleet turned toward Kursk, Everyone was expecting Kursk to emerge victoriously, post-Soviet naval catastrophe was unfolding. It seemed unbelievable that a submarine like After all, Project 949A Antey, NATO codename submarines in the world. Designed by the Soviet Union's Central Design in Severodvinsk Port in 1992. Named in honor of Soviet victory in the legendary 1994, commissioned into the Russian Navy's Division of the 1st Submarine Flotilla. Everything about Kursk was gigantic. 154 meters it displaced 24,000 tons when submerged. Two nuclear reactors propelled the submarine, with two turbines delivering 49,000 horsepower Kursk was armed with 24 P-700 "Granit" Besides Granit missiles, Kursk also carried The submarine had ten watertight compartments Its outer hull was made of 8 millimeter steel of rubber [3 inches]. The inner hull was much more robust and built inches]. The construction was so strong its designers a torpedo. When on August 12, 2000, Kursk sank, it happened constructors could have ever imagined. There hadn't been the slightest hint that On the contrary, everyone aboard the K-141 The morale was high, with 118 personnel on The Kursk crew was awarded the title of the Their submarine was indestructible! There was nothing on earth that could go wrong. As mentioned, the "Summer-X" exercise Kursk was supposed to show what it was made The submarine joined the exercise on August A massive shoot-out from all vessels took Kursk showed its muscles by launching a Granit Two days later, the submarine commander, Captain for another exercise task, attacking the Pyotr A dummy Type 65 "Kit" torpedo was to be These torpedoes were powerful enough to sink That morning of August 12th, at 8:51 am, Captain torpedo training launch, which the HQ approved. Lyachin ordered his men to prepare the first Kursk had its periscope lifted and had a target At 11:29 am, sailors at the torpedo compartment tube on the starboard side. Back at the North Fleet HQ, staff overseeing of the hit but received nothing but silence. However, the hydroacoustics at Pyotr Velikiy They reported a signal similar to an underwater A few minutes later the ship's entire hull a powerful signal. The Fleet HQ was immediately informed, but Before we unravel what happened at Summer-X, World of Warships is a team-based sea battle With over 44 million players, it is an incredibly you to not only use different strategies and in division. This game features over 400 historical ships with unique living landscapes. But that's not all, you are in complete control way you see fit. There are five classes: destroyers, battleships, Each one having their own exclusive perks. Imagine with Godzilla as a commander of your Nobody is stopping you. What about the incredible characters from from Big Hunt? When you download World of Warships through and use the code FIRE when registering, 200 doubloons, 1 million credits, a tier 5 20x restless fire camouflage, Now that is a steal. Now go check out World of Warships and battle For the next two hours that the firing exercise strange happened to the Kursk. There was no report about the course of exercise Only at 13:30, when the scheduled exercise Alekseyevich Popov aboard Pyotr Velikiy sent result. Finally, when Kursk didn't appear on the over, the fleet commander began to suspect In the upcoming hours, Kursk failed to send That was a signal to look for the submarine. At 17:30, Fleet's search and rescue team The North Fleet commander sent reconnaissance Half an hour before midnight, the Northern to an accident on a nuclear submarine K-141 The exercise was stopped, and all vessels the night. Locating a sunk submarine should not be difficult, rescue buoys. In case of any kind of emergency, these buoys to the surface, signaling nearby ships about The problem with Kursk was that the buoy was Luckily, at 04:50 am on August 13, Pyotr Velikiy's Rescue ship Mikhail Rudnitsky arrived at the vehicles called DSRV. The inspection of the seabed at the site began At 18:30, one DSRV hit an unidentified object Just before the vehicle started rising to stern stabilizer of a submarine. Kursk was found. The vessel was lying on a seabed at a depth angle and down 5-7 degrees by the bow. Footage from a deep-water camera showed the sail. Now, a struggle began to attach DSRVs to an Judging by the scale of the damage, there accident. But, if there were survivors, the ninth compartment For six days, Russian DSRVs contested harsh Unfortunately, the Russians failed to do so The rescue hatch was so damaged that it made A number of foreign countries offered Russia in Moscow refused them all. In the meantime, Russian authorities tried On August 13, Northern Fleet commander, Admiral missing and presented the exercise as a complete However, rumors of something going wrong reached They gathered at the Northern Fleet HQ, demanding Finally, on August 14, Popov gave in and informed difficulties&quot; and had been forced to descend He lied, though, that communication was established the oxygen and electricity to them via special The truth was all the attempts to reach the On August 17, five days after the accident, foreign offers to help. Two days later, the Norwegian ships Normand the British rescue sub LR5. The Norwegian divers immediately got to work, to the escape hatch. The Russians feared that foreign divers could The Norwegians strongly protested. All their effort would be futile if they could They ultimately reached a compromise: Norwegian only Russian divers could enter it. On August 21, nine days after the sinking, hull with the help of a special high-velocity The Russian divers entered the sub through In the 9th, the rearmost compartment, they These had been the last survivors of the Kursk. A message found in the pocket of Captain-lieutenant of their lives. I am writing blindly. The time is 13:15. All personnel from sections six, seven, and There are 23 people here. We made this decision because none of us can It's too dark to write here, but I'll It looks like we have no chance, maybe 10-20 I hope that someday someone will read this. Don't despair. The sailors lived for some time after the A later investigation discovered that they canisters. As a result, the last drops of oxygen that On the same day that divers entered the submarine, Fleet, Vice Admiral Mikhail Motsak, announced aboard the Kursk had survived the accident. Northern Fleet commander, Admiral Vyacheslav for forgiveness. But the victims' families were furious. Not even President Putin and his address could ones. Families were unsatisfied with how the Navy them, and, after all, they demanded to know Already on August 14, the Russian authorities Kursk. Fleet Admiral Vladimir Kuroyedov claimed that a collision with a NATO submarine. The Russians knew NATO subs were shadowing They claimed that either USS Memphis or USS entered the restricted area, collided with For a moment, it seemed as if the Cold War The U.S. Secretary of State rejected the claims, a scenario did not happen but also that it First of all, it was unlikely that USS Memphis, could have damaged Kursk without suffering Besides, Kursk was designed to withstand the smaller submarine would not cause such severe Seismic measurements picked up by a station something else. They detected an initial seismic event in 11:29:34. Then, at 11:31:48, they recorded a second larger. Both measured shock waves were typical for So, was it a torpedo that sank Kursk? If a NATO submarine didn't collide with sank the Russian submarine with a torpedo? The official report released by the Russian It was a torpedo that sank Kursk, but not It wasn't from a friendly sub, either. Kursk was sunk by its own torpedo! The Type 65-76A "Kit" torpedo that Kursk from the early 1970s. It was designed to attack and destroy American vessels. It was a powerful torpedo, with a drawback Type 65 torpedoes were fueled with hydrogen Being an oxidizer, hydrogen peroxide combined Type 65 torpedoes a range of up to 100 km. The problem with hydrogen peroxide is that catalysts such as copper or bronze. Such contacts may cause spontaneous combustion. That was exactly what happened with Kursk. A dummy torpedo that was to be used for practice peroxide to leak out and react with copper The torpedo burst into flames, causing the hydrogen peroxide and 500 kilograms [1,100 The resulting fire in the torpedo section combat-ready torpedoes each with 450-kilogram This second explosion blew off the entire the Kursk to the bottom of the sea. The blast was so powerful the seismic stations registered it. The first explosion should have been contained second compartment if a pressurized valve But the valve was left open, allowing the instantly killing everyone in the control That explains why no distress signal was sent As for the emergency rescue buoy, its failure year prior. At the time, Kursk was shadowing U.S. Navy Fearing that the buoy might reveal their presence, put back to work. Luckily, the fifth compartment where nuclear As a result, both reactors shut down automatically, Sailors who loaded dummy torpedoes in the a faulty weld. Junior officers to whom they reported the preparing the vessels for the exercise. If only they had followed the strict procedure have probably been avoided. Along with the issue of hydrogen peroxide &quot;stunning breaches of discipline, shoddy, as well as &quot;negligence, incompetence, and Despite the accusation brought in the official Instead, he stated that a technical malfunction Needless to say, the decision infuriated the They knew their loved ones died because of going to pay for it. In October-November 2000, divers recovered The rest of them remained trapped inside Kursk In October, 2001, fourteen months after the from the seafloor and transferred it to the Inside the wreckage were the bodies of the One hundred and eighteen brave men paid the even when the country failed to take proper If you found the story of the Kursk Disaster Don't forget that if you use the code FIRE, you can get access to all of the features Be sure to check it out. Subscribe to see when my next documentary Until then, you can take a look at this episode