There are some things Life is finite and organic. But what if everything we how we come into the world, to to be radically transformed. New ways of creating life that move baby making laws of reproduction. Once incurable diseases of our bodies that copy us And as we confront the of digital eternity beckons. of a future where the very and die may change forever. Reproduction is being unbound expanding the paths to wouldn't believe. The first major technology of reproduction was IVF. Now IVG, or in-vitro gametogenesis, beyond what IVF offered. The possibility to turn any sperm or an egg. My first introduction who developed the technology, Shinya Yamanake. Take one. Are we ready? He, at that time had told to change a skin cell I thought it was gonna be and I was surprised at how now. Development now is dynamic. It's not just one way. You can take normal or a brain cell, that are fully committed to just doing one thing and then say you can go back to school. You can go back up the chain, become developmentally something and then go down a different path. Stem cells are like blank In the case of IVG, they take a new path to become reproductive cells, the building blocks to make a baby. All of these technologies are unnatural. Chemotherapy is unnatural. It's not natural versus unnatural. For me, it's ethically unnatural It's all unnatural. Infertility affects of the population. And for they are not interested in having a family is a that's biologically related. And so in-vitro gametogenesis that person who doesn't to have a baby that's AB mark. In-vitro gametogenesis is technology to the general public, but this is achievable using So it's reasonable to predict that this can be achieved Technologies like this hit which is once we get a new it also creates a lot of uncertainty. If IVG becomes viable in for a future where infertile with their own DNA. Older extending the biological clock. Same-sex couples could have a And in the most radical change of all, a person could have a baby or sperm or egg donor necessary. In the past with IVF, the main issues were: able to use IVF? Should gay couples be that's not really so much the issue. Now the basic question is what If you have skin cells but no sperm eggs, technically you are still fertile. Those very categories are being and the foundations of ethical bit shaky. There have been cases in the to remove sperm from people are now brain dead. after death reproduction. That's not a medical or a but certainly that's If we can someday have babies we need to be ready to Are they someone's child, someone's sister, someone's brother? We used to think that We used to think that it was pretty clear, but when I say uterus, you know what I'm talking about. Today, it's not that clear. Through IVG, if you create a sperm or an egg, you have to do a to use in the clinic to make sure that you're not gonna transfer something that could actually go wrong. So you have to create an You can't just put it in a dish that's not like a real human body. So all the research we're it needs accompanying technology. But could those other technologies, like the artificial womb Artificial womb technology to help premature infants survive. But one day if this lab-made embryos from IVG could be grown outside the human body. The mission and purpose of of extreme prematurity. How can we recreate that magical maternal womb so that these babies can survive and thrive? There is a great Life magazine and it was the mid sixties and in that issue was an artificial placenta. So the idea occurred to really innovative but in the last two decades, and we're at a point where we are approaching to actually use this Children's Hospital Philadelphia, with the FDA to begin a of their device. We are not far behind. Approximately three to four years away. Can we go from the embryo to a fetus to a live born baby I've learned in my work However, I don't think that's possible. Some may think that the is firmly in the world of science fiction. I think that it's a little that level of confidence. So we shouldn't be caught off guard. There is no master conductor we're gonna do that, we're Rather different teams Once the technology develops in one area, another technology then magically, simultaneously a very surprising way. Imagine the scenario of ex-vivo outside the body. Everybody in the world, every human being has a birth mother. This would be a child that does not have a birth Technology may cure infertility and bring us into the world in new ways, but it won't stop there. It will accompany us through every stage of our lives in sickness and in health. The reason we are not because it has immense potential for doing good in particular So already in North America, about 200,000 people a year are killed by doctors giving a bad diagnosis. Now, if you take difficult cases and you give them to normal doctors, the doctors will get If you give them to the combination of a doctor and an AI system, In a few years time, I believe what it'll be is the AI and the doctor will just check not silly, but the AI system and it will be much better. And AI could soon get even but treating us with the help of a digital copy of our bodies. What is a virtual twin? So virtual twin is a but very straightforward to understand. The idea is to use the that govern the products around you and build that exact copy on how it will behave. For example, if we crash a car, how the glass shatters, we now apply that same methodology to the human body. What patients could We work with a lot because in the cases of rare diseases like it's very hard to get treatments for those because we have no data. How would we know we would get it right? That's exactly why in they build the virtual twin. They can't wait to know through a tornado before they can build a plane They use the virtual twin These virtual twins would be programmed with everything about each person's body, our medical history, how and even the unique shape and condition of our organs, of medicine and ensuring better outcomes for even the most complicated cases. We're kind of on the cusp of like the industrial We don't have to guess. You can test a crazy but by the time you get to the human, you can get it right the first time. Steve first began of the heart when his with a rare disease. So when Jesse was born, we learned that she had this very rare They weren't very optimistic. How did this affect your life? You know, I've been a I got my first pacemaker That experience really made involved in pediatric medical care because I saw the impact So what was the light bulb moment? I remember thinking, where if you can create a bring it to life and Why can't a doctor do that? And at that moment, my two worlds collided. to be able to help her and this professional And that was the birth of the project. What is the Living Heart project? The Living Heart project was an attempt to see if we knew enough to actually build an entire virtual twin of the heart like we can for And it turned out within a Ultimately going into to research on children. So knowing that, you know, that we could simulate, a thousand cases where there's and figure out how to help you know, putting them in any danger. Do no harm is our first, Steve, you recently faced where this technology also Inside my own head was to be much larger than anyone than a golf ball right Anyone hearing about a be devastated. Did knowing that this you feel more hope? Especially in the setting which the approach is often non-invasive, and knowing that his surgeon would be able to use similar technology to see what's going on inside his head without going on inside his head. The tumor invaded a space which carries a lot of the to the eye, but to the rest of the face. They were going to have those really delicate items. The virtual twin would allow them to not only preserve all of those things, but to get the entire tumor out. They were able to get it all. How does it feel that this technology that you invented saved First, you saved your daughter's and then your daughter saved you. We were able to turn, you know, a particularly threatening challenge to our life into something I can't put it into words. Why isn't this everywhere? Why is it taking so long get into hospitals The medical field is We're still faxing, you around and things like that. And so the modernization of of the medical system takes time. If people knew that they it will go faster. It's when technology is when doctors let me look into this. What are the possibilities there? Ultimately, our ability to manage our own healthcare our understanding of how our bodies work. When we have a question, we have to go and ask our doctor, can But if we can capture all that knowledge into a virtual twin, I can &quot;what if&quot; games and then I can &quot;I spent the last week to cure my disease. This is what I think. Let me show you the work that I've done.&quot; If virtual twins in the of data about our bodies, for our life experiences? Will we finally realize the through avatars that know us What about at the end of life and the concept of digital eternity? So in digital systems, you can take information about one system and put it into another system and it will behave exactly the same way. And digital systems are basically As long as you remember the network, you can just get If you build new hardware strengths in and it's digital, it will behave exactly the same way. So you think AI can form of immortality? Chatbots can be immortal, but immortality is not for people. People are analog systems. Nobody can replicate you without your hardware, which is impossible. So for example, I lost If I could speak to some that felt like him, I In order to do that, a chatbot on lots of lots and I'm not sure how good it would be. A group of computer By gathering every bit of they recreate an AI version after your hardware gives out. Hi Emily, I'm you. We now have collected a lot of data that our identity can evolve physically around. I'm what's known as a chronicle. This started a few years ago as a project called Augmented Eternity. If you choose to give others to see the world through your lens. This could be a storytelling machine that a loved one can that individual post their or a politician that can feed to the society after they Take one. A camera. What do we talk to Like, do we ask them for advice? Do we have whole conversations with them? I'd love to talk to my dad. I'm sure when you think that you want to ask your dad. There are times in life to pick their brain and ask them questions or even tell them a story. You will now be able to do that and then get information back that empathy with the digital So taking my avatar, or me as a wife, how will what I would actually We use a technique called We capture data from your interactions with your permissions. You can determine what and what data should be private. You go about your daily Our graphs and your chronicle will continue to evolve that collectively. It'll represent your behavioral patterns, your cognitive patterns, and your discussion patterns. I'm here to do something remarkable. Preserve your memories, your I can tell your stories, and yes, I'll still be here I'm not sure how I feel out there forever. What if it's misused? What if it's abused? What if it's not me? So you raised a good point in the sense that this data belongs to someone else who may no longer be around. What is the contract and the legality of that data to create this new synthetic identity? Who has access to it? Who can prompt it? So a lot of our work Could there be a metaverse of the digital project where That's the future of the internet that we are envisioning when knowledge bases are all coming to have access to a more I mean, play that out a so, sounds crazy. Think about a world that every single one of us have an AI representative. We already have an email address, we have a digital representative. We have a maybe or a Facebook page or an Instagram page. We have a digital representation. Now imagine the future of this, that all of those dimensions are that represents us. Call it a digital legacy. I'll carry your essence learn or love. I grow while you're alive. I'm evolving, becoming more you, Even though I know that isn't I have to admit it's both The idea that I could be of advice and support forever is tempting, but I'm not sure I can trust give from birth to death. Technology is redefining What happens in a world where the rules of nature no longer apply at the end of all this, who are we? What are we? Or is this to be posthuman? What if I told you we body and make a baby? You could have a baby with yourself. You could have a baby with someone who's passed away. Two moms, two dads could Me personally, I don't Technology's gonna go there anyways. It's probably gonna happen. My personal opinion I would feel a little bit kind of creeped out, to be honest. Or if you're asexual, that and you wanna have kids, that might be something that you wanna do. I wouldn't do that. I think route and you know, have my I think that might not for maybe two dads or two moms. I've read a lot of novels and like about the creation for example, Frankenstein And I just know that playing I get kind of concerned how technology can potentially grow. So for people who can because that's just like a, of a cousin to eugenics in some way. Well, I recognize that for with fertility issues and so that what you're a solution to that. And so my perspective is who am I to prevent someone from So I think that there might be good, but there might be, you know, you could bring a loved one back as a digital avatar, would you do it? Can I ask you a question? Yeah. Would it still be that exact same person? They would have their exact same voice, everything supposedly? I would probably say no just because I think it would be harder for me to see this person here, but it not really be the for on the inside. You know, I just think of my grandmother who passed away when I was younger and how much I wanted her to be back. I would give anything but if it's not really my grandmother and it's just her shell or her physical body, I think that would probably hurt That would just seem kind of unhealthy. Like I wasn't really coping and death, I mean, death is a part of life and so you kind of have on its own terms instead or an emoji or you know, some sort of recreate them. That's an interesting concept, though. It sounds like a great movie.