Welcome back to the gentleman's Gazette! In today's video, we discuss how to spot an the 15 hallmarks to help you identify them. No, I'm not talking about fit, if you want please check out this series here. In the same vein, if you want to learn how check out this video. One, take a look at the label. A suit label can tell you a lot. Whether it's a brand that produces off-the-rack if you know the brand, you know exactly what For example, for Ralph Lauren, there is Ralph line and the most expensive one, black label fit, Polo Ralph Lauren is again less expensive from Ralph Lauren which is really low end. On the other hand, double RL has kind if a expensive. So understanding the brands that you're interested in identifying an expensive suit. If you're into vintage quality, if you're suits at tailors. Now sometimes these come from different countries. Now if it says custom tailor or bespoke tailor, Also, the address can help if something says Milan, you know it comes from an expensive On most bespoke suits, you cannot see the on the inside pockets. Don't be fooled if you can't find any composition suits won't tell you what fabric it is, made of, so if you've looked inside the pockets find any care labels, or material labels, The second thing you can look at is the rounded On a custom-made suit such as this one, the so they wear not prematurely, you will see which is where most companies do it, however, or at the ends of the sleeves. Of course, that alone it's not a quality hallmark you that the rest is of high quality as well. The third thing to look in detail is a so-called It's a slight stitching along the edge of able to make my hand so back in the day, you it was a quality suit and it was gone it wasn't. Because of that, some nifty Germans developed a stitch that looks like handmade from afar You can really spot it when you turn it around Traditionally, a suit from England, or let's was only noticeable upon closer inspection; more flashy pick stitching and usually, you collar all the way down the front quarters. Sometimes, you can also find pick stitching and if you encounter that, you know it's a that's done on inexpensive garments. Four, look at the stitching on the inside, of handwork in it, that means, the lining You can check it on the sleeves, you can check and you can look at the little details and stitch. The character of a hand stitch is that is flexible than a machine stitch and because look better and feel more comfortable. In the same vein, when you have the suit in and look for little pick stitching in the That is done when you have a interlined canvas desirable. On a cheaper suit, you get flat ironed lapels Sometimes, you can see the stitching very feel it and slight dimples from the back but is too fine or it's the same color, or it's High-end expensive suits should always have is all sewn. There should be no glue involved, not even To learn more about that, please check out Five, look underneath the collar. Pop open your collar and look carefully how A cheaper or inexpensive suit, will be machine will be hand sewn. With little practice, you can determine what irregular stitches. Oftentimes, you see finer stitches sometimes collar is usually with a triangle stitch or and not flexible. The sixth thing to look at is pattern matching. A high-end suit will have a match pattern. It's easiest to check that if you have let's check with an over plaid, or a striped suit. On a solid suit, it's hard to see that skill match. On a suit like I'm wearing right now with very high-end, they don't pay that much attention to distinguish it, however, on a striped suit, for example, in the front, if the flaps line a very high-quality suit. Some tailors even line up the stripes in the gorge which is the part between the collar Now, you can have an expensive suit that doesn't side of the pants for example, you should On top of that, the back of the suit should you have a windowpane, it should be aligned So these are all good points to look at, the they're usually matched. On the cheaper ones, they're definitely not. Seven, look at the buttonholes. A high-end expensive suit will always have If they're machine made, they should be of have maybe a gimp on them, and you can sometimes it's a hand stitch buttonhole. How can you identify one? Turn it on the backside and you will see a it looks very irregular. Also sometimes, it is raised such as for example, thread with a GIMP thread underneath and it bespoke buttonhole. On the other hand, a cheaper suit oftentimes The stitching is not as fine, it's very regular, can identify if you're an expensive suit or Eight, look at the fabric reserve. Sometimes, an expensive suit has a half lining actually look in the back seam in the center. If there's a fabric reserve, you know you the light source if there's a lining, but is the pants. Just flip them over and look at the sides At least, you want at least two to three centimeters of reserve and it shows you it was made by save on the fabric and it doesn't give you Nine, look for grinze. If you have an Italian-made garment or anything see a kind of wavy pattern of fabric in the Sometimes, you can see it in shirts but also by that is a slight puckering which is produced hat, or the back in the shoulder. Some people like that because I think it adds garments, other people who are maybe of a school, or English tailoring school, think In any case, if you see it, you know it's that's done by hand and cannot be done in hallmark to see it but it's not very reliable or Italian suits. Ten, look at the buttons. A high-end suit has high-quality buttons. The standard is horn buttons and sometimes versus the majority of all suits including That being said, if you find two hole buttons is a high-end suit. Even if you find four holes, it can be a high-end see it in Italy a lot, or horn, sometimes precious metals such as gold. The hallmark of a horn button, or a Corozo, not consistent versus cheap plastic buttons Those will also break versus horn buttons So look for the holes and inconsistencies suit. Eleven, you have to look at the shoulder construction For example, when you combine this side with If you fold them both towards the shoulder also known as SPALLA CAMICIA in Italian, it's you know it is most likely a custom bespoke off the rack suit. Basically, all off-the-rack suits and also fold this way and the sleeve end folded that It gives you a less pronounced look of the who fold both of them towards the sleeve side layer in there to get a slightly elevated nicely down on the sleeve. It's just a very nice look and you need a easy to spot for a beginner, but once you're kind of shoulder it is. Twelve, look for material label. A high-end suit brand such as Ralph Lauren 100% wool. They may give you super numbers, they may made out of pro or a ,there may be silk or viscose is a lower-end option so look for If you can't find a material just as I said it's an expensive one. Thirteen, look at the trousers waistband. If you have a pair of Hollywood rousers that but the pants are just held all the way up, belt loops. If you encounter that, you know you have an that's made in a commercial off the rack or To learn more about hallmarks of quality pants this video here. Fourteen, look for monograms on the inside, of a suit will often tell you if there were chances are it was a more expensive suit than Now that you know how to spot an expensive to spot a cheap suit because some of the hallmarks definitely help you to always find a good On top of that, we have lots of video about a hundred versus a thousand dollar suit 500 I promise you, you watch all of this video In today's video, I'm wearing a vintage bespoke at a vintage suit using those hallmarks I in 1930s silhouette with wider lapels with it has no vent the fabric is a wonderful tobacco and just beautiful the fabric drapes well was enough fabric reserve in there to make fabric so I could have a nice cuff added which garments because cheaper suits just won't for me from a nice cotton twill flannel it purple madder silk tie with a small paisley find at our shop the pocket square is likewise up the tones of green and purple and just Belvedere just like my over the calf socks Fort Belvedere accessories in our shop here a sterling silver pair made of cloisonne enamel wearing is sterling silver it's blue it works I'm wearing are chocolate brown double monks belt wit ha silver buckle I'm also wearing my suit and contrasts a tie to learn more out these videos here and sign up for a free how-tos and lots of knowledge right to your