Speaker: This is truly an incredible opportunity to witness Matthew Hayden and Sadhguru in conversation. Having played for the Chennai Super Kings, Matthew And incredibly he also shares another common But today's program is all about And Matthew Hayden knows all about boundaries. So we were eager to see what's going to see how Sadhguru can take us to the boundless. Speaker: I would like to please invite Sadhguru and (Applause). Matthew Hayden: Good evening everyone. I'll just hide this away I've had a IT mishap Firstly, I accept the beautiful Welcome to 60,000 years of human spirit, goodness me can you get, and respect to those people always (Applause). It truly amazes me the sheer volume of people I guess for Australians, we feel a very long But on behalf of Australia, we welcome... Sadhguru: Thank you. Matthew Hayden: ... you with great sincerity and with great anticipation as well for this evening, which I'm sure, you know, will not only be enlightening, So on behalf of Australia and Australians, we're very in the room today, the definition of Australia is India, Pakistan, Sri Lanka, England, you know, our real Wales, South Africa, we truly are Sadhguru: You're missing the Chinese. Matthew Hayden: ... Chinese, Japanese (Laughter). Jeez, we've actually, let's... let's, let's on the planet that's sitting right in front of us tonight. Over to you (Applause). Sadhguru Chants Kalo ne janathi... Sadhguru: Good evening to everyone. I think a lot of them have been misled by the title - Beyond Boundaries, they think you're going to hit a sixer or something Matthew Hayden: Well, aren't we (Laughs)? Sadhguru: Well today we're not talking about We're talking about you and me going Matthew Hayden: It's a beautiful occasion as always, Is there a specific reason why we what's the force that's dragging us all together? Sadhguru: Essentially, the nature of being what kind of achievements you have behind you, There's something more, somebody may think somebody may think more pleasure, more love, in your life, only makes the arrangements better, So, whether it is consusl... consciously articulated but every human being is longing in Somebody thinks it will happen by going to the temple. Somebody thinks it will happen with prayer. All of them are aiming for the same thing, But the longing is, in some way to enhance So, in this effort, in this longing, within no matter what you do, what you give them, So, there is something within every human being, Whatever the present boundaries, we want to there is something within you which That's why you try to smash them (Both Laughs). There is something within a human being which See, suppose, let's say I imprisoned you in Tomorrow we will announce your liberation You'll feel wonderful for a day and again The next day we will release you into a But within three days again, that is also It doesn't matter where I set the boundary, the moment There is something within you which does not So, this longing finds various kinds of expression... People try through, music, art, sport, business. All these efforts are fine, every effort is fine. The longing is fantastic. Through intoxication, through stimulation, every way But the important thing is, Or do you breach it just for a moment and So when this question comes up, there's a very, you It's one of the greatest documents on life, scholars wouldn't get interested. Because once they get interested, they will So Patanjali starts this significant document with half a That means, you tried money, you tried wealth, you tried pleasure, you tried intoxication, everything did something to you, but you know Matthew Hayden: Happy. Sadhguru: So yoga does not mean that is consciously you obliterated Because your individual nature is just your As you sit here, your boundaries of your body Right now, constantly you're breathing, it is happening in many different levels, but in the most fundamental way you're breathing. If you close your mouth and hold your nose, You have to breach the boundary every moment, This is not just in the level of your respiration, is in some kind of transaction. So your very existence is not within the boundaries, you have this sense of "this is me." This is because... see, tch, this solar system, is a tiny speck in this cosmos. In that tiny speck, planet earth is a micro speck, in that you are a big man (Laughter). And in the middle of nowhere, we don't know here we are sitting on this little mud ball and Yes, and we think we are doing it. See this... all this mistake and this confusion has happened because creation gave us an individual experience though we are like a speck of dust a micro speck in the universe, it gave us We are taking this individual experience rather No, it's just psychological. It's fantastic, it's the magnanimity of creation, This does not mean, you're actually an individual, without everything else around you. All these arrangements you did not make, we've arrangements of atmosphere, we did not make the we did not make the arrangements of keeps us well, this is not our making. So this sense of individuality has been taken Because of that, no matter where you are, you feel somewhere deep inside trapped. So, if you think, somewhere a little instinct Matthew Hayden: Let's focus for a second on as an individual can take it that the Isha foundation is... So talk to me about the spirit of collaboration. these organisms like a human body that might describe But you know, there's this huge juggernaut Tell me about the foundations of that thought, where it Sadhguru: I don't collaborate with anybody Whoever, either they're in front of me or And this is not my doing, this is the way See, you may not be... you may not be able but what they exhale you are inhaling I'm saying essentially your existence is inclusive. I made my mind just the way my life is, So I don't think in terms of collaborating Whether they like it or not, I make them a I don't seek other people's permission to make them a Because I don't need their permission for So out of this things happen in many different essentially the fundamental activity is to raise human our sense of who I am, is only because too Your physical body is an accumulation, isn't Hello? Hello? Sadhguru: Slowly, you came like this, just this much just by eating, isn't it? Sadhguru: What you have eaten is just a piece If you get it from now, if you get it from otherwise one day you will get it It is good then also because for most people But (Laughs) if you get it now, you could the soil that you walk upon, the air that you breathe, is actually you, happening, yes or no? What is not you today could be you tomorrow, What was soil yesterday, today became food, So what you call as my body is just an accumulation, but you cannot say it's me, see right now, I can say this is Hello (Matthew Laughs)? Food appears on your plate, you say this is So consciousness means just this - if your in a certain way because physical body I'm sorry, my physical body is right now leaking Matthew Hayden: Translate Sadhguru, he had and he got cold and now he's got a cold (Laughs). Sadhguru: I thought I was playing in Chennai Matthew Hayden: I once played in Chennai,and I... and and of course, its forty degrees, well, Sadhguru: Hundred percent (Laughs). Matthew Hayden: always peak, I don't know why there's a water crisis in (Laughter). Matthew Hayden: Like you just catch, like and catch that water and that would But I play this gut round of golf and every time I try and So I thought forget golf in Chennai Sorry, you were saying. Sadhguru: So, if your body is dominant you you think through your body or your intelligence So naturally survival instinct will be the strongest dimension of who you are. When survival instinct is strongest, you always When survival instinct is strong, you want The walls of self-preservation are also What looks like protection today Has it happened to you or no in many different ways? You build a wall thinking this is protection, Of course, built by you so you cannot easily demolish it, has gone into it (Both laugh). If you identify with your psychological process,once but still, it is a boundary, because all your with the identities that you have Maybe your race, your religion, your nationality, your psychological framework, See when it comes to body - this is my body, We won't get this till we are buried, that But, this is my body, that's your body, right This is my mind, that's your mind, here and there But when it comes to life, there is no such Right now the problem with most human beings is too dominant for them to realize than the body and the psychological This is like, let's say, you and me blew soap bubbles. Matthew Hayden: Mhmm, it would have been fun. Sadhguru: So you got this big bubble, Now I claim that is my bubble, Then I don't say this is my air - that's your air. You captured some I captured some. Now, the whole science of yoga is about breaching structure, so that you imbibe more and more life. So, after some time, the life that you are than the thought and emotion that you more than the psychological and physiological not necessarily because of what you You're just a significant life simply, by Once it happens like this, effortlessly you Every human being is doing this knowingly some are depleting, some are gaining. But as there is a science for external wellbeing there is a where you consciously obliterate the boundaries of so that the life that you are is so highly enhanced, It's not necessarily because of what you do, simply your This is something every human being must do, because Hello? You cannot run like a cheetah, you are not as strong as You're no good actually, physiologically. See...(Interrupted by Matthew) Matthew Hayden: Speak for yourself (Laughter). Sadhguru: No, I'm saying, if you compare yourself It eats, it sleeps, it dies, reproduces and In all these departments you are no good compared They eat better than you, there are insects which eat, you They sleep better than you, many of them sleep they reproduce better than you, they produce for you just to bear one child how much fuss So physiologically, you are not a great champion, Among humans you may be... Matthew Hayden, not comparable to a rhinoceros or a elephant, nothing, Among the human beings, he's smashing the I'm saying physiologically we are not a Our significance is our intelligence and our Every other creature, always trying to set Once you become a human survival is not See, for all other creatures, stomach full, For human beings - stomach empty, only one (Laughter). Because what is human unfolds only after survival When survival is question, we are also just Only when survival is taken care of other So, human life is not about survival, physical We are longing to be something more, how much Hello? How much more would settle you? If I make you the king of this planet or queen No? What do you want? No. If I give you one galaxy, you will want the This is the nature of being human, doesn't the moment I see the boundary, So there is something within you longing to do not matter what you have, you So, this is what Yoga means, that you breach psychological nature, that if you sit here, Matthew Hayden: Tell me this then, if our strength is dismal decisions as a humanity, why are we... And we're talking about all sorts of global If we're so intelligent, if that is our strength, the fact is that we've got boundaries Sadhguru: See, you know, Charles Darwin? You have a city called Darwin, I think, right? He said a goat could have become a giraffe a pig could have become an elephant But a monkey became a man rather too quickly Yes, so quickly that anthropologist believe that Today modern genetic scientists are saying in terms of DNA, the DNA difference between 1.23 percent is not much of a (Laughter) So physiologically, that's how close you are But in terms of your intelligence and consciousness So right now the problem is just this, you don't have a stable enough base. Because of this, people are using their intelligence They don't need any outside help. So they may call it stress, they will call they will call it madness, Essentially, it's about your intelligence So, nature has endowed you with an intelligence, anything which is a great possibility, if you don't Right now human intelligence has become a have not taken charge of it for their wellbeing They're using it to hurt themselves. Once you use it to hurt yourself, knowingly If you are suffering, you must understand this, you're simply suffering because you do That is the problem that you're seeing on Matthew Hayden: Expectation, we were talking T-20 cricket is, you know, something that people love. But using that metaphorically, is there a false expectation... is that's for both the positive aspects but also, you know Or is it as simple as just keeping it to the moment If I was out of the moment, then I was like I was one second away from being out of play. Sadhguru: Oh, you went only to the pavilion. (Gestures) (Laughter) Matthew Hayden:All the way, Sadhguru: See, see, now you're getting somewhere, What you saw that's a king cobra. If he bites you in the limbs, you may have If he bites you in the body, you have six But he won't bite me, see I'm not holding He can, at his will, he can turn back and bite. But he won't bite, because his venom is Venom is among the highest or the most To manufacture that, he has to work hard. (Matthew laughs). Unless, I look like a threat to him. If I have to look like a threat to him, he's not judging If he sees a little bit of agitation in my Otherwise he will not go for me. So if we want to know you're really peaceful or not, whether they're really peaceful, peaceful or not, Matthew Hayden: Okay, trust me at times I the belly and just shaking him a little like Sadhguru: So this is the nature of existence. See... I'm sorry, you had a terrible accident in the wave, some will get crushed by the wave. Somebody who does not know how to surf, he Hello (Matthew laughs)? They can't believe that you can actually ride. Today there's something called as wake surfing, Behind the boat they're surfing with just So riding the wave and getting crushed by taking charge of something isn't? It is the same with every dimension of life, it? Those who are crushed by it, they think waves ocean. You are looking for big waves, you going to waves (Matthew laughs). So one who knows how to ride the wave is looking One who does not know how to ride the wave This is the nature of life (Matthew laughs). Time 70:59 Matthew Hayden: I have a little Aussie test I got a... I got a few sayings, colloquialisms, because of things that make no sense whatsoever (Few So we've mentioned number of times, Sadhguru (Audio disturbance) Sadhguru: You're not a googly bowler, you Matthew Hayden: No, no, no, it's not... So, Aussie sayings, just a simple test. I want you to... I'd like you to have a go at trying to think tell us what you... what you think. When I say to you what's an 'ankle biter', Sadhguru: What is? Matthew Hayden: An ankle biter. Sadhguru: I've just been here for two days, Matthew Hayden: You can have your own back Okay, if I say... you should be able to get two days, my expectations, dangerous as they Sadhguru: I know what's a footy. Is that good enough to be an Aussie (Laughter)? Matthew Hayden: Good. That's a tick. Fair dinkum. What 's fair dinkum mean (Laughter)? I Love it. Okay, I we'll get back to nature, what's a What does that mean? Sadhguru: Must be a wombat or something (Matthew Matthew Hayden: It's a...it's a bird... Australia.... Sadhguru: See I got somewhere close. Matthew Hayden: Yeah, very close. We'll give you a tick. We say _____ (Unclear, sounds like - yakah) We often refer to something... I'll say 'Yeah, we'll get it over the line, mate.'What does that mean? Sadhguru: A girl (Laughter). Matthew Hayden: Now, that's more like _____ (Unclear) surfing expression _____ (gnarly?). Just for fairness, I'll just go one more. Sadhguru: See, you're also reading from the Matthew Hayden: That's true. I just wanted to get it right, that's all. This is something that we're doing right now, If I say to you 'Sadghuru we'll just up the fat for a while.' What does that mean? Sadhguru: Chew the fat? Matthew Hayden: Chew the fat for a while (Laughter). Sadhguru: Ohh, that means maybe like other (Matthew laughs). Matthew Hayden: Means we are talking, means You know, _____ (Unclear) the reason why I over in India, sometimes I would just get this strange look... something... Sadhguru: Chew some fat, let's chew some Matthew Hayden: That's what... those sort we get off, off air, they go, "Hey _____ And you forget that we are a language, especially we speak a tongue that's English but it's, me I been kind on you there's some horrific Tell me, you also mentioned that your first and, and, you know my first impressions of And there's also... in India, because there human energy and the chances are that if you're or India as a whole is actually having a bad of humanity. What was your impression so when you start just sensing the... the emptiness of the country I'd love to know what your impressions were And what insights you got out of it because time only for you in that environment as well? Sadhguru: Personally, I've spent a lot of India, in the Himalayas. Now every year I spend time in Tibet. These days it's very difficult for me to be People are all the time... Matthew Hayden: And do you like that? Is that something that you now seek that, Sadhguru: I'm at my best when I'm alone Matthew Hayden: And why is that? Why do you think that is? Sadhguru: Because I don't mess with myself. People sit by themselves and mess with themselves If they stay alone, they'll go crazy, a whole If one knows, if one enjoys being alone, it psychologically, emotionally, far better organized One of the... one of the important processes we offer, is always to go into silence. People go into silence, for... from three people go on silence. Not saying a word to anybody. Well, in today's world where if they are having breakfast, "I'm having breakfast." If I'm going to the toilet, "I'm going to When this is the world (Both laugh) to just Initially, it looks like a struggle, but once without it. You just can't be without it. See it's like this. If I shut myself up once in a way, from everything of the week, three-hundred-sixty-five days, on (Laughs). So if I shut myself, I don't read anything, don't even look out of the window, because is far bigger than all the entertainment you Because most people are only living with their emotion, they get bored, they want to do something But if you engage with the basic phenomena I'm just asking? Participants: Yes. Sadhguru: Hello? Participants: Yes. Sadhguru: No, no please look at this. Please look at this in twenty-four hours' Most of the time you're just a bundle of thoughts, something, something other than life. If you... if I just sit there four, five days, I simply sit. They are the best times, if I do that once, no weekly holiday, no nothing, we just go Because once you touch the source of your people, people around me think I'm superhuman. No, this is not about being superhuman, this It is not for nothing, it is not for nothing planet. Hello, are we? Participants: Yes. Sadhguru: We're the peak of evolution on this It's... to make you the way you are, it took Nature, has worked millions of years to get But now all most human beings can do is complain. This is a product which is arrived at after years. But now you're complaining about how it is dimension of what a human being is. A human being is not just a bundle of thoughts something more to this, body you accumulated, of impressions. This is a heap of food, that is a heap of the hell are you? Yes, where are you? It's time everybody pays some attention because Since you came and sat here you are forty-five Yes, I'm not... Matthew Hayden: Sobering thought. Sadhguru: I'm not wishing this on you, this This is not clock ticking away, it's our life Most people think other people die (Laughter), No, no, you and me will die. If you understand, if you understand that you would see how to master this in some way. Do whatever you want, you can't stop one minute Hello? Whoever you may be, can you stop it? No! It's rolling away for all of us at the same Well, how quickly, how rapidly or how slowly, you are. If you're... have you noticed this on a specific puff, went off like a moment. Another day you were depressed twenty-four So only miserable people can have a truly If you're really joyful, if you're very joyful, over. For the possibilities that a human being has really nothing. Hundred is not a looong life, hundred is nothing, away like this, in no time. If you're miserable every day feels like hundred So, time is a very relative experience, but energies. Energetically, if you are at a certain level you will do in one year. Because of this the impact and the profoundness the profoundness of experience, in terms of like thousand years, though you lived only yourself, but time is limited. Tamil people... you know some Tamil words, Matthew Hayden:Ceri... (Tamil word) Oke... There is one, Ceri Sadhguru: I'm going to goog... I'm going to googly you with Tamil words, fat with me (Laughter). Matthew Hayden: Yeah, you've got me. Come on now, hit me... hit me with something Sadhguru: In Tamil language this is very well we say Kaalam Aitaanga that means his time Time got over that's all that happened. Time is getting over even now, isn't it so? How young you are, how healthy you are, how is getting over. If you're conscious that you are mortal, and would tweak up your energies to such a level Otherwise, if you think you are here forever, have time for all kinds of rubbish that you If you knew it is very limited, you wouldn't it? Hello? Would you have... if you really knew... see, on this planet, just by natural process. And you think those people are all thinking Hello? You think so? No. Lot of people are going to their office, somebody dreams, young people, old people all sorts If you knew that it is possible, it's not but it's possible tomorrow morning you and Hello? Possible or no? Is not our wish, possible or no? If you know it is possible that, it is possible have time to quarrel with somebody? Would you have time to bicker with someone Do some nonsense that doesn't matter to you? You would do only what truly, truly matters If every moment of your life if you're doing live a wonderful life (Applause). Matthew Hayden: Beautifully said. So you can assume that, with that philosophy, And, you know, the Isha Foundation is, is that. But I wanna talk specifically about water of water and some of the things that you're and that relationship as well with in particular Sadhguru: See I grew up in Karnataka around About four and a half years, every day I swam between fourteen, fourteen to eighteen, nineteen Cauvery river. Once I floated down Cauvery for thirteen days I lived off the river. In my experience, the river was not some kind In my experience, she was a life much larger People like you and me come and go but this But today we have brought her down to her is in a big... is a big question mark. This is not just for one river this has happened Just to give some kind of a picture for people See, we must understand this in India, this not the source of water, it is only a destination River, pond, lake, well, these are not sources There is only one source called monsoon. Monsoon rain is the only source, it gathers If it is flowing we call it a river, if it inside we call it a well, but essentially Only four percent of Indian river water is nearly three percent of it flows out of the and Indus, very little comes to Ganga. For example, Ganga... Ganga is twenty-five percent of India's geography, but has depleted over thirty-seven percent of green cover in the Ganga basin in the last Ninety-two percent, what is the plan? Narmada has depleted over sixty percent, Godavari depleted over seventy percent, almost seven Cauvery has depleted, according to studies But in my personal experience, see they are water flow so many million liters or trillion ago, now it's gone down forty percent, but is water. Let's say you take September, October, in how it is today is only twenty-five to thirty old. This has happened because we've removed rampantly, one thing is agriculture. I remember this very well forty years ago it was very common for every farmer to have This was his insurance, in Karnataka, especially name the tree after their daughter or their They say this is for the girl, this is for So when the girls marriage comes, they will Boy wants to go to the university, one tree, So always trees were there in the farmland. But forty years ago when really this chemical were very organic, when chemical fertilizers people coming and campaigning. These companies came and campaigned in the trees in the land their root systems are aggressive, to take away the trees. So we took away millions and millions of trees fertilizer will be wasted on the trees. So today we've come to a place where groundwater going away, every water source is just depleting. But in the last hundred years, there is no that is happening in the subcontinent. So the rain that is coming is the same it is gone because the green cover is gone. Without the necessary organic content you When rain comes, how slowly it moves towards will flow in the year, how many months it If it moves rapidly within three months it for twelve months, this is all the thing is. There is a very wonderful... I can do another googly, Tamil googly for In Tamil language there is an ancient saying this means only if Cauvery comes walking, running, she'll bring disaster. So how do you make a river walk? If a river has to walk there has to be substantial in the form of rain is held in the land and Today this whole understanding of river systems rivers, so many... I see so many people of Indian origin, you seven, eight, ten, twelve rivers, major rivers, Cauvery, but you need to understand a river For example, Cauvery has over one-hundred-and-twenty And most of these tributaries don't even flow They were all perennial streams, but today to four months. Cauvery is not touching the ocean for over This is happening mainly because there is So this project what we have taken up called Rivers. Rally for Rivers was done with the intent We are hundred percent successful in this Central Government was accepted in total, and then the economic tests, and they found for all the twenty-nine states as official About four states are proactively pursuing Another three to four states we have Memorandum them. But many other states are just not doing anything subject between Federal Government and the Center can only advise, it's the State which So where they have not acted, there you see So now Cauvery Calling is a different level in Maharashtra, you wouldn't know there's river. Are there Marathi people? So, this is known in the country, unfortunately India, because maximum number of farmer suicides Now in Tamil Nadu and Karnataka this is becoming happening. Today in Tamil Nadu eighty-three percent of loans. Seventy-seven percent of Karnataka farmers What a distressed debt means... what a distressed the money which they have taken. It doesn't matter how much farming they do This means either they have to sell the land This is the options we're giving them. We're driving a whole mass of people in this This has happened for variety of reasons, soil, what was a very fertile soil, you know, years. But today in one generation, we're turning the only way you can enrich the land is by waste. Trees are gone long time ago, animals are Now there is no leaves, there's no animal Out of one-hundred-and-sixty million hectares million hectares have been identified as distressed animal waste. If we don't put back trees back in the soil, we will... our ability to grow food will be This is one of the greatest achievements in advancements, just with sheer traditional food for over a billion people for the last But today we are driving him to the wall (Applause), So the plan for Cauvery Calling is just this, square kilometers into agro forestry. We've already converted about 70,000 Tamil in five to seven years have gone up anywhere talking about three-hundred to eight-hundred trees in one-third of the land. So we want to bring this to the entire region The challenges to bring about... see we can - 2,000 people are going into it. If you go at this rate, we will take two to Now with Cauvery Calling, I'm trying to crush Twelve year project this is. In twelve years, we want to see that 2.42 the region. If we do this, the water that is sequestered are there, will be something like nine to To give you some perspective, the entire water So if twelve trillion liters extra go into on, all the groundwater will be replenished, See if you don't know what I'm talking about, what I'm saying. Just go out, you have outback, walk in hot come under a tree and sit. It's magic. Life changes just like that. If you have ever really walk long distances, just go under a tree after hot sun and sit This life changing, you know, wealth that forest. Unfortunately, in shortsightedness, we have to do it. We need everybody's support to do this, Matthew Hayden: Thank you. I'll pledge my support. We had a in the lead up to this a little technological requested by Sadhguru to, to invest and that's I think it's an incredible cause (Applause). I also had a little bit of fun with, with in particular and he, he requested a question. Anand Mahindra, for those that don't know in the world. And as a business they're very conscious on, for such a influential individual but he asked on company, he asked from an individual's with those discussions I'm sure everyone, this, are very similar discussions as to how resource and, and almost in, in many ways and put it on a national agenda because we as what any other country is(Applause) Now, rice... Sadhguru: I'm a good cook (Laughter). Matthew Hayden: Well, you can... we can have Not, not a competition, just enrichment... Sadhguru: Cook off? Yes, yes... Matthew Hayden: ... enrichment experience. Now one of the processes of cooking rice, to wash the heck out of it, to ensure those But my question is from Anand, and I asked level can we do about water wastage? Sadhguru: See, because the urban populations they dominate everything, but they are not I'm saying this because... it's like this, of people who have seen Indian movies, they pot and walking to the river or lake and walking they sing a song everything, but for the actor, The real woman is carrying fifteen kilograms Yes! There is no romance there. She cannot open her mouth and sing (Laughter). What I'm saying is the crisis has been long We thought it's romantic when it happens to But now you have to take your pot and go in like a disaster. Hello? This was happening everywhere in the villages. So what can we do? There are many things we can do, of course of water, have a bath only with four liters I will not say such things to anybody. I would just say, just be conscious. Just be conscious, water is not a commodity, life making material. Hello, hello? Participants: Yes. Sadhguru: Seventy percent of you is water, How come when it's here (Gestures) you don't it means so much? You just be conscious, this is life, this If you're conscious of this, I know according you will do your best. It's not in me to tell people drink only this day, these advices are coming all over the No, I shower every day (Matthew laughs), so days (Laughter). Nor if you shower once in three days I don't So leaving that aside in the cities, see the is very different. They are thinking of water about how to minimize Yes, definitely that needs to happen because water arrangements that you have in the urban But that's not the real problem. The real problem is ecological. Ecological problem is not just about saving water where you want. When I say having water where you want, in million years ago, how much water existed of water exists on the planet except for a out there and... (Matthew laughs), you know, they left it on astronauts, they might have left a couple Apart from that, everything is here in this It's just not where you want it, that's all. Yes? Water is not gone anywhere, it's in the atmosphere. As you said, you were wading through water where it has to come (Matthew Laughs). So water is not where you want it. So we need to look at this, why is it? Where do you want it? You want it in the land, you want the aquifers you want the rivers to be running. It is not about the water tank on your apartment, That is a city problem, that is an urban problem, to be minimized, that is fine, we appreciate But the most important thing is to ensure - considering India right now, the volume we are not even holding eighteen to twenty When the whole thing was tropical forest, in the land. Today we are holding less than twenty percent That's all the real problem is. So right now, instead of doing many things, about it, recycle whatever you can. Well, you have water harvesting in your apartments all this is fine, you must do these things. But this is not a real solution. You're just kicking the can for tomorrow. Now kicking the can for tomorrow, I don't you create the next generation should suffer. Hello? I don't like this. Better face it now. This is the reality. The only and only thing I'm telling you it science, the only and only thing the land animals, that's all it needs. People will say check-dam, right now everybody rivers. See, you need to understand this, all these where the variation between summer and full percent. That means eighty percent to...seventy-five In India between monsoon and summer, the variation If you build check-dams you will transform town and city you build a check-dam in the a temperature which is around over thirty-five days' time... if the water is flowing, it the water in thirty days, the evaporation So, these big dams have been a big disaster. We did these things at one time and we did Now, the science of hydrology has evolved Right now, everybody knows one-third of the important. So for this, we are talking about just Cauvery Cauvery basin as a demo, that this can be If there is determination in the people this Once this happens, because it's so lucrative nobody can stop it because it's so lucrative. Right now India is importing over 70,000 crores one lakh or 120,000 crores worth of timber But nobody's allowed to grow timber because somebody will come and arrest you. So nobody wants to grow a tree. Right now we are bringing laws as a part of In the last term of the government, we got getting all the high value trees released not going to grow it, as simple as that. So we're talking about - whatever he grows wants, only then he's going to grow trees it's economically lucrative. It's an economic plan for him (Applause), So right now, if everybody focuses on this to Australian dollar, you should know you Matthew Hayden: It always confuses me, lakhs Sadhguru: It costs just forty-two rupees to We are asking for the governments to give For the first three to four years, to give both for the farmer and the land. Forty-two rupees per sapling, that's what But I want you to understand, we need to plant That is the number of saplings, first four million saplings, for this preparations are now. We have thirty-three nurseries in Tamil Nadu. The Karnataka nurseries are being built up If this one thing we do, for me, how I'm looking way the previous generation gave it to us. This much responsibility we must have (Applause). Matthew Hayden: Just to close the loop on a difference? Sadhguru: Well, you can plant as many trees Forty-two rupees is all it costs. I don't know what it costs, can somebody say, Participants: Less than a dollar. Sadhguru: Less than a dollar per tree? So you can plant, ten, hundred, thousand, Everything matters even one matters. Matthew Hayden: Have we got a roving mic? Can we take any questions? Sadhguru: Yeah, is there a moving microphone? Matthew Hayden: That would be...It'd be lovely We've done a lot of talking and we'll do a questions. So maybe, I don't know who is the judge, you So yeah, here we go. Questioner: Thank you very much Sadhguru for So my question is regarding... because I've always mentioned about the need to...collaboration So you always mentioned that to be success... a collaboration of other people. For other things like our energy and our emotions, My question is that, because environment and have... can have effects on our emotions as not be affected by the environment? So how... how to be calm and happy and not these things together from each other? Sorry, thank you very much. Sadhguru: This a... very often people come my mother-in-law, she's impossible. My husband after all, her son. My wife, she's terrible. My boss unbearable," like this. Then I tell them, "You come, you come to Your mother-in-law, husband, wife, boss, nobody We'll give you a nice place to stay, good You don't have to do anything. Just stay in your room. We supply food for you. You just live there. Only thing is I will make random checks on When I check, you must be joyful. If you're miserable, I don't believe in feeding Laughs). Just twenty-four hours you keep them in one out. Unbelievable. So I'm asking you, all these other people, your wife, your boss, your coworkers, let's is gone. Just you on the island of Australia... (Laughter) blissed out, is it so? Hello? No. If you're alone also you're miserable, you If you're alone and you're miserable, you're So this is what you need to do with yourself of life is pleasant. Well, obviously, from what you said you have See pleasantness means just this, body is this called pleasure. Mind is pleasant, peaceful - very pleasant, Emotion is pleasant love - very pleasant, Your very life energies are pleasant, bliss These are all one-hundred percent your business, Hello? Keeping your body pleasant, thought pleasant, percent your business. Keeping the surroundings pleasant is a challenge, various kinds of forces. This needs skill, this needs opportunity, in, you know, not always we can do the same So, creating pleasantness around us needs things, things have to fall together, otherwise But pleasantness within you is entirely your So if you are feeling very pleasant within to you, what is the problem? Right now, they can cause pleasantness within Hello? See if somebody can decide whether you can worst form of slavery, isn't it so? Hello? Somebody can decide what happens within you, What happens within you must be entirely yours. What happens around you is never entirely Even if you are just two people in the family, Why are you nodding like this, what is... Even if there are two people it doesn't happen Little bit your way, little bit somebody else's I'm glad it doesn't happen all your way because I go (Laughter)? Little bit your way, a little bit my, way way, this is the nature of the world. World should not happen hundred percent your But this one life must happen your way, isn't Hello? So this has not been done (Applause). Now, for you to be happy you want to fix the No, no, I'm telling you, both your joy and Hello? So if you're miserable, who should be fixed, No, my mother-in-law, if we fix her also, come. Don't think there is only one mother in law They're all over the place , in so many people So, if you fix this one person... see, we We do not know whether you will score three-hundred-and-eighty We don't know. We don't know whether you will run faster We don't know whether you will climb Mount We don't know whether you will become richest become the most beautiful woman on the planet or not. We don't know those things. But at least this much you deserve, that your This much you deserve, this much must happen, isn't it? Other things are subject to so many realities. That's not always determined by us. There many things have to fall into place. Matthew Hayden: Next question, poor our mother-in-law There's a there's a species of fish in our it even tastes bad (Laughter). Where's our microphone? Questioner(Harsha): Namaskaram, namaskaram Sadhguru. My name is Harsha. I'm actually from Melbourne and I'm very, And hello to Matt, yourself, I'm a big fan (Applause). Sadhguru my question is about boundlessness. Earlier today you mentioned that there is to be to, to express in different ways Every morning when I get up, there are always one of the things that you said because you've tried everything. Every morning when I get up, I find that there's and sometimes it says "You don't have time." Sadhguru: You're married? Questioner(Harsha):Yes. Sadhguru: I understand what's the other voice Questioner(Harsha): So Sadhguru, I think my and also, we were talking about life, The question I suppose is, I mean, and of course, why, why doesn't it... every morning when I still get up I'm like, yeah, I've got time I can...I can get to yoga one day or the other and still be able to make it. But the reality seems to me that you know, Sadhguru: See, first and foremost thing that An individual means you're not further divisible. This is it, this is one unit. In this body, there's one person or two people. Hello? Now don't look at your wife and say that, One or two? Only one. If you're feeling two, this means you're either You need either a psychiatrist or an exorcist. Don't do that to yourself. Don't do this two voice business because initially after some time if it takes on, it's very painful. Mental illnesses are not fun. Everybody plays with it, see when you get what do you tell your friend, "You know, Well you got mad temporarily and you came It'll happen one day, if you keep crossing sanity and insanity is very thin. If you cross it, one day if you're not able health, is it very thin the line, any moment, or inside, something can happen. Similarly, the line between sanity and insanity Most people don't realize this how thin it Don't walk on that line, keep away from that Stay on the sanity side. It's very important that you don't get mad and if you can't come back, what do you do? Then, you're gone, isn't it? So two voices are not good. There's only one person here. Only one, right? Only one inside, this is an individual. You cannot further divide this. The moment you divide this, you're asking Don't do that. Now... (Applause) how much time do I have? Well, one voice is saying you got time, so This is not about fun, but I want you to understand you a story? Okay? Because you think this is a serious question, why a whole lot of human beings have become They don't understand, before they came here, and no sign of them, they're all top soil You're just a small pop up. Hello? You just a small pop up and you will pop out. But you are taking yourself too seriously. Believe me, if the whole solar system evaporates the universe, that's how big it is. And that's how small we are. So don't take yourself too seriously. Yes, this life is important for us. Why? Because every life is seeing how to find its Not thinking something big of you is there See if there were dinosaurs in Australia, it? Suppose you're walking on the street, colony go, one guy is dead, one guy is half dead, because they just ants. So if they were bigger animals than you, they They wouldn't even eat the whole of you, tch. They wouldn't even treat you with any dignity. They would just eat one part and throw the They would also do it, so much population, isn't? So do not take yourself so seriously. This is the biggest problem, that you've taken You just a smaller pop up. The important thing is just this, it is the an individual experience. Do not misunderstand that, do not misunderstand This is just to understand life is significant, You just a bubble, you just a bubble, it will Well, it may last hundred years, hundred years Hello? You may think hundred years I lived long and Nothing, many idiots on this planet thought important too, Alexander the Greats have come, So they were telling me about, you know, I went to India...", I said don't worry, he that too a female (Gestures)... gone the Emperor He died of malaria. So do not underestimate a small mosquito it Matthew Hayden: See, we found something worse Sadhguru: No, that, there is a thing about, (Conversation overlap)? Matthew Hayden: Oh, I don't know, we need Sadhguru: Between in-laws and out-laws, out-laws Matthew Hayden: We need a mic somewhere... I can point but... Sadhguru: See mother means how much attachment Same, mother-in-law means so much problem this, why are we like this (Both laugh)? Matthew Hayden: Please some... I'm gonna point like this it's... there me." You just need a mic to go some... Questioner: Hello. Sadhguru: Where are you? Questioner: May I ask the question? Here, right here, please. Sadhguru: Right here? Questioner: Yeah, yeah, it's a little... Sadhguruji, thank you very much for your enlightening, Thanks Matthew. I got a little bit technical question in terms probably the memory is one of the biggest Patanjali, in a funny way, he says - anubhutha that, as a part of a chitta, and again at samathi pragna poorvakaithare sham, so he same time it is the boundary we have to come Can you please explain (Applause)? Sadhguru: Oh, you like the question, hmm (Both Matthew Hayden: It'll want to be a good Sadhguru: Let's... lets...let's chew some Matthew Hayden: Yeah, there you go, in the Sadhguru: See you are who you are only because There's conscious memory, there is unconscious of memory, there is genetic memory, there memory, atomic memory. Everything is built into this. Matthew Hayden: Muscle memory. Sadhguru: Hmm? Matthew Hayden: Muscle memory. Sadhguru: That is what I said, inarticulate Your entire head to toe is just memory. You don't remember consciously, how your great ten generations ago, but his or her nose is forgotten for a moment. Hello? It even remembers the skin tone. How your forefathers were a million years So your structure is like this because of Your body is memory. Every cell in your body has more memory than So, this, what you call as me is just memory. If you lose your memory, you don't know who Hmm? And the only thing that most people are suffering See, it's only the human beings who have such Even a grasshopper has memory, but conscious But you have a vivid sense of conscious memory. Because of this life and life's experience on your phone (Matthew laughs). But even those machines that we created of to enhance our memory, isn't it? Because we saw the value of memory. So memory is the maker of who you are. You are who you are only because of your memory. There is no memory, right now if your memory who is your father, who is your husband, who you belong, your nation, your race, religion, it so? Including your God and devil, all in your If you lose memory, you don't know anything. So memory is a tremendous possibility. At the same time it is a boundary. It's a certain knowledge that you accumulated, So in yoga, we have a very powerful tool, hmm? See, your knowledge, you are well educated, the planet, still, your knowledge is a miniscule If you identify with that miniscule of knowledge, you identify with you become that in some Hmm? Whatever you identify with strongly, you become knowledge, you become a miniscule existence. But our ignorance is boundless. If you identify with your ignorance, you will for your ignorance. Your knowledge has a boundary. Your ignorance has no boundary, isn't it? But it takes a certain amount of dispassion come to this space where you identify with If you identify with your ignorance your intelligence See, right now if I ask any one of you to walk. Because you can see. Suppose we turn off the lights and its pitch Now if I ask you to walk, now you're super Hello? You're super alert. Matt was telling me, when he is batting, it's a missile, it's... on the television it's is trying to knock your head off. Yes, it's a hard ball, It's coming anywhere sixty kilometers per hour, and it doesn't shape, whichever way it wants or whichever It's a hard game, people are watching on the game. It's a very hard game. And it's a missile. You just have a split second, if you're not Either you go to the pavilion, or go to the These days there is a helmet, you don't go One time they went to the morgue. Now they go to the hospital with a broken So this is the same, the moment you are... now, you're super... super alert, isn't it? Hello? Its pitch dark, you don't know where your This is what ignorance means. This is the power, or this is the intelligence ignorance, your intelligence cannot sleep, it's always on. But if you identify with your knowledge, it Because conclu... knowledge is a kind of conclusion Once you draw a conclusion you will sleep. Sleep is... is a shorter version of death, Hello? You're dead to the world. Well you come back tomorrow morning, but at exist, when you're fast asleep. So in a way you're dying, how long you die If you're dying eight hours a day, that means So if your intelligence become super alert, to you is your sleep quota will come down more conscious, because you are identified If you understand - I do not know, if you Now, this is a tremendous possibility. Only if you see I do not know, the longing of knowing becomes a reality, isn't it? Everything I do not know I just believe, it it, anybody said it - You don't know. Hello? Isn't it? You don't know. When you do not know, if you really allow know a damn thing about anything in this universe. That's a fact, isn't it? For practical purposes we know but existentially Now, you are identi... naturally identified you're a seeker, you can't help. Always your intelligence is probing everything not know. But reading high school textbook if you think Lot of people have gotten into this state They read high... high school textbook, and This happened, this happened in UK, it's a to Australia. The scene. Matthew Hayden: Came a long way (Both laugh). Sadhguru: A social situation where lot of also was there, he was not dressed like them, So they sat at the dinner table, a very high "And may I ask you what do you do?" He said, I study science. "Oh, I was done with that in my high school" So a scientist understands he's still studying Only others think he's a scientist. He knows he's studying science because the ignorant you are, it's not that more knowledgeable More you'll realize how profound is your ignorance, So, this entire dimension of moving into an and foremost step is this - that you have you're identified with that which you do not Now your intelligence is on, slowly it will Because memory means repetitiveness, isn't Hello? Memory means repetitiveness, the same If memory determines the nature of your experience, of the people, their memory decides the nature in India; karma case. You're sitting here, stomach is full or empty, bullets at you, you're fine, but you're (Gestures), why? You're chewing your own fat, am I getting Matthew Hayden: Yeah, maybe that's where it Sadhguru: So you're chewing your own memory way, both ways, your karma. Karma means action. Action means; the residual action which remains it is at all levels. This residual memory is right now deciding from that is a whole effort, which in complicated The important thing is, you break free from If you live out of your memory, no new possibilities permutations and combinations but the same If something absolutely new has to happen everything that stored in you, your genetic beyond that, now you have a completely new This is something that is possible for every paid attention to that. Just not paid attention to those aspects that's of any special, specially made human beings, I want you to understand this, when it comes take a cricket bat and do what Matt does, what I do or maybe you can't run like somebody else. When it comes to external realities, we are Hello? Is it a wrong word to use on you? Everyone of us is differently capable when But when it comes to the inner dimensions, It is just that most people have never paid They still believe that by fixing what's around But I want you to understand this much, compared ago, let's say a thousand years ago, or even and convenience, are you not way, way, way possible, yes or no? But still, we're complaining. So much arrangement, so much arrangement, planet apart, but still, can you claim - are people were hundred years ago? Can you? You more comfortable for sure, you know conveniences What even royalty could not afford, all of with four-hundred six-hundred horses (Laughter), But life has not changed. You must understand, it doesn't matter how remember, in the end, there is no container There's no container service, because most hmm (Applause). Matthew Hayden: Where is that mic, roving Please, someone. Participant: Right here. Well, I hope I don't sound silly asking this How do you think positively in circumstances negative, if I term it like that. I'll give you a specific situations... Sadhguru: No, no, don't, don't, I understand ___ (Unclear). Participant: No, I.. this is relevant to my I'm giving you a specific, you know, situation For example, you find out that your mother a, you know, serious life threatening disease. How do you cope? How do you think positive? How do you stay stable there? Thank you. Sadhguru: I know when somebody dear to us, to them, injury, accident, disease, well, But I want you to understand this, see this trying to remind you from the beginning in we need to understand this is a fragile happening, Right now it's on, the design of this life next inhalation did not happen, this is gone, You did nothing wrong, you just stood there, it? No weird shot, nothing, simply. It just nicked by itself and went off. So this is the case, this is the nature of It is just that when somebody is dear to us, This is simply because you have only one or you. I live a life where so many, I don't know very profoundly, involved with me, on a daily So in my life, how many people that are dear It's happening all the time, all right. So right now, the reason why you go through your involvement is very selective. Very discriminatory. Only this one person you'll involve, because Only that person, because I identify him as But if you knew larger involvement with life, lose somebody who's very dear to you. Yes, this is the case with me. Does it mean to say you have no emotion? Does it mean to say there is no sense of loss? No, all this is there. All of it is there. It is just that, if you are in terms with one way. This is what I was trying to tell you in the world is bigger than the existential creation. What this means is, your creation has become Once this happens, inevitably, you will suffer. If somebody is ill around us, what do we do? We do our best to turn them around, if it's If you cannot turn them around, you let them This is all you can do. Whether you cry, laugh, turn you... turn yourself on your, you know, upside down, that will happen, isn't it so? The question is just this, whatever comes will come, death will come, disease will come, of things will come, if you're living an active you make a mess out of it? That's all the choice you have, isn't it? Do you have any other choice, I'm asking you? Whatever life throws at you is not your choice. What you make out of it is one-hundred percent This choice, you must exercise (Applause). This choice you must exercise. What life throws at you is not your choice. Who knows, what kind of ball is the next ball? You don't know, what life throws at you is your choice. This is the power of being human, that you If, I'm saying, I know this is very hurtful you want solace or you want a solution to I am not somebody who will say pretty words With children, if they say something, okay, Well, if somebody is in grief, even if they're become like children, so we treat them like whether you want solace or solution to your If you want solution, there is one way to give pretty words, but what will they do? With all the pretty words I will die, you Solution is just this, we come to terms. This is why I'm saying, from being a physiological a phenomena of life. That's what you really are. What is the most important thing in your life That you're alive right now, isn't it so? Hello? Is that the most important thing? Life is the most important thing, not what the home that you're living in. Not anything else and not your thought and What is most important is the life that you that dimension of life. If your attention was for that, you would your involvement with life would be indiscriminate. Once your involvement is indiscriminate, you Right now when you're in distress, when somebody that. But I'm still taking the risk of saying you to ponder upon this. Because this is all the choice we have, we at us. We have a choice to decide what we make out Matthew Hayden: ___ (Sounds like - Isn't I think we've got time for another question. Participant: Namaskaram Sadhguru. Actually, I've asked to be over there for There's a thing I want... Sadhguru: What's that? Participant: I just wants to be over there Sadhguru: No, no, you can ask the question Participant: Can I, be over there for few Sadhguru: Oh, then why did you take the microphone Microphone is to speak long distance. See, you don't go next to somebody and take Please, somebody who has a question. This lady, here, here. Participant: Hi Sadhguru, welcome to Australia. And I have a question. Sometimes we get in a situation when we're expectation to, in terms of us. And when we cannot fulfill the expectation guilt. And it's okay when it's your mother in law, But sometimes it's your parents for example... Sadhguru: I have... I have no problem... I have nothing against her, I just joking Participant: And sometimes it's the people and you cannot really fulfill the expectation what you want to do, and obviously it's not feeling of guilt. And also, what do you think whats kind of and the children? Thank you. Sadhguru: That reminds me of something, see and children, just about every relationship, expectations. It's like this; a lady went to the butcher upside down, dressed chicken. Poor chicken, feathers are their dress, you laughs). So she went to this chicken and lifted one wing, wrinkled her nose, like this she was It was having an effect on the rest of the So the butcher saw it's having an effect, She turned around. So he asked, "Mam, can you pass a test like So a whole lot of people are always busy putting pass. Especially parents, parents think all the through their children. So they should have bread race horses (Laughter). I want you to understand this, children are Tch, it's... it's a privilege, another life You must enjoy it. Do your best to nourish it. What it becomes is not your business. Your business is to support it, create a wonderful Create an ambience where it grows well. I'm using the word 'it' consciously. Like a tree, like a plant, you just create Well, is it going to bear apples, pears, mangoes know. Only thing is, your wish is, they must grow They are not an extension of your ambitions. They are not and they need not be. So this is because people think they own their No, they're not your property. I think these days they're telling you, older by the time they're ten they're telling you, do"(Laughter). So does it mean to say you don't say anything No, it's your business to see, because if on the street or somebody will do it long are out there, all right? So yes, to protect them, to nourish them, it is your business to do that as a parent. But parent's concern maybe what will happen, I... my dear father, he's ninety-five, he's In his mind, that generation of Indians will you're no good. So I was no good (Matthew laughs). But that was good for me. Because when you're no good, nobody pays enough that they leave me alone (Both laugh). So I'm just saying, you know, he's always His concern is this, this boy has no fear So one day when I was eleven years of age, twelve foot cobra - he was my friend. And he said, this boy has no fear in his heart, Then I asked him, when did fear become a virtue? When did this happen? He said, "See, I told you, he has no fear I said, that's fine, but when did fear become Why is it like this? Why fear, anger, all these things have become Tell me when you go through fear, is it fantastic? Hello? Is one of the most terrible emotions you can Why are we thinking that we should be fearful anything that you do and you are even god Fearful about everything, what is the point? There is no such thing. There is no such thing that this generation this generation should do something that previous That is when there is a purpose to this generation, Otherwise, what's the point if you're going Well, if you want to do something that you to do it with everybody's approval, I'm sorry, It is just that whatever the hell you want Once there is success, your parents and your all right (Applause)? They want success, they're only afraid. They have every right to be concerned about They have every right because they brought well or not. They have every right to be concerned. But that concern should not become control Please microphones, quick here, some ladies. It's not working. Participant: ___ (Inaudiable) (Applause). Sadhguru: Somebody reach out to the upper Participant: Good evening. Thank you for coming here. Sadhguru: Where are you? Participant: I would like to ask you... what event; decision, experience has had the Sadhguru: I'm sorry, I did not hear the Participant: I'm sorry. What event, decision, experience, or period Sadhguru: You're asking Matt, right (Matthew Participant: No, I'm asking you. I would like to know. Please. Sadhguru: Hmm, this is been spoken of many, Experience, influence, see this is the only I was in United States and this lady comes I've been doing yoga for over thirty-five You just went and sat on that rock, they all (Laughter)? Now the rock is becoming famous, like you tree became more famous than the Buddha. I must tell you this experience, I was in thirty years ago. And I go to somebody's house for lunch. And this lady says, "Sadhguru I have a Bodhi I sit and meditate under that. Can you come and bless my tree"(Laughter)? I say "Please water the tree, I will bless She said, "No, no, no, you must come and I thought let me go into the backyard. I'm always an outdoor man. So I walked out then I looked around I did trees, I did not see any Bodhi tree. Then I asked her, where is the Bodhi tree? Then she takes me to one place, there, there tall, with about five leaves (Laughter). Under that she's put one stone plate and on tree. I looked at this Bodhi tree and said "See (Laughter). If you at least sit under the coconut tree Under coconut tree things happen (Laughter) need is a knock on your head (Laughter). So, what is the most significant influence? This is all I did in my life, from early childhood, my social situations, the religious situation whatever around me, I did not allow myself This is why I keep repeating I am an uneducated To remain uneducated is not easy. Yes, because from the moment you are born, not worked in their life (Laughter). It's a compulsive need in adults the moment when my daughter was three and a half months India, my one hand on her, my right leg heavy, I'm driving across the country. Every day I'm with a new family. Then I noticed everybody is desperate to teach I said "Please, nobody teaches her anything. No, A-B-C, no 1-2-3, no Mary had a little Then people said "Sadhguru, you're not letting this girl? This girl won't know even how to count her I said I don't care if she cannot count her fingers, what do I care? She thinks this (Gestures) is a million, what's As long as she knows how to use her fingers, or not, so (Laughter). I said nobody teach her anything, because by constantly looking down on the child, you the child feels smaller and smaller and smaller. Because nobody spoke to her in those terms, She's two and a half, three years, she thinks She talks to them like they're her friends, fluently speaking three languages, very fluently. Because nobody is teaching her anything, she's Well, I wouldn't have sent her to school, didn't allow that. So I sent her to a school where there's least One day she came back from school, she was upset about what happened in the school. Then she comes and tells me, "You're teaching me anything." I said "See, I'm not known to do anything Now that you have come you, sit down, we'll I said, "See this all you need to know - You She looked at me like this - What about you I said "Especially me, because if you look What will you do? Maybe take my picture and nail it on your That's all you will do." You got to see me the way I am. If you see me the way I am, every moment of to you. If you look up to me, you will exaggerate. Never look up to anybody, never look down This is all, is that all? That is all (Applause). See, if you look up to something, you will If you look down on somebody, you'll make If you don't do these two things, you will If you see everything just the way it is, This is all you have to do. Don't worry about what is significant. This is the most significant aspect of my I never looked up to anything, nor looked I looked at everything just the way it is. This all you need to do. Thank you very much (Applause). Matthew Hayden: Ladies and gentlemen. Sadhguru: Probably Matt is more loud in India It's wonderful to have you here, Matt, fantastic. Matthew Hayden: Thank you (Applause). Be very easy to listen to Sadhguruji all evening, So on behalf of us all, thank you for gracing You're very special human being. Sadhguru: Tell me what should I tell the Tamil Matthew Hayden: You can tell them from me shortly. That's what you can tell them. Surfing, cooking... Sadhguru: About the water. Matthew Hayden: About the water? Sadhguru: Yeah, what they should do, the Tamil Matthew Hayden: Easy as this... Sadhguru: ...and girls. Matthew Hayden: Spend a little bit of their all in business, aren't we? Sadhguru: Thank you. Matthew Hayden: Good evening, everyone. Thank you. Sadhguru: If you if you don't know this, if make the best masala dosa in the world (Laughter). Matthew Hayden: Well, they can be sure of Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. Sadhguru: Thank you. Matthew Hayden: Thank you (Applause). Beautiful. Thank you.