Hello, as many of you have asked me in the comments of the videos and in the chats that we have done live, I am going to present you this documentary about my biography through an interview with my son Eloy, in which I try to tell you how It has been my entire professional career, my affection for the rural environment and above all for the recovery of those old trades that were being lost, I hope you like it. To begin the journey through your life and career, what better way than to know your origins, tell us about your family childhood and if it was somehow related to the audiovisual world. I was born in 1952 in Huesca, a small Spanish city. My parents were Eugenio and Maria. My father was a carpenter in a humble family, my mother dedicated herself to her work and to doing some chores in some houses where she could get some family support as well. Then I had two sisters who are Ana Maria and Pili. Then I began to study, I was studying until I was 14 years old at the Salesian school, with very good grades, yes, but I had to leave my studies to go to work and also contribute to that family help that was so important in those years. . Later, when I was 14 years old, I started working in a company, in a combine harvester factory. I started as a bellhop, as an apprentice, and then I went up little by little. My involvement with the subject of photography or images simply began around the age of 16, because my uncle was an amateur photographer, later he became a professional, and he would lend me his camera and I would develop the photos in his little black and white laboratory. black that he had in his house. As you have told us, when you were young you hardly had any connection with the audiovisual world or with the ethnographic world. How did that passion for cinema arise then? In the year 1974, I had to do, like any young man of that time, military service and I was transferred to Melilla, on the other side of the peninsula and that was where I began to have certain concerns about reading, to learn something about the image and others because I had enough time. So when I returned to Huesca recently discharged from military service, it was when I got married and bought my first super 8 camera, which is one of those traditional ones that the family bought to record their events, their weddings, their communions and others, then it was My first contact with cinema. I had certain concerns, at that time and I was very interested in environmentalism, I was interested in anti-war, I began to learn music, by the way it was fatal because I had a very bad ear to play the violin and I had to give up music. He participated in the Tartana theater group here in Huesca as an actor. Then there came a time when there was a festival in Huesca, which was called the &quot; City of Huesca Short Film Contest&quot;, it was international. It was a full week each year in which numerous shorts were seen, both documentaries, fiction and animation, from all over the world and that is when, with my attendance at those sessions, it was when I began to worry about changing what the family recording, for capturing the feelings that I had at that time, generally within my philosophy of life. What were these first short films and also tell us what themes they dealt with. The first of them was the &quot;Requiem for some towns&quot; in 1980 and dealt with a problem that was emerging in those years, here in upper Aragon, which was depopulation, the emigration of our towns to the big cities. So I made that documentary because still in the houses you could still smell that soot from the chimneys, you could still hear that silence of life, in short, and that motivated me to make this documentary. Then came a very important one that was &quot;Check of Kings&quot;. &quot;Check of Kings&quot; was an animated short, in which he tried to tell what the origins of wars were like, why those wars were motivated and in the end what were the consequences of those wars. I did it with the animation system of the chess figures themselves, in which I tried to represent the origin of the wars with the kings who fight to take the ground on the board from their opponent. The border was actually a rope, it breaks by stretching, the kings declare war and then the armies are assembled, the white and black tokens each on their side and the battle begins there. A battle in which the pawns, as always, are the first to fight each other. As each pawn falls in battle, blood gushes from its head and gradually covers the board. When all the pawns have died, those on both sides of course black and white, the kings with their retinues each go to their side and the horses with ropes remove the pawns from the battlefield and the blood stains that they have fallen on the board extend until they are completely red. On the great red blood stain, to the rhythm of the waltz &quot;The Blue Danube&quot;, the two pairs of kings come out to the center of the board and dance exchanging their partners. The documentary ends with a phrase by Hermann Hesse that caught my attention, which is: &quot;those who want war, prepare it, and by means of vague promises of a coming peace or creating fear of invasions, they try to turn us into collaborators in their plans and are threats to our world and to any kind of peace&quot;. I also made other shorts with pacifist and anti-war content, one was &quot;Paper Soldiers&quot; and another was &quot; Blue Soldier&quot;, which I did all with cellophane, the whole cellophane base, it was very hard work because I had to draw each cellophane I learned all this self-taught, that is, based on books, based on practicing and others. And this is another of the anti-war films that I made and that I presented at festivals. Within these creative shorts, there was a very curious one called &quot;Capulets and Montagues&quot;, in which I mobilized a lot of people, the theater group of the Ramon y Cajal institute... And with all that I put together a great fantasy, even there may have been up to 40-50 actors in what was the bullring, with a large ship, the battles between the Capulets and Montagues were simulated, in short, a fantasy typical of that creativity that it had at that time. There were several Super 8 and 16-millimeter film festivals throughout Spain , and then I participated in some, because it was a way of obtaining a prize and with it some economic remuneration that would allow you to buy those reels and others. Here the important thing was to be able to get that award, and with the &quot;Check of Kings&quot; this was the first award I got. I got this one here in Huesca, at a festival called &quot;Teixi Boscos&quot;. With that economic prize I was already financing new reels. New prizes were coming, but there was a problem, there was a very important problem at that time that doesn't happen now, which was simply that you had to send the original, that's why we see here how the reels are so destroyed the boxes, because of course, they could only participate in a festival. You sent the reel, it was still a month or two months, from the selection projection and return. Then two months passed and if in those two months there was another festival, you couldn't send it to that one. Now the same thing does not happen, now you can participate with the same short film in several festivals in different parts of the world, which is facilitated by current technology. These short films that you have told us about are the beginning in the audiovisual world . When did the interest in ethnographic cinema and ethnography in general really arise? I lived in Huesca, a small provincial town very close to the mountains, and I was very interested in that way of life in the rural environment, of the people of the mountains, of the trades that still survived there, and for that reason already with 18 Years ago I took my backpack, it was a festival of San Lorenzo in Huesca and I went to an abandoned town, to Ibirque, to live with a shepherd for the whole week and to learn the techniques of the herding trade. But the most important connection came later, in 1982, with Angel Gari, who is a historian and an expert in the inquisition and witchcraft, and with my cousin Manuel Benito Moliner, who was an ethnographer who was already working a lot on the traditions of our land. I incorporated the Aragonese Institute of Anthropology. It was then that they proposed me to record all those trades that were being lost and I already had that vocation and I began to record from potters, espadrilles, coopers, the forge..., in short, all those trades that I saw were being lost. at that time. As a result of the short films that I was already making in collaboration with the Aragonese Institute of Anthropology and the awards that I was getting, which allowed me to make more shorts, I began to participate in the cultural weeks with a projector, the reels and I prepared a session for them and then those old trades were projected. It happened that in these projections, since people from rural areas attended, some interesting protagonist always came out, it could be a charcoal burner who lent himself to make a coal pit, or it could be a man who had made adobes or rammed earth, and he was interested and lent himself to that I could record it and increase it to what was being the beginning of what my file was. In these beginnings of ethnographic cinema, which documentary was the most important for you and, above all, the one that marked your professional beginnings in the world of ethnography? Yes, of course, there was a very important documentary that also generated that &quot;before and after&quot; that is usually said, it was Navateros in 1983. Navateros is a documentary that deals with the work of the forest, of setting up what were the great navatas or rafts, which were wooden platforms with tree trunks, and move them along the river until they practically reached the sea. In this documentary I had the collaboration, undoubtedly very important, of Severino Pallaruelo and Angel Gari, with the Aragonese Institute of Anthropology. The important thing about this film was to mount and get the old navateros to lend themselves to that trade. Severino Pallaruelo with his father, his uncle and his father's and uncle's friends who had in the Sobrarbe area, lent themselves to recreate all this trade. How did we do it? There, the collaboration of the Aragonese Institute of Anthropology intervened a lot, asking the institutions that allowed us to cut the wood, to allow us to go down the river and all this assembly that was impressive. When we were already three or four days away from making that descent, which was on a Sunday, Angel Gari's wife came up with the idea and said: Hey, what if something happened? If there was an accident? Who would be responsible for it's?. And there we all started to think and now what would happen, then we decided to look for an insurance company that would make us an insurance and at least we already have our backs covered. Two or three days before , Angel and his wife go to the insurance companies to see what type of insurance we can do and if it would fit into high-risk sports. They told us: &quot;Perfect, let's see the names of the protagonists: Luis Pallaruelo, sixty-odd years old. Oysters, we can't insure a high-risk sport for some gentlemen who were over sixty-odd years old.&quot; There was a company that took care of that insurance and the truth is that we did have an accident. As you can see in the images there was an accident, a major accident, in which one of the navateros, precisely the youngest, fell into the water, fell into a fairly deep area, with which he was able to get rid of what we feared, that it was the big problem, which was that the great weight, the great mass of wood had caught him from below on the river bed and had crushed his body in the river bed. But no, fortunately after about 40-50 seconds when Severino jumped into the water to try to see where he came out, that's when he appeared and hooked himself to the boat and we were able to get him out. Coincidentally I was filming, I had to cut the recording, to see what could happen. I can only tell you that when we got to the shore, when everything was over, that's when Severino and I almost began to cry, because of the responsibility we had run with that film. Then came the awards, the most important award was in the First Week of the Palermo Anthropological Film Festival, it was an innovative documentary on the descent of the navatas and there they gave it the first prize, a special award. Then I already participated in a second festival in Palermo with other documentaries also with ethnographic content. From there begins a cycle of travel and projection of this documentary along with part of my work. One of these trips was to Lomonosov University in Moscow, a trip we made through Tajikistan, Dushanbe... in short, several cities. The main thing was to project at Lomonosov University. I also took advantage of all that trip, which was a Spain-USSR cultural trip, to film all the performances, especially by the San Juan de Plan Folkloric Group because I was already beginning to make some documentaries, some short films with the group of women in that Pyrenean valley . Other festivals followed, and in addition to this trip to Russia, I made another trip to Leiden University in the Netherlands with several of my documentaries, especially &quot;Navateros.&quot; I had awards in Santarem in Portugal, in Oran in Algeria, at festivals of scientific cinema of Ronda in Malaga, and above all it also obtained some prizes at the Nitra film festival in Slovakia, which was about cinema from rural areas. As I told you before, the problem with these films is that they were originals, you had to send the original, this is the Super 8 film and at a scientific film festival, where I attended the screening, and suddenly I start to see how the frames are burning, how the film is burning. I jumped up real quick and went to the projection booth and made them stop the projection. Some meters of film had been burned and I had to cut them. As compensation, what they did do was, they paid me for a new print in Super 8 but also a print in 16 millimeters. This 16-millimeter copy allowed me to participate in other festivals in that category, with which I participated in the &quot;Huesca City Short Film Festival&quot;, where I obtained, precisely, the audience award with the film &quot;Navateros&quot; in 16 millimeters. This movie &quot;Navateros&quot; that you told us about was the one that marked the beginning of your professional career, but when did it stop becoming a hobby or a hobby and become a profession? At that time I worked in the company &quot;Industrias Albajar&quot;, I was there as a sales secretary, and I had free housing inside what was the company's building, with electricity, water, all expenses were paid . At that time I was married to my current wife Merche and we already had a son, our son Dario. It was also a risk to say &quot;I dedicate myself or I do n't dedicate myself to the professional.&quot; The trip that I have told you about in Russia arose. The Monday after this trip I had to get to work, if for any reason I didn't get to work I was fired. I already wanted to leave the company, but they would not have compensated me. Just arrived on Sunday, on Monday I went back to work but I already made the decision to dedicate myself professionally to the world of ethnographic cinema. That was when I already made the decision to leave the company. There is no doubt that this decision was very risky because of course, if I left the company I would not receive any compensation or anything, other than the unemployment benefit that corresponded to me at that time. My wife Merche was the one who decisively supported me in making the decision and leaving the company to dedicate ourselves, but that was ethnographic cinema. -What is this? - Look. - You finally did. - Naturally. - How about? - Much? - How &quot;a lot&quot; after 15 years in the company. You are happy?. - Yes - But it had to be done, right? - Yeah man, yeah. - Well, you have to buy a 16-millimeter camera and material to work with. - Slow slow. Without a doubt, leaving a stable job was a great risk and more so in a small city like Huesca that did not have a film-loving tradition as such. Tell us more about this stage you undertook? I continued shooting documentaries about trades in Super 8, so we created a distributor called Gramer Films, which means &quot;Gra&quot; from Gratal, who was a friend, and &quot;mer&quot; which was Merche, my wife. Gramer Films was created because I couldn't be with my name because I was unemployed at the time. From then on I was able to set up what used to be a video store, the video store called &quot;Centro de la Imagen Eugenio Monesma&quot;. Then in that video store, apart from the usual movies, he did many weddings, baptisms, communions, etc. That reverted to me an economy that allowed me to continue with my documentaries of trades and others. At the same time we distributed in barracks, schools and we continued with that activity of distributing films in 16 millimeters. We organized film club sessions in some towns and he also gave a course on film editing in Super 8 , etc., and something about image theory. - There is a problem, that we are running out of unemployment money, and this seems to me to be the last one and we are left with nothing. With the prizes, with the projections and with these things, we can no longer pay for the films we are making. In this first stage as a freelancer to dedicate myself to ethnographic cinema it was not easy at all, because in the first months I caught malt fever, brucellosis, because I had been recording cattle in the Pyrenees and it meant a few months of being in bed and being short. I recovered from the malta fever and then I had to go to Zaragoza on a trip to look for a U-matic camera, which they left me at the Government of Aragon, and on that trip when crossing a level crossing, the barrier was raised . When I'm about to arrive I say: &quot;oysters the train&quot; The train came from the front and hit me in the car, it threw me 30 meters away. The civil guard that made the report already told me that out of every thousand accidents of this type, only one was saved. I said: &quot;man at least I've been privileged, I'll have to do something, I'll be here for something.&quot; Here I also had the help of institutions that at that time had bought cameras, because these cameras were very expensive they were worth a lot of money and there were institutions like the Government of Aragon that had created a small audiovisual department and lent us the camera, or the University Popular de Zaragoza, or the Diputacion de Huesca that also bought other teams, in short, I could count on professional teams at that time. When I was in the video store I used to work with this camera, which was the Hi-8 camera, the non-professional format, it was a domestic format but enough to do weddings and all kinds of events. You have to admit that this first year you didn't have many facilities, but you knew it went ahead. Has a good professional streak finally come? If a good streak finally came, Television Espanola already showed some interest in my documentaries and my work and that was when I bought a 16-millimeter camera. The problem was that it was a different technique to that of Super 8, because Super 8 worked with the positive you splice and that was it, but here you had to work with the negative. You had to take the negative to be developed, they sent you a positive, you mounted the test positive and then you had to mount the negative, but since you will make a mistake in one frame, in the cut of one frame, practically the entire film will be unbalanced. You had to pay a lot of attention. I was lucky enough to have the Tolosa brothers in Zaragoza, who were one of the few 16-millimeter films in Aragon, and they taught me a bit about the practice and technique of 16-millimeter editing. It was then that I made five documentaries, which were &quot;La rama en el valle de Agaete&quot; on the island of Gran Canaria, &quot;Zaragoza y el Ebro&quot;, &quot;Calafateros&quot;, &quot;El Carnaval de Bielsa&quot; and another entitled &quot;Huevecillos&quot; . These five documentaries were bought from me by Television Espanola to broadcast them on La2, on public television. At that time there was a docudrama series called &quot;Living Every Day&quot;, in which the lives of characters who somehow made their way into a job, into a social life, etc. were collected. They were interested in me, Jose Luis Rodriguez Puertolas, who was the director, was interested in my story and they made a program called &quot;Face to face with Huesca&quot;. We were filming for 40 days, both in the Pyrenees and in our video club, on those dates that the video store had, and that initiative that I had had was shown there, of leaving a permanent job to dedicate myself to making ethnographic cinema in a provincial city as was the one in Huesca. It was practically a very uncertain future that I was facing -&quot;Why do you dedicate yourself so much to the cinema? -&quot;Well, because that's what I like, Dario&quot;- -&quot;Don't get distracted&quot;- -&quot;The last prize, look with the film about caulkers&quot;- - &quot;It's beautiful&quot;- - &quot;The one that says in the Ebro, do you remember, that I fell with the boat, do you like it? -&quot;Very, very nice it is&quot;-. With this docuseries, you went from being a cameraman to being the protagonist. What were the next steps? From then on, from 1988 to 1992, those four years, the Huesca Provincial Council had bought a &quot;Numatic Baja Banda&quot; camera. It was not the total professional quality and we began to make a systematic recovery of the traditions, festivals and above all old trades that were being lost. So at that stage, we made charcoal burners, adobe bricks, rammed earth, etc. Enough documentaries. In addition to this collaboration with the Diputacion de Huesca, the Government of Aragon, within the department of social services, commissioned me to make two documentaries, very much in line with what I was working on, which was the anthropological line. One was &quot;Drum Lacho, gypsies in Aragon&quot; about the life and traditions of the gypsies in Aragon. And another about the elderly in a Pyrenean valley, in this case it was in the Broto Valley, with which, it returned again to those roots of anthropological and ethnographic cinema. In these early years, they used the video cameras that the institutions lent you. When did you start working alone with your own team? It was in 1992 when the Government of Aragon created Aragonese television. Then they awarded Antena3 everything that was the direction, programming and others, then Luis Campo Vidal commissioned me a series on the theme he was working on, traditions, customs, trades, etc. Logically I had to equip myself with professional material and that was when I bought a &quot;Sony Betacam SP&quot; camera with its corresponding editing table, tripod, lighting, mounting, etc. All complete, which cost me 30 million pesetas, and I already acted on my own. Also, logically, I had to find helpers who would collaborate with me and at that time, we were already about five people. It was when I created the company Pyrene, which at that time began to be called Pyrene and continues to be called Pyrene today and we continue to produce under the Pyrene name. This was a very large investment, we are talking about 30 million pesetas from those years, to prepare a project, on your land, in Aragon, for Aragonese television. How was the series you were preparing? The series he was preparing was never released. Why? Well, because on September 15, 1993, there was a motion of censure, precisely because of television, Antena3's dismissal. There was a motion of censure, by which a character from a political party changed his vote. Due to that change of vote there was a change of government, a change of government that Aragonese television did not want, with which the building was closed, Aragonese television was closed, it disappeared and I stayed that day, September 15, with almost 30 documentaries already finished, prepared for the new series and not being able to release them at all at that time. This meant bankruptcy and an impressive risk for me, because I was stuck there with practically all the production done, with a debt of 30 million pesetas and without being able to get out in any way. There I was lucky, that in a motion of censure in the Cortes of Aragon as a result of those of us who had been directly harmed by that motion of censure and by that change and that closure of Aragonese television, the Government of Aragon bought me from some of those documentaries. In addition, with what I had done I began to put together what would be the first series of &quot;Oficios Perdidos&quot;, a series of 13 half-hour chapters, in which I collected part of the material that I had already done and something that I did again and Television Espanola He bought me that first series for La2, for his second chain. He assumed that series as his own and was for three, four or five years, broadcasting on different international channels. In these difficult times, I am selling to Television Espanola, but also a friend and an excellent person, who was Lorenzo Acin, wanted to associate with me, to get the production company off the ground and make a production company of considerable weight on a national level. We were collaborating for a number of years until he finally saw that I could get ahead and withdrew from society. I returned his share and I was left alone with Pyrene from now on. With this growth and with this professional recognition that you were acquiring, you went from recording ethnographic cinema, only in Aragon, to also doing it in the rest of Spain. How does this jump come about? From those years of 1992, Leader and Proder groups began to be created in the different counties and rural areas of Spain, which received European subsidies to recover their traditional culture, traditions, to promote the rural environment, etc. So we came to some collaborations with some of these groups from Spain, to make a series of 10, 12 and 14 documentaries about those traditions that they had and that they wanted to perpetuate and spread. Logically, the Canary Islands also incorporated it and in the Canary Islands we made 80 documentaries on these topics. Then there was also a collaboration with the government of Navarra, which annually collected 2, 3, 4 documentaries depending on the length of the duration. Also with the Junta de Castilla y Leon in everything that was its autonomous community. In these years, the volume of work grows a lot and very quickly and that is why you need a larger team and also adequate facilities. Tell us about the evolution of your work team and the company Pyrene, which is the one you started working for, until today. After various ups and downs, a moment came, in 1995, when the situation began to stabilize. My project of continuing to make ethnographic documentaries is already taking shape and starting to work, but I am beginning to need people. There was a stage in which we got to be 20 people. We had three production teams, distributed throughout Spain recording and so on, three post-production teams and me, who practically dedicated myself to writing scripts, organizing trips, production, but above all more focusing on the scripts and controlling the editing. of each of the documentaries. At the level of facilities, it is very curious, because we also started with 80 square meters in a small flat, where the voiceover booth was even in the bathroom, when the announcer came to record, he had to sit in what was the toilet, to be able to do the announcement in a booth that we did. Then we moved on to a single-family home of 180 square meters, but at that time the archive, the tapes and all the storage material were also growing a lot, which practically outgrew us. The solution was to buy a 500-square-meter warehouse, adapt it to our circumstances and our needs , and have room in it for a possible set, in case one day we had to make a program for some television and we would need a set and not have to move to any set. So that was the stage the next stage. Due to my 70 years and my retirement and since you, you and your brother, my children, have not continued with the profession, I am practically alone doing all the activity. I continue with my programs on Canal Cocina, but now practically alone, but yes, enjoying what I am doing a lot. It could be said then, that at your 70 years, you have returned to your origins. That's right, after 40 years of working with the teams I've had, today I do everything myself. I prepare the production, direct and post-production to later distribute the documentary. Now that we have known your entire career, both personal and professional, we are going to talk a little more about all those documentaries that you have been recording over these 40 years. Tell us how you classify them, according to their function and according to their difficulty in recording. I have grouped them into three blocks: The first is that of the trades that are still active, all those in which craftsmen are available, continue to carry out their activity, such as: shoemakers, coopers, boatmen, blacksmiths, extraction of the cork, the grass, the construction of a spire, the barranqueadores, the transhumance... Then there is another block that would be the reconstructions of trades with protagonists. These are the trades that were no longer carried out and had to be reconstructed with the protagonists and their testimonies, such as lime, harvesters, lavender, charcoal, hemp, flax cultivation, pitch ovens, roofs of tablet that we have done recently, etc. Para realizar estos documentales, logicamente, como tenian que reconstruir todos los procesos productivos, de alguna manera habia que remunerar a esta gente que se ofrecia para el trabajo con lo cual yo procuraba conseguir alguna subvencion de la Diputacion provincial o bien de la Diputacion General de Aragon para poder pagarles a estos protagonistas. Luego estaban los oficios que habia que reconstruir pero que no quedaban mas que informacion o documentacion sobre su desarrollo. Este es el caso por ejemplo del pozo de hielo, las neveras de hielo, el poblado cantabro, el cultivo de la escana o por ejemplo tecnologias primitivas. Cada documental es diferente y unico, a la vez que sus protagonistas, ?cual es el proceso que sirve para elaborar cada documental? Hay bastantes fases. Primero es contactar con ese protagonista. El protagonista te lo puede facilitar un pariente o el mismo, un ayuntamiento... Nos dice &quot;oye mira que tenemos aqui un artesano&quot;. Lo importante es su voluntad, que el quiera ser grabado y mostrarnos todo su oficio. Luego venia un plan de produccion, es decir, visitar a ese artesano oa esos artesanos. En este caso por ejemplo, en el viaje a Canarias no se podia ir solamente de uno en uno, sino que hice un viaje por todas las islas para preparar la grabacion de cada uno de los temas que ibamos a recoger en las siete islas. Luego venia la parte de elaboracion de un boceto del guion. No es un guion como tal, sino que se recoge la informacion sobre ese proceso para que cuando te pones a grabar tengas al menos todas esas fases que el artesano va a desarrollar. Hay que tener en cuenta que en esos tiempos no habia Internet y no habia esa informacion que en un momento accedes a ella a traves de Internet. Entonces habia que buscar informacion. Luego venia la etapa de la grabacion, que era lo mas importante. Yo siempre he considerado que no habia que invadir el espacio del artesano. El espacio del artesano, sobre todo un orfebre que era un espacio pequeno que hacia filigranas y demas, no se podia invadir el espacio. El equipo tenia que ser minimo para molestar lo menos posible. Generalmente era un operador de camara y el realizador que tomaba tambien el sonido. En algunos casos cuando eran exteriores ya iban tres personas a hacer ese documental. Lo importante era recoger el maximo de informacion en la grabacion. Habia una ventaja, por ejemplo, si convivias con ellos y estabas con un carbonero en la trashumancia pues ellos te daban mas informacion todavia. Esa convivencia era muy importante. Luego estaban los rituales, fiestas, etcetera. Ahi habia que documentarse muy bien y entrevistar a las personas claves que conocian o habian estudiado ese tipo de fiestas. Era practicamente recogida de informacion. La grabacion, cuanto mas exhaustiva fuera, mucho mejor, porque luego ya venia la fase siguiente: elaboracion del guion y visionado de todo el material. Con ese visionado del material ya elaboramos el guion, y sobre el trabajabamos y estructurabamos. Generalmente un proceso productivo, desde el principio desde la materia prima hasta obtener el producto final, era un proceso continuado, y una fiesta lo mismo. Entonces se elaboraba el guion. Ese material es el guion escrito que se pasaba a postproduccion y los editores, como ya practicamente conocian perfectamente mi estilo de narrativa, pues ellos eran los que iban montando el documental. Yo cada dia iba por las tres mesas de edicion e iba comprobando y como estaba el proceso de montaje por si habia que hacer correcciones y demas. Luego venia la fase final, es decir cuando ya teniamos terminado el documental lo primero que haciamos era enviarselo al protagonista, para que fuera el protagonista el que aprobara lo que el habia hecho y habia dicho de todo el proceso. El era el primero que veia el documental. Si el nos lo aprobaba, ya lo poniamos en distribucion y lo preparabamos para ponerlo dentro de nuestras colecciones. Como dices todos, los documentales los hemos agrupando en series y colecciones como estas. ?como surgio la idea de agruparlos en estas series y cuantas colecciones tienes a dia de hoy? El objetivo principal era recuperar las tradiciones, pero cuando tienes muchos documentales pues te planteas formar bloques tematicos para su posible distribucion. En aquellos tiempos logicamente empezo con el VHS y luego vino el DVD, etcetera. Como veis, hay diferentes colecciones, pero la mas importante fue la de &quot;Oficios Perdidos&quot;. &quot;Oficios Perdidos&quot; es sin duda la que mas exito ha tenido y la que mas gusta. Cuenta con 33 colecciones, mas de 165 DVDS y mas de 800 documentales. Luego estan &quot;Los Fogones Tradicionales&quot;, compuesta por nueve colecciones de cinco DVDs cada una, con un total de 200 documentales y unas 500 recetas. &quot;La Construccion Tradicional&quot; en la que se muestran gran cantidad de tecnicas artesanales y populares sobre construccion y arquitectura tradicional de nuestros pueblos. Mas de 30 horas de entretenimiento en 21 DVDs. Luego esta &quot;Indumentaria Tradicional&quot; con un total de 26 documentales sobre la vestimenta popular de nuestros pueblos en Espana. Otra coleccion interesante es &quot;Instrumentos musicales&quot; en la que he podido recuperar y recopilar todos aquellos procesos artesanales de elaboracion de gran parte de esos instrumentos populares. Otra serie es &quot;La Espana Prodigiosa&quot; que consta de siete colecciones de cinco DVDs cada uno, con unos 250 documentales sobre fiestas, rituales y tradiciones de Espana. Luego estan los documentales de biografias, por ejemplo &quot;Sender&quot;, sobre Ramon J.Sender, otro sobre &quot;Orwell en el frente de Aragon&quot;, sobre &quot;Joaquin Costa&quot;, &quot;Felix de Azara&quot;, etcetera. En fin, personajes importantes de nuestra historia. Tambien documentales de historia, por ejemplo sobre &quot;La Sotonera, historia de un embalse&quot;, &quot;La Bolsa de Bielsa&quot;, temas sobre la Guerra Civil en Extremadura, en Cataluna, Belchite, los pueblos de colonizacion, por ejemplo. La serie mas importante en este sentido es la de &quot;Las iIusiones Perdidas&quot;. Este es el trabajo mas importante de todos los que realice sobre temas historicos, porque fueron 15 anos de grabacion. 100 personajes vinculados a esta etapa historica. Era una composicion de 12 DVDs de una hora cada uno. En esta serie de &quot;Las Ilusiones Perdidas&quot; se narra la historia de aquellos espanoles que partieron al exilio, participaron en la resistencia contra los alemanes y muchos de ellos, convertidos en maquis o guerrilleros, cruzaron los Pirineos con la idea de devolver a Espana la Republica y la Democracia. Otras series son &quot;Los Rincones de Espana&quot;, &quot;Juegos tradicionales&quot;, documentales de naturaleza, de dances, de arte y patrimonio, caza y pesca tradicional, etc. En fin, muchas series. Son muchas las colecciones y DVDs que nos has enumerado, pero por poner una cifra y unos datos mas concretos, a dia de hoy ?cuantos documentales tienes registrados? A dia de hoy son pues unos 3.200 documentales, asi como veis aqui en todas las colecciones, y sobre todo lo que es importante es el archivo de diapositivas, porque en cada grabacion tratabamos de hacer fotografias de todo el proceso para tener tambien un archivo fotografico, ya que eran procesos que iban a desaparecer. Tengo unas 350.000 diapositivas en el formato de 35 milimetros y el de 6 x 7 de gran calidad, que forman parte de un archivo de diapositivas, pero luego estan las fotografias digitales que logicamente, cuando aparece la fotografia digital, pues todo lo hemos hecho en digital y ahi ya estamos hablando de miles, miles y miles pero no te puedo dar una cantidad exacta. Grabar 3.200 documentales es muchisimo. Seguro que tienes varias anecdotas que contarnos sobre estas grabaciones. Cuentanos. Anecdotas muchisimas, por ejemplo recuerdo cuando fuimos a grabar la fiesta de la rama en el valle de Agaete, que se duerme arriba en el monte Tamadaba. Al amanecer bajaba la gente con las ramas por el monte, por los senderos y te esperaban para refrescarte en pleno 29 de junio con un caldo caliente caliente y picante. Otra anecdota fue con los buitres que los estuvimos grabando y de repente nos metimos en el hide esperando ahi de noche a que aparecieran los buitres pero no aparecian. Nos explicaron que los cuervos, que son los primeros que llegan, son los que avisan con las alas a los buitres con el aleteo para decirles que hay un peligro. El peligro era que estabamos nosotros metidos en un hide. Hay muchisimas, con los pastores, la convivencia con los pastores. Dormir a la intemperie con ellos, hacer las cabaneras, etc. He hecho cinco cabaneras con ellos, entonces ahi es donde de verdad surgen anecdotas, como dormir a la intemperie. Una vez nos cayo una tormenta que nos tuvimos que refugiar como pudimos porque como llevabamos material electrico que podia atraer a los rayos pues tambien era peligroso. Una anecdota muy importante era cuando deje de ser vegetariano, porque en mis primeros tiempos en aquella epoca yo era vegetariano y tuve que grabar en San Juan de Plan en el mes de enero la fabricacion del yeso, como se hacia el yeso a la intemperie, y queria para comer una manzana y yo estaba viendo que habia un gran caldero de caldo. Entre Josefina, la tia Serena y Anita estaban preparando ahi la comida y yo de repente pues dije &quot;no&quot;, entre una manzana y un buen caldo con un cacho carne, prefiero dejar de ser vegetariano ya partir de entonces ya deje de ser vegetariano. Hablando de tia Serena, que es una de las protagonistas mas queridas de tus documentales, ?podrias contarnos mas sobre otras personas con la que has grabado que han sido protagonistas y que tienes un recuerdo especial? Han muchisimas las personas, pero siempre hay algunas que has colaborado mas que has compartido mas horas con ellas, mas vivencias y demas. En este caso quiero agradecer a todas estas personas y las que por supuesto me voy a olvidar algunos porque no voy a poder citar a todos, pero si hay que destacar a la gente de San Juan de Plan como Josefina Loste, Anita, tia Serena, Alfredo , etc. Toda esta gente en el momento en que yo les proponia la grabacion de cualquier tema de sus tradiciones siempre estaban dispuestos a recuperarlo ya prepararlo. Si no eran ellos los que me llamaban rapidamente; &quot;Eugenio, vamos a preparar esto y lo tienes que grabar. Esto no se puede perder&quot;. Habia una iniciativa muy personal de ellos. Luego estaba por ejemplo Hilario Artigas con su mujer Pilar, su hijo Eugenio con los que hemos hecho muchos documentales desde carboneras, adobes, tapial, cultivo del lino, etcetera. Tambien son entranables la gente de Quintanar de la Sierra y la Real Cabana de Carreteros con los que Fabian, Antonio Martin, etcetera. Con ellos grabamos desde los pezgeros, el chozo de carchones, el carbon de brezo, la vaca serrana, en fin, muchos documentales. Ahora mas recientemente estamos recuperando algunas tradiciones en Navarra en la que dos personajes, Javier Goikoa y Jesus Mari hemos hecho juntos los barranqueadores en el rio Irati, los tejados de tablilla, etc. En fin, varios documentales ya que ellos ponen la voluntad de querer recuperar esas tradiciones. Estos personajes son entranables y desde aqui les mando las gracias. Desgraciadamente han pasado los anos, entonces muchos de estos personajes se grabaron hace 30, 35 o 40 anos y la mayoria han muerto es ley de vida. Siempre se merecen aunque sea un pequeno homenaje a traves del recuerdo en estos documentales. Como bien dices ya han pasado mas de 30 anos desde que grabaste estos documentales en los anos 90, ?como has vivido esta transformacion digital y tecnologica que ha ido evolucionando con los anos? Ha habido una evolucion bastante notable. Yo la dividiria en dos ambitos, por una parte el de produccion y por otra parte el de distribucion. En produccion destacaria desde aquellos Super 8, una cinta estrechisima. Pasabamos al 16 milimetros, pero luego ya vino el video y empezamos con el Hi-8 pequeno, una cintita pequena de Hi-8 domestica, para pasar al VHS de grabacion o betamax, Umatic alta banda, fijaros que cinta. Luego ya pasamos al Betacam SP, luego pasamos al digital, mas pequena la cinta, y ahora todo esto se recoge en este disco duro que tenemos igual pues alrededor de 150 o 200 documentales. En la distribucion ocurre lo mismo, distribuimos primero en VHS y luego ya la distribucion vino en DVD ya partir de ahora pues todo por descargas en nuestra pagina web se puede descargar el documental o bien ya la difusion que estamos haciendo. Lo que no has tenido que modernizar es el papel, que aunque no nos lo has contado has escrito varios libros. Cuentanos sobre ellos. Aparte de libros tambien he publicado muchisimos articulos en revistas sobre temas de etnografia y demas, pero los principales libros han sido que en el ano 1992 el Gobierno de Aragon me encargo un libro sobre labores tradicionales en Aragon. Al ano siguiente me encargo un segundo tomo que es este y luego en el ano 2003, con la editorial Pirineo, empezamos a hacer una serie que se titulaba &quot;Labores de un milenio&quot;, pero solo hicimos el primer capitulo porque fue un momento en el que ya entre en la gran produccion y mi programa &quot;Nos vemos en la plaza mayor&quot;, y mas programa de television y ya no tenia practicamente tiempo para continuar. En ese mismo ano 1992-93 con el Periodico de Aragon sacamos una serie de fasciculos con sus correspondientes DVDs que se llamaba &quot;Aragon: Asi vivimos&quot;. Eran fasciculos en los que contaba tradiciones de nuestra tierra aragonesa. Recientemente Editorial Planeta, junto con Canal Cocina, han publicado el libro de &quot;Los Fogones Tradicionales&quot; con unas 300 recetas de mi programa que tengo en esa cadena. &quot;Nos vemos en la plaza mayor&quot;, &quot;Los fogones tradicionales&quot;, &quot;El secreto de las piedras&quot;, &quot;Raices vivas&quot;, etc. Todos estos son algunos de los programas de television que has dirigido, producido y presentado a lo largo de estos anos. Si te parece para conocerlos un poco mejor cuentanos uno por uno cronologicamente como son y como se han producido. Como ya te he dicho, la primera serie que se emitio en Television Espanola, en La2, fue &quot;Oficios Perdidos&quot; y era una serie que yo presentaba cada uno de los temas. Hasta hace muy pocos anos, quienes convertian la lana esquilada de las ovejas en ovillos como este y tejian con ellos sweaters como el que llevo puesto, eran las llamadas hilanderas. Luego me encargo Television Espanola varias series de oficios perdidos, cuando ya tenia mas produccion, para emitirlas por el Canal Internacional de Television Espanola. Centrandonos en la produccion tematica y para televisiones empezaremos por &quot;Los Fogones Tradicionales&quot;. &quot;Los Fogones Tradicionales&quot; fue una serie que realice, grabe y monte para Canal Cocina. En ella he mostrado siempre el proceso de elaboracion de diversos platos tradicionales de nuestra cocina popular en Espana. Elaborado siempre por personas que han conservado las viejas recetas heredadas de sus antepasados. Posteriormente, los programas solo se producian y grababan de forma exclusiva para Canal Cocina. A dia de hoy llevamos 21 temporadas de esta serie, dos nuevas que nos han encargado, y espero que todavia pueda realizar algunas mas. Como curiosidad, tambien te voy a decir que &quot;Los Fogones Tradicionales&quot; es la serie mas longeva en la television en Espana relacionada con gastronomia, que lleva desde el ano 2.000 emitiendose ininterrumpidamente y cada vez tiene esta teniendo mas audiencia. Otra serie que tambien he realizado era sobre temas de caza y pesca. En el ano 2001 realice para el canal &quot;Caza y pesca&quot; una serie de 10 capitulos que se titulaba aprovechamientos tradicionales de la caza. En ella trataba de mostrar esos aprovechamientos que el hombre habia hecho, tanto de los animales como de sus partes: pieles, el pelo, etcetera Tambien mostre la union de las tecnicas tradicionales de caza, los conocimientos ancentrales y sobre todo las manos artesanas. Desde ese ano, para este canal he venido realizando varios temas sobre la practica de estas actividades deportivas. Luego esta el programa &quot;Nos vemos en la plaza mayor&quot;. Mi faceta como presentador fue mas activa en ese programa que se inicio en Aragon Television en el ano 2006 y estuvimos con el programa hasta el ano 2012, es decir, 6 anos produciendo mas de 300 programas. &quot;Nos vemos en la plaza mayor&quot; era un programa de 30 minutos que comenzo emitiendose en la sobremesa de los sabados y los domingos, pero luego paso a ser solo de emision en domingo, pero de una hora de duracion. Tuvo una buena acogida y buenos datos de audiencia durante todas las emisiones que hicimos. Para que el invitado y los espectadores formaran parte de esa tradicion popular creamos un plato que simulaba la plaza de un pueblo a tamano real. Un pueblo imaginario de Aragon. La verdad es que era muy curioso porque paseabas por el plato y era como si pasearas por un pueblo imaginario de Aragon. Era un programa que por su contenido lo veian todos los miembros de la familia, en muchos casos las tres generaciones que convivian bajo un mismo techo. El programa tenia varias partes, en primer lugar la entrevista. En ella yo entrevistaba a un personaje que habia escrito algun libro o habia publicado algo de interes o hacia alguna actividad importante dentro de su pueblo. Luego poniamos fragmentos o documentales enteros relacionados con oficios, actividades productivas, etcetera. Siempre documentales de mi archivo. Poco antes del intermedio, poniamos una receta de mis &quot;Fogones tradicionales&quot;, de los fogones que yo iba recogiendo por los pueblos. En ese momento ya venia el la parte de publicidad, del descanso, pero siempre les dejaba con una palabra aragonesa para que entre los miembros de la familia buscaran ese significado de la palabra. -?Saben que quiere decir &quot;escorcotar&quot;? No se vayan pues enseguida nos vemos en la plaza mayor. Con todos los documentales que me habian sobrado cuando ya dejamos &quot;Nos vemos en la plaza mayor&quot; en el ano 2012, fue cuando prepare una serie de 20 capitulos de 60 minutos bajo el titulo &quot;Memoria y tradiciones de Aragon&quot; en la que practicamente recogia los mismos temas, es decir, de oficios dances, indumentaria, etcetera. A partir de alli fue cuando prepare una serie que se titulaba &quot;Los secretos de las piedras en Aragon&quot;. Tras terminar &quot;Nos vemos en la plaza mayor&quot;, y tras una ralentizacion de un ano aproximadamente en la produccion, en el ano 2013 volvi a Aragon Television con el programa &quot;Los secretos de las piedras&quot;. Este era un programa semanal de 30 minutos que conto con dos temporadas completas. El programa era fruto de mi interes y de mis investigaciones sobre diversas piedras rituales y funcionales que existian en el alto Aragon. Lo propuse a Aragon Television y aceptaron mi proyecto. En este programa trate de desentranar e interpretar todos esos secretos que guardan muchas de esas piedras que nuestros antepasados adoraron, respetaron, convirtieron en idolos y que fueron el origen de muchas leyendas e historias que se han transmitido de generacion en generacion. Investigaciones, piedras rituales, cuevas, lagares rupestres, piedras con leyenda, usos funcionales, etc. Ademas, habia una pieza en el intermedio en la que Manolo Macias, como pintor, realizaba muy rapido, en 1 o 2 minutos, una acuarela relacionada con alguna de las leyendas que habiamos puesto en este programa. A raiz de todas estas investigaciones sobre piedras rituales, se creo en el Instituto de Estudios Altoaragoneses una pagina web que se titula &quot;Piedras sagradas&quot; en la que colabore junto con Jose Miguel Navarro y Josefina Roma exponiendo todos los trabajos que hasta este momento llevaba realizados sobre este tipo de piedras rituales. Con Aragon Television continue luego con una serie que se titulaba &quot;Raices vivas&quot; que tambien presentaba yo, de la que se hicieron 49 capitulos de media hora, tambien recogiendo tradiciones, costumbres y demas. De todas estas actividades relacionadas con la television lo unico que mantengo en este momento es mi serie de &quot;Los Fogones Tradicionales&quot; en Canal Cocina, que ya lleva mas de 20 anos en antena y que con ilusion continuo realizandolo por todo Espana. Gracias por hacernos este recorrido por todos los programas de television que has producido, dirigido y presentado, pero la trayectoria en los medios de comunicaciones no termina aqui, sino que en 2020 creaste tu canal de Youtube. Cuentanos como surgio esta idea. Dado que ya habia terminado mis etapas de television y ya tenia programas, salvo &quot;Los Fogones Tradicionales&quot;, que continuo con el. Lo que si que queria era difundir todos estos documentales y todo este archivo que llevaba hecho a lo largo de mas de 40 anos. Entonces fue cuando contigo y con tu hermano Dario, que es el que se esta encargando de la grabacion, propusisteis que pusieramos todo este archivo en Youtube. El exito ha sido bastante rotundo, sobre todo en el primer ano, porque superamos los 500.000 suscriptores y hemos superado tambien los mas de 100 millones de visionados. En fin, el canal va continuamente en aumento y eso es importante. Tus documentales han llegado a mas de 100 paises, y al dia recibes y contestas cientos de comentarios, todos positivos, ?que sentiste al convertirte en Youtuber con 69 anos? Para mi convertirme en Youtuber fue una enorme sorpresa, porque de repente veo que mis documentales se estan viendo en multitud de paises, desde Estados Unidos, Mexico, Argentina, Rusia, Chile, Iran, India... Para mi eso es una satisfaccion. Luego la satisfaccion viene cuando diariamente yo contesto a todos esos comentarios que los espectadores estan haciendo de mis documentales, generalmente y afortunadamente siempre positivos, felicitandome por el archivo que he puesto a disposicion de todo el publico. Esa interactuacion con el espectador para mi es muy novedosa, porque eso no se daba nunca en la television. Lo que mas me ha sorprendido de Youtube es precisamente que yo creia que los espectadores de mis documentales iban a ser gente de 50, 60 o 70 anos, y sin embargo me sorprende que veo que hay muchisimos jovenes entre 20 y 24 anos que son fieles seguidores de mi canal de Youtube y me felicitan por el trabajo hecho. Despues de este exito tan inesperado que sufriste con Youtube en 2020, ?crees que tus documentales podran hacerse un hueco en plataformas y redes sociales del futuro? Yo creo que estos documentales cada vez van a tener mas valor, porque sera mucho mas dificil de poderlos grabar y de poder conseguir esos viejos oficios. De momento estoy presente ya en Youtube, en Facebook, en Instagram, TikTok y Twitter. D esde aqui os animo a los suscriptores del canal a que me sigais. En la descripcion os dejo mis perfiles de las redes sociales. No solo has recibido el reconocimiento de tus seguidores y suscriptores del canal, sino que a lo largo de estos 40 anos son muchos los premios, reconocimientos y distinciones que te han otorgado, ?cuales destacarias? Hay una etapa que hasta los anos 90, en mi primera etapa de Super 8, que si que obtuve alrededor de unos 150 premios, entre los que habia alguno tambien del Ministerio de Cultura. Yo destacaria en este momento pues el premio Felix de Azara, que es este quebrantahuesos, destacaria tambien la medalla al Merito Cultural del Gobierno de Aragon, pero no solamente los premios, sino tambien los reconocimientos y el poder ser participe o parte de instituciones como puede ser la Asociacion Espanola de Cine Cientifico, de la que soy miembro y de los fundadores, y tambien soy miembro de la Real Academia de las Nobles y Bellas Artes de San Luis de Zaragoza. Y sobre todo, el ultimo premio y mas curioso para mi es el de Youtube, por haber llegado y superado los 100.000 suscriptores. Me dieron lo que se llama el &quot;Boton de plata&quot;, que para mi es un orgullo dentro de esta via de difusion de mis programas. Como hijos tuyos, ha sido un placer entrevistarte y conocer en profundidad tu vida y trayectoria en este documental biografico. Para terminar, resumenos en tres palabras como han sido para ti estos 40 anos de trabajo y dedicacion. Constancia, ilusion y curiosidad. Esas son las claves para haber podido construir todo este archivo de audiovisuales etnograficos. Quiero dar las gracias a esas instituciones ya esas personas que me han apoyado a lo largo de estos 40 anos de trayectoria, y por supuesto a los espectadores que hoy me estan siguiendo ya esos suscriptores que hoy siguen este canal de Youtube. Y sobre todo, un agradecimiento muy especial a los protagonistas de los documentales. Ellos han sido la clave, ellos han ofrecido sus conocimientos, su trabajo, su esfuerzo y no han dudado en ningun momento en prestarse para salir ante la camara. Estas son las claves. Desde aqui lo que si querria es que no se perdiera este carino por nuestras tradiciones, nuestras costumbres y esos viejos oficios que practicamente estan desapareciendo.