(upbeat music) - [Narrator] Meal kit companies set out to disrupt grocery stores and change the way we cook at home. Now, there's 382 of them in the US, a 300% increase from a decade ago, when they were just 13. Despite industry-wide growth, the meal kit model faces an obstacle, you. Of all the people who tried one of five major meal about 90% canceled their subscription by the end of the year. - Human behavior is very fickle, especially when it comes - [Narrator] And now, Blue Apron, one of the earliest players is selling. This is The Economics of Meal Kits. This graph shows the between the major meal Sunbasket and Marley Blue Apron and Home Chef took 6 and 12% while HelloFresh and its But no matter their size, many of these companies use to find and keep customers, price point, convenience, and variety. First, get the customer. Meal kit companies focus a - [Presenter 1] Here's for under $5. - [Presenter 3] Get 1.49 per meal. - Our biggest competitor - [Narrator] Which is why say, &quot;It's cheaper to buy meal - Wherever you source the ingredients to do home cooking from scratch yourself, that's our competition in some way. - [Narrator] But what makes that possible? - It's all about economies of scale. - [Narrator] Brian Choi on the food and beverage and he says that, &quot;When it comes to keeping grocery stores have an advantage over most meal kit companies because of the volume of But similarly, the meal kit companies that are best positioned to offer the lowest price are the biggest ones, like HelloFresh.&quot; - Economies of scale allow to get a better margin on the product, and then to reinvest parts of that margin, either into a better customer experience or into lower pricing. - [Narrator] Which means that at times, the company can compete but on a per-meal basis, buying the ingredients still tends to be cheaper, that you can always buy fewer ingredients or go for cheaper options. Whereas the minimum you and Blue Apron in a week is $60.95, $12.49 per meal, at - It's sometimes hard to get people over the purchase barrier. That's why incentives are a key part of our marketing or growth playbook. For every dollar that we spend on getting that group of customers, it takes about six months to actually earn that dollar - [Narrator] Which makes the next step all the more important, These are the customer retention rates for the same five meal In less than a year, they all lost the vast that bought their first One possible reason everyone - They're doing their own mental calculus. They're like, &quot;Wow, $12 meal you know, based on the promotional rate.&quot; - [Narrator] When you at a severe discount, you may get more people to try it, but when the discount goes away and they have to pay full price, it may not be worth - One thing about the American consumer is they don't like - [Narrator] So how do companies One way is to offer the discounts again, and hope that they entice And another is to add more - The biggest value - [Narrator] The big thing is a convenient way to cook at home. They ship to your door and give you pre-portioned ingredients for relatively simple recipes. - But when you stack that versus the other options that the collective value proposition has diminished significantly. - [Narrator] With restaurants offering delivery to your door, it's hard for meal kits to offer a unique and getting pre-portioned ingredients maybe more convenient if you But Americans only cook an average of 4.5 meals at home per week. But companies across the meal kit industry are expanding their offerings, and one of the common ones it's just pre-made meals. - [Announcer 1] Factor has and then they deliver - [Announcer 2] They have oven-ready meals with everything included and fast and fresh meals that can be done in 15 minutes. - As you grow your customer base and you grow your assortment, you also tend to give - [Narrator] And more choice means you're more likely to get customers to spend more with your company, but it's yet to be seen how much these new offerings across meal kit companies, plus retention rates aren't everything. Looking back at this chart, Blue Apron sits slightly above the rest, which Choi says, &quot;May be because it offers slightly more But Blue Aprons' revenue has then, there's profit, Both HelloFresh and Blue Apron got off the ground by raising hundreds of in 2017, they both went public, then their paths split. Blue Apron's revenue has slowly declined with just a slight increase during the industry's pandemic boom. HelloFresh on the other hand, has been consistently Looking at its revenue, even after the pandemic shutdowns ended and people could eat at restaurants again. - Once you establish yourself it becomes very, very hard to be disrupted because you need to solve over and over again to - [Narrator] While both faced stark drops in their share prices, the New York Stock Exchange after its stock dipped below a dollar, the company shifted to an and offloading many of its Then it announced its a food delivery startup, and return to being a private company. Another key step is to differentiate. The barriers to enter the meal which is partly why there are so many meal - But the barriers to scale and build a big business - [Narrator] And why it's important for each one to stand out Take Methodology, a small that started in 2015, it doesn't offer meal kits at all, instead, Methodology sends out four or five days' worth of pre-made meals with ingredients you're less like nopales, cacti, and purslane. - Our audience is basically who I was when I started the business. They're really time-starved, so they don't have time to cook and as far as their incomes, most are making in the if not more than that. - [Narrator] Most other companies around $8 to $15 per But Methodology costs - Our sweet spot actually is men who live on takeout 'cause they're already doing it three to four times a week minimum, they're spending 35 on average per meal. - [Narrator] And it at nearly the same rate The average discount for a Methodology Kit is 10% off a customer's first week. Nguyen says, &quot;This model to be profitable from year two.&quot; - We have customers who have spent over a hundred thousand dollars with us because we really are a lifestyle - We're operating in one of the largest consumer categories out there, which is food at home. So in my view, a large category will always attract sort of like new business models, new entrants in the category, and so on. - [Narrator] Grand View the revenue across the will reach $64.27 billion by 2030. - Do I believe the numbers? - I think they're probably - I don't know what the food industry will look like in five or 10 years, but I do think that we in shaping the future I think in 10 years, we'll probably see one or two major players in the industry still operating in that space. I'll also expect to see some companies that have gone bankrupt or acquired by some of the larger players. (rhythmic music)