This is a NASA engineer trying to fix a hydrogen The scary thing is, he is 60 meters up and Saturn 5. At launch, the Saturn 5 contained over two If the rocket suddenly exploded, it would at the pad would be killed. But if there was an emergency that gave them there was a chance that they could survive. Located 12 meters below the launch pad is bunker that was designed to save astronauts We modeled the entire thing - and in this the bunker and how a group of 20 people could We'll also be giving away this awesome Space end of the video to see how you could win. If the Saturn 5 had exploded on the pad it a kilometer wide and over a thousand degrees And so, in the event of an imminent disaster, to make their way to the bunker - and they But the bunker was buried deep beneath the So how did they actually get there? The crew had to make their way to level A 2 storey structure that supported the Saturn Once it arrived at the pad, a small hatch that stuck out from the launch pad. This was a 60 meter long slide that started the concrete launch pad until it reached the At the top of the slide, a sprinkler would down the chute more easily. In just seconds, they would start to pick into the depths of the launch pad. After falling down a steep drop they would This room was lined by thick walls of rubber, the energy from an explosion. The rubber at the end of the slide was also didn't always work. During testing, the water would build up at them down, it caused them to slide all the One worker actually broke several bones in From here, the crew would make their way through actual bunker was. This room hasn't been accessible for decades to enter. One thing that is very accessible though, on CuriosityStream, the sponsor of today's CuriosityStream offers a wide range of documentaries technology and more, so there's something And with new content dropping every week, CuriosityStream offers plans starting at under a front-row seat to the universe for the price You can watch on your TV, computer, or mobile Personally, I've been watching "Trajectory: celebrates our biggest achievements in spaceflight Hubble Telescope. For unlimited access to the world's top documentaries or scan the QR code and use the code PRIMALSPACE After making their way down the slide, the From there, they would enter through a passageway featuring 20 chairs that the crew would strap The dome itself was made out of super thick blast pressure of up to 500 psi. To put this into perspective, the blast pressure for humans at around 40 psi. In order to protect everyone inside from the on a series of 24 giant springs. These disconnected the room from the surrounding material to travel through. The blast from an explosion could cause an what you'd expect to feel in a car crash. These springs would absorb most of that acceleration crew inside perfectly safe. But if such a large explosion occurred, it would travel all the way down the slide in That's where these enormous blast-proof Made from several inches thick steel, these them from the shockwaves. These could be locked from either side by to hook into the wall. Once the crew were locked inside, they would had passed. But with up to 20 people in a sealed room, to rise and breathing would become very difficult. And so, to treat the air, a carbon dioxide This machine worked by passing the ambient the CO2 molecules and separate them from the The clean air was then pumped back out of In order to create more oxygen, there was iron powder and sodium chlorate at around For every 1kg of mixture inside, each candle person. Next to all of this was the storage area which The food was mainly C-rations and K-rations, the 2nd World War. The K-rations came in three separate boxes Each meal contained stuff like meat, cheese, - giving each crew member around 3,000 calories There was an industrial waste bin in the center of the seats. Although it would be an unpleasant place to a little bit of privacy. All in all, there was enough food and water But in most circumstances, the crew would toxic fumes around the launch pad had dissipated. But how would they actually escape the bunker? When it was time to leave, the crew had two After leaving the bunker through the other tunnel. This was 360 meters long and would take them edge of the launch site. This building was essentially a giant fan into the rooms below the launch pad. After walking for around 10 minutes through finally escape to freedom. But if the tunnel was somehow blocked from and choose the alternative escape route. Right next to the tunnel was a door that led a labyrinth of rooms and corridors beneath outside world. But with such a large explosion, the damage were concerned that the crew could become And so, to add to the list of safety precautions, top of the blast room. This didn't actually lead anywhere. But in the event of the escape routes being and sand within the launch pad to reach the Thankfully, none of this ever needed to be The bunker was never used - and after the an incredible piece of NASA history frozen Over the years, the bunker fell into disrepair bunker. Now, only a select group of people have access remain untouched for many more decades. And now time for something really special. The winner of last month's giveaway is Tony In the next video we'll be giving away this All you have to do is sign up at the link think NASA should do with the bunker now. Thank you very much for watching, and I'll