So, you want me to share... ...how to paint like Rembrandt? Ha! Allow me to enlighten you... ...no one paints like Rembrandt, Yet it won't hurt to tell you about As you know, I am the greatest What you might not know is Master painters such as Ferdinand Bol, ...have all been taught by me. You truly cannot wish Welcome... ...to my first lesson in 350 years. Over six lessons I will you teach you... ...the techniques of one of ...the portrait. In this first lesson ...on the art of excellent ...guidelines and volumes, Let us begin with the composition. The way in which you depict your portrait That is why the composition The placement and size of your portrait If you draw your model head-on, ...you convey a dignified The ladies and gentlemen in high society ...preferred this depiction. Yet if you tilt the head slightly, A dynamic image... ...can also move your viewer by invoking Look at how I depicted Jesus... ...or myself as the Apostle Paul... ...you see saints, but you also sense The size of the head ...can also evoke this type of feeling. You can do a small sketch of the head ...or conversely, you can sketch a large head Never forget how important ...and surface are for your portrait. We are now going to delve To get the right sense of form and ratio... ...it may help to begin ...pots, pans, landscapes, That is, after all, how I got started. We will start with simple guidelines. The proportions of a face If you would like to sketch a face, Draw a horizontal line This creates the eye line. Split the bottom half ...and you will have established If you split the bottom part ...you have the height of the mouth. Guidelines are relatively simple to draw... ...on a face you are looking straight at As soon as you rotate the head, When your model does a quarter turn, However, if you are looking directly ...bending forwards or backwards, ..but becomes much shorter. In addition, the horizontal lines If this hasn't made you roll ...then I invite you to consider ...three-quarters and tilt it forwards Nothing is as it was... ...and all the guidelines Quite complex The volumes are just as important. You need them to assist the interplay Reconsider the head as one large volume. Within that volume ...such as the forehead, ...jaws, chin and the volume You can see even smaller volumes ...lips, eye socket and eye ball. If you are bright, ...you will also be drawing ...where the adjacent volumes ...after all, This type of outline will come in handy... ...when you need to shape these volumes ...and add the finer contours in the face. An oil painting requires ...and drying time. That is why we will start A true Rembrandt is characterised... ...by a unique contrast To achieve this, I use nothing else Apply two layers of oil paint ...a terracotta layer of ochre... ...a touch of filler and linseed oil. Allow this layer to properly dry ...that is light enough ...but dark enough to cover the white. I prefer using grey mixed ...but you may use the water ...you clean your brush in. The colour of mud, as you can see. Allow both layers to properly dry. This takes roughly A dry, light and warm room Once the canvas has dried... ...we can start by drawing I always show my pupils examples ...so they can master the skill We are working from the example... ...of my painting Many of my fellow artists produce ...before they apply paint. Masters such as myself ...trust the flick of our wrists. If you do not have a great deal ...it is a good idea to sketch If you are using chalk, white or red It is better not to use black chalk ...as they may spoil your colours Dear pupil... ...please remember that you may only draw Be careful not to be the one I catch ...in the face on this type of portrait. The nose, ears, mouth and hair To be more precise, ...Well, we have reached If you think that producing ...that you simply wait ...and the moment it does, ...magically appear on the canvas... ...let me direct you to the tavern... ...where you can brag Inspiration is claptrap Artistry, mastery, begins with a method... ...with precise preparation, Once you have mastered ...your artistic skills Practise what we have learnt today We have covered preparation. In the next session, ...the underpainting, to be more precise.