Worship at the end of the day is just Lord, what that heart posture and we see anything that is out in your obedience to whatever it is the Lord's The Lord put His finger on alcohol in my life and there's this time where Lord put His finger and I just knew it and I was like from that point I'm that's the Lord. The Lord is coming. He's going to season to bring the whole of your life, all out, you're not just cutting out, you're filling lovely, you know true like you're learning to fill episode! I am thrilled to introduce our guest worship leader and an author who has deeply music world. Many of you recognize Jeremy from King of my Heart' and my favorite one, 'His Name settings worldwide. Currently, Jeremy is leading wholehearted where he continues to inspire, equip the worship movement. His book that has I would take off online and something regularly that I do mountains and every once in a while, I would grab but I actually downloaded this book, 'The Reset myself but this one was a journey of somebody's God's balance and purity in the middle of that. the book, I sent it to our worship director the worship team, it's a requirement before they been really blessed by that but it's not only for people who aspire to do great things with God, who Jeremy, welcome to HungryGen. Welcome to the Holy today. I know. Me too. It is an honor to be here we're just jumping right into the thick of it but grateful for just the presence of the Holy Spirit that you walk in and you know before this is that because it's something I need so much more of are contending for here and it's just, it's lifted ways we've been of... the Lord's used each other's a few conferences ago, so each time we would have time I sent you a screenshot where all of our before special deliverance services and the song, and it would just be on repeat and so definitely, a lot of people. So I just want to say thank you to know Jesus? Did you grow up in the Christian such a beautiful question. I was raised yes a I'm one of seven kids. So I'm the second born and environment initially but my home environment was church which you know we dearly loved but my and so my dad was... both my mom and my dad were my home environment as you know worship at church and hymn books but worship at home was my dad on Jesus movement songs you know and so I would say formation you know and to this day, I look at the that they walked with the Lord. My dad probably people. Mostly, he was the worship leader for his he did that so consistently. So I remember waking foggy and I would hear my dad in the corner of the Lord in song and that was just kind of normal life the fullness of the calling that God has for you, stepping into this is because this was so modeled What I'm walking in now I don't even know where I of things and I go, oh that was so formed in me for you know for Jesus and so and of course as you have to go on your journey and your faith has different things and my young adult years. I heart to the Lord when I was eight years old and with the Lord but learning how to steward that all adult years, it was... I wasn't trying to follow my own ambitions. I wanted to be a rock and roll inclining to music from a young age. Yes, very heart like in a huge way but I think and it's know saved or that type of a thing but I didn't yielding you know to the Lord and the biggest in my life was were my dreams, my ambitions and you know being a rock star and all of that. I was want to... I was like I wasn't ready for the I mostly know and so I kind of resisted that and going okay Lord, you can have my whole life and I attraction at all until there was surrender and Was that like a moment or was that a season? It that season but it was a season and it started sweet dad you know but and he just challenged me, road and you don't know if this is what the Lord you to meet with at least three pastors. He just angry. I felt unseen and misunderstood and all the you know I'll go meet with pastors and the first pursuing the kingdom and you know your hearts for just asked me questions. He didn't ever give me about life? What do you believe about life in him to guided questions that address lies that I needed to trust the Lord with my life and I to lay down music and I needed to lay down my did and it wasn't like this heaven open you know a little confusing but the Lord began to do it was my rock band. I had it for like five years a Christian band. I mean we were trying to be like sneaky Christian you know yeah, it wasn't like fully yielded life and so when I finally made wrote coming out of that was a song sweetly broken a big hit. Yeah it became a significant song but know it was just like here's the surrender that here I am in this moment of finally giving you realizing that this is a place of encounter and your worship ministry was birthed? Absolutely. from my young ages, the Lord's hand on my life and years old, 23 years old, that was like oh Lord I of worship and what you're after it. Reminds talks about Moses, it says that his mom by faith all the sacrifices Moses endured but Moses would his mother, his father chose to have faith and me also even of my story how you know I stand on and sometimes we we don't realize how you know like Paul tells Timothy. He says the faith that that is inside of you, you know whether they were this devotion to God and so that's so encouraging to a place yes where you have to make a decision, this with Moses you know it got to the place where to suffer with God's people. His calling you and reject the pleasures of sin and for you that for your ministry. Yes and what did God started to see your ministry taken off? Did you modify your know some people want to be Christian rock stars. journey was less about music that journey led me high pastor for six years and and honestly, I'm was kind of gave me my start in ministry, he was this more or less this cultivated part of your like but I just think the Lord wants to develop to give you a chance to have that happen and so he youth pastor assistant and then it grew into being and I would say that, learning how to pastor, to 14 year olds and try and form a worshiper you learning how to preach the Bible. I would say to me my first year of ministry is because I'm emphasizes and doesn't emphasize when you're on I'm technically like a pastor so I think I really embarrassing to... I was raised in it but I didn't word and so I just devoured scripture, my first you know my life and learning how to preach, heart for His church, where He wants to take all of those things, those things actually it was inspiration for the songs and all of a sudden, from a totally different place and my first record that I would do you know for Junior High and to probably you know anyway, I've just been thinking develops leaders, He doesn't develop them in know He develops them through many many different yield to the Lord, be obedient to the Lord because understand. We can't totally see but if we trust realize like oh Lord, I had this much of a vision a much broader foundation in my life for the work songs but your ministry is very church oriented. them you know in the church. Worship teams can know you have love for church. Yes, you know and people and you know hearing you know your dad, family and then also you being a youth pastor that's so encouraging because I think a lot of people. They almost feel like the church exists the local church. Jesus died for the church, It's His body you know like even there was a to take off you know and things at the church It's people. You know running your own ministry people. Just kind of the speed is different and little bit because it got a little bit too painful Maybe my season has come to an end with the church serving and as I really kind of quieted all of just this heart of Jesus saying, I'm building I'm coming back for the church. I'm not coming the church, I didn't die for your ministry and is because you were bleeding the church all I want you to love My church and He says, I died life now and so and my attitude changed after to build the local church versus the local church you know not only through the songs but through you're married. I am. You also have five children. family. I do. How's that shaping your worship you? Oh man. What a journey parenting is yeah learning more about the heart of God and His He's looking for His church through my family Lord is doing but one of the things that I do know new way the importance of family and I get asked you juggle family and how do you juggle ministry especially to Timothy and he talks about family that that you lead your family. He's like this whether or not you are qualified to manage the you know then in many ways you're disqualified or strike fear in anyone's hearts. I'm grateful Lord but I do feel like this thing has fallen from was conversing with the friend of mine we were he's like most of those meetings they were in your family which means that how you were managing display and so I've just felt in this season the best that you know we knew how and trying every night. I've written a whole probably record realized in a whole new way just how much the priority the first initial priority for me. like our family is really the central thing that this well and finish this well. Launch them well so we have a huge passion for it. I could spend an eldest is 22. She just got married to a beautiful joined the marines about nine months ago which is you know with that. I've got an 18-year-old. I've like we have been through you know so much 22 battle and all the things that the Lord you know things because our kids are at an age now where what's one thing you would encourage in being stages. You've had a very packed schedule. You're like I guess you know the question is how did it's trial and error you know some of it you this long so you know how do we do that and you everything and feel like we got it all right you I'm like I would have been better but actually your travel schedule. It's not just your time like are you carrying this burden you know are you are you leading your family? Are you carrying that and are you being fully present to that in your like and that is more like this heart posture who more about that and that level of intentionality you're home. And so I feel whatever you can do to to learning how to build a prayer life around your regularly pray, it's like whatever keeps that like you wear it doesn't fall to the wayside or doesn't other thing I think is as in every stage like even when kids are young like how do I engage with this your engagement is so important and your voice my head, it was really hard for me to just come know and I just think those types of things, you value to their young hearts your presence and I look back and I see every one of those seasons connection because there's always a lot of war. connection but if you stay connected to their their hearts you know all the while discipling, word and worship and all that type of a thing. being really quick to repent like if you error, just being very quick to repent and rest establish trust and five kids. Yeah. I'm the oldest of five. middle of five as well but my grandma comes from lost count how many grandchildren she has. So we what you just highlighted is so important is to are in ministry, they a lot of times, they make some who make all about their family, they'll give ministry with your family like even seeing some of and like you said it's not easy. I like the fact it's a tension we manage. It's not necessarily, but what you highlighted about being present you mentioned about your dad you know like here we your story begins when you think about God, you was just being a Christian at home but now to you that path you know I always told people that His presence. He could exist and be this clock this clock, he's not present with me but our God that changes us and same thing for children. What doesn't change them, brought them into this that's right, that can change their life and so month old right now but to be conscious that you Vlad but that little bundle of joy only has one, just existing, he needs me to be present. I heard perspective because people would always come up busy and he would reply like this and he would I'm present here. He said, when we finish this to be present there. He says, when I leave the of really started to even pray into that. I said I am in. That's it. Kind of like what you say when bringing necessarily the ministry there or you're tuned in there because children, they don't need unlimited, they just need the undivided I can't give them unlimited because I have so kind of what you highlighted just being present. you highlight that in your books, I want to move that you were strongly compelled to write the this book? What compelled you to write this where... I mean, I want to say the Holy Spirit thought about writing a book for a long time and glory of God and just beautiful things that I of my journey that I would love to share and I was like oh this is... yeah, what I said is the book that I felt compelled to write because I worship that was destroying it essentially. I pure worship and devotion to Jesus probably more most threatening things to the kingdom of darkness an interesting season you know for me and it was look at all the different ways that the enemy used agendas in darkness but at the same time, it was so to speak from this you know because I mean my like three stadiums you know 75,000 people in each just stuff that we couldn't even imagine or dream down and I remember the hype and the momentum and I just remember thinking in 2020 man, if someone if I had an angel appear to me just like one month shut down. This is what's going to happen and what you know and I just began to think, I would have and I feel like 2020, we used to you know we heard kind of swirl around the year 2020 and it was and honestly in a way, I felt like it was a year wasn't we saw things that we couldn't see before is and you are able to see things but for me, it awakening type of seeing, like a rude awakening that were you know I was caught up in. Things and you know I've always had a heart for purity how many ways I my myself was compromised and the know in my heart and so I wrote that book out of grief and little bit like we have this story, it's he gets like a window into the track that he is this is not the way you know and to speak, to say, shift and change and move away from because it's is so precious and meant to be so powerful and open you know but I feel the way that the enemy and how he's doing that in worship in ways that is no longer in many ways, they have knowingly or area of worship an it's this entity that now many of the artists and so many of the songwriters church in this moment, it has if I were just to slowly leeching into it and we've always talked know yeah worship is the tip of the spear and it a thing and I'm like yeah but you know we've if the enemy is able to pervert worship, if he's sing. Because those songs create the culture. They the intimacy between the church and the Lord and a very destructive inroad into the body of Christ so subtly, so craftily and I feel like it's like they're unaware of how many of those influences church is taking up and singing and so when you a very strong reaction and that book was an appeal need to break with some partnerships. We need about. This thing, we cannot afford for this thing thing that is opening so many doors to so much like we need to restore healthy government over need to learn how to parent this, to raise this is the government that God has prescribed for His this prophetic grief, these eyes to see and it was know at the time... it's very raw. Very raw. Can it and how it's capitalizing on the glory of God? becoming very famous today for worship, they're pure, even stuff that comes out about them and not seen locally here when we've had and I will not everybody knows them. When they came through town they stayed in the hotel and then the hotel had to why would I need to go clean up the room? They're clean up the room? And he says well, you need there were so many bottles of alcohol. I mean called the agent and said, Hey what's this? I mean your maybe policy and drinking is different even in Christians and this is a drinking at least they didn't have prostitutes or drugs. something. Yeah and I was like man, it's just you I've encountered few other people. This doesn't happening with pastors and all of that but can is using that and how some of that is actually is pure. That's right. Oh no no not at all. I never a great indication of even as say what God discernment I would say in this day and age and taking responsibility and kind of the parental we have a bunch of orphans running around without connection, without any real discipleship, they just have a gift and they're able to utilize we listen to the Christian radio and go like and know I wonder what their life is like. I wonder people do but it's not like we're demanding you. just like oh I love that song and and that's asking those questions when they bring people me how my family was or you know how well I was to alcohol or you know whether I was addicted thing. No one was getting involved in my life as it was all okay but there's something very very a tremendous worship and music has tremendous we're inviting this in but we have no idea what there's so much warfare over creatives. There's them are in very very broken places. They've been myself have been tremendously broken you know and all righteous indignation and like you know but unhealthy system that needs, we need to shift and thing that's for me is looking at not just the I've been seeing it for years and many many people is really broken. This is really unhealthy. It's a different story? How do we write a different know to this because we've empowered this system kind of like all of a sudden we're expecting, accountability. No questions. With just this the scenes you know and everything is all good and it proves to be unhealthy then we cancel and then and I'm just like you know guys you know there's a think what's needed is true spiritual mothers and willing to wait into relationship and basically a two-way street. There are sons and daughters what it really means to have a spiritual mother and daughters and I hear their language of like of support and I'm like actually what you need is What you want is someone that you can go and you television and get loved and kissed and then get does you know a parent is the one who makes you grounds you and you know the parent and it's not Lord, He's a Father. He disciplines. He's like discipline. The Lord disciplines those He loves. know you're being treated like legitimate children have a generation that doesn't really understand fathering is and so we both need to grow. We need it's the hearts of fathers turning towards and focused on making sure that when the worship team, they shouldn't be discipled by the industry, they the industry is really after, Hey make sure you new album. The industry is not shepherding. It's true shepherding because again, an industry is profit and you can have many good intentioned towards anyone. I'm just saying at the end of need to make money. Yeah and the way that they So it's almost like this you know so they actually be removed from their constraints of local church then they're able to become much more profitable many lives. It wars against family rhythm and and to minister and have an itinerate thing but care for your soul. Industry is just trying to and make money and so the true spiritual fathers what is going to mature you and grow you into the season, yes, there's an obedience and we sense it. a releasing and all of that. Wonderful but there could be very detrimental. But ultimately you This would be my appeal for anyone in the music care far more about your soul than you know will talk. It'll use a familial language. It'll but at the end of the day, let me just say, depth of that family. You will see who really is interested in and they actually can't afford to you're profitable you know and so you need people soul and your willing being. They're not trying to and here's the other thing I would say this to same sickness that often can live in the industry and leaders, we have used the gifting and the our brands and our names and not truly shepherded when they start making a mess. Well, we just will truly shepherd and care for people's souls the detriment of our own ministries. We're not wise for you to like sit out 6 months, take order not as punishment because we actually care about our momentum as a ministry or industry today. So true what you just said. That's a nail the power and purity, that's the solution. What do when it comes to worship? Yeah, purity has many know it speaks to a singularity and first of all, be many agendas. It can't be about many different period. It's also, it's the song of devotion. redeemed has been given. It's the testimony that scripture tells us that if we don't have love, it's noise and only you know it's kind of like I've written by the grace of the Lord, I've not quote unquote craft but by the grace of the Lord, I've also been a part of all kinds of different rhythm of this type of a thing and then end of the I don't... is love my... where is love... like is do? And love is like the great sifter and tester found that for me, we're in a moment where we heart of worship is that singular love you know it doesn't have any agenda. It has no mixture. bit but also loves the spotlight and when you they're not trying to be anything, they're just It has a power that sometimes is better than purity and what I've realized especially with what it takes to even birth true worship in a it's just the person who most authentically when it's released, hits the spirit like it devotionally and I think that's why my dad had I watched a dad who had a real thing with the the other stage ministry stuff and so yeah there's that personally because it's definitely, it's not you know but to cultivate that and I want to just you can't achieve purity by trying to be pure. you don't even know sometimes that you're really that you know that purity so it's not... the Bible of the Lord that we become purified and then what room and so and it's a... but what does that look mindset because it's not always also, Hey how much David. It says that he led them with the integrity hands. It was not necessarily how much time he younger, I used to meet people who were used fast? How much do you pray? I want to go home and say things like I hated those answers. It's just heart that you do. Just tell me what. Tell me how. Is there particular things that you... like some habits or patterns of thinking that you have that that could potentially get contaminated? Such a it's sensitivity to the Holy Spirit. Okay, it's time, we can live so blind to what's going on in like we really, we can walk in darkness and we Holy Spirit. It's the graciousness of the Holy to be so in touch with Him because it's about questions of like Lord, have I gone off somewhere all of a sudden I'm just like Lord, I don't know. Sometimes it's not saying it's always this but with Him, I just kind of you know examine. I'm about... again, because people I feel like they I don't want to focus on me and what's wrong say to examine and the Holy Spirit is faithful to this actually interaction and a lot of times you the most surprising thing about being relationship that and the things that we're bothered by, that all of a sudden and I found that obviously have found some of that to be true. Some of the when you know were not things that I saw. They like oh Lord how I talked about that person and you know RT Kendall really beautiful older about how he went on this journey with the Holy of the Holy Spirit and he's like he's much more he's like and I just gave myself to this thing in fellowship you know and I just found that to to cultivate that fellowship. It's learning how the disconnect. It's kind of like when you've been and your spouse begins to know you in such a way you notice. You notice immediately and you feel before and you're so sensitive to it because so connected to the Lord, it would just be much me when Mary and Joseph lost Jesus and they didn't you know three days is I would say it's a good days and you notice that you're not connected you that baby skin heart. Yes. To keep that very lose the sensitivity to the Holy Spirit, we become things. What people said about me, what people sensitive in the wrong areas and so I love what you know for me personally when I do lose that me. Sometimes I take a just one day of fasting that day but I just position myself. Lord I'm very if... if I'm not connected, that's right. I'm lost will notice it but I'm sick on the inside. I don't in and the biggest danger what you mention is hardened that you can pretty much be self deceived conviction anymore you know the standards are and for a year. Absolutely. I mean he felt he killed the guy. Absolutely, no conviction you appreciate you highlight. You also and just few mentioned about worship in truth and you alluded also need to become versed in theology. It really have a new age spill to it. Yes, really has very not gospel, Christ, cross centered and it's and just because it has a little kick to it and it stuff that is just all about me and how important Bible reading. Just the Bible reading now not just mean to be a worshipper of God. He says we have Spirit is referenced as the Spirit of truth like the buttress of truth in culture and society like of the most foundational aspects of what it means who is truth. So I mean I'm saying it's actually a worship leader in truth, which means that of what I would say what I was trying to even you the way that industry has enabled or empowered You can call it whatever you want but at the end infiltrating the church and they'll infiltrate that atmosphere in the church and you see, you people are looking for... it has to be popular. have created an itching ear feeding machine I mean so there has to be principles that govern and there has to be a passion in worship leaders proclaim the actual truth and so we have to cut you don't understand like behind the scenes in truths that are not being sung, that are being because they're like, Ah that's going to create this song's profitability you know essentially and reason why we don't pay pastors according to the don't subject pastors to royalty based systems know if you had a manager as a pastor like many to say your monthly income this month is kind of you know your message on repentance. Well I your message on the blessings and the promises 25,000 hits for that you know and if you subjected according to the popularity of what you preach. situation because you know inevitably, again if and they're going to preach but otherwise in actually have to deliver what is popular and what going to have to break with that and be utterly to Jesus. We need to be faithful to the gospel. We We have one responsibility and that is to take know in the word of God, the message that has been sing it back you know to the Lord, declare the cross. All of this. All this stuff regardless feathers it ruffles. Regardless of whether the was the insanity that began to happen even with a about. Well, the blood of Jesus weirds people of Jesus is central to our faith you know anyway, saying a heart that's passionate for the truth, a Songwriters, you are messengers and you have a and you can't edit that message just because on our guard against anything that is looking to realities of what it is that we preach you know I now through worship yes but that's my great malnourished very like actually but even more so humanistic things that come in is when we develop is not really food that has actually perverse that which is most healthy for them. It's kind of not only are you establishing a horrible diet to reject that which is healthy like I think you actually begin to preach the true theology of nature of the atonement. People are like they doctrines because they're like oh no no no... I almost becoming something that's almost idolatrous through a humanistic lens and all of a sudden, punish their Son on a cross and it's actually the gospel and I think that's what we actually gospel is rising and it's the subtle little out through our songs. Yes. It comes out through ago and a lot of times they would send the songs check the lyrics. Check, is this contradictory? Does this glorify Jesus? And I think but being gives you the freedom to do that and also when twisted or driven or pulled in by the industry. You can say you know Hey, I'm sorry but I'm not my soul on this. This is not me. I'm not going to reformer? That chapter yeah. Oh man. Ears and His house. Yes. Loyalty to Jesus's heart. Wow. speak a little bit into that? That's so good. You can preach something it's such clarity... just kind of pouring that. But the ears and eyes loyalty to Jesus's heart, and no hesitation to one of them stand out to you? Oh they all have eyes of the Lord. We have to be able to see the most challenging things for me. It's like when the in 2020. It was like getting a pair of glasses to Nehemiah. I talked about this because I think the asked for a condition, he asked for a report on he actually heard the true report, it actually He couldn't even hide his sadness you know over is sometimes it's like if for those of us who are the state of the church and because it requires The things that are there. There are forces at snakes in the lobby and it's a really powerful community like it's written in '97 but it was see what was actually at work in not only in the And I just think we have to have spiritual you don't even know. You're not going to repent. shift anything if you can't see it. You know it's you're this way. Therefore you're doing nothing. it's a cold, you're not going to be getting the see the way the Lord sees and then, and that zeal and we're asking God for this because I mean if Lord is... man, if you ask Him for zeal for the nowhere. I don't know where I got that zeal but the beauty and the power that is the church, the against any enemy that's trying to mess with her like we're going to need that you know loyalty, at the end of the day. It's just Lord what are that actually pleases your heart. I don't care up and down like all I want like if I miss your is all... this is just you know what a waste. We then as we go on that journey with that heart alignment, out of sync with that, we don't think, Old Testament where talks about don't turn to the in your obedience to whatever that is the Lord's like this means that many career people will end and then the Lord will birth something beautiful mean an absolute severing and going, oh I see that it's not being afraid to break. It's like the Lord obedient and if they see an area of compromise, we're going to cut that out and I'm not just Your personal life. Anywhere you're like oh Lord, that... again, this is not meant to be... I'll put His finger on alcohol in my life and before little gray areas and there's this time where Lord was like okay and I just knew it and there was no that journey twice and there was a little bit of like no and I was like from that point. I'm like the Lord and I'm not that everybody needs to it's media, it's everything and it's just being... He is. His glory is coming and I feel we're ill glory but we're ill prepared for His glory is a season a very important season to bring the small compromises. This is a precious window of the church this is critical. In the past I would this just oh that has to go. That has to go. Is No, it has to go and honestly, as you cut out, life with all the things whether it's pure, lovely whole life with light and I mean I just want to be the question is but yeah, you just answered them. fact that you started with first you know that the loyalty to Jesus which will lead to having that they're not pleasing to God. The Bible unto Jesus but then we have to lay aside some totally justifiable and comfortable as long as we if we only believe in Him, if we never try to imitate somebody's consecration. It's legalism. Yeah because then you'll get up and what they did but not the heart behind what led even I look at my life you know and some of the I'm a disciplined person. Naturally I'm more prone disciplines I had to be put in, the reason I had those things He didn't like them anymore. As long That's so good. It sounds bad. I hope people are of like when Peter followed Jesus toward the end the Bible says and Peter followed him at a because following Jesus at the point close I think a lot of times what people do is that we Him. We don't have a zeal or passion for Him you shouldn't be doing that. You shouldn't be is the result. Holiness is not really the... you will find yourself in a pharisaical there. There's no like you said there's no light what I'm not doing. This is what I'm not doing. know and so I think that you just hit the nail on pursuit decide what is allowed and what is not we wrap this up, what is next for Jeremy? What in your ministry? What do you see if you know think the Lord is taking you? Is there a song, a book coming out, a school. As don't know quite yet. I do know that one of the a moment where the Lord said very clearly to me, know if it's seasonal thing, I don't know how long and I've been spent two years of just kind of I feel obviously it's unto the return of the Lord. being in fool of the light. It's about the bride strengthened and built up. It's about her having has no authority where she's been you know bound her liberty that she can walk in the spiritual to be about the church. Many, all different kinds going to be about helping lead a charge you know we acknowledge where we have gone astray like and by going like moving to the pragmatic or just to read the Bible you know it's like there is the heart of God and getting ourselves right and much talk about us humbling ourselves before the and I feel specifically for the western church, to learn how to deal with that which what the Lord quickly so that we can move. You can't bypass Lord leading. I know that's going to have many in the future but ultimately it's this thing that army you know the Lord destroying the works of come on. Reminds me of you know book of Revelation love you know remember where you've fallen from works then pretty much repeat and I feel like our whatever our bad has caused. Yes. Versus genuinely part of that, confession and then forsaking that looking forward to what that's going to look like your ministry. So appreciate you. Appreciate your for a few days and everyone that's watching, I as I was you know the scripture comes to my and then when He left and they said, was not what's been happening to me is my heart has been burning too. So you can continue to grow in the not a sales pitch. Jeremy didn't even ask for any some logs to that fire and so it will help you to leader, I would just encourage you to play this this interview. Let them be encouraged you know different voices in our lives to strengthen things about Jeremy's ministry is right below this video prayer for what the Lord is going to do next in