Right here, this is This is pork belly. You can make bacon, but we're not No, we're making porchetta. A porchetta is such and I think that is why a funeral, a birthday... Bring it to some So what I'm gonna do is just so I can We're just gonna take and we're just gonna Watch this, I love this. We're gonna take I'm building a Some dried chili flake. I like mine a little spicy. We're gonna take some garlic. We're just gonna zest Some fresh cracked pepper. Rosemary, parsley, Cooking machines. This is Amaro. Amaro is an Italian digestif, and it has those deep that I wanna put inside of the Then we're gonna cut our orange. Watch this. We're just gonna squeeze it. Oh, mama. Now we're just kind of rub everything in. Kinda get those So that's amazing. So now you're gonna As tight as possible, okay? We're just gonna take a We're doing like length-wise, I'm just like a just scraping away at this. And that will make sure that This is just butcher's twine. You can get this anywhere. So I'm just gonna take this. And when you do this, and then that way What we're gonna do So you go under... come up, another knot, and you pull it from side By doing this, it keeps the so then it cooks evenly. Have to restart it a little bit. (Laughing) To make it nice and tight. Gotta tie down He doesn't go anywhere! (Grunting) Look at this You gotta tie 'er up! You gotta tie that fucking So when you're you don't have to do it the You can just take just fucking loop it Just wrap it around so Once it starts roasting, it Holy schnikes. Look at that, see? Watch this. A perfect little porchetta. It's beautiful. Gonna take some salt. We want the outside to be dry. This may seem like it's a lot of salt. Follow me! Porchetta's in the oven. That's got about at 350 degrees Fahrenheit. Woo! Look at this! This is perfect already. I'm gonna cut the and now we're gonna So this is as I pinch my balls. This is a hot pot of canola oil. This is pig skin. This will, because this is gonna Chicharron is crispy pig skin. And then when you hit it it puffs, it blisters, super crispy, glass-like But make sure there's There's no drunk people, there's nobody stoned Whenever you're dealing this can fuck you up. 'Cause I'll tell you one thing, disrespect, it will burn My older brother came He threw in a bunch of fucking into a pot of fucking and it fucking blasted him. Please be careful! Don't blow up your face (Sizzling) Oh, you hear that? (Sizzling) And it just blisters away. So as you can see, and you gotta just keep ladling. You get that amazing just chicharron, look at that. So here we go, listen to this. (Crackling) Oh my god! Do you see that? See all the fat When you hit it it melts it all And then the skin comes and it just makes it incredible. Oh my god. Here, listen to this. (Crunching) It never stops itself. It is a monolithic ball So we got our salsa verde. Now I'm gonna add Lemon juice in last. It will make sure and it will also make sure This is an insanely That perfect pig skin, the rapini with the guanciale, the velvety, meaty, with the golden raisins, the crispy olive oil with the bomba! This is the big dog meal, and in your life forever. I'm Matty Matheson. It's Suppertime! Let me tell you, this My god, porchetta! You're mine! (Laughing) Why the fuck... (Laughing) ...did some kid with a French French? Isn't it French? What is it? No, it's Swiss German, buddy. - Swiss German? - Swiss German. Auf Der Mauer? - Yeah, Swiss German. - Auf Der Mauer. My whole family, the It comes from Switzerland. And that's where the porchetta-- the porchetta was No, of course not. Where was it invented? In Ariccia, so just-- just Oh, I thought it was Rome. Have you been there? I haven't had a Been to Rome, been to Naples... You haven't been to Ariccia. I haven't been there yet, no. So you actually don't even (Laughing) How many porchetta Recently? - Oh fuck, recently? - Recently. I had-- I actually Yeah? 'Cause again, we're like, So you know, you You've eaten a lot of I've definitely cut back They can get ya. I know for the first six months But what-- I still Like besides filling the market, like did you have a porchetta &quot;What the fuck, I've never had and now people need this&quot;? Like there must've been a one day you woke up and and you're like, &quot;Porchetta!&quot; It was-- It stemmed from me really small and different, a different path, and not... Work-- Work smarter. Well, work-- Yeah, a little bit. I think it's I mean, it's definitely fucking Well, you're making everything Yeah, it's real. It's not like you're buying and just warming it up. Fuck no! God no! I'm really lucky that has a porchetta shop.