Get ready to delight in one of the most beloved and versatile flavors in cooking. Peanut butter or peanut cream, peanut butter. Today we're going to explore all the wonderful ways to incorporate this creamy, delicious treat into your everyday meals. From the traditional North American peanut butter and fruit jelly sandwich to pancakes and toast and you can even use it in salad dressings. My grandson loves sliced apples with Peanut Butter. Peanut Butter which is peanut butter. You're about to discover a world of flavor and creativity. So come with us on this flavor journey. Is peanuts beneficial or not for our health? I always had the idea that it is not so good for our health, but I recently discovered that it is quite high in calories, but if it is part of a balanced diet and healthy habit, we can consume peanuts in moderation and without guilt and it will be good for our health. health. Today I'm going to teach you how to make Peanut Butter or peanut butter. This is your first time visiting this channel, welcome! I'm Kayoko Takeda and I talk about healthy eating, I mainly teach how to ferment vegetables and make them medicinal and probiotics. If you like this content, I ask you to like the video and subscribe and turn on notifications, so you don't miss any of the new videos. I'm going to tell you why peanuts are healthy. It is a source of protein. Peanuts are an excellent source of vegetable protein, rich in healthy fats, monounsaturated and polyunsaturated fats that are heart-healthy fats. Moderate consumption of these fats can help reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease, but be careful, I said moderate consumption. Peanuts are rich in dietary fiber and are beneficial for intestinal motility and feelings of satiety. Contains beneficial vitamins and minerals such as vitamin e niacin, folates, magnesium, phosphorus, potassium, which perform important functions in the body. Contains antioxidants such as resveratrol and flavonoids that help fight oxidative stress in the body, helping to protect cells from free radical damage. Helps reduce the risk of diseases. Some studies suggest that peanut consumption may be associated with a lower risk of heart disease, type 2 diabetes and excessive weight gain. When part of a healthy diet, it gives a feeling of satiety. Peanuts can help keep you full due to the combination of protein, fiber and healthy fats, which can be helpful for weight loss. It is good for those on ketogenic diets and helps with brain health. The niacin present in peanuts is involved in brain health and cognitive function. It is important to consume peanuts in moderation as they are high in calories. Avoid hyper-processed and industrialized foods, such as coated peanuts. Covered with sugar, with chocolate, pacoca. Avoid pacoca, pe de moleque, etc. Peanuts may contain aflatoxin, a toxin found in several types of mold that threatens microbial balance. Before we go into how to make butter, I want to say that I teach you how to ferment foods and make them medicinal. Access the link in the video description for a very affordable price. The course is called Probiotics for Beginners First Steps. The full recipe and step-by-step instructions are available to my channel members . If you want to support my channel become a member. Look on the channel's home page next to the subscribe button, there is another button written be a member, enter and check the levels, benefits and values. From level two onwards you have access to exclusive videos and complete recipes. If you can support me, I would truly appreciate it. Now let's get to the preparation. Right here I have this many peanuts, which have already been roasted, so I heated the oven to 180o C, left the oven heating and then I put the peanuts with the seeds on a baking tray. I used this peanut from Yoki, which has a seal here stating that it is careful with fungi. So this brand is really good. And then after 15 minutes the peanuts were like this. You may think that the peanuts are not roasted properly, but after you take them out of the oven, they continue to roast. So, time has come, you can take it now, okay? Those who like it less roasted can do it too. I will put the half. I have a couple of tablespoons of vegetable oil here. You use the oil you are used to using. And I'm going to use a little salt too. It's the ingredients. We will need to be patient when grinding. Here we will have to take a few stops, adjust it until it starts running well. I'm going to add a little oil. We have to give some help here. Let's add the rest. I'm trying to save the oil but that's it. He's already getting tastier. It's already running, right? Much better! I'm going to add a little salt here, this measurement is 1/4 of a teaspoon. That's me, almost a little more than half of that spoon. Look! It was very creamy. It was excellent! Did you have any idea it was so simple to make peanut butter? It lasts in the fridge, they say it lasts 10 days, I promise you it lasts much longer if you put it in a container like I'm going to do. Look how smooth it is. So the secret is to put it in a glass that is narrow and tall because then the worst that can happen is that a slight fermentation will begin. What spoils food, here I don't have any preservatives, so what spoils food is contact with oxygen. If you leave it in contact with oxygen for a long time, it will start to create mold, right? If we put it in a smaller glass like this, we consume, you know, the upper part and there is always a lower part that was not in contact with the oxygen. So that's why it doesn't create mold, okay? So let's put it here. I'm going to teach you a way to eat this. The apple is prebiotic, right? It has fiber that is beneficial for our intestines and makes it very satiating. So apple is a good snack, a wonderful snack. We're going to eat it now with the peanut butter. It must be very tasty, because my grandson eats two apples with the peanut butter. Yummy and healthy yum! Do you too? So did you like today's video? Tell me in the comments what you think and like the video please. Thank you very much for watching and see you in the next video.