Daniel, Man of God By Dwight L. Moody Daniel's Band Heeding God's command, All hail to Daniel's Band! Dare to be a Daniel, Dare to have a purpose firm, Many mighty men are lost, Who for God had been a host, Many giants, great and tall, Headlong to the earth would fall, Hold the gospel banner high, Satan and his host defy, - Philip. P. Bliss (1873) Chapter 1 And Daniel purposed in his heart that he would king's food, nor with the wine which he drank; eunuchs that he might not defile himself. I always delight to study the life of Daniel my judge.&quot; God is my judge; the public is Daniel held himself responsible to God. Some years before the time of Christ, the sins of God upon them and upon the people. Jehoiakim succeeded Jehoiakim, and he was succeeded runs the same: And he did evil in the sight It is no wonder that in the days of Jehoiakim, Christ, Nebuchadnezzar, king of Babylon, was and to lay siege against it and overcome it. with some of the young princes, was carried Jehoiachin was king, Nebuchadnezzar came up of the temple vessels and took several thousand And even later, when Zedekiah was king, Nebuchadnezzar it. This time he burned the city with fire, the people, and probably carried away another (2 Kings 25:1-11). of Babylon in the days of Jehoiakim were four may have had godly mothers who taught them been touched by the words of Jeremiah, the people of Judah. So, even though the nation of Isaac, and of Moses, these young men took hearts. them and lifted up his voice against the sins tears and told him to his face that he was of earnest preachers today. But these four voice, and they had the strength to stand In spite of their faithfulness, they were commanded that a certain number of the most chosen to be taught the Chaldean tongue and king further ordered that there should be them daily with a supply of the same wine for three years (Daniel 1:5). were to stand before the great monarch, the and his three young friends were among those in his heart that he would not defile himself the wine which he drank; therefore he requested not defile himself (Daniel 1:8). to a large city or a great metropolis without entrance. And just at this turning point in the secret of his success or his failure. see in life is that men do not start right. character with him to Babylon and was not his mother. He was not ashamed of the God Among those heathen idolaters in Babylon, The young Hebrew captive took his stand for doubtless he cried to God to keep him steadfast. great difficulties, as we shall see. went forth that these young men should eat some of that food would consist of meats prohibited of birds, and of fish, which had been pronounced in the preparation, some portion might not concerning which it had been declared, Ye 17:14). Some part of the food may have been Babylonian god. Any one of these circumstances, determined Daniel's course of action. I do up his mind. He purposed in his heart - in defile himself with the portion of the king's If some modern Christians could have advised that; don't set aside the king's meat; that your stand and say you will not eat it, you people.&quot; Oh yes, that is the kind of talk you are in Rome, you must do as the Roman the poor young captive that he could not possibly obey God's commandments while at home. He him into the land of his captivity. here, young man, you are too puritanical. religious scruples. Bear in mind you are not these notions now that you are here in Babylon. You are not a Jerusalem prince now. You are You have been brought down from your high monarch hears about you refusing to eat the that he drinks, your head will soon roll off more politically correct.&quot; deep down in his heart, and that is the right have power, and regulate life. Daniel had faithful few in Jerusalem, to attain a position because of the love he had for the Lord God I can imagine the astonishment of that officer, eat the king's meat or drink his wine. &quot;Why, with it? Why, it is the best the land can &quot;No,&quot; said Daniel, &quot;there is nothing wrong eat it.&quot; Then Melzar tried to reason Daniel prophet, young though he was at that time, So, thank God, this young Hebrew and his three drink the wine; they requested that the portions the overseer to bring them vegetables instead &quot;Take away this wine, and take away this meat. of the eunuchs probably trembled for fear appeal, he eventually consented to let them lo, at the end of the ten days his fears were young friends appeared fairer and fatter in of the king's food (Daniel 1:15). The four many men in our streets, as red as if they Daniel and his friends tested it - that cold wine. They had a clear conscience, and the their obedience, and the four Hebrew youths time they were brought into favor, not only court and the king. he did of earthly honor or the esteem of men. do right that day and let the tomorrows take in the strength of God was the secret of his overcame. And from that hour, from that moment, because he had started right. right. He makes a bad start. A young man comes life; temptation arises, and he becomes unfaithful sneering man who jeers at him because he goes to God - the same God to whom Daniel prayed to be weak-kneed and cannot stand the scoffs, So he becomes untrue to his principles and evil companions corrupt good character (1 I want to say that when a young man makes a hundred, it is ruin to him. The first game the first false entry in the books, the first the till, or the first night spent in evil point; any of these may represent a wrong If any persons could have claimed a good excuse these four young men might have. They had childhood and their youth; they had been taken in Jerusalem, away from the temple services Babylon to associate with the idols and idolaters, was against them, but they stood against the God Was with Them and conscience, goes against the current of not stop to consider what the consequences thee to be strong and of a good courage; be I, the LORD thy God, am with thee wherever But our testimony for God is not limited to lives. So we must not imagine for a moment The word to the Lord's servants is the same 2:10). might have been the largest city the world miles around and is understood to have consisted A line drawn through the city in either direction an elevation of three hundred and fifty feet; with the dome of St. Paul's Cathedral in London. and eight chariots could run abreast on the for ornamentation men had to construct artificial of vast regions flowed right into and through Chapter 2 Nebuchadnezzar dreamed dreams, with which from him. - Daniel 2:1 but under new conditions. The king of Babylon him. He musters before him the magicians, Chaldeans (or learned men), and requests the He either cannot or will not narrate to them an explanation without detailing what he has gone from my memory; if ye will not make known ye shall be cut in pieces, and your houses That was a pretty unreasonable demand. It if they succeeded, but of course they failed. The Chaldeans answered before the king, and can show the king's matter; furthermore there a thing of any magician or astrologer or Chaldean. is singular, and there is no one that can of God, whose dwelling is not with flesh. Except the angels of God. The king's men knew or discernment needed to tell the king what had that power, and rightly told the king There is not a man upon the earth that can of Daniel, who know God and therefore could man could. Scripture: The king was angry and the wise men of Babylon. And the decree went and they sought Daniel and his fellows to The king's officer came to Daniel, but Daniel are classed among the wise men, and our orders The young Hebrew captive responded, What is forth from the king with such haste? . . . And give him time and that he would show the king He had read the law of Moses, and he was one written concerning secret things was true: uncovered unto us and to our children (Deuteronomy knows that secret, and I will trust Him to three friends together and held a prayer meeting in Babylon. They dealt with the threatening had dealt with the threatening letter of the spread it before the LORD (2 Kings 19:14). to them. After they had prayed and made their so they went to bed and fell asleep. much, if we thought that our heads were in slept, for we are told the matter was revealed faith was strong, so he could sleep calmly not sleep through the night, they were probably Daniel Stands before the King in thanksgiving. He blessed the God of heaven of Psalm 103: Bless the LORD, O my soul, and holiness (Psalm 103:1). Paul and Silas had were in the prison at Philippi, for Paul and the prisoners heard them (Acts 16:25). the guard room, and said to the officer, bring the king the interpretation (Daniel 2:24). and like Joseph before Pharaoh (Genesis 41:16), gave glory to God: There is a God in the heavens took his place as a nobody; he himself was highly of him. That is the very highest type of the way and seeks to exalt his God and proceeded to describe the dream: Thou, O king, which was very large and whose glory was very terrible (Daniel 2:31). out at those opening words, and I can fancy thing comes back to me now!&quot; gold, its breasts and its arms of silver, of iron, its feet part of iron and part of &quot;Yes, that is it exactly,&quot; the king might But surely there was something more.&quot; stone was cut out, not with hands, which smote and baked clay and broke them to pieces. This before the king (Daniel 2:34, 36). went on to unfold the interpretation, and great image was none other than himself. Thou on to tell of another kingdom that would arise is stronger but less pure than gold, that tarnishes, while gold does not). But the arms Daniel himself lived to see the day when that He lived to see Cyrus overthrow the Chaldean empire pass into the hands of the Medes and conqueror, Alexander the Great, who overthrew ruled the world. Then came the Caesars who by the legs of iron, the mightiest power the impurities (iron rusts very easily). For centuries the nations of the earth. And then, in its mighty empire split up into ten kingdoms corresponding I believe in the literal fulfillment of Daniel's of the final prophecy of the stone cut out, the kingdoms of this world into dust and bring Even though the feet were of clay, there was in them. At the present day, we are down to Soon, very soon, the collision may occur and without hands&quot; is surely coming - and it may What did Ezekiel say when he prophesied within Remove the diadem and take off the crown; it, shall be no more until he comes whose 21:26-27). of our Lord Jesus Christ, who in his time the King of kings, and Lord of lords; . . . to 6:14-16). may be very soon. Hail to the fifth monarch, reign from the river unto the ends of the is come!&quot; will be ringing throughout the earth. of God; our King will be back by and by! And to Christ, I would say, Lose no time! If you of the Lord, you had better press into it too late!&quot; will be the cry. of his dream and listened to its interpretation, a really wise man. He gave Daniel many great throne, just as Pharaoh had raised Joseph position and power, he did not forget his be promoted, so they also were put in positions and He kept them true to Him in their prosperity, From that moment Daniel became a great man. was lifted right out of bondage - right out not more than twenty-two years old, and there made ruler over the whole of the then-known And God will exalt us also when the right ourselves; we don't need to struggle for position. for a man to be right with God, even if he up and know that God is pleased with him. Fight the Good Fight The life-long battle with all evil things? aim; Goes the fight well with thee? power? With thee and for thee in the fiercest hour? Dread not the din and smoke, Courage! It is the battle of thy God; What though ten thousand fall! Grasp but more bravely thy bright shield and Fight to the last, although thou fight'st What though ten thousand faint, Heed not the panic of the multitude; - Dr. H. Bonar (1868) Chapter 3 Nebuchadnezzar the king made a statue of gold, six cubits; he set it up in the plain of Dura, Time went on, possibly several years, and of a gigantic human figure continued to haunt quite possible that the dream may have suggested construction of an immense image. It was to of pure gold. time Babylon was prosperous. Likewise, in abundant, and some of the precious metal that the Jewish capital may have been used in the of colossal size - over ninety feet high and image was set up in the plain of Dura near to gratify his imperial vanity by inaugurating When the time came for the dedication, however, in Egypt or in one of the many provinces attending in Babylon, we would surely have heard of counselors, high secretaries, and judges were the statue. What a gathering that morning! driving to the plain of Dura. All the great there. shouted, To you it is commanded, O people, the sound of the cornet, flute, harp, sackbut, ye are to fall down and worship the statue up: and whoever does not fall down and worship of a burning fiery furnace (Daniel 3:4-6). the unveiling of the statue. One thing is were required to fall to the earth and worship. against that. God's voice had spoken at Sinai, of stone - Thou shalt have no other gods before against the king's decree. Though Daniel was there. He had influenced his three friends there, and they were inspired by the same to this place at the hour of the dedication. for Him without at some time or other being to live for both worlds fail miserably, for to come. Would all of us have advised Daniel's cost? Aren't there some of us who have so these three to just bow down a little, so but not to worship? Babylon, they perceived that the two worlds - would collide, and they chose the world not determine for the present time only, but it cost them their lives, what did that matter? and they would receive the greater reward. unseen world. The faithful three utterly refused A terrible penalty was associated with disobedience down and worship shall the same hour be cast (Daniel 3:6). This was not a mere empty threat. and practice of the ferocious and cruel king make thee like Zedekiah and like Ahab, whom 29:22).2 city - &quot;Give me gold, give me money, and I the men of Nebuchadnezzar's day shouldn't are doing that very thing every day. Money image. Plenty of men today bow to the golden gold! Give me gold, and you may have heaven. to come. Give me worldly honor, and I will pieces of silver, and I will give you Christ.&quot; And now the order is given - very probably strike up just like bands of music play on heard from far away, and when the first notes statue. Earth's great ones and mighty ones three with stiff knees that did not bend. that to do the king's bidding would be to not fall down and worship. At the king's command, be nothing wrong in that, but they would not for that. They remembered the command, Thou are the kind of servants God wants - men who Like all the servants of the Lord and all three Hebrews had enemies who bore them a these three had undue preference in being besides the three young Hebrews, who did not did? They watched Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego. the ground according to Nebuchadnezzar's command, friends refused to bow. They would not have erect and straight. Those Chaldeans looked the three young men. had lived in Babylon in such a way that their statue. They knew that the three would not as far as it was lawful in obeying the king's would draw the line. When the commands of the commands of the God of heaven, they would men did not bow. allow me that expression. Something held their they stood as firm as rock. They stood strong (Ephesians 6:10). They did not get halfway to worship the image. There was nothing of Some of those Chaldeans wished to get rid their places, or they were after their offices. there were a good many men in Babylon who positions; there was much honor attached to oust them and succeed to their offices. It to pull others down in order to obtain their this world. Many a man has had his character to step into his place and position. information. They duly rendered the salutation: tell him of those rebellious Hebrews who would Jews . . . these men, O king, have not regarded they worship the statue of gold (Daniel 3:12). me!&quot; Nebuchadnezzar might have roared. &quot;No! &quot;Why, those three Hebrew slaves whom you set When the music started, they did not bow; know it. If you allow them to go unpunished, perfectly worthless.&quot; with rage as he commanded that the men be Scripture: Is it true, O Shadrach, Meshach, nor worship the statue of gold which I have &quot;It is true, quite true,&quot; perhaps Shadrach One last chance Nebuchadnezzar resolved to the sound of the cornet, flute, harp, sackbut, instrument to fall down and worship the statue shall be cast the same hour into the midst god that shall deliver you out of my hands? That is pretty plain speaking, is it not? Do this, and you live; don't do it, and you little terror for them. They turned and said to answer thee in this matter. Behold, our the burning fiery furnace, and he will deliver be it known unto thee, O king, that we will which thou hast raised up (Daniel 3:16-18). Babylon had not been accustomed to someone it. We are told he was full of fury. And note, they did not absolutely say that furnace, but they declared that He was able ability to do it. They believed that He would the possibility of Nebuchadnezzar being allowed Still, that did not greatly move them. But He allowed them to suffer, their resolve would nor honour the statue which thou hast raised presence of the king of Babylon into the presence I wonder if three such brave men could be or in Chicago today. How settled they were Thank God for such boldness! A few such men, the world upside down. Today they would be to bow outwardly but not &quot;worship&quot; the image. image was too much for them; they were determined Look at the king's reaction. I can imagine and turning pale as death with rage. Scripture: should heat the furnace seven times more than the most mighty men that were in his army to cast them into the burning fiery furnace. their undergarments, and their hats, and their of the burning fiery furnace (Daniel 3:19-21). were hurled into the terrible blaze. The fire officers who thrust them in.3 The three young Hebrews fell down bound into it seemed as if they would not be saved (Daniel out and looked to see the rebels burnt to But when Nebuchadnezzar gazed upon the furnace, to his great amazement, he saw the men walking - they were not running - as if in the midst There was no difference in them except that heart good to think that the worst the devil If Christ is with us, the direst afflictions us free to soar higher. day. Through the flames, he saw four men walking had been cast in. How was this? The Great His lambs were in trouble, and He leaped down, looked in, he saw the form of a fourth man. into the midst of the fire? They answered and said, Behold, I see four men loose, walking hurt; and the form of the fourth is like the It was doubtless the Son of God.4 That of His true servants were in peril, and He bosom to be with them. He had watched that faithful three, and His tender, pitying eye of their loyalty to Him. presence, from His palace in glory, right before the heat of the fire could come near encircled them, and not a hair of their heads even the smell of fire clung to them. I can through the waters, I will be with thee; and thee; when thou dost walk through the fire, flame kindle upon thee (Isaiah 43:2). the waters; God can take care of us when we care of us, if only we will stand up for Him. stand up for Him. Young man, honor God, and take your stand upon God's side. If you have Dare to do right; dare to be true; dare to may. you cannot, and will not, do something that your conscience tells you is wrong. Give up principles. If your employer requires you fraud, or falsehood, give up your situation rather die in a poorhouse than be unfaithful those men were made of. These glorious heroes Oh friends, we want to be Christians with prepared to stand up for the right and heed may think. the mouth of the burning fiery furnace and ye servants of the most high God, come forth out, untouched by the fire. They came out how the princes, the governors, the counselors, such an unheard-of sight. Their garments showed singed. It was as if God was teaching them head (Luke 12:7). conquered. God had proved Himself able to Nebuchadnezzar accepted his defeat and made language which speak blasphemy against the be cut in pieces, and their houses shall be god that can deliver after this sort (Daniel Then Nebuchadnezzar promoted these three witnesses honor upon them. God stood by them because something just because it is right and not to lead to death, but do the right thing, for the best. God sent them to Babylon to shine, and they Living! Working! Waiting! Rejoicing, glad and free? Is all He asks from thee. Who would not work for Jesus, The rippling of a stream of love Who would not die for Jesus, The grand, o'ershadowing portal-gate Who would not wait for Jesus? Hushing their heart with promises - Eva Travers Poole Chapter 4 I Nebuchadnezzar was quiet in my house and made me afraid, and the imaginations and visions 4:4-5 Surely, one would think this man would see had he seen that worked to convince him of remembered the particulars of the dream; they Again he called in the four classes of men and hidden things plain. He recounted to them the astrologers, the Chaldeans, and the soothsayers When they had been called upon to interpret And they stood silent again as Nebuchadnezzar something in these dreams of the king that ready with some plausible interpretation. they were beaten. forgotten the man who had recounted to him He said, But at the last Daniel came in before his Chaldean name of Belteshazzar: that I have understood that the spirit of is hidden from thee, tell me the visions of Thus were the visions of my head in my bed: the earth, and its height was great. The tree reached unto heaven, and its sight to the and his fruit abundant, and in him was food field lay down in his shadow, and in his branches was fed of him. and, behold, one who was a watchman and holy said thus, Hew down the tree, and cut off his fruit; let the beasts get away from under leave the stump of his roots in the earth, be bound in the green grass of the field; and let his portion be with the beasts in from man's heart, and let a beast's heart over him. resolved, and the case by the word of the know that the most High takes rule over the will and sets up over it the man who is the Now thou, O Belteshazzar, shall declare its men of my kingdom could never show me its spirit of the holy God is in thee. (Daniel As soon as the prophet appeared on the scene of the dream. For a time, Daniel stood still record simply says he was silent for almost 4:19). He saw what was meant by the royal fall and that the kingdom was to be taken immediate words rushed to his lips, but he tell Nebuchadnezzar that his kingdom and his that he was to wander about and eat grass The king also hesitated; a dark foreboding But he braced himself to hear the worst, and tell all he knew. So Daniel broke the silence. plainly. There and then he preached righteousness that he preached. If we had more of the same the king to approve my counsel and redeem with mercies unto the poor: behold the medicine Perhaps for encouragement he told him how of Jonah more than two centuries earlier. dream. He told the king that the great and and that just as the tree was hewn down and and robbed of strength. Daniel told him that have to live and eat with the beasts of the in the end, just as the great watchman had Repentance might have deferred, or even averted, Nebuchadnezzar repented not. And twelve months warning and puffed up with pride, walked upon out at the city's vast extent; he gazed at the wonders of the world, and said, Is this the house of the kingdom by the might of my 4:30). is departed from thee (Daniel 4:31). And then and tottered on its throne and fled. He was his body was wet with the dew of heaven. This It would not take fifteen minutes today to the mass of professing Christians too. Don't by their own power? Isn't God completely forgotten? He sends? Yes, men are mad, and nothing short Nebuchadnezzar's Repentance away from him permanently; according to the times, his understanding returned to him, His counselors and officers gathered around a very different man. Truly, the king's reason with a very different spirit. He sent forth Most High and exalted the God of heaven. The repentance and tend to prove that Daniel had It is interesting to consider the different change that takes place in them. He sent out people ought to do and how they should serve understand the truth until this point. Here At the end of the time I Nebuchadnezzar lifted was returned unto me, and I blessed the most lives for ever, whose dominion is an everlasting In the same time my reason was returned unto my dignity and greatness returned unto me; me; and I was restored in my kingdom, and Now I, Nebuchadnezzar, praise and build up his works are truth, and his ways judgment: arrogance. (Daniel 4:34, 36-37) sign. The earlier edict said much about other but nothing about what the king himself should praise. That is needed in the church in the stage; this is the last record we have of of the Corinthians, his was a repentance to 7:10 KJV). And if this is so, we may well and Daniel the captive will be walking the and may be talking about the old times in Now, if the young prophet had been of a vacillating easily shaken by every wind, and if he had oak, do you think he would have won this mighty result of that young man going to that heathen of the Bible, the Lord honored him and gave We may fairly say that King Nebuchadnezzar the faith of this Hebrew's love - just because known. The Master's Service There are no bonds in that service for me; Evermore His, yet so joyously free! Service of Jesus! Oh, service of power! All the best blessings the Master can shower Service of Jesus! Oh, service joy-giving! Secret of life and the sweetness of living, Service of Jesus! Oh, service of praising! Daily and hourly their voices upraising, - Eva Travers Poole Chapter 5 Belshazzar the king made a great banquet to he drank wine - Daniel 5:1 of Daniel. He may have been living in retirement of it he still appears to hold some appointment a less prominent position than before. Nebuchadnezzar name was Belshazzar ruling in Babylon or acting Some scholars believe that Belshazzar was admitted with his father Nabonidus in much the same with his father. It is also believed that Cyrus, but lost and took refuge in Borsippa. father's place, but what a time for revelry father shut up in a beleaguered fortress. banquet to a thousand of his lords, and against single glimpse of this prince. This scene we have of him, but it is enough. know, but in the East, feasts often extend was not an unusual time for the duration of to twice that, or fourteen days. It was a governors and princes, his lords and the mighty concubines, drinking and rioting and praising of iron, of wood, and of stone (Daniel 5:4). if they are bowing their knee to the god of Cyrus, the great Persian general, was outside had besieged Jerusalem. And this Belshazzar massive walls that encompassed Babylon. had forgotten the power of the God of the Heated with wine and lifted up with pride, golden vessels, which had been brought out at Jerusalem, and they drank from those sacred can readily believe that they scoffed at the scene before me and can imagine I hear them and were in the midst of their boisterous But stop! What was the matter? The king was changed, and he turned deathly pale. The wine He trembled from head to foot. I wonder if at him, thinking he was drunk. But along the letters of strange and unintelligible shape. of a man's hand came forth and wrote in front wall of the king's palace: and the king saw Above the golden candlestick,6 on a bare space of handwriting. He distinctly discerned the tracing on the palace wall the work of the same hand Or did some angelic messenger execute the man's hand seem to imply the latter. astrologers, the Chaldeans, and the soothsayers to them, Whoever shall read this writing and with purple and have a chain of gold about the kingdom (Daniel 5:7). writing, but they failed to understand it. this inscription baffled them. They couldn't man can make out the Bible. They did not understand A man must be born of the Spirit before he No uncircumcised eyes could decipher those The queen9 heard of the state of affairs and the king with the words, O king, live for let thy countenance be pale (Daniel 5:10). the kingdom who would be able to read the to say that in the days of Nebuchadnezzar, knowledge of God, was found in him (Daniel For some years, Daniel may have been comparatively But now for the third time, he stood before when the powers of the king's magicians and in, and his eyes lit up when he saw the letters the words. The king put forth his offer of gifts be for thyself and give thy rewards the king and show him the interpretation (Daniel But before he read the words upon the wall, he had long been praying for an opportunity going to let it slip away, even though all the king of the lessons he should have learned Nebuchadnezzar - of how that monarch had been kingly throne, because his heart made itself pride, until at length he came to repentance rule of the kingdom of men (Daniel 5:20-21). humbled thine heart, though thou knewest all Lord of heaven (Daniel 5:22-23). forth in their brilliant light, he reads: MENE; God has audited thy kingdom and finished TEKEL; Thou art weighed in the balances and PERES;11 Thy kingdom has been broken and is How the word of doom must have rung through Sinner, it is for you. What if God should Christ? What would become of your soul? Take The destruction did not delay. The king thought of Babylon were impregnable. But that same the doom of the king, Cyrus, the conquering course and channel and brought his army within palace was beaten back, and the Persian soldiers blood flowed and mingled with the spilled It was Belshazzar's last night. One short monarch. His life was short. The wicked do man, he had neglected or forgotten the holy and friend; he had turned away from the best had ever had - the one who probably had done his kingdom. But this was his end. are near you - death and hell, I say. And the sword of the slayer to those midnight Chapter 6 All the presidents of the kingdom, magistrates, in common accord to promote a royal decree petition of any God or man for thirty days, the den of lions. - Daniel 6:7 probably one of the high military commanders kingdom, while Cyrus was off conquering other the throne, he made arrangements for governing provinces, and he appointed a governor or he put three presidents to see that these the government. And over these three presidents, Very possibly Darius knew of Daniel and considered Somehow the king either knew or was told enough him. So Daniel was again in office. He held anyone could hold in that day. He was next he was the Bismarck or the Gladstone of the of state, and all important matters had to We do not know how long he held that position, the governors grew jealous and wanted Daniel &quot;Let us see if we can't get this sanctimonious You see, he was so upright, they could do and treasurers, but he kept such a close eye There was no chance of plundering the government and probably all the revenue accounts passed No doubt these enemies wanted to form an alliance. bow; they make ready their arrow upon the upright in heart (Psalm 11:2). They may have for this man, we could form an alliance; then, to enable us to retire from office and have we could go down to Egypt and see more of we would ever want, or our children either and manage things as we like to. The way things will take years and years for them to amount in our own hands, it would be different, for the affairs of this empire as does this old that we can't get any advantage over the government. Perhaps they worked matters to get an investigating But it was no use. If he had put any relatives out. And if he had been guilty of embezzlement the matter would have come to light. man on earth was pronounced upon Daniel at with the various parts of the kingdom, but to this conclusion: they could find no occasion nor fault was found in him. . . . We shall except we find it against him in the law of What a testimony from his bitterest enemies! had never taken a bribe; he had never been a friend into some lucrative office with the himself. If he had been guilty in any of these out. They had a keen scent for impropriety; actions and his history. They would have been would have led to his removal from his high &quot;We shall not find any occasion against him.&quot; early manhood, and he had shone all along. ointment (Ecclesiastes 7:1). Now he was an their testimony. There had been no sacrifice up of men's votes or men's consciences, no been none of that. He had walked straight Young man, character is worth more than money. securely, but he that perverts his ways shall more than anything else in the whole wide Daniel's enemies attributed to him than have that reached from earth to sky. I would rather than have all that this world can give. way. We will get the king to sign a decree, be the fiery furnace this time. We will have will soon do away with him.&quot; These plotters if men want to do any downright-mean business, The chief president himself was not there, Very likely some lawyer, who understood the said something like this: &quot;Gentlemen, I have rid of this old Hebrew. You know he will not We know that very well, and if a man had gone had to ask if Daniel loved the God of the have to ask, &quot;Is he a Christian?&quot; Let us so us. These men knew very well that Daniel worshipped God of the Hebrews, the God of Abraham, the people Israel out of Egypt, through the Red that very well. let's get Darius to sign a decree that if man for thirty days, except of the king, he us all keep perfectly quiet about this matter, our wives, or the news may spread through He has more influence with the king than all never sign the decree if he finds out what Then they may have said, &quot;We must draw it out of it after he has once signed it. We it, we shall have that Daniel in the lions' shall be hungry.&quot; came to the king and began their business for ever. When people approach me with smooth else in mind; I know they have some purpose these plotters went on to tell the king how people thought of him. Then, perhaps, in the he signed this decree, he would be remembered be a memorial forever of his greatness and &quot;What is this decree that you wish me to sign?&quot; might have said, &quot;I don't see any objection And one of the governors said, O king, confirm be moved, according to the law of Media and The king answered, &quot;Oh yes, the law of the signature to the decree and sealed it with request of these governors, he thought nothing carefully refrained from jogging his memory. said, All the presidents of the kingdom, magistrates, in common accord to promote a royal decree, at all about it (Daniel 6:7). him how popular he was and that he was liked They most likely tickled his vanity and told had ever reigned in Babylon. Then they may of him and his rule, and that they had been his popularity to make him more beloved. Then to do it. They would point out that if no days, it would make him a god and render him in Babylon, and his name would be handed down upon his name for thirty days, they would reckon him among the gods. anything, and Darius was like most of the that this would make him great. He thought them. to get out of the way, but also every conscientious of that wide empire who would bow down and they were going to sweep away in one stroke They hated them. not love Christians today. The world will life of a true Christian. The world is no world and like the world and escape persecution. you, it is a pretty sure sign that God doesn't for Christ Jesus, you must go against the So the presidents and governors were ready it would not be long before it spread through knew Daniel; they knew that he would not vacillate. would not turn to the right hand or the left; that way, he would not deny his God or turn to be true to his God. century; he was not one of your weak-backed, and courage. I can imagine that aged, white-haired over the accounts of some of these rulers Hebrews might have come to him and said, &quot;Oh &quot;No. What is it?&quot; this morning?&quot; What is the matter?&quot; Many of those princes have induced King Darius upon any other god in his kingdom for thirty objective is to cast you into the den. Now you will just flee Babylon for thirty days, You are the chief secretary and treasurer; government. You are an important man and can now. Or, if you decide to stay in Babylon, In any case, do not pray at the window that the last fifty years. If you pray, close that and stop up every crevice. People are sure Some of our nineteenth-century Christians &quot;Can't you find some important business to Can't you think of something that needs to off to Damascus? Or, surely you can say there can visit Nineveh. Or why not go as far as years have made? Anyway, just leave Babylon cannot catch you. For, depend upon it, they do, be sure they do not catch you on your Many men are ashamed to be caught upon their by his devoted wife, will jump up and walk objective in mind. How many young men there life but do not have the moral courage to How many young men say, &quot;Don't ask me to get Men don't have the moral courage to be seen of men have been lost because of a lack of at some critical moment they shrank from going worshippers of God - as being on the Lord's that is what we are. Shame on the Christianity sickly thing. If only we had a host of men I can picture that aged man Daniel with his miserable counselors, who would tempt him skin at the cost of his conscience. But their would receive a suggestion that he should Would he have been ashamed or afraid? Not he would not. their spies all around. But if you are determined your curtains, and stop up the keyhole, so your knees or overhear a single word. Accommodate little.&quot; &quot;Accommodate yourself to the times. Compromise there, to suit the opinions and views of a after walking with God for half a century thousand times, No! three times a day. Take note, he had time you he has no time to pray; his business is around him and ask God to bless them. He is and them from the temptations of the present is so pressing.&quot; minister: &quot;If you have so much business to have more business than God ever intended But look at this man. He had all, or nearly He was prime minister, secretary of state, He had to attend to all his own work and oversee to pray - not just now and then, nor once a few moments to spare. Daniel knelt three his God as he was used to doing before (Daniel the fifty-fifth psalm, and say: shall save me. and cry aloud, and he shall hear my voice. Busy as he was, he found time to pray. A man instead of losing it. He has a clearer head with more decision when circumstances require can cause to fall into place without hardly those who love Him. he trod that path so often that the grass those plotters knew where he would go to pray; would be made, and they were sure they could he had a purpose firm and dared to make it He went to pray as before with the windows (Daniel 6:10). Like Paul in later days, he saw Him who is invisible (2 Timothy 1:12; There was no need to trace back the church man had ever made a profession of faith. He any outsiders or whether they could hear. was his custom, he poured out his prayer to the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. He even our rulers. that, first of all, supplications, prayers, for all men, for kings, and for all that are peaceable life in all godliness and integrity our rulers, our country will go to pieces. we do not pray for them. Does Daniel pray to him. 120 princes took care of that. They themselves gathered together as listeners to do their reporters in that day, they would have been If they had the smallest chance, they would over the world within twenty-four hours. he was undaunted. If it was the will of God the lions' den, he was prepared. God's presence this testimony - that he pleased God (Hebrews Windows Open Toward Jerusalem At morning, noon, and night, to pray? Though in exile far away. Do not fear to tread the fiery furnace, For the God of Daniel will deliver, Children of the living God, take courage, Set your faces toward the hill of Zion, Are your windows open toward Jerusalem, we stay? Are you watching day by day? Chapter 7 Then the king commanded, and they brought - Daniel 6:16 city at that time, for all Babylon knew that old statesman was a man with an iron will, lions' den had few terrors to him. He would out of it without Him. to be in the lions' den with God and hold have money but no principles. I pity those I pity those men who have obtained their positions who has acquired his office dishonestly. How And how the Word of God lashes such men. Scripture: and the rust of them shall be a witness against fire (James 5:3). It does not pay to be false; even if it means having little money in our is best to have God with us and to know that I venture to say that Daniel was worth more - yes, worth more than forty thousand men true to the king. He prayed for him; he loved could that did not conflict with the law of And now the spies rushed to the king and cried, there is a man in your kingdom who will not &quot;A man who won't obey me! Who is he?&quot; set over us. He persists in calling upon his And the moment they mentioned the name of and the thought flashed into his mind, &quot;Ah, signed that decree. I should have known that he serves; he serves the God of his fathers.&quot; instead of condemning Daniel, he condemned he could manage to preserve Daniel unharmed. the palace, you would have seen the king walking troubled with the thought that this man must plain, for if Daniel were not in the lions' would be broken, and come what may, that law Darius loved Daniel, and in his heart he sought by which he might save Daniel but still preserve Daniel as much as your King loves you; he for if he had, he would have proposed to go us remember that Christ tasted death for us. and honour, who was made a little lower than he by the grace of God should taste death Those plotters must have had a suspicion about break the law which you yourself have made, will be gone. Your subjects will no longer you.&quot; So Darius was compelled to forsake Daniel; him and take him to the den. Daniel's enemies hungriest beasts in Babylon. to bind that old man with the white, flowing and bound his hands together. Those Chaldean to the king a few hours earlier - the noblest guarded him along the way that led to the he walked with a firm and steady step, bearing His knees were firm and didn't knock together. and all heaven was interested in that aged most popular man in heaven. Angels delighted stood firm; he had not deviated; he had not he walked with a giant's stride to the entrance They rolled a great stone to the mouth of And so, the law was kept. of God came down, and God's servant remained and they were as harmless as lambs. If you a man as calm as a summer evening. I do not knelt down as if he had been in his own chamber, compass in that den, he would have prayed city; he loved the temple. He probably prayed of Jerusalem. I can imagine him laying his If that were so, no one in Babylon slept more But there was one man in Babylon who had no into the king's palace, you would have seen went to his palace and lay down without eating; before him, and his sleep fled from him (Daniel for him that night. Away with music and singing! nothing. The servants brought him dainty food, he could not sleep. He had put the best man faulted himself for it. He might have said to such an act as that?&quot; grey dawn before the sun had risen, the men the king's chariot rolling over the pavement. He would have dismounted from his chariot the den, Daniel, servant of the living God, been able to deliver thee from the lions? Hark! A voice answered, and it was like a up to the king's ear, and he heard the words sent his angel, who shut the lions' mouths, righteousness was found in me; and even before 6:21-22). of his head were numbered. Whenever a man well for Daniel that he did not falter. Oh, he was. be taken up out of the den. Scripture: So injury was found upon him because he believed top, I think they must have embraced one another, and was driven back to the royal palace. There Maybe they sat down for a meal together, thankful No injury was found upon him. The God who in the fiery furnace, so that no smell of from the jaws of the lions. As the proverb says, Whosoever digs a pit ordered Daniel's accusers to be delivered the den, and the lions had the mastery of (Daniel 6:24). The LORD loves uprightness are preserved for ever, but the seed of the Young men, let us come out from the world; true to God; let us stand in rank, and keep our &quot;crowning time&quot; shall come by and by. be said of one or another of us: O man greatly character is more than money. It is worth fleeting and will soon be gone. It is worth and will soon be gone. But to have God with It is an eternal inheritance. at the tenth chapter, you will read that an greatly beloved. Another angel had brought Many are of the opinion that the one described is none other than the one like unto the Son to the Isle of Patmos (Revelation 1:13). People by himself, but no, the angel of God was with his own country and his own people. In this saw, and behold a man clothed in linens, whose he said unto me, Daniel, O man greatly beloved, unto thee, and stand up upon thy feet: for It was Daniel's need that brought this angel God by his side in that city of Babylon. As had come to him that he was greatly beloved. to tell him this three separate times. the people that do know their God shall be verses of the twelfth chapter also speak blessings sleep in the dust of the earth shall be awakened, and eternal confusion. And those that understand and those that teach righteousness to the (Daniel 12:2-3). and what a great consolation it was. The fact There is no doubt about that. Every mother at school by getting to the head of his class, and I suppose she has a right to do so. But ones to shine the brightest. For a few years in darkness; they have no inner light. Shining darkness. Where are the great men who did We know little of Nebuchadnezzar and the rest, humble men of God. We are not told that statesmen but they are soon forgotten. the days of Daniel. How wise in council they nations! What gods upon earth they were! Yet sand. What about the so-called philosophers? and scientific men, who go down into the bowels trying to make it talk against the voice of shall rot. one who shall shine as the stars forever and hundred years, but increasing millions read to the end of time. He will only become better brighter as the world grows older. Of a truth, . . . teach righteousness to the multitude And this blessed happiness of shining in the for everyone, as He has blessed us with all Christ (Ephesians 1:3). Even without the least shine. A poor working man or a poor sailor of God. The Bible does not say the great shall Many of God's people have a false impression is to be done for the souls of men, nine-tenths do it.&quot; It does not enter into the minds of The devil works to keep Christians from the Anyone can do this work. keeps swelling until it carries everything it until it becomes a mighty river; it has of all nations floating on its waters. So see the result, but a single soul multiplies Perhaps a million will be the fruit. We don't has turned many to righteousness shall indeed unlettered fishermen, the disciples of Jesus. in winning souls. There is not a child who created in Christ Jesus for good works, which (Ephesians 2:10). for God is that they don't have the desire qualifies him. And what we want is God's qualification; In our large meetings, there are frequently were living in communion with Christ, is it one soul to the Lord within a month? The Son refuse to work for Him when He supplies the souls saved if everyone did his or her work? of a meeting to see if Christians would speak watchers for souls, there would be multitudes cases. Every church would need an inquiry rooms would be crowded. These searchers are Christians lead them to Christ. They are timid to them about Christ. Let the prayer of every hire.&quot; What would be the result if this were shouts of praise to God and make heaven glad. of God over one sinner that repents (Luke there is a place for the Christian. What Art Thou Doing? Is it work for Christ thy Lord? By thy life, thy pen, thy word? What will thine answer be? Saying, &quot;Lord, my work for Thee?&quot; What doest thou in service - Are life and tongue in earnest Or art thou idly gazing Content with simply praising What doest thou, redeemed one, What glory to thy Father If no one brought Him honour, To thee it appertaineth What doest thou here? Wherever Oh, let each hour and moment Here! thou may'st do a life-work, Starlit and gem-surrounded, - Eva Travers Poole Dwight L. Moody - A Brief Biography 1837, in Northfield, Massachusetts. His father leaving his mother with nine children to care he left for Boston to work as a salesman. Edward Kimball, Moody's Sunday school teacher. a Sunday school class of his own. By the time shoe salesman, earning $5,000 in only eight of the nineteenth century. Having decided to engage in Christian work for only $300 D. L. Moody was not an ordained minister, told by Henry Varley, a British evangelist, will do with a man fully consecrated to Him.&quot; be that man.&quot; without the help of television or radio, Moody to more than one million people, and personally individuals. Moody once said, &quot;Some day you will read in is dead. Don't you believe a word of it! At now. I shall have gone up higher, that is house that is immortal; a body that death fashioned like unto His glorious body. I was Spirit in 1856. That which is born of the will live forever.&quot;