Let's bake again. So this is one of your most requested This is bakery-favorite. This is Filipino Style Egg Pie. Not really Filipino style because others they call it as 'Egg Tarts' Ours is really a because the one on top that So how am I gonna do that? Let's start it. So very basic. First, this recipe will If you find it too much, Just cut it into half and I have here a basil. So for a while, I have here pie plate, What we're measuring is The main size of the pie. Because this one is So this is a 9-inch pie plate, Let's start by preparing the crust. Very very easy. So first, I have here Just put in a bowl. White sugar. This is salted butter. If you're using unsalted butter, Right? So for the butter, This one is just cool butter. Not that too soft, And then I have egg So there. First, the first step is You don't need a mixer, the So once you crumble it, because remember, to achieve the butter should have a bit You're not gonna melt it here in the mixture You don't want a long contact I have here ice cold water, If you also don't have ice, then the So there, you just You're just gonna pour enough So there, as you It already formed. We just pour a Just in case this you can just get, I have here You just put a bit. Just like that. And then you just I'll just remove this You just want to mix this until it And again, do not overmix it. You can add a And this is ready. Okay. Since we're gonna make two, So there, half per piece. And for example, you are Do not force it. You just put clean You wrap it with clean wrap, And then you roll it the but me I'm already ready So to roll it, I have here I have here And then I'm just going to dust it with Dust it with some flour and which I'm going to dust Right? So simple only. First, you want to round and then when you're rolling, you'll notice because with the help of the parchment, So that I can roll You can observe, right? What I do is that when I roll, There it is, right? So center up, go back to the center, In that way, you can assure It doesn't need that you make it as long as the important And then put more flour, If it sticks, Some flour. You raise it a bit, a little bit of flour What size do you want? Slightly bigger than the So just near right? Just keep on rolling it. Don't worry, right? Sometimes in the start, it will tear but you So there. Slightly bigger So again, it might get tear, you just rest it a bit, Making pie crust is You can't really perfect but if you keep on practicing, you can roll it again, You just need to be patient. So I'm going to roll this, You'll just put some flour and then You raise it a bit like that, There it is, right? It's perfect already going and now, you just lay it There it is, right? And do not force it, Just slowly. So there. So it's laid already. Things shouldn't be forced, it should Because when you are gonna force it, there's a That's true because you stress it, the more that will go back to its original Okay, so there. The next thing that you want and then I'm just going to cut the excess, Okay, and then what I'm going to This is a bit thin so I will Okay. And then you can or what I'm going to do I will pinch it but gentle only. So how do we do that? Look. Okay two fingers, Just like that. So there it is, So just like heart, right? So you put your heart There is it, right? And then you just set it aside It doesn't have Let's roll it one more time. You'll just master it Make sure it's not sticking. Check the size. So it has to be slightly bigger You roll it going to you and you position So that it will be exact. And of course, Remove the excess, You fold. You have to be gentle. If there's a lacking area like this, so you can make So see? You will not waste And then you make Okay. There is it, right? It doesn't have to be perfect. Now, I'm going to clean up Of course, a good quality crust requires it won't make you So this time, let's make Very simple. So first, of course, I have here whole eggs, Egg yolks, into the bowl. And then I'm going to put We just combine it, This is evaporated milk The vanilla will be the one For this recipe, you don't need Actually, what my mother look for Right? That when you use That's like the very And then as I mix this, You just mix it slowly. Okay, just mix it like that I'm just going to beat egg You just beat it with a High-speed, Until you can see that there, As simple as that only. This one will give the nice So this, you mix it here. As simple as that only. Mix it. And then I have here Just to make sure You want all that bubbles. So don't throw the That one will give the nice brown and then you just pour it here That is really exact. Okay. So you want to make sure that So there, just like this, Isn't it amazing? And then of course, Into this, I'm just going This one will be the egg wash, Let's just brush the sides of our crust a Just like that. So that the crust Okay. This goes into a I will just put a tray like this. I will put it on a tray. You can notice that the sheet It's not required though, you might It's not a requirement It's just nice if it has holes for So I'm going to bake it, 350degF. I will put it slowly, So let's go back on it If you want the filling, not that really firm for So after around an hour, you can see Look. There it is, right? If you want it darker, you can Me, I'm gonna stop now already my mother told me So she said that I should So I will stop it here now but you can still bake it for And then I'm going you let it cool first If you're really impatient already, you made coffee already, before you take it out from the pan There's a chance that Okay, so I'm going to let this cool down and So here it is. Since I am really impatient I put it inside the freezer although If you're wondering how do we You can just get a Okay, you flip it like that. That's the crust, the beneath There it is, right? It just sticked a bit One more time. Because it it still hot but if it Oh my! This is challenging So there. Since it's heavy, but there's no problem with And then, there, Look how smooth. My mother would be happy because Right? So you can see how smooth Right? And of course, the best I will just taste here so So there. I'm using my bare hands, Divine. It won't make you feel fed up and And the crust is perfectly Flaky. We didn't put shortening, we didn't It's actually still hot though, It's still hot that's why If it is still hot, It might split up. So just like this, let's put I know the next question is: &quot;Chef, I am gonna sell it, You can use butter compound, Butter compound is half butter, That's the cheaper butter Those are the Golden what other brands Family spread, That if the butter is above this for those brands is There is it, right? Use that alternatively. Of course, not that pure I love it. I love how smooth it is. See? It's so delicious. So what now? Make this already. Don't wait anymore so that the nice crust on top that So thank you, happy baking, and