What is up engineheads? Today I have something really A brand new inline 4 cylinder engine. One that has the potential to it has the potential to be a really has overcome the single greatest limiting And that is its displacement. Now, to understand why this engine could be why every inline 4 cylinder engine is limited Now, if you've been watching where I talk about the engine balance you've probably noticed that I talk a lot Now, primary and secondary is one of the single greatest design Now, if you already know about these, you to skip right to this brand-new inline 4 Or you can keep watching for a detailed secondary engine balance, which why this engine has the Now, the piston reciprocates. It moves up and down. The crankshaft rotates. But the connecting rod, Because it both reciprocates and rotates. It has a very complex motion happening. And to understand why this is a problem, And the basics are this: The distance from the topmost position to the bottom most position of the This distance between these two This is the distance that the piston travels For the sake of simplicity, let's imagine So, every piston stroke So, when the crankshaft is at 0deg of rotation, When the crankshaft rotates to 180deg of rotation, So, logic tells us, when the crankshaft is at the piston should also be at half of the stroke, right? The piston should be at 50mm of distance covered. Well, if we actually rotate the crankshaft we're going to find out that the piston has In our case, if the stroke is 100mm, it's usually going to be somewhere So why is this happening? It doesn't seem logical. If the crankshaft is at half of the stroke, the Why does the piston cover more than half of the stroke, during the Well, the culprit behind Because it moves in this to understand why this happens, we have We have to isolate the connecting rod. Now, watch. When the engine is at 0deg of rotation, when connecting rod is fully upright, right? But once we rotate the we can see that the connecting rod is It's now at an angle. It's sloped. And if we isolate the connecting rod, we the connecting rod, standing up straight The vertical measurement of the angled connecting So for example, let's imagine that at an Its vertical measurement is 8mm shorter Well, this means. during the 90deg of rotation, it's going to So instead of covering 50mm during the 90deg of the crankshaft's rotation, So why does this even matter? I mean, who cares? Well, physics cares. We know that force is mass x acceleration. Obviously, the piston's mass doesn't change. As the engine is running, the piston But what the piston's also is that it's constantly For example, starting from top dead And then it reaches its maximum velocity And then as it's going down towards bottom dead And then as it reaches bottom dead center, Changes direction. And again accelerates away So the piston is constantly The problem is that, 90deg of the crankshaft rotation, the Because it's covering a greater distance, it has to accelerate more during Which means that the forces associated with are unequal to the forces associated with the The mass is the same, The faster something is moving, The greater the inertia of The more force we need to stop it. And this difference in and bottom half of the piston stroke, are The inline 4 has good primary balance, Each piston mass can be balanced But when it comes to secondary balance, It's bad, because when two pistons the other two pistons are doing the same thing. But at BDC. They're always at the opposite ends of the stroke. This means that the difference in or first and second half of the stroke are made very apparent in the inline 4 engine. And then this force inequality is even more apparent by the fact that the pistons are moving in pairs. So now Why the inline 4 cylinder engine is limited So obviously, the larger the the larger you have to make the pistons. The larger the pistons, the greater their mass. And here we have two imaginary As you can see, they have the same difference or the first and second half of the engine stroke. They do have different pistons, however The first engine has a small mass piston. And the second engine has a And as you can see, the forces associated with the top and They're larger in the engine And the larger the forces associated with the larger the difference in force, the more destructive the vibrations as Actually, there's a disclaimer here. You can, in fact, However, you have to sacrifice something. And you have to sacrifice RPM. The Max RPM potential of the engine. And this answers why any large mass-produced has been a low Max RPM diesel engine. Either in a truck, Gasoline engines, performance-oriented inline 4 have always been limited to a maximum size of 3 liters. You cannot find a mass-produced And even at this size, they need And these band-aids are called balancing shafts. A balancing shaft is just that. Well, a shaft. It's a rotating shaft And it rotates together with the engine. And by doing so, it tries to counteract the forces associated with primary or But there's a problem with balancing shafts. They're simply a necessary evil. Nobody really wants to use them, because They only fight the symptoms. Balancing shafts add weight, moving parts, The balancing shafts needed to fix Because secondary vibrations occur you need two balancing shafts that rotate at That's a lot of moving parts. And a lot of friction. But if we ignore the secondary balance issues, It's a great all-rounder. First of all, it's really small and compact. So you can fit it into a really It also doesn't have too many moving parts. So it isn't overly complex, It's also pretty smooth. Because it has a really nice primary balance, Also, because it doesn't have too many It doesn't have too much friction. Which means that it's pretty efficient. And efficiency is the name of the game today. Efficiency is the reason why so many moving towards engines with fewer cylinders. In theory actually, If we could make the four with But to make a large inline 4, And even with balancing shafts, the inline But let's imagine that it isn't limited. The problem with balancing shafts We're using the inline 4 because and less friction than an But then we're adding friction and It really doesn't make that much sense. If only, if only... there was a better way to make the Well, apparently there is. Now, a few days ago I was fact-checking and And then I stumbled upon this page. This is the Start Engine investor page for Alfadan Incorporated. Never heard of them? Well, neither have I. Well, apparently, they're making a and they're looking for investors, and they That's not what's interesting here. What's interesting is, that this brand new engine, is an inline 4 cylinder that aims to outdo V6 and Now, I'm not really familiar with But apparently, the problem with growing in size over the growth was to simply fit more engines Although this works, Because more engines means: More drag More weight More maintenance cost More friction More fuel consumption. You know, you do get to move the boat at But you're really paying a big penalty for that. Now, this is where things get crazy. Alfadan claims that their brand new inline With 50% less weight. And 50% moving parts, than all competitor engines. So what takes 6 competitor engines? Now, you can do the same with only 3 Alfadan inline 4 engines. Yeah, I've been around long enough to know is usually just that. It's too good to be true. But nevertheless, this caught my and I decided to you know keep reading. And then here as you can see here on the page they balance issues with inline 4 cylinder engines, But down below they claim to have solved this cylinder drive train, which will make it first large-displacement inline 4 cylinder engine Okay. Bold claims. So I kept scrolling down and things Apparently, this isn't just In fact, a proof of concept of this brand and a feasibility study, has already been done. And not just by anyone. It has been done by Mahle powertrain. Now, if you're at all familiar with is one of the most reputable in the industry For example, the pistons in the I think that says enough. Mahle has been at the forefront of and efficiency improvement for more than a decade. But that's not all. Because these guys, Alfadan, they Freevalve. You've definitely heard of these guys. It's the sister company of been making news headlines for quite some time. Because they developed a camless engine. Camless, as in, no camshafts. Instead, each valve is pneumatically Which means infinite possibilities, and infinite control, over how long Which means infinitely increased But also, it reduces the size of the cylinderhead, because there's no camshafts, no cam Which means dramatically increased efficiency Dramatically reduced friction. Basically, It's a very big deal. So we have a brand new inline 4 cylinder, but also it has a completely that has apparently solved the It's pretty much the only issue So obviously I get pretty excited about this. And I decided to get in touch with Alfadan. Honestly, I didn't expect much But guess what? And turns out Mr Albert is an enginehead just like So we ended up speaking at a length about the potential, and so on and so forth. Now, there's been a lot of development But it isn't going to be released just yet. So Mr Albert had to protect of the company, so he really couldn't But what he did tell me is this. He told me we have reinvented the connecting rod. If there has ever been a big bombastic claim, when it comes to inline 4 engines This is it. It's a pretty big deal. And I really really hope it means what it means. Because if it means what it means, it And it's going to make the inline 4 cylinder Now, in addition to telling me this, Mr Albert did tell me that the engine This is the rendering of the engine. Based on actual SolidWorks files of the engine. So this is very accurate, And he told me that this Naturally aspirated. It's 7.5 liters, inline 4, capable of And it makes 654 naturally aspirated hp. Inline 4 I dare you, you can go to any library, look at every single file and I guarantee one thing, you're never at 7.5 liters, that does 5500 RPM. So obviously this is a big deal. It has the potential to if this engine becomes a And to me, it looks like it has good Because it doesn't look like just another some pretty big names behind it, and has a So I hope it becomes reality, because I'm also really really curious about How exactly does it work? How exactly does it eliminate I'm really really curious about that. But also, this has the potential to not just But it can trickle down from that In the future, we might see, you relatively compact, large-displacement, But also at the same time, improving efficiency, Because it has less moving parts. But also the engine is compact, so it And improves vehicle dynamics. And how and where you can place the an inline 4 in many different ways, while you So as you can probably tell, Because it is really really interesting. So yeah the only sad piece of information, is that But Mr Alberto Araujo did end the they will do their best to include me in So when there are any future updates, to share them with you guys here on the channel. So yeah I'm not very good at being So that's why in the meantime, we will with other really fun and interesting So yeah, that's pretty much it for today. As always, thanks all for watching. I'll be seeing you soon with On the D4A channel.