(rock music) - And now the man of you dainty wigger, you. Justin Bieber, they say that but I don't like you at all, man. I'm just here 'cause this is a real good opportunity for me. (audience laughs) Justin, oh, you got to He started from the bottom (audience laughs) I don't like your music, man. I'm not a big fan of it. I listened to some of it, I'm not a fan, I don't like your music. I think it's bad, I think it's (he laughs) I hate your music, man. I hate your music more than - Unlike everyone here tonight, I personally have a great I play it at all my parties when it's late and I want everyone to leave immediately. Bruce and I are actually neighbors. We're in the same town in Bedford. He has a wonderful house. The interior design is amazing. He wanted everything inside except his new wife. (audience laughs) I remember when Bruce he hand delivered the invitation and I told him I'll catch the next one. (audience laughs) - George, Nichelle, it's really great to see you. Because of our work together on the bridge of the fabled Enterprise, it broke a lot of stereotypes. Not only did we take a chance and allow an Asian gentlemen to drive, (audience laughs) we had a black woman sitting who didn't yell things at it. (audience laughs) George, the last time I will (audience laughs) And Nichelle, thank you very much. (audience laughs) - You know, the whole time Bob and I were doing Full House, he Funniest Home Videos. He did that show for so long, he can't get a boner waxes balls with a Whipple bat. (audience laughs) What a tough gig that must've been, huh? His entire job consisted of which is what he used to in her dressing room. (audience gasp and laugh) - Whitney, what's your deal? You look like the chicks I used to bang before I had all this money. (people laughing) - Do it baby, do it! - Okay, yeah. we call ugly chicks grenades, but I actually wouldn't 'cause you're not blowing up anytime soon. (people laugh) Hey (he laughs). (audience laughs) Hey, Jeff Ross, what's up man? - What's up buddy? - Jeff, me and you have - What's that? and tonight's my first night doing comedy. (audience laughs) - It's also your last (audience laughs) - And now we come to the Yes, indeed, Joan has been, hi baby. (audience applaud) Joan has been in show and still going strong. Joan has had her face on more red carpets than an Irish lesbian, (audience laughs) Joan, and I know this is a fact, Joan has (bleep) more old (audience groan and laugh) - Nice! - Most of you know that Joan, she sells beauty products on QVC. I don't have a joke for that, I just think that it's hilarious - Look at this cast. Fat guys, old ladies and an Asian. I feel like I'm on a bus to Atlantic City. (audience laughs) Look at this, Nichelle Nichols, Farrah Fawcett and Betty White. I'll take women I would for a thousand, Alex. (audience laughs and cheers) What a cruel joke, three women you'd want and one, I wouldn't (audience laughs) - We are here roasting Flavor Flav. You had your own show, The Flavor of Love, which I didn't, I didn't know syphilis had a flavor. I had no idea, that was so odd. And by the way, I don't on that show were skanky, but there were times I would is this The Flavor of Love That is how (bleep) up, at the Flavor Flav roast, Ah, yes. - Joseph Gordon-Levitt everyone! (audience cheer) He's so cute, so adorable. I bet you eat pussy, but only (audience laughs) Isn't that his luck? Speaking of crusty pussy, I'll get to you in a second, Cybill, I... (audience laughs) I know, I know. Martha Stewart, shank you for being here. (audience laughs) - Shanking. - Seriously, and that Thai soccer team out of your vagina. (audience laughs and gasps) And into your sweat shops. That's where they are now. Surprisingly, Martha said that Just, you know, as long as (audience groans) She loves attention to detail. Is she laughing? (audience laughs) I'm terrified of her. (audience laughs) - Bruce, I see you now. And I see, and I see and I'm so proud of you. I'm so proud of you. I remember when we had we would go to your house And we would, we loved each other. We would wash each other's taints. And I always made sure before you went out. (audience laughs) Bruce wasn't even the Demi Moore was. (audience laughs and cheers) It's funny, I see you, and I see you with your daughters, and I see the love and And I think about how you about his daughter's sexual prowess. You know, they always brag, Freshman year of college, boys, girls, dogs, he didn't give (bleep). You ever hear a father Hear that up there? Listen to that, that's my (audience laughs) Yeah, that's my baby, that's our youngest. She always loved cock. (audience laughs) The bigger, the better. She always had men lined Guys tag teaming up from behind, high fiving over a jizz-filled backdrop and loads in her ear, What can I tell you, huh? She's just like her mother, that kid. (audience laughs) - Where's my Knight Rider fans? I know you're out there. (audience cheer and applaud) What a lucky break. What are the odds an about a car that drives itself. (audience laughs) That's a good one. I heard The Hoff once got so drunk, he (bleep) KITT in the gas hole. (audience laughs) - And now for some jokes. A drunken farmer stumbles upstairs into his bedroom, waking She sits up and sees her husband holding a sheep under his arm. The farmer yells, this is Roseanne says, you idiot, The farmer yells, shut the fuck up, I was talking to the sheep! (audience laughs) - Where, where is James Franco? Come on. Okay. I got to go. You take over. - [Seth] What the fuck - All right. Spidey pose. Genius. - Mr. Franco, I'm so - Late? F. - [Man] Lovely, beautiful, (audience laughs) - Congratulations, Doctor. thank you. - [Man] James Franco documentary - Hit it. All right, here we go. (audience cheer and applaud) (upbeat music) - Ladies and gentlemen, Justin Bieber. (audience cheer and applaud) (upbeat music) Got to belieb Got to belieb We're gonna make a belieber Belieber out of me When you belieb When you belieb You'll be down praying Gonna be a belieber till the day I die Shout I belieb from the mountain high Got to belieb Got to belieb He's gonna make a belieber Belieber out of me Oh, shit! Oh, shit! We killed the white boy. The white, watch out, watch out! Let me through, Jesus, no. Not like this. Wait, wait, he's moving, he's moving! He's still alive We thought he died You can kill Justin Bieber 'Cause you got to got to belieb (audience cheer and applaud) Yeah! Justin Bieber, everybody! - Ladies and gentlemen, we are here tonight to honor nearly four decades in entertainment. Mr. David Hasselhoff. (audience cheer and applaud) Looking at this turnout, David, I can honestly say that Seth McFarland, Jeffrey I haven't seen this many geeks since I gang banged the cast of Glee. (audience laughs) But I digress. David Hasselhoff is a legend. (audience cheer and applaud) David Hasselhoff started his career on The Young and the Restless. Now he's known as the (audience laughs) Man, David, were you ever a drunk? I don't want to say David drank a lot, but his liver was so black and bloated, it could have starred in Precious. (audience laugh and groan) David Hasselhoff's liver is so black, it's fucking two of (audience laughs) - Mario, I didn't even know you were gay. (audience laughs) I didn't. I like... Some men like men and well, women are probably the number one reason why I'm not a homosexual today. (audience laughs) I blew one guy, but I (audience laughs) I'm teasing, I'm kidding, But... (audience laughs) - Rob Lowe. (audience laughs) People may be wondering what Well, years ago I was cast I'm sure none of you saw it But anyway, the first script said that Rob and I were supposed to if they could rewrite it because I knew where that mouth had been. But they said no, and I had to do it, so years later, Rob wrote in his memoir that I was the only girl in history who did not want to kiss Rob Lowe. He talked about it on his book tour, he bitched about it on Howard Stern, he even made out with Ellen Yeah. Well that part I actually because kissing him did (audience laughs) So Rob, I know you've always wondered why I didn't kiss you that day. So tonight I will tell you why in song. (audience cheer) (gentle guitar music) Rob was so shocked on the Lion's Den When I did not want to kiss him You see the problem Rob You completely forgot 'Cause you showed me your penis When I was just 16-ish Back in 1988 I was the (audience laughs) Maybe you missed my name On so much cocaine Out of all your films I'm the best thing you were ever in (audience laughs) - Look at her, she's a cougar! Freddy Krueger. (audience laughs) Of course, tonight is actually favorite charity, Melissa Rivers. (audience laughs) Oh, look at her, the lovely Melissa. Look at her, you're like (audience laughs) You have your mother's nose. It's in the will. (audience laughs and applauds) You're amazing, Joan. 40 years of telling it like it is, you got the biggest balls in the business and Joan her whole life, all she wanted to just be And good news is your doctor says you're only three surgeries away. (audience laughs) - Anyway, I'll start with the Sarah Silverman is here. (audience laughs and cheers) Sarah and I actually Take This Waltz, which she was great in. She actually did full which was fantastic. It was amazing, I always but it turns out she's actually (audience laughs) Huge! - They say you only So this is gonna be short. (audience laughs) It's been a rough year for comedy. Not only did the world lose Greg Giraldo, (audience applaud and cheer) but even worse. It kept Jeff Ross. (audience laughs) - Wow, that's harsh! - And now onto the guest (audience cheer and applaud) You know, I heard you on your face and I'm that was money well spent. That baby is tight and you don't fuck the face? Well, in your case, I'll take my chance. (audience laughs) Plus, that work is gonna Melissa, a fortune in (audience laughs) She can still cart you around (audience laughs and groans) Hey, hey, hey! I don't mean to, I don't I just hate it when someone to further their own career. Melissa, that's my gig, bitch. - Wow, fucking, wow. You know, I personally asked only because I needed some clean urine. Had to ring it out of the (audience laughs) (William laughs) - Wow, look at this cast a someone must've told the of Kenny Rogers roasters, 'cause you guys are a bunch of chickens. Thank you. (audience laughs) It's a chicken based The lovely Sarah Silverman is here. (audience laughs) I hate to break it to you, Sarah, but you're getting older and you know who else is getting older? My mom, I'm scared, she's gonna die soon, what's that gonna be like? Roasted you, roasted Sarah. Okay, who's my next victim? (audience laughs) Natasha Leggero is here. She's basically a complete unknown, but tonight we're getting (audience laughs) Got you. Well guess what, Natasha, you but I can never experience the miracle of birthing a child, roasted you. (audience laughs) Expect letters, Comedy Central. If you don't want controversy, you shouldn't have invited the king. (audience laughs) - Jeff Ross, what was You are disgusting. Your dick in a Speedo, looks like a hamster (audience laughs) Jeff, you are so disgusting, I wouldn't have sex with and you were Brooke Hogan. (audience groan) George Hamilton is here, okay, whatever. George you're so tan, The only difference is that Mexicans work. (audience laugh and applaud) Lisa Lampanelli is here, so funny. Lisa, they say women's Yours is more like a football field, because it's a hundred yards have sprained their ankle on it. (audience laughs) Lisa, you look like Susan (audience laughs) Lisa, your vagina's like a bad movie, it opened wide and all have been in it. (audience laughs) Speaking of we know you're bald, just take off the bandana You're a disaster. You're always running like you have less sperm in your balls than Pam has in her mouth right now. (audience laughs) - This is my first roast, and Ooh, I've heard words here tonight that I have never heard before. Like Lil. (audience laughs) And Rel. Lil Rel, I'm glad you're here to apologize for calling the (audience laughs) - Don't worry, Alec, nothing said here tonight will be meaner than what you left on (audience laughs) Alec, sit back, unclench your fists, and I promise this will you've ever been a part of that Tina Fey didn't carry you through. (audience laughs) - But you know, with all those like the ones about crab why is there no show about the being an escort for Charlie Sheen? (audience laughs) How long must we wait for the first season of deadliest snatch? I'm ready to see that right now. (audience laugh and applaud) - Colin Quinn's here. His member is tiny. I feel sorry for his wife. She has to put hot sauce on his penis just so she could feel something. (audience laughs) Don't you laugh at a sex joke, You couldn't get it up with (audience laughs) Ron White has disappointed more (audience laugh and applaud) Usually I feel bad that guys Tonight, I feel lucky. (audience laughs) - When Paris Hilton was still in diapers, Pamela Anderson was already (audience laughs) She loves rock stars. The woman has screwed more (audience laugh and applaud) Pam, you do know that blow me (audience laughs) - Charlie, you are a monster. Every moment of your life looks of Law and Order SVU. (audience laughs) Charlie, I don't understand for what you have right now. I mean, after all, the in the first place is because (audience laughs) - And now it's time to bring comedy legend, Joan Rivers. (audience cheer and applaud) Chug, chug, chug, chug, chug, chug, chug, chug, (audience cheer and applaud) (audience gasp and laugh) I was kidding, I was, ow! (bleep) you! to your God-damn plastic surgeon. - Oh yeah, shut up! - It's good to see Comedy with whatever race Pete Davidson is. He just looked weird, just real vague man, weird vague ass face, and I don't like it. (audience laughs) I don't like your face at all, you know? You seem like a nice person, but when I talk to you, I don't have fun. (audience laughs) Pete, Pete has got a lot going on, Pete, I don't know how you can juggle SNL, stand up and Lorne Michaels all at the same time. (audience laughs) An amazing multi-tasker Pete Davidson is. - And here it is! (audience cheer and applaud) Good Lord, thank you so much. This is awesome. Good to see my buddy Toby here tonight. He's a good buddy of His blood's red, his picket fence is white and his last album blue. (audience laughs) You know what, Toby always with crusty waitresses and and signs out front to Greg Giraldo. But Greg, don't worry, one day, opportunity will knock on your door, and you will answer. And we'll ask for directions (audience laughs) - All right, guys. And now a real treat for Ann Coulter's coming up. Ann hopes the Republicans so she can continue to haunt it. (audience laughs) She seems stiff and conservative, but Ann gets wild in the (audience laughs) - I was classically I improvised, no script, no director, just me and the donkey. (audience laughs) Five sold out shows a night for six years till the donkey died of exhaustion. (audience laughs) Then I was finally ready for Hollywood. (audience laughs) What have you nothing's done? My YouTube video has 400 hits. (audience laughs) Fuck a donkey, then talk to me. (audience laughs) Now, get up here, Stamos, (audience cheer and applaud) - Thank you, Tranny Bonaduce. (audience laughs) Kathy, you look like Lucille Ball's corpse, then pushed it down a flight of stairs. (audience laughs) What's with all the surgery, Kathy? Lord, you've been stitched but you're still sad to look at. You're like the AIDS quilt. (audience laughs) What a night. A couple of trolls, a fairy and a giant all going after a sunken who's obsessed with jewelry. It's like the Lord of the Rings. (audience cheer and applaud) For the land of the free And the home of the brave (audience cheer and applaud) - Corolla, look at you, (audience laughs) Corolla, you got a Every time you smile, I (audience laughs) Corolla is an Italian word. It means one eyebrow. (audience laughs) Have some dignity and stick to radio. You look like Pete Sanfords (audience laughs) The Love Lines, only in America. What a crappy show The Love Lines is. Yeah, teenagers calling in to complain about their abortions It's like listening to the messages on Andy Dick's answering machine. (audience laughs) - How about a hand for tonight's host, Joseph Boredom-Levitt. (audience laughs) J G L! Joseph Gordon-Levitt. The only three words more (audience laughs) Thanks for dressing up, Joseph. You look like a lesbian (audience laughs) - Lisa Lampanelli. You are an inspiration to I'm sure you'll never because it's too hard for (audience laughs) But if I could offer one tiny helpful bit of constructive criticism, each and every one of those black penises thrust into your vagina is really a dagger stabbing (audience laughs) - You know, I have been a huge Trekkie, ever since the show first aired. And that's why I'm so and George Takei here tonight we all know Shatner's nuts, but George has actually tasted them. (audience cheer, laugh and applaud) Oh, it always makes me laugh, when I see Artie Lang on stage, knowing I'm gonna outlive him. (audience laughs) - Hello, Jeff, ist de Heidi. (speaking foreign language) - Hey, it's me, Heidi. Yo, Jeff, what's up? Check it out, I'm chilling but I wanted to give you I said, hell, Jeff's my dog, and that mullet headed Yo Jeff, remember the at the club, did she say cold lamping? I think she did, and you was And I was like, aiit. You busted out all that redneck flavor. Man, you got us white people down cold. - Sean, you know what? I'm not gonna stand up here jokes into the ground, all right? I'm not Will and Grace. (audience laughs) Larry Bird is here. I mean, Nikki Glaser is here. (audience laughs) - That hurts me, that hurts. (audience cheers and laughs) - You know, the only and Nikki Glaser is Larry (audience groan) - Devastating! - I'm sorry, I'm sorry, (audience laughs) I was, yeah. Nikki, look at you. You damaged little climber. (audience laughs) You know, Nikki was the only girl kicked off Jeffrey Epstein's (audience laughs) - I really didn't want to come One, unlike the rest of the people up here on this stage, I'm aware that I'm not a comedian. (audience cheer and applaud) Two, I haven't had much sleep. I had a terrible, terrible that I was at my mother's funeral. The worst part was I was 75. (audience laughs) And three, to be really, really honest, it has hurt me very much obnoxious and foul mouthed, and you are all wrong, (audience laughs) She was an amazing mother growing up. She taught me everything And I remember so clearly, so clearly when I asked her what's a, and without hesitation, she said to me, 50 bucks, two dinners and a watch. (audience laughs) - We all know there's a good chance Charlie will be dead soon, (audience laughs) Charlie Sheen, who due to his problems with drugs and alcohol was found dead in his apartment. Actually, you know what, I kind of actually just copied (audience laughs) I only had to change three things though. The sex of the deceased, the location of the body and the part that says a (audience laughs) - We love Charlie! - Jeff, how am I the one and you're the one who of elbows to the face. (audience laughs) You ugly mother (bleep). Look at Jeff. Jeff got a body like a cafeteria lady. (audience laughs) My main man, Chris Paul from (audience cheer) Hey Chris, where are you guys playing? You ain't gonna be getting a ring. I got four of them, if (audience laughs) You guys suck. (audience laughs) - Andy Samberg. Hi, how are you? Andy's comedy group is which is how each of his teeth feel. (audience laughs) Andy, I'm looking forward of Dick in a Box at Lauren (audience laughs) - Jesus! - Bill Hader, you are this Hopefully. (audience gasps and laughs) - Jeff Ross is a legend. His funniness is a legend. But when I say legend, I mean a myth, (audience laughs) like the Lochness monster We all believe they exist, (audience laughs) - What do you call a woman for female comics? A comedian who's entertained on TV for years. What do you call an icon, a beloved icon, that's part of the fabric of this country? You call her Carol Burnett. (audience laughs) But we love you anyway, Joan, goodnight! - How you doing, Franco? You look like Johnny Depp with lupus. (audience laughs) Bill Hader, holy mackerel, so hilarious. That was great. (audience cheer and applaud) - Too bad you can't do with two equally sized eyes. (audience laughs) Man, look at that, get a close up. (audience laughs) I've heard of the lazy eye, but that left one's (audience laughs) - Listen, I'm just gonna cut to the chase. Justin Biber, Justin Bieber. (audience laughs) As far as I'm concerned, Here's a couple of things I know. September 1st, 2014, Bieber with a minivan in his hometown of Stratford, Ontario, Canada. And then beat up the Nice work. (audience laughs) October 18th, 2010, Bieber a 12 year old at a laser tag arena. Ka-boom! (audience laughs) I only wish the kid was a nine-year-old. (audience laughs) March 28th, 2013. Bieber flies into Munich Doesn't have the proper paperwork. So he leaves it at a zoo in Germany. It's a monkey. (audience laughs) It's named Malley. Don't think twice, you (audience laughs) March 4th, 2013, two hours late to a concert in Dubai because he refused to Say what? (audience laughs) Hocked a loogie at his neighbor that Bieber was driving in his gated community neighborhood. Eat that, bitch! (audience laughs) July 10th, 2013, Bieber pees (audience laughs) As he runs off, he sprays a with a bottle of blue liquid (audience laughs) This kid has spunk, moxie and probably a few other STDs, okay? (audience laughs) - It hasn't been easy being the daughter of an iconic movie star, but I'm not here to talk about my mother. (audience laughs and cheers) Or her Oscar. (audience laughs) - Charlie, if you're winning, then something's wrong with (audience laughs) Come on, man. Charlie, if you're winning, then this must not be a (audience laughs) Only time your kids get (audience laughs) Charlie, don't you want to live (audience laughs) Martin Sheen and Emilio Estevez said they would have been here tonight, but they had a family obligation. (audience laugh and applaud) Charlie Sheen has paid for so much sex, he keeps his credit card (audience laughs) - For years, Rob Lowe had a sex addiction, but he cured it by getting less famous. (audience laughs) I remember the first time I was at a casting meeting for Tommy Boy, when I came across your headshot, and I do mean came across. (audience laughs) - I want to talk about These guys are like, And by that, I mean old and (audience laughs) The tour grossed 15 You know, this is at a time when your fans have so many other entertainment options. You know, they, they and burned a cross or you know what I mean? They had other choices, you they got all gussied up in and they, they jumpstart the El Camino and they take the hard on an extra shift or robbing a liquor store. (audience laughs) And you know, this is on abortions or crystal meth, and they come out, they to come out and see you guys. (audience cheer and applaud) - As you can tell, I'm a but even I can't act like I (audience laughs) You know, whenever I my first order of business is to choose whom I will be taking home (audience laughs) Whitney Cummings, how I But alas, I'm just an old (audience laughs) And I suspect you might be too. (audience laughs) - Kevin, you are everywhere. You know, Kevin's actually of Game of Thrones. He's playing Peter Dinklage's shadow. (audience laughs and cheers) Kevin does all of his own stunts. He climbs into his own chair, he climbs out of his own bathtub, he goes up on his wife. (audience laughs) Kevin has the Napoleon complex. Kevin, Napoleon was the leader of France. Ludacris, France is in Europe. (audience laughs) Justin, Europe's a continent. Shaq, a continent is not a free breakfast. (audience laughs and cheers) - What an honor to be The last time I hung out with Mike, we locked ourselves in a bathroom and ripped through five grams of cocaine. (audience cheer) But Mike's really changed his ways though. See, here he is taking and it hasn't been made out to Don King. (audience groan) - That is a good one, that is a good one. - My hero, Charlie sheen. (audience cheer and applaud) Dude, your nose is like my ass. There's nothing you won't shove up there. (audience laughs) Right now, I'm gonna do something I am going to attempt to get a black eye from the former heavyweight (audience cheer and applaud) Mike, bro, I am ready. Let me get that fist. - Man, I don't wanna do this shit, man. (audience cheer) We're not gonna call the (audience laughs) - All right. (audience shouting) All right. One, two, three. Ah, I think that will do it. Thank you, everybody. - And folks, in case you it's also called Get Her Done. 'cause after three pages, (audience laughs) It's an easy read. Mostly just pictures of (audience laughs) Oh, come on, we all know Larry's a freak. In fact, he's fucked so many farm animals, down south, they call him (audience laughs) Larry, remember neigh means neigh. (audience laughs) - Ann Coulter is one hateful, hatchet-faced bitches alive. (audience cheer) But it's not too late to change, Ann. You could kill yourself. (audience laughs) - When Joan was born, the doctors took a look at her and said, holy shit, we're gonna (audience laughs) Then they got on the Mayflower (audience laugh and applaud) Our Joan started out in Brooklyn You know, my Joanie, Jewish and marry doctors, not support them. Joan is not an Orthodox Jew, but men still (bleep) her through a sheet, so they don't have to look at that face. (audience laughs) - If you can take a joke, then so can the beliebers because face it Biebs, you've become a cocky little shit. (audience laughs) You are the king Joffrey of pop. (audience cheer and applaud) What's your rap name? Feminem? (audience laughs) Selena Gomez wanted to be (audience laughs) Is it true you dumped her because she grew a mustache before you? (audience laughs) - Some of you hate me just because I'm me. Some of you hate me because of the things I may have said in the past. Well, hey, I'm not perfect. I'm a person trying to figure out my life, just like everyone else. All I want is for future to know that if I can find then you can too. (audience cheer and applaud) If you have a problem with (audience cheer and applaud) If you can find it! (audience laughs) - Dennis Rodman, where do I begin? If you had told me back in the would be negotiating a nuclear I would have said, Dennis (audience laughs) - I know it's tough having little kids and being out on the road all the time. In fact, I asked Larry's how do you and Larry do it? She said, I just close my eyes and pretend it isn't happening. (audience laughs) She said, conceiving those 30 seconds of her life. (audience laughs) - I respect Charlie Sheen, I do. I say yes, 'cause I respect, Like not... (audience laughs) It's all been very Christian Slater-ish. Like, just like... (audience laughs) He sucks, but he's good. But he sucks at the same time. (audience laughs) I think that his stand that I think this is a (bleep) up He still survived and he proved the Sheen down, you know? They can keep Estevez (audience laughs) And he's the good one, that (bleep) do everything right, and that (bleep) career (audience laughs) (bleep) Tiger blood, he's to make money. (audience laughs) - Caitlyn Jenner, I just want to thank you for all you've done and the size 16 stiletto industry. (audience laughs) You are such an incredible athlete. People forget just how fast you once ran from your first family to (audience laughs) - I like that one! - You're a Republican. I don't know why, you've over a woman's body. (audience laughs) What does that party have Be your son? (audience groans) Caitlyn, I know you've as a woman for a few years, but I just want you to know you've always been a and... (audience laughs) I spell it with a K though for you. You're great, thank you. - I must be the only black man in America who's never been inside (audience laughs) I tried to get in one night, but the fire marshal was in (audience laughs) - Look at this beautiful crowd. Tonight, we honor the reason (audience laughs) Bruce is a real man's man. He told me numerous times And it's been great getting to know you and your lovely family. And I see, I met Rumor your daughter. Hi, Rumor. I guess that's the name your mom gives you when she's not a hundred (audience laughs) Get a shot of that whole table. It's the beautiful circle of life, Bruce. Your family looks like all the villains you killed off in the Die Hard movies. (audience laughs) What a legend. - Carrot Top. I used to think they called you Carrot Top because of your red hair. Now I know it's because buried up to your forehead in dirt. (audience laugh and cheer) - No, no! - Jeff Ross. You're a failure and Looking at you, it reminds (audience laughs) - It's bad mojo at these roasts, if you don't make fun haunted vagina. (audience laughs) I'm told that she's had so many black men going off up inside her, up to your ear, you're gonna (&quot;Sweet Georgia Brown&quot; There it is again. (audience laughs) Is anyone else hearing that? (audience laughs) Lisa, could you please (audience laughs) Be a lot safer in here. (audience cheer and applaud) - Cold out there tonight. (audience laughs) What, you don't like it? Down girl, boy, whatever. (audience laughs) You want to pet it? It's a hundred percent puppy. For PETA, right? People who eat and torture animals right? No? It's not real, it's not real. We shaved Bea Arthur's back. (audience laughs) I love you, babe, I love you, I love you. You look great, babe. I wouldn't fuck Bea Arthur's (audience groan and laugh) - I must say, you know, I'm rather intrigued (bleep) face, you know. Not only when I'm next is as grotesque as yours, they throw in the (bleep) towel, man. You're a mess, man. (audience laughs) During your performance, I wish I'd bit my own ears off, you know? (audience cheer) You suck man, you suck! (audience cheer and applaud) All right, all right. - Robin Quivers is here. (audience groan) Robin doesn't only sleep with white men, Robin's (bleep) so many white guys, Abercrombie and Fitch took (audience laughs) Robin's vagina is like the it's never been seen by a black guy. (audience laugh and applaud) - That's great. - Robin Quivers has slept her hymen hasn't even broken yet. (audience laughs) And now for the amazing Joan Rivers, yes, come on. (audience cheer and applaud) Joan, I loved you in The Wrestler. (audience laughs) - Justin Beiber, everybody. (audience cheer) Seems like only yesterday you Time flies when you're a piece of shit. (audience laughs) Justin, Selena Gomez had to (bleep) you. She is literally the least lucky Selena in all of entertainment history. (audience laughs) - John was, John was married Rebecca Romijn O'Connell. (audience laughs) Jesus. John, you... John, you lost your wife to (audience laughs) Holy shit. Look at you, you greasy Greek bastard. I look at you and I wonder how can there be an energy crisis? We shouldn't be drilling in Alaska, we should be ringing out (audience laughs) - Seth Rogen. You're welcome, you hairy canuck. (audience laughs) I, Hollywood made the world accept you. I put you on a movie poster (audience laughs) And then I put Barbara and the world said, no. (audience laughs) Jeff Ross, hi, I'm Hollywood. We haven't met before. (audience laughs) - Nice to meet you, nice to meet you. - Now I come to you, James Franco. You're welcome. No one could argue with From jerking off next to a boulder, to sucking a gun like a dick, you are truly the Jimmy Stewart of today. (audience laughs) I know it hasn't always You overcame a crippling known as dumb face. (audience laughs) The Oscars, the Oscars. Look, I don't even watch but everyone was calling me. The kid is making a mockery of your night. But you did the impossible. You made me like Anne Hathaway. (audience laughs) I made sure she won every that Les Mis theater camp bullshit, because of what you put (audience laughs) - Of course, here's my a man who bathes in the (audience laughs) What a life, what a life this guy had. He was mayor of what, - Yep. - Then he got busted with a prostitute. I mean, really? Who the hell pays a hooker (audience laughs) That's like, that's like, that's like paying a hooker (audience laughs) - Lisa Lampanelli, what can you say about the queen of mean. I just want to explain to you Lisa, that the only reason that is so they can feel like and got away with it. (audience laughs) - Caroline Ray from Sabrina is (audience cheer and applaud) But Caroline, if you're here, that means Salem the cat (audience laughs) Sorry, Mr. Di Nero, we know how much you (audience laughs) - And now onto Larry, the Cable Guy. This, this is exciting, I got to tell you. I've never roasted a Maybe next year we can roast (audience laughs) Larry's whole act is a sham, like the Bible or the Holocaust. (audience groan) Some people say Larry's only successful 'cause he's pandering to the and blatantly and non people's racist and homophobic tendencies. Don't listen to these people, Larry. They're just bitter and jealous and right. (audience laughs) You inbred hillbilly. How the fuck are you so popular? (audience laughs) Jesus fucking Christ. This one finally broke my back. Your fans can't even afford cable. They're not coming 'cause They're just, they've You could have come up your fans have never seen or Larry, the Librarian or (audience laughs) Thanks for letting me roast you, Larry, you make more money in a week and that feels good, I got to tell you. You say you've never done drugs, but watching your success So thanks for ripping my - Ladies and gentlemen, Demi Moore. (audience cheer and applaud) (upbeat music) - Surprise! Thank you. Are you surprised? Are you surprised, Bruce Willis? - Yes. I mean, even though I went I knew he'd forget. (audience laughs) So, for those of you who (audience cheer) I was married to Bruce Willis for the first three Die Hard movies, which makes sense because (audience laughs) After all these years, I You look good. I mean, you still look the But you know, when I look that we've had together, we but I have to say those were some of the best times of my life. I just look at our marriage You were dead the whole time. (audience laughs) - Speaking of reading, I Almost interesting. Actually, I'm lying. You really think the first is gonna be by the guy who played Dickie Roberts: Former Child Star? (audience laughs) I don't think so. - What the (bleep). (audience laughs) - Jeff Ross, I love It makes it so much easier for women to describe you to the cops. (audience laughs) Now, all they have to say is, he looked like fat Pit Bull. (audience laughs) I just met this guy, Pete Davidson, backstage before the show, a great guy. He asked to take a picture with me and I didn't even realize I told him, don't give up kid, whatever disease you (audience laughs) - Yes! That's a Superbowl champ! That's a Superbowl champ! - Jewel is here. Or as I call her Trailer Swift. (audience laughs) Jewel, I do not want to bad mouth you, since God already did. (audience gasp) No. I think your smile is cute. I feel like your teeth are they're all different colors and they're like doing their - Oh my God. (audience laughs) - I know I've been, I've getting arrested, smoking weed, abandoning monkeys and urinating publicly. But my biggest regret into Jeff Ross' Saturn (audience laughs) And Jeff, I feel really bad because I don't know where you're gonna sleep tonight, man. (audience laughs) Look, I'm new to comedy, but What do you get when you A bunch of has-beens calling (audience laugh and applaud) - I've known Jeff for many years. I was the one that held him in my arms the day they called him the Before he died, Christopher the Jeff Foxworthy show and (audience laugh and applaud) - Joan, you are one irritating Jew broad. The first time I heard your voice, my foreskin skin fell off. (audience laughs) What have you done to your upper lip, did you blow a beehive? (audience laughs) Holy shit, you look like Steven (audience laughs) Seriously, you're not the only one here. All these rubber face What, what, what goes into Why, did you really, really, is that good? What, how much worse than that clown mask you've (audience laughs) You used to look your age, now you don't even look your species. (audience laughs) You once said you succeeded else is thinking, and that's I never heard you say, holy shit, what the (bleep) did I do to my face? (audience laughs) I looked like a surprised catfish. (audience laughs) - So many gay jokes tonight, wow. So many gay jokes about Franco. Apparently if you're clean, well-dressed and moderately cultured, Is that why the rest of you guys are so aggressively fat and dirty? (audience laughs) You think if you read one dicks are just gonna fly into your face? (audience laugh, cheer and applaud) - Peyton Manning's here, I (audience cheer) He's the shit. Peyton, Peyton looks evolved to no longer need helmets. (audience laughs) No seriously, Peyton, I especially when I saw you hey, you guys! (audience laughs) Superbowl is also what his hair with as a child. (audience laughs) - Let's get to the real reason To me, Robert de Niro. (audience cheer and applaud) Robert, by the way, doing at a comedy roast? I mean, is this the same Robert Di Nero that did Little Fockers (audience laughs) Yeah, I guess it kind I can't wait till someone (audience laugh and applaud) Alec is a romantic. He met his first wife on a movie set and his second wife on a swing set. (audience laughs) Her name is Hilaria, and they already have four kids together. But he finally got it right. His wife is a calming presence and an amazing yoga instructor. She was able to get Alec where he has to work until he dies. (audience laugh and applaud) - Many of you might not know this, but Seth Rogan has a writing named Evan Goldberg. (audience cheer and applaud) What does this other guy look like that you're the face of the operation? (audience laughs) I assume he's like a sweaty Orthodox Jew eating a pastrami sandwich. Hey Sethy, yeah, I added And I was thinking that and then they're not friends, and then at the end of the (audience laughs) And also they should smoke (audience laughs) Ladies and gentlemen, let him hear it. (audience cheer and applaud) God. Seth Rogan is so Jewish. (audience laughs) - [Audience] How Jewish is he? - Seth Rogan is so fucking Jewish. Anyway, I'm excited to be here tonight. (audience laughs) - Rosie and I were once inseparable. We lived together, we worked together. We even got tattoos together. You remember. I got Rosie's face tattooed it is hard to get a woman when Roseanne is fucking staring at her. (audience laughs) It's true. It's even harder to masturbate. (audience laughs) You know, Rosie, it's true, she actually had &quot;Property of Tom Arnold&quot; tattooed on her hip, which made me the fourth largest property owner in California. (audience laugh and applaud) - I know. I know. (audience laughs) What the fuck am I doing here? (audience laughs) This is like that Moscow hotel room where a bunch of whores (audience laughs) I mean, this is what you Nights like these, you the people you've worked Tina Fey, Tracy Morgan, Thomas the Tank Engine, Meryl Streep. Not one. Instead we have a group, you can't even find them on Wikipedia. (audience laughs) Who are these people? I mean, who the fuck are you? (audience laughs) Ann Coulter, everybody. (audience laugh and cheer) - How about a hand for (audience cheer and applaud) Beautiful, look at her, well. 127 hours is how long she has left. (audience laughs) - Get him, Grandma, get him. Get him! - Mike Tyson. Am I saying that right? (Mike laughs) - Oh God! - Hey, hey, hey, Mike, here's something you'll never hear. Great tattoo! (audience laughs) You have a slutty lower (audience laugh and applaud) Men don't know whether to be (audience laughs) - Kathy Griffin. You know what you are, darling? You are a thief. Yes, you stole my act, you stole my gays and you stole I am not happy with this! (audience laughs) Which brings us to Gilbert Godfrey. Your set was longer than Bernie I mean (imitates Gilbert Godfrey). (audience laughs) Open your (bleep) eyes, the audience is leaving you, ass. (audience laughs) (Joan imitates Gilbert) I was gonna make an announcement tonight that I was going to retire. This was going to be it for me. I wanted to spend my golden years with my wonderful daughter, Melissa, my beloved grandson, Copper, Cooper. I was... (audience laughs) I was just gonna sit back. But after tonight's show, no, no, I cannot leave comedy in the hands of these untalented people, no. Comedy, comedy, and I comedy needs me, comedy need me! Yes, yes! (audience cheer and applaud) Down, down! Comedy needs Joan Rivers. And even more than comedy, and I say this, America needs Joan Rivers. Yes! American needs Joan, will you Thank you, America needs Joan Rivers. - Chris Redd looks like a police sketch of someone doing blackface. (audience laughs) You look like nephew Jemima. (audience laughs) - Don't talk about my auntie like that! - Why do you always look like (audience laughs) Speaking of Chris Redd, (audience cheer) I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Like Caitlyn, my transitions (audience laughs) Caitlyn completed her finally confirming that wants a white dick. (audience laugh and cheer) Look, look, for real. I know we're all here but honestly I want to take this moment to publicly thank you. As an athlete, I want to and as a human, I want to thank you for the doors you've opened. And on behalf of the entire on the billboard charts, (audience laughs) I want to thank you for their daddy issues. (audience laugh and cheer) - Justin, you know, I lost my dad on 9/11, and I always regretted Until I met your dad, Justin. (audience laughs) Now I'm glad mine's dead. (audience gasp and laugh) What's up, Ludacris? What's up, man? You might know Ludacris from your mom's That's What I Call Music CD. (audience laughs) - Let's get to the which is to give Justin Bieber some tips to use when he inevitably (audience laughs) I've been in lockup and So pay attention. The first thing you'll need is a shank. I made mine out of a pintail (audience laughs) I'll show you how later, it's so simple. I found Bubblicious works best, and it's so much fun to say. You see when I did my stretch, all the hood rats on my cell block wanted to break off a piece So I decided some bitch I walk into the chow hall, picked out the biggest From then on, prison was easier than making blueberry scones. (audience laugh and cheer) And Shaq, Shaq, I hope your mom (audience laughs) - Will and Grace was really It just... (audience laughs) Just Jack, just Jack is a, it's also what I'm gonna after sitting next to Blake You're so hot, what the fuck? (audience laugh and cheer) You're so, I'd fuck you in I, that's how, I almost want to, you know? I feel like Mimi would be proud. (audience laughs) Blake, you look like a by a printer running out of ink, that's... (audience laugh and applaud) (upbeat music)