Dubai went from a sleepy Gulf Port to a The so-called, 'City of Gold,' attracts over 17 to experience the truly over-the-top glitz We reveal the Emirate as only From where A-listers stay... We have welcomed Beyonce ... to world-class shopping and dining... Buon appettito. ... and a desert retreat It's a little bit like sleeping in an This is First Class: Dubai. For those who want a five-star stay in Dubai, there's no shortage of contenders With a price tag to match of course. The sail inspired Burj Al Arab Jumeirah is a Dubai icon and, as you'd expect, it's One night's stay will set you For an even pricier option there's the Villa costs $50 thousand a night And for ultimate indulgence head over to at the Royal Mansion starts at Let's take a tour with the hotel's This exquisite suite is one of On the Skybridge right here at Atlantis to Royal. It has four bedrooms that can extend to a total It really reveals itself to you as As you enter your guest room you'll whether it's the Hermes amenities, We also have these custom-made the combs and so forth that are very We have a custom-made ping pong table, We have also this incredible we have chess and backgammon and we that can be used for your high tea As you as you open this up, it truly kind You have your very unique silverware and so forth that that is very The service really begins before you even arrive. It begins at the airport where we tarmac or with chauffeur driven You don't actually have to traverse the public we have a dedicated elevator service. We also feature 17 restaurants and bars, of celebrity chefs and Michelin star So, there is a lot to discover and be Cementing its position as a boasts a host of shopping options For those looking to satiate their the largest mall in the world with in 1,124,000 square metres of gargantuan grandeur. For more luxury head over where a ski-resort awaits if you want And for an outside experience, City Walk where boutiques, cafes So, what do the uber-rich splash Well right in front of the tallest which offers its select clientele the chance to Most of our clients, they are We have clients worldwide, the limited car and for the The price range in our showroom is start The collectors are very smart; to keep it in his garage, because always when and rare, that's for sure the value year And then later on, it's not about And in very limited supply is this Bugatti Divo. Unveiled in 2018, there were only 40 ever made. It's current value? Around 10 million dollars, depending on demand. Or if classic is your ride of choice, then this This is the 300 XL Gullwing, Mercedes Benz. What we have here is a piece of art. The icon of Mercedes Benz. So, this car as well they have the The engine it's six cylinder. 365 horsepower. It's an injector engine. And they rebuilt all the parts in the car, even from this small screw, or the Even if you see the box of the oil here. It's all the parts that are did not change anything; The value of this car now in the moment, can know where the car, this should It's a limited production maybe and I think now this is the only Because if you want to make another one brand new So, this car is here, available with us. After a multi-million dollar eat and enjoy, and Dubai has no shortage But if you want to go high-end then there are 14 Tresind Studio is an Indian eatery the Michelin Guide as 'a masterpiece of If you're looking for dishes the judged and packed with flavour' then And Il Ristorante-Niko Romito is described My name is Pep Lozano, and I'm your general Niko Romito is a chef-, Italian that works for all Bulgari hotels around the consistency whether you are in China, you have consistency in the ingredients And overseeing the award-winning food in the The style of the cuisine, it's very We want to bring, in every single dish, We are really focused on sourcing the best they deserve to bring the best of the flavour, So, every guest can have a Simplicity is this head-chef's Well, the Michelin Guide says they are To prove the point, Giacomo cooks us an Spaghetti Pomodoro is one of have created along with in every single restaurants in all the The pasta that we have selected is the is very rustic touch a very the thinner want to make sure that it respects a lot the coated with and the bite is absolutely Talking about simplicity talking about Italian So, the spaghetti pomodoro is very We will source the best summer salad the season we have an amazing producers them for a while after that we purchase desiccation and maturations and then finally So, with the water that we will source season and we will literally squeeze them vegetations water that there is inside of And with that acidity where we cook the pasta with, then it's balanced with the While we are heating up the tomato water we want to make sure we will flavour a little and then we are going to remove it. The next step after boiling finish the cooking into the tomato water itself. So now it's about time to stir in the pasta of the pasta are going out and then it's So, we'll do that for a couple of minutes and then we'll finish it off with our We add the tomato paste which is it's going to be cooked to perfection the tomatoes' flavours of the paste The more we keep them on the fire, Now it's time to pick up some fresh basil and Very fresh at the very last minutes, So, it's time to plate it. Every long pasta dish is plated So, we make our lovely bundle and go straight selected is a Ginori red, which will match And then it's ready, Spaghetti Pomodoro. Dubai is a sensory overload. From glittering five-star mega complexes and natural sandy beaches there's but what tops the list as a must-do? Well, coming in at number one is Burj Khalifa. It's the World's tallest building, standing 828 meters high and offers Another notable mention has to be Dubai Frame. Since opening in 2018, it's and yes, there is a viewing platform for visitors. And for a more traditional offering 30 cents you can take a ride But for the ultimate sightseeing tour then Falcon Tours has a fleet of helicopters with large panoramic windows The helitours take visitors all over the Dubai lies directly within the Arabian so there's plenty of space to truly explore. There are camel rides to take and dune buggies to rent and hot air balloons But when you're ready to land, relax then you can't get more exclusive than this. What began as a single desert camp is now solace, space and stars. I'm Stephanie Reichenbach. I'm the founder of Sonara Camp and Narra Escape. I'm very happy to have you here today to We're in the middle of the desert, With hundreds of gazelles and oryx restaurant area where we welcome guests every day. I've created this luxury desert experience, in the Emirates and I thought that is incredible to come and experience the desert, but Here guests get to enjoy as much or as little as they like, from archery to falconry to camel Everything we do is ecofriendly, we use, you we also use solar panels and we really We always hear about camping, and now I wanted to create a new So again, it's similar, you know, if but you really want to have the It's a little bit like sleeping in an The most unique nest in the world. We're very fortunate to have an incredible We have people you know, travelling We've had a few celebrities come, most of them don't always want to But I can mention for example, Shakira, or I mean lots of famous people from every So that's it. From five-star retreats to shopping like a beast, this has been a first-class round-up