Last week, I turned 20. A long new decade's hear that in Korea, I already turned 20... over Introducing Korean Age, Explained. If you're watching this video, you probably You are 0 when you're born, and you age Well, this isn't exactly the case in but three different ways to keep track might ask. We'll get to that in a moment. But The first and most obvious is the one I and you age every year on your birthday. "Western Age," whichever floats your boat. This The second method is the topic of this you are 1 when you're born, and you but every new year. So basically every Jan. 1. And here's the most common "Then if you were born on Dec. 31, do you is yes because the next day happens to second day of life, you've been promoted Then what if you were born on have to wait another 365 days to turn those born on Jan. 1 and those born on In Korean, this method translates you are literally counting the number of those born in 2002 have lived through all the way to the current 2022, which is why Or you could use this much simpler formula: Current Year - Birth Year + Thanks to Korean Age, it becomes a lot if you were talking about 21-year-olds in all born in the same year of 2002. Age because your age would depend on if Here are some differences between Koreans use International Age for official official document and it asked you to write down Korean Age, on the other hand, is pretty unofficial. It's used purely for like when someone asks you how old you are. Just because we use Korean Age doesn't mean As a result, there's always a one- or two-year gap think Korean Age is always International Age plus I'm 21 in Korea this year. If my birthday hadn't making a two-year gap. But since I already down to one year. As a result, this gap always But here's some food for thought: let's say Korea laws or restrictions of some sort. For which defines "juveniles" as anyone under 19. In Korean Age can't be used here it's not official. And using International born in 2003 would still be 18 while some So what Korea did was that they and final age system, the middle ground "Year Age." Year Age is basically Korean not 1. Or for much simpler calculation, Year Age really means what age you will I'll be turning 21, so my Year Age would be 21. Korea uses Year Age for age-related ratings and age groups for COVID vaccines. But a very good example is the legal drinking "starting from the beginning of the year "19 in Year Age." This way, people can start passed your 19th birthday yet), which is a huge desperately wait for their birthdays to come. So like December, because they can get an insane someone's born on Dec. 31, they can drink alcohol Since Koreans use Korean Age very commonly, is 20. It's the same thing because In my Duolingo Korean Speedrun video (which you Year Age system because it's not insanely common In my experience, Korean Age and International So why do Koreans still use Korean Age? Why of honorifics and hierarchy that exists in Age is a very important subject in Korea. If use honorifics, or formal language, when talking different than the informal language you would those younger than you. One of these examples is "nuna" to an older girl. A girl would say "oppa" Now that you know that, here's an example: Let's say Eugene and June were both and June was born in July. Using so they're friends, meaning they're the same age. always be the same age. This means they can use But what if we used International Age here? In so they could talk informally. But then in April, June. This means that June can no longer speak This would go on for three months until June If you hadn't noticed already, this would be much to keep track of. So in order to prevent this instead, where speaking formally wouldn't matter deeply rooted in Korean society that it would But it might happen. There are news looking at getting rid of Korean news (just because of how unique a curious thing to witness. I'd imagine people That's another common thing in Korea. we just say our birthyears. I've almost never seen here that people will sometimes get confused Want to know the weird things that "The Story of How I Skipped the Age 14." Long story short, I moved around a lot between systems are different between the countries, was supposed to be 14 in Korea, I was living in Canada, I was living in Korea. So I never be a 14-year-old. So where did the extra year go? one year in Korea and one in Canada. There are months as an 11-year-old but spend a year and and these were only possible because And that's exactly why some of my while other memories aren't. For example, if you I might say 8, but when converted to With that said, I hope you enjoyed this video and Korea uses. If you want to watch more, I would or if you want to learn Korean, "How which got pretty good reception. I'll see