[Mumbling] Finally. It's been two weeks and you can now as per usual you're born blind deaf and utterly mother's paw. You do get a nice fluffy coat of rugged environment on the other side of that Don't worry she pops back regularly to check on stare at the ceiling. She returns at dusk which is your night time snuggles. You're now 5 weeks old strength to try and look at something that isn't to brave the harsh outdoors so mum again, has to classified in your own genus before further study So you've now got a lot to live up to. Oh no. be back this soon. Hopefully not a male snow bear wouldn't be much better. Luckily even at this chance here. Phew. Mum continues to leave the den she decides to bring work home with her. I guess now 3 months old and the time has come. As you is going to be cold, dangerous, struggles at every it is still the summer. Which also means there's get to see mum in action... or not. Okay must starting simple, learning how to effectively cross push. Mum teaches you how to catch some smaller are now fully weaned. Now that you're getting a advanced skills. You continue to grow in size climbs. Next you start to follow in your species Himalaya's next long jump champion. With these you to watch and learn how to hunt. On the next it feels like small steps but it's important to go isn't going to end. Well, at least mom's used to this kind of thing. one-on-one tutoring from mum, learning all the key on your own now but she's still hanging around as 20, 22 months old, and you're ready to brave the to conquer. It all comes down to this. After one [Thud] snow leopard. Time to say bye to mum and head off size weighing a whopping... oh that's not quite the other big cat, and that's what makes you all fail miserably in. Another thing you have that nearly the same length as the rest of your body. for a territory along rocky cliff edges 12,000 ft for the somehow even colder winter months ahead. Confrontation is not your strong suit so you go consider when choosing your territory are food, rounded to preserve heat and you keep them nice pattern blends in perfectly with the background in range you use your longer hind legs to launch the prey off guard. [Bahh]. Nice that was quite a only 2 ft tall. Not quite the 50ft record though. dinner to a cozier spot, you catch a breath by nasal tubes to inhale vast quantities of air warm the cold air before it reaches your lungs, you exhale. This combined with your smaller and the other big cats, is why you don't suffer from here. Now that you've caught your breath it's the most of this feast you need to stay around right down to the bone. But you quite like it here after your long day so after scent marking your it's time to find a cozy spot for the night. You for a good view of possible threats, then wrap warmth. Aww, aren't you cute. Sorry you're not apex predator... even if your large nasal cavities forehead. Over the next few days you continue you through another 10 days when you decide you're process all over again. Well looks like winter has off-white. At this time of year your main sources avoid completely freezing to death, so that's minus 40deg temperatures, but that doesn't mean slowly approach till... oops. Okay stealths out mountain hitting your top speed of 40 mph trying big cat but what you lose in speed you make up for weight so you can walk on surfaces others can't. more scarce this time of year. It's coming up to do with a fat turkey. There's not much food around mood. You head on over and start eyeing up your ow. Fine, fine you'll leave. I guess they're not you start to head back up the mountains, again some massive horns. Finally, a worthy opponent. killed it. That was quick. Well I was going to say chest muscles to absorb the impact, again catching This is good timing cause it will give you a nice order to find a partner you look for the telltale found them. After a few welcoming vocalizations the only social time of your year. They don't as a male you take off leaving behind a single again. And that's pretty much the only unique on the responsibility of your species survival a mother. This looks like a good place for a prey animals around, which are not only good for when danger around. Using some of your fur you the new arrivals. During the early days, same hunt enough food to feed the four of you. As the the world until they're able to go off on their go and enjoy one of your favorite activities, apparently. This could be truth or legend, but as you're now struggling to see and that amazing next thing you know you're waking up in the middle Now you're in some trouble. You try to move but off any predators. [Meow]. Oh is that it? Oh yeah right vocal cords, never mind. Days go past and are setting in and you're becoming delirious, you. The ghosts of the mountains warn you of the leaving you with only one option. Before you can hear the rumbling sound of footsteps. They were eyes, roll off the cliff, and and hope for thing can't be said for that guy. Although you'll aching all over. Hey I wonder if that ancient does anything. Everything still really hurts. you're back on your feet, and since the humans you decide to move to the 70% of your habitat marathon overnight looking for your next meal It's going to be another tough winter, but that's and can't roar, you've proved yourself a worthy perfectly adapted to dominate this specific [Factory Sound] Ah. [Music]