Who can break the dominance of the Tesla Model Y? Is it maybe the Xpeng G6? Similar size, also quite faster charging and Is it actually better than the Tesla Model Y? We're going to find out, here with Thomas in 4K, full screen, full length. Let's go! The Xpeng G6 has a You can see here running light This color here is So indeed, a very strong orange color, but you can also get more subtle notes if you like that. And here a quite sporty front in the lower part. Then, size-wise, indeed, very much comparable to a Tesla Model Y, However, you already get more equipment from standard. For example, these 20-inch wheels are standard. It is because customers wheels, and if there was other vehicles, they also wheels, and I don't think decision because visually but you always have to means a little bit less less range, so smaller better in that case, but in this case then they went Here also interesting how the wheel arches are contrasted, but here have this contrast in the middle, let's say. So this is a very unique take they have on this vehicle. And also unique to the rear. Where they have It also reminds a little bit of the Porsche Macan, so they are kind of similar, a little bit from the rear perspective. Oh, don't you think so as well? Also, one thing in the slim taillight integration right here. And then you have different versions available. It starts with a standard range rear-drive model. This is then at 6.6 acceleration figure, rear wheel drive with and this one here is All-wheel drive, one the rear, one in the seconds in the that is of course Two different battery sizes you get, either 66-kilowatt hours net and this is then an LFP battery or an 87.5 kWh net battery. This is an NMC battery. So it has different are fans of the LFP it's easier or more keep them at 100% So for daily usage sometimes they are actually even better. In both cases you minutes from 10 to because you have an 800-volt charging infrastructure, so far yeah, the Audi Q6 e-tron has that, the Porsche Macan, the Audi e-tron GT and the Porsche Taycan, so they kind of introduced it also then with the Hyundai cars, an the Hyundai IONIQ 5, Hyundai IONIQ 6 for example. Now Xpeng is following with this 800-volt architecture and that makes fast charging so quick actually. 215 kW peak for the for the big battery Vehicle to Load is possible, you get a heat pump as we've just heard are actually bigger Model Y. Of course, efficiency also plays a big drive this one here question is, does No, actually it does not. Oh, it features gas struts here to hold it open. Yes, but there's actually no frunk underneath. There would be, I think, maybe a small one could be fitted at some point. I don't know. Yeah, but that is one thing that this car is not featuring. However, you have to say that the rest of the feature list is actually very much complete considering that you can not pick any option for this vehicle, because it already has basically everything inside, like the Tesla approach, but here even more so because the assistance systems are not separated, they are already included. So they do supply but you can also of Yeah, like we are Then the door handles, they come out like this. We also have seen this kind of system before. And door closing sound. Is very solid and We recently discussed it with the Mercedes CLE and the BMW 4 Series Coupe, but it's very rare that a vehicle has here frameless doors and at the same time there's good door closing sound. That is astonishing. And the same also Very interesting. Let's check out So this is also a dual insulation. Hats off to that. Then inside of the doors, this is also somewhat soft touch. There is a like an 18-speaker extensive sound system here Here these levers, so four for the windows, this because this is usually you have levers and here would be the rear ones, so they pretty much in the front, you have to get used And then here, inside of the doors here, this is all hard pack though, although you have at least like this Then a very minimalistic in comparison to a Tesla, you already have real buttons, for example here a scroll wheel at the steering wheel and these controls, a Favorite button and also digital instruments, and this actually to me a very important thing. Next to here, high-grade leatherette seats, either here in black, would also be possible in bright, with a great quality. Look at that, how So really soft, perforation, so this is already However, you can also activate an active Than here. And let's say from in the Model 3 are These ones here I would say are better than the model Y, at this moment of the shooting of this video, when there is the Model Y Juniper update, which will probably get the seats of the Tesla Model 3. Yeah, then I think they will be on par again. So very comfortable and plush seating indeed. I'm really happy with that here. Easy controls. You can control and the back of the Steering wheel control is manual like this, And also on the dashboard you have this neoprene So this makes a good impression also One of my favorite feature here is, you know, I have a thing for physical controls, for example the climate unit. And here we have that big screen again, we climate unit there, but they do have another solution here. And that is indeed directly on the steering wheel. So when I use this down, this does control And when I press right and left here, this does control The only thing is cruise control mode on the driving part, to the cruise It's also very behind that, you know, so then probably always when I use the AC, I cancel Then headroom, here with 189, 6'2", plenty of panoramic roof, that when I'm in Steering wheel is also animal-free material quality indeed, so you're not missing out on anything here. As I said, a very clean cockpit: 10-inch instruments, 15-inch infotainment in a rather horizontal format. Then you have here the fabric covers for the speakers ambient lightning can already see here There is a large middle console and it now features, it's also an upgrade for the G9 for example, the bigger SUV. Recently they have Two times 50-watt chargers and So this is also improved bit by bit The G6 gets it now and they start differently Here also adaptive cup They are not that large though, and then here you for your elbow and have a lot of Underneath the middle console by the way, USB-A and USB-C charging and Lea is helping us with the 12-volt charging. Driver POV, on the right side here you control the... volume, the music. By the way the sound system is really very good. And then here when you set a speed comes alive, part you have this And you guys still know used to have this one Mercedes, then Tesla Model S and X carried it over, and now this one Here the screen. Very interesting, we start with the dark mode, but you can also go to display settings and have a day mode. Or have it in the Auto setting as of course also possible. And this yeah like we know from Tesla for example with different controls, light settings and so on. And you can also individualize this lower menu here, for example, so when you pres and hold one of these, then you can for example here set the driver's seat ventilation, click that one, okay. There we go. So there, drag and drop. That's it. And for example, then That would be probably our setup here, so that access to heating and I have a quick access to seat cooling. And yeah, you can like change it from And here in the lower part, this is the temperature control. If you don't do it at for example, or you can also do it like this. Oh, it sounds interesting. Yeah, and by the camera also has Very interesting is also the self-parking feature. So here, at the moment, the map full screen, still and turn in example, here, the available parking spots, and I can select to have, and let's say, let's take this one and Release the brake pedal to begin parking, and now starts parking in and The car does it all by auto-parking systems before it's not a new thing but like how accessible it is, and how easy you can just click that and how smoothly it works. I think the best thing here to me is that it's and easy that you can click it actually, because sometimes a lot of vehicles have systems, but I can takes so much time to that in that time I Yes, when you can park very well, you still are quicker in that case, but here is pretty comfortable that Rear seats, soft part, then some top of the speakers, the release button this is also soft fabric and then, yeah, this structure but no soft cover on the inside is actually quite all the EV platform, tunnel or something Two USB-C chargers. And then the seat as I would be driving you have some legroom left here, or some knee room left. So that's actually okay, it's relatively low this so you have actually a lot of headroom for this Also on the outside. with 189, 6'2&quot; that's astonishing. You see here this is through the glass always hotter than in any case but, they 99% of all the UV out, and I have shining and considering it's saying relatively to be some good This bench here is at the moment set all the way backward I can also pull a lever here that is to here that is this pull and on my side, and then it also goes forward upright seating position fine, this is more like sleeping, I think the probably then here like You also have the soft rear part, look at that here, like very plush, good as well, ISOFIX outsides each and the top part neoprene alike texture, so this can be also quite on, but this one is better for the breathability. This one here you it's also very soft then for your elbows and so on. And here you can fold The only thing you see in the backward position, this is also tilted. So this would be more clever if it's like this or in Then you see then this is here also rather straight. You have to go One thing is then when you flip the seat, I can So you fold the seat, or do that from the trunk, like this, and when you push it up again, then this one here is folding down, so maybe that's not like a very serious problem, but maybe it could be a little bit better stored in there that would probably be some room for optimization. Towing by the way at 1.5 tons, and the boot or the trunk is 570 liters but what does it mean? Electric hatch, here, and then you like this, left and right. And then here, the seats can be actually easily folded from here just reaching over and this one can be pulled up like this, so some sample luggage outside, and between the wheel arches it's a meter of 40 inches a little wider here underneath. There is some space also for a charging cable, for example. You can also take out that whole thing, also possible. And the normal length is a little bit less than a And the total length of that, two-thirds, Here at total length they are a little bit less than 80 or 70 inches, overall a well usable trunk. This Coupe ending here compromise, it's still quite high in this area. You can also see that varying this seat here in the inclination does a lot for the trunk volume then as well. Sport mode. Launch control. And that was already 0 to 90 kilometers an hour. With that launch control here, get even a little bit more boost. There's no preloading or something possible or so. You just floor it then Performance wise, acceleration wise, here in this performance model, already really like a sports car. Also here in this sport setting, I have a little bit more feedback from That's actually quite nice. I like that because in in Standard mode it has like hardly any And in the Sport feedback, so that I it's also possible to you can rule the also just the steering example set the the power to Comfort, a more relaxed Also to put less G-force on the have a better response and I really like that also hear individual setting for example case then you have pedal driving feeling, and then when you lift or the accelerator no recuperation and So this can also be it in the individual I think in this case what is more suitable Interesting point is here that we have that fixed it's always with this model here, it's also the same with the Tesla Model Y, and we have 20 inch wheels of course always prone to yeah maybe not so good But so far it's holding up quite well, let's see how it behaves when we go through some potholes or something like that, with here 90 kilometers an hour like 55 miles an hour when I do a lane change, it's actually quite nice. It doesn't shake up too So yeah, suspension is not set on the stiffest note, but also not I think a good balanced What I do feel here is when I do a lane change that kind of... yeah, I'm not sure if you've even seen on camera, it almost like hooked me up still with the steering wheel as if the lane keeping assist would like to interfere, then again you could also deactivate it. With the speed limit warning for example the thing is that when it hits you the first time with that it asks you to deactivate and you can just click it. Other than that, you can also, for example here, deactivate it when you just turn it down once like this. So, yeah, they programmed software to have easier Also as for the cruise control, for example, I can set it here. So here, there's the activation for that, and now I don't have the AC control here anymore, cruise control speed here with my left thumb. And let's see as assistance system a beautiful old timer here or a vintage vehicle in And then we can see, is the steering movement in any way hectic or is it smooth and so on, and so, we are here with slide left bend now it's going straight again, there are not many over corrections or something, you can see it right here. Of course, you your hands on the It's still level two, but this is also a great upgrade. For example, they have German or for the the Danish routes because and the road conditions For example, so there are no parked cars at the That's why the system here first malfunctioned with that when there were cars parked inside of the road. And this has been now completely reprogrammed. So definitely a very way from the whole assistant And you see here, relatively calm here Also, when I drove this Xpeng G9, like the bigger mentioning Xpeng, the voice assistant is also I tuned down the volume of the voice assistant as well. Otherwise, also of the vehicle, they you forgot your mobile phone, and it's, for example, But that can also be tuned down from the voice. So a year ago, when I drove the Xpeng G9, assistant systems wise, that was not suitable for European roads yet. But now, with a lot changes, and so on, So can be compared with other competitors you have This is also one of the Since the software the newest version, This has been just now, as in today of the major upgrade all of these Oh this is... the hell. There was someone I don't know if we can overtake this vintage vehicle here. So sometimes I miss a little bit of steering feeling when I'm here in the corner or in the roundabout. Here this is like feels kind of artificial, almost a little bit dead. Even if you have a little bit more resistant in the Sport mode, it's not like that you have a natural driving feeling. This is the one is not happening Other than that, as like how the vehicle drives, it's pretty smooth. Noise insulation We cannot test at Autobahn today, like a set 55 mph, wind noise or At some point repeat on really, But also driving it looks like it's The thing is that for the driving agility, driving dynamics, you don't feel when you're going straight most of the time, but when you're doing a lot of corners and so on, let's say it's not the most fun vehicle to drive. Like the widest be there to a would be maybe on the other spectrum there as for Most vehicles don't sporty for average But as I said, due to the lack of the steering feel I feel and that the suspension is more on the comfort side. Which is both perfectly fine, but the driving agility, driving fun is not on top of the game. If you compare to some of the competitors, then again, it might not be the most important thing here. More important will of course be efficiency and so on. What do we have consumption with very Of course, you know, So it's like 76 degrees Fahrenheit, something like that. So mild temperatures, AC is working a bit. And here, 90 Denmark has really So great conditions for a good efficient consumption. And we'll keep you updated later on what we And some motorway, an hour still, pretty silent here. So once again, good So I like that, actually. Remains calm also Let's do a lane change here. So suspension wise, The only thing that the lane keeping locks on really, really indicator doesn't reset itself pretty quickly. So these are two things. So you do a lane even before you finish like the lane itself, it's like taking this vehicle, you know? So because the lane locking onto that lane, And as I said, when you set the turning indicator somewhere, it could reset easier than to the non-turning indicator position. Plus the steering Yeah, probably it steering than for Here, when I'm, it's like steering through thin air, so there the sport setting does help already. Yes, that does help, but doesn't change the whole Average consumption, we have to say most ideal conditions and not too high speed: 15 kilowatt hours on 100 kilometers, that's 4.1 miles per kilowatt hour, means range for the small battery on 440 kilometers, that would be some the big battery, the right now, that would 580 kilometers or Of course very good figures here indeed, but ideal conditions, maybe at the late time we can repeat it with lower temperature and higher speed, maybe in and so on, but so far of course very promising results here. We always have to of course, where Pricing starts just German reference price, bigger battery, then right now, big battery And that is all very much comparable to a Tesla Model Y. However, here the assistance so it's not separate with the autopilot like with Tesla. So the price proposition is even a little bit better. Also considering that here you have a bigger battery, couple of kilowatt hours each and also that you have a It's way quicker than the Tesla recharging here So indeed we have to say it seems to be even a better price-performance offer. Yes, the Teslas are still super, super efficient. That's of course maybe not like a that they have a little bit less of battery capacity And here, of course, you still have stalk columns and also digital instruments, which you don't Still, of course, has been the For example, overall not only EVs and it will be really hard to crush it from that position there. But I think the Xpeng chance to be one of now for the Tesla Model Y, because the overall price-performance What do you think? Do you agree? And compare it to our recent test and