[wholesome music] [tense music] [HBOMB laughing] Don't worry. Vaccines are perfectly safe, according to me. You might notice a little prick. [laughing maniacally] Oh! I'm just vaccinating immunizing them against known only Unfortunately, at stimulating my balls, in humans they've become quite In the late '90s to pick up steam claiming and the movement has plenty flushing it including and that one, Here's 45th President Donald Trump coming out He once famously twet: I mean, of course they aren't. But if there's with documentaries and web sites with thousands and thousands by the former U.S. President, why does everyone else seem to think they're Has the mainstream medical a majority of people so they can keep making money The vaccine debate is complex and hasn't been resolved so obviously it needs me to come in the space by doing what I'm best at: [chewing loudly Oh, hi, Mum! Was I vaccinated? [Mum exhales sharply] Have you been looking into moving out lately, son? HBOMB: N-- [upbeat music] Now, the clever clogs among you an anti-vaccine movement when they were first introduced, but that movement died out of small pox. The main argument is that they might cause autism, so let's see what on paper Yes, I just ended a sentence and if that annoyed you, Your school was expensive. Part One: The Easy Version, in case you don't feel this whole fucking video. In 1998, a study came out the MMR vaccine and autism. MMR vaccinates against measles, which saves kids from having and parents from having It was published a very well-known which made it seem credible. However, the paper of being bad. The science turned out and multiple other studies of children did not show and the paper by the journal [booming] has &quot;retracted&quot; written in big red letters. My printer just does black so I've actually got an artist's So far that's some pretty on the anti-vaccine side, but later new evidence oh, that's it. This segment is over now-- Part Two: wait, that's it? No, seriously. There is nothing else There are some fringe as to what chemical in but since vaccines they're kind of putting The anti-vax movement had next and now they have even less. But hold on there, daddy-o. Sure, you can sum up the entire But really I don't think Everyone who's anti-vax has probably already heard by the easy version. I mean, if you're on you're not gonna change told you there was a paper once no matter how much they [playing slowly] But what if you did want on topics like this? The data on this issue Research shows that when someone in an idea they can become a YouTuber. Political science professor and his team spent over 1,700 parents reacted to convince them and found that no matter parents who started out didn't change their minds, trying to correct false claims actually made some parents Nyhan told &quot;The New Yorker,&quot; &quot;It's depressing. Now, as a fellow fan I'm also doing great, but in today's particular-- [flames roaring, It's extra pressing to get everyone on the same page So the purpose of this video a group that's wrong The real question is, when someone is wrong not just this-- Now, personally, If it was easy for humans then this video wouldn't need But maybe we'll find what convinced people in the first place. We should probably begin with that old 1998 study because let's be honest: how many people on either side have actually read it? People don't read They check out the blogs who they already agree with the science said. And, I mean, same. I heard all the other people say and I believed them, and the anti-vax people probably it was true, let's really start look at the original paper-- and that's the wrong page. Let's actually read and see what it has to say about its findi-- [WOMAN] Five minutes lat-- [HBOMB] What the fuck? This is why people This is the worst fucking paper [groovy music] [HBOMB slurping from a cup] [exhales] Right, let's talk about I'm calling it &quot;The Study&quot; &quot;Ileal-lymphoid-nodular non-specific colitis, and pervasive developmental which is a bit I had to do a not-insignificant to find out whether it's Don't know why I bothered. If I got it wrong it's not like you would have noticed. The paper's lead author I'm sorry. The paper's lead author Andrew Wakefield. Wakefield is seen by many of the modern since he was behind the paper Let's keep an eye on that gu-- The smoke machine occasionally for no reason and I can't The paper's supposed purpose between bowel disorders and developmental issues in particular targeting signs So, first off, Right, uh, hold on. Okay, colitis is inflammation one of the main symptoms like Crohn's disease, [DEMONSTRATION WOMAN] [HBOMB] By the way, like bowel, and intestine interchangeably Don't let it confuse you. If you're a doctor, The paper says it's not looking of inflammation. It's looking these children happened to have and seeing how they compare and maybe they're even linked According to Wakefield, he just happened to notice a lot and bowel disorders to investigate a possible link. [fog machine hisses] But what does all that have I mean, surely it must for it to have caused Well, allow me to list the paper's highly Some of the parents think they remember starting after the MMR vaccine. No, really. [READER] &quot;Findings: Onset &quot;was associated, with measles, mumps, [HBOMB] For literally decades, I've been hearing about and I've assumed that there must Like, something or discuss or debunk. Everyone lost their so surely there's something, and I finally go and read it, and it's just a bunch There's nothing there! I can't fucking believe this! [soothing jazz music] Like, seriously, the attempts at real science they remember is, like, Like, next to colonoscopies and graphs you'll suddenly [HBOMB] A note from your mother It's how you get out of P.E. I'm sorry, coach. [exhales] Maybe some home I love this poster and now all my guests I have tons of guests. I have a charisma [grunts] [quirky music] [grunting] I wonder why &quot;The Economist&quot; and not me. There. Does that look all right to you? No, Rachel, That's not Page three of the study provides a table listing each child's largely autism--and also as their exposure, in their opinion-- Of course, most of them blame Now, while a bunch of opinions as a bath made of teeth, we might as well explore how having that opinion. [bright music] It's actually really common actually, hey, Angie? [HBOMB] Could you draw me [ANGIE] Okay. [HBOMB] I will not explain why. It's actually really common that happened to us around be caused by one another. That's how we as ape people think about things godless little monkey brains. If you ate some strange and got sick that day, you're basically programmed for the sake This is the one in ten times that evolutionary psychology The rest are fake, Malcolm. But these correlations we make in our heads between events It might not have been It could have been all you import from Thailand. Maybe you can have Another big problem here to spans of time, you might not even notice nothing happens anymore. If someone coughs on you today you start to feel a bit sick, a lot of people might remember and assume that's how but illnesses can take days Maybe you don't remember two weeks ago by the guy the last crate of energy drinks. Oh, Carabao, Win football tickets? I can't wait to be in a crowd [coughing] The table claims some of the parents noticed a few weeks, days, or even hours but I do have to wonder how easy to recall something as complex of the onset of a child's A BBC documentary from back a parent and they said on camera overnight after the vaccine. [MOTHER] He had the fever, [MOTHER] He was never [HBOMB] Even the interviewer Literally overnight? The signs of autism and grow over time. When parents first take notice, there could easily be Another better documentary about actually found parents this exact mistake. [NARRATOR] Stacy and Damien that their daughter's autism After researching as a baby, had already shown symptoms [HBOMB] Parents don't the symptoms until but that doesn't mean or their child I'm bringing this up because the distinction that whenever like their child's what they are really describing they personally noticed. Here's a timeline of a child's development. Statistically, that symptoms of autism become is around 12 to 18 months. Children in the UK receive from between 12 to 15 months. Isn't it possible are blaming You can even see evidence that because some blame other totally One of them blames on an ear infection they got they first noticed the symptoms. Do ear infections No. but if it was the only happening to your child, you can see how someone might end up assuming they're related. Before this study was released, there were a few that thought vaccines or other illnesses. JABS--the Justice, Awareness and Basic Support group-- wow, they really worked hard had been around The founder of JABS-- asserts to this day that her son suddenly became ten days after and has frequently tried and MMR manufacturers It's important to recognize even if vaccines you're going to get like her who are convinced because they got one like this happened. Before there was and thousands of news pieces there really weren't of autistic children According to a pro-JABS piece the scare was happening, there were thousands of members, but before all that, there were only about 30 sets of parents at best, and speaking of groups to be statistically meaningful, another big problem-- a small problem, [laughs] Please hold your applause On its own, a study of a small sample size like 12 children can't prove the rest of a population. I've made this point sweeping conclusions However, it's important sample size criticism Studies on small groups happen for a good reason. They're often called and they're useful a bigger study should work for the real thing if there's something worth A fraction of parents of children who've had there might be a connection a better study on a bigger group if this connection We're going to come back because someone had to do one of those with that opportunity That was an awful take. In summary, It's bonkers. The study even admits it doesn't [HBOMB] The next sentence [HBOMB] The issue being that In science it's expected of your study. Papers and medical journals have high standards solid proof. Wakefield is using this By hiding behind the defense to prove anything, he can then speculate about a lot of things For example, to share similar-- bowel problems. I say appeared because, well, but Wakefield takes of similar things that could make his career, that the vaccine and it happens through [NARRATOR] &quot;We have identified &quot;in children that may be related &quot;to neuropsychiactric &quot;In most cases, onset &quot;mumps, &quot;Further investigations &quot;this syndrome to this vaccine.&quot; [HBOMB] In literally the final Wakefield invents a new disease and autism and then speculates might cause the disease This is absolutely buck wild, It's like medical fan fiction. Sure, he admitted it just may be to prove anything, but now his made-up disease in one of the most prestigious Journalists with little go on to report on this paper this new disease. [NARRATOR] Doctors believe they may have discovered the combination vaccine that can progress to autism. [HBOMB] What are you He admitted he didn't and then wildly speculated No! There is one last about this paper which most people don't seem which I find a little bit weird has actually read it. Towards the end of the paper-- Wakefield tries that kind of support so he really has to scrape [NARRATOR] &quot;Fudenberg noted that the first symptoms developed [HBOMB] Wow, that's a really isn't it? We should probably actually go read Fudenberg's paper and see what it has [quiet rumbling] Fudenberg's 1996 paper a fringe journal for quacks of business two years later. The paper is a pilot study of a substance called Dialysable on children with autism. In addition to alleging had become autistic within are you ready for this? Fudenberg claimed that could cure autism. [NARRATOR] &quot;Of the 22 &quot;10 became normal in that they and clinical characteristics [HBOMB] &quot;Became normal!&quot; Holy shit! And you wanna know You wanna know something funny? At the time that the study Fudenberg didn't have It was revoked the year before controlled substances The South Carolina Medical Board in dishonorable, unethical, He admitted he'd done it So he got caught stealing drugs, got fired, probably wasn't even allowed of a stethoscope, he cured autism, and you know he's trustworthy to stealing all What I'm trying to say here is, ex-doctor Hugh Fudenberg's paper is one of the most obviously and Wakefield had to cite it for his findings. This is the best he could get. You can see why it's a bit weird In scientific circles, everyone who read bothered to check the sources had, you know, It was so concerning that in the same issue--a response &quot;Vaccine adverse events: It points out numerous problems, some of which we've and has some words to say about vaccines like this. [NARRATOR] &quot;Vaccine-safety &quot;by Wakefield and colleagues &quot;into societal tragedies when &quot;confuse association &quot;and shun immunization. &quot;This would be tragic because conquer reason [HBOMB] This commentary would darkly apocalyptic at the time, it was a shockingly Like, they knew. So even before the paper other doctors and scientists &quot;This ain't it, chief.&quot; Is that still I've aged ten years Time is meaningless. But despite a lot and clear weaknesses, Wakefield published and then--and this is weird-- he immediately held This isn't something that anyone especially not after publishing that admits The paper was so small so insignificant that it barely In fact, it was published as an early report. The top left corner? Zoom in on it. [dramatic music] You gotta be quicker Holding a press conference you do if you want attention not if you're trying And here's where During the press conference, Wakefield pretended his study so earth-shaking that should stop using and replace it with measles, given separately. [HBOMB] This is the moment Wakefield told a room full on his study, he felt the MMR vaccine could be putting millions The mainstream media were that the paper so they ran with it [tense music] The paper was bad, but mass movements against of the release of a paper. Like we discussed, I didn't read it for, and you know who else Every journalist But when a doctor publicly says is putting millions of children rolled out nationwide. Even if his papers are load you gotta report on that. The possibility It's really hard to get across If you even glanced at a TV it was, or it was, [REPORTER] Measles of people every year, questions about the vaccine. [REPORTER] Vaccination could a combination of bowel disease [HBOMB] Hundreds of articles, and documentaries were made of this study. They rarely show or discuss the contents but the doctor behind it There's a potential link! There's a potential link, Panic! And you know what happens when every news resource is screaming about of a vaccine? You make millions to vaccinate their children. I was growing up during and the main thing I remember was big shots of pointy needles as they get given an injection &quot;Oh, these vaccines might It's almost like TV deliberately because that's how this works. If you want to know think MMR gave it's not because they came We've seen how, before all only a teeny tiny minority the connection between autism They could only find of autistic children who blamed The only thing that changed were telling everyone After years of the media have been the jab, some parents started [JOURNALIST] The symptoms when he was two, [HBOMB] His parents didn't because every news resource have something to do with and trusting that the media and knew what they They believed what they The end result of publications was a lot of concerned parents, and a whole lot of new cases [JOURNALIST] With inoculation to dangerous levels-- [JOURNALIST] In Ireland, the debate over MMR by a measles outbreak Whatever the official evidence, which rejected a link fewer parents were prepared [HBOMB] I wonder Could it be because every time there's footage with a needle in its arm? Once literally had come out saying, &quot;Look, Please stop doing this,&quot; a lot of journalists and started putting out &quot;No, I will not stop reporting Wait, the same journalist She just spent, like, six months about people criticizing her. So, what was Andrew Wakefield Well, he was getting and having clips played of these news pieces. He was like a celebrity, especially to the growing list by the media's reporting that why their children had autism. For a couple of years, Andrew Wakefield was the sort in slow motion in black Holy shi-- Wakefield used his time to spread even more doubt to repeat the recommendation separate vaccines instead. in interviews in the aftermath, and four whole times on he sent to journalists, he claims he thinks would avoid the risk of autism. [JOURNALIST] Andrew Wakefield to the chief medical officer to give worried parents of the single vaccine. [ANDREW] My recommendation should continue to be vaccinated There is sufficient anxiety that with the safety-- of the polyvalent--that is the MMR vaccination uh, that I think that it should of the single vaccines. There is sufficient anxiety that it would be sensible into separate doses. There is sufficient anxiety a choice of how they protect [HBOMB] It's really kind while the modern that all vaccines are dangerous the guy who started the fear that led to this [ANDREW] We advocate This is not anti-vaccine [HBOMB] He was really specific parents should keep vaccinating, just that they should use [ANDREW] The single vaccines uh, context to be safer. [HBOMB] Remember that disease at the end of his paper? That there might be some kind by MMR that then leads This came up in the media a lot [JOURNALIST] Could the MMR jab of bowel disease that was turning [ANDREW] Measles, mumps, may be too much of some children to handle. There is a--a bowel disease, a new syndrome associated and that that may be related [HBOMB] Eventually he even Autistic Enterocolitis. Wakefield's theory when he tries is that the almost dead in the MMR vaccine can get stuck causing all that inflammation in the study-- which leads to it like bread and milk properly, a morphine-like substance which and into the brain [ANDREW] Morphine-like that you and I produce and wheat are actually that leaky gut into [HBOMB] This theory is, uh, One of the many strange things implicates the measles part If measles, can cause a syndrome that leads how could you possibly be the separate vaccine for measles [ANDREW] The risk of this is related to rather than the single vaccines. [HBOMB] Okay, sure, but why? On what basis How could a doctor so easily [ANDREW] And it may be that reduces the risk of this [HBOMB] He just keeps saying it! [ANDREW] My opinion, again, the single vaccines, are likely in this consten-- to be safer than [JOURNALIST] That's [HBOMB] There's actually the separate vaccines so much. Uh, we'll get to that later. Here's the one example of an interview asking him [INTERVIEWER] But even supposing of the MMR vaccine had deposited in the intestinal tissue a single jab of measles [ANDREW] Theoretically, [INTERVIEWER] But you're single jabs instead of MMR. [HBOMB] Oh, only theoretically. What a great scientist. [INTERVIEWER] But if you say then how can you advocate even if there's only that it might damage, uh, [ANDREW] While that at the very least, parents deserve a choice for how against these infections, whether it be with the-- or whether it is with [HBOMB] He always finds a way in the midst of all of these which he started--parents the option Honestly, you'd think he for alternative vaccines. Autistic Enterocolitis is not-- accepted as real the field specializing But an ordinary person-- might not understand it enough to know that So of course it got reported [NARRATOR] It was a bold [HBOMB] That's an interesting This piece by that Melanie Phillips--one journalists in Britain is still continuing to spread it about being criticized She calls it When you imagine a new disease, of course it's gonna No red flags popping up around has ever functioned No? This completely unprove-- and controversial&quot; theory a &quot;Bigot of the Year&quot; for also denying climate change, describing a group as &quot;Jews for genocide,&quot; and opposing both and gay rights, which she dismissed on the traditional family It's not shocking that Phillips It's her job to be wrong The truly shocking thing the entire rest were on the same side as her, uncritically regurgitating to millions of people. This completely irresponsible vaccine hesitancy, kick started that's still here today, and resulted in the deaths from completely And that's the tea, sis. [slurps] There's real liquid in there. I will spill it if I try I'm sorry, but there's--look. See? It's not tea, though. I'm not a farmer. Perhaps the only thing than seeing the media to push pseudoscience actually addressed the topic Autism is a complex condition with many variations but the media They deliberately went looking and extreme cases and then filmed them Children who couldn't or had severe physical The intent to make as serious as possible resulted in an almost with suffering children. They went out of their way as a horrific tragedy a disease to avoid, measles is a disease. Like, it kills people. It can cause incredibly that are with people for life. We as a society are no longer of just how dangerous measles those complications as much Measles, mumps, and rubella and potentially life-threatening and it says a lot about how that it's worth risking that to some people. Hell, I was in Waitrose I never shop there so I can use their unnecessarily and I saw them selling with this on the cover. &quot;Reignite your child's brain What they mean there is, This is not how a healthy Autistic people have to navigate to accommodate them to the point they're with the idea other people think Come on. You're the up-market upper class You're supposed to be What's going on there? The only thing that needs is your fucking shops. Did we get clearance Okay, that was a joke. While the MMR scare the entire media landscape in saying wrongly that autism for a child and much worse So a lot of kids didn't Then again, Some parents just vaccinated mumps, Which, by the way, [JOURNALIST] But they don't want They'd rather pay at PS60 a shot. [HBOMB] 60 quid? By jolly, gov'na! Imagine millions an expensive alternative vaccine a study had come out saying might cause autism was cautioning against it! [JOURNALIST] He'd urged to split MMR [ANDREW] Giving the measles the risk of this particular [HBOMB] Why, whoever the alternative vaccine would wouldn't they? They'd make an absolute fortune! Here's the funny thing Part four: Andrew Wakefield who wanted your mone--oh, sorry. That puts me at risk Hold on. [keyboard clacking] Part 4: In My Opinion, Andrew Wakefield Who Wanted Your Money. So we have Wakefield's paper might cause autism in there, and you have Wakefield saying, &quot;Hey, get separate vaccines.&quot; You and I can both agree that of interest there if-- an alternative vaccine, right? We can all agree that would Here's Wakefield's patent on This little piece of shit the study was released, what's going on there, Andy? Something you want to tell us, [booming] It's time to introduce someone new to the story. Brian Deer is an award-winning with a long history of exposing specializing in and the perfect sort of this health scare. Deer was one who didn't simply accept at face value and thought into the study and what he Deer called the hospital with some basic questions, the kind that Wakefield apparently wasn't used Within three hours of doing so, Wakefield's publicist--you know, doctors hiring publicists That happens all the time-- had made a complaint about Deer Deer, of course, His eventual 2004 documentary-- &quot;MMR: What They is the better documentary and by better I mean blew of Andrew Wakefield's It was Deer who discovered Let's take a look [NARRATOR] &quot;The present &quot;to a new vaccine/immunization and/or prophylaxis against [HBOMB] Now, I'm not a big time but this sounds a little bit The patent was submitted so Wakefield had done most and then rushed to patent a competing vaccine and guess what? If you look closely you can see a familiar name Remember Hugh Fudenberg? The quack who thought he his medical license revoked? His name is also on the patent! He's credited as a co-inventor Fudenberg's company-- and legitimate-sounding Neuro Immuno Therapeutics is listed on the patent along In the documentary where of this patent, Brian Deer went to that address and discovered the company and the building had become Looking that address up now to be a hairdresser's. [BRIAN] Doesn't look like one of America's premiere [HBOMB] When he did find him, Deer asked Fudenberg about thought-he-could-cure-autism and, well, I-- [dramatic music] [HBOMB] Just this man is the co-inventor of Wakefield's You know what? Vaccines might be dangerous! And just in case it wasn't a hasty fucking scam Wacky-field who agreed with him F--Fudenberg's name The other inventor besides Andrew &quot;Jeremy&quot; is one Hugh Fundenberg. Nice one, Jeremy. By 1999, Wakefield of several medical businesses. Immunospecifics Biotechnologies, and Carmel Healthcare, LTD, named after his wife She later divorced him. He started shopping for investors based on the very right before the health scare But in addition to the vaccine, Wakefield had another product If Autistic Enterocolitis big if there, that would mean there would be in the form of testing Wakefield planned on producing meant to test A private for potential investors acquired [HBOMB] Describing the target [HBOMB] These prospectuses these businesses would be worth. [HBOMB] Adjusting for inflation, that upper estimate If you think that's bad, he estimated to the for-profit branch of the Royal Free PS72.5 million per year-- almost $200 million In an inventor school investor that Deer obtained, Wakefield teased they for the technology he intended Wakefield also became director Unigenetics, LTD., Wakefield applied for and was successfully more than $2 million today-- to begin developing the test, and this is all on top Wakefield would get the funding to manufacture Companies like Axcan Pharma to fly him out According to Brian Deer, he was also negotiating with Johnson &amp; Johnson with both Merck This guy was sure he was gonna I wonder if this might point to discredit MMR. [inhales deeply] Hmm... [screams] Watching Wakefield for getting alternative vaccines is really chilling to watch now. You have to watch him sit there for his planned future products, and no one watching knows They think he's a doctor just No wonder he wasn't He wanted you to buy his! That said, to the success The first is that Autistic is a fake disease which means it's very hard [booming] In Ireland at Unigenetics, Wakefield brought in to try to get the testing kits O'Leary claimed his test could in the bowels [JOURNALIST] He'd found of the samples he'd tested and bowel disease. [HBOMB] This is the closest of his cohorts would ever come to proving Autistic but this quickly fell apart. Every other lab that tried the same thing. The only way his equipment could get the results he is if there was contamination had been calibrated wrong. It turned out later it was both! Test tubes that didn't tested positive for measles. O'Leary had an 11.1% stake the company which would which would have made him if the test but strangely he stopped once people started scrutinizing so that's PS800,000 of tax payer money down The second problem who looked into this alternative would notice that the guy was a doctor who and thought he could cure autism So I guess what I'm saying in finding people willing Finally as Wakefield tried there was a critical shake-up was working at. While many higher-ups were fans controversial paper to the hospital and some of them with his new businesses, the school got a new head Pepys was a specialist to what Wakefield in his papers, and like most scientists about the subject, Wakefield was sent a letter the scientifically the companies were doing along conflicts of interest You know, you kinda have in proving a link bowel disorders, when you intend to make millions Even then, they volunteered but not in the way he wanted. Remember that thing I said I'm sure you do. I really respect that about you. They offered but only if he undertook a new, to actually explore the original He was offered help with a study to confirm what he had only with a study of 12. [HBOMB scoffs] &quot;Autistic Enterocolitis&quot; They don't believe him. This would be any The freedom and support a hypothesis and discover Wakefield agreed to perform but then he never actually Pepys would later go on and a fraud.&quot; Eventually in 2001, after repeatedly ignoring calls to do, Check out this article oh, I love journalism! [JOURNALIST] Last November, Andrew Wakefield left by mutual agreement. [HBOMB] Capitalizing on with the public as a man a link between vaccines [HBOMB] This was meant &quot;They let me go because but it seems like he because they could tell At this point, Wakefield's career as far was concerned was over and his businesses failed because he no longer had What pharmaceutical company is gonna give money to a doctor for refusing to prove to get funding for even exists? In 2003, Deer's investigation and beginning to uncover all He also made a really about something the original study. You know that whole Autistic Both his theories and his new businesses for the disease rested to find the measles virus of children with autism. [ANDREW] The question is measles virus present in the intestine The BBC documentary covered with Wakefield saying that proving it was there would of the virus in tissue samples. [ANDREW] The gold standard now of the virus in there. [HBOMB] The big deal here the gene of the virus In these interviews, Wakefield is trying to imply just started looking so they haven't found it yet They've only This turned out Deer discovered that Wakefield and it's not there! Dr. Nick Chadwick worked and was a specialist on methods in tissue samples. Wakefield actually helped so of course Wakefield for measles RNA in from the children in the study. These were the children must have measles somewhere was blaming their autism on it. However, he never found [HBOMB] This means before he even published be found in the guts [Brian] Dr. Wakefield's was measles virus itself for a bowel disease to some kinds of autism [NICK] That's correct. [HBOMB] The final of the 1998 study doesn't have even though he did a lot Chadwick later wrote in that he specifically asked the paper because with how Wakefield even though he'd found zero By this point he to launch a business based on this theory, so he ignored the work that disproved him he thought measles could cause that leads to autism for measles The BBC documentary is about because even four years he still hadn't found anything he was saying. I actually have to to this BBC documentary. Even though they mostly side and assume he's going there is one segment where &quot;Wait a second!&quot; [INTERVIEWER] Shouldn't you have proved it [ANDREW] As I say, in terms of definitive [INTERVIEWER] So shouldn't you [ANDREW] No. [HBOMB] Obviously after Brian Deer had even which Wakefield was continuing [BRIAN] I've been trying now We even wrote [HBOMB] Deer eventually to an autism conference After his presentation, Deer approached him [HBOMB] There's something kind how guilty Wakefield acts here. Like, he's happily casually answering questions and other reporters he recognizes Brian Deer-- the guy he's been for over a year--he turns as fast as he can. Wakefield's only defense against to discredit MMR is to run away and since Deer clearly Wakefield decided to escalate. A few months after this footage running away like a baby from basic inquiry wacky Andy filed against Channel 4, &quot;The Sunday Times&quot; who published and additionally personal web site, Can you imagine being In 2004, ten of came forward to publicly retract of the paper. Half a decade after a vast majority of the people on his paper have gone on record his conclusions are bollocks. At this point Wakefield's has fallen through the floor of all the nails that So that's the foundational study a hack fraud's bullshit paper of parents knew better so he could sell an alternative that he patented, w--which he thought he The evidence against much worse than that, That was a joke! Part Five: Brian Deer didn't stop there. Wakefield was trying to stop digging, One of the first rules is that if they try and sue you you're probably onto something. [BRIAN] I mean, he brought me of the fact that years ago [HBOMB] He discovered the paper was published, Wakefield had been hired to conduct the study. The lawyer, had realized there and millions of pounds a class action lawsuit on behalf of parents but since there the vaccine did this, he paid Wakefield to find some. Wakefield charged Barr PS150 he spent working on the study, eventually totaling In today's money that's more This was more than eight times at his job at the hospital. Six months before &quot;The Lancet&quot; Barr sent Wakefield actually, I got Shaun to say it. [HBOMB] Oh, okay. This whole thing was bullshit, And hey, remember JABS? JABS was involved and it turned out to recruit many of the parents I swear to God, this isn't one of the joke logos This is actually the header this low resolution Jackie Fletcher, was also a litigant They needed her connections who actually blamed MMR Some of the parents with the lawsuit, too. It's kind of clever, A couple of parents for their child's autism to sue its manufacturer, but there was no evidence so they told their opinions to a doctor their lawyer those opinions in a paper, you can say there's a link between vaccines even though the link is just There's probably a word Idea laundering? Not all of the parents knew to help a lawsuit, but they were all However, not many parents in 1996 blamed so they had to cast a wide net of parents they did. Child 11 wasn't even He was from California. If a contact of JABS you might suspect vaccines you and your child were to take part in this study, some of the parents still turned I cannot stress enough what a fucking shambles Most of the other doctors had no idea the guy running it of thousands of pounds According to Chadwick's Wakefield worked separately working on the study instead which would have been This afforded Wakefield about his motives. The other scientists must have largely thought they really were looking into a connection between autism and bowel disorders in children. So even the doctors were being lied to their time and effort to help a lawsuit make Once all of this came out, Wakefield was, While he'd been asked to leave he still had a license but amidst all the General Medical a fitness to practice hearing going through the records his behavior had been ethical. [JOURNALIST] The row he started Now his conduct--not his views-- [HBOMB] This hearing would go on making it the longest in General and longer than the This is Wakefield's only He made such a fucking mess, it took that long Meanwhile, remember when This would turn out to be in his life. Because Wakefield's libel case of what he did during his study, that meant that the records were evidence in the case now. I mean, how else were they The judge agreed that Deer had to the confidential un-redacted of the children from the study. By trying to sue a journalist Wakefield had accidentally to see everything. Deer recalls being sat in a room the medical records and other records while Wakefield's legal team to take them to the courthouse and stop him reading it [engine revs, Deer got home that night to a call from his lawyer saying the case-- New firmware available? Deer got home that night telling him the case was over, because of how lawsuits work Wakefield had the check for which Deer keeps on his website, Wakefield had just dropped to stop him finding things out. [BRIAN] But in the context a great deal of information by Wakefield's lawyers I had to continue. [HBOMB] Deer continued and also attended many Wakefield's conduct of the same records a lawsuit to hide, he put the pieces together what happened during the study. The result of his work is an absolutely of articles first published in [Windows update chimes] There's another why is there so much firmware? Deer figured out who some of the previously-anonymous in the study were the study said about and it turned out For example, to the father of child 11. [BRIAN] And he looked and he just looked his own child and he said, And that was, uh, of these children in the paper. [HBOMB] In a correspondence he literally wrote: [HBOMB] He told Deer Wakefield was the 13th child and wasn't included and that's why none in the study seemed According to Brian Deer, Wakefield had rewritten and lied to him and this wasn't the only parent who had their story changed You see, for the study they needed to establish with the vaccine. Since this is the age autism they needed it and if possible, I mean, otherwise it might seem which it is, the onset of autism in almost any The table suggests that eight claimed the symptoms happened but according from the Medical Council many of the parents and most of the children's their symptoms starting with some of what could have been autism Almost every child's autistic way too late to be useful or way too soon. Wakefield just lied and changed of the parents around until he needed it to say. This is the thing that makes during the scare really Like, he would constantly bring to the parents and reporting [ANDREW] We believe--we trust [HBOMB] If you think there with my shitty study, you're calling all How dare you? [ANDREW] When they say to you, &quot;I believe my child regressed do you take that seriously Damn right, you do. [HBOMB] He got all high you need to believe the parents of what the parents had said, and the media fucking ate [JOURNALIST] Andrew Wakefield to listen to parents who believe were damaged by MMR. [HBOMB] He's the only doctor that he wrote for a lawsuit Fucking hell! Remember that new syndrome Now we know why he did that. To pursue the vaccine's manufacturers of the vaccine's danger, &quot;Barr needed it to cause clinical syndrome.&quot; If all the kids just there wouldn't be a clear but if they all had he could argue they by the same thing. Wakefield invented which he repeatedly called in the media so the lawsuit Of course, all the children's would have to actually that they could reasonably The paper listed 11 having some form the illusion that they all had According to only three of them had any major The study had a pathologist of bowel diseases When she and her team in over half of the children, which would obviously have Wakefield brought in who had worked with him before When the second pathologist of colitis in his reports, Wakefield ignored both and just wrote in the paper had similar Wakefield went over the heads who didn't find any colitis that all the children had that causes autism! What the fu-- [echoing] You know how most in the study were diagnosed and how, like, that most of them had autism? Like, that's the whole thing? Well, it turns out that some as autistic in the study [DEATH STAR GUY] Standing by. [booming] [HBOMB] Child seven with autism before, during, He was referred to the study his brother--was diagnosed Wakefield reported that and started showing signs after being vaccinated! I mean, why not if you're Child 12 had also never The developmental specialist who But did not diagnose them Wakefield, who, is a gut surgeon with no psychiatric expertise decided this was enough for him and since their parents he said: And made sure to mention just so you know it started even though the parents Oh, and while he was there, he diagnosed them with chronic You can see why Wakefield as fast as he could when Deer to read these, right? This is likely why he never when he was asked to. Once this fraudulent paper all the extra attention would have made it impossible and get away with it again. To this day, no attempt to recreate Wakefield's findings The paper that started with the connection was a total fraud, crafted by a lawyer who he bought, data from millions all over the world indicates The only paper that came close is a study so full of lies scientists who worked to have their names taken off. The paper wasn't It wasn't just questionable. It wasn't bold It was a lie for money, but the worst thing about even that wasn't [haunting wind blowing] Hey, folks, with some pretty heavy stuff of child abuse, uh, As we've already explored, Wakefield was trying to discover and bowel disorders, he did everything he could For this reason, each child of invasive procedures. The children spent a full week during which they given laxatives, and then they lumbar punctures where a needle of your spine to extract fluid, MRI scans--again, electroencephalograms are run to the patient's head, and a variety of other A doctor once described as a lot even for adults never mind autistic children. Now, there's this thing called informed consent. Doctors can't just do You have to inform the patient and dangers and you with their approval. In this study, and some of them-- This meant to give informed consent Andrew Wakefield wrote to go with the procedures CIRCARE, a human rights acquired a copy of this handout, and while the form does mention Wakefield intended to do, it doesn't mention any of the risks associated I'm serious. The word &quot;risk&quot; is literally on the form. So let's talk about the risks of some of these procedures. For those of you who don't know, a colonoscopy is when is inserted through your rectum Normally, this is an important It's the most accurate test and this saves a lot of lives. Sorry, I'm gonna take a moment a public service announcement Um, get one. I'm being serious. If you're an adult, and you've never had please seriously consider I've lost an uncle to bowel cancer It's a really common cause and if they catch it early, Colonoscopies are perfectly safe and often but in children whose intestines and harder to maneuver in, there are risks The scope can puncture which causes bacteria and cause infection and other serious Risks of complications for children five years [DOCTOR] We try to come around corners. [HBOMB] And these risks As part of the attempts and follow up on the original a five-year-old autistic boy that went exceedingly wrong for his life after his bowel was perforated in 12 places during There was no medical reason this child needed He was just being used to find any proof they could that Autistic Enterocolitis The Royal Free had roughly $1 million today-- and his parents for causing that required full-time care. His parents reported that when they had not been told If this is true, what happened here They almost killed this child, they inflicted this procedure Wakefield's consent form insists are usually tolerated well and that it It gives zero mention of inserting several feet It even says, &quot;If your child &quot;or the procedure proves it will be performed The form doesn't mention of this anesthetic, either. This normal consent form makes incredibly clear of perforation and bleeding and the possible to being sedated, too. In case you're watching, Andy, this is what informed consent Wakefield needed these parents His paycheck was resting in the bowels of these children to the disease he was trying so he wrote a handout that how risky some of these and from other accounts given during the study, the children's experiences [BRIAN] &quot;Nurses were leaving &quot;what was being done &quot;Junior doctors were unhappy. &quot;It needed three people &quot;in some cases just &quot;These are difficult children &quot;I feel very sorry who I feel were being abused.&quot; [HBOMB] Children were fainting and trying to resist They had to be force-fed some of the fluids required They couldn't give one child because he from all the other procedures and he was sent home. Another child's lumbar puncture that he had to be rushed to a different hospital If you do stuff like this for no clinically that's child abuse! Wakefield treated the children as if they had genuine To that end, almost all of them were given anti-inflammatory drugs he'd made up for them. These medications often have an increased risk to children, particularly under The risks of adverse events includes life-threatening including increased bleeding, and other severe side effects. Some of these kids which would make reporting were experiencing further increasing the risk if something went wrong. Considering that barely any actually had bowel disorders, Wakefield was essentially at risk of the side effects while he looked for proof to invent to make The Medical Council that during the study, Wakefield gave to one of the children from an ethics committee. The drug was called... [tape clicks] [high pitched The paper is a pilot study of a substance called on children with autism. Did Wakefield test one of Fudenbergs on one of the children What the fuck? Thanks, Andy. I'm sure whatever was perfectly safe. I mean, if this genius [BRIAN] Where--where does that [FUDENBERG] My bone marrow. [HBOMB] To convince to agree to let him administer Wakefield offered him a job of a company making [tape clicks] My producer told me There's no way of proving behind closed doors, we don't have evidence a man a job to give It might just be a coincidence managing director of a company from selling the drug Maybe he just happened in the company the drug that was experimentally We will never know for sure how [clears throat] Let's just walk Andrew Wakefield might to a guy to let him experiment that he probably got from a guy medical supplies, and thought he could cure autism The Aristocrats! On top of all of this, the Medical Council found out of his own children's Andrew Jeremy Wakefield lined up and offered them money I--I have to try In order to find any potentially for his study for the lawsuit, he needed the blood so he could compare it but to get the blood instead for non-autistic or, like, calling for volunteers and give their blood, and without running it past he offered his children's for their blood! And no, that's not, like, have made up. Wakefield told people that story at a conference in 1999. [crowd laughing] [HBOMB] At the hearing the part about throwing up for dramatic effect. His best defense and weird behavior was that Shockingly, telling that he was a fucking liar Speaking later in an interview, Wakefield defended child blood bribes saying [ANDREW] The only problem an approval from That does not make it unethical. [HBOMB] He's trying a fucking ethics board! After reviewing all the longest inquiry in General concluded that Andrew Wakefield as a doctor, acted against the interests of his patients, you know, Sorry, that one was me. And he was struck off making him no longer able and officially not a doctor, so whenever someone calls him they're making a mistake. Look, I don't wanna single but you--you--don't put &quot;doctor&quot; He's not a doctor now! Even in the documentary he can't put doctor in front He has to put MB, BS. Well, we know he's at least if you know what I'm saying. To quote the Council's charges, he showed &quot;callous disregard the children might suffer.&quot; That same year, &quot;The Lancet&quot; finally formally According to &quot;The Lancet's&quot; Well done, Richard. Here's a round of applause [hand slaps] Better too late than never, That's not really an expression, The conclusion of the inquiry by Wakefield's [CHANTING] We're with Wakefield. [HBOMB] While to interview one one of his supporters attempts and make sure while another off-screen it is they who The irony is, apparently, Wakefield appeared before to say this [ANDREW] And I invite anyone of these proceedings and come [HBOMB] I think we just did, Wakefield did lose a lot when the extent of his abuse but he still had often the parents who'd followed him to accept what he did. To Wakefield, are the perfect market. I suspect the main reason in the last few days was to advertise the book on national TV. The book alleges that are just trying to crush him He titled the book after one of the Council's It's trying to be like he's accusing of callously disregarding but I don't think he considered of quoting a doctor pointing out on the cover of a book with It's a real &quot;If I Did It&quot; Also in the dedication, he thanks who's with him here on She's not his wife anymore, I guess she suffered enough. And like separate vaccines Wakefield made sure in every interview he got. [GUPTA] These numbers, to sort of make a case. [ANDREW] Dr. Gupta, please, go and read my book. Many people don't. [HBOMB] It's very funny watching him try to sell his merchandise now that everyone knows [ANDREW] If you read my book, you will be able and has the BMJ read my book? Have the doctors at all the records read my book? No, because the truth is in [ANDERSON] Well sir, which is incredibly extensive. Sir, I'm not here I'm here to have [ANDREW] If you read the record in the book, [ANDERSON] But sir, then your book is also a lie. [HBOMB] Wakefield's defense against Brian Deer's now that suing him to shut him is to say Deer is a hit man paid to ruin his career. [ANDREW] He is a hit man. He's been brought in they are very, very concerned to vaccines that are occurring [ANDERSON] Wait a minute, sir. You say he's a hit man and he's been brought in Who is they? This is who's won many awards. [ANDREW] Yeah, he's-- And he's, you know-- Who is paying this man? [HBOMB] Who is behind Follow the money! Also, buy my book, please. [ANDERSON] Wakefield went on that you're being paid of British Pharmaceutical Are you? No, I'm not. [HBOMB] In 2011, &quot;New York Times Magazine&quot; Susan Dominus caught up Though Wakefield presents as someone whose career for going against the dogma Dominus is careful to point out signing copies of his book of loyal followers, one of whom is a tearful mother who blames herself for not At the time the article Wakefield lived in a reclusive in Austin, Texas, surrounded by many acres [HBOMB] The book made him as have his many paid at anti-vaccine conferences as the celebrity who got There's the hundreds of pounds he got paid and the multiple documentaries can't have been too shabby It's genuinely shocking he's just grifting for as much money as he can. His 2016 film, is available at a discount if you buy it in a pack of ten. &quot;Give a copy to your educators, Wakefield wants his followers to do advertising for him. When I look back at footage of Wakefield's hearing, I'm inevitably looking back when I saw the same footage live [TV hisses] I saw these people but in a way they For a decade now--no, I've been thinking about &quot;Don't stifle I remember I first noticed her &quot;Wait, is she wearing Surely the most for these people here must be the man they're here to defend For someone who'd sided accepting that he had lied of the guilt for helping One of the worst things is he's made Maybe Wakefield actually cares Maybe not. their money spends just I wonder how many bought his books I wonder if any of them stop made him rich. Some of these people parents of children some of which require who fell for Wakefield because an explanation for why It brings me no joy to tell you [CHANTING] We're with Wakefield. We're with Wakefield. [audio stuttering] [HBOMB] At the end of all this, I ask the eternal question asked of every major fraudster How could someone do all this? Cause all this fear and doubt tangible harm against Why would someone do that? Uh, money. [dramatic classical music] [guitar music strumming] There's probably a lot for anti-vaccine beliefs getting The anxieties people have right Wakefield's legacy is built into of modern vaccine hesitancy. Or the RNA, Nice one, Kat. Whenever you try to trace about vaccines far enough, it almost always leads back that started in 1998 Take for example Bill Maher. Maher is a proponent between vaccines and autism has anti-vaccine activists Granted, he also has people on so that's kind of His general stance is that but he doesn't really go he's got a better idea. [BILL] Uh, I am not I understand that germs I may have been because I discovered that I could stave them off [HBOMB] If your child dies it's because he didn't eat Bubonic plague? Skip a trip to McDonald's, Throughout the years, Bill has repeated over his distrust of vaccines they might pose. I've tried to find an example or giving some kind of data, it's always this general sense might be wrong. [BILL] There's all these parents &quot;I had a normal child, this story keeps coming over [HBOMB] Lots of parents are and that's basically evidence. And of course there's &quot;Lots of people feel like me.&quot; [BILL] I was attacked for saying and I don't believe in it, and lots of people feel I've heard a lot of stuff more important than facts, so this is basically science, [ALEC] Bill, you having us on and rehashing all these problems on your last show, it's like going on a date [cheers and applause] [HBOMB] If an intellectual titan might be dangerous, he must believe it I did a lot of digging on this he made a concrete In 2005 he was interviewed This isn't footage I couldn't find footage but there is a transcript During this interview which King had been taking Maher tells him the best defense is to have a strong I guess that's where and says that the flu shot for your immune system. He cites a strong distrust of what he calls which is a bit A lot of non-western countries and other modern medicine, Whatever, he doesn't care. The conversation then turns which was a real concern Bill states that he's and gives a fascinatingly Which was a very clever insight like that really did happen. Uh, that's why people Bill is such a good The fact that vaccines actually from spreading and therefor in the first place Well, it was, but he got vaccinated so clearly he sees This is attached that he got the virus to be canceled. Apparently he's asymptomatic so I guess vaccines Considering how at-risk for this virus, I'm really glad for his sake, but they should probably I mean, we don't want a national treasure. The reality is a lot about &quot;western medicine&quot; the second it has to interact really do die of diseases. For example, Larry King passed away this year Anyway, Maher tells King that a trick to get money. [HBOMB] If bird flu you can guarantee Maher would for the vaccine. Anyway, the discussion goes downhill even further for Maher when King points out that vaccines are great was virtually eradicated Bill gives this-- beautiful reply. [HBOMB] I think Bill really does a lot of people's belief Maher thinks it's smart about vaccines right up until for himself, but his explanations and unscientific. The best he can say is that prove he's right. Maybe, but he's not read them. This isn't skepticism. This is ignorance trying To bring it all full-circle, it seems like Bill's beliefs are really based on that that started in the late '90s. After all, the only factoid to remember is that lots that one time, That's some opinions I'd joke that it's a pity for confirmation bias, but he wouldn't have got it, There is, however, one time he really does attempt He tells Larry that if you get than five years in a row, it tenfold increases Hmm, that's a really Maybe by checking this claim out he's getting his beliefs from. I looked and there on the impact of vaccination Um, the risk of Alzheimer's Okay, so this clearly isn't I did some more digging, though, and I found that in 1997 in one guy's presentation had found that this happens. There's no study cited here, but that's at least a source Let's check the doctor's papers for ourse--wait a second. I blurred the scientist's Let me fix that. Dr. Hugh Fudenberg? [Disturbed's No matter how you look at it, a vast, vast majority and pseudoscience can be traced According to a survey of US health care professionals 77% of parents refusing still cite a fear When people refuse medicine they largely point of the scare Wakefield started So, yeah, it's pretty important their medical licenses and despite being Wakefield is still embraced Wakefield was a guest of honor the week-long cruise of conspiracy theorists, where believers to share their theories the earth being flat, and horses being real. The kind of funny thing seems pretty embarrassed A skeptic who went on the cruise with the implication of being absolutely loves Luckily for Wakefield, and all he has to do to get it from science and deeper He's had to pivot to saying because his new aren't very receptive &quot;I'm not anti-vaccine. &quot;Just one vaccine is dangerous, and I recommend mine instead.&quot; I don't think these people of that story. And of course in the middle that is currently happening, Wakefield emerged to remind everyone that a virus over three million people is better than being [HBOMB] Presumably of COVID-19. I don't think that [HBOMB] The fact the movement almost completely on his lies and in fact it's useful because despite the truth can be Once Wakefield got chased out his medical license taken away, vaccination rates I love this because you can of Brian Deer's reporting Like, the scare starts and worse and worse, and then Brian Deer's reporting and bam, Like, the truth does make And then was taken away, we went right back up to pre-scare levels. Of course, getting chased out he started peddling his lies So, sorry about that. But it does seem pretty clear that the truth helps people make up their minds Fascinatingly, a lot of Britons and the revelation that it and learned a lesson about According to polls to take the COVID-19 vaccine, other countries start perhaps dimly remembering some people saying vaccines Then acceptance grows increasingly clear Wait, where's the UK? Well, boys, We've been through this before, That's my British accent? It seems like our past vaccine scares has inoculated us Kat wrote that line. I didn't find to de-converting people and changing their minds What we've really discovered the whole story out like this, people can do a good job The actual scientific community to be receptive to potential When even the potential maybe of one of the vaccines having the FDA and the CDC briefly for a while until later and were sure it was fine. Vaccine safety is taken by medical scientists Actually, here's a fun example the community is about vaccines. Wakefield's alternative vaccine it would never have made it out The medical work behind it I mean, is spelled wrong on page one. The science on is roughly what you'd expect I think I might actually make just covering this vaccine Really, Andrew Wakefield as a scam artist. He wasn't very good when he was a doctor. All the Coronavirus vaccines have passed tests and checks that his alternative measles Wakefield can pretend he's not and appear at that recommend you don't get it and instead eliminate toxins and cooking hacks. But I certainly hope that he just gets the vaccine the next cruise is gonna have There is another way the truth living proof. If someone thinks might be dangerous, one of the best ways to be people around them and showing them how it's fine. In early polls before a lot of people in the USA to hold off until they were sure which is a pretty risky decision of the virus versus any possible Like, a third of people even if it's minor are left Like, long-distance runners without getting out of breath. People have lost eyesight, and of course a lot of people but over time, as more and more people did get that by itself changed The truth is, it was easy in 2020 to have about a theoretical vaccine but now when half the people and they're obviously fine, it's a whole lot harder Over time the people waiting they've seen enough and they want what those guys So this is my call to action You should get a COVID vaccine You know, get one while you're The vaccine makes life safer and reduces the possibility to someone more vulnerable. So you won't have that I know having a conscience but still, And on top of that, if there are people in your life who need convincing you could be It's amazing how compelling get vaccinated can be. There is sadly one concerning There are some people to vaccination and have largely Maybe some of them will budge get vaccinated a group who are so distrustful of everything we've discussed that they can't have even by the hundreds of millions safely vaccinated people People can invest a lot of ego in not accepting evidence about the world, and it really doesn't help that there are hundreds exactly like Andrew Wakefield to tell them everything is already true and they just or DVDs or cooking hacks and enable people that they don't need For a small fee, Ah, come on, though. Comparing Wakefield that's a bit much. There's no way Wakefield [laughs] Have you learned nothing? [ALEX] Good to have you here [ANDREW] It's great to be here, Thank you very much. [HBOMB] Changing really should be their job and it's nobody else's fault but I think the future resides in finding of communicating the truth to hearing it. I hope in some way this video In the meantime, while we figure out how who seem committed at least the vaccine intended who's sure they want it. Specifically, me. Please send me their vaccine. I was glad they were testing it but it's been months now, I wanna go outside! Be able to go outside! I want to pretend I shop I wanna use I wanna taunt with how useless she is and threaten to turn back into a research foundation! Give me the vaccine, doctor! Hell, give me all of them! Let me combine their power! Soon I will be unstoppable! It's easy to get depressed that you're basically locked of fucking idiots who're to say stupid shit constantly-- just committed but actually, I'm actually locked in a planet who do know better but they're just like me at them. Maybe the answer here is that we should put the depression energy into changing the minds and into doing what we can of our world around and just let them be mad to be stupid but in a world of polio because we got rid Good for them, Because maybe the hard thing by the scope of these problems can do something about it. No matter how hopeless the world always can get better, and maybe together someday we can invent a way in my mum's gara-- [lively music] Hey, thank you for watching. That was pretty good, I managed to avoid getting I'd like to thank my patrons the screen right now. You guys literally keep I'd like to thank who took a look at some and made sure that we were using when we were talking I'd also really like who's basically a superhero. He's the guy who found out most really saved the day, and just thank you so much, man. And also while we were making Brian Deer released a book about Deer's book, &quot;The Doctor Who is basically on Andrew Wakefield and all I literally cannot if the topic interests you Deer is by far the most on everything that happened. I mean, he's the guy who through actual decades I had no idea he was doing when I was writing this video, and we just barely scratched of the stuff he covers. There's a link to his site and it's not an affiliate link We're not being paid to do this. I've decided he deserves I want him to be able to chart on a graph of his sales figures. Tell him Hbomb says hi. If you wanna know more about or just check out Brian Dear's you should really go read and go to briandeer.com because and there's some So thanks to Kat for doing all and for cowriting a lot and just generally I got a lot of facts wrong. And I'd like to thank my, uh, who did great work D--don't do that. [chuckles] Oh, wow, there are more credits. Thank you so much for being I'm actually surprised we got to be honest. Like, we had to work lawyers in two different to make sure for anything we were saying because, you know, some of the characters We conferred doctors, medical researchers, animators--you know, the internal anatomy I made an award-winning spend hours of her life drawing from &quot;Phoenix Wright&quot; for a joke like, 10 seconds. Sorry about that, And my poor long-suffering had to coordinate most of this editing the actual video. And thank you to my patrons of this and giving me feedback. It turns out a bunch of people scientists so we got some All in all I'm pretty happy So, yeah, that's nice. That said I'm never putting this Forget it. Can you believe that in this video? It's amazing. He sent me just video footage as Andrew Wakefield. I didn't ask for him to do that. He just sent that to me. Like, what a cool guy. Oh!