Say what you will about Fallout 4 and the deny that the weapons were, for the most part, I say "for the most part" because there's with its existence. Can You Beat Fallout 4 With Only A Flare Gun? Speaking of flair, there's still time for Fork Barbarian plushie. It might not make whatever pain you're feeling hard times. Just imagine having the worst day of your support, and with a nasally twang it says That probably won't happen, but if you're it. I suppose we should start at the beginning. After making my character as true to life eyeballs, and a bald spot, I realized that the full lines of dialog, was already far it, and started assigning SPECIAL Points. It's been proven with the power of probable is better in the long term for maximizing Because I was only after a few perks, I spread except Charisma. Then, I had to find the truth. I had to know where the salesman goes after I'm not sure what it is, but something about at the same time. He doesn't go to the vault though, it hasn't The bombs dropped, I wrapped myself in plastic out the truth, again. Nora, your supposed wife, doesn't die. It's a trick. See, her eyes are still moving. Want more proof? The resurrect command doesn't work on her. It makes perfect sense, you can't bring I did what I always do to escape Vault 111 arrived in Sanctuary, ignored Codsworth, and I wanted to get a few levels under my belt Just needed a couple perks to make life easier. I won't waste as much of your time on this had almost 600 fully erect pieces of wood arguably the most organized they'd ever Satisfied with my work, I left the settlement Why? Because that's where the real game lives. See, like most unique gimmick weapons that Flare Gun is a pain to obtain. To get it, you've gotta complete The First Calls. Ya know, that quest that involves killing As luck would have it, it's not at all easy yet because anything but a Flare Gun is not The Raiders outside can be cleared out by there. But the ones inside, well, let's just say what to do about it, you almost got drunk 2. It would've happened when I was in North down there, their air conditioners know to My first idea was to use the power armor to are hold up in. I thought that maybe because you're not are gone, getting in their early would trigger It didn't. All that happened was I got stuck in the door Momentarily content with my own failure, I I had me a plan. I bought my first flares from Cricket outside of the garbage I'd collected. Piper helped me get inside the city, I got inside, did Piper's interview, and had me There's a trick to making things dead without All you've got to do is get a companion be ended and in the midst of their existence back to wherever they came from. You dismiss them in combat so they aren't they kill won't go on your permanent record. That's the idea, anyway. As with all things in life, it's never as it seem. The only hurdle you need to overcome is probably this, because I know my audience. The hard part is talking to someone. It turns out that getting Piper to engage to stick bullets and all sorts of things inside After that didn't work, I tried sitting Only one guy died, an idiot who forgot about I also went ahead and used the free cam again of the conflict, which was not very well. He probably could've stuck the end of his still missed his head. In another attempt with Piper, I did manage In the time it took me to lure her into the and killed 5 people. From there, out of ideas, I called it quits Back in the game, I had no new ideas. I had one, actually, it just wasn't a good This run is supposed to be about how bad the The path to getting it is part of that challenge, is found. I let Piper kill everyone. I only found one example online of someone YMFAH didn't side with the Minutemen in The one guy I found just said to do what I but that never worked for me. The building is too small to be able to get interface. So, I successfully failed on purpose. Outside, I didn't need Piper. I just had to lure out Rango and let him lay before getting Preston to kill him while I up. With life now something that doesn't exist back at the Sanctuary and part 1 is now complete. Now we move on to The First Step. This was another problem that I didn't solve I ed up. What I could've and should've done was killed, fail the quest, then keep doing that up a settlement not helping one. Didn't do that though. Instead I entered Fishing Club Electrical actually called and can't be bothered to Raider I had to kill. In that brief instance, I hoped to use the Between the turrets, cars that could explode, or so raiders in the room, I thought something That didn't happen. The cars did explode, rest in piece Mater, an explosion to bring down the all powerful I also could've done the companion thing I tried, I really did put some effort into I gave up and blew his ing head off, failing Don't let that get you down though, the Back at Sanctuary, I spoke to Preston, finally a Flare Gun for my troubles, allowing the I'm about to tell you everything great about Make sure your ears are opened and primed The one good thing is there's a way to get Every day, between 4 and 10 Flares will spawn It would be time consuming as , but you could back to sleep, though you would probably have I don't think it resupplies while you're ammo as you wanted. Or, you could just buy it. The Fallout Wiki says that flares are "occasionally all. They're not rare at all and are surprisingly With the lowest possible Charisma and no barter And because I'd been hoarding like a mother to around 1800 caps. Most of those came from the 1200 5mm rounds ground. So here's what you do. Buy your ammo at Diamond City, between Arturo flares. Wait for a few hours for the Mr Handy to come to Sanctuary where more flares have spawned, to do it again. It's not as fun as the merchant exploit all, but if you're only buying Flares, it to 850 flares. And with all the ammo in the world, the real Now the Flare Gun is just the worst. Last week I said the Chinese Pistol was the Here's why. For one thing, unlike almost every firearm has an extreme arc to its trajectory and it's Hitting a moving target is generally not going Then there's the reload time, it's a lengthy There's also this fun thing that happens reload or sometimes if you're swapping between let you reload at all for a few seconds. Oh and the damage? Traumatizing. For reference, a basic Pipe Pistol with no The Flare Gun does 10. But you know what? It gets worse. See we're going downhill and have already it's over but we haven't even hit the And we're not landing on the ground, we're The Flare Gun, being it's own unique layer the game. You can't take the gunslinger perk to boost You can't get sneak attack bonuses because flaming ball that showers the county in a Stealth isn't something that exists for And, lastly, the Flare Gun cannot be modified. At all. Full stop. What it is is what it is. The only perk that does apply is the Gun Basher able to take that perk? I am and I would'n't have taken it anyway. This had to be hell after cheating like I necessary. The premise of this run is that I have no By now I've since arrived in Park Street with a severe lack of friendliness in the The other thing you might notice is that the sights to look down, that would be too easy. Oh and a lot of the time you'll see miss give you a hitmarker. That hitmarker isn't real, it's a placebo. It's not actually doing damage. As for the Triggermen themselves, they can 11 flares to kill. That doesn't sound bad but remember that the Flare Gun. Now recall what's waiting for me down in At one point I got tired of murder, the psychological enough, I had to destroy that which I loved, I recycled them and create a new world of to the Museum of Freedom for my Power Armor trying to get it back from the Raiders that get some collectables off the ghouls Danse sell to buy Stimpaks. Then I met up with Danse at Arcjet and let up all the synth weaponry that dropped to Then I returned to Park Street Station. It, no joke, took me 8 minutes to clear out I didn't fail, I didn't have to reload Gun is. If you're going to try this, which you aren't I hate me, you'd be advised to make this The Flare Gun is a pain to aim while in combat, alleviate a lot of the stress that comes from The remainder of the vault was more of the I found that 3rd person mode is great in close If you're close enough, the dot that forms the flare goes so you won't have to worry Dino was one of the toughest foes I've faced kill. I let Nick do a lot of the work as we escaped hide and seek with us, he started counting, The mayor was convinced by a man with the someone's house key, and I eventually arrived Before I could enter the Fort, I had to deal These suck. Their speed and the way they go all flaccid makes them difficult to hit without VATS. Dogmeat had a photoshoot, I ignored the turrets, This wasn't any better than anything else. A headshot with a Flare did barely anything A weapon bash was more effective, but I'm away towards more death and despair. I could've faced them, but I had to save have 6 hours to spare widdeling away at abominations I hadn't lost too much blood by the time Somehow I'd forgotten that he Danny Phantom's As you can probably imagine, hitting an invisible a firefight is no small feat. So small in fact that I decided to just beat With a Flare safely stored in his temple, any easier because, ya know, Flare Gun. From there, an assortment of events took place challenge so I'll breeze through them. The Brotherhood of Steel arrived in the Commonwealth, Piper and Nick about the free head I found out Finn's eyes, killed her in Daisy's that sort of thing, met Doctor Amari, went killed while wearing his clothes, and set After speaking to him, I got the lowdown on to find one. This was as horrible as Fort Hagen and the and everything else. Despite the abundance of Flares stuffed inside to kill all the Gunners inside. Best case scenario, you're looking at 5 to fire and reload, call it 30 seconds per at least 15 Gunners inside the building, that's and don't have to take time to heal or sit It would've been a cluster . But guess what, it was all worth it. Everything in the universe had to happen exactly lead me to this exact moment at this exact Look at the ing word I got in this terminal Just look at it. The rest of this run doesn't matter, this I don't scream, but if I ever did, it would've It wasn't the right password, clicking it was still wonderful. The Courser wasn't. See how little his health went away when I It was a solid 8 minute fight that almost as I momentarily ran away. After Doctor Amari was worthless again, I Church, lit up the Railroad which made this me, got the chip analyzed, might've accidentally his head, but then I left, got the plans from why not. The Minutemen are a time sink and I don't Rode up to the Predwyn, saw what a real man Fort Strong. That means killing a Super Mutant Behemoth with the Minutemen now. You do have to do another quest before they'll Or, you can bop the old man on the nose and you to build the device and fax yourself deep Because I couldn't fill the kid's room mostly just poking around the facility to Then I did one more mission for the Minutemen Institute. Going with the Minutemen could've been useful glorified dart gun, but you need to play the If you had a bunch of settlements all over for you would be an interesting way to play If I'm calling in reinforcements, it's minutemen. Libertalia gave me a bit of trouble. The Raider with the Fat Man is behind my comprehension. With the recall code, I shut down the rogue for several weeks of unimaginable pain, and to retrieve my Power Armor and check on Elder Unfortunately, he only offers his eye candy It's alright, my mind is still too fixated symbol. Now Vault Yoshi's in your head too, and The Battle of Bunker Hill was what it always It sorta feels like a large scale conflict, are attacking each other, it's easy to just And surprisingly, the Railroad Heavies I had Accuracy is always an issue, though. My next job was a photoshoot atop CIT Ruins. I didn't get the exact shot I wanted, but This one's alright too. Wanna see something weird? Makes you uncomfortable, doesn't it. He has no eyes but he still sees you. [1:17:00] At my surprise impromptu unofficially birthday son could ask for, knowledge that his father Then came the part I'd been dreading for Getting in there wasn't the bad part. Avoiding the Brotherhood recruits as I got Retrieving the Reactor wasn't the bad part. The bad part is killing a Sentry Bot and Two For once in my life, I had a plan, and a pretty An Institute Scientist joins you on your journey, the doorway to the cleansing room with your the killing for you. In theory, that would work. If Allie Filmore is nowhere to be found, that Luckily for me, I had a failsafe idea that I attempted to use this glitch earlier, the through a wall. There's a lockdown after you snag the reactor But, if you use power armor, you can phase that you can then ride up towards freedom, of this entire playthrough. For what it's worth, I did attempt to do I did almost made me cry. The next quest was Pinned, an easy one if Brotherhood of Steel and robots and gunners you were sent to. On the off chance you were as curious as I hidden bedroom and taking his head off not with the Institute. Then there's the Railroad. They must be destroyed. Unfortunate because I'm going in alone. At first, it tricks you into thinking it's quest is not. As soon as you off Desmond, everyone loses And most of them have to die. Stimpaks help, power armor helps, hundreds too seeing as it was my main method of attack and is as worthless as ever. It was around this time I started wishing in other games, that if you hit a target with Would've made this more fun. With every last one of them with names wiped It was time to destroy the Brotherhood of The small piece of good news is that the Flare as you kill them, more and more Synths can angels back to hell. To protect the virus, I parked my Power Armor on the other. I still can't believe that I managed to flare part of the Flare Gun. It wasn't easy, but it certainly did happen. A few stragglers made their way to the top showed his face or incredible body on the all his troops, the blimp went down like the I did not beat Fallout 4 with only a Flare