So Minecraft Live just happened and we got quite a few new things. They touched on the relatively small bundles and bravery update that adds bundles and bedrock hardcore mode, more information on the upcoming Minecraft movie, the in-person game experience that actually looks kinda sick, and of course the new updates for the main game. Jeb mentioned that they'll be dropping more feature nuggets more frequently, and ambition is to continue to drop more feature nuggets. And so I decided to add those to Minecraft. Come here, boy! Feature nugget. [mumbling] Oh, feature nugget! New feature nugget just dropped! No way, that's crazy! A new feature? What could it be? Perhaps the all-new Pale Garden? That's right, I've already added the Pale Garden to Minecraft, and I'm about to show you what Minecraft Live should've added. And it's definitely not gonna be completely cursed. You're just... you're just not ready. We did start, of course, with the feature nugget, uh, but that's just a... that's just a goofy joke. It's not like it does anything, right? Oh my gosh, it's so loud! This is the source of most people's excitement. This is the Pale Gardens with the new Pale Oak wood type. And that adds a white wood variant, which actually looks incredible. Look at this stuff. This is probably not what the final version is gonna look like, because I just desaturated oak textures. But the trees look fantastic, and they actually come along with this new hanging moss. The Pale Hanging Moss spawns naturally on these trees, and it grows over time, at least in my version of it. And you can climb up them, because... because I felt like... I felt like that made sense. These trees also have a chance to spawn with these, the Creaking Heart, which adds the creaking. These, of course, are tied to... Oh, I broke it. These, of course, spawn in the creaking when they're added to... between two logs like this, and, uh, as you can see, they sure do be creaking. You can really... they're really... they're creaking, alright. That sound is... that sound is insane. I kinda say, I do love this model. I think the models look really, really good. I'm also a little bit biased, because we recreated the model for this video. It's getting dark, and as you can see, their eyes start to glow. But if I get rid of this creaking heart, that's the only way to take down a creaking. Hey, don't look at me like that. Uh, we'll talk about that in a second. Uh, the creaking has some really interesting functionality. I'm just gonna turn down my sounds real quick. I just go ahead and splash myself with night vision here, so we can see better. This right here is a creaking, and as you can see, he's not really moving much. That's because I'm not in survival mode. If I go into survival mode, um, he- he attacks us his goofy little run. I also- I couldn't figure out how they did the weeping angel logic, but that's just because I don't really know what I'm doing. So I just- I just kinda skipped that part. So instead, now, if they're too far away, they just- they just kinda creep up. They just kinda creep up a little sneakily, little sneaky guy. But the thing that I love the most about them was their goofy little run when they run after you. If you look on actual Minecraft Live's dev footage, you can see that they have this goofy little run when they're running after you. It's so goofy. It almost looks like they're doing a little dance when they're running up behind people. And I thought that was really funny, so we- we ran with that. Imagine, if you will, every time you turn away from the creaking, it just does a different little weird dance. So, uh, we- we- we have him- we have him doing some- doing some dances here. Just- just some little motions, just some little weird things that he can do as he- as he creeps up on ya. I've got it on my right-click functionality here, but, uh, just, you know, just imagine that he's doing this as he creeps up- Oh, oh yeah. Hey man, ahhhhh, ahhhhh, please. Oh, helicopter mode! This guy- this is so- he's so goofy looking. He's just a little goofy guy. I don't know, I think these animations help, right? These animations are great. They really add an extra level of- I forgot I can't kill them. I forgot I can't kill them. Where's the heart? There it is. Come here, come here. Yes, I got him. Ha ha ha ha ha. The dances add just like a little extra level of goofiness to them, and I think that's just funny. I think it's- we just need- we need more of that in Minecraft. You know, we just- we just need that in my life. Anyways, let's talk more about the creaking heart. The creaking heart has to be between two different wood blocks, right? And then that's how you get these guys to spawn. But then if you break it, it will kill the creaking, and uh- and the creaking in the real game doesn't drop anything. But in my version, it absolutely does. This is the creaky door, and you guessed it- It's creaky. I feel like the creaking didn't really drop anything, so there wasn't really much of a reason to go into the- the- the pale garden, so I- I gave it a reason. You wanted a white door, this is the trade-off. Yep, every time you open it, it just- it really creaks. It- it's really- it's really- it's- It's really creaky. I think it's a good- I think it's a- it's a good reason, right? That's a good reason to come into the creaky forest. The creaky forest. I actually think that's a better word. Instead of the pale gardens, it's the creaky forest. Welcome to the creaky forest, where everything is really weird. He- he really be creaking, though. You know, what's funny is it's actually based off of my real life door in my office. Look at that. See that door? That door is in game now. That thing creaks a little bit sometimes. It's a little bit creaky. And this is a perfect replica. Perfect in every way. Perfect just completely just so good. Just the most incredible addition to Minecraft. To be honest, though, I feel like this area- like the creaking shouldn't be the only thing out here, right? This guy- this guy kind of have some- he's gotta have some friends, right? It would make sense. It'd be so smart. It'd be great to- Oh, this is problematic that I can't hurt them. I can't do anything. Oh, there's a zombie too. This is a problem. This is a- this is the guy that's a problem. What a great way to introduce our next feature nugget. Yup, that's right. We still got feature nuggets, baby. This is the other mob that you can now find in the creaky forest. I'm gonna keep calling it that. I think that's funny. And you want to know what it's called? You want to know its name? Well, check out this clip. Oh, did anybody hear that? Hey, what? The creaking. I'd say it was more of a crunching. And I shall now name the crunching. It's called a creaking. THEY LITERALLY JUST SAID ITS NAME That's right. We added the crunching to Minecraft. This guy is basically just a giant mouth with tiny legs. Look at those teeth. Look at those crunchy teeth. The crunching also has a chance to spawn from one of these, the creaking heart. And you can see they- oh, he died. They're the same. But these ones you can actually attack. They're a little bit less overpowered and they get completely flattened when they die. I don't know. I thought it was just funny. It's just goofy. We need more weird death animations in Minecraft, right? We just need that in my life. Flattened. So now we have the creaking and we have the crunching. Both, I would say, are excellent additions to the game and totally make a lot of sense. This thing has so much attack power. It's just one bite. It just- uh-oh. Hello. Uh-uh-uh-uh. Please, uh, please, please. We can talk about this. Please, please, please. Uh, the fun fact too, you can actually ride it. Boom. I'm in creative mode now. Ha, yep, that's right. You can ride the crunching. It doesn't do much when you're in survival because you just get crunched. But it's a fun feature, right? It's fun. It's cool. It's cool. Door. Ah-ha. Hup-ah. Night vision. Now you- now you're just- now I'm invincible to your- to your powers. You just- there's- Hup-ah. Flattened. Because of villager news, uh, the crunching also chases down villagers. Oh my gosh. Yeah, the villagers just don't stand a chance. They just- they just- they just get attacked. They just- they just die. Every once in a while too, while you're wandering through the forest, there's a chance you'll find some experience points on the ground, some emeralds, and &quot;I'm villager 31, help me, I'm being attacked by a monster.&quot; But that could have been- that could have been anyone's- that could- that could have been anyone's stuff. I'm sure it's- I'm sure it's fine. Oh, look, another one. &quot;I'm villager 24, you should all subscribe to Knarfy.&quot; What wonderful final thoughts. These guys are vicious, and they're a great addition to the Pale Gardens. Definitely. They do also, uh, die because of the creaking hearts, so they- they're pretty cool. Speaking of the creaking heart though, I- I think that's a cool concept. I feel like we should get more- more hearts, right? More mob hearts. During Minecraft Live, they talked a lot about the creaking being a puppet of the creaking heart, and, uh, you know, I think that's fair, but the word &quot;puppet&quot; made me think about some things. I think- I think we need more puppets. So, uh, we- we added that. Hold on, let me get out of this- this forest every once in a while. As you wander a regular oak forest, you'll see these. More- more hearts. These are the oak hearts, and, uh, if they're placed between two oak logs, uh... It's Pinocchio, guys! Hey, man. Hey- oh. Oh. That nose! That- oh my gosh! This is Pinocchio, and, uh, Pinocchio is- is incredibly fast, and Pinocchio's also tied to the- the heart. They- Pinocchio's- Pinocchio's dead. Pinocchio is naturally a passive mob, unless you attack him, in which case, he's anything but passive. That's insane. But he also only has two HP. He's made- he's made of wood. Um, there's only so much you can do. Also, he drops this Pinocchio's nose. Yep, it's- it's a whole new meaning to &quot;got your nose!&quot; Pinocchio's nose does a thousand attack damage, but it only has three durability. So, you know, completely balanced. Definitely not- definitely not overpowered. Definitely not overpowered in any way. Um, yeah, that's cool. So they're just- they're just tied into the- they're just tied into the oak hearts. That's just what they are now. Just- Pinocchio is just the thing now. Pinocchio's here. But that's not the only puppet that we added to the game. We also added potentially the most famous puppet of all time. I'm sure you can see where this is going. Here we are, in the mangrove swamp, looking for one thing in particular. Somewhere in this forest lies the Croaking Heart. That's right, we're looking for another heart. We've got the Creaking Heart, and now we've also got the Croaking Heart. These Minecraft updates are crazy. Oh, look, a pale garden. Oh, oh, oh, oh. There it is, the Croaking Heart. Yeah, that's right. We added one of the most famous puppets of all time. Okay, everybody, let's- let's go take down Ms. Piggy. Oh, wait, no, I love Ms. Piggy. Hiya, Kermit, how is it going? Let's go take down Ms. Piggy. That's not the only thing you say. Say other- say- stop. Let's do our best here, okay? Let's do the Muppet Show. Yeah! Guys, it's Kermit the Frog. Oh, that's right. We added Kermit the Frog to Minecraft. And Kermit the Frog is one of the most hysterical creatures I've ever seen in this game. Oh, where are you going? Where are you going, buddy? Here, I'll help you out. There you go. Hey, buddy. Let's do our best here, okay? Okay. I spent far too much time making these animations just absolutely perfect. Let's do our best here, okay? These voice lines were done by none other than Wisp, who is way too good at this impression. I may or may not have stolen the voice lines from the previous video that he was in. And they just happened- Okay, everybody, let's go take down Ms. Piggy. Naturally, though, also, we had to add one of the most iconic things that Kermit does, his flailing and chaotic nature thing. Yeah, this is just a wild- This is a wild feature. That's the croaking heart. Insane. An insane feature. I also genuinely don't know where he went. So that now means that Minecraft has the creaking heart, the oak heart, and the croaking heart. That's kind of incredible. I kind of love this. Maybe Minecraft will add these all, you know? Maybe, maybe, maybe I'm in the water. Maybe these are all good, good features, right? Guys, I'm gonna be honest with you. I added one more feature to this. And it's not a feature that I'm proud of, but I'm very excited about it. You know, let me- hold on. You know how we have the pale gardens, right? We got the pale gardens. They're looking pretty under-saturated and pale and, you know. That definitely implies the existence of the oversaturated gardens, right? Yeah, definitely, for sure. Yep, that makes total sense and isn't a leap in logic in any way. So we- I keep saying we. This was all me. This is my fault. So we- we- we added the oversaturated gardens. Yep, this is- this is it. This is the- this is the oversaturated gardens. Oh my gosh, it's just- it's just painful to look at, man. It's just so painful. Yeah, the oversaturated gardens not only has the oversaturated oak set of wood. This does have planks and everything. It's just so painful to look at. Not only does it have these, but it also has oversaturated moss. And also this biome has purple grass and every structure in the game. Yep, there's a End City in this biome in the overworld. That's right. Yeah, because that- because that makes sense. The water is green, the sky is orange. There's a- there's a desert temple down there. Oh look, you can get an Elytra in the oversaturated gardens. Yeah, this- this makes total sense, right? This is- this is a feature that Minecraft should add. That's a shipwreck. Oh, yep, there's a fortress. Yeah, this- this makes total sense, right? This is- this is how the- this is how the gardens- this- this is a Minecraft feature now. This is a wild scenario. Oh, hey buddy. Let's do the Muppet Show. If you want to try this mod out for yourself, there's a link in the description of my Modrinth page. I will warn you though, it is the most specific version of Minecraft you could possibly get, and it is very broken. Do not use this on a world that you- that you actually enjoy or want to use in the future, and uh, yeah, it's- I'll just warn you right now, it's painful. I'd say I successfully ruined Minecraft Live? What do you think? Let me know in the comments, and uh- rip Kermit. Oh, uh oh, not me, not me, no please, please. Well, that went well. Oh, hey Pinocchio, how's it going? Uh oh.