The Messerschmitt or Me 262 was an iconic Jet fighter of WW2. Designed by the Germans, it was the first mass-produced and deployed Jet fighter. In this video we will talk about the Me-262A-1a "Schwalbe" variant. Translated into English "Schwalbe" means "Swallow". As production of the Me-262 was largely decentralized small details or even instrument panel layouts can differ from plane to plane. That said, we've picked the details that we think I'm David Webb and this is Blue Paw Print. The Me-262 was a low-wing twin engine monoplane. The length was 34 ft 9 inch or 10.6 meters In cross section the main part of the Me-262's fuselage looks like a slightly inflated triangle with rounded corners. This shape was deemed to be the optimal for low cost, ease of assembly, maintenance The fuselage was built out of both steel and aluminum alloys. Some lighter alloys were harder to source during the war and so steel was often used for availability and cost reasons. This would come at the price of extra weight. Some non-stressed elements of the plane and the control panel were even built from plywood. The airframe consisted of longerons and stringers The formers were made of U-shaped and J-shaped sheets of metal Such a design could be made with the use of an unskilled The nose resembled that of piston-engine aircraft of the era. It had a small window at the tip for camera lens, There were main bulkheads Another bulkhead sat between the forward fuel tank and the cockpit. One sat behind the cockpit and the rear fuel tank There was an additional smaller bulkhead The bulkhead between the gun's ammunition was understandably reinforced and fireproof. The rest of the bulkheads were aluminum tubes and linkages. The skin of the aircraft was 2 mm or 1/16 of an inch thick sheets of duralumin plating. These were overlaid and riveted to the frame. Only the section housing the gun After assembly, the fuselage surface was polished and painted. Any holes or slits were covered with filler or doped fabric and then painted reducing the drag of the plane. The wings were of a double-spar design The main spar was made of steel with an auxiliary spar Spars were connected by main ribs and auxiliary ribs. The skin consisted of 2 - 2.1 Only on the lower part of the wings, there were segments of 0.25 The wingspan was 41 feet four inches or 12.6 meters. The wings had an angle of sweep on the leading edge of -17 The transverse angle of a wing on a plane positioned relative to the horizontal axis of the aircraft. On the Me-262 this was -5 degrees, Along the entire leading edge of the wing, except for the areas occupied by the engine nacelles, were located retractable automatic three-section slotted wind slats. These slats were designed to improve the wing's performance or when maneuvering. On the trailing edge of the wing were flaps. When extended, the flaps increased the wing's surface area, generating to take off and land at those lower airspeeds. To avoid pilot error, on the Me-262 the flaps could only be deployed The flaps were two-sectional and separated by the engine nacelles. Ailerons to avoid issues The tail consisted of a vertical stabilizer to which was attached a rudder to control the yaw of the airplane. There was a horizontal stabilizer to which were attached Their construction was all metal. The tail assembly, The horizontal stabilizer had a sweep angle of 23 degrees and the vertical stabilizer had a sweep angle of 45 degrees. The landing gear was a three-point and two main wheels under the wings Usually the wheels were released The power was supplied by two Jumo 004 B-1 jet engines, each with a thrust of 8.83 kN or 1,984 lbf. The Jumo 004 and a predecessor of all modern turbine jet engines. Air was sucked into the open front section, into one of six combustion chambers where the air mixed with Some of the power produced rotated an axial compressor. The remaining gases flowed through the nozzle and created thrust. The speed of the exhaust gas could be controlled called a Zwiebel (or onion bolb) because of its shape. The engine was 12 feet 8 inches long or around 3.86 meters, It was 2 feet and weighed 1,585 or 719 kg. To fire it up it was started by two-cylinder, The fuel used for the Jumo 004 was J-2. This was a German WW2 synthetic fuel produced from brown coal. The engine was designed to run on multiple fuels The 2 engines gave the Me-262 a maximum level flight speed of 540 mph or 870 km/h. In a dive though it could potentially go much faster. However the pilots were recommended to avoid the speed over The Germans were the first pilots to encounter issues with flight During tests a prototype plane exceeded 970 km/h but had severe vibrations and temporary loss of control. There is a legend about Me-262 pilot who exceeded Mach speed and thus broke sound barrier during WW2 But the airspeed indicator reading would have been inaccurate at this speed using a Pitot tube for measurement. The rate of climb was astounding 20 m/sec or 67 ft/sec. The rate of dive, in operation was not that impressive German pilots so as not to exceed their safe speed during the attack. The fuel system consisted of two rubber self-sealing main tanks of 238 gallons each or 900 liters as well as auxiliary tanks, The main tanks could feed either the right or left engine, and this was controlled by the pilot When the remaining fuel was reduced to 250 liters or 66 gallons, a warning light was lit on the dashboard. The pilot had the job of balancing the fuel levels The maximum volume of fuel could in theory and give the plane a maximum range of 1050 km The main armament consisted of 4 MK. 108 cannons with a 30 mm or 1.2 inch caliber. Each cannon had a rate of fire of 650 rounds per minute, with a muzzle velocity of 520 m/sec or 1507 fps. The length of each gun was 3.3 feet or 1 meter and its barrel was 1.8 feet or 1/2 meter. The electric triggers were located on the pilot's control stick. The cannon reloading mechanism was electro-pneumatic. Ammunition was stored in belts in protected boxes. A 0.72 pound shell was 0.19 pounds of explosive was capable of bringing down a heavy bomber such as the B-17 Flying Fortress or B-24 Liberator in just four hits. It needed just a single "shattering" hit to bring down an allied fighter. Due to its distinctive pounding sound and high rate of fire allied aircrews called the MK. 108 the pneumatic hammer. There were large spherical supports around the barrels, The guns usually were set to converge at around In front of the guns was a gun camera. and stopped immediately upon release of the trigger. Under the wings, there were mounted wooden racks with rockets. Several unguided The most advanced of which was the R4M 4kg rocket. These missiles could be fired from distances of up to 1000 Their trajectory in the middle range was roughly similar so the same gunsight could be used Accuracy of the rockets was poor Usually an Me-262 A-1 carried 24 of these missiles in total a dozen under each wing. The rockets had electrical ignition Aside from fuel tanks and the bulkheads around them, the cockpit was protected by a frontal 3.5 and a 15 mm, 3/5 of an inch steel backplate On later planes, The cockpit had a 3-section canopy. The cabin's layout was traditional, with only the engine Trim regulators, engine throttles, hydraulic, pneumatic Switchboard, radio controls and Riedel engine starters to the turbines were controlled on the right hand side of the pilot flight indicators to the left and engine indicators to the right - A rocket launch panel was added below the main instrument panel. The gunsight used most of the time in the Me-262 short career was the standard sight of the Luftwaffe the Revi 16B. This was a reflector gunsight which projected a ring-and-crosshair It was less effective than the later but was effective enough for short To enter the cabin a pilot would climb on the left wing and lift the middle section of the canopy and climb in. The seat had no padding and so the pilot sat on his parachute. After entering, the pilot would buckle up. The pilot would activate a number of switches in order. The battery switch, then the inverter, then the generators. He would ensure that the fuel selector valve was off He would push down the starter handle He would then pull the starter handle and hold he press the tachometer button and hold it in. The engines would then rotate. When each engine reached 700-800 rpm the pilot would press the ignition button A deep throbbing noise would be heard as the unit began firing. Then the engine speed would be increased The pilot could then release the starter handle and tachometer button and open a fuel selector valve. At this time the rear fuel tank is supplying both engines. The pilot would slowly advance the throttle to 3000 rpm. At 3000 rpm the pilot released the throttle ignition button On the ground the pilot steered by using the main wheel brakes. By now the jets are running at 4000-6000 rpm. With the plane in position. the pilot would hold the aircraft with the main wheel brakes very slowly for the engine to reach around 7000 rpm. He would then switch the left engine to the front main Releasing the brakes and opening the throttles All the while, The control stick would be in a neutral position. the pilot would pull gently back on the stick. This would move the elevator at the rear into a raised position and the plane would gently become airborne. To stop the wheels rotating the pilot would apply the brakes Initially, the Me-262 would climb higher than the expected target formation altitude. Once in position, the pilot would switch on the power on top of the control stick. Then, when the enemy was in sight the pilot would quickly fly to the side and above the enemy. When ready, he would slightly bleed the speed He would aim to cut across the box formation of the bombers. Looking through the Revi 16 gunsight the pilot would see the glowing crosshair The pilot calculated range and deflection based upon experience. If taking on a B-17, the pilot would look as to where If the wings filled two full marks, When the plane was at a distance of the pilot would press the switch to launch a volley of rockets and then when the B-17s wingtips filled almost the entire circle the distance would be around 330 yards or 300 m. The pilot would press the buttons to fire short bursts from his 30 mm guns to shoot at any available target as he passed. After diving the Me-262 would try to climb back But if too many escort fighters were gunning on him, and outrun the pursuers until they lost sight of the German jet. When low on fuel or ammunition, the pilot would head for home. Inability to maneuver and relatively slow speed at take-off when they were are most vulnerable, This tactic got the nickname "Rat catching". It's estimated that around 1470 Me-262 were built in total. Due to delivery and logistics issues only around 300 Me-262s took part in action. Eventually the Me-262 proved to be a formidable interceptor. But at this time the German industry was too damaged too many planes that the Me-262 could not really make a difference. The Me-262's conceptual scheme was copied in many designs, Some design ideas from the Me-262 were used in several The turbojet engine housed in an underwing nacelle proved to be such a successful design In researching this film, we were privileged to record some video of an actual ME-262. You can find that video and help the channel by supporting us on Patreon. If you spotted any errors, please let us know in the comments. We're looking to continuously improve. Thank you.