Hey guys. I'm here at a very unique restaurant. It's a Vietnamese restaurant called Thuong An it's on North King Street, right next to the If you're familiar with Lee's Bakery, the popular same street. And it's owned by this very lovely, You can dine in here, you can do takeout. It seems here. They open super early for breakfast. You can or do a take out lunch. They open really pm. So far service is really fast. It's already served me my sides for my pho. I ordered pho - bean sprouts, some culantro or saw leaf, and what makes it unique is the lime and the fresh talking a little bit because I went to Saigon Wow. So it's super quick in here. You can eat came out already and she was super nice tea. And all the condiments are here. So of my condiments in. I'm bean sprouts, some culantro, and And there's lots of things in which is one of my favorite things to eat and a little bit of chili. Got to have that garlic sauce. A little bit of hoisin. And a little bit of sriracha. Okay if you're wondering why I'm wearing the If you're not from here, it's super strict get rid of this law soon. So hopefully Hawaii So I see some beautiful shiitake mushrooms, some interesting vegan fish balls. It looks and some things that look kind of like some mock Wow you would never think this is Tastes exactly like all the delicious spices. Let's taste some of these things. So we'll start What I like about bean curd is it has that chew that whatever it's soaking in. So it has that nice a carnivore. I am such a meat lover. But you Alright, I don't know what this is. Maybe it's any dipping sauce. Sorry it's a little loud in Wow that really tastes like a pork sausage and I've been going to Down to Earth and getting And it doesn't really taste good. You know no aftertaste. It has a good texture Trying out the tea. So you Quite nutty. Interesting tea. Like I'm not sure if has a nutty aftertaste. Delicious. Here's a Has that nice meatiness going on and I like Now this is like the mock beef. It's but you can tell it's not real beef. Let's take Now that one's kind of weird. Definitely you a squishy, spongy taste in it. Kind of rubs It tastes kind of like mushroom though, The noodles though, cooked perfectly. Exactly I like all the condiments. Everything goes well If you don't like spice, you don't even though those chili peppers were in Man, there's so many things in here. We got, a little bit more of the ham, and then we got this fried tofu here. Your but if you dip it in the sauce it tastes fabulous. Really good. So this is like a meatball I thought it was a button mushroom at Actually, tastes like a button mushroom kind of processed. Not sure if it but definitely doesn't taste like a So I'm assuming you have to dip it in the Definitely better. I think some of these in the sauce. You get that texture, but I think the best mock meat out of all of it is or luncheon meat but very delicious. It's and make this. What's technically vegetarian We'll take more of a taste of the You would never know that there's the broth tastes exactly like a great pho. So delicious. I think that's mock ham thing and all the bean curd and I found something that was mind-blowing. This is looks like it. So like let's take the taste Yeah no flavor really but exactly like the At the end you have aftertaste of sweetness and into the sauce, it takes that aftertaste away. So mouth feel of the beef tendon. So this is what some lettuce. Looks like some tofu all wrapped in nuoc cham, the fish sauce. It's got some And there's actually not tofu. It's like a that kind of bursts in your mouth is these mint but it's so good. It's bursting with flavor does have peanuts in here so if you're allergic to or not order it at all. But it's very So I'm pretty much satisfied. That was a great wonderful. Coming from a total meat-eater. So you're a meat-eater, definitely try and check this not heavy and greasy and oily like other phos or fresh, including the condiments, the basil and the Just everything's so good. I wish I could try which is their crab soup and they also have banh you can get a banh mi sandwich. As you know, is, every time I come on this side of Chinatown, Maunakea Municipal Lot. And this is a municipal going to be a dollar. Sometimes I only pay 50 It's much better than looking for metered parking. you don't have to worry about running out parking there and it's just right there in front towards the Pauahi Street side I always do the in Chinatown, depending which part of Chinatown kind of research where you're going to park, which support this little mom and pop shop. Definitely visiting Honolulu, you can definitely enjoy some this press the like button, subscribe if you're