upbeat jazz [door opens] [Spanish] PETER: Good morning, guys, Greater metro population Making it the fifth biggest in the world. Today we have the great privilege who is gonna dive us into the culture. Below the noise of the streets We're gonna learn more about this upbeat jazz PETER: The Uber driver was saying LALO: He was just saying He's just new to the business -Right. ...that he used to work in an office. -Okay. 10% of the city, as we all do here. LALO: This is Churreria El Moro. -And this is the first churreria -1935? [diners chattering] PETER: Nice way to start it, Lalo. -Nice? [Spanish] -So there we go. So nice soft dough. Little crust with sugar. I asked for sugar... Just sugar, but I think they Which do you get the cinnamon? ...but the security -It is. -I didn't see that -No, of course not. You will find here the security is harder they sell a lot of Which means it's easier PETER: So you were just saying off-camera -I did, yeah. -But it was too quiet, ...and you love being back. Yeah, yeah, I mean it's great and, like, live very close to nature, and to all these creatures [both chuckling] -But nothing really that different happens -Okay, and here... Tell us about here. -Oh, man. Here, if you walk around, I would say Even if you're walking the same street, I can guarantee you're always And also you'll see that -Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah. -People are super friendly, so... You smile, you're gonna get it back. -It's really nice. -Yes, and if they see that you're -Yeah. -They will be happy -Yeah, I mean look, -Oh no, it's not. -This is some Mexico City cadence. -It is, yeah. -Which I'm gonna say -It is unique, I mean, remember also, -We have Easter coming, -I don't know if it's called PETER: Okay, we're in the center, -Yes, we are in Zocalo, -Is this the heart of Mexico would you say? Right here? The city was founded here. -Back in the day, there's a story but they say that the Aztecs because a God of them Uh... An eagle eating a snake on top of a cactus. Which is too specific and too weird So when they did, So this would be Which was where the Aztecs were living. -Do you in your modern culture Would you consider them Do you have that superstition Like my wife's Ukrainian. Like yeah, Orthodoxy hit them. Before that they were very spiritual. Pagan roots. -And you can still see it today. Is that the story here at all or no? -I think in some people and even when we're full of because remember, there used to be a big pyramid. So they destroyed them -There was a pyramid there before? -So the Spanish covered every pyramid? -Not every... We have some left but... -What's the name of the pyramids -Uh, Teotihuacan. -Teotihuacan? And so you still have some of those there is a church where there was temples. I would say there's still people... -That's what we were talking about. She's great. [both laughing] There's still people that... We're gonna see some people doing They do, like... They cure you with stuff, So that's still around. But I guess it depends on I mean it's part of our culture, and we like seeing it, I don't believe in that, -Are people very religious in Mexico City? -I would say they're becoming than what their grandparents [woman blowing conch shell horn] PETER: What's the death look? What's that significance? -A lot. Yeah, yeah. -It has to do with the gods. The pre-Hispanic god of death, right? Um, like your equivalent in But there is an obsession -There is, you see it everywhere. LALO: This is more for you Get rid of the bad luck. PETER: I might do it. -Yeah, do it, man. MAN: What is your name? -Pedro. -Open your hands, close your eyes, relax. [blowing conch shell horn] [blowing conch shell horn] -I think I've transformed. LALO: Are you transformed? I don't want to make videos anymore. You can have my GoPro. [Lalo laughing] -Just joking. That was interesting. -I like it, yeah. What was your feeling like? -It's relaxing. So you have the pre-Hispanic Pagan thing LALO: Don't you feel that somehow feels freer than here? Here, you straight away -This is very powerful in a... I mean the way I feel in these things are but you feel very small. -Yep. -And someone... God is potentially going to kick your a** PETER: So this is still though, -Oh, yeah. -Even though it's on the decline? There will be lots of older people with very small kids too. -Yeah. -If those kids are gonna grow but at the moment, like... [Lalo speaking Spanish to driver] PETER: So we're going -Yes, we are. -Which you associate with ski hills, but Mexico City's gone big To get around the slums, -Yes, slums. I would call them slums. Favela is the same. -The thing is that they're doing that in Mexico City there is 8.8 million people. In the city. -And then the greater metro is 21.5 mil? -So all these people -Yeah. -...have to come to work to the city. -Right.. -And you don't have Regardless of if you keep -Yep. -...and whatever, it's never enough. -So they did that to make it faster to come all the way to... Because the favelas -Yes. You're gonna see they've eaten, -Eating the hills, yeah. That's interesting, I mean, when I think of the US the best real estate -Yep. -and here can be the opposite. -Yeah, because first here, generally -Okay. -So somebody that is a d*ckhead, Uh, spaces to people. People pay them So by the time that the authorities realize and you shouldn't be building, Because there is already and you're not ever going to be able Sometimes they don't even have, but by the time a community is built, but before that they can and take the electricity This is my first time here. PETER: Okay, so tell me why -I never come to this side of the city. I don't really need to come I was not curious enough -So where you live, where we're -Yes. -People there are never coming over here? -Maybe some. I doubt it to be honest. -Right. -But maybe some PETER: So a neighborhood like this, What would you call this? -I would say this would be If we segmented the middle class in three, -What do you think -Not many apartments here, as you see. -So houses... I'm just gonna guess maybe a million pesos. -Okay, in dollars? -$50,000? -What's the average salary here? -Well, the low... The official salary? -Yeah. And that's around 300 and something pesos. -So $15? We're starting to get on As close as we get to the hill, right? That would be a challenge to go up there Like most Ubers don't want to go there. -Okay, how about you How would you feel about that? -I wouldn't mind doing it now. If it starts to get dark... LALO: I'm very interested As everything, maybe it's perception? -Maybe once I get there I'm gonna see but if you ask me without really knowing, I won't do it when it's dark. Because you can see, and they've very narrow. -Yeah. Well their word, but they tell you, is that once you go up there or one car going down, it's very easy and you're gonna be mugged. -But I mean, it's mostly good, with a criminal element going on? -Maybe some... Yeah. And still the whole family is all right. PETER: What about the cartel situation LALO: In Mexico City, because they made I would say you can tell -What do you mean? -You can tell because if you go to toilet, you get offered drugs and that means that it's like a peaceful... Um... -Gesture? -Okay. We all know it's there. It's still illegal but I think it works better that way because we haven't heard from Narcos or anything for a while now. So I guess that makes it work better. PETER: This is amazing, this system. I mean there are multiple cable cars -Yeah. I'm actually very surprised upbeat jazz PETER: Hola. [Spanish] LALO: The cool thing about Mexico So if you feel like you shouldn't go I always give two advices One of them is if it feels dodgy, -Yeah. -The other one is never, ever -So these guys, don't trust 'em? I would never trust a police officer. -So what do you mean by that? Like they're just gonna -No, not just by walking by PETER: Hola. If you were to be in, uh... In that kind of situation... To be honest, they are just going to -Okay. Even in the super nice neighborhoods here? -Oh man, even worse there. PETER: Okay, so if you don't trust What keeps the order? -I guess the society itself. -To be honest, I think so. To be honest, I think so. -Oh, this is great. -Papaya, pineapple. PETER: Hola. This is great, it's like -I am a tourist in my own city, man. [both chuckling] -How do you feel about the vibe here? You said in Mexico you gotta be -At the moment? Nah, man, there is lights, -Yeah. -Like, lots of families and stuff. -People waving. -People waving. -Oh, this is great. ...somebody like you Some bald... -No, no, you're not a whitesican -Okay. -Whitesicans are the Mexicans That live in the rich areas, right? -Okay, okay. Oh, this place is on fire right here. They can also be, like, brown or whatever. PETER: Hola, amigos. [Spanish] LALO: We can get some enchiladas. PETER: Oh, this is great up here. PETER: Hola. PETER: Hey. Oh, they're awesome. PETER: [Spanish] People in [Lalo speaking Spanish] [Spanish] PETER: What did she say? LALO: She said it's a dangerous PETER: What happens if I walk here [Spanish] -Yeah, you won't have a camera anymore. [laughs] [Spanish] -So she says that -Yeah, what she's saying is So what we're doing Walking on those is all right. Like where the mercado was, that. -But she's not recommending [Spanish] If you want to keep that. [laughs] [hawkers and customers chattering] LALO: So these are everywhere, right? I don't know if you have watched the movie. It's an American movie actually. And what they do is they fabricate and, like, bloody scenes, and everything. So maybe some of them are true. Maybe some of them are made up -Oh, really? -They show these very brutal... They show the murder -Yes, but the beauty of the Mexican version is that everything has, -You have a lot of dark humor here? -Dark humor, and everything related That when I used to take At that time, you go with the very working And they're reading this So I was always standing there It's brilliant. It's horrible. It's brutal, It's like, what? Who? Like, they use of words PETER: What happened to this guy? -He got shot? -Where? Up here? -What happened? -No, it was, like, drunk people with a gun. -Oh, okay, gotcha. [Lalo laughing] PETER: What did he say? He said that you should be grateful because I know what I'm doing, [laughs] LALO: So when you're Like brownish, then you're safer like, they tell you, like... Because you are with me that I'm part of the group -Right, right. So there's always a line -Yep. -Where you can go too far -Yes. -You can be too safe, and see nothing, and do nothing, right? And that's up to the individual. It takes experience too, to some degree. -Like feeling places out, The windows up there, up there. Do they look angry? Like just those basic reactions. -With that said, it is a risk, you know? -I'm the one dude Everyone's been super cool and friendly -And they will still be I can guarantee there's another mix to this Which is whenever they see fear -Oh, you're done. -You know what I mean? -So because we're actually both they can sense that. I mean it's not like we're like, -It's universal. Look I've had guys, like, pull guns out. Just to get my reaction. They want to see me be like, &quot;Oh, sh*t.&quot; and then if I respond like that they're gonna take that to the next level, And if I just stay calm... And I learned this skill when I crossed -Oh, sh*t. -And all the guys were -Okay. -And they're sizing me up and down. And you gotta play it chill. -And somehow navigate -Yeah, yeah. -And I end up, like, slapping high fives. But it's one of those, You know what I mean? -Here, I guess what we're going Is being friendly and smiling. -Yeah, yeah, yeah. -I just like going with that. And that's... We are lost now. -[Peter unsure] Uh... -Um, we don't want to look lost -Okay, there you go. -Yeah, I think that's the difference Like, if you're... If you're smiling, Maybe the other way around. The other way around, like at night -Yeah. So we want to get up to... -The gondola was. It's right up here. -Just watch with Always.... -'Cause it's easier for them And then... -Yeah, are they looking back at us? -Yeah. Key sign, and they're not... PETER: Hola, senior. [Spanish] PETER: And there we are, we're back. This street is so steep, look at this. This is a total calf burner. LALO: Just imagine this -Yeah, look at that. [Lalo chuckles] [Spanish] -Yeah, it's way safer to be -So do a lot of the people they work in the center of the city, [Spanish] -Everywhere in the city. [Spanish] Yeah, what you were saying. One gang controls that, -How many gangs are in this, like, -Like three. So it's not many of them. -Okay, so they like... Someone controls that, someone controls that? -I guess so, yeah. -Ah, you speak English as well? [all laughing] PETER: All right, LALO: Tlalpexco, yeah. No cable cars or anything. So this is Downtown, you'd call it? -This would be the center of the city. All of this area, Reforma, and all the way to Condesa. All of those areas. -Polanco even, that's like Business, yeah, but lately All the big corporates -Which is, like, another city -Like, another city on the outskirts, that Santa Fe used to be a big dump. So that's funny because sometimes So it's very likely that because they're built over trash. LALO: Hola. [Spanish] PETER: This is great. And they offer spice, -Of course, you in Mexico, -You mind holding that? ...or it's gonna have chilli on it, Otherwise people do not enjoy their food. -Which is ridiculous that takes away the real taste of food. -Okay, here's a question for you. -I would say in the states, When I first came here. -Everyone's like, &quot;Don't go to Mexico City, I went. I was in Had an amazing time. -What are your thoughts 'Cause there are many more but what do you think? -Well if you ask me, Well of course it is, as any big city. -But it's not really dangerous. Depends also the area. For obvious reasons. -But if you're walking around or the centric areas, or the crowded areas -Right. -In the city, it's not dangerous. 15 years ago when I left the country you wouldn't even see people That would be like a no-no. -You wouldn't take your computer outside. Like, no way. Or even, like, mobile phones that was not common. Now it's an everyday thing how it was then and how it is now. -So what made the change happen? Like, was there some new policy You said the cops are corrupt, so... -Cops are corrupt, however, ...maybe that scares bad men. -I don't really know. I'm guessing you had a more -Okay. -And unfortunately that's when Not for the people that are... -I think so. If someone from somewhere in the world that's gonna make the news. If... -Yeah, it just happened. -Where was that? It was on a border town, -That was two Americans, right? Then there are people saying, -Yes. -Like the whole country -And then the local government goes and actually builds some safety PETER: So this is Condesa? From these neighborhoods you can come -Yep. -Walking from your house to the place, for two, three kilometers -This is great, this collection -Wait until we get to the... ...'cause we gonna see lots of 'em. -And Polanco as well. -So Polanco is the last neighborhood and that's, like, -It's like the poshest -It's not the poshest of the city -But the poshest of the city totally gated off or what? -It's just places you really have It's beautiful, but obviously people drive there. No one walks around it's a waste of your time Just houses, outside of houses, right? -That's cool what they did here. -That's very cool. LALO: It's empty, as you see, people that live in this area [chuckles] PETER: Oh, look at this. -Yes, this is great. [Peter and Lalo greeting employee] PETER: Wow. PETER: Hasta luego. This is such a cool street. -This is a whisky bar. -It really comes out at night here? LALO: Hola. This not Mexican at all. -Yeah, it's like... you said it right, it's an Austrian, slash Italian, -Yeah. -Yeah? ...and that's very common That is very Mexican, and what I was drinking before -Yeah, yeah. -This would be your hangover drink, -Oh, this is really good. -Yeah, your salsas here -But is it, like, very spicy or no? -It's a nice spice, not too crazy, yeah. -I don't know, you might take spicy [Peter giggles] I sweat with everything -So good. So okay, you were saying before... -There's an issue in these neighborhoods and they're pissing off the locals a bit So since the pandemic, -And Europeans. I'm actually meeting an American -Okay. What's your take on it as a local? -Well, I'm a local, and the reason that I chose this are, is because I like being surrounded -Yeah. -That means different cultures, -Oh, yeah. -So to me if that would make my life my rent and everything... To me that's a choice because that's the area -Okay. -It's true that rents have gone up. However, I also think that So the world is more movement of people changing countries all the time... ...and moving around. -We cannot go against that You can still have in this city, choices of neighborhoods That not many foreigners go Many people that have lived here -Yeah. -...you know, maybe the business owner that has been in this area for 20 years... -...and all of a sudden and then he has to increase his products. That, people will care. -If there is an old person and they've been around there and suddenly their rent keeps increasing, Some people will go, &quot;It's not fair &quot;...of hours or whatever, -Yeah. Somebody gets euros, or dollars, and to them, things are super cheap here. Food, like, housing, whatever. And you can work online easily now, A lot of people are the same. -So I guess it depends who you ask ...there is a very... ...interesting number of people Like everything is getting more expensive. -Like, &quot;Get out, gringo.&quot; -It's not that common -Right, if... -If people get pushed economically too much and then there's someone to point at -Imagine that you live -Yeah. -And you don't make a lot of money -Yep. -...and eventually you cannot pay two steps below, say, -Yeah, so you're pissed. -Do you have rent control? -No. So this is a classy place, right? -This a cantina. The real cantina... The real cantina, if you have three drinks, -No way, they still exist? upbeat jazz PETER: Look at this architecture, wow. LALO: It's cool, man. PETER: Okay, so this is Polanco? This is more where -Yeah. -...buy properties -Oh. -Or this is where lots of the Jewish and they either rent them out -Are there many Mexican-Jewish? -Yes, yes, yes, there's plenty of them. -And Mexican-Jewish, ....communities with the money. -Yeah. [people chattering in Spanish] -I love when grown men -I think they always take it more seriously -Yeah. -Whenever... -...and you buy them that, -Yeah, exactly. This is great over here. busker playing guitar [Lalo singing along] -Yeah, sing it. That's all I knew from it. [laughs] PETER: So here in Tlalpexco, LALO: Completely different universe. -Like a different country. -The reality, Um... ...of the country, is that that generally they don't... By nature, They are the most similar ones. So all of the churches and in very rich neighborhoods so much into these festivities of, Generally you have are the wealthier and the poorest. -Really, so the middle -I would say so. PETER: This is what I love about and this is actually a wide street. There are many parts of this city, -Yep. -And you hear those birds. -All the time. [birds chirping] All the time. I wake up and they're already doing that. I go to bed and they're still doing that. -...on the street I'm staying on. As crazy as this place is, -Always. -You know, it's really It's either this extreme Pretty much? Even if you live in a busy neighborhood, If you go into one of the side streets... Like tranquility. [chuckles] It's very surreal. -It's a special place. It's one of my favorite cities. -That's what I love about this city too. -And trust me, It's because if I was born here like it did when I left, I would stop. But it's unpredictable in a way -Yeah. PETER: Well Lalo, you've been awesome. -No, you've been great. Guys, off-camera, Lalo was saying, &quot;...'cause this was a lot of fun today.&quot; -It was lots of fun, yeah. -He's got a job in marketing but you said to those that want to do -I'm interested to do that... -...whenever anyone wants I discovered that today -So you're gonna go -Why not? Or any other hood or fancier areas, whatever people are into. -Yeah, and there are -Yep. -And you know the food scene, right? -All right, guys, so Lalo's link is and want an awesome tour. No guarantees he's available. -Yeah, no guarantees. ...but if you can time it right All right, guys, thanks for coming along. Until the next one. upbeat jazz