We will introduce the process of making a traditional Japanese mask (Noh mask). Ichiyu Terai started learning Noh masks at the age of 22 and is now 73 years old. A veteran craftsman with over 50 years of career. Noh masks are traditional Japanese masks used in the traditional performing art of Noh. Let's take a look at the process of making a Noh mask. First of all, we will make a rectangular parallelepiped block of wood into the shape of a face. It is produced using over 100 tools. Mr Terai has had exhibitions in museums in the US so far. He is one of the craftsmen who attract attention from overseas. There are 50 types of masks that he makes. Masks will not be sold to the general public. However, Mr. Terai wants people all over the world to know more about Noh masks. Therefore, we started an online shop so that people all over the world can buy it. There is a link in the summary column, so please check it out. Gradually, the shape of the face was completed. We will repeat the work of aligning the pattern many times and shaving. Mr. terai will perform at the Santa Fe International Folk Art Museum in New Mexico, USA from June 1, 2023 to several days. It is a very precious timing to demonstrate Noh mask production at YOKAI ART WORKSHOP. If you are interested, please come and visit us! After arranging the fine parts, we will finish the finer parts of the face. Cut out the back of the mask. No machines are not used in Noh mask production. It is no exaggeration to say that it is the culmination of Japanese woodcraft. Since it is actually used in theatrical performances, it is made thin in the sense of weight reduction. More than 100 tools are used to make a Noh mask. From here, we are finishing the parts of the face. It is made with attention to details such as lips and teeth. This mouth looks like it's smiling or sad. That is also the biggest feature of this aspect. This mask is called ko-omote and represents a young woman. It is a mysterious mask that sometimes looks laughing and sometimes sad. It is popular for its unique mask that allows you to see emotions. I will prepare the eye parts. Due to the extremely detailed work, there is a sense of tension in the workshop. I'm going to gouge out my eyes. The hole is widened to widen the field of view because it is actually used in theatrical performances. It became more and more realistic. It is a detailed commitment that only Mr. Terai can do. I'm going to gouge out my nose. Creates a feminine nostril. Paint your face white. The material used is a mixture of white ink and glue. Applying 2 or 3 layers repeatedly will create a thick white color. I will carefully apply it so that it does not become uneven. Attention to detail. Scrape the surface to remove any unevenness. Of course, this part is also done by hand. I will draw the hair. Creates depth by layering. Breathe life into your eyes. Using fine brushes, we will create eyes that look like they are about to start moving at any moment. Draw eyebrows. It is characterized by vague eyebrows instead of sharp eyebrows. I draw with a brush and a tissue. Color your lips red. Applying lipstick instantly brightens up your look. It has become more feminine. As soon as the color applied earlier is dry, carve more details of the hair. Carefully engrave each piece. By sprinkling ink from above, the expression will have depth. This moment will change your look. Create a facial expression by blurring the parts with a tissue. Finally, the whole is scraped and completed. Thank you for watching until the end. We will show you the finished product from 16 minutes 20 seconds. This finished product can be purchased from our online shop. Please see from the summary column. In addition to the mask in the video, there are 50 types of masks in the online shop. If you are interested, please take a look! Thank you again for watching until the end! We have also uploaded the process of making crafts by Japanese craftsmen. Check it out!