Transcriber: Emma Gon I'm going to take you back to class, to school, to algebra, and that's probably the last thing that you wanted to do in a TED talk today. Maybe you remember how to solve small systems of equations in variables X, Y, Z, and maybe they didn't tell you exactly what these X, Y, Z were, and you were left with the impression that these equations nor particularly beautiful. But actually equations like these are the very core and all the algebra around them. And because each of these equations defines a relationship between and relationships Now, for that reason, we love them, and I want to share Maybe you remember you express most of these variables and after some manipulations, that you can then solve That works really well But perhaps you had these nightmares of going into class one day, and your teacher writing this test of equations and saying, &quot;Go ahead and solve them.&quot; Now the equations that I work with, have thousands and obviously we would really and a lot of patience to solve So, of course, we don't. Instead we use computer programs. Now, before we can use we need to reorder So we're going to write them under each other for example, Z in that first equation we add it but we multiply it with a zero. And then we explicity write Write everything in terms It seems a little bit silly, But now you see, Something times X plus something time Z And so we don't have to write we just remember the order And we store these X, Y and Z in a little skinny table like this, and then the ones and the zeros in a separate table, like - I will show you in a minute, here. So now the system is really just a table and then these little vectors Now this table of coefficients we call the matrix. And the matrix is so famous, they even made a few movies And like Morpheus says in this movie, &quot;The matrix is everywhere. It's all around us.&quot; Even now in this very room. So I want to give you a few examples of where matrices occur. And as first example to the San Francisco Bay. So here in the San Francisco Bay, some of my colleagues designed of the tidal flows And this is a really that can show you for example, salinity gradients in the bay or maybe surface and useful for the America's Cup which is exactly Now the flow is much and computer velocity So instead we want to be computing the velocities in a set of points distributed throughout the domain and here the points Now through the laws of physics, we can relay the velocity to velocities in neighboring points. There is a relationship between them. If there is a relationship, and if I have a whole what do I get? The matrix. Now, if I write down this matrix and it will have a lot of numbers instead for every non-zero I put a little blue dot, right? And then what I get that we can actually look at from afar and then you can see structure in this. Now we use computer programs or visuals of matrices like this and these are called spy plots, and sometimes they have little Easter eggs in them. And so, one of these programs when you type the command, spy you see this. (Laughter) Now we can do the same thing in your body I don't know if you realize this, but your body has matrices in [it]. And now I'm going to take you of my colleagues in Med USC in San Diego of blood flow through the aorta. Now this blood flow model was created And besides the blood flow it will also give you really interesting that are important for blood clotting that you want to know And again, the velocities are computed in points And the matrix that comes out has a really interesting structure, too. Now, search engines which words occur in which website. And I want to take four Stanford, beating, California, and the word, egg, right? And five websites that have one And so, there is over TEDxStanford, Now what the search engine does it creates a beautiful table, where each row of the table and each column of the table And if a word occurs in the web page and if it doesn't, then you put a zero And what do you get out of this? Now in reality these matrices and millions of words thick. And you need to be in order to build So, you know now to earn a little bit of money. So here are those matrices. Now a very variation on this theme is shown in the next slide of a matrix and here every column, every row and there is a little blue dot have a lot of words in common. So this is a connection matrix for We can do the same with web pages, we can put web pages and put a little blue dot if there is And what you are looking at here now is the Stanford and Berkeley web domains. With Stanford nicely clustered, but there is communication because there are some blue dots which is actually kind of surprising since we keep beating them. But they still want Now, matrices are also in your brain. Here you are looking that connect gray matter And looking at this, that has gray matter along the rows and the columns and show connectivity So, here you can stare and understand how So matrices are everywhere, they model systems of equations, they're in your brain, and as mathematicians, and we really love them. And these matrices, So, when I prepared for this talk, I asked my students, And here are a couple So we have some matrices and then in the top right, and symmetry, as we know, so we love those. And then the matrices and sort of bended like this so they are really fantastic. And then there are other matrices a sort of blockage structures. But the very winner of this competition was the matrix we called and that comes up a lot And it may not look every diagonal in this matrix and it makes it much easier to work with. Now what about the nastiest matrices and here is the one that we hate the most. There are two elements that are very different in size We call them ill-conditioned. But the worst matrices in the whole world are very very large matrices and to be able to work with those, we need to write specialized and so there are millions Now the people wrote [them] these very large matrices. For example, the matrix for climate models, And these lines of code, they are behind that you will see out there and that people use Now, I said, I was going to talk and maybe so far, to say, we've seen some that's not very beautiful. So let me show you how we put beauty Here is a matrix a number with each row And every number is now to a note or a little ball. There are going to be four of them, And now whenever I have a non-zero in the matrix, for example, at positions in the first row, it means there is a connection and one and three. Now one and one doesn't show up, but one and three does. So the next row gives me the next row gives me an additional And now I draw between one and four. Now we have a little graph and that looks much more pleasing But you can just imagine with lots of ones and zeros All these little balls and all So here is the trick. Whenever there is a link we imagine there is a spring But at the same time, we give so that when they're they repel each other, and then we just let things go, And what looked to be a mess, is turning into a beautiful structure. It just finds the minimum energy, and the outcome is And when we study them, some of the properties of the physics, even coming out in these pictures. Now we can apply those And I want to share Here is people Modelling of a lung, Financial portfolio analysis. Shallow water models, The Standford web. MRI modelling. Analog circuits... Tidal flow models. And my very favorite one, that tells you how in the Library Congress So, that math that you learned that these equations that's behind everything. It is beautiful, it's omnipresent, It's everywhere and who knew you could make such pretty pictures. Thank you very much.