- Most of us tie our shoe laces wrong. There are two ways to tie In one, you go counterclockwise and in the other, you go clockwise. These two methods look almost identical, but one of these knots is It doesn't loosen or come To understand why, we need to delve into knot theory. This is a whole branch of mathematics that aims to identify, every possible knot that could ever exist. So far, we have discovered Each one has its own particular properties and characteristics. I think it's fascinating that there's something for knots out there, but it's not pure math. Knot theory has turned out It is core to the structure It's leading to new materials that could be stronger than Kevlar. It's even used to develop medicines that save millions of lives. All of this just from trying So what is a knot? Well, in our everyday lives, we see knots like this or this, but if you are trying to you want to be able to pull them apart so you can really see what's going on. The problem is knots like only by tension and friction. So if you pull on them too hard, they fall apart. So in order to capture mathematicians got the idea And now, well, you can tease but it will never fundamentally change. So in knot theory, all This means the simplest knot you can have is just a circle like this. Now, admittedly, this which is why it is called an unknot. Here is another knot. Again, it's made of a single piece of rope that forms a closed loop. Here is another. Two knots are only different if you can't make one into the other without breaking the loop. This is the simplest It is called the trefoil, and you can see that there's no way for me to turn this back into a circle unless I actually break it open, take out the knot and Now I have two unknots. It is surprisingly hard to Here is a simple mystery knot. Is it an unknot, a trefoil or neither? I'll give you a second to figure it out. It is in fact a trefoil, which you can see if I just untwist this and rearrange the knot a little bit. And our first complicated knot, well, it is actually just the unknot. I'm going to try to disentangle There you go. It was just a single loop. In fact, these are all unknots, and this is where the problem begins. You can't just randomly tangle some rope and connect the ends. To make a new mathematical knot, you need to prove it's not just a tangled up So how do you tell two knots apart? This one question, also known as the knot is so famously difficult that it's propelled the for over 150 years. Alan Turing even wrote &quot;No systematic method is yet known &quot;by which one can tell whether &quot;A decision problem which &quot;is the one concerning knots. &quot;The results in this &quot;to what we can hope to Previously, the most famous was the Gordian knot. It was said that whoever untangled was destined to rule all of Asia. Legend goes, Alexander the Great simply came along and That would not be a valid And there are other The endless knot is seen as far back as clay tablets from the Indus Valley, and it was used in Chinese knot work and In Incan civilization, knots were tied on chords called quipu to track everything You can even find a knot in the coat of arms for an Italian noble family that The Borromeon rings which is just a knot with The most basic link is the unlink, two loops which aren't actually connected, much like the unknot. After that is the Hopf link. Then later, the Borromeon rings and more. But the knot equivalence problem was only encountered centuries later. In January of 1867, Scottish physicist Peter Guthrie Tait showed off his homemade smoke machine to renowned scientist William Thomson, later Lord Kelvin. Tait had read a paper that said a vortex ring in an ideal fluid. So intrigued, he set up two wooden boxes containing a kind of toxic mixture of ammonia, sulfuric acid and salt. When he tapped a towel stretched across the back of each box, the chemical smoke popped in perfect rings. Kelvin, watching, was He had been pondering a fundamental question of the time, and suddenly he saw an answer. He declared that atoms must be made out of vortex rings of ether, an invisible everywhere medium. Different knots of vortex rings would make different elements. The shape of the Hopf link explained the double The simple unknot ring was hydrogen. Tait was skeptical, but as Kelvin's vortex model of the atom became a leading theory, Tait began investigating knots in earnest. In his mind, creating a periodic table of the elements with every new knot he found. The crossing number is an Just take the simplest form of a knot, one with no extra twists or tangles, and count up all its crossings. By hand, Tait discovered a three then a four crossing then two five crossing knots, three six crossing knots and One quick note, knots are additive. You can stick multiple knots like combining these two trefoils This is called a composite knot, but some knots aren't These are known as prime knots. Since all composite knots people mainly focus on Unfortunately for Tait, warning signs were on the horizon for Lord Kelvin's vortex Mendeleev's first periodic table The Michelson-Morley about an ether in 1887, and the most damning result was JJ Thomson's discovery So there were particles which were inside atoms. But Tait was already in too He had even roped in his academic rival and close friend James Clerk Maxwell of Maxwell's equations fame. Thanks to Tait's influence, Maxwell became a knot enthusiast His last poem written shortly before his even begins, &quot;My soul's &quot;upon a liquid vortex wrought.&quot; Assisted in part by hundreds Tait published his list of knots up to seven crossings in 1877, the first math paper with Then Tait paused his In a speech, he stated, &quot;The requisite labor increases &quot;as the number of crossings is increased. &quot;Someone with the requisite leisure &quot;should try to extend this list, &quot;if possible, up to 11.&quot; Two mathematicians took him Thomas Kirkman and Charles Little. Together, the three of them were able to find all all 49 nine crossing knots and all 166 10 crossing knots by 1899, just two years before Tait's death. This was all done painstakingly by hand. Tait admits in his paper, &quot;I cannot be absolutely certain that all those groups are one from another.&quot; In the process of tabulating knots, he had uncovered the central problem of how to possibly tell them apart. Somewhat miraculously, Tait, Kirkman and Little with their knot tables. Their list stood for 75 until a single correction in 1973. But more on that later. For decades after Tait's death, little progress was made on But in 1927, German mathematician Kurt Reidemeister proved a radical theorem. You only need three types of moves to transform any two identical The twist, the poke and the slide, where you move a string from one side of a crossing to the other. Now we can prove some knots are the same. If you can show that they're connected by Reidemeister moves, you've proven that they must be identical. But we still don't know how to prove any knots because you could do Reidemeister moves on one knot for centuries without it ever looking And maybe they're actually different, but maybe they're the same and you just never made the right move to show that that is true. This may have been where when he called the knot potentially undecidable. But in 1961, mathematician Wolfgang Haken that solved the not equivalence for this specific case of distinguishing any That said, his paper and the algorithm would've taken longer than the age of the universe In 2001, building on Haken's work, mathematicians found a way to distinguish between by simply setting an upper bound on the number of Reidemeister If you check all sequences up to that number, you can prove if the knot There's just one problem. That upper bound was two As of today, the upper bound has improved dramatically to just 236 n to the power of 11. Now, while smaller than before, checking all possible up to this number is still unfathomable. For a single crossing knot, this is larger than the number of stars in the observable universe. In 2011, mathematicians on the number of Reidemeister moves needed to connect any two knots or links, solving the entire knot This is the upper bound. First, raise two to the second power, then raise that to the power of two again. This operation is called Now keep doing it until you 10 to the million n times. Cap it off with n again. This is easily the largest number we have ever shown in a video. But even just to have a given that Turing thought the problem was potentially undecidable If it's this hard to tell two knots apart, how have we managed to tabulate Well, there are some properties of a knot that never change, no matter how much you These are called invariants, and these invariants will compared to other ones. So you can use them as They're not perfectly discriminating. I mean, some knots will share invariants, but if two knots have different invariants then you know for sure Crossing number is itself aninvariant. Two knots can't be identical if they have different crossing numbers. But the crossing number is surprisingly difficult to calculate. You can put extra crossings into any knot, like just throw in a bunch of twists. Different variations of the same knot are known as different Crossing number measures the a knot can have, but it only works for the also known as its reduced form, but it's difficult to ensure Instead, we can use another invariant, one that's true right away So it'll give the same value both for a messy trefoil This first invariant is tricolorability or whether or knot can be Take a diagram of a knot and color in each individual segment. These are just separated where you would lift Tricolorability only has two rules. First, you must use at least two colors because you can color any And second, at crossings, the three intersecting strands must either be all the same Basically no two colored crossings. There are just two either a knot is tricolorable or it's not. Identical knots must match. So if one knot is tricolorable then you know they're different knots. It's hard to believe that across any possible but since you only need Reidemeister moves to move between projections, we just need to prove that it isn't affected The twist is easy. Everything's one color already, and it stays that way. With the poke, the intersection of two colors must become the third color. So we have three colors With the slide, you never have to break tricolorability because you start with three and then switch one So any knot will maintain no matter what Reidemeister moves you do. This is a good time to note that we never actually proved were two different knots, but we can do it now with tricolorability. The unknot is not tricolorable since you can't use at least and the trefoil is easily tricolorable, just color in each of the three The crossings all have three colors, so it is tricolorable. Now we know every possible projection of while every possible So these two knots must This invariant isn't very specific. It only gives you two In fact, the next knot after the trefoil, the figure eight knot, isn't tricolorable. There's always a crossing with two colors. So how do we prove that this which also isn't tricolorable? Tricolorability expands into called p-colorability, where p can be any prime Instead of using colors, we'll number each strand with integers between p-colorability has two rules. First, you must use at Second, at crossings, the two bottom strands added must give the same remainder as twice the top strand divided by p. Tricolorability was just If we go from three to five colorability for the figure eight knot, we can number the strands zero, one, and then this strand must give and this strand must give a This knot is five colorable, so it's not the unknot. p-colorability is a huge tool. The unknot is completely uncolorable, so any knot with any p-colorability still Some of the most powerful the ones that can distinguish are polynomials. The Alexander polynomial back in 1923 before Like p-colorability, it relies on only two rules. The first is that the Alexander is equal to one. The second is that you can zoom in on any single crossing of a knot and vary it in three possible positions, forward, backward and separate. The Alexander polynomial between the three resulting knots. Let's do an example. What's the Alexander Well, if we zoom into and then vary it, we see that the other two knots so we can plug in one for both of them, and we get that the Alexander must be zero. Then we can do the same for the Hopf link. Taking this crossing as then seeing that the backward and the separate crossing is the unknot. So the Alexander polynomial is minus t to the 1/2 And now we can do the trefoil. When we vary this crossing, we get that the backward and the separate crossing So the Alexander polynomial is t minus one plus t to the negative one. The polynomial is designed so for as many knots and links as we can, and this is recursive. We can calculate the polynomial forever for bigger and bigger knots. The Alexander polynomial stood as the knot invariant of choice. But in 1984, it was upended by an unlikely discovery. Mathematician Vaughan Jones had been working on a type of algebra for statistical mechanics, a concept in physics, when he realized his work resembled a series He traveled to New York to consult knot theorist Joan who helped refine his equations They met again a week later and tested it against knot diagrams from Birman's filing cabinet, quickly realizing Jones had discovered a brand new polynomial invariant. He scribbled down all their The Jones polynomial but with the more specific that lets it distinguish many more knots. For this discovery, Jones won the field's medal in 1990. The first new polynomial invariant kicked up a fervor in knot theory. Just months after Joan's result, six mathematicians each independently found an improved with two variables instead of one. The editors of the American Math Society published all their papers together, naming it The HOMFLY polynomial. Two Polish Mathematicians missed the news and discovered it again upon which it became the None of these invariants works alone. Just like if you were you'd start by checking a then a birthday and so on to eventually narrow your Similarly, knots have which when taken together, uniquely identify them. With invariants to prove and Reidemeister moves to you can attack from two angles of distinguishing every single knot. But this method isn't perfect. These two knots were in Tait's knot tables for over 75 years. They were the same by So Tait and Little likely to see if they could And once they failed, they listed them as two separate knots. Kenneth Perko, a lawyer who spotted them in 1973 while looking through Little's Suspicious of their similarities, he pulled out a yellow legal pad to sketch some Reidemeister moves, and he quickly found a way These two projections now are the same knot. So the knot tables of were issued their single correction. And instead of 166 ten crossing knots, there are 165. It had taken decades of work up to 10 crossings. No one dared tackle the 11 He found all 552, and claimed he did it This was the last tabulation by hand. In the '80s, Dowker and Thistlethwaite to count all 12 and 13 crossing knots. Thistlethwaite later joined to tabulate all 14, 15 in a paper titled &quot;The The method they used is employing a computer to and then using invariants They split into two teams aligning perfectly on all but In 2020, mathematician Ben Burton single-handedly tabulated all bringing the total number to 352,152,252. His project was so several hundred computers before obtaining the final number. The hardest part of knot tabulation is counting up every knot and then carefully eliminating duplicates. But if you just want to generate a huge number of distinct knots, you can make alternating knots, knots with crossings that This computation is much easier, though it leaves out most knots. And back in 2007, this method was used to up to an absurd 24 crossings. So in total, we know of Of course, we're missing Knot theory was always just pure math. All the algorithms, were knowledge for the sake of knowledge. But in 1989, chemist Jean-Pierre Sauvage tied molecules around copper ions to form the first ever This trefoil knot restricted trapping them in higher energy states to give the molecule new properties. Any type of knot tied in a molecule will change its properties, and we know of over 159 billion knots. So if you can tie a molecule that's 159 billion new unique materials created from a single molecule. Though after the trefoil, chemists have only managed to tie five other molecular knots to date. It's a difficult task. Since they can't just nudge molecules must be built to Knot theory helps identify which knots match available molecular templates, symmetric knots are easier for one, and how to arrange those The most complex knot yet with 192 atoms tied around This molecule holds the for tightest knot in the world, defined as the most in this case, eight Since it's knotted around a chloride ion, once the ion is removed, this molecule is one of the in existence. The field is still new Chemists are just focused before thinking about but they hope to eventually build things like durable fabrics stronger than Kevlar. Knot theory is also critical that have saved millions of lives. Bacterial DNA consists of a single loop of the double helix molecule. This shape means that it when it replicates, and the bacteria can't with their DNA tangled up like this. So they have an enzyme called which snips and reconnects the DNA. This turns their linked so they can replicate cleanly. If you inhibit type two tophi summaries, the bacteria can't replicate properly, and in fact they die. This is how some of the most called quinolones operate. Human DNA, while not circular, is long enough to also get into tangles. Each cell in your body That's the equivalent of stuffing 200 kilometers of fishing line into a basketball. When this mess inevitably tangles, human type two topoisomerases The human version of the from the bacterial version that it's unaffected by antibiotics. But human topoisomerases are sometimes intentionally inhibited. This stops replication and kills cells, predominantly the rapidly So it's one of the most Biologists needed knot theory to first understand the mechanism Once they observed it was decreasing the crossing two at a time, they realized it had to entire double strands of DNA. And there are many other that act on DNA. Knot theory is used to analyze the knots they tie or untie and how they operate as a result. It's not just DNA that knots. 1% of all proteins have various knots in their fundamental structure. If they get misknotted, they malfunction. So being able to helps understand these as well as how to potentially When it comes to your shoe laces, both of the common ways to tie the knot are composed of two trefoils I'm going to tie some rope around my leg to make this easier to see. When you go counterclockwise well, then you form two identical trefoils on top of each other. This is also known as a granny knot. But when you go clockwise around the loop, then you get mirror imaged This is also known as a square knot, and it doesn't loosen as easily. So we should all be tying clockwise around the loop. Most of us aren't. I mean, I'm not, usually. I normally do it like this. A simple overhand knot The bow line knot, the most common knot for boating or just holding things And any knot tied without using the ends, also known as in the bite, that is just an unknot. So a slipknot is an example of an unknot. In 2007, researchers Dorian conducted 3,415 trials of to study how knots form in the real world. They ended up creating 120 some as complicated as 11 crossings. They found that longer agitation time led to a higher chance of knotting. Longer string did as well, except this probability decreased once the string was put in a smaller box, which restrained its motion. So if you want to keep from knotting in your pocket where you can't adjust string then your best bet is to confine them to as small a space as possible. Raymer and Smith also proposed a model for real world knot formation. A series of loops are first formed when a string is placed into a container. Then when it's agitated, a free end of the string gets woven up and down through the loops, braiding itself into them to form knots. And let's see, a knot. So coiling up your wires is actually setting because you're forming a bunch of loops for a loose end to braid So instead, what you want to whether by using a small box DNA increases its and you can do the same with your wires. I just double it up like this, and then I twist from the middle. And this is going to Now, this is naturally going to want to sort of coil in on itself and it's going to look but all you have to do is take the opposite ends of and there's no tangles, no knots. Their study won an Ig Nobel Prize. It has been cited in studies and even linked to an Apple Knot theory began as a and for the next century, it was a standalone field of math propelled by nothing more But in recent years, it's Today, knot theory is a theory of everything to material science to chemotherapy. In 1889, Kelvin gave to the British Institution about his failed atomic theory of knots. &quot;I am afraid I must end &quot;by saying that the &quot;in the way of forming anything &quot;that we cannot even imagine a finger-post &quot;pointing to a way that leads &quot;But this time next year, &quot;this time 10 years, &quot;this time 100 years, &quot;I cannot doubt &quot;but that these things which &quot;will be no mysteries at all, &quot;that the scales will fall from our eyes, &quot;that we shall learn to look &quot;when that which is now a difficulty &quot;will be the only common sense &quot;and intelligible way of Knot theory is a perfect example of how knowledge in one area can become a tool to From learning how to tell a knot theorists have built all the way up to discovering brand new proteins. If you want a quick and easy way to build out your own mental toolkit, you should absolutely check brilliant.org. Brilliant is the best way to in math, data science, They even have a where you can apply to folding protein chains. With Brilliant, you just set your goal and they'll design the to help you reach it, equipping you with professional Want to harness the tools Brilliant's newest course is the best place to get them. The course has everything you to start building your There is no coding required. You'll learn easily to slice compare distributions and like Bayes' theorem, all while working with You'll learn to answer questions like which airlines have the and how much more unruly passengers have gotten since the pandemic. Data skills are absolutely necessary to navigate our world today. And Brilliant is the Beyond their data courses, Brilliant also has a all of it highly visual, interactive, and incredibly easy to understand. It's more than just a learning platform., it's your path to understanding the world of math, data and computer science. By learning on Brilliant, you'll always be one step ahead as technology and the modern To try everything Brilliant for a full 30 days, visit brilliant.org/veritasium. I will put that link and the first 200 of you to sign up will get 20% off Brilliant's So I want to thank Brilliant and I want to thank you for watching.