- So this is shima aji coming from Oita. We're going to break this and then we'll sear it with a little bit of binchotan charcoal, just keep it nice and raw you can kind of taste the fat of the fish. - We built this restaurant the quality of the products are. - This month has been like the and this is definitely like Like, you can see the fat right there. Looks like the top of a rib-eye. (upbeat music) - We have the Japanese wood charcoal, the binchotan, right in the fire. We get it hot as we can and then we sear that straight and it kind of just like Regardless of everything the idea originated with, we in the world. Predominantly, Japan holds that category. (upbeat music) Jont's a 16-seat on all the luxury ingredients of Japan cooked over a wood fire. Bresca's a French bistro. It's like our take on bistronomy. - So it's 10:00 AM, We're going to get the fire lit so we can help out the Get a little bit of beets over the fire smoking throughout the day. So for us, the fire is the kind of the focal point of the food up here. So pretty much every throughout the day, we cook whether it's here in the prep day or like during service a la minute. Now that the fire's started, we're going to go downstairs. A lot of our seafood orders so we're going to start look at what we got for today, make sure that the quality's right there. So first thing we're going through, we're going to start with the sea urchin. This is how they mark the They'll go through, they have like an expert So this is the number So super, super tasty, Unboxing all this really we're that nothing got beat up in the shipping. It's the guaranteed 36 like, from Toyosu to here. (upbeat music) This is channel rockfish, or kinki. This is coming from Hokkaido. This is definitely one of You can talk to any chef that really works with Japanese seafood, they can definitely tell you After I go through these, and we're going to pull out what we need for today and we're With 32 guests, if we're it should take us no less than an hour to fabricate the whole fish. - There's nothing easy of those small fish. Like we can get like 40, - Take the eyeballs out from getting overly slide your finger through, - Such a process, like down what you need for a service. But then there's like the started to dry age of like gutting it, knocking out - And then like we'll take that down to the Dry Ager in a little bit. - It's not only like it's expensive like cost of time. - So we're in the basement where we store all of our mise en place throughout the day. We're down here at the fish Dry Ager. We also have a meat Dry Ager with pork a little bit Our menu's 75% seafood and of age from as much as like four days, to as much as two weeks, depending on the fat content. So really it's just kind of picking and choosing, trial and and a half years has So we're going to go ahead, off with our channel rockfish, the kinki. These guys have been so we're looking at four days right now. It really allows us to like And with the fat content on these fish it kind of almost fries over the fire a little bit later. We need all three of but really we just want to of the fish so we're on the ice at a time. Because we're on the third floor, it means a lot of running Keeps you pretty fit, hopefully. (upbeat music) So we'll be here for a little while like breaking these fish. It usually takes about of the pin bones and then and try to find any scales we have. It's like these fish are so crazy that like you know you break down two, and that's like the fat It's insane. Like you can see this is all out of the fish. - One of these small kinki is - Like even when we buy with the guys through like, kinki is the highest Like they send you like crying emojis 'cause they're just like to you at the pricepoint that you want it. It's like, no, like, get and that's fine. - They're pretty much like the opposite of giving you what you want. They let us know where we're This is the most expensive Like, you have to enjoy because nobody wants to buy this shit. It's so expensive. But like then when people blows their mind. They're just like, You're like, I'm like, I told you. It's like the wagyu of the ocean, man. It's crazy. Yeah. (upbeat music) - So Kyle's just unpacking our beef here. This is the order for the whole building for This is our Japanese wagyu rib caps coming from the Gunma Prefecture, and then you also have Japanese short rib. This is coming from the you kind get to see two So with the two restaurants more buying power. Obviously when you commit the we can try to get a better price point. - Everything's rolling You know the guys are just prepping, Evan's knocking out some caviar mise. Brandon's working on some of the canapes with the braised lamb neck. And then we just received some pork though from Autumn Olives Farms. It's been dry aged for about three weeks. So we're going to go down to Bresca and start breaking those down so we can split 'em up - How are you doing chef? - Good, how are you? - Good You see everybody on the stairs. That's how you know when going up and down the stairs. Every floor is activated every day or like the five days a week that we're open from like 7:00 AM until 1:00 AM. Part of the reason we're able to offer the experiences they're in the same building, right? I think if they were would both logistically cost A second-story restaurant from a first-story restaurant of the rent and things like that. And now we're down at Bresca. What we'll do is we'll Downstairs will use probably 80% of it. Upstairs will take the first six bones off and then we'll throw that for like 45 to 90 days. They'll grill that over the wood fire and serve it upstairs as well. Yeah, so we knock the tenderloin off from the backside, here. Pork is something we love to work with here in both restaurants. We get in the whole back Downstairs you know we're and the tenderloins, kind confit them in pork fat. The meat is crazy dark for pork. Yeah. Adam's knocking down some They're going to work that onto crudo. Chef Kam has that Aussie sirloin. They have like a lot more mise en place to place down here, that's for sure. (upbeat music) I'm going to take this in the Dry Ager and then Kam's off this loin. - So when we're breaking it for up here, we're just kind of rolling it cleaning the loin up, and then we'll have it (upbeat music) - Like we always just mature the meat for as long as possible. Sometimes we'll take the hams, we're working on those right now. We have over 200 days of age on them. - So this is going to be our sawara, Spanish mackerel caught in southern Japan. The only thing we have to do is we'll wipe out the chest cavity. We'll make a small cut of the tail that we can't Tying it around the bone allows us to not stress the flesh too much. (upbeat music) - Each fish gives us about two days. So we'll break the side and then we'll bring it and hopefully by the the next fish will be ready. I'm just going to pull out the We're going to go ahead - Yeah, the first that the guests are going There's like three That's one of them. By aging at 14 days we just We'll char the skin really, really nicely or like the fat, if you will. And then we just leave and then we serve that (upbeat music) Like I'm sure there's probably Yeah, some rendered going to get rolling for tonight. There's duck everywhere in this building, like it's ridiculous. We're going to start rolling on some duck processing for the day. So we're going to grab We go through a shit load of duck. So, we inventory about 220 This is a Bresca duck being whole cavity. The Jont ducks are in Jont ducks age separately. Larger duck, so we need like I'm going to pick out the ducks for Daniel today and 'cause he likes to pick (laughing) - So this is Daniel. He works meat roast here at Jont. Right now, he's starting our duck process. This is kind of one of our things that is a signature on our menu. - We're trying to like get rid of this fat cap right which is an instrument that basically pokes all these holes into the fat. (tool clicking) You want to be gentle in want to go too deep, otherwise (tool clicking) So, need to be conscious. - We used to take an and we used to poke holes over and over and over and over again. - Like I can tell you right now, this is going to be a hard duck to render. - Daniel's like a scientist, man. He does like everything methodically. - The same movement every day, for consistency reasons and little bit of superstition. To change the style took me six months. Like a tennis player right? They always use the same racket. - He like talks to the - I like this job a lot and that's for sure. So now it goes in the So you can tell after seven minutes how much fat we rendered already. And that's just the beginning. So they're going to chill in the freezer and then we are going - So at 1:00 PM we start where all the dough that got mised out, portioned, up and the team gathers around, and then we roll our bread So we do pretty much one per two guests. So we'll look at the books, see about how many We only roll the day of, so it's fresh. It's proofed that day, baked that day. And then during service, we brush it with what we we call &quot;brush fat.&quot; Just an aromatic fat that, of Maldon salt on as well. It goes with everyone's main course. - Bread, bread, let's go! (man whistling) - It's 2:30. We're through rolling bread like finish up our projects. We're going to do another scrub down. Tyler's breaking down the Bresca ducks. So, same ducks that we use but we kind of use the upstairs to render in the rationale and then cool 'em down, and then what he'll do before service, come in, hand-render, and as guests start to roll through the doors. (upbeat music) So this is the guy that's I'm just going to pull out a over the wood fire. Depending on when you dine, the proteins that are like are like what you're going These things are gnarly to like no moisture left, you know, you're like cutting a brick. We'll carve away a lot of before serving it. We'll split this down like this muscle right here. I'll peel the skin. Once we kind of break this down and wrap it in its own fat again, these are the the muscles as like the main course (upbeat music) - First guest in 30. (cooks acknowledging) So, right now we're finishing the last little touches. Prep is done, the pass is set up and and ready to feed some people. It's 4:15, we just got We're setting up for service right now. Last thing to prep for the final render on the ducks. Usually we do three to four We are doing the last render stage. So we went in the oven we're working it in the cast iron pan. Kind of take out a little So that one's going to hang out. He's going to put 'em They're going to hang out. First guest, five minutes. - Daniel's doing his It's gotta be a certain isn't going to cook correctly. - I always put the new log on the side as a support so I keep the calorie with me. - I'm starting off with a four course. Awesome, let's do it. - Walking in, two four going two fluke, two pierogi, - [All] Oui! (intense music) - Upstairs, it starts with canapes and then rolls into like, plated crudos, and always some sort of And then you know, it moves into like grilled fish like, vegetables and broths and things of that nature to break up Then we finish on like - That's the final rendering If I press towards the skin, I notice that we still have some fat to render, so I'm going to like hang it and you will see like and that's my final render. - I always say like, we're not the most avant-garde restaurant. That's not our intention. The idea is to be the most driven restaurant that we can be. (upbeat music) Find the best ingredients and to our ability, cook it a hundred percent (upbeat music) We're used to like a watered in the United States. That's our focus, like is to like showcase, help something really can be or is. So we just wrapped up the so Daniel's getting the fire putting some more calories - Thank you so much. It's been great by spending - Rest of the team's going to reset. We're going to get cleaned down. The guests are going to of the tasting menu And then this is usually the and check on Bresca Are you going to cool off? What are you going to do? You're going to take your shirt - Yeah, I have to in the blast freezer. I'm going to get some water for sure. (laughing) (receipt clicking) - So down here tonight, we have a few large parties out there. We have 14, that's super busy right now. Like peak hour, 7:30. It's a little bit noisier down here. You know, you don't have so, they get into it a little You can have a really good time here. It's like a lot of adrenaline, you know. So I was saying we gotta get a- we gotta get a picture and then send it to Daniel how much better your duck That's like the philosophy, if you will, of like what we're trying to do. Trying to just continue quality really is, you know. - Hey, Tyler, how long on that pork? - I think it's part of our job of food/dining culture? If we can like educate or help their purest form and like the quality of what they really can be, it helps change the food - Can someone go give Tyler hands getting scallops down here? We gotta go. - I mean it's long game, right? Like it's not going to happen overnight. Quality over everything. It's like something we (dramatic music) We want quality over everything. (dramatic music)