Op. 9. The three Nocturnes under this opus number (B flat minor; E flat major, B major), dedicated to Mme. Camille Pleyel, were completed in 1831 and published in 1833. No. I in B flat minor is sensuous and dreamy, with long, arching phrases and the characteristic arpeggiated bass figurations that set the pattern for many of the subsequent Nocturnes. No. 2 in E flat, one of the most popular Nocturnes, reflects the influence of the salon but also features some striking chromatic modulations. No. 3 in B major is a long piece and difficult to keep from sounding episodic, but with its suggestively winding theme and agitato middle section, it is one of the most rewarding. Op. 15. There are three Nocturnes in this group (F major; F sharp major; G minor), all dedicated to the pianist/composer friend of Chopin's, Ferdinand Hiller. Although this set of three was published in 1834, the first two were completed in 1831 and the third in 1833. No. I in F major begins with utter simplicity, but is interrupted by an extended, turbulent episode in F minor. No, 2 in F sharp major owes its singing character to the influence of Bellini, who Chopin admired greatly. At the same time, its highly embellished lines give pianists ample opportunity to display pearly finger work, which is why this piece is popular with audiences and pianists alike. No. 3 in G minor is highly unconventional. It is almost stark in its simplicity, with a bare bass line and long-held notes in the melody. It concludes on a chorale-like section, marked religioso, without returning to the opening theme. Op. 27. The two Nocturnes (C sharp minor; D flat major) in this opus group, dedicated to Madame la Comtesse d'Apponyi (wife of the Austrian ambassador), were both completed in 1835 and published in 1836. The C sharp minor Nocturne is regarded by many experts as Chopin's greatest. Extremely intense in a highly personal way, it expresses anguish through the dissonance of the E sharp against the tonality of C sharp minor. The piu mosso section builds up to a climax in octaves and powerful, rapid chords, following which the despairing mood of the opening returns. The D flat Nocturne once again features a Bellini-like vocal line over a wide-stretched bass figuration. Chopin utilizes subtle yet imaginative harmonic touches to avoid any impression of monotony. Op. 32. The two Nocturnes (B major; A flat major) in this group, dedicated to &quot;Madame la Baronesse de Billing,&quot; one of Chopin's pupils, were completed and published in 1837. No. I in B major is tender, perhaps even excessively sentimental. Its modulations and harmonic scheme, however, reflect the work of a creative giant. Always popular, this Nocturne ends with a mysterious fantasy-like coda. No. 2 in A flat is familiar to ballet-goers as the Nocturne in Les Sylphides. It is mysterious and ethereal in its quiet, flowing character, with a delicate, quirky piu agitato middle section. Op. 37. The two Nocturnes in this opus (G minor; G major) were, respectively, completed in 1838 and 1839 and both were published in 1840. The usual dedications are absent. No. I in G minor is similar to the earlier G minor Nocturne in its simplicity and in the appearance of a chorale-like section. No. 2 in G major is a superb piece; charming and with richly harmonized passage work in thirds and sixths cascading over the keyboard. It is also not meant for amateurs as it is rather difficult to perform. Op. 48. This opus number yet again bears two Nocturnes (C minor; F sharp minor). Composed in 1841 and published in 1842, they are dedicated to Laure Duperre, the daughter of a French admiral. No. I in C minor is one of the more epic Nocturnes composed by Chopin. Its mezza voce opening, with its subtle tension, creates a sense of anticipation and leads to the section marked poco piu lento, which builds to a fierce octave crescendo. The opening theme returns and the work concludes on a pianissimo ending. No. 2 in F sharp minor is more salon-like. It features an attractive melodic line that suggests a sense of longing, which is interrupted by a declamatory middle section. The piece ends on a mysterious chain of trills and rapid upward scale. Op. 55. There are two Nocturnes in Op. 55 (F minor; E flat major). Composed in 1843 and published in 1844, they are dedicated to &quot;Mademoiselle J.W. Stirling.&quot; No. 1 in F minor, a fairly popular Nocturne, follows the pattern of most of these pieces -- outer sections of eloquent melodic simplicity with a contrasting, turbulent, middle section. No. 2 in E flat is a rarely performed work, yet it too has its fascination in its chromatic harmonies and inner-voice writing. Op. 62. The two Nocturnes in this opus (B major; E major), composed and published in 1846, are dedicated to &quot;Mademoiselle R. de Konneritz,&quot; a pupil of Chopin. No. 1 in B major is highly idiomatic Chopin and well worth knowing, even if it is not one of the more popular Nocturnes, for it is pianistically very effective. Luxuriously written, the work's trademark is a series of elaborate trills in one section. No. 2 in E major, a beautiful work which is regarded by Chopin lovers to be one of the most personal of the Nocturnes, is highlighted by unexpected, indeed unprepared, modulations. These two Nocturnes were the last ones published by Chopin while he was still alive. Op. 72, No. 1. There is but one Nocturne (in E minor) in this opus group (The other works belonging to Op. 72 are the Ecossaises and the Funeral March in C minor). Composed in 1827 , early in Chopin's career, it was published after his death. The E minor Nocturne, pretty and pleasing, is patterned after the Nocturnes of the Irish composer John Field in its treatment and structure. Op. posthumous. The Nocturne in C sharp minor was written in 1830 and published in 1875. Chopin never intended for it to be published and it does not appear in present-day editions of the Nocturnes (except the new Paderewski edition). It is a brief study of his Piano Concerto No. 2 in F minor, and quotes material that can be heard in the concerto. This piece can best be described as charming and graceful in the manner of Chopin's early period. END