My loneliness is killing me And I - Hey, I'm Maggie Rogers, a game of song association with Elle. I'll be given a word, to sing or rap that word in a song. So I've seen a couple of episodes, and people tend to do But before we get into that, you can check out my new record, Surrender, which is out now. (lips trilling) Booty. (clock ticking) Cause your body's so bootylicious (bell dings) I don't think you're Destiny's Child, forever. Wonderland. (clock ticking) Obviously, &quot;Your Body is a Wonderland,&quot; but I actually can't think Your body is a Wonderland (bell dings) (Maggie scat singing) (chuckles) Sorry, John. Want. If you want-want (bell dings) Then you want it By me. Check it out. There's a song on this new record called &quot;Begging For Rain.&quot; To me, it's like the of my songwriting to this day. And the production was so fun. We recorded it at Electric Lady. Every time I play it, it and it just feels really close to home. The more you wait, the more you break The longer that it takes to undo All the knots that you've been tying On cherry stems and You work all day to find religion And end up standing in your kitchen Wondering 'bout the I'm a firefighter and I can't stop it They fan the flames And leave you standing Begging for rain River. (clock ticking) I wish I had a river (bell dings) I made my baby cry I don't even know if those but that is &quot;River&quot; by Joni Mitchell. Last time I heard somebody it was Harry Styles covering it in Joni Mitchell's living and that is what I'm going to think about every time I ever hear that song again. Dance. (clock ticking) Just dance It'll be okay Doo-doo-doo-dun, just dance Lady Gaga. But so many more. Ooh, I wanna dance (bell dings) I wanna feel the heat with somebody Yeah, I wanna dance with somebody With somebody who loves me Whitney! Criminal. (clock ticking) You get hit by You've been nun-nun A smooth criminal Mm-Mm mm-mm But what's-- Okay, so that's Michael Jackson, but Fiona Apple has a song too. I can-- I've been a bad bad girl Na-Na-Na-Na-Na I'm like, where is the Na-Na-Na-Na-Na 'Cause what I need is a good defense And I'm feeling like a criminal (bell dings) And I need to be Na By the one I sinned against Na-Na-Na-Na-Na-Na Okay, clearly lyrics That's &quot;Criminal&quot; by Fiona Apple. Or part of it. Bad. (clock ticking) That would be a good one. I'm the bad guy, duh Doo-doot doot-doo-doo-doo-doo Doot-doot doot-doo-doo-doo-doo Shout out to Billie and Finn. Alaska. (clock ticking) That's not even, like-- I was walking Oh wait, actually, I never (buzzer buzzing) What am I missing here? Does anyone know a song Happy. (clock ticking) Okay. Because I'm happy Clap along if you feel Like that's what you've gotta do But also, did you see &quot;Sorry to everyone for that song.&quot; I mean, it's a classic. Pharrell just has so many other hits. He actually just created the If we're gonna play a Pharrell song, there's so many other ones than that one. But, also, shout out to his number one. Falling. (clock ticking) I keep on falling (bell dings) And out of love with you Sometimes, I love you Sometimes you make me blue Man, Alicia Keys was one of my She's the best. There are so many songs that made me fall in love with music. But I have this really specific memory with the song &quot;Karma&quot; I always loved Alicia Keys growing up because of the way that with pop music, and I just think that she What goes around comes around What goes up must come down 'Cause I'm trying Desiring to come back to me Gravity. (clock ticking) One more time. There's another John Mayer Oh. Gravity Is working against me Oh, gravity, won't you bring me down Better. (clock ticking) 'Cause I just miss you a better man I think that's Little Big Town, but written by T. Swift. Holla. Better? I feel like there's so many songs. I mean, I feel like I use the word better in, like, every song. I feel like there's so-- I mean I have a song called &quot;Better.&quot; Better, better better, better, better Okay, this is a song off my first E.P. And apparently I have a thing for just repeating one like want-want or better, It's all about the mantra. My new record, well, it's called Surrender, and I think surrender sometimes can be almost a little bit of a complicated word because it means giving up. But for me it's about giving in, and it's a really empowering feeling. I think during the pandemic, I just felt so numb a lot of the time. And to me, this record is really about giving into emotion and feeling at this sort of sense of feral joy that takes over your entire body. To me, that form of joy or pleasure is the greatest way of being alive and sometimes can even Anaconda. (clock ticking) My Anaconda don't something, something Na-Na some na something na-na-na Is that Sir Mix-a-Lot? Baby. (clock ticking) (sighing) Hmm. You're so baby Mm hmm You're so baby Mm hmm Dun-Na-Na-Na-Na-Na-Ah Classic slow dance song. Obviously, Justin Bieber. Baby, baby, baby, ooh Oh yeah. Hit me, baby, one more time My loneliness is killing me And I I must confess, I still believe Still believe There's so many. So many baby songs. I make music for myself (chuckles), which is maybe a funny thing to say, but I always believed that can be the most universal. And in that way, music is (gentle music) I actually did so much better which is cool. Yeah, of course I would play this again!