The best cottage garden plants are pretty, they they're wildlife friendly, and above all they grow from The Middle-Sized Garden YouTube channel and garden plants from gardens I've visited. like Tim Pilgrim has in this contemporary cottage patchwork of flowers. Either is fine. There is a cottage garden? The idea was that cottages and easily. So they might for instance have taken garden. And the plants were mainly not just of them, you might use cottage garden plants and of course flowers just simply to cheer one up is a good thing - if you're thinking of a cottage your wildlife the best possible chance. However in native plants, because we have unexpected weather warm spring, or perhaps a very late warm autumn. native plants maybe have stopped flowering, invasive) are a very useful source of nectar and but certainly start with native plants for asters. Now renamed in some cases symphyotrichum, all around the world. They are native to the are asters that are native to Europe and also And they come in beautiful pinks and blues and and interest. Perhaps the most classic cottage course it's got a beautiful fragrance, and it's with a bit of a warning. Once again there are there are honeysuckles native to Asia, and there them - the Asian ones for example - can be very what kind of a honeysuckle you're planting before is that some of them are very vigorous, and they spend a lot of time clipping them back and back be. One of the classic cottage garden flowers and the seed can survive really very cold winters. before it germinates. An annual is a plant that And of course the common poppy or papaver rhoeas you've had the soil disturbed. For example when pretty much as no-dig, the following summer I it stands for the First World War, because poppies because they'd been dug up by tanks and trenches. found two bees in one of my poppies - so they're but also some sort of pretty purples and at the different varieties. Another cottage garden the only reason not to have catmint is that it it's drought resistant, it's deer resistant, it's flowers for a long time - really it's just And it comes in white and lilac and blue. Quite rather than lavender, because it's a very similar Although it has to be said that actually lavender doesn't like getting its feet wet. Another really deer resistant plant is the globe thistle or and quite frankly they are indestructible, and the sculptural interest, and a nice gray foliage to hardly any care. The seed heads will be eaten by collapse, and then you can clear it away and new Another plant that no cottage garden will be confused between hardy geraniums and pelargoniums. garden centers, but they're very tender, they in a very hot climate. And they're usually in geranium can tolerate some really cold areas. And different varieties. And some of them like my Anne flowers kind of roam all through your border. And and there are even hardy geraniums for dry shade. for months and literally the only care they ever quite often they'll even bring out another set I've mentioned have been really easy care and low really pretty, really fragrant, but they do need example that sweet peas are easy to grow. but you do pretty much have to be attending to you constantly have to deadhead them to keep you'll need to support them. And actually and that's because so few of the gardens I says something. Another plant that needs a little wonderful gorgeous spikes of color - is the lupin. but most of them are treated as annuals. And like you'll need to protect them from slugs and and then you'll need to deadhead them and clear other gorgeous spikes of cottage garden flowers - they're so worth it, but just don't think that I would say tulips are higher maintenance than year after year as well as other bulbs do. When tulips, he said that actually you get your best and even if they do come back they won't be as there are lots of different kinds of tulips dotted because I've chosen a lovely group of tulips, they've looked gorgeous, and the next year one clump of tulips a bit nearby. So what you can of tulips over the years. And I think it looks but it's not really the effect I was going for. it has to be said that daffodils are so easy care there'll definitely be one near you, they're very and pollen in the early months when quite a lot of You can grow daffodils in the lawn for a very you can't mow the lawn until 6 weeks after the because you just mow the lawn six weeks later, perfectionist. Alliums have these lovely pom-pom easy to grow. And once again quite a few of them purple sensation about 15 years ago, and I think So it's almost a question of just having to dig much. Of course that is a bit of a problem with will I be overrun? On the whole I think it's them. And it's certainly cheaper. So it's just a rabbits, squirrels and voles don't apparently family. So taking that almost no plant can be probably a good one if you want a cottage garden another very pretty flower. And although they they're being grown in gardens now quite a lot. with alstroemeria grower Ben Cross which I'll put grow. The only thing you have to remember about have to pull them like rhubarb - you pull the stem on to flower later. So what are the best cottage very easy care, and I would put lavender quite It won't grow if you have very damp soggy soil, I mean English lavender. I had great clumps of years ago - maybe 14 years ago - and it just went lots of different kinds of bee and butterfly in the sparrows would eat the seeds. And then we'd in frost over winter. Then there are roses. Now roses can be high maintenance - it slightly want perfect roses with no black spot, then you if you're prepared to grow roses in amongst lots with salvias for example can help with black spot fertilizer at the beginning of the year, and plants. But otherwise many of them are very double blooms are never as good for pollinators scent, and what would a cottage garden be without months of interest is hydrangeas. They're a plant over the years. There's lots of different kinds of some are native to Europe, some are native to all of them are wildlife friendly. The mophead have pollen or nectar. But the other ones are. come out usually either mid or late summer, and they become sculptural. And very often they're they look fabulous in frost. So that's six months after - you just have to prune them once a year. easily in the description below. So, cottage maintenance because they live in your garden for 3 to do to them - apart from sometimes deadhead about every 3 or four years, if they've grown and then you replant it, which gives you plants easy care plant. It doesn't like very wet or boggy And it's deer resilient - which is great. It's some slug attacks, but usually it won't stop you be the perennial - quite short-lived perennial - pollinators, the birds love the seed heads, and another very long season of interest. And also see through it to the plants behind. So although border looking too crowded or blocking other I have seen in garden after garden after garden, or stonecrop. Sedum autumn joy and sedum matrona pollinators. They're quite low growing - they're do flower for quite a long time. And they're the wrong place about 12 years ago, and it was it didn't die. And when I dug it up and moved it Hylotelephium can get nibbled by slugs. It's got slugs love. But actually one of mine was nibbled and I put it in a vase. And when I suddenly I saw that the stem had grown little roots. So I happy making another plant. And really, you can't I think every cottage garden needs some annuals grow from seed flower and die in one year, famous cottage garden biennial is a foxglove. And are once again adored by bees. They're very sort where they want to in my garden. They self-seed - them in particular places, but they seem to say about where we want to grow&quot;. So I pretty much let first big spire off after it's finished flowering, so it can give you interest for quite a long so if you have small children that are likely and chew your plants, then don't grow foxgloves. can be annuals or biennials. And I think a bit tried to plant hollyhocks in one part of the And then a fabulous Hollyhocks has sprung up got that gorgeous kind of floral cottage garden for quite a long period of time is cleome. Now they're quite tall plants. But you don't really getting taller and taller over the summer. Filling always look good, and once again very pollinator cosmos. Cosmos is a lovely simple flower, and lemon cosmos. There's frilly cosmoses. Cosmos are They do like a sunny spot, or at least one with you keep deadheading them, they will go on and looked at a cottage garden in Australia which the said was a cottage garden mashup. So he was mixing to create that same informal loose colourful you could have in any cottage garden, whether and that's salvia. They're very long flowering. and I struggle to keep my salvias over winter, will be fine. But salvias are so colourful and so at them. And so what about trees for a cottage could grow a climber up it, maybe a honeysuckle, And of course above all they have fruit trees. I can't think of anything better than having a in the spring, and then you've got the little crab apple jelly. You can't eat them yourself, try perhaps a fruit tree which is perhaps not very or even a mulberry or something like that - commercially very widely, and then you can keep more about what cottage garden style actually Cottage Garden Style, and how to achieve it&quot;