Welcome back to the Gentleman's Gazette, Today, we turn back the clock again to I know &quot;The Great Gatsby&quot; makes pink striped suits. And we'll take a look if it The Gentleman's Gazette theme song The Roaring Twenties are remembered high fashion, party time, and then, of course, this: [People rhythmically dancing to upbeat music] Many people cite this decade as a start of the the suit, as you know it today started blossoming bye-bye to the stuffy, Edwardian, cutaway fashions freedom, celebration, and frivolity ensued, and young People simply wanted to dress up again. fashion was rapidly evolving; not just for women, but also for men. Fashion had become a means to have to wear tones of green, brown, and khaki. just say, &quot;This is who I am. This is how I feel. And they wearing? Let's explore it together. But, first, style and clothes. Maybe you've watched a virally fashion. While the production crew was excellent, Maybe you've watched some gangster movies all that men wore back then were pinstripe [Raphael coughs] [Please stand by] [Raphael clears throat] No, they didn't really. Instead, we promise you we'll different countries have different climates and on the US and bring in comparisons to Europe. from 1910 to 1920, you know the drill. If not, it's much more closely to the body to accentuate the much closer to a body coat than a modern suit. and it had about two to three buttons. Sometimes inspired by morning coats. The most popular were a lot heavier than what you could get today was usually lined in silk, if you could afford it, something a bit more sturdy in your arms because Also, because you sweat a little bit more on the in that part. For country wear, tweed was really and linen suits. For the time, the fabrics were slightly today, they were still heavy weights. In the 19-teens that had a bit more of a cutaway front. But, as the more in line with what you know from a modern suit. definitely more square than before. Frankly, if you modern business suit, don't you think? As for windowpanes, and stripes were all around. explains their omnipresence in gangster movies. styles and the clothes in gangster movies, check you can definitely see a higher buttoning point, the waist was overall much higher. By the late 20s, lapels, which makes it look more like suits or will recognize their subtle differences. the pockets, the vents, the lengths, and the fabric, the street would likely not spot them. If you're Aaron White's Youtube channel. We'll link to it in at about three buttons that were spaced much more spaced today. However, there was no cuff stitch that Unlike today, most jackets back then had no vents because put the hand in your pocket, your bum might have fabric choices of the decade. They're often darker, colors, which create this rich depth that is harder longer mandatory in 1920s and you could see men especially true during the summer months. Now, lower. Remember in the 19-teens they were cut really high. more the shirt front. The bottom of the waistcoat also led to leaving the bottom button of the waistcoat habit, check out this piece in our website. not have caught on to that fashion quad yet and if men wore vests, they were matching the suit so also find odd vests, which just create a slightly waistcoats and vests, especially odd ones, because completely different. And if you want to learn Next up, let's talk about trousers, pants, the belt had become more popular, taking over from in the UK and most of Europe, suspenders were still in the proper position. Nevertheless, belts were the trouser fashion was still heavily influenced and tapered towards the bottom. But, remember, they started seeing single pleats in pants. The idea Because, as you know, when you have a nice crease less pronounced. And the idea was, by having longer point of time, which makes everything look they were neither very slim nor very tall. one and one and a half inches . Towards the little bigger at the bottom but were still quite in trousers and a much wider leg. Now, this is a The vintage enthusiasts among you may be familiar with wearing excessively wide trousers starting in pictures of impressively baggy Oxford bags out inches. This all continued thereafter into the I've seen was 43 inches. I mean, at that point, you [Raphael wearing a kilt while playing Now, another popular style of the 1920s was a was their very slim silhouette, very high waist. the idea to give you the ultimate hourglass marketed to young men and worn by young men. that was pretty much in line with the hourglass this really suppressed shape. Sometimes, they even you accentuate the waist even more. In terms of the 1910s. Overall, you could still find detachable gentlemen would prefer them. Younger men would an attached one. Cuff-wise, you had single for cufflinks, and single barrel cuffs that were starched bib fronts that were attachable to shirts, to be in previous decades. While in Europe, you in the US, men preferred a shirt with an attached and it was overall a more casual shirt. But, it was compared to the previous decade. Even for shirt where everything was attached. So, we focus in ones, were not as high as in previous decades. they were heavily starched and polished. These of the same fabric as the body, and they had longer there was no stability from the starch. Men still clip became really popular. It held the collar tips it was just a fashionable look. You could also find they were made in the same fabric as the shirt or like Boardwalk Empire, you see that a lot of men I think it's a very stylish look that is different interested in it, we have a really good selection boots were slightly less popular in 1920 than they fewer horses, and fewer manure on the streets, so it or, for that matter, spectators. Two-tone shoes were but it's not like every man wore them. If you just look We wear Oxfords!&quot; But, if you go into the details, had typically a more rounded shape. Also, the broguing little neater, and vintage shoes, overall, were a of shoes the average men wore was a lot higher still wear dress shoes, there were no real sneakers We didn't have this globalized economy quite yet, Even though rubber sole shoes date back Converse All-Stars were invented during the 1920s. All-Stars as an all-purpose shoe today. But, back then, supposed to be more flexible in the ankle and the sport. Most men would not have worn those shoes to headwear, the 1920s were still quite interesting Hat styles hadn't changed much since the Edwardian era and the bowler hat was still worn. Of course, more so in of the decade was definitely the fedora. If you or any other hat, we got you covered. While most as being quite formally dressed, at the time, snap rim because the felt was soft and not stiff you could adjust the creases, and that made that's a lot and not casual at all. Even though typically had narrower or shorter brims and higher wide and they were worn by regular working-class photographs from the 1920s, you can see that because a man individually shaped it. It wasn't that way. You just made the hat and its particular And, of course, we have a full-fledged guide &quot;Peaky Blinders,&quot; not all flat caps were eight piece the pancake-like one piece flat cap, which means wider and more like beret than what the same It came in many styles including tweed, wool, linen, cotton, Prince of Wales check, Donegal tweeds, and so forth. Now, during the Edwardian and Victorian [Squeaky horror music playing over footage During World War I, toxic and lethal gas was used whisker was often in the way of putting on your Similarly to 2021, having a beard really impedes soldiers were told to shave out their beards, So, when men returned from the war and settled used to just shave every day and not have any a little mustache. But, you didn't see much hair on by older men at the time. Now, let's have a One of them that's not really popular anymore is for practical or utilitarian purposes. In the 20s, It truly was a fashion item and, of course, it had others were stiff, and you can find some with knives, and so forth. Regarding pocket squares, introduction of silk pocket squares to a broader just a plain white cotton or linen squares. When it came to timepieces, the pocket watch but wristwatches definitely gained ground And it there was not a natural spot for their pocket In terms of eyewear, the invention of celluloid say, during the Edwardian era. Celluloid originated in 1856. While it was first used in movie film, it was later or horn products. That meant that even the looking style without having to shell out the big It was really much like the trend of gold-filled gold piece, but it was a lot more affordable still find wireframe glasses, sometimes even frames that were fully made from celluloid itself. the imitation celluloid glasses that looked like ties and bow ties were still popular in the 1920s. had gotten slightly bigger. Also, because the collar tie a tie yourself. In a previous decade, you pre-tied ties because it was harder to put them it was easy-peasy. The style of the tie changed with a solid width or just a slightly more to tie them. Overall, ties looked less like a the tie you know today. That being said, ties back had no lining or very lightly lined, and they were ties often also had unfinished edges on the blade. became somewhat more popular or introduced into and interesting. In the 20s, there was also a boom about it, it made sense. There was a void being left of a club or having some association, you felt formal clothing? In terms of morning wear, but it definitely declined in popularity. The full events or special eventsn not for a regular in style in previous decades. You saw morning coats you saw more one or two-button morning coats. or maybe glen check pants. Now, the striped pants In terms of evening wear, White Tie was Whereas, Black Tie was quite a bit more popular. you would often see the Black Tie ensemble being with White Tie, and likewise, the Marcella starched collar, popularized by the Prince of Wales, a lot of fun and if you like the style, I suggest a German series. And it's not all accurate but it the stuff you might have already seen. Now, I wish was from the 1920s, but it's not. I'm a little original pieces that fit me today. Because of that, It consists of a white shirt with a barrel button silk, a tennis sweater in off-white with dark navy I mean, without the jacket, people play tennis in and it has stripes in green and yellow. It's very white flannel trousers. In fact, they're more So, I have two pleats, which again is not quite 1920s. My cuffs are maybe a little bigger than the 1920s, full-brogue derby shoes. I put in contrasting My socks are orange and blue from And you can find them in our shop here, just like green and off-white micro patterns, trying to tie Last but not least, I have a flat cap, Donegal tweed that picks up the oranges and The Gentleman's Gazette theme song