- Okay, so let's talk about the physics of dead grandmothers. So I was sitting in a taxi and when I told him I'm a can I ask you a question And so I thought, &quot;Well, okay, go ahead.&quot; And he said, &quot;A shaman told me that my grandmother is still alive because of quantum mechanics. Is this right?&quot; I had to pause for a moment and after thinking about this for a while, I came to the conclusion But the thing is, it's got nothing to do It's actually got something to do with Einstein's theory It's all about the reality of time. It's all about the question this now, which we experience ourselves, whether this is of fundamental importance. There are a lot of things, like those big existential that physics can actually My name is Sabine Hossenfelder. I'm a physicist and research fellow at the Frankfurt Institute and I have a book that's A Scientist's Guide to Before Einstein, time was We all shared the same moment of time; the same moment of now But then Einstein came and he said, &quot;Well, it's not that simple.&quot; And the major reason for this is that the speed of light is finite, and nothing can go faster it's the same for all observers. And this sounds like a but it has a truly which is fairly easy If you ask yourself whether you know if the screen in front of you naiveLy we would say, I mean, I'm holding it my hand, or I see it directly in front of me.&quot; But, we just learned that and nothing can go faster So everything that you experience, you see it as it was a tiny little amount of time in the past. So how do you know that What do you even mean by &quot;now?&quot; So this is the problem that comes up in Einstein's theory And Einstein tried to construct a notion of &quot;now&quot; in this new So, imagine you're looking straight ahead, and there's a train going say, from the left to the right. And on the train, there's your friend, and let's call her Alice. Now, let's also imagine that at the exact moment that Alice, who's standing in the middle of the train, is looking straight at you, there are light flashes going And the question is: Did these light flashes Now, if you want to answer this question that's pretty straightforward. There are those light flashes going off. They both come from sources that are the So of course you see But how does the same thing The light flashes go off, but while the light travels towards one of the light so that one path of the light is shorter and So from Alice's perspective, of the train arrives earlier So she would say, &quot;No, they did not happen And now the important point Neither of them is right, They both have an equally And what do we conclude from this? Well, we conclude from this that there is no unambiguous notion to define what happens now: It depends on the observer. So they're both right. And if you follow this then the outcome is that every moment could be now for someone. And that includes all and it also includes all So this impossibility to define one notion of now that we all agree on is called the 'relativity of simultaneity.' And it's super important because it tells us that fundamentally, this experience of now that So the mathematical framework with to make sense of this of the speed of light and the is that he combined space with time to one common entity, And more specifically, because the present moment has this entire spacetime exists and it's become known In the block universe, the past, the present, and the future exists in the same way. There's just no way that you can single out one So, the past in which your the same way as this present moment. Now, there's another that people who have sadly deceased do in some sense still exist- and it's because of the way of nature that we know work. They don't destroy information. The only thing that they do is that they rearrange and everything that's in the Universe; they just give you the in different places with But you can apply those And this means if you had a you can in principle always So in this sense, information It can, however, become impossible to retrieve. There are two cases that where information might get destroyed that have so far not been resolved: One of them is the information We don't actually know And the other one is the in quantum mechanics, which is also an unresolved problem. So if someone you knew dies, that you can no longer And that's because the information that made up their into very subtle correlations which become entangled with And slowly, slowly they spread into radiation that disperses and eventually throughout But this is a very anthropomorphic thing: It's very tied to our own existence, and who knows what's going to happen in a billion years or something Maybe there'll be some which will also be spread out, and this information will So, I know it sounds crazy, but for all we know about the about Einstein's theories, and about the way that it seems that our existence the passage of time. There is something timeless that makes up us and everything And I think that's a really that we get directly from studying the foundations of physics. And I have to admit that I personally find it really hard to It's one way to look at the maths and say, &quot;Okay, this is how it works.&quot; These are the conclusions that we draw from our observations, and the mathematics It's another thing entirely to make sense of this in your everyday life. But as a physicist, I trust the process of from using the scientific method, and so I take this seriously.