- [Narrator] The hijacking grabs the world's attention. - This morning off the coast of Somalia. - [Narrator] But when four pirates kidnap the American captain they get more than they bargained for. A top secret force of train for one purpose. Locate and destroy terrorists (dramatic music) These men are unknown to the public, but not their enemies. (guns firing) Among the most deadly killers they are classified in The hijacking of the merchant is their story. (gun firing) And for one brief moment, (gun firing) The day begins like any other. Around the world, Easter and many people are For most, it's business as usual. In the Horn of Africa, for the Somali pirate gangs marauding the sea lanes hijacking foreign merchant ships, and holding their crews for ransom. Their success fuels worth tens of millions When armed pirates the merchant vessel Maersk Alabama, off the coast of Somalia, the vessel is identified The news captures the - A high seas, high stakes drama is... - This morning off the coast of Somalia. - An American cargo ship - [Narrator] Details are unclear. Reports are that the Maersk Alabama, a U.S. flagged cargo ship, is under attack by approximately 250 miles The crew forces the pirates off the ship, but not before they the American captain, and escape in one of the ship's motorized lifeboats. - [Man] There was four Somali pirates with AK-47s, but now in a lifeboat. Yeah, they got him hostage. - [Narrator] The story of the kidnapping ignites a political firestorm. - The media especially, cable television goes 24/7 Somali pirates. - We are bringing to bear a number of our assets, including... - [Peter] This put an on the Obama administration, with pundits out there demanding action, and the administration has - And bring the pirates to justice. - Piracy off the coast of Somalia, both in the Gulf of Aden and currently account for almost two thirds of attacks on commercial It's a very sophisticated enterprise that generates incredible especially in a country where the average family lives - Typically, pirates make A lot of the pirates are young. Most of the time between 15, 16, and 25. They come from fishing villages, and they have seen that piracy has become a big and lucrative business. - [Narrator] Inside the Pentagon, Colonel Rudy Atallah immediately contacts sources in Somalia, hoping to learn the pirates' identities. - We were huddling, trying to figure out who the pirates were. We were gonna take every measure and use every tool in our toolbox to take care of Captain Phillips and make sure that he arrived home safely. - [Narrator] The pirates are identified as Somali teenagers. The oldest 19, the youngest 17. - The four pirates that were very young, one of them already a couple of successful The other three were inexperienced, believed to be on their All this came from the source who was talking directly to the elders. - [Narrator] The kidnappers in the ship's lifeboat, and with their hostage, Kidnappers or terrorists, their intentions remain unclear. - The biggest concern was that the pirates may have some affiliation to a group called Al-Shabaab, which was on our terrorism list, or potentially they would to this Al-Shabaab. Either way, we did not want - [Narrator] The safety of the hostage being held by armed Muslims requires the White House for a peaceful resolution, with a rescue attack which - The political pressures are pulling in opposite directions. On one hand, there's the on the other hand, one doesn't want to look like one is shooting - [Narrator] When American naval warships finally intercept the kidnappers at sea, the pirates use their hostage as a shield against the surrounding ships. - You have four or five guys with a few AK-47s, and maybe an RPG, and they go up against a and we have a standoff - [Narrator] Rudy Atallah's contacts with Somali tribal of the pirates and their clans. - I discovered the names and then also got the names of the elders from the sub clan where they came from. We transmitted their from the Bainbridge, and that got the pirates to slow down what they were doing. At that point, they got extremely nervous. - [Narrator] The pirates The Bainbridge and her flotilla, unable to use their superior firepower until they get approval from Washington, resort to aggressive physical maneuvers to cutoff the lifeboat's - [Rudy] They try to make Water cannons were used to kind of push it back out to sea. - [Man] In the window, in the window. - [Rudy] Bump the hull, getting close to the shoreline. (catchy music) - [Narrator] Meanwhile, half a world away, a secret operation SEAL team goes about its daily regimen of training on a classified military base far from the glare of public scrutiny. - These are trained, highly and I say that without but this is what they're trained for. (guns firing) - These guys are the most experienced, and I would say the most (guns firing) - These guys are doing stuff that would shock and blow people's minds if they actually knew what's going on overseas and around the world in the global war on terror. (guns firing) - [Narrator] These are and they provide a detailed glimpse of how all SEALs prepare for war. The particular effectiveness of SEAL Teams lies in their gathering even the most tightly held information on their enemies, and then launching a (guns firing) In Iraq, SEAL Team snipers help decimate the leadership in Al-Qaeda, leaving them demoralized and ineffective. - These are top notch snipers. Many of them have in their record. (gun fires) - You have teams of people are dying all over the place, and they don't know what's happening. From a psychological it's devastating. (gun fires) (intense music) (guns firing) - One of the things that we've done in our fight against terrorism has been to take out There are only so many who can make the terrorist machine work. You eliminate those cogs, and (guns firing) - [Narrator] The effectiveness makes the sniper the weapon of choice for any hostage rescue (guns firing) - You have one of the most effective tools in a sniper that the battlefield commander has in his war chest. And with one bullet, - [Narrator] One shot, one kill, means reducing possible collateral damage among innocent civilian populations, a modern political necessity, as low intensity conflicts in the headlines, as - As surgical in the more precise, and I think proper sense of that term, and it's increasingly of national policy. - [Newscaster] Breaking news. - It's all over the media. There's a hostage situation, and it's gonna elevate things politically. Who's gonna go deal with this situation while it's a maritime environment? In the SEAL Teams, we own - [Narrator] The outcome on the Bainbridge depends of SEAL snipers. One error could kill the hostage, and set off an inevitable political and media search for the guilty. The SEALs call this type of &quot;Who Shot Jack?&quot; - You know, it's not a F18 launching a guided missile strike. You have to produce a kill shot, and you can't miss. So it's as simple as, a shot goes right, you're a hero, if it doesn't (gun fires) - [Narrator] Days after the pirates attack the merchant vessel, Maersk Alabama, Naval Special Warfare alerts including the team commanding officer. Within hours, they depart on a flight for a high altitude, night parachute drop into the Gulf of Aden, and a rendezvous with the U.S.S. Bainbridge. - You have a group of that are on pagers, they get recalled, they have to show up get briefed, have all their get on a plane, and then where they're gonna link up. - [Narrator] The flurry of is nothing new for the seals. Their mood is relaxed. - This is a situation at the top of the food chain. It was on the water, you know, you got Navy SEALs, you have snipers, you can't get a better They're right where You know, I wouldn't be surprised if they back flipped out of the airplane on their way in. - The pirates on the lifeboat, they don't have night vision. So, you just come in, use set up on the ship, and you know, when the sun rises, they have no idea that - [Narrator] Once on board the Bainbridge, the SEALs take up firing positions while the naval ships force the lifeboat away from shore. It's a calculated risk. No one knows the Captain's or what the pirates will do next. The team doesn't wait long for an answer. (guns firing) - [Man] Shots fired, shots fired! - The pirates were very scared. They were afraid for their lives, but at the same time, they They were very much focused on their goal, and irrational in their behavior. - [Narrator] But then, the The kidnappers allow the Bainbridge to take them under bow, believing they are headed to shore. Unbeknownst to the pirates, the Bainbrdige tows them back out to sea. The on board SEAL snipers now are less than 40 yards away. Later, mixed in with other sailors, the SEALs go alongside the lifeboat to deliver water and observe The pirates are showing signs of physical and psychological stress. - This hostage situation has been going on for several days, the situation's escalating. Once it elevates to a certain point, you have to do something about it. - [Narrator] Unreported by the media, the pirate's elders over the ship's loudspeakers, asking the pirates to give up. The leader abruptly surrenders. Once on board the Bainbridge, he advises the three remaining hijackers to give themselves up as well. - Unfortunately, they said no, that their lives were in the hands of God. If they're gonna reach shore, it was up to God, if not, then they were prepared to die. When I relayed this information back to the elders, the reply back was, &quot;We wash our hands from this situation.&quot; - [Narrator] SEAL snipers since they arrived, but clearance to fire is withheld. The leadership aboard the Bainbridge is increasingly concerned and the lack of a clear Time is running out. - Of course, these guys get impatient. They're waiting to hear from the top down if they have the go ahead, and you have that attack dog so he can do his job. - To be fair to the administration, all these factors, the the fallout from failure There was a certain paralysis at the top. - [Narrator] Every SEAL but with no order, they - Any time you're in that situation, it's gonna produce frustration. These guys are there to do their job, and get it done, and go home. - [Narrator] As the evening approaches, the contrast between the could not be more different. Inside the lifeboat, three seasick pirates are oblivious to their imminent danger and anxious to ransom their hostage. Onboard the Bainbridge, SEAL Team snipers maintain their poise. - Everyone thinks, okay, to kill someone, they're they're gonna be haircuts buzzed tight, uniform, every like that, but they're there to perform. They're not there to be popular, and they're not there to fit any image that the public might put on them. They're there purely to perform, and that's what they're gonna do. But it was probably a very - Put them on a Navy ship where they've got hot coffee, Redbull, essentially it's like a Club Med vacation for these snipers, and the pirates are sitting ducks, I mean it's like shooting fish - It doesn't matter who we have a dial, and that where I'm talking to you right now, and you're at 10, where from the back of a ship. - [Narrator] Snipers monitor the situation by glassing the target, observing their subjects Their first technical concern is the fact that they both are moving. - There's probably some movement because they're on an ocean, but then they also have a target ship, which is unpredictable. If someone steps on the or weight shifts, you can move the boat a and these guys are taking so the chances of these guys taking all the terrorists down at the same time, the odds would be incredible, but they put the odds in their favor because of all their training. - [Narrator] SEAL thousands of rounds per week under every imaginable combat scenario. (guns firing) (yelling) For experienced senior enlisted men, the success of this operation is not a matter of if, but when. (guns firing) - This is just another day at the office, you know, you're talking very low threat. You're not going into a village in the middle of the night, and have a lot of unknown factors. These guys are going to a known location, they know the threat, they know the number of pirates on board, and they have a mission to do. - It's kind of like bringing a to play a bunch of high They're gonna come in and do their thing because they're so well trained compared to everyone else. - [Narrator] All SEAL training involves what is termed &quot;mental management&quot;. Years of instruction and preparation that allows each sniper to keep himself in emotional balance, and - When guys are put in that situation, we have trained it into It's just like watching Cirque Du Soleil, where you're seeing this They've done it so many They're not thinking they're just going through that they've been through (gun fires) - [Narrator] This high speed film demonstrates how performance is the rule, rather than the exception From 400 yards, a 50 caliber round penetrates a steel safe. (gun fires) Seconds later, a second through the same hole. - You have to become a master of yourself and your environment. And by being able to do that, you're able to do things that other people see as impossible. - [Narrator] All SEALs are volunteers, and candidates are selected after being tested for and a warrior's discipline. - We don't just train or to stalk. These guys are like renaissance men. They're well educated, they know what's going on. They understand why they're and it's a greater good. - There's three types There's sheep, sheepdogs, and wolves. Wolves are the psychopaths of the world, they're the terrorists, the criminals, the rapists that prey on the sheep. They're driven by violence and fear. (guns firing) (yelling) Then you have the sheepdogs, and the sheepdogs look and generally the sheep by the presence of sheepdogs because it reminds them that (guns firing) The defining difference is the fact that sheepdogs are driven to protect the flock, to protect the sheep. (guns firing) - [Narrator] SEAL Teams do and shun publicity. (guns firing) - We're used to blending in, and just becoming part We come in quietly and professionally, we do our thing, people and then we're gone. - [Narrator] 70 years of training to fight provides the ultimate insight into the SEAL combat philosophy. Like the sea, SEALs are unpredictable, and can kill without hesitation. - I once heard a general tell me one of his problems he is SEALs don't stick to the plan. And I kind of smirked, or I chuckled a little because as a SEAL, that's our advantage. It's not that we're cowboys but the whole intent, is to be somewhere that - It's gonna take a it does take someone The mindset is key, and BUD/S is there to forge the mindset. (chanting) (guns firing) - [Narrator] All SEALs Basic Underwater It's a 30 week course that with physical and emotional stress to test a man's commitment and ability to function under pain. - You're in my program. You're not in your own program. Do you understand me, Sloan? - Boo yah, sir, Captain. - Eight, nine, 30! - I'm talking to you, Francis. - EI, start the count. - What are you gonna do to make sure that you're not gonna talk anymore? Do I have to isolate you for the rest of the class? - Negative, sir, Captain. - Do I have to pour sand down your mouth? - I showed up at BUD/S, that I am today. And I had question as to my capability what I could and couldn't do, what was possible, and And going through the training, I now have a complete confidence that if it's humanly - I don't want to hear no whining and moaning and groaning, boys. Get it up! Get it up! - You know, you always hear You need to really be able in a certain way where you can ignore just all the pain and discomfort. If you can turn that off, then you're gonna be good in BUD/S, and you're gonna be able to - What's your problem, Mr. Nole? Hell week is simulating combat scenario, and you're failing. We put you in a real situation, you're gonna kill people. You do not want to be a team player, you got not only one thing, but two things wrong, and that's why they're and they are waiting on you, Phillip. Paying the penalty for you. Now, as soon as you're ready, you go ahead and take the time, Phillip. - [Narrator] On average, fail to pass BUD/s training, one of the highest drop out - Need me a winner! - Up! Get it up! Get this boat up! Get it up! - We'll push whatever button I don't want to society is not used to being uncomfortable anymore, but we've become a society of comfort, and there's still men on the Earth who will put their comfort aside, and they base their life on we before me. These guys can put that their target just can't conceive. (guns firing) - [Narrator] After graduating BUD/s, many SEALs apply for A classified, three month course that not everyone passes. - I've had students go and say they'd rather go because we produce such a high to make sure these guys - A SEAL sniper school really than any other I practically had a nervous breakdown going through sniper training. One bad day, and you're on your way back, you're going home, and you have to look all your boys in the face, - [Narrator] The sniper's and a willingness to for hours and maybe days. It's not for everyone. - A Navy SEAL in general, they're gonna operate between reality and fantasy. So they're gonna be in that space that nobody's brain They're not gonna expect us to be up on the hill They're not gonna expect us to be dug in in pure pain. - And we'll do that and others won't. They'll give up. That's what makes a difference between the winners and the losers. - [Narrator] Part of the sniper's job involves hunting his prey. (gun fires) But it's not simply following tracks. (gun fires) It's about setting up the kill. - Stalking for us is a art. It's a natural predatory instinct. We all have it, but it's And basically, what we work to do is take him from a regular man to somebody that goes to any situation, any environment, and make His foreground, his where he is in relationship to his target, so we just completely reinsert - [Narrator] For every sniper, stalking requires knowing to avoid detection. (gun fires) - It's essential that the Navy SEAL sniper master the art of To them, it's a matter of life and death. Right now, I look like a hiker, but I'm gonna go behind this bush and turn myself into a sniper and see if you can find me. Okay, I can see you. But you could only see In just a couple of minutes, I went from hiker to a SEAL What are don't see are there and they have you in their sights. You'd be dead right now, and you would never know what hit you. (catchy music) - [Narrator] Regular SEAL platoons perform different missions. For Special Operations requirements, each candidates undergoes a process of relentless live fire scenarios intended to weed out to function safely in a (gun firing) - A tier one unit has to maintain a constant state of readiness, so they're constantly training and firing a tremendous amount of shots, and typically those guys of readiness and preparation - [Narrator] SEAL snipers and mental toughness, are the obvious choice of a fast deployment, and to the hijacking of the - They don't bring in SEALs to negotiate, they don't bring us in to be fair. They don't bring us in for (gun firing) It's not a self help group. We are there to take back in the favor of America. (gun firing) - [Narrator] For the past four days, the story of Somali pirates kidnapping an American freighter captain makes headlines around the world. Political leaders in Washington continue to search for as four armed Muslim hijackers continue to defy all - One of the things that the is the value that modern democracy places on the individual life. A man holding a gun of any sort to the head of a hostage than a naval vessel as much firepower. - [Narrator] Onboard there is no political apprehension. The SEALs calibrate every pirate movement, every ocean swell. Ready to fire at any moment. But the order to fire doesn't arrive. (tense music) Having run out of fuel, the pirates remain tied to the Bainbridge, unaware their hunters are concealed, watching their every move and waiting. - You have a situation is gonna want to resolve But eventually it gets to a point where, hey, this isn't working, we're not gonna produce a situation here outside of taking these guys out. (gun firing) - [Narrator] Many of the circumstances surrounding the incident remain unclear. But Brandon Webb, a former offers insight as to how multiple snipers might prepare for this situation. - If this is a hostage situation, the shots are very close, it's nighttime, you have these moving And it has to be simultaneous, take out three targets, like cutting the strings of a puppet. - [Narrator] For SEALS, takes more than instinct. It takes practice under - When I train these guys you know, I want to put them in the most critical situations outside of being in theater. Creating a tremendous because you have an where all these guys are - All right, ready? Go! - [Narrator] Eric and Glen Larry, a SEAL platoon commander. They will compete against over a simple stress course. This sort of demonstration of how peer pressure is to overcome any and everything they might encounter in combat. - You know, it's not two rocking ships in the middle of the night. But what you do in training, is you put these guys and then you dial up the pressure on 'em. - [Narrator] Pressure can destroy a man's effectiveness in combat as quickly as any bullet. Lesson one for every SEAL, is expect the unexpected. - So we do that intentionally who has the fortitude to push through those adverse situations - [Narrator] In this test, each competitor is given a rifle he - You know, what these guys don't have and what snipers usually have is a tailored suite of weapons. Each weapon is customized to the distance from their eye to the scope. - Hit. Hit. In this situation, they It's hot, it's dusty. We're putting a lot of so what happens intentionally is we get a lot of dust in the bolt, so the chances that you're gonna get a malfunction is likely, which just adds complexity Hit. - [Narrator] As Webb Adapting in the face is the oldest survival - We all have over a decade so something like this but it's taken years to get to this level. (gun fires) - [Brandon] Hit, time. - [Narrator] Peer pressure cannot be underrated. The fear of losing, of not being the best, or failing your teammates keeps people alive when others might quit. - Did you even count those? - He did seven. Any time we do anything, if it's two guys going it turns into a race, - [Larry] With us, it's life Doesn't matter if it's shooting for real or if it's shooting for competition. We do everything 100%. - Guys don't gravitate to to be second best, so guys are constantly training and trying to one up each other, it's a very competitive environment. (gun fires) - Hit. (gun fires) Hit. (gun fires) - And he's cheating already. - [Narrator] Eric is a As he zeroes in on his targets, his ability to control his breathing reflects an ingrained mental (tense music) (gun fires) - [Brandon] Hit. (gun fires) - No, I don't think so. I didn't miss that one. Are you sure you're Are you sure? - [Narrator] When Eric misses by shooting a target out of sequence, his protest is a sign found in many men who strive to be the very best they can be, and for whom failure - That was good shooting though. - Yeah, thanks. (gun firing) - It just shows you the difference between slowing down a little bit, taking a little bit more time, but he had a very accurate run, he only dropped one shot. I mean, at the end of the day, that's what it comes down to is hitting the target every time. - [Narrator] Glen is a and current expert at Wind Zero. Watching him do his pushups, there can be no doubt he intends to win. But using an unfamiliar (catchy music) - With a scope, your eye is from the front of a scope, so you get what's called vignetting, meaning you have a bunch of black around what is actually and that'll move around depending on where your head is, so getting that cheek to get it and getting it centered so he's getting a good sight picture. - I knocked my pushups out, sprinted up to the car and I just could not I was flailing at trying to get that proper eye relief to the scope, and to eliminate the scope shadow and get a clear sight picture. (catchy music) - [Narrator] This competition but physical stress mixed in and peer pressure are all necessary to make the action of killing (gun firing) - Hit. - 2:47, all hits. - They have to perform and like you saw Glen on the hood of the truck in that stress course, you could tell he's getting but he powered through and then picked up the - How many did you miss? - Two. - No misses. - None? - I think we heard a couple misses. - We heard a miss on that last set. - All hits, two minutes, 47 seconds. - Head shots. It's always a competition. Yeah, we might talk a lot of smack and have a good time, but when it's three, two, one, go. Yeah, we like to win. - That was smooth. - That was fast. - [Narrator] Accuracy may seem obvious, but like everything that goes into a sniper taking his shot, it cannot be taken for granted. In the Alabama incident, the weather and wind conditions could affect a marksman's accuracy. - Okay, go ahead and... As a sniper, you want to control everything that you can control. All your environmental The barometric pressure, you know, the outside temperature, the Because those environmental factors can mean the difference between inches. - It's a matter of taking all the factors that are involved. Deep breath, exhale, respiratory pause, squeeze, squeeze, squeeze, follow through, get ready - Hold on to left target. - Left target. - All right, center for elevation. Give me three minutes left, and send it when you're ready. (gun fires) - [Narrator] Traditional sniper teams operate with two men. The shooter and a spotter, who can assess the and provide adjustments At 100 yards, Webb accounts for the environmental conditions to help Glen zero in his weapon. - We're getting a strong full value wind, left to right at 15 gusting to 30, and then down there at the target, it's left, it's right, it's up, it's down, so to be honest, his job is a lot harder. As the shooter, my job is - [Narrator] Breaking a shot until the weapon fires, which is called a surprise break. - The reason you ask for the shot break is because if I'm telling right in the chest, and he breaks here, and he tells me he breaks I know his dope on the weapon is dead on. (gun fires) Okay, that's dead center. Good shot. (gun fires) - It's like the second that that your gun goes &quot;boom&quot;! You take a mental picture, like a flash goes off in your brain, and you take a picture of exactly where your cross hairs are, and even just a little That feedback to him everything that he needs to adjust as far as wind conditions and bullet path. - [Narrator] The snipers on the Bainbridge will coordinate a common firing solution to optimize their rifles of ballistic and environmental conditions from the Arabian Sea, all without ever firing a shot. (catchy music) - [Brandon] The chronograph the speed of the bullet - [Narrator] Every operational and will affect accuracy. - We tick all the like how hot it is out for the temperature of the bullet itself, and accounted for the barometric pressure, plugged it into the software program, came out with the firing solution. - [Narrator] On the Bainbridge, environmental conditions Because the pirates and the hostage are crammed together in accuracy requires hitting the targets as well as avoiding hitting the hostage. These high speed images of bullet impacts and their low pressure show how the bullet exits moving with full kinetic force, and without deflection. The danger for the snipers after hitting a pirate, and hits Captain Phillips. - Each guy has to be and the bullet path after the exit, where that bullet's going You have to really think about that. - [Narrator] There was another problem. The pirates are moving around, and it's apparent a shot through the plexiglass This means knowing the as well as the hijackers at all times. - You have a guy sitting for most of the time, and these guys are gonna through the plexiglass here, and this guy sitting in this helm position essentially just becomes and is essentially a sitting duck. - [Narrator] Terminal of force and trajectory of and the low pressure That pressure wave is what causes severe muscle and organ collapse The following demonstration of the killing power of newer ammunition and the specialty designs different combat situations require. - Left edge. (gun fires) Call. (gun fires) - The first shot we took on the left clay was with our standard Full Metal Jacket. This impacted over here on the left edge, and you know, if this this wave and this pressure wave is enough to do serious damage, especially on a headshot. (gun fires) So this is the land warfare round, so this is gonna provide with maximum kinetic energy and momentum. (gun fires) And it just melted and disintegrated the entire top half of this - I've never seen anything like that with the special blend. (laughs) - [Narrator] But ammunition is only one of the many factors affecting the success or failure of a sniper's shot. All factors must be considered. The SEALs aboard the Bainbridge - It's a close shot, but it's at night, you have a hostage involved, you have a bobbing The ship would've been semi-stable, but it's still moving around. And then you have all the factors that go into that individual (gun fires) - [Narrator] By late the SEALs are in firing position. The pirates unaware the snipers lurk less than 40 yards away, hidden inside the superstructure ready to shoot. - The pirates have no night vision, so they probably had absolutely no idea that an element was set up like that and waiting for the right opportunity. The right opportunity presents itself when the three pirates then shooters will confirm the hostage is out of the line of fire, and execute a simultaneous This is called a countdown. - We gotta make sure we're all on the same sheet of music right here, 'cause we're about to do - Once that opportunity presents itself, you have a very quick, that has to occur. You know, three, two, one, execute, and the shots are taken, and the targets are neutralized. - [Narrator] The shooting position taken by SEAL snipers is unverified, but the prone position (gun fires) From the stern of the Bainbridge, it's only 40 yards, but there is wind, ship motion, and all to be coordinated In addition, the hostage must - To simulate, put some we put these guys up on a knee, so you know, it's not the but it does add a little more There is movement, the sights - You know, shooting prone and we're all shooting one knee up. We are using rests, so I but the fact is, laying down, shooting off a bipod or a is the most stable. - [Narrator] The biggest and working in a team is adapting to a group dynamic. Left alone, a solo sniper Firing in a coordinated volley, all the snipers must shoot simultaneously. - It's not when they're essentially ready. They have to be prepared, and get themselves ready like that, because they know they're - When we have to go on command, that means we gotta hold and we hold our respiratory while he's counting down, so just that margin of So we all have the mental picture, three, two, one, click for us. He'll be saying execute, but we're gonna think &quot;click&quot;. - [Narrator] Unifying a countdown at sea, at night, on live targets is never easy, even for combat veterans. But this dry fire practice will demonstrate a trigger break, the moment when all three snipers must pull the trigger in unison. A failure to do so might and a threat to the hostage. (tense music) - Another complexity in is that we're all that have different trigger setups that break at different times, and we don't know the weapon, so it's going to take a lot of effort to make sure that we break the shots at the exact same time. - [Narrator] It's called a surprise break, when the trigger squeeze Snipers use the same weapon for years, but learning the gun takes time. - There's a long break on that one. - That one you gotta 'cause I gotta take the slack out, and it goes twice before the shot, and that's what I'm... - [Brandon] Shot in - [Eric] It almost - Yeah. - So you gotta just... - Rub, rub, rub, rub, rub, and then snap. - [Narrator] Waiting to take the shot fatigues even the most experienced sniper. For this reason, SEALs on the Bainbridge constantly rotate their shooters every hour or less to keep them alert. - The difficulty of staying on your gun, having a proper gun position, your cheek on the well of the gun, trigger position, body what happens is, we're human beings. Our biology will start to break down, muscles will get tired, - All right, line's hot, lock and load. All right, make sure Snipers, snipers, this is Echo One. Check in when you have - Sniper One ready. - Sniper Two ready. - Sniper Three ready. - All right, this is Shot in three, two, one... (guns firing) - Oh, that was awful. - [Brandon] Eric! - Eric! - [Brandon] Punishment, do it again. - [Narrator] Eric breaks his shot late. The mistiming may not seem critical, but even a slightly delay could leave a pirate alive and the hostage in danger. - Shot in three, two, one, execute. (guns firing) That's perfect. - [Narrator] Coordinating three individual simultaneous headshots is problematic. Head shots ensure an instant kill, but with the Bainbridge, the lifeboat, and the human targets all the challenge is obvious. - When you look at a headshot, on a human being, the and moves around. Essentially we have basically to simulate a moving head. You can see just standing here that a little bit of wind blowing, how these pumpkins are moving around, and that's really what On top is we put an apple on there, and what we want to demonstrate is just how surgical these guys can be. Snipers, Echo One. I have control. Shot in three, two, one, execute. (guns firing) - If I know that from 75 or 100 yards that I can drill a spinning apple, a head is gonna seem enormous. It's just part of that whole where you're projecting victory before you even enter the battle. (guns firing) - [Narrator] 40 yards separate To trained shooters, the many times larger than an apple. As the pirates continued to rebuff all demands for surrender, they are observed to be growing more threatening towards the hostage. - They're essentially entombed and they're cooped up, they're it's just a matter of time - It's like a lion out in the Serengeti. I mean, all that's sitting out there is a little tiny lamb. (guns firing) - [Narrator] As evening of the kidnapping, all negotiations between the pirates and the American negotiators are over. The pirates reject every even from their own tribal elders. - In their statements, when was that they were putting all their lives into the hands of God. When I relayed this the reply back was, &quot;We wash our hands from this situation.&quot; - They're in a small lifeboat staring at huge U.S. naval vessel, you know, they're like deers - [Narrator] The lifeboat and their American hostage remained secured by a towline tied to the U.S.S. Bainbridge. SEAL Team snipers continue ready to fire, waiting for - What I think must've been was the 18 plus hours they waiting to get green-lighted. - That ambiguity, that tension between whether to shoot or whether to negotiate really isn't there. These guys are trained snipers, and now they're waiting for the signal or authority to do so. - [Narrator] Without clearance to shoot, the snipers must wait. Officials in Washington The White House, the the State Department, and other agencies are and communication, looking at all the possible ramifications. - You get a lot of frustration because you have a guy back in the U.S., sitting behind a desk, making those decisions in that environment before, and then you have actual hey, I've been here 20-30 times, I know there's only one way - [Narrator] Observing toward Captain Phillips, the on scene commander receives permission in the event of danger to the hostage. The pirates' fate is now sealed. The snipers have the advantage The mood among the SEALs - After we exhausted to try to get the pirates to give themselves up, we saw that the situation was getting a little bit dire. - They're going to end this the only way that such a situation can be ended. - On scene commander realizes that okay, there's no way to peacefully resolve this without casualties, make a decision, as soon as the sun goes down, these guys are gonna get taken out. - At that split moment, when you get the green light to shoot, it's like flicking a switch. You just snap in, and Everything falls back to your training and the routine. - [Narrator] Shortly after dark, the pirates present a simultaneous target, and the countdown begins. - [Echo One] Snipers, Check in when you have - [Narrator] A mistake now may cost Captain Phillips his life. (tense music) - There's no second there's no turning off the camera. That guy says &quot;I have that means he has control he has control of the and their career, he's got control of that entire world. - Sniper One, ready. - Sniper Two, ready. - Sniper Three, ready. - [Echo One] All right, this is Echo One, I have control. Shots in three, two, one, execute. (guns firing) - The first people I want they're the superheroes, they're the impossible men and they did the impossible with me. - [Narrator] Seven months later, the Maersk Alabama is attacked but evades capture. The pirates of Somalia and hold them for ransom at a record pace. The majority of SEAL remains classified.