&quot;The green flag is waved...&quot; &quot;All five lights are off...&quot; &quot;And we've got green in Mexico City...&quot; &quot;Green in London!&quot; &quot;Green in Seoul!&quot; &quot;In New York City!&quot; &quot;Hong Kong!&quot; &quot;Berlin!&quot; &quot;I don't believe it! [YAAARRRHHHH!!] So you know all about Formula 1... ...the crazy car racing sport that I love F1. The tech is just and it's part team and part individual my seat... it's the perfect sport. Except one thing: fully electric and the cars that they drive... aren't. gets all of this money and attention is that big cutting edge car tech. Basically, &quot;look how good we that tech ever gets outdated, it loses the point - and now we've reached a tipping point: For years, about banning new gas car sales. But now look at in the US. The entire European Union is planning that owning a car with a tailpipe is going to is just moving on. Which means we just entered a most popular and expensive sports - the one that's rest of us. So what does that future look like? If Or is somebody else going to get there first? Here I am behind the scenes at Formula It's like Formula 1's cool younger sibling and &quot;Formula E, explained.&quot; What you need to know to keep But this story isn't really about a few fancy I don't know how to express how Alright... all this drama started at a dinner at dinner at this restaurant was stacked. First you've and a former member of the European Parliament. European Commissioner for Transport which means And then you have Jean Todt, the president of Casual. The dinner has become kind of a little or electric motor racing... Yeah, I got to interview Alejandro. they talked about how this moment of change Antonio really was explaining how really going to push electrification You might be thinking , &quot;Okay President this, just make the super popular sport that you just swap in electric cars. F1 races have to cover two hours. The batteries for an electric car 11 change the sport itself. But they couldn't really might get mad but because in 2011 most of F1's cars. They didn't want the sport to change. It's a that can't risk threatening what Jean Todt and I looked at each other saying, &quot;FIA should create a formula, an electric They created a brand new championship separate from Formula One... Formula E. This was going going to push forward the technology as fast as to create the future not just of car racing but this new championship could be fully electric, Why is that important? Because for example they will be in conflict with my license. Yeah. The license began when Formula E in 2039, which is four years after the EU and in 2035. Formula One and Formula E have been on a I was writing on this napkin all these ideas of the there on the wall by that table where we had dinner. So you walk out of this dinner What do you do next with that? Okay so imagine you're creating a new sport... you an electric car space program by making I'm imagining during that two-year period you're in a room and you have a whiteboard That's exactly how it is. So we're going to ski trip for example and then we're somewhere and and we start brainstorming... I'll give you one guess what We look at the race almost like a video game... Super Mario Kart! Only for the Formula E kept the basics of Formula 1: Every depending on where they finish. Teams win with most points individually. If you want more details now: If you were Formula E, more exciting? First they changed We wanted to race in city centers, to the show closer to the people, and also electric cars are a solution for I actually got into Formula E was right after I finished my video on Formula the point. These are really easily accessible fan- what else would you do to make these races even You know how you can get a boost by driving over Like... Genius. &quot;Attack Mode&quot; which is a bit like the and you get more energy for four minutes... &quot;Di Grassi now is in attack mode... and through goes Di Grassi into second place!!&quot; That's not even my favorite rule. see that right there? That's a &quot;fan boost.&quot; The &quot;He's got fan boost as well... Lucas Di Grassi of course The audience voting to give drivers Formula E is actually walking this rule back in 2023, them sitting on a ski vacation like thinking If you would do them in Formula 1, people would say racing. Formula E is a lot more flexible on that, I just love how these guys took the real life video game out of it. I mean obviously I got invited to go see the final test of I cannot believe this job is real. The cars over the cars that they used in the very first the improvement of the electric cars that they that you use have improved as well. This is had ever built a car like this before. The problem with Gen 1 is that It was the same problem facing all electric cars... Range. Back in 2014, electric cars could only get and the median was actually way lower. What's deplete the battery, so Formula E cars weren't So here's the solution they came up with... We basically gave two cars to every driver. Just watch this: Here comes driver Lucas Di Grassi for a pit stop, So people thought were completely crazy but four years we raced those cars, we managed to of Generation 2 was it could do twice the distance. Now the one that I'm gonna go see is the Gen 3, the fastest and most powerful electric race car ever built. At the same time Formula E was launching, It was the biggest set of rule changes in a &quot;A new era...&quot; &quot;A technical revolution!&quot; F1 is going hybrid!&quot; Every car would now be powered by a hybrid powertrain with a turbo engine and Don't Alejandro and Formula E have the exclusive They can do hybrid. So my license is all that is purely go 99% electric and one percent fuel but already 50/50 almost. I guess if they could they would Well, it's 5 a.m, I made it to Madrid. I was too excited. That was a mistake. I am in Valencia! Now I just have to get to the Okay I'm like 50% sure I'm in the right place... media center? I was wrong. That's not the right spot. just letting me run around between garages and fascinating... Here it is: Gen 3. The biggest step Formula 1, all Formula E teams have to use the of the same ancillary parts. The team focuses from the battery into speed, namely the rear motor, deliberate. By design, the teams spend their money that the championship deems most important. It's This is the team principle for Jaguar, James And he explained why Gen 3 is such a big deal. So this is a really important time for us. It's so we go from 250 kilowatts to 350 kilowatts a big step up in power. We go from a car which about 850 kilograms. So it's lighter. Going faster is great but only if you can stop. This Gen 3 that could end up in our electric cars in One of the biggest things a lot of people here they actually don't have any rear mechanical for that is that they're using a new braking motors themselves, converting kinetic energy into Not having rear mechanical brakes is a really big got here to Valencia and pre-season testing. There technology that could be a huge step forward not for electric cars that you or I might drive. I who's been with Formula E since the very braking system and he broke it down for me. How does braking actually work on this car, and how is it different from That's a very good question. So if you look at the front, here you have a break. So there is the braking capacity from the car comes from the has by going at 300 kilometers per hour, when you like a power plant, like a windmill, same concept. So you can recuperate up to 80% of And so by doing that you don't need brakes. in history that does not Does that make you nervous No... ...Maybe. No it doesn't. It would make me nervous, No it doesn't. I think if you - I fully trust the team and the technology. We had some scare and then you have only front brakes but In the future this technology will be in your road faster, you drive cleaner, and you charge I love car racing because it's an experiment, And as much as I love Formula 1 today that science project must bring us So if you live in a world in which you sold to the main public, there is a great distance there's still horse racing and it's still popular, but in this case horses are not illegal. Combustion So who will win this fight for the future of cars? Everyone's got an opinion. I think maybe a merger's there to buy Formula E, maybe we buy them who knows... But in the meantime, and in Formula E are hard at work making So there's just one thing left to do: I would just say everyone, if you honestly the quality of the racing and the action You hear that? Watch a race! So now you know more about really gotta get out of pit lane