Closed Captions were added by Moxi Media. The Funny Film presents. Executive Producers: Fang Yinghua, Guo Xuguang. Executive Producers: Wang Pudong, Deng Mengling. Produced by: Guo Xuguang, Deng Mengling. Produced by: Sun Jiahao, Yang Qiming. He Da, Kang Lei, Norman Chui, Gabriel Wong, Gao Guangze, Le Liang. Screenplay by: Cui Dongchen. Directed by: Fang Yinghua. Ziyuan, don't stop. What's going on? Let's see. What the hell is this? A strawman? Where is Ziyuan? Ghost! Run! Your Majesty, Governor of Jiaxing sent a memorial saying Grand Preceptor fell ill. It's been 3 years since Grand Preceptor retired and returned home. Now that he is ill, I should pay him a visit. Your Majesty, I will set out for Tonggu to arrange tonight. Okay. Ghost! Ghost! There is a ghost. Run! There is ghost! A Ghost! Lock down West Moon Building and notify Officer Song. Yes. Officer Song, my husband is dead. Please do him justice. Recently, have you made any enemies? I don't know. I came back after washing clothes by the river, Then I saw him, dead in this room. Could you please give me some water to drink? Please wait a moment. Judging from the pattern of the splashed blood, the killer did this from behind by the left hand. Officer Song, here is your water. Thank you very much. Come inside. Take this person. Officer Song, what are you doing? Because you killed him. There are three indicators. First, your shoes are dry, which proves you didn't go to wash clothes by the river. Second, there aren't any signs indicating struggling on the victim. The single one wound killed him. Therefore, it must have been someone close to him. Third, the left side of the wound on the body is narrow while the right side is wide and deep, indicating the killer is left-handed. Am I right? He was a brute. He deserved it. When he beat me with a wood stick again and again, he should have known he would get this. Even if he had done a million things wrong, you don't have the right to determine his life or death. He didn't deserve to live. Officer Song, bad news. Something happened in West Moon Building. It was really strange. Ziyuan disappeared all of a sudden. Such a pity. It must have been a ghost that did this. Move. Move. Something big must have happened, because Officer Song is here. Sir. The name of the disappeared girl is Ziyuan. In the sight of the customers, she turned into a strawman. This jade was the only thing found at the scene. Officer Song, You are here finally. Ziyuan was the best of our West Moon. I counted on her to maintain our business. Officer, you must help me find her. The Li Residence The carotid artery was swiftly cut by the string. Because the wound was shallow, blood didn't splash. It only dropped on the victim's clothes. Send out all of our men to search for Ziyuan tonight. It cannot be ruled out that Ziyuan is possibly dead. -Go. -Yes. No one is here? Sir, we were on the street patrolling when this happened. I found someone suspicious. When I was about to make an arrest, that person turned into a strawman. Officer, I've seen this robe before. If I remember correctly, this belongs to Councilor Li's son. He often comes to West Moon. and he is close to Ziyuan. Tonight, did he come? Yes. But Mr. Li usually stays in Ziyuan's room until the next morning. Today he stayed for a while and left. It looked like he was in a hurry. Han Fang, send someone to wait outside Li's residence. If there is anything unusual, report at once. Yes. Officer Song. Come in. Grand Censor is here. Invite him to the main hall now. Yes. His Majesty heard that Grand Preceptor fell ill. He misses his teacher very much. Three days later, he will come to Tonggu to visit. This will be a rare, huge event in Tonggu. Officer Song, as a minister, if you serve His Majesty well this time, think about it. there will be endless rewards. Ah. Yes. A huge event indeed. I will do my best on behalf of my county to cooperate with you, Grand Censor Ding. Officer Song, you seem a bit tired. Is there anything wrong? Grand Censor, a strange case happened last night in Tonggu. I think there must be conspiracy. Up until now, there isn't any lead. What happened? Can you tell me? Last night, a woman... Sir. Grand Censor Ding. Sir, we searched all night and found this sachet. It has the smell as that jade. It should belong to Ziyuan. Grand Censor Ding, please excuse me. This case is really urgent. Han Fang, you keep Grand Censor Ding company. Yes. Officer Song has come to my humble residence. Please forgive me for not having welcomed you at the door. Councilor Li, I came without being invited because I have something to ask about. Oh? Officer Song, please sit and tell me in detail. -Please. -Please. Councilor Li, last night, Something happened to West Moon's Ziyuan and she disappeared. I found your son's clothes near West Moon. I also found Ziyuan's belongings near your residence. I wonder if you are aware of this. My son never listens to me and always lingers around brothels. But I believe he doesn't have the guts to harm anyone. It must have been someone malicious who is competing with my son for a girl's favor that framed him. Where is you son now? He caught a cold and has been in bed recently. I'm afraid he will infect you. I really can't let that happen. What about this? When my son gets better, I will definitely take him to the Court and let you to ask him clearly. What do you think? That can work. Thank you, Officer. Officer Song. Who are you? Just a common citizen in Tonggu. I have the lead that you want. What do you mean? Don't look at me like that. I'm helping myself, not you. It wouldn't do any harm to see if this is an enemy or a friend. Are you sure this is the way? Last night when the thing happened at West Moon, someone saw Mr. Li riding a horse to get out of town nervously. So I sneaked in Li's residence to check and found he was really not in the house. This morning I asked the people who live nearby, They say they heard the stamp of horse hoofs passing through this road. This is the way to the capital. What did he want to do? Oh, right. You said you were helping yourself. What does it mean? Officer Song, I... Last night Ziyuan turned into a strawman and went missing. Han Fang found another strawman that was supposed to be Mr. Li near West Moon. So, this strawman is...? -Untie the rope. -Yes. You said he rode a horse to get out of town last night. Yes. Is this Mr. Li's horse? I'm not sure. But I know his master must be around. Are you scared of dead people? The umbrella. Judging from the appearance of the body, he was poisoned. Bring the oil paper and some soap water. What is the oil paper for? If he was poisoned, in the respiratory tract there must remain some poisonous gas. Cover his face with the oil paper in case in the poisonous gas goes out. The water soap and the silver needle can help us to know. The color of the needle didn't change. The cause of death isn't poison. From the appearance, his bones are intact, and his organs are all there. Bring the rice vinegar. What is the rice vinegar for? There is spring onion in rice vinegar. Cover the body with oil paper and rice vinegar. If there is internal injury, it will show. I'm letting the body speak. Grand Preceptor, His Majesty heard you fell ill. He has set out from Linan to visit. In two days, he will arrive in Tonggu. I am only a common citizen now. How can I bother His Majesty? Officer Song, Councilor Li is here. Come in. My son! You were fine yesterday. Why are we apart now between life and death? My son! Councilor Li, I'm sorry for your loss. I heard that last night your son went out of town in a hurry. Do you know why? Officer, please let me take my son home to bury him. Your son's death is very odd. It's definitely not an accident. Before the case is solved, the body needs to stay here. The man is dead. He should be buried and rest in peace. Officer Song, You let my son lie in this cold morgue. Have you considered how I feel? I need to find some clues from the body and do your son justice. Isn't that what you hope for? Of course, that's what I hope for. Even if I must chase the murderer all over the world, I will avenge my son! Don't make a scene. Your son's death is now considered a murder. This is not just your family's matter. Councilor Li, take a look at your son first. This... My son. Now, do you still want to take your son home? I suppose someone killed Ziyuan on purpose and placed the evidence that points to your son before killing him. The whole thing was made to look like a full circle. And the blame was transferred to the strawman. The strawman? Councilor Li, please go home now. Since I am an officer in Tonggu, I will definitely find out the cause of your son's death and do you justice. Please. I have a feeling that he knows something. He seems to have something to say but unable to say it. Keep an eye on him. Yes. Keep an eye on him. Yes. Sachets. Sachets for sale. Guess. Head. It has to be the head. I think it's the head, too. Oh, you both think it's the head. Watch closely. Here. Hey. I won again, kids. The bun is my now. This old man is really bad. He tricks the kids for their stuff. Aren't you ashamed of yourself, old man? Hey, it's you again. Old man, you still hold it against me that I won you last time? Do you want another match? If you win this time, there will be plenty of buns for you. Huh? -You promise? -Yes. The game is on. Tail. -I'm going to show you. -OK. Watch closely. What? This is not mine. A bet is a bet. Huh. Anyway, I have nothing to lose. I don't want your belongings this time. The officer here has a question. I made a bet with him that no one in this world knows the answer. No way. There is nothing in the world that I don't know. Officer Song, ask him. Mister, do you know what this is? I've seen it somewhere. Hey, try to remember. Oh, I remember. This is a blood-thirsty insect. Stop eating. Tell us about it. If you don't let me eat enough food, I won't be able to remember certain things. The blood-thirsty insects are very fierce. They are from the western areas. They like to live in the grass and woods. When they smell blood, they will go for it at once and dry the blood out of the living body. The grass and woods? Give me the records of people who entered in the past 15 days. Does it mean the killer is in the Li Residence? We can't act rashly and alert the enemy. We need to know the killer's motive. My lord, why are we leaving Tonggu? Don't ask anything. Just do as what I said. But... But what about Xuaner? He is still in the morgue. If we don't leave soon, we will all be dead. My Xuaner... My lady? My lady? Hey, Officer Song, what are you here for? I want to ask you something. Do you know anything about Councilor Li's family matters? Officer Song, you asked something beyond Hongxiu's knowledge. This is a difficult question for me. OK. It seems you don't have many customers today. The best of our girls, Ziyuan, is still missing. And the rumor has it that Mr. Li died in the hands of a strawman. My West Moon has become the scariest place in Tonggu County. Who dares to come now? Right. Okay. If you want your business to be like this forever, you can hold it back and do not tell me anything. Hey, Officer Song. I will tell you. It is said that Councilor Li came to Tonggu County twenty years ago. He was a poor boy when he first came here and he begged for food on the streets. Then somehow, his business went really well. Do Councilor Li and his son have any enemies? Councilor Li usually stays at home. He is an honest man. He can't have made any enemies. Mr. Li is a playboy, but he is not bad. I've never heard him involved in any fight. It's just... Just what? It is said that the relationship between the father and the son wasn't good. Sometimes when Mr. Li came to have a drink, he would complain about Councilor Li. Now people are saying that Mr. Li and Ziyuan conspired to get Councilor Li's property, and that when Councilor Li found out, he killed them. Notify Officer Song. Yes. Constable Han. It's me. Why are you here? What's going on here in the Li Residence? If you have anything to say, let's go and tell Officer Song. Stop. Sir. What happened? I was watching this place when I found her trespassing in the middle of the night. I followed her in and then here we are. I suspect She has something to do with everything that is going on. Besides, she stays close to you. She must have some intentions. I'm here to find out who I am. That's why I've been following the case with you. Officer Song, I was abandoned when I was a kid. I've only got this jade on me. And I found Mr. Li had one that is exactly the same as mine. Strawmen again. Does this mean the Li family have all been murdered? What's the killer's purpose? Han Fang, go to the stable now. See if there are plenty of straws. Yes. Remember. Don't touch them. I'm going to check the other rooms. Sir, there are indeed plenty of straws in the stable. That's right. The killer used blood-thirsty insects that clang to the straws to murder people. Blood-thirsty insects? Yes. I noticed that several days ago, the Li Residence had a large number of straws enter the city. I thought the killer was someone from the Li Residence. But today, the Li family were all murdered. It appears the killer is someone else. I checked all the rooms. There are no bodies. There isn't any sign of a mess, either. Let's go. Wait. Look. The arrangement of objects here seems out of order. But in fact, there is an order. It's like the starting of horse in a chess game. Linger, move the futon in the front a step forward. Han Fang, move the vase on the left two steps forward. Is it wrong? Both hard and soft, the starting of horse. Rapidly all of a sudden, and slowing down. The soldier behind is at service. A fight of wisdom and bravery to tell the wise man from the fool. I understand now. The ancestral memorials of the Yu family. First Mr. Li was murdered. Then the strawman. And now the Yu family's ancestral memorials. What secret did the Li family hide? Secret? Let's have a look and find out. Linger, don't touch it. Officer Song... No. Go. I wasn't burned to death. You set a fire that burned down a house. Tomorrow His Majesty will arrive in Tonggu County. Haven't you made enough trouble? Grand Censor Ding, it's my dereliction of duty this time. But, the people in Tonggu County all remain unharmed. You are missing the point here. It's not a matter of whether there are inflicted people. If His Majesty hears about this, you and I will both lose our jobs. Grand Censor Ding, I am a humble servant to Tonggu County. I'm responsible for all the people in Tonggu County. It's my primary duty. What case is more important than His Majesty? When His Majesty leaves Tonggu County, you will have plenty of time to investigate your case. Officer Song, as an official of the empire, you should tell the important from the unimportant. Officer Song, Officer Song. I know the truth behind the strawman case. Stop. The strawman has come to me for revenge. Tell Officer Song now. Help me! Please wait here. Murder! Run! Murder! The strawman murdered a man! Run! Councilor Li, I know you and your son died because of the blood-thirsty insects, but how did these insects get into your body? What's their connection with the strawman? I really have no clue. No. I must have neglected some details. Officer Song. Don't bother me. Grand Censor Ding, Officer Song is probably stressed out recently. Please pardon him. He is stressed out? What about me? I'm carrying His Majesty's instructions in my head. From now on, all of you need to listen to me. Grand Censor Ding, I'm afraid this is not appropriate. The case hasn't been solved yet. All of you, go out and tell all the people in Tonggu County that no one should talk about the strawman case. Otherwise, he will be held accountable. including you guys. I repeat this again. When His Majesty leaves Tonggu County, you will have plenty of time to solve the case. Why are you still standing here? Grand Censor Ding, please reconsider. How dare you? From today, anyone who talks about the strawman case will get whipped. The strawman is a ghost. The Li family must have done something bad which invited the ghost. Go. Go. Forgive me, constables. Linger. Who is it? Who? It's me. Officer Song, you nearly scared me to death. Why are you here? I saw the lights were on, so I came in to check. I want to feel the identity of the dead and try to find some clues. Why aren't you asleep? Oh. I went to exercise. What exercise did you do in middle of the night? I practiced the crossbow. What? The crossbow. Do it again. Stop. I understand now. Linger, take the incense burner and come with me. What is the incense burner for? The incense burner. &quot;Dan&quot; I know how the killer did the murders now. How? First, the wound was cut by something extremely thin. The smell of blood enticed the blood-thirsty insects to dive into the victim's body to consume the blood and the flesh. Then, the scene was staged as if a strawman took the life. in order to deceive people. Do you have any idea who the killer is? Let's go to Han Fang. These people don't have the ability to design such a fine method of killing. Oh. It was a waste of time. I thought I could find my parents through the Li family. I didn't know I would get involved in such an odd case. Hey, what you said reminds me of something. We've been focusing on the Li family. Twenty years ago, the Yu family... Twenty years ago... It is said that Councilor Li came to Tonggu County twenty years ago. He was a poor boy when he first came here and he begged for food on the streets. Then somehow, his business went really well. That character &quot;Dan&quot;, could it be half of &quot;Sheng&quot;? Sir, are you referring to Lord Sheng from twenty years ago? Yes. Twenty years ago, Lord Sheng tried to usurp the throne but failed. His whole family were wiped out, including his wife from the Yu family. The Li family designed the secret chamber to honor the memorials of the Yu family. Is it because the Li family was actually the Yu family? So the murders of the Li family were because their identity was known. Speculation. These are all speculations. I'm going to take another look at the Yu family's genealogy. There might be some clues. Catch the thief! Officer Song, has anything gone missing? The crucial evidence, the Yu family's genealogy. It's you again. Hand it out. Geographical Maps of Mountains and Rivers It's a distraction. Linger, chase after that person. I'm going to protect Officer Song. Officer Song, what did you mean by &quot;the Yu family's genealogy&quot;? Grand Censor, I found the Yu family's genealogy and memorials in the Li Residence. So I think the strawman case must be related to Lord Sheng's case twenty years ago. What? Lord Sheng's case? Yes. Officer Song, How many heads do you have? His Majesty will arrive in Tonggu County tomorrow morning. Now you are talking about Lord Sheng's case with me? Since you and I are both officials of this empire, I can ignore what you just said. If you mention the strawman case one more time, I will have you removed from office. Grand Censor Ding, this is a crowded place. His Majesty said you didn't have to salute to him. Oh. I will lead the way for His Majesty. Tonggu County You are awake. I understand now. I know it. What do you know? Linger, I know who is behind this. Last night in my room, his footprints gave him out. Oh. What's the matter with you? The Li family have been in Tonggu County for twenty years. And I am twenty years old. The Li family has a jade. I have a same one. But the Li family honored the Yu family's memorials. So is my last name Li or Yu? Linger, It doesn't matter whether your last name is Li or Yu. You are just you. What you are looking for isn't your identity. It's your true self. Some things should be cut off. Have His Majesty entered the city? Oh, Grand Censor Ding and Constable Han took the services. Okay. Let's go to Ding Guangli's room. Grand Censor Ding's room? Officer Song, it's not here. Search carefully. I'm going to check there. It's not there, either. Linger, Have you ever heard of a saying? &quot;When you're too accustomed to something, you can't notice it.&quot; It's dark under the light. On the left are the higher guests. On the right... Linger, check the plaque first. It's not here. Oh, Officer Song... Don't speak. Twenty years ago, It was the first year of Jiading. This is not good. Your Majesty, When I arrived in Tonggu, I went to see Grand Preceptor immediately. But he is ill in bed, so he probably won't be able to welcome you in person. Oh. Several years have passed since my teacher retired and returned home. I miss him very much. Okay. Let's go. My teacher, I heard that you fell ill, so I'm here to visit. My teacher? You killed Grand Preceptor? You can't even save your own life now. Do you have the time to worry about someone else? Speak. Who is behind this? Your Majesty, are you okay? I'm fine. Steward Li! Han Fang, stop. Your Majesty, I'm late. the rebels have been sieged. Han Fang, how long do you want to act as the paws of the tiger? Five days ago, the Li family had a large number of straws enter the city. That day, you were on duty. Am I right? You can use everything to deceive except the look on your face. You said you found Ziyuan's sachet outside the Li Residence. I suppose you wanted my attention on the Li family. Yesterday, Councilor Li died outside the Court's front door. You staged a scene of killing with a puppet in front of me. And the thief that broke in last night, was also your staged scene to distract my attention. Very clever. Your Majesty, are you alright? Yes. Han Fang, Thank you for sparing my life last night. I don't know why you work for the person who is behind this, but I know if you stop now, it's not too late. Han Fang, how dare you? You tried to murder His Majesty. Don't hurry, Grand Censor Ding. The bold one is not Han Fang. It's someone else who stayed in Tonggu County for many years. and only did what he was told. Tell me now. Who is it? Your Majesty, this should be told from the death of Mr. Li in Tonggu County. I noticed many suspicious details on his body. But his father Councilor Li tried very hard to cover the truth of his son's death, which doesn't make sense. There is only one explanation. That is, Councilor Li was scared of the killer. At the same time, a brothel girl who had close relations with the Li family went missing expectedly, which made me realize there is only one purpose of murder, That is, Councilor Li and his son as well as Ziyuan were aware of the truth. That's why they were murdered. Later, when I followed the clues to investigate the Li Residence, the entire Li family disappeared. But in the Li Residence I found a genealogy of the Yu family. The Yu family? Yes. It is Lord Sheng's wife's family name. The Li family were honoring the Yu family's memorials. Therefore, I speculate Councilor Li was a servant to the Yu family. As for Grand Censor Ding, Your Majesty knows his last name wasn't Ding. It was Yu. His name was Yu Guangli. You... I considered so many things. but still I missed you, Song Ci. You found out. So what? You lousy emperor, the Yu family were nailed on the wooden sticks like strawmen. Today I'm going to make you feel the same. Han Fang, kill him. You... You... You... Han Fang, killing is easy. the difficult part is to deal with your conscience. Your Majesty, watch out! Sir, I killed Ziyuan and the Li family. I... I deserve to die. Han Fang... Yu Guangli, I didn't know you can hold the grudge for twenty years. My father made a choice between Lord Sheng and me. Lord Sheng was violent inside. So in the end, my father chose me to inherit the throne. But I didn't know in order to keep me safe on the throne, my father sent people to kill Lord Sheng's family. To maintain the stability of the whole empire I've always carried the guilty charge. But I cannot sleep at night when I think about Lord Sheng. I've always thought I owe Lord Sheng. Then I said to my father, &quot;Yu Guangli, head of the Yu family of Lord Sheng's wife, is loyal.&quot; That's why you could stay in the Royal Court and given the new last name, &quot;Ding&quot;, which takes off the &quot;sword&quot; in the middle of &quot;Yu&quot;. I, was hoping you would let go of the past Otherwise, why do you think you could live until today? Sir, Ding Guangli and the Li family planned to start a riot in Tonggu County in order to avenge Lord Sheng. I was also a pawn planted in Tonggu County by Yu Guangli. But Councilor Li wanted to back out. Ding Guangli was afraid that he would give out the secret, so he ordered me to kill everyone who knew. But your respect for every life made me realize I was wrong. Sir, take... take care. Officer Song, take care. As a decedent from the Yu family, whether it's wrong or right to not think about revenge but help the so-called enemy. Maybe it's like what you said. I should cut off the past and find my true self. When that day comes, I will come back to you. Autumn is cold Winter is heavy People in the dreams Are apart Ask the passer-by What to send The heart is empty The heart flips The hearts miss each other Farewell is hurtful The farewell poem is like singing a song When you come, forget see clearly the memory the scenery Everything is easy as you want The myths come and go as the heaven wishes Troubling and disturbing for thousands of years Love hand hatred belong to the earth They can't stay They can't hurt Looking back all of a sudden You are still in the rain Troubling and disturbing for decades The past is forgotten Perhaps the heaven has forgotten