He is a fighter. What was I supposed to do on the square? And what was on a BMD-1 with a full complement But soon, Lebed will order his solders Lebed became a hero for everyone The army is sometimes trapped That congress nominated Lebed This is an image of an imperial general, Drop, right now! This was a fairytale No one had ever seen Alain Delon came to support General Lebed. Lebed's staff was constantly Go f**k yourself! Record this, too! Alexander Lebed, the governor I can venture a guess Lebed thought And he would only become the winner What do you think? did he really take a pacifist stance Hello, my friends! We are in Krasnoyarsk. This instalment is more personal That's because here, in the building of the hotel my career of a political reporter started. I was working for NTV at the time, to cover the gubernatorial elections He took third place in the presidential Everyone knew his name. If during the first round of elections, there were twice as many on 17th May. The press explained the commotion Welcome to another instalment Today, we invited Alexander Lebed, We welcome Alexander Lebed here Good evening. I met Alexander Lebed myself that day. I remember how I was drawn to him Though politically I was a bigger fan who was the governor at the time, He became the governor of Krasnoyarsk. Four years later, that gave rise Our subscribers asked me to film and the reason is obvious. The general seems relevant again. A military officer, a general who served He stopped two wars, First the one in Transnistria, Lebed was the one who signed that ended the First Chechen War. It is still the subject Some say that there was Others say that it was treason. Last year, a clip from an interview He was interviewed in 1996 Different wars, even if they last negotiations and peace. I asked myself, widows, orphans, crippled people, letting the work of dozens of generations before you just to sit down How did a military general arrive How did Lebed even get into politics? How did he run in the presidential Who stood behind him? Who financed him? Did these people and Lebed himself Why did his political career, to the president's chair in the Kremlin, end here in Krasnoyarsk Today, we'll try to answer Of course, I won't rely We managed to find quite a lot of in the drama called &quot;General Lebed.&quot; MOSCOW, 1996 Russia is tired. It's tired of political turmoil, wars We need peace, order, and stability. We've had enough wars. I promise that. SERGEY STANKEVICH, Every time a revolutionary process I think about classic examples In every revolution, there comes An urge for a Bonaparte. And here he is, the perfect candidate with his graceful mannerisms and his ability to tell witty But not corny jokes. That's history for ya. You can take part in it voluntarily but you need to end it beautifully. Lebed showed up when On the one hand, there were communists who represented the archaic past Then there was the new democratic Then, due to heavy-handed and disillusionment because democracy didn't bring social they also became a disappointment. -Want a flat like this? We'll build it. Building isn't the problem. There is such a person, you know him. ALEXANDER LEBED There is a lot of put-on romanticizing myths that only their creators like. A larger-than-life persona rumours, and gossip, The speculations he never planned to refute. He did what he did, and then... I repeat, General Lebed is the hero Drop, right now! On the count of three. Yes, sir! Did you come up with &quot;Drop, right now&quot;? No, I didn't! But it was in The Puppets. Sometimes it looked good, And &quot;Drop, right now!&quot; it's not even a joke. &quot;Drop! Know your place. It became a quote. And we owe it It was in The Puppets, he heard it and made it his campaign slogan because I saw calendars -Who did you vote for? His name is so striking, I voted for Lebed this time. I've got this question/wish With his character and willpower... Alexander Ivanovich, don't let them I wish that you won't do malicious deeds. -That was a wish. -He is trying his best. Lebed definitely wasn't the person Leonid Radzikhovsky wrote speeches This enormous gorilla with a deep bass voice was a fairytale for 50 million voters. NOVOCHERKASSK, 1950 Alexander was born in Novocherkassk, His father, Ivan Andreyevich, He survived two wars Lebed wrote in his memoirs for being five minutes late My father was born in Terny, Half of this village was populated but not all of them were related. Elsewhere, it's Ivanov or Petrov. His mother, Ekaterina Grigoryevna, She worked at the Novocherkassk Lebed also had a younger brother Alexey. He'll also join the military We'll see more of him in the film. A curious detail: Alexander Lebed was registered They say it was a common practice NOVOCHERKASSK, There is the central thoroughfare, It branches out into Now it's named A tiny yard, nothing special. My father lived there Moreover, he went I should say, they were problem children, The guys in Novocherkassk Imagine a twelve-year-old boy who lives in a small town where everyone knows everyone. They grow up together, and before his eyes, NOVOCHERKASSK, JUNE 2, 1962 At the age of twelve, Lebed witnessed the most horrible Here, on the central square - it was a square back then, on 2nd June 1962, a workers' protest A day before that, they'd increase prices for goods in shops The situation got worse because the board announced a decrease in employees' salary. The employees were outraged by that But the head of the factory, &quot;If you don't have enough money They pestered him, asking him He didn't care about day-to-day life That's why he most likely - he told them to buzz off. I think they came up with this phrase The leaders didn't even want No explanations, No one did that, Who called the shots? the head of the Novocherkassk The second question, is the extent to which the special It's obvious they did. Unfortunately, My mother told me children They did that to get a better view. They became the target They shot at the chestnut tree Two boys were hit and fell down. The army shot them on the street. And, of course, it impacted him I heard a few phrases about that from him in person. What phrases? That it drove a wedge between him and the government He never stood against it until it fell. Yet, that was when he got disappointed In the government in general The Soviet government. By the end of 1990, almost all the Soviet Gorbachev was trying to maintain with the help of negotiations. So, on 20th August 1991, between Russia, Ukraine, Belarus, A lot of politicians in the country between nine out of fifteen republics. One of them was Gennady Yanaev, including the Minister of Defence They decided to take over You know the rest. 19th August 1991, Gorbachev was The State Committee on the State and by order of Yazov, they led armoured vehicles That included the building The office of newly elected president, The White House, He was on vacation, His task was to head to Moscow with three and get to the Tushino airfield. That was it. No details. Lebed arrived at the airfield Still perplexed, he got an order and have the battalion provide In his memoirs, he wrote that since there were no announcements and he didn't get any orders, when he got here and talked to those he saw that these were ordinary he wrote, &quot;If I'm supposed to provide security we will do that with these people, Then there was the question, I urge you first, to remain calm. Don't provoke the military in any way. Lebed learned about the coup near the White House. He was told that Yeltsin himself He left behind a lot of memories Yeltsin asked Lebed about the opinion Lebed said there was no opinion Shortly after, Yeltsin held a meeting that the Airborne Guard Division was on the side of the people. No television, no radio. In August 1991, a myth about General We should say that Lebed even when Yeltsin was in power. He said he didn't take anyone's side. This Airborne Guard Division's battalion seemed quite nice. The soldiers befriended They brought them food and drink. They even provided them what was going on. Everything seemed peaceful. MOSCOW, AUGUST 20, 1991 On 20th August, in the morning, Lebed was ordered to withdraw the troops On the same day, he was called who said, The general replied, In two days, a rumor appeared by the White House defenders. I remember those days. There was horrible, absolute chaos. Information could develop let alone per day. He said he had an order to withdraw. The regular troops had to leave. No one had to defend the rebels. I said, &quot;It doesn't look good.&quot; And he said, &quot;You see, I'm an officer, I gave an oath once. Lebed reported to the Airborne that any use of force would lead to a massive bloodbath. But what's important, he didn't refuse The battalion under Lebed's command The storming presupposed that the Airborne and break the ring of people Then the vehicles would ram the doors there was no fence at the time. Then the Airborne battalions would enter, the Alpha Group would storm Everything looked impressive Lebed accepted that order He put people out there They were doing reconnaissance People were waiting for the storming between 20th and 21st August. It was supposed to be carried out but according to the widespread version, That was a hectic night. A large group of the White House defenders a column of military equipment here It later turned out it was led Nowadays, he's widely known. Blood was shed, and it became clear The Airborne commander, Pavel Grachev, to storm the White House. The very order Lebedev said However, SCSE fell the following day, and the legend that Lebed took the side took on a life of its own. They asked Lebed directly, He said, &quot;Yes, I was.&quot; &quot;What do you think would happen His answer was, &quot;We would have taken thirty because there were almost no weapons And of course, he said, if not thousands of dead people.&quot; So, he didn't face any moral dilemma, At that moment, he didn't. But starting from that moment, Surprisingly, even his Novocherkassk trauma NOVOCHERKASSK, 1967 In 1967, after finishing high school, I tried to enter the aviation school, but I was unlucky. I got my nose broken, I went to work in a factory instead. My responsibilities were easy. I sanded them all day, At the end of the day I realized Then a strict and good-looking woman and recommended that I tidy up my lathe. Then she got me. It seemed like Alexander's life He got married and entered the Ryazan Guard Soon he became a deputy platoon commander. Lebed's commander in his 3rd year future Minister of Defence and would lose his position partly For the time being, Grachev had the newly graduated Lebed Lebed wasn't a big fan of that. Organization, paperwork, He dreamt of serious deeds FROM ALEXANDER LEBED'S MEMORIES Honestly, I was sick of school. In response, they told me I was obsessed with my career and that I shouldn't leave They proposed I spend at least one more year there and then talk about transferring. Destiny heard him. Three years later, AFGHANISTAN, 1978 In 1978, another military coup took place That's when revolutionaries from People's Democratic Party and brutally murdered him and his family. When the coup d'etat took place, none of the Soviet documents mentioned &quot;A military coup.&quot; Only a couple of months later, because the representatives of the People's Democratic Party who gained power, stated that they were going Afghanistan. Revolution. When the left-wing party gained power, Moscow started to support them. People began to support them. The Afghani revolutionaries gained power Little did they know it was hard Islamic fundamentalists fought with armed force. Uprisings took place in one region Afghani leadership they could lose their power. Then, in March 1979, they asked Moscow AFGHANISTAN, 1979 A cliche, &quot;providing strategic interests,&quot; but no one could explain it properly then, and it's still a mystery No one has ever known The Workers' and Peasants' Red Army Children of workers and peasants. Doesn't matter who he is, private, No one saw the sons And the soldiers did fulfil their duty. They didn't win that war, The situation wasn't fitting. There was no Moscow or Russia But they didn't lose either. They were poorly prepared, that's a fact. Because the Soviet troops' Who did we, the Soviet Army, With NATO. Huge columns of tanks, huge divisions, they shoot and kill. And in Afghanistan, it wasn't a highly technological war at the end of the 20th century. It was a guerilla war. No one was ready for that. No one researched the realities No one even looked into the experience No one looked into the US experience So, they had to learn by trial and error Living conditions and financial support leaves much to be desired. The bathhouse visit schedule was a mess bedsheets were either non-existent As a consequence, I went ahead and tried to solve this issue because if you expect a human you must provide him human conditions. If you treat him like a pig, If we talk about the losses, KGB and Ministry of Home Affairs, the losses were greater than 15,000. You would often... hear that fifteen thousand in nine years, out of two hundred and 20 million But I am convinced that it's incorrect is a lot or not. Take a family of mother, father, The son was drafted, he died. Is that a lot? Afghanistan is a pain, tears, and memory. It was a high price the soldiers paid I think by &quot;madness,&quot; he meant the political decision When they got into it they had to look for a way out. It isn't the task of a military The decision to start or finish a military That's why Lebed approached It was politically complex, but the military, including him, In July 1982, Lebed was promoted left Afghanistan and entered After that, he became the commander of the 331st Kostroma Airborne He participated in the parade According to his memoirs, he remembered the gruelling practices rather than the parade itself. On arriving at the venue with the column, I once again confirmed that a festival for an officer Flowers on the face and soap in the ass. These, as they would say, were characteristic of Lebed. They later became an important feature His service was going on well, so in 1986, and a colonel in 1988, He was appointed as the commander It was a memorable moment. The commander was doing an inspection. It was Alexander Ivanovich Lebed He lined up all the officers And it rained. The officers wore rainproof capes, He took his cape off They stooped to the level of soldiers, The officers faced the same toils That's my most vivid memory, And during the events that followed, He was with us in Baku, too. I'll tell you that he'd always take care Back then, I didn't know that my appointment coincided of a new era in history. February and March 1988 marked a new unpredictable, unexpected, sometimes an utterly mean page the history of my fatherland, The end of the 1980s is the ethnopolitical Georgia was probably a pioneer there. Then there was Armenia, which realized didn't support its zeal to unite the so-called Miatsum, Azerbaijan also was thinking outside of the Soviet Union. BAKU, NOVEMBER 1988 In November 1988, Lebed's battalion The city faced mass protests. They called for Azerbaijan's secession What was I supposed to do on the square? And what was the Parachute on a BMD-1 with a full complement I was immediately surrounded by people. I didn't see animosity in their faces. I saw anxiety, &quot;Why did you come here?&quot; I bluntly replied, &quot;Hell if I know! Everyone was passionately The rally was politically organized. I told them I wouldn't harm them either. The column would also be standing Then he wrote that one of the generals - gave an order to attack, to rush the square full of protesters Had I followed his command thoughtlessly, because there was only one way to attack with a crowd that dense: Cover everyone with armour, prepare the machine guns I think I was quite succinct of his mental capacities. But soon, Lebed will order his soldiers TBILISI, APRIL 9, 1989 On 9th April 1989, The Georgian activists &quot;Then Georgia can secede On 9th April, Lebed's battalion The column entered the city at night. The protesters threw stones Lebed commanded them to defend themselves. A while later, the phrase &quot;infantry spade&quot; That's what the Airborne troops used A soldier could use such a spade to repel the stones and cover his face. Only later did they cook up articles about a spade that could be turned into a symbol Some spades might have been used for that, but I should say that there were no deaths In Tbilisi, despite what they had written he didn't play any important role. The thing is that I was a part that looked into these Tbilisi events. I was the vice-president We investigated the matter thoroughly. We listened carefully to all the evidence At some point, a company of soldiers but it was short. Lebed didn't play any serious role However, there was the second instance, January 1990 and a large number were sent to Baku. There were clashes. Automatic weapons and armoured The losses were more significant, too. That's when Lebed showed himself as an envoy of Soviet power. BAKU, JANUARY 1990 There was a new wave of protests On 17th January, in front an indefinite protest started. The Union leadership tried to negotiate They couldn't. And Gorbachev decided Get lost, you party and state leaders! Instead of nipping the conflict They'll prove how useless they are. Then they'll use us, Taking over Baku with two million citizens is so nice and easy. The spades wouldn't work in Baku. They were shooting with assault rifles -At people? They tried shooting above their heads, People were wounded, too. More than a hundred people died. His attitude towards it was ambivalent. He said, &quot;I'm a soldier, I can't act as I please. But I doubted that that strategy He realized that the army No, the role of politics in Lebed's life In 1992, he, a major general - was sent to Transnistria. It became a hotspot, THE UNRECOGNIZED TRANSNISTRIAN He was sent there for an inspection. The thing is that his brother, Alexey, commanded the 300th Airborne Guard Since they were in the city, they were surrounded by protesters. It was clear that a conflict was brewing. They had to understand what to do So, Alexander Ivanovich came and expanded powers in order to come up This is the border between Moldova an unrecognized republic on the Dniester, which declared its independence and deems itself a separate state. It is called a border in Tiraspol, For Moldova's authorities, so it just has a police post and a full-fledged border checkpoint To enter the republic, and declare goods and currency What caused this border to appear? The disintegration of a country National republics started the process New countries were being formed, I believe that the language issue that made the protest movement In 1989, the Moldovan parliament that recognized Moldovan as the only Tiraspol, which was mostly It gave rise to protests Tens of thousands of citizens took part. If Moldova hadn't taken with only Moldovan being official, nothing would've happened. We as parliament deputies went to Tiraspol to discuss the matter But some didn't want to engage They tried to use force the way they thought was right. The confrontation between In 1992, A full-scale armed conflict broke out. In June 1992, in Transnistria No one knows why He was a well-known officer at the moment. When Lebed arrived in Tiraspol, rumours about him were already circulating. Lebed became the commander which was in chaos at the time. I think he came about Russians being That they facilitate When he spent time here, about who was guilty and what had What role did the 14th Russian army It initially was neutral. But on the first day of the war... I know that General Lebed, the reacted to the conflict very sharply. He told Moscow that had to step in It couldn't allow bloodshed. JUNE 19, 1992 On 19th June, the Moldovan It initiated warfare, dragged its... equipment and troops. President Snegur decided to try to take All the armoured equipment arrived. a large number of tanks, armoured cars and artillery had accumulated. And Lebed went ahead. At 3:30 a.m. That was a powerful artillery attack. with tank guns. Long story short, and launched a powerful deflective attack. After that, at 6 a.m., -Of Moldova? He brutally railed at Lebed because he had never reported that No one knew about it. There were no leaks. He called him down and said, &quot;Don't step away from the phone. Yeltsin called him and calmly told him to wrap it all up. &quot;Moldovan president Snegur are coming to see me&quot;, he said. And we saw that the two presidents were drinking champagne in the Kremlin. The war was over. That was Lebed. But there were Of course. In the end, the losses were grave. This flying wedge that After that, Chisinau They reached an agreement that changed After signing the agreement Lebed became a hero Just so you know, A lot of people in Transnistria still have A shadow of fascism was cast Genocide Why during the press conference did were legally elected but fascist at the By fascist, he meant forbidding the You mean the Moldovan Yes, the Moldovan authorities did. Is that why Lebed Of course. The order he got along with his extended &quot;Do not let a fratricidal A fratricidal war means that you decide who is whose brother, At that moment, He left a great memory in the citizens because he stayed there He even served as a deputy As a deputy, he solved lots of conflicts, He tried to stop the He entered a conflict, Then he started exposing corruption. Feels like he was fighting with himself. He came with one set of ideas but when he experienced the local life, In the end, As far as Lebed is concerned, The general is just He thought he really Grachev, the Minister of Defence, and told him about reducing the army. Obviously, Lebed was up in arms. &quot;The order will arrive today. In August 1994, a directive from the &quot;Disband the 14th Army. But Lebed, who had always followed He refused to disband Force a popular general out of Tiraspol? No one was ready They backed off. Yeltsin stated that afford to escalate the They tried a gentler way to lure Lebed They offered him a high but Lebed Moreover, four monts later, he said that his soldiers would never The situation was ambiguous. Lebed continued his service; but disobeyed and the Supreme Commander-in-Chief. So, de facto, he became a politician, something in between It was clear that Moscow In June 1995, Lebed &quot;with the right to wear and gratitude for his impeccable service.&quot; Good morning, guardsmen! Good morning, Sir! Lebed made a decision, and he was well aware that he could be put in prison for it. Supreme Commander's order. He had a political reason behind it. He had already become a politician when he was from the parliamentary He had gotten some really serious support. At that moment, he had graduated And he got to Moscow with some experience He must have had some He found himself in the Congress Here, at New Arbat Avenue, 15, in the mid-1990s, Congress It was a right-wing, or even extreme That's where in April 1995, He became vice-chairman of who was the secretary That congress nominated On 22nd January 1996 the Central Election However, Lebed said so a separate initiative group But that's not important, and that was the But on the informal and true side, in order to become you need to solve a matter in the His appearance was quite fortunate because the image of an imperial general, who was ready to impose just order, And, attention, it positioned itself as Don't you think we have a &quot;flank disease&quot;? Boris Nikolayevich, our current president, declared a war, The left flank is on the alert, too. Their sentiments are almost the same. They also want I just want to keep the peace and calm amidst all of this. If at some point, the whole world makes a flank blunder, I will invite you We might need good journalists there. I don't think he He tasted power Besides, who constantly fed him more knowledge. Apparently, the talk about It looked like Today, we need to nip any stop the rise And I, a Russian officer, We were offered the opportunity to develop and then prepare several We obviously had to hear his opinion and his suggestions As far as I understand, We had a task We needed to prepare Alexander We came in. There was They introduced us to him and said, &quot;These They would tell you how the We took atlases and other books, -Every day? -For how long? Golovkov reached I was supposed to write texts, both articles on his behalf, and the scripts for Some literary PR work for different media. I just wondered why the heck he needed me. He was great at public speaking; his Russian was eloquent. I even felt I was competing with Apparently, he was happy with my work because when I was getting paid, Golovkov told me that he said, and then after a pause, I'm running for president of Russia. I intend to fight for that position. At the same time, -You don't? But it will depend on the conditions and When I was a soldier, Now I live in a different world. Do you think, I think not at the beginning. A former general living as an extremely helpless creature. Rogozin tried to butter him up. Alexander Lebed is absolutely confident in and he wants to become president. He won't tell you about his other options Lebed needed promotion. He needed to return and multiply his promotion capitalization The President's administration They found the perfect If you become the president of Russia, can dictatorship or an authoritarian I have started down this thorny a totalitarian or authoritarian regime. I read in a Western paper, They expect a &quot;firm hand&quot;. That's why We are past the times when you could maintain the order in the country only through brute force. There is no enthusiasm like there was There is no force either. Of course, Lebed was perfect I remember we talked I told him, &quot;Let's have him say this&quot;. &quot;The difference between me and full of dead dissidents, and But Golovkov said, What Pinochet, what corpses? No way!&quot; I have a feeling that either he, he had campaign managers after he got of a &quot;terse soldier father&quot;. That's right, a &quot;gaffer&quot; That's what they were going for. That's what Vitya Shenderovich Drop, right now! Yes, sir! The genre presupposes grotesque, caricature and exaggerated features. His brutal character was overemphasized. But in the case of Lebed, because he made It wasn't his innate brutality. He was well aware of that image And he was gifted in politics, definitely. Behind the scenes, he was cheerful. He was great at telling jokes. Really great at it. Military jokes though. Yes, very often they were borderline He had a sense of humour, I had the impression that he was nervous, very sensitive, and very narcissistic. I thought he lacked self-esteem He took public speeches Extremely seriously. and see his electorate, Such meetings All in all, he was tough on The Peculiarities of the National Hunt Alexey Buldakov, who played The General, How much does it resemble the real Lebed? Well, I... I might not and I have never seen him tipsy or drunk. I could drink as much as I needed Then I saw some individuals from our I decided not I wanted to be the most sober Did he have this image of a simple guy, just like you and me, No, no. He didn't reduce the distance. He tried to show himself &quot;I'm not your pal, I'm a watchful power.&quot; -So, no familiarity? He kept his distance that let him apply his forceful qualities He could do that at any moment. He was popular with the regular Yes. Yes, he was because all the world local plans and quality of life went down. Financial distress also made people hope for some sort of &quot;saviour&quot; and Have you ever had to You know, I have. I served in Afghanistan. Alright. Then &quot;we be of one blood, Any war, even if it lasts 100 years, has And I've been wondering for a while, making people widows, orphans, of our many predecessors, if at the end of the day Maybe we should just What do you think? Being did he really take a pacifist stance at It was more of a political necessity indicating that But at the same time, through a certain personal transformation. He saw how limited military force was. He saw both the possibilities and the times when it After having gone through a few cycles where the limitations he clearly He was never a pacifist or a peace-keeper. As for the things he said to Kiselev, Two of them ghost-wrote his books... He would always say that Oftentimes the most belligerent ones but the ones who believe that putting on Lebed didn't. and conflicts and He was highly intuitive and charismatic. I think that even though he would try to negotiate, it wasn't his strong suit. And if you weren't you didn't stand a single chance to win a legitimate When we were just starting out, we had this strong impression that we strictly within of that bureaucratic puzzle that worked for Yeltsin. The plan was to pull some votes away to avoid the disaster and that would be if Zyuganov received during the first round, Who was supposed to pull the votes According to our plan, Lebed A patriot, a serviceman. We didn't have a The intention was to evoke It was my idea to the '96 elections, as a real and serious threat. I pitched this directly to Boris Yeltsin. Berezovsky laid a He decided that Yeltsin was weak and was doomed to give up his power On the one hand, and enter into So, he began preparing for the agreement. One could track that easily, And by the way, at that time, very eager to discuss Everyone was eager Besides, he found that negotiating with without any tricks up in a weak position, It was probably He came up with that, and Chubais It was part of the election campaign. That's it. The deal I promised to provide him with the number of signatures he needed as long as we conducted a survey The one who received more votes, would get to stay. After the survey ended, Then he came to me and said, &quot;I'm going back on my promise.&quot; The exchange I told him, &quot;Well then, you tricked me.&quot; And he said, &quot;Right, This was the point of Lebed He was propelled by Berezovsky, who intended Had Lebed come to power, I don't and I believe Berezovsky The fact that Lebed leads me to believe and wouldn't have agreed to be a pawn. Of course, seeing how he was Yet he couldn't rush it, that it was uncharted territory just how obedient the So I don't think that As far as I know, was sponsored by It's a myth perpetuated He's always striving for greatness. I didn't receive a single ruble Towards the end of It would've been strange if Obviously, he invested his own money Did Lebed realize that he was As you can imagine, but I think he understood it perfectly. Except they played their game, They wanted to use him, he wanted MOSCOW Alexander Lebed takes Boris Yeltsin's that one of the candidates will eventually Having cast a vote in his own he decided to decline his ride and walked home After the first round of the elections in Yeah, it's a lot. However, there was a critical Those 15% were all very loyal voters. They voted for the General and were ready to follow his political Everyone was waiting for what he was The country is ruled by two concepts: it brought upon us a lot of bloodshed, The other is new, yet sadly But it's new and it's the future. I choose the new one. He encouraged people to vote for Yeltsin. It's hard to calculate the exact impact Maybe there were other factors at play. Nevertheless, public support after Lebed joined his team. He thought that by doing this favor, That's where his ambitions lay. He wanted to have I think that was exactly He was in strong disagreement with the way a war But you see, they ended up appointing him What is the power of the Security Council? It's a coordinating advisory authority. You draw up a document and hand it in. If it's approved, good. -Is that not your style? Lebed took up a respective post and was tasked with a demanding mission By the way, he was very critical It was another matter of severe conflict between him and Pavel Grachev Pavel Grachev was then one He was considered one of the initiators because it was he who promised with just one parachute infantry regiment. The failed New Year storm of '95 and indicated the start of a real war. By the summer of '96 Grachev and his leverage in the Kremlin So, when Lebed proposed the presidential office approved it The Russian leadership did nothing I put the matter to rest. I'm not afraid to die from modesty, I personally put an end In the summer of '96, the Chechen campaign An open partisan war was in full swing, the destruction of whole villages On August 6, groups of Chechen militia suddenly attacked Grozny. The military was caught off-guard. The Chechens seized control of the city. It was obvious that another bloody assault The Secretary of the Security Council, which is to say, negotiations. After a short discussion in absentia, the parties met Its name would soon become KHASAVYURT, AUGUST 31, 1996 Naturally, we traveled According to various southern traditions, so that's what we did. We stayed at the table and then we were supposed from Makhachkala to Khasavyurt. But then Alexander Ivanovich, told the pilot, &quot;Step aside! Excuse me, you've mentioned a meal. Of course, we were. Certainly. It would be impolite to do otherwise. He was drunk when flying the helicopter? I don't know He must have had a couple of shots. He took the pilot's place, and, to my delight, he gave the controls We arrived early in the morning. Nobody was there. I asked the ambassador I asked him, &quot;Where is Guldimannn?&quot; Guldimannn was an OSCE representative. I went to Khasavyurt. Lebed and his delegation were there. He asked, &quot;Okay, where are the Chechens? Where are your Chechens?&quot; I told him, &quot;They said the meeting Lebed replied, &quot;No, it has I took the helicopter, and looked for Maskhadov's car. It wasn't easy, but I found it eventually. I met with Maskhadov and told him, Some time later, Mr. Guldimann showed up. And then the members of the Chechen team When the negotiations started they told us, &quot;We have Of course, they'd had it for a while. &quot;We don't agree, we negotiate!&quot; and so on. Lebed said to Maskhadov, &quot;Okay. You have your text of the document, Maskhadov replied, &quot;Of course, Lebed said, &quot;I prefer my text. Let's do it this way, and you will point out every word And while Lebed made a lot of edits, he pushed through a few important points. He said, &quot;You see, Whether it was right or wrong But he surely believed that for him, in regard to internal policy. Lebed thought that he could And he would only become the winner Even if it took making some concessions that probably shouldn't have been made, I think this agreement and it took effect, as history indicates. The issue doesn't lie but in the things that followed. The wording that was masterfully chosen and, in fact, bore the core meaning, suggested that the military action and the federal troops in conjunction with the disbandment of insurgent separatist groups. Alexander Ivanovich de facto agreed without the disbandment which led to completely different outcomes At the end everyone They promised to stick to the agreement and hold meetings Many say that it was a betrayal, it should've been done It's hard for me to judge now, but I know that if it hadn't been a huge number of personnel since they were encircled. You should ask the mothers whether it was the right thing to do. It's very difficult especially since Alexander Ivanovich The war lost steam, that's for sure. It helps no one, so we should stop it. Everyone's exhausted by it. Will Chechnya break away I don't think so. Chechnya needs Russia more Are you in favor of a referendum It is my opinion Now? Today I have to reconcile my I didn't win the elections. At the time, Yeltsin did Lebed had his own ambitious plans, and thought with stopping the war and making peace. There was some mileage in it. Did you meet or talk The last time I saw him was when the talk of him -How much later was that? So, three months later. We don't keep secrets Everybody always talks. When I got wind of it, came to his house and said, &quot;It's my duty to notify you about what I heard So be aware that a decision is coming.&quot; He looked at me and said after a pause, &quot;If they come to take me away, I'll take down three of them on the spot.&quot; So, he laughed it off. Yes, he couldn't do without a joke. Do you think it was inevitable soon after the elections Yeltsin was very sick Of course, it was clear that not very many people were compatible with Lebed, should he become Yeltsin's successor. The security ministers watched everything predicted his next moves and tried to interfere with them They wanted to thwart his rise to power and prevent him from seizing the reins. To do this, they attempted any chance they could. There is some kind The elections are going yet now everyone is already showing willingness to participate. Of course, we can't tolerate such circumstances anymore. In my opinion, It was as logical in nature as the appointment of Lebed By default, he certainly couldn't be under Yeltsin. Lebed's appetite As it stood, he didn't really insist on keeping his bureaucrat spot Apparently, it was then that he started to entertain the idea to gain some of the experience After resigning from the Security Council, Lebed disappeared but it wasn't for long. It turned out to be the calm In the beginning of 1997, the country started preparing Back in the day with a lot of resources allotted, It was rumoured that one of the regional governors His office started of Lebed becoming Tula Oblast was brought up a few times. But this option was ruled out. Every now and then other regions with rumors constantly changing. All of them were denied. Finally, on February 11, 1998, at the Interfax agency office, Lebed stated that he was going to run It's 3000 kilometers away from Moscow. The center of Siberia, which Lebed had no connections to. Here, in Moscow, nobody doubted that in Krasnoyarsk, Lebed would to the capital and the presidency. Who knew that soon enough, the events KRASNOYARSK, 1998 In the beginning of 1998, you were the head In February, Lebed announced that he was going to run What was your reaction All went well, When Lebed announced I realized that he and his team had made But I knew that it would be It was clear that for Lebed What mattered most to him not the governor's position. So it was evident that he wasn't going This is the building Then its leadership post was It was and still is Now it's under construction, that is even more extravagant. And here, as you can see, The topic of metro construction resurfaces as it did 25 years ago. The construction of new stations but for some reason A few candidates registered As you already know, as there was real competition. But the attention, of course, Alexander Lebed He was a local resident, We could describe as a first-wave democrat a Siberian Anatoly Sobchak He easily won all the elections and had been a very popular figure which, of course, shook things up. Despite Zubov having received approval long before the elections, everything suddenly changed It severely undermined Zubov's morale. He tried playing the only card he could: Lebed wasn't a local, and he was going to come here to go back to Moscow, run for president, so he didn't actually care They tried to play this card In general, has always been crucial This trick always works. I'm not a Varangian Do you need an interpreter I'm Russian, a native, one could say. However, in 1998, the trick didn't work, mainly because Lebed Those from the countryside, as opposed to the city-folk were pleased with the fact that someone was on TV all the time and rivaled Yeltsin himself came here and asked for their votes. Is that true that the famous quote -It's true. I think it was the predominant sentiment The top leaders But as a journalist, I knew They needed someone steady-handed. They wanted a strong-willed governor, because the situation it was terrible. People weren't getting paid, electricity and utilities bills All in all, Krasnoyarsk Krai Zubov's governorship coincided with a very unfortunate period which was probably the most tragic episode in the history of modern Russia's economy. Zubov's main job was to stop the privatization and preserve production capabilities and connections in the region. They accomplished a lot. But he wasn't much of a PR expert. Even though the presidential elections we hadn't had an election campaign and no one deemed it possible. A group of political strategists They had unlimited financial resources. They brought bags of cash. No one had ever seen anything like this. Here are a couple of facts of just how much money A few thousand members of staff or rather, for his campaign, including those who handed out leaflets or ran the campaign And the main proof to support General Lebed Alain Delon's visit to Siberia Such people have visited the city! Krasnoyarsk has become To remind everyone who he is, he's a big French movie star He was in his 60s and in the twilight He came here to support Lebed. The story behind it was a bit dream-like: Lebed had once been to Paris, and they hit it off It's not clear what Delon had Of course, people were captivated by it. There is this nice story in front of an audience in the open air and talking about Lebed. Some passersby were asked by a journalist &quot;What do you think Delon was behind them. -It's not him. They just dressed Why would Alain Delon It certainly made quite the impression. How much was Alain Delon paid to do this? I'm no judge. The same rumors I can confidently say one thing: he didn't come here for free, Lebed's office was said for Alain Delon's visit. I don't know, I didn't work at the office, I think Alain Delon wouldn't have agreed to stump It started with friendship. General Lebed invited me And I remembered Alla Borisovna Pugacheva. So I packed my things, called her I talked her into it. We arrived and the whole Moscow was shocked because no one expected You came to Krasnoyarsk to work as a campaign strategist who was Lebed's rival. -Yes. Unfortunately, they came I was not so much invited to strategize against Lebed, but to save Zubov's reputation. Was it to avoid his devastating loss Yes, it was. Zubov didn't supervise his own campaign, because he has somebody sent someone. But his main partner was Luzhkov. Zubov's office didn't monitor it. You were the one who held The infamous case of black PR. -Who gave you these signs? What bosses? Who are your bosses? Who are your bosses? We don't have any! This wasn't black PR. It was a funny way to get the support that constituted about 15 percent namely teachers and doctors. They were zooming back and forth. They liked Zubov because they knew him, they saw him as a good and decent man. We corrected his mumble. But also there was Lebed, who'd had a successful career. They reasoned that he could get and their life would become better. They were of two minds that's why we decided We gathered the homeless and handed out signs that said, And off they went. They went across the bridge. When I asked Zubov after the elections, &quot;How come, Valery Mikhailovich? he said, &quot;Listen, two things. First, the presidential office itself and send him far away, because they surely didn't need him. So, there were two options: he would either lose or get bogged down in the economic issues They couldn't decide. But the main thing, was that the presidential office told him, &quot;We will help you if you give up that enterprise But Zubov was an idealist so he flatly refused. That's why he didn't have or the presidential administration. Who posted you to Krasnoyarsk? Or was a contract concluded? Let's put it this way, it was &quot;the other side The political clique wasn't in on the economic plans. They measured everything the red, the white, the green, Lebed as a governor Berezovsky talked to Zubov and suggested that they drove Zubov was butting heads -With Potanin and Prokhorov? Zubov refused, because, according to him, it was a local economic mainstay -Was Berezovsky trying to get hold of it? So, Berezovsky told him, &quot;Well, then Krasnoyarsk Krai Then why did Potanin and Prokhorov during the election campaign? They showed their support In reality, all oligarchs because they belonged of Seven Bankers as Berezovsky. As a precaution, I wanted to show you what Krasoyarsk but no such luck. It's obstructed by this haze, We had a whole video that I suggest you watch. The thing is, Krasnoyarsk and the smoke from coal furnaces and electric hot water generation plants seeing as it's situated in a depression. It's surprising, because back then one of the richest Russian regions, a donor region that has always Why? Because the biggest industrial enterprises The Extreme North is home and Krasnoyarsk itself can boast There are also a few smaller plants. When the election campaign all these facilities among the &quot;right&quot; people as part of the privatization process Of course, most of them For instance, Norilsk Nickel of Potanin and Prokhorov. However, others were also For example, Anatoly Petrovich Bykov, the man who kept control and many other enterprises except for the Norilsk Nickel plant. Here, nothing was done He, as they say now, you get the idea. By the way, I met Anatoly Bykov and interviewed him. Actually, there weren't any red jackets, I'd say he was an attentive, Why &quot;was&quot;, though? He still is albeit in a detention center. A criminal case was launched against him and he was taken into custody. And he had been Right after the gubernatorial elections In order to understand it's important to know that Bykov supported Lebed The governor arrived at 12 p.m. sharp. He was greeted with bread and salt Who did TVK belong to at the time? To Anatoly Petrovich Bykov. So, who was TVK Naturally, it was supporting Lebed. At the time it wasn't up to journalists It was the same with NTV. Now it's probably just like that It's not up to them to decide It's hard to overestimate the role Let me remind you It was the late 90s, for Russian journalists How did it work? Let's review. There were a lot that belonged to different owners: some were governmental Since the interests of the private actors different media outlets as something completely opposite. The audience can make up their own mind This is exactly what happened My understanding the owner of NTV at the time, wasn't personally or economically That's why the journalists in accordance be objective and give the floor The only assignment I received heading for Krasnoyarsk was to make my reporting It didn't take me long to realize people show you more respect than to those outlets that serve them. I still remember that both Lebed's and Zubov's offices happily agreeing to be interviewed It was a very important lesson for me. It was probably then that I saw for the first time how the kind of journalistic work should be done. But at the same time, that Channel One, the main outlet was entirely on Lebed's side For example, on his shows, Sergey Dorenko would regularly Zubov's office hopes to improve with the arrival of the Moscow delegation which will probably thank for their satisfying Moscow lifestyle at the expense As forgotten they even held live TV debates Lebed and Zubov participated aired on a state-owned channel NTV also wanted to organize a live meeting I was in charge of the production. We held it on the night after the second round Even though the sound wasn't good it still went live and both candidates I didn't lose. Alexander Ivanovich won the seat But my victory lies from becoming The first round of the elections Lebed beat Zubov Interestingly, Zubov won in Krasnoyarsk The local companies didn't exactly lend Moreover, Lebed lost because in '98, we had about eight or nine channels. Out of those channels, The rest of them opposed him. The second round of the voting, was held on May 17th. Predictably, Lebed won, having received On June 5th, here, Lebed was inaugurated. I, Alexander Lebed, assume the controlling power and authority What do you think were the main reasons Well, after all these years, First of all, Lebed Second, the constituency Because it was the 90s, the Soviet Union had just collapsed, There were a lot of protest voters, especially in the rural areas Lebed just appealed to the protest voters. So it was his fame and the protest voters. The third reason and Bykov's support here. These were the three main reasons. After three or four months, Bykov hoped that he would be able Not his personal ones, But his plan failed, because the visiting officials All in all, they fell out, and Bykov went Some time later, he was taken to court and then put behind bars after having been very strangely convicted He invited me to a Russian sauna He told me, &quot;Tell your friend I will make him an offer because I helped him.&quot; I said, &quot;You should speak rather than give him ultimatums.&quot; He looked at me and replied, &quot;If something goes wrong, I'll do this.&quot; I immediately went to Alexander Ivanovich and said, &quot;Alexander Ivanovich, He turned to me Soon after the elections, it's a well-known fact. Your TV channel that belonged to Bykov Yes. We were often reprimanded and rightfully so. But when we started opposing Lebed, Personally, my view on Lebed I had been watching him since 1991. Lebed was an eminent figure. I went to the Congress Considering that 90s politics Lebed and Rogozin And they stuck to the same ideology that Russia and Putin Back then Putin was a democrat and they were in Putin's place, and claiming they weren't going to let I'd become disillusioned with Lebed before he ran for governor When Lebed became the governor, he scouted members for his administration The majority of staff who brought a few people And they were open about it, too. They said that they agreed to come because of their boss' promising prospects They genuinely believed that he would go on Other oligarchs also sent someone in; urban madmen, There were very many thugs, those typical New Russians that wore red jackets and showed off. Some of them were deputies. -Nikolai Verner, for example. I'm an angel, see? There was one more eminent figure, but everyone called her &quot;Lusya&quot;. The workers of a plant, - I don't remember There are a lot of machine-building plants They were on strike and they hadn't been paid Lusya loved wearing fur coats. The girls that worked at our news station tried to count how many of them she had, but at some point, they gave up. So, Lusya Selivanova came to meet wearing either a mink coat as well as a jeweled collar and rings. The workers said, &quot;We haven't been paid we can't even buy any books or clothes &quot;There's no money, Anyway, I would like When Alexander Ivanovich of course, he didn't have a team. I assume that he didn't really trust Maybe his entourage warned him But gradually, after a year and a half, it was mainly local personnel who stayed. Over the course of those four years, Lebed's staff was constantly I tried to count, but then gave up. In four years, 23 Heads a title now known as came and went, I believe. He was a very strict and demanding leader, He had a favorite saying &quot;Every sheep must wear its own horn&quot;. In the right context, it means that everyone has You have your sphere of control. You can't shift it onto someone else If you have a task, you must fulfill it. Everyone in Krasnoyarsk Because there had been a tradition through the back door and other circumstances Lebed would part with them very easily. I don't see anything personal about this. Lebed did manage to collect taxes from Norilsk Nickel, from Rusal that started paying Then we were able and started paying the workers. Of course, this was made possible and his tough stance. As part of a nation-wide trend, the country was resolving -So it wasn't Lebed's achievement? The federal government was doing it. If we talk about 1997 and 1999, He was a puppet of a governor. Judging by the people he worked with in the government you could tell Some things needed to be done, and he would be told If he didn't deem something necessary, they would explain to him why it was in a language that was foreign to him. Some people did influence him Of course, one of them It had to do as well as with Rusal. Krasnoyarsk Krai Then it had - and still does have - that hasn't been wasted, To what extent did Lebed have a say You know, at first, I thought that their influence was quite big. But then slowly but surely Alexander Ivanovich somehow managed to get rid of this influence and make his own decisions. Considering the condition Russia was in, it was impossible and contribute to the prosperity and material security It was next to impossible. Besides, a common mistake is that they put too much trust thinking that if they and order them to do something, But it doesn't. And if you hire thinking that you made the reality still won't change. I think one of his mistakes He was a very gullible person. This quality let him down. And the people in his circle were going about their fishy dealings Undoubtedly, they blamed it all on him. He got a slap in the face many times, pardon the slang. What I mean is, We have to admit that the people of Krasnoyarsk Krai But I'm sure that the fault rested From the viewpoint of his political advancement strategy that he used to get to the pinnacle The specific thing about Russia is that here, top level politics If you happen to be away you lose connections and contacts. You also get excluded from the list of potential candidates It was a mistake. The building that had seemed turned out to be a trap for Lebed. When Putin gained a footing in Moscow, because the important people in Moscow It was clear that the path and now he had less money. I'm going to share In 2001, I came to Krasnoyarsk again to cover one of Putin's visits Of course, Lebed greeted It was painstakingly obvious that this man didn't at all fit Compared to the guests from Moscow who were all wearing elegant coats Lebed was also wearing a coat, It was probably a general's coat, but he looked It was kind of funny, but I was actually feeling sorry for him, because it was evident and was never going to fit in. I remember the words I wrote for my story. I wrote, &quot;Putin was in the right place while Lebed was in Krasnoyarsk.&quot; The matters here that the pre-election charm The residents started for a number of issues There were still plenty of those in the end of the 90s And he didn't stand many chances with the next elections set for 2003. Lebed was essentially trapped, because he didn't have But he was clearly Even if he decided to run, Not a single chance. By the end of 2001, Lebed You know, those who were making efforts were claiming If the integrity and hadn't been interfered with, the people would've chosen him. They loved him. He was a hero He was a general that could yell This young schmuck comes to me, &quot;It's commercially Go to hell! Record this, too! That's why people loved him. The part of the elites so they did everything to prevent him But he was going to. Our people can forgive a lot of things if there's no personal greed attached. Lebed, for one, wasn't greedy. So, what motivated him the most? Power. Can't it be considered greed? It can, but we're talking He wasn't greedy money-wise. He wasn't corrupt He wasn't in the habit who really played dirty against him. In that sense, So when you took jabs at him, He didn't. Compared to today's authorities Lebed did a good job in that respect. I hadn't been on leave for four years. Alexander Ivanovich didn't like it I asked him, &quot;You know, I'm tired. He said, &quot;No. Two weeks.&quot; I said, &quot;Two weeks? Thank God.&quot; He was okay with that. I worked for a week after that and on Friday, I was winding down. Otherwise you would've been One hundred percent. I was supposed to be there, Today, Alexander Lebed, has been killed In the early hours of April 28th, 2002, a MI-8 helicopter took off here in Krasnoyarsk. Lebed, 16 people including journalists, They were going to attend the opening That day the visibility was low, meaning that it was required to fly The MI-8 isn't really designed but they proceeded Just about two kilometers away the helicopter hit electric lines Eight people died instantly. Severely injured, General Lebed was rushed I'm sorry, but to assume and didn't notice the power lines... The crew members were professionals. You think there was something else I can venture a guess I can make an assumption. I think that it was just an accident. I don't see though there was because right before the accident, Lebed had settled the bill I don't believe in conspiracies. I don't think it happened My understanding We have the court decision, The Emergencies Ministry special committee The court found that there was an error According to the official statement, it was the crew's error They ignored the weather conditions and didn't notice the power lines. The helicopter's commander Takhir Akhmerov He maintained that it was In some interviews, he stated that someone might have subtly tampered In others, that the flight altitude He also insisted they had been All in all, There are a plethora which suggest that Lebed was assassinated, the helicopter was mined with the explosives Boris Berezovsky in particular theorized But this statement came after he'd already had moved abroad and accusations at Putin. To be honest, into the mined helicopter conspiracies, because, frankly speaking, this theory isn't backed by any evidence There is yet another theory suggesting that Lebed himself could have interfered According to Vladimir Lukin, he would for example, on their way to Khasavyurt. There's a different story Lebed ordered the crew to ignore the bad weather conditions There are a lot of rumors and circumstantial evidence But again, there's no proof. We used to spend a lot of time on planes, There wasn't a single plane where Alexander Ivanovich and take over the controls. He never gave orders Those rumors about him on what to do and how to fly are all lies. Not so long ago, and also flew a helicopter. It wasn't as big as a MI-8, but still. I can say that hitting power lines is one of the most common causes especially when it comes to helicopters. Usually, it happens to experienced pilots that are self-confident enough to think in regard to flying And accidents occur because if the weather is poor, a pilot who flies by visual references and can easily miss power lines. It's easy to do so if you're sitting That's why all amateur pilots are taught and not the lines themselves. But if you fail to notice the poles, there's nothing that can save you from hitting the lines I personally know a few experienced pilots who hit the lines and crashed in these exact circumstances. That's why this version Takhir Akhmerov was sentenced He served two years and was released On April 29th, 2002 where he had been inaugurated a memorial service was held for Lebed. About 50 thousand Krasnoyarsk residents Putin, Berezovsky and even Alain Delon The family decided to bury Lebed and the memorial service in the capital The creme de la creme of Moscow Boris Nemtsov, said that life wouldn't be because he was an eminent and proved to be so He is a fighter. He spent all his life fighting. Sometimes he would win, But the fact that fate proves he was a fighter till the end. His death can only make you I don't think he got to fully realize Other than that, it was a classic Revolution spares neither its supporters nor its opposers. Do you think he had a real chance of becoming the president Anyone probably has a chance, always. But after he stopped being part of the Russian authorities... Maybe if he had kept the role he might have become his successor. But history knows no &quot;ifs&quot;. There was never an &quot;if&quot;. So we'll never know. If you can't buddy up to them, you should become the head which was next to impossible But if you had some exceptional talents you could at least try to do something. But he didn't want So, he was a self-contained swan that flew by himself, But you see, a swan on its own... Not every swan can fly So, friends, here we are. You're free to draw your own conclusions. I decided to finish this episode exactly where my journalistic career You know, as I was filming this episode, I realized that I had been influenced by General Lebed's charm He had made a lasting impression The job of a journalist has a drawback When you start digging through documents it turns out that in reality, or not exactly the way you'd imagine You start seeing who were hiding behind polished looks and fulfilling their own often doing so ruthlessly I get that. It is what it is. It's not black-and-white, as we all know. But I thought that the power shouldn't be underestimated. Because at the end of the day, As time goes by, a myth can become a fact, In that respect, the story of a general prevented two wars is a powerful myth, not only in respect It's been &quot;Redaktsiya&quot;, and subscribe to our channel. See you soon.