Hi guys, thanks for tuning in to another I'm Ian McCollum, and I am here today in Prague in the Czech Republic at the VHU, the Military History Institute. And we are taking a look at some particularly cool prototype Czech firearms, and today we are looking at Project Krasa. This was one of a series developed with the intention of making specifically for like unit commanders Paratroops, Special Forces, ... Now this project starts in And their first go at this the standard infantry rifle, and This was experimental rifle &quot;E&quot;, various experimental rifles that E was the attempt to make And it wasn't really going to work So fundamentally ... the goal was to have a gun that would be substantially shorter that had ever been produced in So the concept here was it was to use the regular Essentially this is the ... counterpart But ... the original goal was 1.6 kilograms They wanted it less than a foot long in the Now they never quite achieved that, with a shrunk down And ... by the way, that shortened They continue working on new designs. who was the designer of the vz.58, The concept starts in 1980, two developmental models, This is the one fully functional So it weighs in at 4.6 pounds, This has a 5.4 inch long barrel. It's 12.4 inches overall, it's like 315mm overall length with the stock folded, And the way they managed to do that was by So that instead of pushing this actually pulls them back It is one of only a couple of firearms The other three that I can point you to one is the Mars pistol, the Frankly, the Mars pistol I think is bigger and Then the Boberg pistols, which ... a compact version of gun The Boberg is really because they are both using this in order to make the gun Essentially what it means is the barrel can Because ... in a normal system the cartridge has and so the barrel can't start On this the cartridge is and so when it's chambered it's being So the barrel can actually be Anyway, the Boberg pistol does this. And then the North Koreans at about the same time develop their own version that could feed from And the magazine used So ... I'll put links to all three of those if you want to see some other takes But back to the Krasa here, ... this is Now they didn't do a whole lot about a magazine worth They tested it with some proof rounds to make They ran a handful of regular cartridges ... By the way, the average muzzle was 535 metres per second (or 1,755 feet per So I know you're probably eager to do let's dive right in, pull Alright, so here here's the gun folded, For a size comparison, This thing is legitimately tiny. And perhaps even more interesting that you actually have a to get a decent cheek weld Normally guns that are this small, have stocks that are just not really This actually feels pretty good in Now the markings on Sa is short for <i>samopal</i>, that's submachine And then this is the serial number. Czech experimental weapons essentially quasi-random They were sort of sequential, but like no one's been able to identify a So ... like they only there's really no significance Anyway, we then have a selector There is your selector switch on the side. We have a rather push that in and This is not an AK magazine. It's also I suppose more because it feeds cartridges backwards. So to load this, this is And to load it we have to do is push this in, And there's another one. So it is a 20 round And that's important, has to grab the cartridge So you can't really have the alternating because ... this is a fairly complex operation, So ... the round has to be in the same position The sights are not super important But we've got a front protected blade, and we've got a rear notch sight adjustable That is the charging handle, And there's a cool system set up where the So when the ... empty case that's when the dust cover automatically Now to disassemble this we're going very much like a Kalashnikov, just push It's spring-loaded, so it'll stay up like that. We can then push this That's the recoil spring. And then the bolt and The gas piston at the front here is articulated, so it can go into the gas tube there, bring Inside here we have two components, So there we go, we can A couple of things to note here. These are the locking surfaces, so Firing pin, extractor of course. The firing pin is floating here, I don't know, it probably would And then we have these two cam surfaces And those are what bring the bolt So on the bolt carrier, we have So ... when the bolt goes forward, They are going to push into position like that. They grab the cartridge and (when it fires or when you this pulls the cartridge Now ... where it goes from this, But first let me put the bolt And then we've got an angled This is the unlocked travelling position. And then when this is feeding a cartridge ... up there When this hits the chamber but the recoil spring is going to Which is going to drop the and then the locking lugs right here When it fires, gas pressure here which pushes it like this, until They are going to push and then allows the whole You can see there is a cut out and that's where the ejector is going out that way and out of the gun. Alright, now before I show you the gun, I'm because it's rather interesting This furniture by the way, is made of a material called Pertinax, which is essentially ... like and then put under high temperature it into not a plastic so much, it's not Bakelite, I don't think this is a material that would but it was something that So first off, when I take the handguards off you The gas piston is actually guided by the Again, probably something that That's going to go (there we go) We have a very short barrel of course that runs from basically the end of the The muzzle here, this muzzle Which is probably done and keep this a little bit and reduce flash to whatever extent It's a little hard to see, but there is a gas port And there, you can just barely see it. And then interestingly, there is a ... Like it's open at all times, gas pressure is actually pushing the piston Which is ... really kind of a bit unusual. Remember this is one of two guns made, I'm sure they were still in the process to make this run reliably, and to endurance trials We have one screw up I'm going to go ahead and take that off of the working parts. There we go. Pistol grip, integrated trigger guard. And then there is the underside. This is You can see that the overall two flat plates on the sides, So we have a rear trunnion block here We have our front trunnion Got rivets for this guy, and then there's that is going to hold a lot of So when we put the magazine in it sits there, which is really Like this can't possibly work, Well ... right down under my finger there you can see the base of the cartridge That is where the magazine So this claw, when the bolt goes all the You can see that this claw is lined And when I snap that ... all the way forward, that snapping over the When I start to pull that back, the tip of the bullet there start Here we go, with the magazine And it's going to proceed backwards ... like so. There just aren't a lot of good But it going to come Now it is presented ready And when the bolt goes back forward, the and snaps into the chamber ready to fire. Once you fire - my extractor is not But once you fire, it is Now this is a hammer-fired gun. And this guy right here It acts as both the ramp out of the claw up in line with So if I dry fire this, you can see that And then it's going to be reset So I apologise again that this is so But we have two rails in here, we have one And those essentially are So when the round comes out of the in between ... these two rails. Backed up all the way to and held upward by And one of the neat features about the gun have the round pulled back and then I can just take And you can see the round You can see that it is backed all It's under spring tension here. And then when I put the bolt it's going to push up So that is the backward And by the way, in case you are there is this little lever right here. When it pushes down right here, that's going to And this is also actuated by the So small parts, a little bit fiddly, but And while we are in there, this And that's pretty much These top rails are just there The chamber. And no gas tube on it. So this particular example But they don't do any further the Czechs managed to find That's the hot new cartridge, And all of the Czech official of this cartridge to work with from the The Soviets weren't willing to hand out the And so the Czechs kept until I think literally the way they was a Czech weapons designer where there happened to have been a Soviet and literally found a cartridge Like, &quot;What's that?&quot; runs ... And it's like, &quot;We have a cartridge, copy this cartridge And so development of and they switch over to working In 1983 they put together one ... I think But then that also gets cancelled, by the end the whole program is cancelled because Lada was the intent to make a 5.45, essentially a full weapons family. Where you had the PDW and and probably a designated I actually have some Project Lada then also fails the whole communist order And Project Lada transitions into the Anyway, this is the beginning that don't end up going But this is, to my mind, absolutely So I hope you guys enjoyed I'd like to give a very big thanks to the VHU, for giving me access to this to take a look at. In addition to their fantastic basically they also have a really nice So if you're in town, definitely set aside at They have not just the sort of typical but also quite a lot of up and on display to the public, Hopefully you enjoyed the video.