Alright, rookie! Do you really think you're cut see about that! We're not chasing pickpockets mass murder, terrorism, larceny, arson, and to our elbows in threats to national security, Then let's put that to the test, shall we? Why the files for thirteen of our Most Wanted, just criminals who have ever been put away Investigation - and even some of the ones Let's start at the very beginning: Thomas James most wanted list back in 1950! That's when the by the Bureau to seek help from the public last seventy years, more than five hundred names Holden was the one who started it all. His the most wanted fugitives list though. of the Holden-Keating gang alongside his as the pair conducted a mass robbery spree across And they certainly weren't simply pinching the preferred targets were trucks delivering payroll Holden and Keating made off like the bandits before the pair were caught and arrested in 1928, However, things were far from over for Thomas both he and Keating were able to escape from smuggling guns and ammunition inside, aiding the done! He formed another gang, was arrested once sentence alongside notorious gangster Holden shot and killed his wife Lillian in 1949 two men who came to her aid. Eventually, and the FBI was able to get Holden sent to prison for But first, we have a question for you. Have name? Were you surprised by just how many results phone number, and even things like health I couldn't believe how much of my personal me. That's why I've been using Aura, the data brokers are selling my information and removing that information not only has reduced it also protects me from hackers who everything from social media to online banks. have to worry about. AT&amp;T recently revealed customers had their information leaked onto everyone to use stronger passwords, monitor or fraud alerts from credit bureaus. But I this for me! And best of all, I didn't have to a company couldn't keep my data secure. I don't have to worry, because Aura is always on I value my privacy and I value yours. So go to description to start your two week free trial! Oh, you think an infamous thief and murderer from were there, rookie? You sure think highly of your most wanted from this side of the turn of the a Navy veteran and later a firefighter, surgical He had a wife, Mary, and two children, a son And despite his attempts to maintain an image of as a distant control freak of a father. the Fishers' house in Scottsdale, Arizona, was Fisher himself had caused. Police discovered that the explosion. Fisher had shot his wife in the throats of both his own son and daughter from evidence of this triple homicide by pulling out When the pilot light on the house's water heater with the resultant explosion being strong in all directions within half a mile from the burned the house down to a pile of charred rubble, Mary and her two young children lying in a bed time of the murders, Robert Fisher disappeared. expressed her intention to divorce Robert to her the two. Robert was psychologically impacted by He felt threatened by this, and it resulted in could leave him. Oh, what's that, rookie? Do you guess what - since June of 2002, Fisher and as of 2024, he remains at large. Oh, did you Some of the worst of the worst criminals, guilty You might have a roommate you don't always see little too loud or snore while you're trying glad for your roommate's shortcomings. Meet Gary a man who would be hell to live with. Don't who offered Bowles a temporary place to live, only after the two of them had an argument. Bowles six months, enacting a spate of further killings. sickening, as Bowles would frequent numerous gay other patrons to get them alone, then murdering done to his now former roommate. By stealing their from him, Bowles stayed on the move and evaded other roommates temporarily. He became known as lived near the Interstate 95 highway, which Eventually, on the twenty-second of October 1994, wanted list, given that he was considered this point. The added publicity led to several some of whom were lucky enough to Roberts had received from Bowles. A week after the I-95 Killer, was arrested after killing yet down and confessed to six murders in total. He of his homophobic killings and was ultimately September of 1999, with his eventual execution We've heard about some downright evil men most-wanted list, but what about the ladies? the hundreds of names included there, only ten of appear on the list added back in 1968, was Ruth crime she carried out alongside her accomplice and who had recently escaped from prison, disguised the door of a room at the Rodeway Inn in Decatur, staying. Barbara was the daughter of Robert and both Eisemann-Schier and Krist knew it. disguises and claimed that one of Barbara's inside, they chloroformed Barbara's mother, then their car they had waiting outside. You would as bad as it got, but Ruth Eisemann-Schier and buried Barbara alive in a shallow trench, keeping was fitted with a lamp, an air pump, food, water pipes leading inside to supply Barbara with air. killing Barbara Mackle - the plan a five hundred thousand dollar payout from million dollars as of 2023. The ransom was paid, instructions on where to find Barbara. The pair victim after she spent over three days buried wanted list, Ruth Eisemann-Schier was arrested applying for a job at an Oklahoma hospital. she and Krist parted ways, seemingly not on to seven years in prison, then given parole deported back to her home country of Honduras. after one big crime to someone who had his hands next up is one of the most notorious mob bosses thinking of. Decades after the reign of Al Capone, of the Irish mob in Boston from the seventies otherwise known as Whitey. And his long tenure in large part, thanks to the protection Bulger's life of crime started early, joining himself in and out of jail for various assault convicted of a hijacking, he landed in federal including the infamous Alcatraz prison. While experiments conducted by the CIA, wherein they exchange for lessened sentences. Yeah, this guy Leaving prison in 1965, Bulger joined up with the time when rival factions were at war. As part of killing the twin brother of a rival gangster, his criminal career, he'd become known achieve his goals, particularly murder. Hill Gang were arrested in 1979, Bulger quickly all manner of criminal endeavors, including races, extortion, and even more murders, Whitey early as 1974, without the knowledge of his fellow he'd grown up alongside and had been to school gang. The information supplied by Whitey pertained crime families that were on and off allies and Eventually, made aware that his arrest was coming, the run from the Bureau, avoiding being arrested other federal charges. He remained on the most in 2011, then two years later found himself found guilty of thirty-one of the charges he was in prison, with the FBI resolving to investigate Of all the people whose names have ever graced the achievement of making it on their list twice. Earl Ray, the man who assassinated civil rights Ray had been little more than a small-time crook He'd done some prison time, once in Illinois of April 1967, he'd actually managed to Just short of a year later, on the fourth of had been standing on the balcony of a motel room the assassination, James Earl Ray was identified that out conveniently quickly. How or why did a and, within a year, assassinate one of the most in the United States? Draw your own conclusions. from a particular federal agency... but we don't at the FBI. Keep it to yourself, rookie! himself a Canadian passport and headed to London, his strange travel plans were cut short when a the alias he was using from a Canadian wanted to the assassination of MLK, forgoing a trial prison. Months later, he recanted his confession, Then, in June of 1977, James Earl Ray would find managed to escape from Brushy Mountain Prison in was conducted to track the alleged assassin down, years that followed, he would renounce his guilt, surrounding Martin Luther King Jr's death. proving his claims, his pleas to actually to have who have long contested that the FBI themselves From a man whose guilt is still uncertain, to one rightfully earned him a spot on the FBI's most infamy that this sadistic serial killer needs if not arguably the most, notorious Ted Bundy might've seemed outwardly charming he was a depraved and violent monster. women that earned him a juvenile record, Bundy towards a career in law or politics. But his passion was, assaulting his earliest known young college-age women, often keeping his arm crutches to elicit sympathy, and using his with tasks that drew them near to his car. unconscious, handcuff them, and then take them lot of which we can't go into detail on. He would mutilate their bodies after killing them. Bundy bodies into his home, at times displaying their trophies. He also shared a bed with some of decomposition of the bodies made it unbearable. Bundy was eventually arrested but managed to of which landed him on the FBI's most wanted list. Bundy embarked on a continuation of his killing people before he was caught for a traffic taking the lives of thirty people, although the sentenced to death and executed via the electric Of course, Bundy is far from the only infamous there's another who used to be at the very deaths than the notorious serial killer. Osama behind the 9/11 terror attack on the World Trade of terror that made him infamous the world over, over a decade before 2001 and was even present You see, Bin Laden wasn't just responsible in several ever since he formed al-Qaeda in in Afghanistan against CIA-backed mujahadeen foundational members of the Taliban, another a resume of terror attacks in his war against the 1993 Mogadishu bombing, in which Somali rebels eighteen American servicemen. The same year, Bin World Trade Center, which killed six people landed him on the FBI's most wanted list, but he attempted to have Egyptian president Hosni bombed a US Air Force complex in Dhahran, Saudi result of twin bombings at US Embassies in Kenya Then, of course, in 2001, the 9/11 attacks on most wanted man in the world, earning him the put a staggering twenty-five million dollar able to evade being captured or killed, spending until the first of May 2011, when US SEAL Team and shot him. Osama bin Laden had spent almost world and was likely responsible for more deaths How do you like those bad apples, rookie? Still, I get it! You think you'll have nothing to worry ended up behind bars or six feet beneath the by comparison, things will be a cakewalk? of a cakewalk you think this is! Grab that for you to meet some of the people still on the Alexis Flores, born in Honduras in 1975, sustained leaving him with a noticeable surgical scar. a five-year-old girl named Iriana DeJesus time of her disappearance, a homeless drifter arrived in the area. Jorge Contreras, provided shelter and clothing to Carlos in On August the third, 2000, only five days five-year-old Irana DeJesus was found in the had been violently assaulted, strangled, and then on the scene was a t-shirt covered in Irana's to the distinct political logo on it -the shirt Carlos. And the building where Irana's body was have often stayed. All of the evidence seemed to minor... but, in reality, there was no 'Carlos'. Carlos was Alexis Flores. In 2007, this would be crime scene thought to belong to 'Carlos' Alexis Flores had already been back in 2004 on a charge of forgery, leading to he's remained at large and named in the FBI's top any information leading to his capture increasing a million in 2023. As of 2024, though, Alexis A quarter of a million dollars seems like Alexis Flores. But you know what's nicer million dollars? That's the amount the FBI is on Wilver Villegas-Palomino, a man thought to have distribute illegal substances from Colombia Villegas-Palomino is a high-ranking member of the group involved in the ongoing conflict that is classified as a terrorist organization by Canada, New Zealand, and the European Union. of narcoterrorism due to his role in helping this criminal activity and the selling of the organization. According to federal officials, the is used to help fund terrorist attacks, as well actions that they conduct in an attempt Given that Villegas-Palomino is accused he's become another new fixture on the FBI's most However, he was first indicted in February 2020 not only narcoterrorism but also conspiracy to of it. Following the ruling, a federal arrest but his whereabouts remain unknown. aliases including Wilver Villegas or Carlos El Puerco, which translates to Carlos the might be hiding, the FBI has attempted Wilver Villegas-Palomino's whereabouts to are offering a staggering five million US dollars Five million is certainly a hefty payday, special agent. But it also pales in comparison to the Missing Crypto Queen herself. I hope you've mentioned there had only ever been ten women one still out there: Ruja Ignatova. In 2014, proposed rival to the original, longest lasting Back in 2016, interest in cryptocurrency was at frenzy throwing heaps of money at what they saw I mean to make more money. Garnering attention Bitcoin Killer that would become big enough to Built in reality, OneCoin was a highly fraudulent the money being funneled into OneCoin by newer since more and more investors were being roped And all the while, Ruja Ignatova was pocketing OneCoin stole approximately the equivalent of four investors all across the globe. Naturally, this OneCoin in scalding hot water, with most of them Konstantin Ignatova, pled guilty to committing the OneCoin scheme, but Ruja Ignatova has still someone tipping her off that the police were back in 2017, she was able to disappear. Since all kinds of fraud imaginable and found her name For a brief time, there were rumors that Ignatova at the behest of a Bulgarian drug lord back to conceal the drug lord's involvement in the being dismembered and thrown overboard. However, More recently, it seemed like Ignatova had she bought - yes, with funds from her fake Ruja Ignatova could have been orchestrating the four-bedroom penthouse she had filled with was forced to go into hiding. However, her name thanks to UK transparency laws, which meant she for anyone who lost their money in Ignatova's on her whereabouts is only two hundred compared to the amount she made by duping From a crypto scammer to a North Carolina killer, a hefty quarter of a million dollar price on twenty-five-year-old fugitive might be the best he took the life of a former girlfriend... Castillo worked in a Showmars restaurant in Ly Le, known to her friends as Sandy. The pair of Castillo borrowed some money from Sandy, which Now, with a new girlfriend, Ahmia Feaster, telling her he wants to repay the money she had Castillo to the place they'd agreed. But instead forced her, possibly at gunpoint, to withdraw which totaled to the last thousand dollars she have then driven Sandy to a wooded area and shot before stealing her car alongside Ahima Feaster. and eventually crossed the border into Mexico. reached out to her mother and was extradited back Castillo had just vanished one day, even though believe Castillo could still be in Mexico contact with friends or family back in the US. out. Are you married, rookie? I only ask because it's that marriage can be more trouble than it's for the rest of your life, maybe even with someone we're talking about here. Worst case? Well, you On the eleventh of May, 2012, Estrella Carrera After sharing a celebratory dinner with family night away at a club, eventually leaving at around heated. And not in the way they usually do on a an argument, which resulted in Jimenez fatally car. He then dragged her body into her apartment still wearing the silver dress she had worn earlier - less than a full day after the wedding. a nine-year-old daughter from a previous had with Jimenez. When she didn't arrive to pick something was clearly wrong. She was reported discovered the following day, May Thirteenth and Jimenez was nowhere to be found. Three days and both a state and a federal warrant But despite his car being found on his with Estrella Carrera's blood inside, nobody murder took place. The FBI believes he might be drove him there in his car and left him there. the FBI increased their initial reward for from one hundred thousand to two hundred and and the whereabouts of the numerous other names Now check out "50 Insane Declassified FBI Secrets