Hello, Health Champions! Today we're going to foods to starve cancer. But in order to make any understand what cancer likes. If we're going The primary cause of cancer is glucose. There's discuss in detail shortly. There is also and different chemicals that can cause mutations cell to a cancer cell. Additionally, a lot where cancers thrive. When we have a weak immune The normal situation is that a certain but with a normal immune system, we can clean that might give cancer the upper hand. that can drive cancer, and then there is have an imbalance in your bacterial flora--can I gave each one of these items a little icon along the way. But the number one thing is that when we talk about cancer-fighting most people start thinking with a pill mentality. that's going to go in and strike out all the evil we have to realize that there are certain things factors in, there's nothing else we can do to make avoid all the different factors that give cancer are some really good foods--some categories, some the immune system, etc., and might be able to The Warburg effect basically observes that cancer normal cells; they come from your body's own cells differently and prefer different fuel. There are whether it's a normal body cell or a cancer and the other way is called oxidative we make ATP from ADP. Glycolysis can happen need oxygen to perform that reaction, whereas There are two types of fuel: one either of these two pathways. If we use some enter into the oxphos pathway--you can only glucose can be used either way. A normal, is going to use primarily oxphos because we that normal body cell can also rely on glycolysis, said, oxygen is the normal situation. However, a it relies primarily on glycolysis--it's its can perform oxidative phosphorylation and use it will favor glycolysis. A normal cell is Here's why this becomes super important: and you don't have to remember all the details, oxygen is more efficient; we can get more energy and that's what the cancer cell really it's gone rogue; it tries to grow as fast as if we load up the system with glucose and we're feeding the cancer cells, giving them their This also means that the worse the cancer the faster-growing it is, the more sugar-loving This is how they diagnose these things where they light up on the screen because absorbing the most glucose and growing the it becomes rather obvious what kinds cancer. That's obviously low-carb or, for made lots of videos on that, but I'll run Avocado, for example, leafy greens, butter, and coconut oil--these are all healthy low-carb foods include meat, fish, and chicken. sources--grass-fed meat, wild-caught fish, it's always going to be better. high-fiber, and don't raise blood glucose It's important to realize that doesn't necessarily mean these are need to understand what these foods have in similar foods. Basically, any real food Additionally, even though these foods effect and starve cancer cells because if they're real, will also reduce or be neutral oxidative stress, immune system imbalances, very different from an isolated chemical one of these factors. It might fit into one but it's not going to create a complete, Since inflammation is a driving factor for cancer, or at the very least, are neutral. That would we eat high carb and become insulin for inflammation. There are other natural and ginger that can actually have a natural is berries; they contain anthocyanins. Fatty fish, effect on inflammatory responses. It's not like but it helps the body modulate and balance Another example is broccoli, which contains we have things like flavonoids. Extra something called oleocanthal. Again, but realize that there are many other real similar compounds. Even though we're focusing a lot of these foods will actually help Next, we have carcinogens and chemicals that the the liver. If the liver is overburdened that's not so great. So, we want to cut those support. What helps the liver? I've done specific because those things create a fatty liver, contain something called glucosinolates. Tomatoes detoxification pathways. In the allium family, like garlic, we have sulfur compounds that which is a very important nutrient for the liver I hope you're starting to see the pattern. are going to be very similar to this. If then we're not limited to certain foods, pills or magic bullets. Again, we've focused on be harmful--but if they're whole foods, they will Foods can be immune-boosting too. Garlic and are antibacterial in themselves, so if you have an things on their own, like a natural antibiotic. with balancing and stimulating the immune system, the production of white blood cells, which are is mushrooms; they contain something called Bell peppers contain vitamin C, which is also people talk about citrus fruits, especially orange gallon as if that were the only source of vitamin C than citrus fruits, but they have a fraction something that could be good if it also contains though I'm mentioning certain compounds contained contain these or similar compounds. And again, foods are natural, whole, alive, and fresh, What about hormone balance? What does that have associated with driving cancer: estrogen and females and breast cancer, but there are other insulin is the primary factor. If we have high that's the primary factor that will deregulate make sure that our insulin levels are okay. Again, especially if you're insulin resistant. the fewer carbs you want to eat. Broccoli called indole-3-carbinol, which has been What's important for both inflammation a lot of healthy fats. Fatty fish high in which are high in monounsaturated fats and are for the body to perform many of its functions. many other real foods similar to these can Finally, we want to choose foods to reduce contain natural antioxidants, and those are But it doesn't mean that more antioxidants and then they run to the store and buy That's not a good idea because oxidation and turn it into energy, we oxidize that and then need these natural antioxidants it is totally possible to eat a bunch of these with energy production. Long-term studies have antioxidants live shorter lives. It actually takes we want to go about it. We want to get things it out naturally, not mega doses that interfere These natural antioxidants can be found turmeric, tomatoes, and pomegranates--all antioxidants in virtually every type of as well as many other real foods, and assist you with all these different Gut health is tied to immune function--your happens in the gut. Your inflammatory allergies, and autoimmune responses all depend on intact it is. Additionally, your hormone balance goes on in the gut can affect hormone signaling. The foods for gut health aren't always totally of the things you're supposed to take, some might not be tolerated well. If you get then that's a sign of an imbalance, and like more information on that, I'll put it down people long distance, where we can do some of One of the first things you want to have is foods that contain bacteria that are good for your them can colonize, set up shop, and help balance but in doing so, they outcompete some of environment and keeping some of the others down. kimchi, yogurt, and kefir, and you can Then, you have prebiotic foods. The first spores--but prebiotics are the foods that feed the onion, garlic, and leeks; they contain (fructo-oligosaccharides). We also have of fiber and polyphenols, and cruciferous Brussels sprouts, and cabbage. These also and other compounds that can selectively feed haven't figured it out yet, in addition to the real foods as well. So, don't limit yourself to special in some ways, they're not unique; I started off by saying that while it's important don't eat. So let's compare and contrast mechanisms that create cancer and see First, we have high sugar and white flour in made from sugar and white flour, which we are violating the principle of not feeding the intake of sugar and white flour will most common mechanism in driving insulin we immediately knock out the second principle of food that's high in sugar and white flour is also a strike for oxidative stress here. Additionally, of chemicals--artificial sweeteners, artificial stabilizers, preservatives, etc. Not only are some don't find out for another few years), but a lot other countries. These chemicals will also create it doesn't just affect one thing--something different things. Already, we have four Processed foods also create immune system on your immune system, so we get a big red how are processed foods for hormones? We know insulin, and insulin resistance, and insulin about earlier. But also, many of these chemicals meaning they unbalance your hormone system. Many to a hormone and fit into the same receptor, stimulate it, or fit into it and stop it, so you of this endocrine dysregulation. Processed food is What about gut health? What does processed food do health is to all of these different factors--and directions, meaning that these mechanisms cause and dysregulation of your biome, but then that and worsen all of these different things--we start idea. Ninety percent of what you eat should be with it, when we add chemicals and repackage Here's one example of such an item. It's very but you've all heard of it. If an ingredient something you want to consume. But here's we have a culture where there are thousands and then they try to help you understand this facts. The only thing you get to evaluate whether We've just gone through and shown that all seven heavily influenced by these different factors try to understand this based on calories and tell the story. Learn to understand what real If you enjoyed this video, you're going to health by understanding how the body really and turn on all the notifications so