ANTONIO PADILLA: Imagine you googolplex meters across, Then, that's very big. And if you actually traveled far you would start to You would start to see exact RIA SYMONDS: Today, we've ANTONIO PADILLA: A Google. RIA SYMONDS: A googol. ANTONIO PADILLA: As RIA SYMONDS: Kind of, It's spelt G-O-O-G-O-L, 10 So imagine that's a 1 with ANTONIO PADILLA: And it came a guy called Kasner, who He was also very famous RIA SYMONDS: And it wasn't him He just thought of a He thought, what's a big ANTONIO PADILLA: And he wanted And he wanted to come up with that wasn't really big at all RIA SYMONDS: And he actually nine-year-old nephew, what's a ANTONIO PADILLA: His nephew &quot;googol.&quot; But it's quite I don't think it's that But it's quite a big number. I mean to put it into yourself well, OK, how many inside this room? You think that's a lot, right? That's going to be a lot It's only about 50 billion, So you might ask well, let's Well, how many particles are Now, that's 10 to the 80, a That's how many particles there So a googol is bigger And you could ask yourself OK, could I fit in the universe? Say the universe was full of grains of sand can I fit And that would be about 10 90 0's after it. It's quite a big number. But it's not that big. There's certainly stuff that's BRADY HARAN: You're saying it's all these things that we think the universe, and atoms in the aren't even touching it. So it must be big. ANTONIO PADILLA: Well yeah, something that is bigger than physically. So if you take the smallest is a Planck volume, so it's its radius is a Planck length, meters, and you see how many observable universe. And you get about 10 to the 183, 0's after it. So that is bigger So googols aren't We can think of things RIA SYMONDS: He then thought, than a googol? And for that he took 10 and power of a googol, So this is taking 10 and 10 and 10 and 10, and timesing And this number is called ANTONIO PADILLA: We start And let's suppose-- well, we're paper here. But let's suppose we write it down on particles. So for each particle, we're So first particle, we write down write down a 0. And we carry on doing particle in the universe. And we still would not be able It's too big a number. And there's something else googolplex. And I find this astonishing. This should emphasize how Imagine you had a universe which across, OK, a big universe. And some models of eternal that, you do get universes which So we have a universe which is Then, that's very big. And if you actually traveled far you would start to You would start to see exact Now, you might think, talking about here, Brady? But let's take you, Brady. Let's ask how many quantum that you occupy, OK? The number of quantum states the total number is, and It's something to do with stuff like that. But you can work it out. And it is 10 to the That's the number of different that you could actually put So that number is less BRADY HARAN: So the space I'm you, it could be a dog, ANTONIO PADILLA: Yes. BRADY HARAN: It could ANTONIO PADILLA: All those number of different ways. Particles might not But all those possible states, occupy, the number of possible the 10 to the 70. A big number, but not as But 10 to the googol is equal So this number is clearly So you occupy roughly about There's that many different you could be in. So if you go this many meters start to expect to So that means if you're in a big as a googolplex meters would start to see repetitions volumes of 1 meter cubed. BRADY HARAN: So just by chance, another arrangement of atoms ANTONIO PADILLA: Exactly. Exactly. Exactly. It matches you exactly. And then you'd go even bigger, sort of the entire observable So this is truly remarkable. I think the fact that you would doppelganger if you went far universe, I think it just sort number really is. The size of the universe is 10 cubed, that's the size So this number is tiny BRADY HARAN: So there's probably this universe. ANTONIO PADILLA: Probably not. But if we live in a universe then there probably is.