When people talk about Metro Exodus, they But what do we actually mean when we use that Because, this is a term that is not very well I've seen it used to describe games with VR titles. Immersive sims. And I've seen people call a game immersive the world around you. It's just a super vague term, and it's more design lingo. And yet, I totally get what people mean when Because this game achieves something I don't genuinely feel a sense of existing in the In fact, i've only felt it a few times before, of Chernobyl, Event[0], and Far Cry 2. And it's not to the extent where I forget think I'm wandering around Africa or post I'm not a complete idiot. But it just sells me on the feeling of being than most other games. And in a year that is already jam-packed with crafting systems and drivable vehicles - Metro that feeling of being in a nuclear wasteland. And so, in this video, I want to bust apart totally tangible design decisions that are into the world of Metro Exodus. Now, for some background, the first two Metro place in the ruins of a Moscow that has been The surface is a deadly, irradiated hell-scape the underground Metro tunnels are safe, warm, These games are primarily linear shooters. But Exodus is something quite different. In this one, hero Artyom and his pals decide post-war Russia to look for a safe place to They travel first on foot, and then later Along your journey, you'll stop off at various Sometimes that's for linear levels that But at other-times you get dropped off in of the Volga river, or a sparse sandy desert: And it's in these tiny open worlds that So the first, and most obvious way that Metro rarely takes you out of the in-game world. So your map is sellotaped to a leather binder, strapped to your wrist. And when you're crafting something, you've get your materials out. Where other games would definitely make this makes them physical and tangible parts of from the world around you is when you pause And there's an interesting byproduct of vulnerable when performing these actions. You don't pause the game to craft things it in real time, in the world. So if you quickly need to craft a medkit in place and hastily get your bag out and patch Of course, it's possible to take this stuff A game like Red Dead Redemption 2 really focused the world, with hyper detailed animations catalogue of cowboy hats. But, at times, it tipped the balance into interesting gameplay consequences. But there's more to Exodus's grounded Something we see in a lot of open world games You grab currency as you play through the - from basic actions to superhero powers. Again, Exodus keeps things in the game world: character are from things you can actually that you rip off discarded weapons, or handy Metro Exodus actually feels like scavenging, while these other games are more akin to, well, shopping. Another key way that Metro Exodus achieves of your surroundings and your status. It does this, in part, by asking you to constantly So your gas mask needs its filter replaced And any cracks and holes in the glass have You've got a gas-powered rifle, and you using it. Your guns have to be regularly cleaned, or Your electrical gear, like your headlamp and hand crank when the power runs low. And your health doesn't regenerate, so you It's this sort of regular personal maintenance your character and your needs. We generally see this sort of gameplay in energy and becoming more hungry - and by having come from, you become more immersed in the I'd argue, however, that a lot of these These meters bottom out so quickly that you energy all the time. And now you're no longer thinking about of The Sims-style meters that always need Exodus takes a much lighter touch: Artyom the only punishment for letting something But it's enough of a concern to occupy some of yourself. Same goes for the harsh resource scarcity. You are regularly running out of ammo in this before every engagement because you need to alive. Maybe it's better to just let the enemies You can craft stuff, as I said, but there This is not a game where you can sellotape So, for one, Metro Exodus only has two crafting And because everything comes from the same decisions about where to spend your scrap. Do you make health packs? Or ammo? Or filters? Or grenades? You can't have everything. And, also, Metro limits the things you can Because while you can piece together bullets only ammo you can make when out and about So you have to think ahead about what you'll The main way that Exodus makes you more aware most open world games do - which is filling tiny points of interest. No. In Exodus, your map is empty (outside of your it up. You can do this by getting somewhere high, the lens on curious locations. When you actually reach that location, though, Exodus open world game. So, the third way that Exodus lures you into about what's going on. You see, when you play something like Rage on the map is as soon as you get within 100 In this case, it's a bandit camp. And so, just like the 20-or-so other bandit has a number of bad guys that you need to It even tells you what resources you can find But Metro Exodus gains a great deal by not So, here, I came across a wrecked airplane Outside, I found and killed a flying gargoyle Then I went inside, and found a bunch of monsters pull up outside and start shouting at me. I then fought them off, until one gave up I didn't know exactly what was happening and I didn't know what to expect. And I didn't know if I would be rewarded I just had to become fully immersed in the experience Because when developers have systems in their reveal to the player. Games like Rage 2 and Far Cry New Dawn are can withhold that information, and keep you happen next. Like, when enemies surrender, you're left Will they sneak up behind your back? Or run away? What happens if you kill them? You just don't know. Here's another story. There was a time in the Caspian area where and was plunged into a frantic, dusty firefight. And then a short while later I slept in a surrounding me outside. I genuinely still have no idea whether these driven by the AI. But it doesn't matter because the effect and anxiety-inducing moments. Compare that to something like a scavenger They've got an icon over their head, and it's immediately obvious that this is a be repeated over and over again. It feels gamey and inauthentic. As always, there's a balance to strike. some games end up being so withholding about And players need a certain amount of information and play with intentionality. So it's not just about being completely ever finding the edges of the simulation. The final element, is player reactivity. I think the most believable and immersive react to your presence and decisions. Metro Exodus certainly has a bunch of this. You can holster your gun as you approach people, appreciate it. And choosing to save characters, like slaves later on. In one section in the Volga I saved some people, And then, later, I used that key to unlock a pair of night vision goggles. That felt amazing, and the goggles became Exodus also has characters who ask you to teddy bear. This doesn't turn into a checklist in your reward for your actions. But the way the game reacts to your kindness totally worth going out of your way. This all plays into the morality system, which It's one of those systems where it weighs and then plays a good or bad ending cutscene And the bad ending will probably get canonically And so there are games that do player reactivity in the future. But it's an important part of immersion, So Metro Exodus shows four key ways to make It keeps things grounded by having all of in-world. It asks you to be hyper aware of your existence equipment, and scout ahead with your binoculars. It withholds information about the game's quite know what will be around the next corner. And it reacts to you, by commenting on, rewarding, The immersive thrills of Metro are about more sound design, or the fact that you can play ANNA: *Speaking Russian* And there's more to it than the simple fact character doesn't speak. Those are all important, but it's these Exodus feels like more than a game. It's a harrowing, unknowable, uncharted Hey, thanks for watching! Remember that the GMTK Game Jam begins in GMTK is paid for by fans who support the show everyone who supports the show - no matter