(bright music) - Welcome to A Conversation With History, I'm Harry Kreisler of the Institute of International Studies. Our guest today is Noam Chomsky. Noam, welcome to Berkley. Where were you born and raised? - I was born in Philadelphia, 1928. Stayed there til I went University of Pennsylvania, then went off to Harvard in a research fellowship, When I was done with and I've been in Boston ever since. Around Boston since about 1950. - Your parents both and taught Hebrew school? - My father was professionally and his main work was Hebrew grammar, and my mother was a Hebrew teacher. My father sort of ran in the city of Philadelphia. My mother taught in it. He taught in Hebrew college later. There's a university of Jewish studies, graduate university of Jewish studies, that's the college which he taught in. But they were all part of what amounted to a kind of Hebrew ghetto, Jewish ghetto, in Philadelphia. Not physical ghetto, it was but cultural ghetto. - And was Hebrew the - No. - Second. It was in the background. So for example, by the say Friday evening, my Hebrew literature together. - [Harry] And looking back, shaped your perspectives on the world? - Well, those are always very because it's a combination which is difficult to sort out. I mean, undoubtedly, the background has shaped the kinds of interests and tendencies and but it was... It was independent. I mean I think more direct influences actually came from other - [Harry] Mhm, please, go ahead. - Well, my parents were immigrants and they happened to but my mother from New York, and my father from Baltimore. When he came over in his family went to Baltimore and my mother's family, from another part of came to New York. And there were two different families, there was the New York family and we were in the middle in Philadelphia. So we naturally went out The families were totally different. Now, the Baltimore family In fact, my father told me that they had become more than they even were in the shtetl, the little town in Ukraine In general there was a tendency among some sectors of immigrants to intensify the cultural tradition, probably as a way of in a strange environment, I suppose. So that was that family. The other part of the family, my mother's, was mainly Jewish working class. Very radical, the Jewish This was the 1930s, so they of radical activism that in all sorts of ways. And of all of them, the one who actually did was an uncle by marriage, who was an extremely interesting person. He came into the family when and became a big influence. Married my aunt. He was brought up in New York, also from an immigrant family, but he'd grown up in a In fact, he himself never It was, you're on the streets, you know? This criminal background, What's going on in the under He happened to have a physical deformity, so he was able to get a newsstand under a compensation program for people with disabilities. He had a newsstand on Lived nearby in a little apartment. And I spent a lot of time there. That newsstand became for emigres from Europe, lots of German and other and he was a very educated person. Like I said, never went past fourth grade, but maybe the most educated self-educated. Without going through the whole story, he ended up being a lay analyst on a riverside apartment in New York, but the newsstand itself was a very lively intellectual center with arguing all night, and working at the - So newspapers and events of the world were mixed up with ideas, almost like a coffee - Yeah, the newspapers were so for example I went for years thinking that there was a The reason is that as people and raced past the newsstand, they'd say, &quot;Newsinmira.&quot; Well, I heard it that way, and I gave them two tabloids, which I later discovered (laughs) I noticed that as they the first thing they opened - I see, I see. (laughs) This is an eight year But yeah, there were newspapers there, but that was kind of like the background of the discussions that were going on. And then through him and I kind of got myself involved in the ongoing 30s radicalism. And that was very much Zionist oriented, this Palestine-oriented life. And that was a good part of my life. I became a Hebrew teacher, myself, for Zionist youth, later, combining it with the radical Actually, that's the way - One of the formative influences, as I understand it, in was reading George Orwell. And also in terms of events, really in addition to the Depression, the Spanish Civil War. Tell us a little about that mix. - It came the other way. Orwell's great book, in my Homage to Catalonia, I think it was first published 1937, but it was suppressed. A couple hundred copies published. Both in England and the United States, it was essentially suppressed. The reason was it was very anti-communist, and in those days that didn't sell. During the second World War because you couldn't be, you So it didn't sell, what he was doing. I think his book finally this is from memory so but I think it was around 1947 or '48, with an introduction by Lionel Trilling, and it was presented as a Cold I mean Orwell, who had died And that's when I found but I'd been interested long before. - And you actually wrote, your first essay was as a ten year old on the Spanish Civil War. What did you say then, and what do you think now about how that event and your - Well, the article, like you (laughs) I'm sure I would not But I remember what it was about, because I remember what struck me. This was right after The fascist forces had that was essentially the end The article was about the So it started off by talking about Munich, and Barcelona and the spread which was extremely frightening. And then just to add a little we happened to be, for the only Jewish family in Catholic neighborhood. Sort of a lower middle class neighborhood, which was very anti-Semitic, I mean it's obvious you know, they hated the British, not surprising the Germans were. But I can remember beer and the sense of the spreading over Europe I could pick up my mother's she was terrified by it. And it was also in my personal life, 'cause I saw the streets. Interesting, for some reason, which I do not understand to this day, my brother and I never talked I don't think they knew that we were living in an But on the streets, you know, you go out and play ball with the kids or try to walk to the bus or something, it was a constant threat. And it was just the kind of thing you didn't talk to your parents about. You knew, for some reason, To the day of their death, they didn't know. But there was this that this cloud was and picking up, particularly, my mother's attitudes, my father too, but more constrained, and knowing from the uncles and aunts, some of the background, and living it in the streets that made it very real. Anyhow, by the late 30s I in Spanish anarchism and where all this was being It was right before the but a kind of microcosm, By the time I was old enough around 10 or 11, I would go stay with my aunts and uncles and hang around at anarchist bookstores down around Union Square There were little bookstores from emigres. Really interesting people, to my mind they looked about 90, they were maybe in the 40s or something. (laughs) These people who were very they wanted young people to come along. I spent a lot of attention this real education. And then out of that, it was with that background. It was long before I heard of Orwell. - These experiences we've described, you were saying that it but it also led you into and of the world, and you know, you're a and when one hears that in the way issues are and you know why there's because of things that you've written. Help us understand what that means, in other words, it doesn't or no government, necessarily. - Well remember, the United States is sort of out of the Britain is to a limited extent, but the United States is like, on Mars. So here, the term libertarian of what it always meant in history. Libertarian, throughout meant socialist anarchist. It meant the socialist and the socialist movement sort of broke into two branches, roughly. One statist, one anti-statist. The statist branch led to Bolshevism and Lenin and Trotsky, and so on. The anti-statist branch, left Marxists, Pannekoek, to kind of merge, more or less, into an amalgam with a into what was called So libertarian in Europe, Here it means ultra, you know, Ayn Rand, or Cato Institute or something like that. But that's a special US usage, having to do with a lot of things quite special about the way and this is part of it. There it meant, and always meant, to me, socialist, and the anti-state which meant highly organized society, completely organized, But based on a democracy That means democratic of workplaces, of federal structures, built on systems of voluntary association spreading internationally. That's traditional anarchism. At least, anybody can have but it's a mainstream, probably the mainstream and it has roots, you know, coming back to the United States, it has very strong roots in the American working class movement. So if you go back to, say, the 1850s, the beginnings of the this was right around in eastern Massachusetts the people working in those plants were in part, young women They were called factory girls. So the women come to the farms, Some of them were Irish and that group of people. They had an extremely rich So kind of like my uncle who very educated, reading modern literature. They didn't bother with that had no effect on them, but the general literary culture they were very much a part of, and they developed their own conceptions of how the world ought to be organized. They had their own newspapers. In fact, the period of the was probably around the 1850s. In the 1850s the scale meaning run by factory was scale of the commercial And these were independent newspapers, a lot of interesting scholarship on them, you can read 'em now. Just spontaneously, never heard of Marx or Now, they developed the same ideas. They thought that, from what they called wage-slavery, renting yourself to an owner, was not very different that they were fighting and you have to recall that that was a common view For example, it was the position It was Abraham Lincoln's position. It was not an odd view, that there isn't much difference between selling yourself So the idea of renting yourself, meaning working for wages, was degrading. It was just an attack on And they despised the industrial that was destroying their culture, destroying their independence, constraining them to be There was a tradition of in the United States, we're free people. The first free people in the world. This was destroying and This was the core of the and included in it was the assumption, just taken for granted, I'm quoting, &quot;Those who work in the In fact, one of their main they condemned what they called &quot;Gain wealth, forgetting all but self.&quot; (laughs) That idea, the new spirit, that you should only be interested in gaining wealth and to other people. They regarded it as just a violation of fundamental human nature, and a degrading idea. Well that grew into, that was a strong, rich, American culture, which was crushed by violence. The United States has a Much more so than Europe. Now, it was wiped out over a long period, but with extreme violence. By the time it picked that's when I sort of personally came into the tail end of it. Right after the second World So by now it's forgotten. But it's very real, and see, I don't really think it's forgotten, I think it's just below the surface in people's consciousness. - And this is a continuing problem, and it's something that emerges mainly the extent to which histories and traditions are forgotten, and actually to really often means going back and - Things like this, they're forgotten in the intellectual culture, but my feeling is they're probably alive in the popular culture, in people's sentiments and attitudes and understanding and so on. I mean, I know when I talk to, say, working classes audiences today, and I talk about these ideas, they seem very natural to them. I mean, it's true, but when you bring it up, I mean, the idea that you have to and follow their orders and that they own, and you work there, and you built it but you don't own it, it's a highly unnatural notion, and you don't have to study to see that this is just - So coming out of this tradition, being influenced by it, and what is your notion of legitimate power? Under what circumstances - Well, the core of the as I understand it, is that power is always illegitimate unless it proves itself to be legitimate. So the burden of proof is always on those who claim that some authoritarian, hierarchic relation is legitimate. If they can't prove it, then Can you ever prove it? Well, it's a heavy but I think sometimes you can bear it. So to take a homely example, if I'm walking down the street with my four year old granddaughter, and she starts to run into the street and I grab her arm and pull her back that's an exercise of power and authority but I think I can give Obvious what the justification would be. And maybe there are other cases where you can justify it, but the question that for most, in our mind, is It's the responsibility of to show that somehow it's legitimate. It's not the responsibility of anyone else to show that it's illegitimate. It's illegitimate by assumption. If it's a relation of which places some above others, then that's illegitimate by assumption. Unless you can give a strong argument to show that it's right, you've lost. It's kind of like the use of violence, say, in international affairs. There's a very heavy by anyone who calls for violence. Maybe it can be sometimes justified, personally I'm not a committed pacifist, so I think that yes, it So I thought, in fact in fourth grade, I thought the West should be using force to try to stop fascism, But now I know a lot more about it, I know that the West was supporting Franco, supporting and even Hitler. I didn't know that at the time, but I thought then, and I think now, that the use of force to stop that plague would have been legitimate, and finally, was legitimate. But an argument has to be given for it. - Is there less of a burden of proof when you're looking at looking at the powerless, basically, is the burden of proof less for them? - No, same. - I mean, take, say, people living under a military occupation, or under racist regimes and so on. Now, they have a right to resist, actually everyone in the world except the United States and Israel believes they have a right to exist. If you look at the UN resolutions. - Talking about Palestine now, yeah. - Palestine or South Africa, I mean, if you take a there are major UN One in 1987 denouncing the plague of international terrorism, calling on everyone to it passed with two negative votes, the United States and Israel. The reason was exactly It said said &quot;Nothing in this resolution &quot;will prejudice the right of people &quot;to struggle for &quot;and colonialist regimes and That referred to South Africa and Israel. So therefore the United States objected, because it opposed, it of people to struggle against and foreign occupation. The US and Israel are alone in that. When the US votes against a resolution, it's out of history, so but it's there. The war against terrorism, the US is alone in opposing it. Now, grant, I believe that and that the US is wrong. There is a right to resist and foreign military occupation, but then comes your question. Is there a right to use Well, no, I think the burden of proof is on those who say there and that's a hard burden to meet, both morally and tactically, and frankly I think it - I'm curious, I think where you have tried to separate your approach in science to but I'm curious as to whether, I'll ask the question again, let me ask you this, how does your approach to affect and influence the - See, I think studying science is a good way to get - Okay. - The reason is you learn You learn what evidence is. You learn what makes sense What's going to be convincing. You sort of internalize the which happen to be much more advanced in the sciences than anywhere else. On the other hand, you know, applying relativity theory to history isn't going to get you anywhere. - No, no, yeah. (laughs) - It's a mode of thinking, and I try at least, with what success others have to judge, to use the mode of thinking that you would use in the and I think it's a good idea to do so. As to other connections, there may be some but If you think about the core notions of what I was calling anarchism, which as I say, is just deeply rooted in popular traditions everywhere, for good reasons, I think, it's based on a certain conception of, if you sort of try to take it apart, it's based on some kind of conception of what Bakunin once called That people have an instinctive drive for freedom from domination and control, and I think that's, you can't prove it, but it's probably true. The core of the work that I've been interested in in language, is also interested in a The cognitive capacity and its roots in our nature. Now, historically, people between this. So if you look at the, say, 18th century Enlightenment this connection was explicitly drawn. So if you read Rousseau, or the connection between human freedom as in the social and political realm, and human freedom in the creative use of cognitive capacities, they did try to establish a connection. Now if you ask, &quot;Can this be connected The answer is no. It's just a sort of a parallel intuition which doesn't link up empirically, but maybe could someday if we knew enough. - You said somewhere, I on power, &quot;You can lie &quot;of the French Revolution &quot;and nothing will happen. &quot;Propose a false theory in chemistry, &quot;and it will be refuted tomorrow.&quot; - Yeah, that's the kind of thing I mean. Nature's tough. You can't fiddle with mother Nature, she's a hard task mistress. So you're forced to be honest In the soft fields, you're Nobody's gonna undermine, I mean, there are standards, of course. On the other hand, they're very weak, and if what you propose is that is, supportive of power systems, you can get away with a huge amount. In fact the difference that are imposed on dissident opinion and on mainstream opinion I might give you concrete - [Harry] Yeah, do. - Okay, so for example, if say I've written about terrorism and I think you can show that terrorism pretty I don't think that's very surprising. But the more powerful states are involved in more and the United States so it's involved in massive terrorism by its own definition of terrorism. Well, if I want to establish that, I'm required to give a and I think that's a good thing, I don't object to that. I think anyone who makes that claim should be held to very high standards, through extensive documentation from the internal secret record, from historical record, and so on, and if you ever find a comma misplaced, somebody ought to criticize you for it. So I think those standards are fine. Now, let's suppose that you So, for example, Yale University Press just came out with a volume The contributors are leading historians, many of them Yale, the You read the book the Age of Terror, the first thing you notice is There isn't a single reference. They're just off the top Some of the statements are but there are no criteria, there are no intellectual The reviews of the book are very favorable and laudatory, and maybe I mean, I think a lot of it's wrong, and demonstrably wrong, but it doesn't really matter. You can say anything you want, because you're supporting power and nobody expects you For example, if I was, say, in the unimaginable circumstance that I was on, say, Nightline, and I was asked, say, &quot;Do you I could say, &quot;Yeah, I don't need any evidence. Suppose I said George Bush is a terrorist. Well then I would be &quot;No, you can't say that.&quot; - So you aren't cut off, right then. - See, and in fact the structure of the news production system is you can't produce evidence. In fact, there's even a name for it. I learned it from the Jeff Greenfield, it's called concision. He was asked in an interview somewhere why they didn't have me on Nightline, and his answer was, two answers, first of all, he says, &quot;Well he talks Turkish, But the other answer was, &quot;He lacks concision.&quot; Which is correct, I agree with him. Now, the kinds of things that you can't say in one sentence, because they depart If you want to repeat the religion you can get away with it between two commercials. If you wanna say something you're expected to give evidence, and that you can't do so therefore you lack concision so therefore you can't talk. I think that's a terrific To impose concision is a way that the party line gets and that nothing else is heard. - And this is why so much of your work in the area of politics has really been focused on what you call the Mainly, the framing of issues, the way topics are put off and so in the end what your work suggests is that in focusing on that and coming to understand that then there's hope for really understanding the problems we confront. - Oh yeah, actually, I should say, the term manufacturing I took it from Walter Lippmann, the leading public figure of the 20th century, who thought it was a great idea. He said, &quot;We should manufacture consent. &quot;That's the way democracy should work. &quot;There should be a small &quot;and the rest of the &quot;and you should force them to consent &quot;by regimenting their minds.&quot; That's the leading idea and the public relations So I'm not making it up, I'm and telling other people what they think. But yeah, that's very important, and yes, there is hope. I think ordinary common sense suffices, no special training, like my uncle, to unravel this and see I don't think it's hard to discover that the US is a leading terrorist state, I think it's obvious. - And when one reads your arguments, really, what you're laying Namely, if I can paraphrase, that if you're suddenly calling Iraq a rogue state in the 90s, well, what were you calling it in the 80s? And were they doing the same thing? And at that time, were And this is your critique - Well, you know, I think, I mean, if George Bush tells and Tony Blair tells us, in this case, that we can't let Saddam Hussein survive because he's the most evil man in history, he even used chemical weapons I agree that far. But it gives hypocrisy a You have to add, &quot;Yes, &quot;against his own people, &quot;with the support of Daddy Bush, &quot;who continued to support &quot;knowing what he was doing, &quot;helped him develop weapons &quot;welcomed him as a friend and ally, &quot;gave him lavish aid Unless you add that, it's just, like I said, giving hypocrisy a bad name. Well, nobody does that. You can read the commentary and the learned opinion, and they just stop, &quot;used chemical weapons Now, this is not difficult to understand. I think you can explain this to children in school, you know? And it takes major effort for the educated classes to prevent people from and that takes dedication. It would be a lot easier Now, this is one example, So, take, say, by the late 1990s, the last few years, there was a huge chorus of about how we're entering in which the enlightened states bring humanitarian ideals to the world for the first time in history, following principles and values, and the proof of it is Well, at the very same moment, the same people were actively supporting terrorist atrocities which went way beyond anything charged to Milosevic in Kosovo. In fact, I just happened to come back from the site of one of where massive atrocities were going on. - Where the Turkish government is committing atrocities - Yes, that's true, but is the US government is - [Harry] By providing aide. - By providing virtually 80% of the arms, and in an increasing flow providing support, blocking criticism. The press is helping by not reporting it, and in fact, even more amazingly, Turkey is praised here, as a namely by carrying out some of the worst terrorist atrocities of the late 1990s with our assistance. Well, you know, that's an of the educated culture. It wouldn't be easy. It takes effort to do this sort of thing, and it's not hard to explain. I can explain it in two minutes. I can even give you the - Now, if we were at the which we're not, the argument would be made, &quot;Well, Turkey has to fit &quot;view of the world, &quot;in which they are a modernizing Or not an Islamic state, they are a state that has What would your answer be to that? - So therefore we should help them drive two to three million destroy thousands of villages. - No, don't go there. - Well, that's the question. In fact, I think we're We're supporting the most Like I said, I was just there. I was there talking about these things, and popular support for is overwhelming. We're supporting the military run regime, we're supporting, we're and development. In fact, that's happening But even if it were true that we were helping modernization, that in no sense justifies participation in some of or worse, I don't know praising them as a model by carrying out massive terror. And you can generalize this. You know, take, say, let's When Indonesia was following in the 1950s and early 60s, US was strongly opposed, actually tried to break Finally, a military coup took place with the assistance of The coup massacred maybe a Mostly landless peasants. It was greeted here with It was described accurately. So, New York Times, it was Time magazine, you and praise. It was praised because, what they called the Indonesian moderates, namely the ones who were turning the country Well, from then, 65 til 98, in that the Indonesian kind of like Saddam Hussein, one of the worst criminals was lavishly praised and supported as a wonderful person, the Clinton administration because he was serving US interests while carrying out huge massacres and compiling one of the worst records of atrocities in the world. What happened to that in history? Well, you know, it's history, but it's not what you teach as you should in a free country. That's the task of the intellectuals. Be careful to be sure that nobody understands what's going on. It's a major task. - You actually believe that there are two kinds of intellectuals. One, the kind that serves, and the other, those who stand outside, who basically call a spade a spade. - I mean, we all agree with that when we're talking about enemies. So when we're talking we all agree that there was a difference between the commissars and the dissidents. Now the commissars were the guys inside who were propagating state propaganda, and the dissidents are a very who were trying to call a spade a spade. And we honor the dissidents, and we condemn the commissars. - Because they were doing - And when we turn around We honor the commissars and and furthermore, this goes right through back through history. You know, go back to classical So who drank the hemlock Was it a commissar or a dissident? (laughs) When you go to, say, the Bible, you know, you read the Biblical record, there are people called prophets, prophets just means intellectuals, they were people giving moral lessons, that sort of thing. We call them intellectuals today. There were the people there were the people we But if you look at the Biblical record, at the time it was the other way around. The flatterers at the court of King Ahab were the ones who were honored, and the ones we call prophets were driven into the You know, that's the way and understandably. Power does not like to be undermined. - There's an important point here that I want to bring out, which is if you're comparing at a time when we're not doing anything about East Timor or Indonesia, or a number of other places. - It's not that we're not doing it-- - Well, no that we're - We're intensifying the atrocity. - But I guess the really is that as part of the self deception that is created by the media, we forget we're doing in one place and set it where it would be very easy to do something about it, namely, stopping the military aide. Whereas in other areas, well, if you start bombing, you know, what are the - That's another question. To which it is independent of what we should have done in Kosovo. Maybe we can guess at on its own, but what it does show it's not humanitarian. Just take a look at everything you see that. So what should we have done in Kosovo? Well, here you have to look at the record, and the record is interesting, and it's suppressed by the intellectuals. So there's a massive literature about it, and if you look through that literature you'll notice that something namely the actual record And we have a voluminous record, from the state department, from from NATO, from the UN. As far as I'm aware, there's that reviews that record, mine. And of course the book is condemned, because it reviews the record. What the record shows is unequivocal. Right up to shortly before the bombing the British were the most hawkish element of the coalition. Internally, now it's released, then it was internal, regarded the guerrillas as This is after the Racak Massacre. - This would be the Albanian guerrillas. - Yes, they said they are the What they're trying to do is to elicit a disproportionate Serbian response, which they did, which would Now, I don't personally believe that, but that's the British. We know that right up until the bombing, nothing much changed. It was an ugly place, I mean, you know, these are not nice guys. The Serbian occupiers and not on the level of what we were doing in other places, but bad enough. But nothing changed up until the bombing. When the bombing was undertaken, it was on the expectation that Not surprising, you start And it did, I mean, you it's for crimes committed given one exception, but-- - The bombing made by NATO. - After the bombing, exactly as anticipated. Atrocities mounted, and they started expelling the population. Now, those are crimes, undoubtedly, this guy's a major criminal, but the crimes happened to be provoked by the NATO bombing. Now, what you read is, well, we had to bomb to return Yeah, except that they were after the bombing. Now, there were some displaced before, but the huge expulsion Before that, the West saw it as kind of, guerrillas trying to elicit and responses. That's the description. Well, if you don't tell the truth, well, you may still decide or the wrong thing, but unless you at least look at the facts, you're not even in the real world. I mean, for example, it's a fact, which we should look at, we can ask, was there an alternative? It was a bad place, no doubt. Was there an alternative to violence? Were there diplomatic alternatives? Well, you can look back, and you see, in fact, I wrote at the time, it looks like there are I mean, Serbia had a if you actually look at the result after 78 days of bombing it's a compromise between NATO gave up its most extreme demands, Serbs gave up their most extreme demands, and there was a kind of compromise. Could that have been and the atrocities? Well, there's a good case that can be made that it was. But remember, the burden who say you have to bomb. They try to put the They can't. It's the ones who use violence that have the burden of proof. - Not everyone is Noam Chomsky, and can't produce the extraordinary opus of works on these issues. So what is your advice for people who have the same concerns, who identify with the tradition that you come out of, and who want to be active What is it they need to be doing that would be productive? - The same as the factory girls in the Lowell textile plant 150 years ago. They joined with others. To do these things especially when you're to put put food on the table. Join with others, you It's got a big multiplier effect. I mean, that's why unions have always been in the lead of development of They bring together poor enable them to learn from one another, to have their own sources of information and to act collectively. That's how everything has changed. Civil rights movement, the solidarity movement, The reason we don't live in a dungeon is because people have joined and there's nothing In fact, just the last 40 years have seen remarkable - And in that sense, in addition to ending the war in Vietnam, the protest movement of the 60s really did change our consciousness. - Totally changed the country. - And it changed the what they had to do to - Yeah, I mean, this is a This month, March 2002, happens of the public announcement that they were sending US That's a US bombing of South Vietnam. That was the initiation to destroy food crops, driving huge numbers of people Nobody was there except the US and the south Vietnamese, and that was a US war publicly announced, not a peep of protest. Now, the war went on for years but by the time it did, not just the anti-war movement, the civil rights movement it changed the popular consciousness. The country just became No American president could possibly dream of doing that today. And the same is true in many other areas. Go back to 62, there was there was a very limited extremely limited, there was no environmental movement, meaning rights of our grandchildren, there were no third-world there was no anti-apartheid movement, there was no anti-sweatshop movement, I mean, all of the things that just weren't there. How'd they get there? Was it a gift from an angel? No, they got there by struggle, common struggle by people with others, 'cause you can't do it alone, and made it a much more civilized country. There's a long way to go, and that's not the first time it happened, and it'll continue. - I gather it's your belief in the movement, that's a mistake, 'cause it's really the unsung heroes the unsung seamstresses or who actually make a difference. - They're the ones that do things. I mean, take, say, the You think of the civil rights movement, the first thing you think King was an important figure, but he would have been I'm sure, that he was The people who were doing the work, who were in the lead in were young SNCC workers, freedom riders, you know, people out there getting beaten, sometimes killed, working constantly. And they created the circumstances in which Martin Luther King could come in and be a leader. And his role was extremely important, and I'm not denigrating it, it's very important to have done that, but the people who were really important are the ones whose names are forgotten, and that's true of every movement that ever existed. - If students were to watch this tape, how would you advise them to prepare for the future if they identify with the goals that you're putting on the table? - Be honest, critical, accept For example, the principle that if something is wrong Things like that. Understand the importance of the fundamental anarchist principle, namely, prior illegitimacy unless you can justify it, which is not easy. It's their burden of proof, not yours. That's true whether between a family or whether and beyond that, try to join with others who share your interests to learn more and to act responsibly to improve the many very which can be done. - There's an important element of courage in this kind of work, is there not? And what is involved in that courage? - Oh, you know, in a country the level of courage that's involved is extremely low. I mean, if you're a poor, yeah, that takes courage, If you're a relatively well the level of courage is minuscule. Just see what other people face elsewhere. Like I say, I just came back from Turkey. I mean, the people in the southeast, living a dungeon, millions of them. They show real courage when let's say, or speak openly, let's say, Kurdish as a language. They can end up in a and that's not fun. But let's even go to Istanbul, you know, sort of more Western. I actually went there The government was putting who had published a couple on the repression of the Kurds. Well, in Istanbul, the journalists, artists, they are constantly carrying Like when I was there, they purposely co-published writings of people in co-published it, went to the prosecutor, I went with them, That's no joke. Some of them have been in jail, some will go back to jail, But they're not making they just do it in their normal behavior, not waving flags and saying, &quot;Look how courageous I am.&quot; That's just life. That takes courage. As compared with what they face every day, what we face is so pathetically small that we shouldn't even Yes, unpleasant things can happen, but not in comparison with - Coming out of science, and the level of complexity in that field that you can comprehend I'm curious as to whether this accounts for what I think I detect is a moderate or almost conservative view, on your part, of how much things can I don't know if that's but is that the case, that in some sense, by seeing so much, you understand that very little sometimes but that may be very important? - Very important, and what's more, I don't think we should So I agree with the factory I think wage slavery is an attack on fundamental human rights. I think those who work in I think we should struggle against what was then the new spirit of the age. &quot;Gain wealth, forgetting Yeah, that's all and in the long term, it should be dismantled. But the way you proceed, right now there are serious like three million Americans who don't have enough to eat, or people elsewhere in the and who are, in fact, under our boot. You know, we're grinding Those are short term things Now, there's nothing wrong Like the gains that I from the 60s til today, they're extremely Doesn't mean that there are not a lot of mountain peaks to climb, there are, but you do what's within range. Same in the sciences. You might like to solve the problems of what causes human action or something, but the problems you work on are the ones that are right at the edge of your understanding. Actually, there's a famous joke about a drunk under a lamppost, and somebody comes up and asks him, he's looking at the ground, &quot;What are you looking for?&quot; He goes, &quot;I'm looking for They say, &quot;Well, where did you drop it?&quot; He said, &quot;Oh, I dropped &quot;So, why are you looking here?&quot; &quot;Well, this is where the light is.&quot; You know, that's the I mean, maybe the problem is across the street, but you have to work where the light is, then you try to move it a little further, and maybe ultimately you'll And the same is true in human affairs. I mean, I think the same is when you have a problem with your kids, that's the way you have to deal with it. - One final question, and I understand your unwillingness to focus on heroes or to be made into a hero, but if an activist is what lesson might they draw from your life about what they can do in their life, with regard to the issues - Last night, for example, I gave a talk in Berkeley about the US and the Middle East and Israel and Palestine, Who is responsible for that talk? Not me, you know, I flew in from Boston, came over, and gave a talk. The people responsible for that are the people working on it. The people working day after day to create the organizational structures, the support systems, to go up and back to work with and maybe their names but they are the ones who I come in and it's a privilege for me to be able to join 'em for an hour, but that's easy. Get up and give a talk, it's no big deal. But working on it day that's hard, and that's important, and that's what changes the world. Not somebody coming in and giving a talk. - Noam, thank you very for this fascinating discussion of at least some aspects Thank you. - Thank you. - And thank you very much for joining us for this (bright music)