TEXT: This is NOT what an atom really looks MICHELLE THALLER: Calling what an electron is actually very misleading. In truth electrons don't move around a nucleus at all. It's very, very different and part of that Elementary particles are not tiny, tiny little They're more properly described as waves and around an atom. It actually exists as a wave. And what that means is that there are volumes will fill in. A single electron can actually be an entire orbitals as we call them, but again I caution a planet around a star. Some of these orbitals are shaped like dumbbells volume that looks like a dumbbell, or sometimes So these actually are mathematical solutions this electron is around an atom. We call these electron shells and it's not the shell. It's in the whole shell all at once. The electron actually fills in that volume area of where that electron may be. So despite our depictions of atoms with the around the outside, reality is nothing like Electrons form these volumes and some of those Some of these dumbbells actually have electrons What an atom really is, is far more complicated mysterious and I think really wonderful. One of the best things to study in quantum TEXT: The Big Bang wasn't an explosion. Visualize it like this instead. Now when you hear the term Big Bang that implies work from our experience. Things actually fly out from a common center. And one of the things is that scientists really at all. That sort of sets you up in the wrong direction there are galaxies all flying apart away from flying out into empty space. And the universe we observe is absolutely For example, the whole volume of the universe We can see to a distance of nearly 13 billion All of that volume is filled with galaxies. There is no empty center to the universe. And the other thing that we don't observe could either is being on the edge of that. Being on a galaxy right on the edge of expansion because you're looking inside and nothing Space never looks like that. All around us we see galaxies. The universe is filled with them. So, what's really going on here? And this really gets at the crux of what the The Big Bang wasn't an explosion of matter. It was an expansion of space itself. So that simply means that any amount of space is getting farther away from everything else. I know that's very hard to visualize. Some people talk about blowing up a balloon wrong direction because they say aha, a balloon away from it. What they haven't told you is you need to Pretend that there's no such thing as inside Just the two dimensional surface of the rubber. As you blow into it that expands in every If you were to draw little points on the surface getting farther away from every other little But if you were a two dimensional creature balloon, you could only shine a light. You couldn't possibly even know about what's If you were completely two dimensional you every other point but there would be no empty So the question is in our three dimension expand into if this is the case? And the answer honestly is no. Space itself can simply get larger. We don't know the extent of the entire universe. If you want to think of the universe instead sheet. You can just keep stretching that rubber sheet. Stretching it apart, everything's getting there's no empty center. There's still rubber everywhere you go and Now, we are pretty sure there's no edge to Is the universe infinite? We honestly don't know. Maybe the universe does have some larger shape really remember is that there is no empty The Big Bang happened at every point in space. All of space began to expand at once. And so that means that we look out into the of the galaxies moving away from us. And if you point at any galaxy you want in see everything expanding away from you because There is no empty center to the universe. TEXT: The speed of light is more than a record-breaking You may have heard that nothing with mass The only things that travel at the speed of speed of light. Nothing with any mass at all can travel at and closer to the speed of light its mass And if it were actually traveling at the speed So think about that. Even if you had a tiny little particle that an electron. Just a tiny, tiny little piece of mass. If for some reason that tiny thing accelerated mass and that's a bit of a problem. So, let's talk about this. One of the things that you really have to special. It's not just simply a speed of something As you go faster and faster and closer to slow down and space begins to contract. As you go close to the speed of light the until it basically just becomes a single point And time as you go closer to the speed of time is a single point at the speed of light. Light does not experience space or time. It's not just a speed going through something. All of the universe shifts around this constant, Time and space itself stop when you go that So, the reason you can't accelerate to the an infinite mass gets a little complicated of energy. You may remember Einstein's famous equation Energy equals mass times the speed of light Energy and mass are equivalent. Mass is basically a measurement of how much When you're moving you have the energy of That's called kinetic energy. Energy of motion. So, E = mc2 now your mass has not just the your motion. And that's why mass seems to increase as you of light. It's not that you're actually getting any The increase in mass is something that's only by. If you're on a spaceship going very fast at getting heavier. You are on your spaceship, you can jump up You can do whatever you want. You don't notice any change at all. But if people try to measure your mass as rest mass, your mass when you were still, you have through space. And that's called a relativistic mass. It's a complex idea to think that mass itself depending on how fast you're going. If you were to slow down on your spaceship You would go back to being the same mass you So, as you can see it's a complicated answer you're going very close to the speed of light into account that energy because of the equation