Welcome to the inside of the house, please hello Is it 302? I am the most expensive forsythia in your family. I will be right back. Mrs. My daughter's only child left on earth, my grandson Where the hell are you Three boys to pick you up Grandma, you're back home Haven't you heard from your sister yet? Grandma, we contacted the major media to publish a missing person notice. Only baby her mother holding her props, still need some time You rest assured Even if it's a needle in a haystack, we'll find out where it is. Who are you? Who are you? Husband My sister, you break the lock into my house You are not bashful to say that you want to find a key for me. I don't need to find the lock Ah, right 500 you pay for the opening fee? Why don't I give you 500 dollars and you go to the hospital to see your brain You're just a little more talkative. It's not good to grow up. I can take whatever I like. Don't talk about that stuff. Even this house is ours What are you daydreaming about Ah. You have to lose money. If you dare to scold me, how can you talk to your sister? Mom, I bought a lot of food you like. Come today and tell you a good news. You are going to be an aunt. Your brother's daughter-in-law destroyed our grandson. If you want a house first, you can have grandchildren. It's settled Transfer the house to your brother today as a wedding room. I went from work to now. Every month, he saves money and calls you 5000, right I'm him, not his mother You want to buy the house again What do you envy the female star and want our family to break the incense? You are so eccentric, he is your child, I am not You and I are not the same I am the blood of the Wangs. What do you mean Let's be honest When we adopted you, we wanted you to help me when you grew up, my son. You transfer the house to your brother Even if you repay our kindness Good. Go find Huang Ben Today I will put the words here You can take it from my house The dog will die. Get out of here This is what you forced me to do Let's take a video now. Look at it. This is my adopted daughter I worked so hard to bring her up She's rich now. I don't recognize her. Breaking off relations Your family will never suck my blood again. Get out. How dare you beat my mother What can I do about this Hmph. I posted this video online. This white-eyed wolf must be on fire. Can you be too unfilial There's only one thing that can be taken from my house. look exactly like my daughter This is my granddaughter Liu Tongzhu preparing a car for departure. Notify the second brother and the third brother to take his sister home. The board is suspended. I'll pick up the feed. Characteristics of green trees White-eyed wolf, you are on fire Face to work. You all have the face to go out What do I have to hide I tell you, ah If you don't transfer this house to your brother... I'm not done with you in this life Your days are over It's the end of his days Hold them down, don't move. Finally found you Let go of us who They are the three presidents of Jiang's group Jiang Shi, the richest man in Zhang Shi Group, is there a mistake? How can we offend the richest man? Impossible Could it be that my sister offended Master Qingtian, he's cut us off. Yeah. It has nothing to do with us. We didn't deserve to fight him. Because he is a relative of Jiang's family If you hadn't posted the video online My brother couldn't find himself so quickly. We also want to thank you If he wants to thank us, he can buy my son a house. I bought two square meters and brought a cover. This is too stingy I'll go, alas sister Let's go home Good granddaughter Let me introduce you to the three of them. My familiar eldest brother, Beginning of Winter Second Brother Zhou Tong Third brother Liu Haoqun is a big brother from all walks of life. See you on TV every day. By the way, why didn't they send the letter? All three of them were adopted by their grandmothers. If you like, choose one of them to be your wife. Three CEO brothers who are not related by blood. God, 15. I earn not thin ah You have just been found back to give you some pocket money. has been transferred to you what2000000 Well, this is too mineless. 17 Let's play a game. On my phone screen, you remind Hmph. No decimal point, 8225000km This card is yours You're not a liquidity 0.1 billion. The centurion black gold card that can make the ship turn around You are too difficult for me I have no place to spend this money Who says there's no place to spend Grandma Lidong will hold a grand banquet for you. Declare to everyone that you are the daughter of the Jiang family. Let Liu Tezhu take you to buy some jewelry you like. which one to buy Hey. Let me take a look at this This necklace is so beautiful. I, I came first. Can you afford it? You 've got less than $500 all over your body. This poor gas, it's all coming out. Hey hey, how much do I buy 180000, 100000 This official service is not a national treasure Oh, don't I like it very much You buy it, it's really hard With this necklace At tonight's party, Jiang's daughter will surely give me a high look. As long as she can become a best friend Maybe I can get a president's brother to buy jewelry for his husband, how about that? Shoot it for me Oh, what are you shooting Hey. I have, it's not that big names can't afford it. But the electronic big name is more cost-effective 210000's Van Cleef &amp; Arpels won 2 million Harry Winston Platinum Diamond Bracelet Take Hey hey hey hey hey hey This who also distinguish Einstein and I must make a tremble. The party is about to begin. Li always told me to take you for a walk What? Did you buy something Uh, ha, ha, ha, isn't it just as glorious without those things? very beautiful All right. The party is about to begin. Let's go inside Chief Li The United States has a cooperative direction. Suggestions, then I go first Well, good Such a high-end banquet is for me. Where can I get food? The menu of the poor devil in the jewelry store is all in English, can't you understand it? Let me help you It's you during the day today. It's all a misunderstanding. Since it is fate to meet again I recommend you order this You go and tell the waiter to medium rare Thanks. Hello I want one medium rare Miss, this is a piano piece you ordered. Ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha You intentionally I was really laughed by you I have no enmity with you, you deliberately play me Today is a banquet for Jiang's daughter. It is disrespectful to Jiang's daughter to stand here as an unknown poor wretch like you. I'm just a wake-up call for Jiang's daughter. Hmph. The words are separated by Jiang's daughter. Do people know you? As long as I stand here, I have a chance to put Unlike someone like you, he has no chance in his life. What makes you think I'm poor? Still in this mouth I have seen all the videos of Ppicture on your trembles. A thick 180000 full It was childish of you to turn around and give yourself a 2 million jewel to wear on Who said to buy leather Open your dog's eyes and see how many zeros my Yu 'e Bao has. Not just 10 million deposits. Who here has not Isn't it, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha? You really sold it This is not my deposit This is also my pocket money for a month Oh yeah, and this The black old man has a long black gold card with the name of beginning of winter engraved on it. When did you remarry with beginning of winter You use your brain to think Today's banquet is for Jiang's daughter. I also have the card of beginning of winter Who do you think I am Oh. I see, you are Li Zong's nanny. How dare you steal the master's card Oh, my God. The pig hand in your brain museum is designated as fake. Because it's really around your neck Chen Wei, you dare to scold me pig brain You're really rude Hmph. How dare you hit me? I'm bored. What's going on? Mr. Li, your room does not have your card. I want to teach him a lesson for you I didn't know he was hitting people. He's the daughter of the Jiang family. You can mess with him. You are Jiang's daughter Remember what April 8, 24, means today This is the day your family went bankrupt Direct Ah. Isn't this my Ppicture I know you're not willing to buy these things. In the future, these spare money will be spent if you want. I like that you're starting to blush I fell in love with you silly listen to me Today is my first day at work I want to lay low In all aspects of food, clothing, housing and travel, I Jiang 17 can't have anything to do with money. OK, OK Then you can drive an Audi Take this Hermes as a male bag I bought a 200-square small house near your company for your convenience. Didn't you agree to move poor? This is to do Isn't that poor enough? It's not a Rolls-Royce Well, it means Mandarin. Uh-huh. I think no matter how poor I am, I can only be so poor. Don't say that when you're in a play. Be careful, who wants to beat my president? That's enough. You three just stay here. I went to work Sit down. I don't want people to see my relationship with the boss of the hundred sparrow forest. I'll go by myself. I'll be late. I'm going to be late I'm going to be late. This is also the company. That's right. My name is Yingying There is no need to worry, let's go The two of you are late for work on the first day, and the attendance award is deducted. Your company stipulates that you go to work at ten o'clock. It's only two minutes before ten o'clock. I'm the supervisor. I made it a rule to have an early meeting half an hour earlier. Ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, what kind of person am I? Work has been very tired I have to hear your toad call Xiao 17 half an hour in advance. What kind of attitude do you have to talk to my supervisor like this? Phase is born from the heart You give me 3000 yuan a month I'll give you a 3000-dollar look. Why, Director? If it's nothing This will be our family Yingying My family will not participate in 17 Play with me to make up for the workplace, right Then I'll fight for poison for you. Hmph. I didn't expect to meet my first day at work. Quick question, quick answer Who is your favorite male star? Out together. Wang Yibo Who is your favorite female star? Jin Zhiwei I'm too in tune The days after he rebelled again Our department is going to choose an employee to go to a new city. This is the list Hmph. Who, who Who is this? Who is this Don't even think about it This old man must want to be transferred, I. It's not you It's me What do you mean to leave my Shangguan Isn't that a cliff break-up for me? I'll guard my burden and argue with this old Zhao. You give me stop, why do you tune Go Yingying, the report is after comprehensive consideration With whose comprehensive consideration With your pig brain Anyone can talk rubbish. But less when the test is real skill You have to protect your job, don't you? This time Xu always wants to see our sparrow brainwave The planning scheme of my series of products If you can come up with a good plan to deal with Xu To be qualified to say stay here Uh-huh. Your boy better keep his word Xu is a famous deal. You're going to get fired Huh, uh-huh After staying up the middle of the night, I finally finished my report. I'm to blame for bringing trouble on you Otherwise, you wouldn't have to work all night. But it's a good thing you were prepared Let's wash our faces later and put on the cream. Good match, don't say two words If you get transferred Then I'll be dull at work. All right. Let's go back and have a rest. Report well tomorrow, Ying Ying celebrate that you don't have to go. Yo. The cake is ready. Looks like she's giving Yingying a farewell. Taobao informed us that the plan has been passed. You can't transfer him I am in charge Have you ever heard of the death of a senior official Director Guo is a great official. Chief Li, what you said in front of you I am a calf horse Horses, in that case. Then you're fired The company can't tolerate people like you who make things difficult for colleagues to take personal revenge. You are wrong and I am wrong. Give me another chance I feed Wait for your resignation cake. I forgot to take it green total I was wrong We can continue to work together, ha ha Good job. Thank you, Mr. Li. What do you mean? I'm sure I'll be late for my internship. You go with him Good total chestnut Crowded where you are Li Zong You find me this is his favorite star When he is bored, you can accompany him to chase stars. It turns out that you are the one who has the most tacit understanding with me. Let me show you my new purple mobile phone case. Does this look good So you like purple Then I will also send you a purple purple What kind of paper, expensive play can't enter How much is this? not expensive 8 million, 800 points You can't spend money like this. You'll spend it sooner or later. Ha, ha, ha, what are you laughing Looks like you don't know anything about our family's money Let me teach you a lesson Good. I'll show you rice The total assets of our family have exceeded 100 billion yuan. If a grain of rice represents 1 million This 100 grain of rice is a grain of rice So hundreds of billions is to buy a Lamborghini Just eight grains Look at this pile of rice. There are six big brothers. He just hasn't had much contact with money. Do you want to give him to 17 companies? He has an idea of money at home Hey, don't, don't, don't, don't think you can't do it. Then I'll give you a simple job. This is our company Baiqueling straightThe new anchor candidate for the broadcast room. You choose one, an anchor has so many people signed up That, of course. If you can become the anchor of the Baiqueling studio with an annual salary of one million, can the competition not be fierce? Fate I choose him He's my old classmate, okay that's him Tomorrow we're going to Switzerland for a signing ceremony You go out first as an agent. No problem Tomorrow beautiful see I will be very happy Mr. Zhang, today's signing ceremony is ready. You called me today is to work Sit down. Hi, little sister. Long time no see. 17 Why are you here? I am the gazelle It's a part-time worker, uh-huh. Try again I'll send you something today. You pulled me black After today's signing ceremony, I'm going to be on the rise. I am an anchor who earns tens of millions of dollars a year. You are a temporary worker is not a class of people Of course, I won't let a bad person like you Stay in my WeChat address book Go back, oh You know, that's what you think Do I have to make my words so clear? Hey, what did you just send me Where's your contract? Why didn't you say so earlier? I'm pulling you off my blacklist right now Have you ever heard a word There are some poor people who are not 3000 their monthly salary once they miss something. And I loaded you with a temp. I'm the future anchor of the gazelle. I let you eat How are you? You can pretend Be careful to hit the face I'm doing this today They are all confident. Do you know who appointed me to be the anchor? Whoo who? Tang disciple, um Do you know what it means that Shirley always chooses me out of 1000 people? Meaning he made a promise from 1000 people. Means I'm the anchor this year Next year is the president's wife Now is the rule of law society You don't think you are brain-dead can do whatever you want oh The launch of the first resurrection series of Baiqueling muscles began. Please welcome the new signing anchor to introduce the new I'll fire you as soon as I get off the stage. You still don't go on stage You go home and get on the kang Welcome to the scene of the new product launch of the sparrow antelope. The original anchor lost the opportunity to cooperate for some reason. Now let me introduce our new products to you What makes him say that? You should pull this temporary worker down quickly. What are you talking about? He's the acting president of our gazelle. Don't you go I'm president Lidong's handpicked anchor. You have no right to fire me. Yi Zong You 've come, but I was chosen by you from 1000 people. I didn't choose you, it was Jiang's daughter. He and you are old people who wanted to give you a chance to be the daughter of the Fujiang family. See? I'm covered by a noble man. Yi always don't know if I can have the honor to meet a country daughter Alas This total Hi. Think about Tianjin. Originally, I chose you for the sake of my classmates. I didn't expect you to be defiant and your heart is higher than the sky. Give you a chance, you're useless. beautiful For the sake of our classmates Give me another chance, OK? I still have our graduation photos here, don't I Uh-huh Then you are quick to show me who I am. I am nostalgic. What if I see the groom Good good, pull black I didn't pass your friend application. Because people like you are lying in my address book and don't approve. How about 17? 17 things I have solved Brother, aren't you overseas? How do you compare The two of us also thought that we would not like senior sister Don't talk, then I can chase No, standing lamp Time would you like to be my girlfriend I am willing 7. you're quitting. I don't like practicing piano in the office. Then don't talk to him too much when I leave. Let's do this. If you can answer my three questions, I'm irrational, okay? What is the unit of calculation larger than billions? Should be children You do know that. It's incredible. Incredible is also a unit, I underestimate you You can't answer the next question. What day of the week is KFC the cheapest? You have too many questions Ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, I didn't buy it. I think you just don't like it. I don't like girlfriends. That's not what I meant. I just don't like people calling me Aunt Liu, which is easy to handle. We don't love underground, that's safe. Change the department, hi Hello. I'm new here. President Zhang 17 is here. Don't look at me Oh. Lee just looked at me Really, I told you to take him down sooner or later. Ha ha ha ha, what are you laughing Newcomer, how dare you not listen to us Listen to your powder whisper I don't want to give up in front of my best friend. But I can't cut my ear off How dare you talk to my supervisor like this? Talk and turn you off now. When will it be your turn to open my company? I'm joking with him, Zhang machine come over to the good president What is it? I 've never seen Li always show that kind of look to any woman. That is clearly like it How is it possible to pick a woman of this grade 17? What are you talking about Jiang 17, a vulgar and tasteless person, is at best a novelty. But what kind of ignorance does Li always like You're more than Zombie Seven and you like it too I'm sure I can win before him. Ouch me, are you learning from me Who will learn from you? I was like this I thought I was disgusting enough to wear to work. I didn't think there was anyone more disgusting than me. Damn, never been so dirt Oh, you're called lying down and tasting gall to win Li Zong What luxury, what high and low, everything Is that right, for the sake of profit I can't eat anything It's so cute to take a nap. Thank you. I learned it and didn't understand it Security which have traffic That's putting me down. That's me. He's not a bum He is the station director Turned out to be an electronic director Ming Hi. I'll tell you where the demigods came from in the CEO's office. You are serious about tomorrow's new plan for the gazelle. If you don't show up Let's think about your own number first. It's all your fault. What bad idea did you give me? I lost such a big face Lili, you must take the initiative Cannot optical pyrolitic We're gonna let him make a mistake Work done, off duty Hmph, Jiang Shiqi I took your PPT for my own use. See what you show the customer Zhang Shixin. Please cast PPT All right. Where is my PPT? Jiang 17 dropped the chain at the critical time. Fortunately, I was prepared for it. Let me pick it up Well, okay, you do it What's going on? My computer seems to have no electricity. I'll come, I'll come, I'll come, I'll come Let me tell you about the charger. I don't waste time yo, you scared the shit out of me baby This time, we will deal with it according to the plan of Jianghu gas. After all, this is not fair, that is, our sister Lili is just PPT damaged Did you steal my PPT This is the preface of the mad thief who touched me Just when I'm confused But Mr. Li, why do you always protect him You're nowhere better than me for him. She's my girlfriend I protect her Then you can treat me as if I have no eyes. Now I'm out of love for you, so let me go. Then you can change little love into big love I sent you to plant trees in the Tengger Desert. Good work, you don't don't don't It's all him. He gave me a bad idea. Why don't you go and make him a companion Here you come There are still two portions of your roasted cold noodles, please hurry up. Miss, you asked for extra-grade olive oil. There are more pigs in the wild black pork than in the bottom. Go to the back. Miss, you're a little confused You and Li are two people worth hundreds of billions of dollars. How can you sell cold noodles here? Rich people live a boring life. We call this experience life But you only sell it for five dollars each. You know what the biggest reward is for a chef The customer is happy to eat Uh-huh. It smells good Ha-ha-ha But the green total ah There is a small boss who has begged you to meet someone for lunch for three months. Have you forgotten? Then you go quickly Leave it to me, then I'll go first. Bye-bye There are two cold noodles, wait a minute. How to sell baked cold noodles boring, don't sell yo Jiang 17, it turns out that you are now reduced to selling cold noodles. You kicked me when I had no money Now I'm driving a luxury car What is this called This is called tacit understanding, young poor Yes, sister, love is not good You two have lost your memory, sister. Didn't you join your love long before we broke up? Why, you two came here to wash white today No matter what I am now a big boss I'll have lunch with the force of the Baiqueling Group at the moment. You said Leehom He went with his classmates The family is the top five in the Forbes Asia list. Can you come to this place to bake cold noodles He really is inside. But this is what he did Ha ha ha ha ha ha, I'm too lazy to listen to you I'll go to lunch with Li Bye-bye Hey! Honey, I'm going to dinner today, too. You see, I need my old colleague for 4 years for our cooperation this time. Wonderful Zhang Shixian is chasing this In front of the total also dare to make a case, you give me roll madam Honey, am I leaving now? How dare you do nothing to my lady Our collaboration is composed. Hey, don't Play something different this time. Ha ha ha ha ha So, let's give them another chance. Just now, I didn't mind taking selfies with Mr. Li. Can the old lady ask you to dance? Good ah ah I don't seem to fit that shoe today. Then I can invite you, I You are convenient Ah, good good good I'm sorry Zhijie, I think you are Mr. Li's wife now. It's actually a small company. Mr. Li's word is gone. You see, we have so many people's feelings. Don't worry The contract is definitely yours But what, that woman took you away from me I still owe it to you. Better do me a glass of water shameless, break up with him immediately He thunder half, looking forward to your performance Days Falling in the Sky Ding Ge If you come to dance with me, will my sister do anything? Well, your Rolex is actually fake. He'll send you a fake This chp man thought his love for me was cheap enough. I didn't expect this person to be so angry. He sent me this ch goods. In fact, you are particularly special charm But I don't like to rob people Hey, Lisa I can break up with him right away. If you can show me your sincerity to send me, I will behave well. Hey You this mobile phone why ah you I think I'm dirty Oh, my God, it's hard work. My husband is almost there. Let's go see them and get ready for a while. After all, this is a big play Hey. You were kicked to break up I have already made a PDF of what you asked me to congratulate. Now send friends to make you famous. I have already prepared the evidence form for illegal operation. Send it to the police now You wait to be caught making oranges Fortunately, I left it for you. Don't forget, you are a legal officer. Uh-huh. How do you routine ah I gave a kiss Ha, ha, ha, talent It's really a fight. How about 17 was good. Great. Contract, that Nali total Where's my gift? This Pro What do you mean? Said you two are nervous, ha ha ha ha Who called the police? The police seem to be coming. Ha ha ha ha miss Bo Jie, why are you dressed like this? Undercover inspection of the company, of course. Security is the best body Wait. Newspaper Isn't this a teacher period? My old primary school classmate has been working as a security guard since I haven't seen you for more than ten years. Why, how well do you mix Don't insert a chicken feather, fly to the sky phoenix Ah. This, you caught up This weekend's reunion, everyone is going to my 20 million mansion. Isn't this my home? How silly Do you dare to come this weekend? Hocus, damn it This I definitely get ah Well, wow Linlin Your home is so big so rich This is your home, are you sure Nonsense, not my home. Can I hold a reunion to entertain guests? You can't live in a house like this all your life as a security guard, can you? Don't be ungrateful Okay. It's my honor to visit the mansion. Let's go. Take you to see the world Why does he have my house key? Sit down, everybody. Just like your own home. Lingling, your home is so luxurious That's this neighborhood, a flat will 200000 A poor wretch like Ginger 17 I can't afford to eat or drink for 300 years. Haha, what are you laughing Envy Lan Ha, ha, ha, ha, ah, by the way, 17 where do you live now to buy a house how good it is to buy Also in this neighborhood, hum Laugh to death How can you be a security guard and afford a house here? I think you rented a basement here. Lingling, show us around your house Good to go. Wow, this toilet is bigger than my bedroom You snowflakes take it away You can't take anything so good. Uh-huh. You're so rich You don't even want to take something from you, oh This is not your thing at all So you dare to be the Lord I'll have to educate you. You have to work on your own if you want something. It's too fall in price to reach for it. I think you should stop being a security guard. Come to my house and babysit for me I'll give you 200 bucks a day Okay, cloud,Go to bed now Master Silver, it's time for dinner. Hurry up and greet everyone to come over for dinner. Kang In-hee, you're crazy What's wrong with the food here? Lord silver, you won't loathe to give up How is it possible for everyone to eat casually Help yourself to the caviar steak and Tricholoma matsutake Lingling You're so generous Why is there a cabinet with a password? What good things do you have? Can we take a look? I forgot the password. Why don't you guys do it next time? Next time again? Why don't I try Lingling What's going on here? How can you open your cabinet? Hi. I remember this password I set the initial password I just tried and opened it. Oh, oh In this one, there are some good wine from my tea. Everyone can drink if they want. Agave 1925 2017 vintage champagne at Huxu Street Winery That's all good stuff. Lord silver, you are too generous You still have some knowledge, ginger nanny pour bar Come on, come on, come on, come on Thank you, Lingling, for buying us such a good drink. What, let's not think that if we flatter me, we'll be able to follow suit What grade And my wine, you don't need to wait on Can you get me a roller there? Lingling, what are you doing here I'm sorry This is my master I really didn't expect him to come in and stew while you were out. You are making everyone look down on you, how is it possible How can Jiang Shixin afford to buy a house here? He's a guard at the door. You miss, we're late How can you not repent Apologize to Miss 17. No need to apologize. Pay the money Isn't 200 just 200 babysitting fee? Here you go, ha ha ha Do you have any misunderstanding I'm talking about you eating mine and drinking mine. A total of 2 million Dear. Go shopping with me today The company has something urgent to find your best friend today. Gee, she's got to work Then you can let him leave It makes sense to be your full-time friend. Then you go 17, full-time friends, this new job is mainly to do The main thing is to play buy buy buy Daily wage settlement, 30,005 a day Oh, my God Who can tell you from the God of Wealth? Then accompany me to buy clothes today Business is not good when I receive it and go to the store. There are no customers. Mr. Li and Miss Jiang are our VVIP It is difficult to specialize in a shop. We have transferred the latest models from stores all over the world. Your friend please start to like which one Then you can't choose with so many. Then we're all right. Say what mother-in-law bye-bye 17 Your husband is so kind to you Ha, ha, ha, you are the wife of beginning of winter brother River 17 How do you know me I am the beginning of winter brother's childhood sweetheart I have seen your picture in the background of his circle of friends I just came back home with no place to live With my relationship with my brother in beginning of winter He lives for two days, no problem. No problem Anyway, our bedroom is more Sleep anywhere you want. Hmph. 17, do you smell a big smell of tea I 'd like to see what he can do. Ginger 17 Just giving away scraps and not being jealous of him. High prices don't envy her, have everything. As long as you help me break up Jiang 17 and brother beginning of winter, how much will Jiang 17 give you? How about I double the 3 million He's my best friend Li Jiaqi Ha ha ha ha ha Sure enough, in the face of great interests, friendship is not worth mentioning. You say it What do you want me to do I don't care what you use As long as you help me plant Ginger 17 Red apricot wall, let the wind brother swallow I'll give you a 5 million, OK can whoa whoa whoa whoa But what are you doing to make it so delicate? Shh. Keep your voice down. Today I'm going to Chongqing two men But I haven't chosen yet After all, they both make me sweat Can't stop The evidence of Jiang 17 derailment is 5 million here Jiang Shijie let you take my brother in beginning of winter Love and friendship you don't want to get the same This is killing people. I'm back, brother Li Dong How did you come How can I get evidence of your being green without me here? What I really don't deserve for you, you are so kind to Jiang 17 He planted the prairie on your head What are you talking nonsense about? I knew you wouldn't admit it I have proof that your best friend has been bought by me for a long time. This is the recording of your male model, really? Ha ha ha Do I choose Yang Guofu or Zhang Liang tonight? Ha ha ha ha ha ha ha, that's it It's not enough This woman is outrageous One person also ordered two Sure enough, women become bad when they have money. A person who suddenly gets rich like her can't resist the temptation. This is Zhang Liang This is Yang Guofu Not only in the middle of the night can order You can order it 24 hours a day, ha ha ha ha You betrayed me, betrayed what ah I'm not your guy It's a kiss. Find out 5 million he's up and let me deal with you. What do you say you should do This 5 million don't earn white don't earn Is Baby Doll 3 on the first floor coming out today It's all gone Hey, baby Have you just finished the following Quick ha ha ha ha, want to sow discord between me and 17 You want to fart to eat, you want to fart to eat My best friend married well. I don't have time to burn incense. He's got it all. My chicken dog steals money I will never oppose him in my life. Sure enough, the poor are all poor, and this is the level of a nest of Jiang 17's best friends. Who can you scold me If you dare to scold my best friend 17, you wait I would have seen you go out alone. I'm playing aha, wow You are a good friend of 17. I got you in touch with the private plane. I'll send you and your best friend to Iceland and Aurora now. Ha ha ha You two must give me a lifetime of hard happiness Hey. We quarrel, who do you help I when my own Ha ha ha, and I