In the previous part... A classic family saga in the struggle for inheritance. Ivan III said they shouldn't have legitimate heirs before he himself had any, in order to avoid another episode of Game of Thrones. His wife preferred to go to Moscow to give birth every time she got pregnant, just in case. And so, the heir of the Prince of Ryazan was actually born in Moscow. Vasily III, naturally, immediately refused to acknowledge the existence of any obligations to the Crimea, because if there was no document, then there was no case. We did not exactly conquer them, but we rather bribed them. The criteria for the ideal of female beauty was small foot size. And a child born in the second anti-Christian union would be cruel and ruthless by nature and bring incredible torment to the state. Nowadays it is not just a beautiful ancient fortress with churches, but its territory also serves as the main political cemetery. Somewhat we are overly too critical of our history. HISTORY FACULTY Good day dear friends and lovers of Russian history. Today, we shall talk about the time and about a man without whom it is absolutely impossible to imagine our history. We shall talk about the era of Ivan the Terrible, the first Russian Tsar, who did not find a place on the monument to the Millennium of Russia. Then, the creators of the monument decided that it was impossible to erect a monument in Novgorod to the one who had subjected the city to ruin, and the local population to mass executions, as the majority used to and still continues to believe. Antipathy to the personality of Ivan the Terrible, the perception of his entire period of rule exclusively through terror, oprichnina (life-guards), the devastation of the Russian land and, again, the execution of the opposition, all this has survived to the present time. Sometimes historians do try to find an explanation for this. Karamzin himself was the first to try to present a balanced view. He said, &quot;history is more vindictive than the people,&quot; and according to Karamzin, there was more positive in Ivan the Terrible than negative. The positive has been preserved in the collective national memory of that era. Here's what he wrote to the letter: &quot;Ivan's good fame has outlived his bad fame in the people's memory: the lamentations have fallen silent, the victims have decayed and the old lore traditions have been eclipsed by the newest ones. But the name of Ivan IV shone on the Sudebnik (Judicial Code) and reminded of the acquisition of three Mongol kingdoms. While the evidence of terrible deeds lay in book repositories, the people for centuries saw Kazan, Astrakhan and Siberia as living monuments of the Conqueror Tsar; they revered in him the culprit of our state power and our civic establishment.&quot; Well, behind these high-flown words, on the one hand, there was an attempt to list the righteous deeds of Ivan the Terrible, but on the other hand, to show that there was no justification and there was no atonement for the crimes he had committed. From a formal point of view, Ivan the Terrible indeed ruled the longest in all our history - 50 years on the throne. And Ivan's Time and personality had a tremendous impact on the entire course of Russian history. This had a tremendous impact on how and why the huge Russian state was formed. THE ACCESSION OF IVAN IV We usually look for all the problems in one's childhood, and Ivan's childhood was not easy. He was a very late child; the first son of his father, who was already over fifty at that time. We all remember this saying that &quot;late children are very smart.&quot; Ivan would become a wonderful publicist of his time and a polemicist - his style and his passion are really felt in his correspondence with Andrei Kurbsky. He would be a musician and write music, he would speak several languages, which was not often the case in those days, he would play chess, read very, very much - all in all, an intellectual. But we shall talk as little as possible about Ivan the Terrible as a person, because for us is important the actual process of state growth. According to the will of his father, who had injured his leg with a wooden splinter as a result of a carriage accident and died, Ivan was placed in the care of several boyars, a kind of regency council. However, the young widow of his deceased father, Elena Glinskaya, turned out to be a girl with character. She quickly got her bearings, got rid of boyar guardianship and her role as a housewife, firmly took power into her own hands and de facto acquired the status of a Sovereign, co-ruler of her young son. However, it did not last long - several years passed and Glinskaya was poisoned. Little Ivan was eight at the time and, of course, he did not remember his father at all, but he well remembered boots. As he later recalled, &quot;I perfectly remember these dirty boots covered with Moscow frozen slime.&quot; These were the boots worn by those boorish boyars who felt like masters in Moscow and in his, Ivan's, state, and who, without taking off their outerwear and dirty boots, plopped down on his bed and did not notice this boy at all, as if he was an empty space and not there at all. However, Ivan would carefully remember all his grievances. At what point did Ivan the Terrible begin to rule directly himself? Since the adoption of the royal title and marriage. At that time, marriage was a sign of absolute adulthood and complete independence of any man. Vasily Klyuchevsky wrote, I quote: &quot;In 1546, when he was 16 years old, among childish games, according to the chronicle, that the boyars burst into tears out of tender emotion: look, the Tsar is so young, but has already thought so much&quot;. Ivan the Terrible, not yet then Terrible, but young Ivan Vasilyevich, was crowned Tsar in the Assumption Cathedral in accordance with full rite, almost like a Byzantine Emperor, thereby creating continuity from the Emperors of the Eastern Roman Empire, and thus became the first Russian Tsar. From his correspondence with Kurbsky, we know that Ivan considered himself the successor of the Roman Emperor, Constantine I the Great, the founder of Constantinople. Therefore, being the successor of the Emperor and the vicar of God's authority on Earth, he believed that if someone prevented the Tsar from fulfilling his duties before God, to whom he was accountable and bore full responsibility for the country entrusted to him, those had to be removed from the way. Yes, it was unpleasant, but it justified certain cruel measures. Returning to the young Ivan Vasilyevich, after the coronation, a bride viewing and wedding took place. Ivan's chosen one was the daughter of boyar, Roman Zakharyin, from whom the Romanov dynasty would then directly descend. According to the perceptions of that time, marriage meant full adulthood, and Ivan was seventeen years old. Thus, the boyar rule, so much hated by the people, ended and the reign of the young Tsar commenced. Let's talk about some myths related to the formation of our country. Here, for example, is the story of the so-called 'kholopstvo (servitude) of the Moscow nobility' - supposedly everyone in our country was slaves, starting from the first boyars to the last peasant, and the slave essence and slave psychology took root in the minds of the whole Russian people. &quot;And whose slave are you?&quot; - Ivan Vasilyevich asks Dr. Shpak in the Soviet film 'Ivan Vasilyevich Changes His Profession'. Since the time of Ancient Russia, kholops have been servants fully owned by their masters. They had to do what they were told, whether it was house cleaning or armed security protection, in which case they were called combat slaves, and they possessed complete legal deprivation. The life and property of the serf were entirely at the mercy of the master. The murder of a serf was condemned by the Church as a sin before God, but in the time of Ivan the Terrible it was not legally considered a crime. Since the end of the reign of Ivan III, representatives of the nobility referred to themselves as kholops in their address to the Tsar. Only Peter I would cancel such address and instead introduce &quot;loyal slave&quot;, but then Catherine II would go even further and remove the word 'slave' from circulation and the address to a royal person would sound like &quot;Your faithful servant so-and-so&quot;. No one except the highest nobility called themselves &quot;kholops of the Tsar&quot;; the peasants wrote in their petitions &quot;your orphans&quot;, and the clergy &quot;your pilgrims&quot;. The boyars and princes began to call themselves kholops only after Ivan III publicly and defiantly refused to submit to the Horde, i.e. right before the Great Stand on the Ugra River. It was from this moment that they began to call themselves kholops, although such self-determination of the nobility and even the rulers of territories was used not only in Russia. A kholop in Russian translation, or a serf, or a kul in Turkic languages, was used to name a dependent ruler, i.e. a vassal, in European terms. They were not slaves per se in the modern sense of the word. That is, since the country gained full sovereignty and independence, by calling themselves &quot;serfs of the Tsar&quot;, the boyars and princes thus had not just engaged in self-depreciation, but, on the contrary, raised themselves in status. You see, earlier, when Russia used to be dependent on the Horde, the Khan of the Golden Horde was the actual Tsar, and the Grand Duke of Moscow himself was a serf in relation to him, but now it had become so that the nobility became &quot;serfs of the Tsars&quot; because their superior, Ivan III, himself became an independent Sovereign. All in all, no matter how ironic it might look, given the modern meaning of the word, there was nothing offensive about it. What reforms did Ivan the Terrible carry out? Let's list them very concisely to the extent they contributed to the expansion and strengthening of our state. To start with, the first Russian Zemsky Sobor (People's Assembly) was convened under Ivan the Terrible, a tradition that would subsequently number several centuries. It was an all-class body, where all social strata elected their representatives, and the said Zemsky Sobor consulted, discussed and resolved state issues together with the Sovereign. With the aid of the Zemsky Sobor and according to its decisions, were carried out tax reform and reform of Prikazy, i.e. prototypes of Ministries were created. A new Judicial Code was adopted, as time had passed since the last one, and the state itself and relations in society had somewhat changed. Ivan also creates a professional Streltsy (Fusiliers) army. In order for a part of the most combative cavalry to be always close at hand and, in general, so that there were trustworthy people nearby to rely on, Ivan carried out such a non-trivial personnel and land decision through distributing land near Moscow to a thousand chosen boyars and sons of boyars. In other words, it was a kind of Ivan Guards units, which, at the first call, could gather &quot;in number, on horseback and armed&quot; and instantly set out in his support. For the first time, the principle of seniority, or order of precedence, was somewhat restrained, at least parochial disputes were prohibited during the war. But the above were all just internal reforms, when most of all we are interested in foreign policy and state growth. VOLGA - THE RUSSIAN RIVER The main five successes of Ivan Vasilyevich in expanding the borders of the state were: Kazan, Astrakhan, Bashkir lands, the Nogai Horde and the Siberian Khanate. Let's see how Ivan conquered Kazan. The Kazan Khanate, as well as the Astrakhan, Siberian or Crimean Khanate, were all fragments of the Golden Horde, a huge Empire that had crumbled into its constituent parts. Then, there were two thorns in the Moscow state's side, namely the Crimean and Kazan Khanates, which were the origin of constant devastating raids on its territory. Before the conquest of Kazan, up to one hundred thousand Russians found themselves in captivity, in a state of slavery, a colossal figure for those times. It was obvious that it was necessary to somehow deal with both Crimea and Kazan. It was easier with Kazan, because, firstly, it was much closer, secondly, the Ottoman Empire stood behind Crimea, and thirdly, a specific internal political situation had developed in Kazan. First, let's see what the Kazan Khanate was like. It was not the territory of modern Tatarstan, no, it was a much larger state formation, which stretched as far as modern Saratov in the south, Moscow possessions in the north and west, and spread to the Ural Mountains in the east where it bordered with the Siberian Khanate. The city of Kazan was a first-class military fortress, protected by the most modern weapons and artillery. However, not all Kazan Tatars served Kazan, but many served Moscow, including in the Russian army and at the Tsar's court. And in Kazan itself, there was a very strong pro-Russian party of supporters of the alliance and even unification with Moscow. So, there were actually two political parties - of those Tatars who stood for Moscow and of those Tatars who stood for Crimea and, accordingly, for Constantinople and the Ottoman Empire. These sides were at war with each other and periodically one or the other seized power and nominated its candidate for the Khan of the Kazan Khanate. Kazan then housed a huge number of Russian merchants and trade missions, and even an entire Streltsy (Fusiliers) regiment that supported our pro-Russian Khan. When Ivan the Terrible came to power in Moscow, the pro-Crimean party prevailed in Kazan, which then violated allied obligations and, moreover, behaved not very delicately, having arranged the expulsion of Russian merchants. Well, it was necessary to restore constitutional order, as we would say now, and several military campaigns against Kazan were consistently staged. They turned out to be unsuccessful for various reasons, but in the end, Ivan the Terrible realised that in order to defeat the Kazan Khanate, it was necessary to establish a firm stronghold in its vicinity, a military base, since it was unrealistic to take over this territory given such distances. The young Tsar had noted and turned his attention to the ideal location of one mountain in the military-strategic sense, literally thirty miles away from the Kazan fortress. This place would become the city of Sviyazhsk, a Russian fortress right under Kazan's very nose. However, the following question arose: how you could quickly build a fortress in a place where, firstly, there was no building material, but most importantly there was a shortage of time - you start building a fortress and it would take years; besides, the Tatars could come and simply demolish it. A fantastic solution was found - such was the know-how of that time - the fortress was built in the upper reaches of the Volga, all the logs were numbered, the fortress construction project was approved and agreed upon, then the fortress was dismantled and floated downstream so that it could be assembled in a new place. Within one month, right under the enemy's nose, the Sviyazhsk fortress was assembled from scratch - and it was a very large structure - it was even larger in area than the vast Moscow Kremlin. Warehouses and reserves were quartered there, and from there the conquest of the Kazan Khanate began. In addition to the fortress that appeared out of nowhere right in front of their eyes, the second surprise for Kazan was that a significant, if not a larger part of the Russian army constituted Tatars, yes, Tatars, only allied to Moscow. And the third surprise was that almost all the peoples subservient to Kazan: the Chuvash, the Mari, and the Mordvins, refused to oppose Moscow and agreed to become subjects of the Grand Duke after the victory. In front of the city gates, special enormous mobile wooden assault towers were built from the height of which continuous artillery fire was conducted on Kazan. Further, under the cover of these assault towers, the Russians filled up the moat, dug trenches under the fortress walls and installed powder charges underneath. Eventually the city fell, the Khan was captured, but not executed or even imprisoned, but taken into the service of the Moscow Tsar. He converted into Orthodoxy and after that repeatedly led military campaigns of the Russian army and, by the way, showed himself bravely in the Livonian War. He was the last acting Khan in the Russian service and the Kazan Khanate had since thus become part of Russia. Therefore, when someone tells you it was the outright conquest of Kazan by Moscow, it is true, but not exactly so, because in essence, it was a civil war and a clash between two Tatar sides within the Kazan Khanate, one of which was supported by Crimea and Constantinople, and the other was supported by Moscow. The very fact of the storming of Kazan, of course, is evident; that's why on my list of Ivan the Terrible's conquests, I have marked Kazan in black ink, but Astrakhan, the next point, was not taken by force, but swore allegiance to Moscow of its own accord. Thus, Ivan the Terrible had added 'Tsar of Kazan and Tsar of Astrakhan' and later would add 'Ruler of All Siberian Land' to his title. In the same way, the lands of the Nogai Horde became Russian, for these were just the territories between Kazan and Astrakhan. Part of the population that did not want to recognize the power of Moscow quietly packed up their belongings and migrated to the Crimean Khanate. And so, by the middle of the 16th century, the entire Volga region had become Russian. It became much cheaper to trade along the Volga, because of the fewer duties, and much safer, because a single central government ensured order. THE SOUTHERN BORDERS OF RUSSIA Speaking about the era of Ivan the Terrible, about the territorial growth of the country and the fixation of its colossal and ever-expanding borders, it is just impossible not to discuss such a striking phenomenon in our history as the Zasechnaya Cherta or Great Abatis Line. We are all familiar with the Great Wall of China, which in the literal sense of its functionality was a rather useless structure, so today there is so much mythology around it that they even say that, allegedly, it was actually built during the time of Mao Zedong. We shall not discuss this topic, especially since we know for certain that it was us who built our Great Russian Wall, which was much more efficient, reliable and even longer than the Chinese one. In itself, it represented a forest belt on the border with the steppe, whereas strictly in a certain order, according to engineering calculations, the front edges of trees were undercut and the trunks tilted at a certain angle in the direction of a possible enemy attack. It was impossible for a mounted rider to pass through the debris at all, it was also impossible to break through in formation, and the only way to overcome it was to squeeze through on foot, while tearing all clothes to shreds in the process. Gates were built between these abatis sections, like checkpoints on a real border, and if some area was treeless, wooden walls were erected, sometimes two rows of stakes deep, sometimes three, and in some places, there were four-row deep walls. At the same time, its entire stretch was guarded, and the length of the Great Abatis Line was more than a thousand kilometres, longer than the Chinese Wall. After the collapse of the Great Horde, the Crimean Khanate made the slave trade and abduction of Russian people literally its main business. And they had a regular customer, the Ottomans, because the Turks, their Navy and construction needed a constant influx of slave labour and they paid very well for captured Russian slaves. Ivan the Terrible could not deal with the Crimean Khanate the same way as with Kazan and Astrakhan, because the Ottomans stood behind Crimea. The Great Abatis Line Watch, which carried a constant vigil along the borderline, accepted everyone with no questions asked. Who joined it in the first place? Fugitives, and also prisoners of war who wanted to change prison and shackles for the sovereign's service were settled there. Special mobile patrol detachments were formed from these men, which went off in small teams to reconnoiter the steppe. A certain area of about 30-50 kilometers was assigned to each patrol unit. The steppe dwellers going on a raid were noticed and reported to the Line in advance, after which people were sheltered in fortresses, cattle were taken to the forest, and the garrisons moved forward. Their task was to detain the enemy at the Line and hold out as long as possible so that the Tsar could have time to assemble his army to counter the assault. Now let's look at our western neighbours, Lithuania and later, the united state with Poland, the Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth. They had the same problem, i.e. constant Crimean raids, but no large-scale construction of defensive fortifications was carried out there. The local elites simply locked themselves in fortresses and holed up there, whilst what would happen to the surrounding villages did not bother the slyakhta (gentry) whatsoever. The result of this was obvious - when Moscow came to defend these lands, the population of the southern outskirts waved goodbye to the local gentry at the first opportunity. It was in those days, in fact, that the first border guard force was born and we even know the name of its first leader - Prince Mikhail Vorotynsky, Rurikovich and an excellent commander. The guards on the Line easily repelled small raids, but when a large enemy army advanced, then, of course, no Abatis Line and no border guards could hold it back. And so, in 1571, the Crimean Khan, Devlet Giray, with a large army of 40 000 cavalry broke through the Zasechnaya Cherta and attacked Moscow, because nothing could stop him anymore, since our entire main army was stuck in the Livonian War. Well, he couldn't take the Kremlin. Remember, I asked you a question about the fact that no one could ever take the Kremlin by storm, but we ourselves could only foolishly open its gates to the enemy. Anyway, Devlet Giray burned Moscow down outside the Kremlin walls and inflicted enormous damage, but, most importantly, several tens of thousands of Muscovites were taken captive. Then, the Crimeans decided that was it, the next step would be the complete conquest of the Moscow Kingdom. They already assumed that Moscow would become part of the Crimean Khanate, and not Crimea would be ours, but, vice versa, Moscow would become Crimean. Devlet Giray convinced the Turkish Sultan, his suzerain, that now was the right moment to strike the final blow and, by the way, even managed to nudge from him 7 000 janissaries, the most super elite fighting force by those European standards; and with a twice bigger army, more than eighty thousand men, along with his court and baggage train moved on Moscow again. This time, Devlet Giray declared that he was not going on a raid, but was going to Moscow to reign. We did not have an army capable of stopping him - we barely managed to put together a little more than 20 000 troops, including border guards, oprichniks, detachments of boyar children, noble cavalry and even German mercenaries, as well as calling on the Cossack Zaporozhian Army to help. However, it still turned out to be four times less than the Crimean forces. And then, the Khan made a fatal mistake - he already felt like a winner, and that it could not have been otherwise, since Ivan the Terrible had left the capital and, according to rumours, had even entered into negotiations with the English, asking the English ambassador to negotiate temporary political asylum for him in England. Thank God it didn't come to that, because, undoubtedly, the British would have deceived him and thrown to the mercy of fate at the last minute, as they would do many times after that, it's enough to remember the destiny of our Nicholas II. Nevertheless, there was almost no army in the capital, which was preparing for defense, and the only ones who could stop Devlet Giray were Vorotynsky and Khvorostinin. They caught up with the Crimean army from their positions on the Great Abatis Line and hit it from the rear. Devlet Giray turned his troops, but the Russians had already built a Gulyai-gorod (wandering town), a famous fortress made of wagon carts and thick wooden shields connected with each other by iron chain according to a certain principle, which could not be pierced with arrows, and the Tatars did not have cannons, because it was a mounted army after all. The Tatars tried to storm Gulyai-gorod, but to no avail. The bloody battle around it lasted for three days, and at the last moment, which is very important to feel, because it was a turning point, our commanders secretly withdrew part of their army from the fortress and again hit the Tatars in the rear. Caught between our troops striking from the rear and Gulyai-gorod, panic began in the Tatar ranks, several of their commanders were killed, after which the enemy fled and our troops pursued them as far as the Oka River. All in all, out of an army of 80 000, only 15 000 remained alive. Such irreparable damage was inflicted on the Crimean Khanate that after that they were never ever able to assemble a sufficient army for another big campaign against Moscow. And for several decades afterwards, until the Tatar male combat-ready population was replenished, there were just no raid attempts on Russia at all. This battle of Molodi on August 02, 1572 was, in fact, one of the pivotal points in Russian history. If Vorotynsky and Khvorostinin's army had been defeated, if Devlet Giray had captured Moscow, if, God forbid, Ivan the Terrible had really left the country, then, most likely, our country would no longer exist in the form that we know it today. Therefore, the Battle of Molodi is no less significant for our history than Poltava or Kulikovo Field. It has just been forgotten, because it was not fashionable for the great liberal historians of the 19th century, and the Soviet historians of the 20th century, to remember this event, and to talk about Ivan the Terrible as the winner and saviour of the motherland, especially since, let's be honest, in this case he personally did not play any role. But what played a role here, was a new type of army, new organisation of military affairs, and, of course, the talent of our military leaders and the bravery of the Russian soldiers who stood to death. To learn more about the Battle of Molodi, I invite you to my favourite Museum of Military Uniform, located right in the centre of Moscow at Bolshaya Nikitskaya 46. There is even a separate exhibition hall dedicated to it and a small visual reconstruction of the battle. There, you can hold in your hands, replicas of Russian weapons from the time of Ivan the Terrible and Tatar weapons, and also book a special tour, during which professional guides will tell you much more interesting details about it. HISTORY FACULTY Now, on top of these sheets with my previous notes on whose grandson and son Ivan the Terrible was, I shall put my current list of territories and peoples that joined Russia in the era of Ivan IV. It is almost impossible to talk about Ivan the Terrible without talking about the Oprichnina, because the terror and executions that accompanied it have become part of both his and our history. The Oprichnina began in 1565 and Ivan the Terrible was then 35 years old. But before we talk about it, you need to understand the context of that time. To this day, historians cannot explain why Ivan the Terrible took this seemingly inexplicable and absurd step. So, it was 1565, the height of the Livonian War. By this time, everything was fine in the Kingdom of Ivan the Terrible - Kazan and Astrakhan were conquered, huge territories were annexed to Russia and all local peoples in large numbers voluntarily joined the Moscow state. The Nogai Horde, this gigantic territory, also recognized its dependence on Russia, and so Ivan the Terrible's eyes turned to the west, towards Livonia. But here, the war lingered on and the Tsar decided to introduce a state of emergency, as they would say now, in the country. This state of emergency went down in history under the name of Oprichnina. This was the name of a small plot of land that a widow received in temporary possession after her husband's death so that there was something for her to live on. This piece of land was called oprichnina, from the word oprich, or krome, meaning except, that is, except for other, larger land holdings that were inherited already by her husband's heirs, adult sons, or returned to the state if there was no one left in the family to serve. We remember that a pomeschik (landowner), from the Russian verb 'to place', was literally placed on a plot of land for the time of his military service to the state. While he was in active service, he received income from this land, or could transfer it to his children only if they continued to serve in the army, and if there were none, then this land was returned to the state, with the exception of a small allotment, or oprichnina. What happened then? Suddenly, taking advantage of a completely insignificant pretext, Ivan the Terrible disappeared, simply vanished from the capital. It turned out that he, without telling anyone, along with his family, part of the Boyar Duma, i.e. his personal guards, and, most importantly, with the royal treasury, left for Alexandrovskaya Sloboda; now it is the city of Alexandrov. Muscovites and all the remaining boyars were shocked - they did not understand what had happened, why the Tsar had left Moscow abandoning his supreme power. Ivan the Terrible sent two letters from Alexandrovskaya Sloboda: one to the Boyar Duma, and the second to the residents of Moscow. For the first time in history, the Tsar addressed Muscovites directly, stating that he was giving up the throne and did not want to reign anymore. As if in absentia, he accused the boyars and clergy of treason, and said that he had no anger and hard feelings towards the people, but with such a government, if I may say so, or, in modern terms, parliament, he wanted nothing to do. Then, the shocked boyars almost crawled on their knees to the Alexandrovskaya Sloboda, begging the Tsar to return. However, the Tsar stood his ground and demanded that certain conditions be fulfilled. First, he demanded for himself, in modern parlance, extraordinary powers, I quote, &quot;To rule as the Tsar pleases and have freedom to execute or pardon traitors at his discretion.&quot; This was followed by his second demand: to allocate a part of the state territory to his personal possession, where there would be its own special governing bodies, separate treasury and financial policy, as well as its own separate army. This part of the state territory was allocated to Ivan the Terrible as an appanage, as to that widow, and would be called oprichnina. The rest of the Russian land would be called zemshchina, or boyar domains, as opposed to oprichnina, where the Boyar Duma could rule and live as it pleased and the Tsar would not interfere in its affairs. What happened next? The Tsar returned to the throne, and an Oprichny Court was built in Moscow, an alternative Kremlin as such, on modern Manezhnaya Square, right next to the actual Kremlin. A corps of oprichniks was formed, initially from a thousand of nobles, who were recruited solely on recommendation and where a candidate's track record and family were thoroughly considered. The life of the oprichniks was built on the principle of a monastic community; they even dressed in black, like monks. Their horses were mostly black, and a dog head and a broom were strapped to the saddles as a sign that they were loyal to the Sovereign like dogs, and would sweep out treason like a broom - a sinister image of the Tsar's special forces. Let's move on from form to content, the question here is different: why did Ivan the Terrible come up with all this at all? The main version given in textbooks is as follows: he did it to suppress the boyar opposition, establish control over the Boyar Duma, the Church and, in general, the entire elite of Russia of that time, which allegedly prevented Ivan the Terrible from ruling autocratically as befitted a Sovereign Tsar. However, the Tsar suppressed not only the Boyar Duma, but also the nobility and the townspeople; everyone suffered and, therefore, it is hard to believe that this was the only and main reason. The idea is also put forward that the Tsar wanted to renew the elites, although it is difficult to believe that Ivan the Terrible would have thought in such categories. There is a most interesting version by historians that Ivan the Terrible, being a deeply pious and religious man, was preparing for the end of the world. Well, we know that, indeed, many then predicted the imminent end of the world sometime at the end of the 16th century, because then the chronology followed a completely different calendar and round dates were approaching, like in modern times we have witnessed an effect of the number 2 000, the onset of the millennium; and then it was the same, only 500 years ago. What an amazing version! And finally, the most obvious explanation is that the Tsar just went crazy. I'll tell you honestly, both before and after the introduction of the Oprichnina, Ivan the Terrible managed to make so many non-trivial decisions, getting out of so many difficult situations from which it would seem impossible to get out, that I don't believe at all that he simply lost his mind. Of course, what kind of reform could it be without financial backing. The Tsar imposed a huge tax, but in fact a contribution, on zemshchina, or boyar domains, i.e. the rest of the country, or rather, the elite who lived there, in the amount of one hundred thousand rubles. The owners of estates in the Oprichnina zone were relocated, and oprichniks settled in their places. And it was good if they were resettled, as many of them were arrested and executed. At some stage of the Oprichnina, Ivan the Terrible was informed that a conspiracy was brewing against him - allegedly, they were plotting to kill him or extradite him to the Polish King. It looks like there was no conspiracy at all, but Ivan the Terrible only needed an excuse - as a result, the 'conspirators' were executed by whole families, and the victims numbered in the hundreds. The apotheosis of terror was, as we know, the defeat of Novgorod and Pskov. Historians believe that from seven to ten thousand people fell victim to the executions and the Novgorod pogrom. Ivan the Terrible was an amazing man, and after the Oprichnina, he began to make lists of murdered people, repent and send these lists to monasteries with royal instructions to pray for their souls. Officially, the Oprichnina lasted seven years, from 1565 to 1572. And what was happening in the outside world at that moment? I don't mention this as an excuse of our domestic affairs, but simultaneously with the Oprichnina, the memorable St. Bartholomew Night happened in Paris, during which, according to various estimates, at least 3 000 Huguenots were killed overnight in the capital alone, and about 10 000 more in other cities. These figures significantly exceed the number of victims of the Oprichnina terror in all seven years. In her attempt to restore Catholicism, Henry VIII's daughter, the notorious Bloody Mary, personally ordered Protestants to be burned alive. And all over England they were burned by the hundreds. There is one difference here - after all, in our country it all did not take the form of a regulated law, whereas in England it transpired in the form of bloody Tudor legislation - laws against beggars and homeless. During the time of Ivan the Terrible, several tens of thousands of unfortunate former peasants were executed in England, again according to various estimates. Similar laws were passed at the legislative level, without any emotion, also in the Netherlands. What was done to the rebels at that time? The Duke of Alba also created his own Commission on the principle of Oprichnina and in each city, just for the sake of prevention, Alba used to hang several dozen citizens at once and did it publicly. Once, in order to force the surrender of rebellious Dutch cities, in one of the small towns that Alba had taken by storm, again, for preventive purposes, all residents, including children, women and the elderly, were executed. However, European historians have made our Ivan Vasilyevich a symbol of barbaric despotism; and in the English translation, as we remember, Ivan IV was nicknamed the Terrible. DEATH OF IVAN IV's SON It is impossible not to mention another well-known plot - the murder of Ivan the Terrible of his eldest son and heir. Everyone knows the corresponding painting by Ilya Repin. The picture is emotionally extremely powerful and, of course, it overshadowed all historical research, as a result of which everyone now knows that Ivan the Terrible killed his own son in a fit of anger, hitting him on the head with his staff. Why did he hit him? Allegedly, he caught his son's wife dressed in an inappropriate manner, and in an outrage, he began to beat his daughter-in-law, for whom his son stood up and got hit on the head. This version was presented by the papal legate, Possevino, who, again, let's submerge into the historical context, came to Moscow to see Ivan the Terrible for the reason of persuading him to accept the Florentine Union, i.e. to subordinate Orthodoxy to the papal throne. Possevino did not succeed, his offer was rejected and upon his return to Rome, he wrote down everything negative that he could write about Ivan the Terrible, all the gossip and hearsay. But are such sources trustworthy? I don't know. Karamzin gives another version of events, according to which, Ivan the Terrible became angry at his son's desire to take part in the Livonian War. Do you believe it? I don't think so. Another source, English this time, is Jerome Gorsay, who wrote that Ivan the Terrible attacked and beat his son to death, being dissatisfied with his son's order to give some nobleman several horses without the Tsar's knowledge. Do you believe it? I don't, especially considering that the same Jerome Gorsay also outlined his version of the death of Ivan the Terrible himself. According to his version, the Tsar was strangled by his entourage, because they had had enough of his tyranny. And this is just another unreliable source. From all this abundance of versions, only one certain fact can be established, namely, that Ivan the Terrible's son died not in Moscow, but on his way somewhere on a pilgrimage and obviously a few weeks after the described episode of a quarrel with his father. Again, this proves nothing - he could have died as a result of the beating, or he could have just caught a cold and died of it. As one of my friends, a historian who has studied this subject specifically, says, &quot;in the absence of evidence, the presumption of innocence should work and, therefore, it would only be correct to assume that Ivan the Terrible did not kill his son either by accident in a fit of anger, or on purpose, or any way otherwise&quot;. In this case, I am not imposing any of these versions on you and you should decide for yourselves. But in general, as Alexander Sergeevich Pushkin once said in one of his letters, and I shall convey his words, in my opinion very deep, in a free interpretation: &quot;I can't stand my government from head to toe and many of the rules established in our country, but even more I can't stand when foreigners criticise us for these rules.&quot; THE LIVONIAN WAR It is also impossible not to discuss the Livonian War, which, in fact, became one of the causes of internal terror in our country. The Livonian Order was not exactly a single state as such, but it was a complex confederation, i.e. a union of several subjects of power under the patronage and protection of the German knights, since it included episcopal lands, self-governing cities, various communities, as well as the Livonian Order's own possessions, located approximately on the territory of the modern Baltic States. The Livonian Order was surrounded by young predators - on the one side there was Sweden, which had just gained final independence from Copenhagen, on the other side, there was Poland, which was fighting to expand its access to the Baltic Sea, and on the third side, there was Denmark, whose knights participated in the Ice Battle back in the time of Alexander Nevsky. The Danes had their own outposts, colonies on the Baltic coast and, in fact, how does the name of the city of Tallinn translate? That's right, Tallinn means 'Danish city' in Estonian. Further, among the neighbours of the Livonian Order was also the Grand Duchy of Lithuania, which was closest and pushed it from the south, and which was not averse to taking over its territories and, most importantly, profitable seaports. And finally, from the point of view of the Moscow state, the territory of the Livonian Order as far as Prussia was also, in whole or in part, the ancestral lands of the Rurikovichi, that is, we had a moral right to these lands. And last but not least, the most important aspect was the financial aspect. Russia had long traded with Northern Europe, since ancient Novgorod times, but with the advent and strengthening of the Livonian Order, with the advent of the Crusaders, trade became significantly less profitable. Our ships were not allowed to trade directly, which was the reason for the huge surcharges on Russian goods. Do you know what the difference was between the purchase price of furs and their retail price in Europe? Fifty times. By the way, so that you understand why fur was an expensive commodity in those years, and for Russia it was equal to export of strategic raw materials today. First of all, it was an element of status clothing, just like now girls walk around with unthinkable branded handbags for unthinkable money, although we all understand that this piece of leather made in China cannot possibly be worth such insane money and its consumer value is in no way comparable to the price that is paid for it as a status attribute. Similarly, an item of high status were sable, mink, arctic fox and beaver, especially since it was much colder in Europe then than it is today - the Danube and the canals of Amsterdam froze in winter, so at least there was a certain consumer benefit from furs back then, and therefore, they were expensive. We also had other claims to the Livonian Order - once, 300 specialists of various profiles, doctors, mining engineers, metallurgists, gunsmiths, builders, etc. were invited from Europe to work in Russia. They were supposed to come to teach us new technologies, for which they received a substantial advance payment, but the Livonians detained them all, arrested them and even held them in prison for several years without any trial. We tried to build a port on the Narva River in order to gain convenient access to the Baltic Sea, but our ships were blocked there and simply not given free passage. Because, again, economic benefits and competition determined everything, and Russian merchants were simply denied access to direct trade with Europe. Therefore, the issue here was not about some kind of exceptional aggressiveness of Ivan the Terrible, since all neighbours, without exception, coveted the lands of the weakened Livonian Order. The only question was rather who would attack it first. And a member of the Elected Rada, Alexei Adashev, who was responsible for foreign policy, found a wonderful reason to start war action. It turned out that the Livonian Order owed a lot of money to Moscow. You should remember that the wonderful Estonian city of Tartu, aka the German city of Dorpat, was actually the Russian city of Yuryev, founded by Yaroslav the Wise, and many years before that, the Livonians undertook to pay Moscow a certain fixed amount for this city as rent payment. At first, this payment was promised to Pskov, and the Livonians did not pay, then when Pskov became part of the Russian state they were to pay Moscow, but again failed to pay. Alexey Adashev had unearthed this story, began negotiations with the Livonian ambassadors and presented them with an invoice. The ambassadors of the Livonian Order were horrified by the amount, but they couldn't plead ignorance, because according to the documents, everything was correct and they were liable to pay. Then the Livonians began to stall for time. Ivan the Terrible was a great master of PR events, and Livonian representatives were once invited to the Kremlin for a feast. It was an honourable and pleasant occasion; the Livonians came and sat down at the table, while Ivan the Terrible himself was at the head of the table with the entourage of the boyars. All sorts of dishes began to be brought to the tables, except the one at which the Livonian ambassadors were sitting. So, the feast lasted for several hours, and the Livonians could neither leave, so as not to violate protocol, nor have any food. The subtext was this: everything you would have eaten would have gone to offset the debt for Yuriev, we shall write off the cost of dinner from your debt, so next time you can come again. It was 1558, the debt was never settled and thus the Livonian War began, first against the Livonian Order and the German knights, and then with several states at the same time. The Russian army crushed the military might of the Crusaders quite quickly, but we were not ready for what followed, since we did not have time to occupy the entire territory of Livonia. The fact is that those territories that were conditionally part of the Livonian sonfederation, seeing the Russian offensive and their victories, very quickly turned for protection to neighbouring states, namely, Poland, Lithuania and Sweden. This meant that Ivan the Terrible found himself at war not only with the Livonian Order, but also with at least three other countries at the same time. We tried to negotiate, tried to maneuver, but nothing seemed to work. In addition, the Danes also began to help our opponents and a protracted, grueling war against the allied coalition began and lasted for more than 25 years. We had to fight on several fronts at once, despair reigned inside the country and Oprichnina was introduced. There was an attempt to strengthen the army with oprichniks, but they were not quite professional military men and had little combat experience. Naturally, the weakened Moscow was immediately hit by the Crimea, and it became worse when Stefan Batory, a Hungarian by birth and a gifted commander, was elected King of Poland. He inflicted several sensitive defeats on the army of Ivan the Terrible and at some stage even managed to bring over the fighting from Livonia to Russian territory, besieged Pskov and Velikiye Luki, but then the scythe found a stone, so to speak, and Stefan Batory failed to take Pskov. When his troops came to our land, here, an amazing phenomenon revealed itself, of which Batory later wrote to Krakow that it was impossible to fight with the Russians, because they had... partisans. People went into the woods, covertly attacked his troops and caused serious damage - this phenomenon was first so figuratively described by Stefan Batory. This was a good part of our history. But on the whole, let's call a spade a spade, the Livonian War was still an aggressive act on the part of Ivan the Terrible and all those claims to the ancestral lands of the Rurikovichi on the Baltic coastline were very conditional, although Livonians really owed us money. But, when the war came to our land, to Pskov, it immediately acquired the character of a patriotic war. Russia emerged from the Livonian War without major territorial losses, but very weakened. Firstly, the economic factor played its role and Ivan the Terrible had simply miscalculated his strength, hoping for a quick war with just a single Livonia, but eventually got a war against Northern Europe. Secondly, there was the factor of international isolation and Ivan the Terrible fully understood how dangerous and unacceptable it was, if allowed; he tried to maneuver, sought alliances, for example, with Sweden, which he tried to pull out of the anti-Russian coalition through marriage that had been originally proposed by the Swedish King himself. It was a pretty funny story. Eric XIV proposed to Ivan the Terrible to marry his younger brother's wife. I do not know what kind of relationship they had there between the King of Sweden and his brother, but soon it was his brother who became the new King, and, of course, did not give his wife to Ivan the Terrible, but, moreover, began to fight with redoubled zeal against the Russian state. Mind you, Ivan the Terrible and his women is a whole separate topic. Similarly, he tried to make an alliance with England through marriage with Elizabeth, but nothing came of it either. We lost the war, but let's be honest, we got off pretty much easily. THE CONQUEST OF SIBERIA Now, about the next stage of the Russian land expansion - the conquest of Siberia or the war against the Siberian Khanate. You see, these were all nomadic lands and, therefore, had no clear borders; on ancient maps of territories from the Urals to the Pacific Ocean they were designated as Tartaria, an unknown land. There are several versions of the origin of the word 'Siberia'. From the Mongolian 'shibir', i.e. swamp, swampy area; from the self-name of the local Tatars, who called themselves 'Sabirs'; from the Turkic 'siber', which means beautiful. It seems to me that all these versions equally have the right to exist, because, indeed, this land is very picturesque; this is the land where strong men live, and the climate there is very harsh in places, a lot of swamps and gnats, this is also true. When the Great Horde fell apart, the Siberian Khanate emerged on its ruins, and sometimes it is called the Tyumen Khanate. Then, having broken away from the Golden Horde, the Siberian Khans immediately requested a protectorate from Moscow, because Ivan the Terrible declared himself not only as the heir of Rurik, but also as the heir of the Horde, therefore, he was the Tsar, or Caesar. According to Ivan the Terrible's logic, these were all his fiefdoms, either current or future. And so, the Siberian Khans, in order to fend off their sovereignty from the southern Khanates, turned to Moscow. Ivan the Terrible ruled that from then on, they would be considered his tributaries and promised his support. Local beys (Turkic - nobility) received from Moscow a token for the reign, and pledged to pay a symbolic tribute - one sable skin per male hunter. However, when the southern Bukhara Khans came with an army, Ivan the Terrible could not protect them, because he was completely distracted by the war in Livonia. And so, the Bukharans seized this territory and Kuchum Khan, known to us from school history textbooks, became the ruler, who not only captured the Tyumen-Siberian Khanate, but also began to actively assail neighbouring territories, and first of all, the possessions of the Stroganovs, our famous merchant family. At that time, the Stroganovs owned huge territories on the border with the Siberian Khanate and they had their own, by modern standards, private military company of Cossacks with arquebuses and cannons, i.e. a proper PMC. And in 1581, the Stroganovs set on foot their PMC under the command of Yermak Timofeyevich to repel the enemy. Yermak's detachment consisted of less than a thousand people: 540 Cossacks and another 300 Lithuanian and German mercenaries hired among prisoners of the Livonian War. Yermak took advantage of the fact that Kuchum Khan with his main army had just gone on a campaign to plunder the Russians at that moment. Why was he called Yermak when his actual name was Ermolai, Ermolai Timofeyevich? In his army, among the Cossacks, Yermak was, of course, addressed by his nickname, i.e. he had his own combat call sign, as we would say now. Do you know what his call sign was, which will immediately explain his character to you? 'Tokmak', which in Old Russian meant a large wooden mallet or club. A detachment of Cossacks set off, one might say, into nowhere, into the unknown. They simply could not lose, because there was nowhere to expect help from. They had cannons that the Tatars of Kuchum Khan did not have, but what did they have that was most important? Ermak's Cossacks did not just have enthusiasm, they had passion, and only this passion ensured their victory. The local population was not against a good skirmish either, since Kuchum Khan was an outsider to them, whose father had seized power by overthrowing that local dynasty that turned to Ivan the Terrible for protection. Why else did they support Yermak and, in principle, the Moscow authority? Because they were offered a much softer, lenient and comfortable taxation system, as well as profitable trade and commodity exchange with Moscow of weapons, tools and other iron goods, i.e. more necessary and beneficial items than those produced domestically or that could potentially be delivered by Kuchum Khan's merchants from the steppes and deserts of Central Asia. Thirdly, it was the factor of religious tolerance, the main competitive advantage of Russian pioneers. And finally, military protection of the Cossacks, a much stronger and organised force than Kuchum Khan's. Yermak established good relations with local residents and their oath to Ivan the Terrible was taken in full compliance with all relevant rituals. Locals could take the oath according to any adopted custom, for example, by standing on a bearskin, sharing a drink from a gold cup or walking between the halves of a dog cut in two. Russians were in no hurry to convert everyone to Orthodoxy - people got closer gradually, on common grounds, and quite a lot of mixed marriages began to occur. By the way, all Russian people in Siberia had always been and would remain free, because serfdom, thank God, did not find its way there. Local hunters were subject to a small fur yasak, or natural tax. Recently, I've laid my hands on an issue of the 'Dilettante' magazine, a most curious read, I tell you. 'Dilettante' is an interesting magazine, but the political position of the publisher becomes obvious from every line. Here, its authors write: &quot;All in all, it took three hundred years to conquer Siberia and this process finally ended when Japan recognized our rights to Sakhalin at the end of the 19th century.&quot; Excuse me, what three hundred years?! There are no words to comment on this statement, since even the most desperate Western Russophobic historians consider the addition of Chukotka under Catherine II to be the year of the completion of the conquest of Siberia, although I disagree with the term 'conquest'. But, the 'Dilettante' has surpassed them all: &quot;In Siberia, sable was exterminated in the same way as bison in America.&quot; Well, my dilettante friends, at the present moment, the sable population in Siberia is just immeasurable. Now tell me, where are the bison in America now, with the possible exception of some zoos? The article then proceeds, comparing the extermination of local Siberian peoples with the extermination of American Indians. How many Indians were originally in America and how many are there now? And now, look at the number of any 'conquered' peoples of Siberia and the number of the same peoples now. HISTORY FACULTY We were talking about the Livonian War, Ermak's campaign in Siberia and Oprichnina - but, what about the country on the whole? How did it actually live under Ivan the Terrible? Let's start with mestnichestvo, or order of precedence/seniority. In the language of the history textbook, mestnichestvo was a system of hierarchy of the nobility, which determined the order of appointments in the civil service, that is, it determined a person's status in the hierarchy of power. The status of an individual in this hierarchy was stipulated firstly by official postings taken previously by his ancestors and relatives, and secondly by the length of service in this position. Let's say that someone aspired to the position of Voivode (Military Governor or Army Commander) and there were several candidates. A person who had a grandfather serving previously in the same or equal position in this or a neighbouring city had a better chance. He could claim a higher appointment than the one whose father had previously been a boyar or voivode. Only the male line of the family was taken into account, and it did not matter who the relatives of one's wife or mother were or had been. For one's access to the assumption of a particular post, from Head of a Prikaz (Minister) and further down the hierarchy, all these kinship relations, along with seniority/joint family service record length, were important. It was an unrealistically complex and confusing system. In the system of mestnichestvo, as in Einstein's theory of relativity, two inextricable concepts were combined - time and space - that is, your place and status in the queue and duration of your existence in this queue. The order of precedence and correctness of appointments was monitored by Ratings Department. For resolution of disputes there were special voluminous reference books for &quot;a quick search for precedents&quot; - modern London lawyers would have probably gone berserk. It also contained various information about both career advancement and demotion, for instance, there were compilations of records referring to undue and, therefore, disgraceful places of service in respect of this or that noble family. If, say, someone from a boyar family once served as the commander of a Streltsy (Fusiliers) detachment or worked in some Prikaz (Ministry) not as a boss, but as a courier or a scribe in his youth, i.e. his job didn't befit his status, then if he had ever held such a low position, which could happen for various reasons, like money was needed or the Tsar decided so, it left an imprint on his career and his status and place on the hierarchical ladder were thence lowered. There was a special Boyar Court, a court of honour, which dealt with related disputes. A promotion in status could be obtained for personal merits, or by becoming related, say, to the royal family; however, your main merit was your ancestors, for it was their achievements that determined your place in current and future life. Ivan the Terrible, having become Tsar but still being a youth, at first tried to straighten this system as best he could, but later he saw how, even in such an orderly form, mestnichestvo interfered in real life, and therefore made an epoch-making decision for his time - abolished this system for the duration of the war - and wars were incessantly going on back then. His decree stated that until the end of the war, &quot;it was necessary to temporarily cease to take into account if one of the voivodes happened to be subordinate to someone his junior in the hierarchy, which would not be considered a precedent and thus reflected in the ratings book records&quot;. That is, this person would not thus disgrace himself and would not fall into a lower position in this super table of ratings. Now about the system of kormleniye (in Russian - feeding, sustainment), i.e. method of upkeeping officials. Many now believe that one's appointment for kormleniye was something simplistic - go rob the people as you wish and live off it. No, it was a reward, like a battle order. Who was entitled to the privilege? Military commanders, officials, judges, governors, and the like. Kormleniye meant the right to support yourself by charging your subservient population with satisfying your sustenance needs through provision of various items, such as grain, meat, cheese, horse fodder, and the like. This right was not granted on a permanent basis, but usually for a period of one to five years depending on your merits. At that, the entitled person actually did some work, i.e. he fulfilled administrative duties and had, as we would say now, to spend some time in the office, say, in a government building or Prikaz. Officials were issued special confirmation papers, which indicated not only the term, but also the norm of sustenance items collection. However, in 1556, the young Ivan the Terrible, then 26 years old, eliminated this system too, and not because it was considered unfair, no, but for rational reasons. Firstly, the number of those entitled was constantly growing, because old and well-deserved people did not go anywhere, and new ones had to be rewarded with something, so the allotments reserved for kormleniye were further and further fragmented and downsized, and the smaller the size of the allotment, the less it brought income, so much so that those who were in the system began to look for ways to earn a few extra bob, somehow on the side. In this regard, corruption and improper allocation of allotments appeared, which, in turn, ensued numerous complaints. The system had to be reformed and as a result, the Zemstvo (Self-Government Authority) reform was carried out, that is, class-elected self-government was introduced, which for those times was impossible even to imagine. Thus, free men, such as townspeople, state peasants, merchants etc. began to choose their own local authorities in towns and provinces. The elected leaders were called differently from place to place: somewhere starosta, or headman, somewhere tselovalnik (kisser), for he kissed the cross, swearing he would judge fairly and honestly These heads of local governments had to directly collect taxes and duties from the people and deliver to the capital. The introduction of local self-government has led to an increase in treasury revenues. But the main reform of the young Ivan the Terrible was the reform of the army. By that time, the principle of the noble militia, or noble cavalry, had already been fully established under Ivan III, but Ivan the Terrible went on to regulate this system. In his youth, he was generally a very systemic person. At the same time, in 1556, when Ivan the Terrible was 26, the Code of Service was adopted, which now would be called the Law on Universal Military Service. This document regulated the procedure for military service of the noble cavalry. Sons of boyars, who were owners of a patrimony or estate, when summoned, had to show &quot;in number, on horseback, and armed&quot;. We understand that &quot;on horseback, and armed&quot; means on a war horse and in full combat gear, but what did &quot;in number&quot; mean? This meant with mounted armed combat serfs; and if he brought fewer people with him than was required by the Code, he was penalised with a fine, but if he brought more people than was required, he received a rationed food and money allowance. The Code also stipulated the term of service. Here we are now arguing about the existing terms of conscription, from 18 to 28, but in the time of Ivan the Terrible, for your understanding, the service life of any landowner was from 15 years old to the death, for those were nobles that had been granted with land possessions specifically in return for their military service. Usually, a nobleman was given at least 150 acres of land, and since the yield was low, 4-5 peasant families were enough to cultivate this area, i.e. to maintain one cavalry warrior. However, the problem was this: cavalry was fine, but it was already the era of firearms, and it was inconvenient to shoot from atop a horse with a bulky weapon. And that's when Ivan the Terrible came up with a new army, and it was his personal innovation - the Streltsy (fusiliers) army. In 1550, new-type soldiers were selected out of Moscow citizens, at first 3 000, who were given land within city limits, money to build a house and a salary of four rubles a year, or 33 kopecks a month. Mind you, it was not a lot of money; for comparison, a handyman in the city usually earned one kopeck (penny) a day, and the prices were as follows: a chicken cost one kopeck, a horse could cost anything from one ruble and above, and a real war horse could cost as much as 15 rubles, and sometimes 20. Well, a good warhorse was for those times like a Maybach car is now. And what makes me sigh for the good old days is the price of black caviar back then - one penny per kilogramme. What else was attractive about serving in the ranks of the Streltsy? Full tax exemption, the right to engage in any crafts and any trade duty-free. Since there was a lot of spare time in between wars and military training, a soldier could open a shop and trade or craft something. Streltsy were armed with arquebuses, sabers, swords, just like musketeers, or berdyshy, poleaxes with a curved blade, which was a scary weapon in hand-to-hand combat. In general, Streltsy looked like Musketeers in many ways, but if the attribute of a musketeer was a wide-brimmed hat, an arquebus - a rifle with a matchlock, and a sword, then a strelets was equipped with a poleaxe, a saber and the same arquebus, but wore a fur-trimmed hat. Indeed, Streltsy's military kit was beautiful and unique. Ivan the Terrible introduced a uniform military outfit: a hat, caftan, boots and trousers of uniform cut, but in different colours, so, the kit could be not only red with gold embroidery, but also brown, green, blue or yellow, that is, each Streltsy regiment had a uniform of its own distinctive colour. This uniform was well visible from afar, and it was convenient to distinguish which regiment occupied which position, as well as it being undoubtedly beautiful. By the way, the French Musketeers, poor chaps, had nothing like that and the identical blue cloaks were in fact a figment of the cinematographers' imagination. A strelets was a universal warrior, perhaps even more universal than a musketeer, since he was equally proficient with a saber, sword, dagger, pistol and arquebus, and also had to be able to shoot a cannon and throw a grenade, which was an iron or glass ball with a wick filled with gunpowder. Artillery was yet to become &quot;the god of war&quot; at that time, and it was Ivan III, the great grandfather of Ivan the Terrible, who began to use it systematically, but the latter developed it in every possible way. All related services, gunsmiths and craftsmen, production, spare parts, repairs and maintenance were brought together under the Cannon Prikaz, where also served engineers, who were engaged in undermining, digging of underground galleries and construction of assault towers. Service in this Prikaz was hard, dangerous and, frankly, not prestigious, for everyone wanted to be in the cavalry, therefore recruits were attracted only by high pay. Why was artillery not as effective then as it was at a later time? Because the guns exploded from frequent firing, if they were not cooled, and they were cooled with water mixed with vinegar. On average, a cannon fired one shot per hour until it cooled down, otherwise it could simply explode. At the same time, powder-bag propellant loading was invented, whereas a bag of gunpowder was stuffed into the muzzle of a cannon with such a pole and thus the process accelerated a little. You should remember how it goes in Lermontov's poem 'Borodino': &quot;I hammered the packload into the cannon tight ...&quot; - this technique was still applied right up to the 19th century. The famous Tsar Cannon, listed in the Guinness Book of World Records as a weapon of the largest caliber, did not shoot with cannonballs, because a cannonball of this size would either not fly out, or the cannon would burst, but with buckshot, although not iron, but stone. Stone buckshot was packed in bags and one charge weighed, attention, 800 kilogrammes. TATAR HERITAGE A few words should be said separately, of course, about the religious policy of the time of Ivan the Terrible, because without such a faith-tolerant policy we would not have had any growth and development of the country. Under Ivan the Terrible, our government emphatically adhered to the principle of respecting Islam. Today, it seems self-evident to us when on November 4th, National Unity Day, the Patriarch of Moscow and All Russia, the Supreme Mufti and representatives of other faiths come to the Kremlin and sit together at the same table, but it was absolutely unthinkable to imagine such a thing in the 15th century Europe. It was a time of merciless religious wars and the extermination of people only on the principle of different praying traditions and rituals, but Russia was an amazing island of religious tolerance. I quote a document from that time: &quot;We have many people living here who profess Islam, but we do not take away their faith.&quot; It is known that mosques were built not only in Kasimov, where they have been preserved to this day, but also in the cities where Tatars in Russian military service lived, including Moscow, I believe. But, basically, let's talk about Tatars and Russians in military service separately. It is my deep conviction that Tatars are the second state-forming ethnos in our country, especially considering that in those days all Muslims were called Tatars, and these were synonymous words. For all the time of the existence of the Moscow state, there has never been a case when serving Tatars at least once betrayed the oath to their Tsar. Kasimov, a small town in the Ryazan region, was granted to the Tatar Tsarevich Kasim in 1452. This is how the unique Kasimov Kingdom arose, which would last for more than two hundred years. After the fall of Kazan, its last ruler, Princess Syuyumbike, was exiled to Kasimov, and soon a descendant of the last Khan of the Great Horde, Akhmat, who was defeated on the Ugra River and converted to Orthodoxy under the name Simeon, ascended the Kasimov throne. And so, in 1575, when Ivan the Terrible was 45 years old, by those standards already an elderly man, he named this Kasimov Prince Grand Duke of All Russia and crowned him in the Assumption Cathedral of the Kremlin according to all proper traditions. This Prince became known in history as Simeon Bekbulatovich and his reign lasted one year. A year later, Ivan the Terrible, having taken a break from royal affairs, changed back positions with him and again resumed the Moscow throne, and with all due gratitude at that. Simeon Bekbulatovich, who reigned in his place for a year, was not only not executed, but Ivan the Terrible rewarded him by making him ruler in the most prestigious Tver Principality. What was this year-long vacation? Was it some kind of game that Ivan the Terrible played with himself or what? I don't know. A kind of downshifting of the 16th century. That's how Ivan the Terrible was, a great entertainer and a master of unexpected moves. Why would the Tsar, even if he wanted to retire from office for a while, formally appoint another man in his place, while risking everything at that, absolutely everything? It is not clear at all... A Tatar who converted to Orthodoxy, as a rule, organically assimilated, and Tatars actually became founders of many a noble family. Beklemishevs, for instance, and Tatar roots cannot fail be identified, because 'Bek' means Prince in Turkic. Or, most Russian of Russians, Stroganov merchants - their family descended from a Tatar who came to Russia as far back as the time of Dmitry Donskoy. Or, Russian to the bone, Sheremetevs - they have Turkic-Bulgarian roots and 'sheremet' means an unlucky man in Turkic. My favourite of Pushkin's works is 'Boris Godunov', about whom he wrote the following lines: &quot;Yesterday's slave, a Tatar, Malyuta's son-in-law, the executioner's son-in-law and the executioner himself at heart.&quot; In fact, Tsar Boris Godunov himself was a Tatar descendant. It is to the Tatars that the following genera owe their origin: Baturins, and 'batyr' means hero; Bibikovs, for 'bibik' means chief; Almazovs - their surname has nothing to do with precious stones (means diamond in Russian), but Almazy is just a Turkic name; General Ermolov, the 'Conqueror of the Caucasus', whose ancestor was Arslan-murza; of the Tatar murzas, which means ruler, also leads his provenance a hero of the 1812 War, Denis Davydov; a descendant of another murza, Arslan Turgen, 'arslan' is lion in Turkic, became the writer Ivan Turgenev; the 'Singer of the Third Rome', poet Fyodor Tyutchev, is a descendant of the Tatar Tyutshi; our main historian Nikolai Karamzin comes from the glorious warrior Kara-Murza, or the Black Prince; our main Westerner, Peter Chaadaev, is a descendant of the Tatar Chagatai; as well as our main Slavophile, Sergei Aksakov, has Tatar roots, for 'aksak' means lame in Turkic; writer Mikhail Bulgakov - his ancestors, apparently, were prominent and stately, because 'bulgak' means important; the most Russian composer, Miliy Balakirev, derives from the Tatar Bala-kire, in Turkic it means stubborn child; Sergei Rachmaninov, of course, is a descendant of the Tatar Rahman; the leader of the Cadet party, Minister Milyukov, is a distorted Tatar surname Melikov, and Melik means tsar; his contemporary and our great scientist, Timiryazev, is a descendant of Bek, or Prince, Temir Gazi, which means iron warrior. I can endlessly list the cases of Tatar, or Turkic, roots in Russian surnames, here are some more of them: the Alyabyevs, Anichkovs, Akhmatovs, Berdyaevs, Bunins, Bukharins, Gorchakovs, Dashkovs, Izmailovs, Kurbatovs, Naryshkins, Ogarevs, Radishchevs, Rostopchins and many, many others. However, one aspect should be borne in mind, here, that those who found Tatar roots in their surname always tried to come up with stories of their provenance not from ordinary Tatars, but certainly from Murzas or Beks, which implied greater prestige. After all, since there were very few Rurikovichi, but those people really wanted to trace their origin back to some royal family, so, they searched for a Tatar among their ancestors and announced that he had been preferably a Murza and a Genghisid at the same time. ST. BASIL'S CATHEDRAL In honour of an early October church Feast of the Intercession of the Holy Virgin, and on the eve of the capture of Kazan, a grand cathedral was completed on Red Square named the Intercession of the Virgin on the Moat. It was named 'Intercession of the Virgin' in honour of the capture of Kazan on the eve of this holiday, and 'on the Moat' because a moat had been dug between the Neglinnaya River and the Moskva River, I refer you to our conversation about the Kremlin. The moat ran parallel to the Kremlin wall between the cathedral, which we now usually call St. Basil's Cathedral, and the Alexander Garden, where the Neglinka flowed. There was a bridge over the moat and when it was lifted, our triangular Kremlin, an impregnable citadel, turned into an island. Later, God's fool, Basil the Blessed, was buried in one of the side chapels of the cathedral, and, thus, the cathedral acquired its second, popular and unofficial name. In those days, God's fools were a common sight in Moscow. For some, it was a profession, a business; there was even a gang posing as God's fools, where they centrally assigned who was begging in which area and next to which church. Basil the Blessed himself was a special person, a shoemaker by profession. History has preserved the legend that one of the noble Muscovites came to him and ordered new boots to be made. He was very pleased with the soft leather boots produced by Vasily, and, paying, praised him for good work, saying that now he would probably wear them for the next 20 years. But Vasily smiled sadly, shrugged his shoulders and said, &quot;No, boyar, don't be offended, but you won't be wearing them for even one full day&quot;. The boyar grunted, swore, and by the evening of the next day he was arrested, accused of something and executed. So, Vasily could see the future. Ivan the Terrible reverently paid attention to the words of Basil the Blessed and, they say, even consulted with him on some issues. When the cathedral was built, everyone was impressed by its very unusual design, whereas instead of a single building there were eight separate churches, grouped around the ninth, central one. Its design was filled with deep meaning - each of the side chapels was dedicated to separate church holidays that fell on the days of the decisive battles for Kazan. Then two more extensions were added, a bell tower and a separate church where St. Basil was buried, that is, the cathedral consists of eleven separate, but connected buildings. History scientists still cannot agree on who actually built the cathedral. Was it really built by the architects Barma and Postnik? Who were they? Were they two different people, or was it one Ivan Barma, nicknamed Postnik, or the Faster, for his commitment to strict church fasting? Others claim that it was a Pskov master, Postnik Yakovlev, where Postnik is the first name, nicknamed Barma. There is a version that the cathedral was built by a native of Muslim countries, because it is very unusual architecture, completely alien to classical Russian. I exceptionally like the story told by one amazingly intelligent and deep person who knows history well and who says that, apparently, there were actually two architects or, more precisely, one of them came up with the concept and maybe even sketched it out. That is, he gave the idea of how the cathedral should look, and the other man, being a builder, physically implemented this idea in its construction. So, the builder was indeed a Pskov master, and the author of the project was allegedly, the young Tsar himself, Ivan the Terrible, because only he could've come up with a design so unusual and, moreover, build it in violation of all the canons that existed then. And only the Tsar, then still a young Tsar, could have deigned to realise such a daring project. RESULTS OF IVAN THE TERRIBLE'S REIGN Well, let's summarize how much our country has grown under Ivan the Terrible, because this is our main topic. Let me remind you that there were no border demarcation posts and border garrisons at that time. Nevertheless, an approximate estimate is that the territory of the Russian state has doubled. The following Tatar lands were included in Russia: the huge Kazan Khanate and the Astrakhan Khanate, whose last Khan converted to Orthodoxy and became Ivan the Terrible's faithful ally. In the same years, the Bashkirs, who had previously been vassals of Kazan, voluntarily joined the Moscow state. Besides, the following peoples also came under the rule of Moscow along with their lands: Mordvins, partially under Ivan the Terrible; Udmurts, again partially earlier on along with Vyatka land, and partly after the annexation of Kazan; Chuvashi and Siberian Tatars, together with the Siberian Khanate conquered by Ermak, as well as Khanty and Mansi. I repeat, all the above territories had no borders, but roughly those were modern Tatarstan, Bashkiria, Mari El and Chuvashia; Saratov, Samara, Astrakhan, Volgograd, and Tyumen regions; Mordovia, Udmurtia, all of Perm region, partially Kurgan and Chelyabinsk regions and part of Kazakhstan. Beyond Astrakhan, lay the Nogai Horde, between the Volga and the Yaik (Ural) River - there were no cities in these lands and the only known city was Saraychik. Usually, on school maps, the territory of the Nogai Horde, this vast steppe zone, is also classified as the territorial acquisitions of Ivan the Terrible, although this is a slight stretch, since the Khan of the Nogai Horde indeed recognized himself as a vassal of Ivan the Terrible, but, technically, did not become his subject, and these are different categories. But, in any case, already under the son of Ivan the Terrible, Russian fortresses began to be laid along the Volga - Samara, Tsaritsyn, Saratov - which were built at the river crossings in order to fend off Nogai raids and, most importantly, to definitively indicate the fact that from that moment the Volga became a Russian river, precisely from the moment of Ivan the Terrible's reign. Within a few years upon Ivan the Terrible's death, his son, Fyodor Ioannovich, would personally lead his army to the Baltic States and return our ancestral lands, and thus, restore the status quo. So, after all, we can say that we have finished off the Livonian war as it should have been. The interests of the state, of the people, of the economy and of the Russian civilisation that was developing then existed regardless of the will of the Tsars, because they have always existed. If Ivan the Terrible could not do it, then his son did, and then we lost these lands in the Time of Troubles, but Peter I would return them later anyway, because national interests prevail over any personal ambitions. The only issue left unresolved by Ivan the Terrible, the Western one, would still be resolved in the end by Peter the Great. However, we shall talk about this some time later. Thank you for your love of Russian history, for your attention and patience. I wish you all the best and see you next time. HISTORY FACULTY