This video has been sponsored For a long time now, Maybe surprisingly, though, I'm not talking about the drug and I actually just mean the salt to make a relaxing bath. At least here in Montreal, and this is specifically In stores, they sell it and it's usually However, what has always blown my mind a huge portion of it is actually water. In fact, it's not even and it's technically mostly water All this water, though, like a sponge or something, This is why the proper chemical name is magnesium sulfate heptahydrate, where hydrate is referring to water. The core compound is magnesium sulfate, but it has seven water molecules In this form, the water and it's part What I've always found is that this water is only loosely bound. With just a bit of heating, and the water should fall off. Also, as I mentioned before, From this 4-kilo container, there's at least, in theory, That's almost enough To me, this all made sense on paper, and the science behind it However, I still had that there could actually be so I decided that I had to try it myself, and to see if I got To make this happen, the plan that I came up with I first had to heat up the Epsom salt and then I had to distill off the water To get this whole thing started, and I filled it At most, though, it would probably and I figured that to do all of it, When it looked pretty full, I took it off the stand and I dropped it After that, I added a stopper, and another stopper. I also had to add a thermometer, as well as the tubing that would be The last thing that I still needed and I just went with a 1 liter beaker. Now, in theory, I was good to go. I turned on the heating. At first, it didn't really seem and that's because there really wasn't. The water was only supposed and it was going to take a while After about 10 minutes, I noticed which told me What was much more exciting, though, that had condensed It wasn't anything even close to 2 liters, Over another 10 minutes, and there was This was how I thought it was and I figured that the salt and slowly giving off water. However, barely a few minutes later, a small hole opened up in the corner Apparently, there was There was actually a huge pool After this, it only took about 5 minutes At this point, I don't know exactly but I think it had given off Now, instead of being it was probably the di- or the monohydrate After seeing this, and I really started to believe was actually going to be possible. Around the same time, the water vapor and it eventually made it This was turning all the vapor and a small amount was building up. When there was eventually enough, it was able to make it and I got my first drop It was also coming over and within 10 minutes, Now, going back to the flask, and it was all fully boiling now. It also looked which gave me an idea. My original plan was to keep heating it and then to process the rest of the salt However, I started thinking to just keep topping up what I had here I pulled off the stopper, and started pouring in I filled it up with what I felt and I sealed it again. I then waited for it all to heat up It all eventually completely liquefied, and about 10 minutes after that, From this little test run, it definitely seemed that adding more I wanted to maximize the space and I decided to wait I patiently waited, and it ended up I also kept collecting the water, and it was slowly adding up When it eventually started slowing down, it was already Looking back at the salt, but I didn't see any actual liquid water. I then popped out the stopper again, and this time, However, I overestimated things I tried jamming it in, and for a second, I was worried But then I realized that all I had to do was wait for the stuff in the flask After that, I was easily able and there was still so I decided to just keep adding more. I forced in as much as I could, and when it was completely full again, Even after this, it was still and it definitely seemed It took a bit of effort and like five minutes but I was eventually able I then waited for it all to melt again, shoved in everything and dropped in the stopper. A few minutes later, I let this beaker fill and then I swapped it out for a new one. At this point, I had 1 liter and I assumed that it would take to get the other liter. Like before, the amount of water and I collected more and more It seemed to be going and after around five hours, it looked like all the water This time though, over in the beaker, and it wasn't even close I think this is because the last bit I imagine that most of the stuff here and this had a much stronger bond To break it apart, it was going to take and unfortunately, Right now, it was at around 250degC, and I tried pushing it Over the next two hours, I was able to squeeze out but it was insanely slow. It was also getting really late, I could leave it overnight but I was worried about leaving On the other hand though, that if I turned it off now This is because in general, when you have to cool down a flask When I started this, I knew that the flask would die, However, I only wanted it to die and there was still a whole bunch Ultimately, I decided and to take my chances I took away the beaker It all initially seemed okay, but as I was getting ready to leave, I ran over and checked on it, That was sadly not the case though, and there was a huge crack I wanted to take it all apart but it was still way too hot to touch, The next day, I took out all the pieces I was expecting it to be tough but I was hoping However, what I had here Now, at this point, I could keep going and get out the rest I honestly did just want to quit, To do this, I had to move into a new and unbroken flask. The first step This left me with a solid brick which I now had to crush into a powder. To do this, I figured I'd start and letting it break itself. If anything, it sounded like my table It was apparently even stronger I was going to have to use I expected one hit to easily split it, This was because it meant was going to be Even the sharp end of the hammer and it still took It really felt like I was trying and I had no idea how I was going Doing it manually like this seemed and I decided to try and automate it. I went online, that said an electric food grinder I, of course, didn't actually have chalk, but I felt that it was similar enough In my mind, I was hoping that it would At first, it actually seemed but it quickly stopped The magnesium sulfate and it had already dulled out the blade. Just for the fun of it, I swapped the blade out for a fresh one, It caught an edge, and part of it snapped. This was unfortunate, but to be fair, I have no idea It was way too ambitious using something that's meant I was going to have to use something and a blender was the only other thing I was too afraid to use and I got this one on sale for $20. Unlike before, it actually seemed to work, However, it wasn't very efficient, and it was mostly I then tried it with just one piece, It didn't have the power to break it, and it was just slowly This was really inefficient, and it would take forever assuming the blender would even survive. Unfortunately, the power tools and it was looking like I was going I definitely wasn't going back and I instead used this pipe I dropped in one of the pieces and then I smashed it with a smaller pipe. This is a method and it seemed to work pretty well. There were still some chunks left in it, In this dry, powdered form, the magnesium sulfate really likes so it was important After that, I continued At first, it seemed like but it was honestly a nightmare. I spent the next five hours It was also a bit messy, and it was impossible When I was eventually done, there were still some pieces so I put everything through the blender, which actually worked This left me with a decent and it really didn't look Again, in theory though, but I had that same doubtful feeling But either way, I now had to do that I did before. The only difference was that this time, I was going to crank and bring it to around 400degC. When it got to around 350, I started to see some water vapor Shortly after that, The rate was much slower than before, It was looking like that last bit and I was really hoping that I'd be able Of course, this decent rate and it really started to slow down. To squeeze out the last bit, I was going to have to insulate it and wait for it to get to 400degC. It actually started but it had a slight murkiness to it, It also had a really strong sulfur smell, and it made the room smell At first, I thought that it might breaking down under the high heat. However, I don't actually think because magnesium sulfate I think it was and maybe some other impurities When it got to around 100 milliliters, I was really hoping to get which was about 394 milliliters, I ended up quitting which took almost 10 hours. After this, I slowly ramped down and I kept the flask covered. I was hoping that this would reduce and prevent it from cracking. I came back to it a few hours later, I then took everything apart, and I emptied out It was still not completely water free, Now, coming back to the water I was actually able to get quite a bit. However, it was also way nastier so I decided to try and clean it up. I initially planned to just pour it but I didn't think Instead, I made my own To do this, I filled a funnel that I got from the pet store. I then poured and it looked just as bad However, I wasn't surprised by this, and the charcoal was mostly One pass wouldn't work though, so I swapped it with a clean beaker I then did this three more times, and it got rid of most of the smell, After that, I tested the pH, which wasn't good. I set up another filter using something This can sometimes also be found because it can be used Along with the charcoal, this is the other main part and it pulls out dissolved ions. From just the first pass, I also repeated it three times, and it looked Now, when I tested the pH, which was very close to neutral. The water now also had almost no smell, and it was definitely In the end, this was all the water Even though I believe the science the amount was somehow still surprising. In total, I was able to get which wasn't quite the theoretical 2,067, I'm assuming was still just stuck in the salt. Now, to really get an idea I had to pour it all back As I thought from the beginning, it was enough water to fill which is crazy. But anyway, I now had and I just had to know Okay, it's unfortunately time to taste it, and see how horrible it probably is. The first thing I'll do is smell it. It doesn't smell very good. It smells like a weak version that I just cleaned up. It's not horrible. I guess I'll just taste it now. It just tastes like bad tap water. But I'm not sure why. The first taste was much better The second one was a bit sour. It makes me think everything from that nasty third run. It was still a bit acidic, But either way, I don't think The taste is horrible. But what I do find interesting where this water really came from. I mean, I know I took it but where the Epsom salt I originally assumed that it was probably that's used to make the Epsom salt, but what it seems to be more likely from a natural source, and it probably just picked it up I guess depending it could be really old water. Maybe this is ancient water. But either way, I've decided that I'll give away a few little small bottles If you guys want it, that you can sign up for, I mean, I don't know In the end, this project took and it was a disaster, One thing that I did was that this video wasn't meant to show I mean, it might be, but as far as I know, there are actually some practical reasons The first is that the dehydrated form and it can generate enough heat It also doesn't dissolve very well, and it tends to clump up and form bricks, But either way, I now just want to thank for supporting this very important Audible is one of the biggest providers and they have a huge library They also offer a lot of other stuff, like Audible originals Over the years, I've been telling myself but I just somehow never With Audible, though, I can listen to them and I've actually been able A couple years ago, and it's still one of my favorites. Right now, though, I'm about halfway through Shoe Dog, and it's all about how The whole journey that he went through With all that being said, though, if you're interested in getting Audible's definitely the best place Right now, they're offering a free trial, which gives you access to Audible Originals, and access to daily news digests You can get started by going or by texting NILERED to 500500. But with all that being said... I don't know. That's it. As usual, a big thanks goes out Everyone who supports me at least 24 hours You'll also get access to all the older videos If you support me with $5 or more, you'll get your name