i am in the capital, this country Land of ice and fire. Land of volcanoes. The entire country is like an orchard, you can take a great photo everywhere. The island of active volcanoes. The black sand. It's the largest volcanic island on Earth... The land of fire, ice, and waterfalls. ...and the safest country in the world. This is Iceland. Ice and fire, Iceland. Don't forget to like the video so we can reach 15 million! Today we will try to find out if Iceland Taxis from the airport It cost us $130. We will stay here for 7 days It's the second most expensive country So is Iceland worth it? We have sheep, and if you hit one of those, We will start from the south, There are cars you can sleep in, and other cars you rent Look at this one. The first place we started from This country has a success story I will tell you about it in a moment. The airport is close to the capital and it looks like Copenhagen It went from one of the poorest countries But what has improved Iceland's situation? Education. This is one of the libraries. They say this city has more libraries Look how beautiful it is! Their motto is &quot;Making a nation.&quot; &quot;Making of a nation.&quot; Look at this city, it's wonderful! It's located on an island But it's not an ordinary island, forget about all the islands We are in one of the libraries. You will see beautiful libraries This is the only country They don't have McDonald's or an army. Iceland, midway between the old world Iceland, from a remote island isolated on the edge of the Arctic, where it was a poor island relying on fishing as a basic resource to a modern, rich country and an example to follow It moved from fishing to processing it, entered the world and focused on education transforming from the poorest countries The country of Iceland this morning The nation prides itself on having 100% It took advantage of its harsh environment to convert the thermal energy into electrical energy, so the country has turned without any carbon emissions. It has the cleanest air in the world, so much so that they pack it Icelandic air to breathe. It is sold as a souvenir. It's one of the safest Iceland is a country without an army, but it is a member of NATO and a candidate to become a member Its area is about 100,000 km with a population most of whom are concentrated Most of its area is covered It has many rivers, springs, and waterfalls, However, this country is one of the most expensive coming in second place after Switzerland. Here, you can leave and go to the store to shop. You went inside and left him? Yeah, it's fine, it's Iceland. Yes, this is a common thing We will start first from this waterfall. Waterfall. Okay, we've reached the first site. There are still more waterfalls, All the way from Taiwan. This waterfall is the closest You will see small waterfalls around it. The first waterfall. And now we will head You can see the second waterfall The second location. This street is full of waterfalls. Second location, guys. This was when it was cloudy. Then suddenly the sun came out and the colors changed You can climb up next to this waterfall Near the waterfall the most famous in the world. After visiting the waterfalls, and see amazing views and terrain You feel like you're in the crater but this is the ocean. Then we stayed at this hotel to continue our journey the next day. With the sunset you will see villages along the way It has almost one highway, and you will see everything On our way, We went further south until we reached another beach called... This is Diamond Beach guys. Look! ...the Diamond Beach. Here, there are a lot of icebergs You can make an iced latte with it. They are right here on the beach, Even though it's summer! This is the biggest one on the beach now. We headed further south. We slept in this hotel. The sun only sets for 3 hours in summer It's 3 a.m. now. This is the sunrise in Iceland. The sun is rising now. There is a Viking village The country is very well organized There are restaurants, On the way back, we stopped at this cafe. We stopped at a cafe on our way We didn't explore all of Iceland, we only went to the south It turns out that the island is big. You'd need to drive 4-5 hours So imagine if you Mountains. Let's continue the journey. From there we drove to the capital and on the way you can stop at this island and drive there and sleep It has the loneliest houses in the world. Many videos have been made about them and they have been given the title And this is the puffin. Before we go back to the airport, near the airport there is... Look, guys, the road is blocked. Why? Because very recently a volcano erupted here. You will see smoke rising because it could erupt at any moment. This is an active volcano. See that mountain? People climb it to take photos, Maybe it's not allowed to be here, man. The airport is 20 km away from here which is the capital. And in this direction, What is the Blue Lagoon? It's the largest The water temperature This lake is fed by a geothermal The Blue Lagoon. The water in this lake This color is because of the minerals This place is next to the airport. Imagine! The water is very hot. You get juice All right, everyone is doing it. I'm finally white. Yeah. I've got white privilege now. He's from Pakistan These cans are empty of course.