- This is Dom. He's a friendly little at only one thing, setting really, really fast. It's taken five years but according to our that he might be more than 10 times faster than the fastest human. So today we're gonna put him to the test, going head to head against the world's who unfortunately is a mere human. Then we're gonna attempt and he's gonna try and with a mural of a 100,000 dominoes. And for context, setting would take a team of seven Dom here is gonna attempt to Now I know what you're thinking, &quot;Big whoop, Mark,&quot; because as that looked like this or even this custom robot KiwiCo made me that can drop 20 dominoes in a row. So isn't it a bit overkill to a half mile of Hot wheels tracks, and a high speed robotic arm? And I get it because our where we're just trying when we first tried to tackle this problem exactly five years ago. But then pesky details with scale arise. Like for starters, just how much a hundred So the robot will need to come and reload at least a thousand times. But how exactly do you reload it? And how would it know exactly and what color it should be? And how do you make it so once in a hundred thousand A system to reliably tackle is just going to be Like 10 times more complex than my automatic bullseye dart board, which to this point was probably on my channel. So after failing off I was doing a Q and A at Maker Faire, and I told the crowd if with the brutal challenge And to my absolute delight, and a software engineer from the Bay Area all took me up on the challenge. So I hired them and two Now, before I show you how it all works, I first wanted to put him in to see how good he really was. And for that, we need the on YouTube for all things Lily, you are known on YouTube as the Queen of Dominoes, right? - People do call me the Domino Queen. - And for very good reason, on her channel, you've of her incredible on the platform. She's so good she's even got her own line of dominoes you can buy in stores. Okay, so here's the challenge, Lily, I want you to set up like and let's see how long it - Okay. Clock starts now. - I gotta do two hands. - If you need me, Lily, I'm just sitting here For you kids at home, a newspaper is like a (upbeat music) (laughing) That's actually pretty fast. - Oh no! - Oh a disaster! The foibles of being a human! Okay, Lily, are you ready for this? - No! (blowing air through fingers) I actually dunno how to whistle. This is The Dominator! - Oh my God, wow! I love the eyes. - A good set of googly Okay, boy, let them down. I suck at dominoes Lily, Which means I'm actually We even showed off! The Dominator double stacked - That is impressive! That is seriously impressive. - This technique of laying at once was really the key and reliability issues. And it's probably my favorite besides his wiggly tail, of course. Here's Josh to explain more. - So we have these 3D printed funnels here which allow us to drop all - And the mechanism that of this tray, we'll show - And if we remove these funnels here, we can see that the dominoes in their locations. This allows us to place where we want them all at once. - And they don't fall out the Connect Four mechanism under here. But if we trigger the servo, then it slides that Connect Four tray over and drops them all at once, making for some gratuitous, (upbeat music) And so while this looks really cool, obviously dropping from that So we lower the whole platform then set them right on the floor, which turned out to be So Dom took the W in round one, but now it's time for the endurance round. Okay, first one to 10,000, dominoes wins. Lily, you ready? - Dominator, you ready? Start! - Oh my God. Wow, I already failed. - That's great. And to Lily's credit, she Just not, you know, robot fast. - So unfair. So unfair! - On top of that, she had to with the emotional maturity Yep, I think I'm doing pretty good. (upbeat music) You're doing very good for Oh, no! (laughing) (upbeat music) No what? No what, Lily? Nope, get out, get out! (Mark yelling) - That feels so much faster How's Lily doing? - Tired! - [Mark] And so while Lily's output slowed down considerably, Dom's did not. And I should mention we but that's just short which as noted before is Dominator. 'Cause you know, like domino, dominator. Whatever, it all works. - I'm gonna head to the bathroom. - Oh, Lily has to go to the bathroom. - I'm human, right? Dominator, do you have Didn't think so. 9,000 perfectly laid dominoes in a little over two We got a bonus domino out there May or may not have been on purpose but now we can say it's It was a pretty clear result. And Lilly, of course, was to the machine overlords. So all that was left to do (dominoes clinking) Yes, that was satisfying! So we went head to head with the world's foremost domino And now it's time for the real challenge to attempt a Guinness World Record and see how quickly we with a mural of over a 100,000 dominoes. All right, buddy, you got the game plan now you just gotta get Godspeed, little fella, godspeed. (whimsical music) 300 dominoes down a Enchante - So we're about six hours we just got our first Goomba. This is beautiful! Back to work Dom. And the best part about working is that the last 24 (upbeat music) And with that tile placed we with over 50,000 dominoes put down in just a little bit over 12 hours. And Dom, whoa, easy boy, just showing no signs of slowing down. So this is a good point of the robotic system. It all starts over here that Josh and John-Luke spend The dominoes are loaded by and then a KUKA robot arm grabs them and places them in one of from 2.7 miles worth of hot wheel tracks. And you could load Dom but this is much faster because He just comes in here and the lower platform slides of 300 dominoes gets And we also had a backup in case at any point the Besides the Hot Wheels tracks, there's a ton of 3D printed that we either printed ourselves my friends at MatterHackers helped us out. So that's the loader. Now how about The Dominator himself? How does Dom know exactly where to go in the room to drop a domino? - So we've pre-programmed the so the robot knows exactly where Then as we're driving around, we use these indoor GPS of the robot so it knows And then as we get closer to the place the dominoes need to drop, we use these IR cameras on the ground to make sure the robot lines up perfectly every single time. - So the vision from the beginning is that we could set Dom up, and leave and come back the next morning, and you've got like a full - He could work all night - All right, now how about - So these are called omni because they let you translate So this is way better than like your car, where if you need to move a you have to make like a five point turn. So with these guys, you can to adjust for small of the dominoes. These wheels are powered by DC servo motors. These are like the gold standard in terms of speed and accuracy, and they allow us to by even just a couple which is super useful real fine adjustments for - Now obviously that's of the iceberg tip, but Dom's of code all from scratch. So if you wanna go way deeper I'll put a link in the video description where Alex put it all in one spot. Now back to finishing the second half. (upbeat music) Enchante So The Dominator has been and this is a bit of It's-a me, Mario! (upbeat music) 102,300 dominoes are on This is the last 300. I think this is a moment, Josh and Alex, let's observe it. Don't blow this Dom. You got it buddy, finish strong. (dominoes clinking) We got it! Just over 24 hours to lay So now with everything set up the final critical step You can see John loading because they were gonna The way that works is we've to the bottom of this platform that rides in these Then you slap a green sliding shell on top and a motor at the end pulls with a string. Then the shell contacts the lever arm at each pipe like this, which down the ramp, hopefully Okay, now I'm nervous. I wasn't nervous. Now I'm nervous. Okay, 3, 2, 1, go. (motor whirring) Yes, yes! Three! Four! Five! - Oh my gosh! (Dom beeping happily) (build team cheering) - Yes! - Holy cow! - Oh my gosh! And in the end, Dom was 50 times faster than a skilled domino builder, and he got himself a world Although, to be fair to us organisms, it was in the non-human category. And at that point, after five years we were just so relieved to be done. We got a little carried with an appropriate sendoff. (upbeat music) What do we do now? - Build a robot to clean it up. - Ah, there we go! A cleanup robot.