Otto von Bismarck, the man who oversaw the called politics "the art of the possible". He's but you have to go with what's actually possible in life, including car design. There's always a That was never more true than with the Citroen the mid-1970s it was a modern car with all its innovative features. But just how did they This is the Citroen Visa story. [music] The Citroen 2CV could only be seen as very successful. Conceived before the Second World War, trying to rebuild; it was cheap and reliable but by 1970 it was also very out of date. Citroen was also the Ami that had launched in 1961. This but clearly Citroen needed something new Robert Opron had investigated a new This image came from a couple of years earlier but four years later the Bureau d'Etudes built a sense of the car Robert was trying to create. due to Citroen's finances, which weren't great. So By this time Citroen's new small car project had of building small cars, Citroen's Project Y the 127 as possible, including the chassis. had to be completely reworked, but there was their new Wankel rotary engine would save sending the company into bankruptcy. There that would make Fiat a majority shareholder, but After a protracted period where Citroen was in a shotgun wedding with rival Peugeot, causing the partner agreed that Citroen was in desperate work converting the existing Fiat-based small car The project was named Voiture Diminuee or "small "Project VD"! Brits had fun telling Citroen's At the time of the PSA deal Citroen were keen to they weren't going to become just a Peugeot new car, the Citroen LN broke cover, it Peugeot 104 Coupe, including the chassis. produced this car at all. It launched in 1976 To be fair, the Citroen Peugeot agreement had looked so work had been ongoing since then. But it financial problems that had meant been let go or fled to other car companies. venerable 2CV engine, now producing 600cc and Peugeot 104 suspension had been softened to make dashboard and interior with split folding rear In one fell swoop Citroen had fixed their desirable, and the company could be forgiven stay independent. The LN allowed them to pay And those Citroen workers were kept busy, The LN was a popular little runabout, selling 350 cars due to its smaller engine, but it was a great deal with high fuel prices certainly appreciated. The Citroen DS, when spoken with a for goddess - "deesse". LN sounded like "Helene", "Helena", and that's what the LN update would be this clever wordplay was wasted on most car buyers get them from point A to point B, and the new LNA 650cc engine that was still very efficient. but they weren't replacements for too small compared to the 2CV, Dyane or Ami. the longer 5 door version of the Peugeot 104? To stretched a little to accommodate 5 doors. there were real changes in the new car that the dashboard that showed Citroen hadn't lost to find a better way to drive. The controls The module, an evolution of the Citroen CX's for rain, or pluie, road, or route and night or the essential buttons without having to take your single spoke affair that made it easy to see controls that were linked to good sized vents. It useful, that the side vents could deliver outside All of this was mounted to a black plastic something with a funky 70s pattern. linked to just one front wiper that did its best cutting measure. Money was instead spent on modern billed as the most advanced of any car. and reviewers saw the benefits, but the potential drivers may have got put off by The Visa used the same 650cc engine as the LNA, engine from the Peugeot 104 that took the 0-60 and boost the top speed to just shy of 90mph exclusive Vesuvius brown that might have probably wouldn't get very excited about. 1.1L Peugeot 4 cylinder was only 4 years old the ancient 2CV, and it felt it. The Peugeot other modern engines to save space, but Citroen's and I'm not sure there's any other car that had But then if it wasn't quirky it wouldn't be a Citroen! steering packages, and both were a little heavy familiar - it was a carry over from the Citroen said it put many mid-range saloons to shame. and it featured large bumpers like the 6 pleased Citroen's designers though. They'd been the Peugeot 104, but the Citroen Visa got much a failure for a company that had produced The Visa replaced two aging cars in Citroen's Dyane continued on sale for another 5 years. After why stop given Citroen had money problems? and its international name signalled Citroen's appearing on British roads with right hand drive. early 70s Citroen had been working on its own complete it by 1976, but the Peugeot merger had so they decided to use the Peugeot 104 abandoned, so in 1976 when the Romanian Government out Project Y as something that they could company and launched the Oltcit Club in 1981. The Romanian Government couldn't repay the money attempted to recoup some of that by importing the where it went head to head with Citroen's own LNA. original small car vision, with a much better drag the PRN Satellite control system. But with low Another car that wasn't selling well was the compared to 212,000 Renault 5's - a car of Renault's hatchback jumped to 300,000 a year but their designers were busy finalising farmed out to coachbuilder Heuliez. a few key changes that vastly improved the ironically made it look like a modern Peugeot. There were rubbing strips down the side more defined look. The reversing lights were into the light clusters - a much more logical and less likely to be damaged in a low speed shunt. Peugeot 104, with the option of a 5-speed gearbox and 96 mph (154 km/h) on the open road. leapt with 179,000 cars produced in 1981. And the Visa rallying - after all the Renault 5 Turbo for motorsport conversions. One taker was Lotus It was an interesting idea, but Citroen wheel drive. That was considered essential after While they waited for that car to be produced, a homologation special to the public, so the interesting was the limited edition Visa Chrono in 10.2 seconds, and finally took the car over dashboard, bucket seats, and a rear spoiler. edition car with a name that spoke less about GT arrived in 1983 with a clear sporting name. It but it still got to 60 in under 11 seconds hatch drivers, people like me if I'd been a bit rear spoiler and alloy wheels to set it apart. the option of a sunroof. The split fold an attractive all round package. There was also an instrument cluster similar to the Chrono. which meant another homologation special All wheel drive was allied to a 110hp (82 kW) New models were coming thick and fast. That "Decapotable" or "Convertible", again It provided open air summer fun, but the extra The Visa had supplanted both the Ami and the and Citroen wanted to do the same for the Acadiane. They'd tried a halfway house It looked like a regular Visa, but the rear Citroen made a "proper" replacement in 1984 power of a diesel engine, so Citroen slotted in meant reconfiguring the suspension and steering, plastic wheel arch panels to hide the change. used the beefier rear axle from the Peugeot 305 replaced with something more conventional, The C15 would go on sale in the UK the The diesel engine also came to the Visa passenger versatile. And Citroen wasn't finished making produced the popular 205 GTi, so why not cash a Citroen? And so, the Visa GTi was borne to 60 in 9 seconds. Like the diesel, this the C15's black plastic wheel arches were once sporty drama. The GTi also borrowed the stalks What's more, it was a cool 15% cheaper than over PS1,000 ($1,340 USD, EUR1,236, $1,986 AUD) advantages. First, it looked better, to my eye at which meant it was a touch slower. And the had a much newer chassis. That platform was sill and too much of the boot space was taken up Visa GTi was vastly outsold by Peugeot's GTi. But lot more poise and panache than the original Visa. and there was the option of electric windows and to its expiry date. It still offered the 2CV's truly great fuel economy. The Visa bowed out in Citroen with another warmed over Peugeot. The It had been launched a couple of years earlier as would now do double duty in 1988 as a 5-door. production. It had served its purpose as and the basis for a car that had helped This wouldn't quite be the end for the Visa go on to be produced until 2006. And also, engineers imported a Visa to China in 1987, and a blatant copy, showing it as the Wuling LZW engine - a Chinese built Daihatsu 3-cylinder. next three years build a few hundred cars. themselves out of bankruptcy and rebuilding ended production, Citroen were on a much firmer soon to be replaced by the XM. All of this was car that could. It might not be the sexiest car the job for many customers, both as an ultra or as a full blooded racer as the GTi. And that If you want to see what was happening on the other Renault 5 and the Peugeot 205 on the right. Thanks