The word supercar has never really meant anything It's closer to an emotion than any kind of specific word, And in the late 1980s, Supercar Ferrari and Lamborghini Testarossa. 328 Countach even the Jalpa Sure. The Countach was a neck breaker. It looked like nothing else, Its windows didn't open. You couldn't see out of it. And as an owner, miles by name What I'm saying is they never ran Their 328 took muscle and clenched teeth No power steering, weird pedal placement. It wasn't a car you drove every day existence up until 1990 were fast first, stylish second, and reliable... Well let's just say That all changed in 1990 when the smallest, cutest, Absolutely broke A new standard of performance cars reliable, practical, affordable, all while being fast enough to leave A car that let every Italian manufacturer they were uninspired, The word itself had a new meaning. This was the NSX, the Japanese sports car that broke supercars rewind. Its 1983 Honda back then was just a plucky little economy CR-X, Prelude, civic, front wheel drive cars meant to be as reliable, while still being just fun enough But behind the boring city of dedicated racing engineers conquering They had an engine that won in 81 They just needed a car to show the world But what the hell does Mid-engined Supercars? Well, nothing really. They hadn't even made a proper sports They had no experience making midship cars without even an inkling Or at least assume it's late at night. And supported by a few cans of Sapporo. Honda engineers started tinkering Up till now, they only made front engined so they took a Honda City... Yes, Honda City, and slapped an engine in the back and The engineers were immediately blown away. The handling of this weird Frankenstein dynamic and exciting. Honda's team were ecstatic. They had tasted what it was like Seriously, the NSX, you know and love owes everything to bored engineers It's pretty wild. Meanwhile, Honda Corporate was prepping They needed a Halo car, that they came to win, that this wasn't Honestly, 1980s They could have taken one of their cars got a team of engineers and released But they said, fook it. The clapped out We're building a freaking supercar. We don't want to beat Nissan. Forget BMW and Mercedes. We want to take down Ferrari. The Project Lead,Shigero Uehara that could outperform the Ferrari 328, Honda didn't make difficult cars. They made reliable, respectable cars, and the same should apply The Honda Supercar should be able and drive home in one piece. You should be able to park it Survive an accident in it. Should be an actual good car. What a revolutionary concept. But in the 1980s, Honda's vision of the NSX they were making history They set out to change the world Uehara and his team plotted out every competitive sports and vehicle weight and wheelbase all fit into sort of a band on the graph Then they plotted the current Formula There it stood way out there. They had their target. The NSX would push as close as it could to the Formula One And thus it would go beyond what every other sports car It would stand alone. now to create a car Honda needed to do what Look, if you know Honda, The American or Italian way. Just throw more horsepower or cylinders at it So they have to be clever, was not an easy one. They struggled to balance the team traveled back and forth in Japan on the bullet trains, There they were, riding back and forth, how to make the fastest car in Japan, which were made of aluminum. Up to this point, no one had made an all This was it, the secret ingredient to make a car The perfect balance their and more importantly, revolutionized the use of aluminum And this is where Honda almost drops You see, once and all the bits ironed out, Yeah. The original concept for the NSX engine in it, out of the accord. You make an entirely revolutionary new way launching a whole new luxury This is your Halo car So it's set to debut at the 1989 Chicago Tadashi Kume, gets ready to show the world There's already some other brand and Kume just fires up like a bad ass The crowd is stunned and intrigued at what Honda has behind the curtain, Revving up the NSX prototype, new revolutionary VTEC system, that VTEC is only planned He screams at them, you idiots! this is unacceptable! Or maybe he said something like that Kume forces the NSX team to develop And thank god he did was Honda's best yet a three liter dual The second Honda engine ever and the first time the American audience It was a revolution. It saved the NSX It propelled the NSX from to a full on world beating supercar. Featuring a variable volume induction system that gave the car It had titanium connecting rods. This allowed in manual transmission trim to propel it to 60 and under 6 seconds. Top speed over 160 miles per hour in development. Honda had its sights being the performance baseline It even hung with the 348 but they weren't done An engine breathing life into the car with their material Uehara and his team produced a prototype and with the help of one racing legend, The NSX prototype spent an entire month getting pushed to its absolute limits The famed Formula One legend, Ayrton Senna, was in Japan to test out a McLaren And look, he ain't no idiot when the guy who makes your racing and do a couple of laps You oblige. After a full month The engineers were confident they'd wow Senna eats a biscuit, drinks a coffee, scratches his head and tells them Engineers were stunned The NSX went back under the knife again 50% stiffer. Honda even employed a Cray supercomputer This was maximum effort from Honda. There were no corners cut, sharp supercar, all thanks to the legend Ayrton With the car properly an entirely new way of making a production It was time for the world to see what the Honda's $140 million project had paid off at around 60 grand The NSX broke sports Magazine Consumers elegant machine Ferrari and Captain Lamborghini Here was a car that beat them try for half the cost It was beautiful. It was fast it was drivable. It was reliable, and it was cheap. A supercar for reasonable people. A Ferrari for the guy A Lamborghini for people that say Yes. On paper, especially now, It's. It's it's cute. The V6, no turbos Kind of understated styling, but numbers It was a balanced, sharpened knife in the right hands. It was as deadly and as fast as anything or Lamborghini could even hope to achieve When you look at the NSX But that's because you're looking through the lens of every supercar The reliable drivable supercar At least the douchey, overpriced Lamborghinis now looks low class poorly Ferrari is now needed to be faster, If a Japanese company can come out car that costs half as much and performs Italy needed to wake the hell up in multiple reviews The Porsche 911 the lotus esprit and whatever else the world had to offer, It was such a revolution. It helped inspired The McLaren F1 Gordon Murray, the F1 designer, cites It was the benchmark that the world's Today, more than 30 years since its release, If you saw one on the road, but you might not even notice it And for its 15 years of production, You see, the Supercar giant stepped up the McLaren F1 The Lamborghini Diablo changed The Ferrari 355 the prancing horse as the defacto fast car and the NSX remained largely unchanged. It kind of faded from memory. So while today the NSX is all but dead. Let's not talk about that You have to imagine that in a few garages Ferrari's and Lamborghinis A stark reminder on their laurels. Thank you for watching. Consider subscribing. It's been fun making this.