- I like, oh, sorry, I'm talking y'all. Look, I love this panel. We are back with Chris Give it up (laughs) (Kelly claps) I'm a chatty Kathy today. All hour, we have had and playing with my band, y'all. So he's amazing. Obviously, Kristin is But we first met Jude when he was here with his dad, Isaiah. And for such a young kid, Just take a look. So Isaiah, Jude, he had In the beginning, right? - Yes, he was born a premature and he had heart surgery because of low oxygen levels and he had G-tube. It was first in his nose. He kept pulling it out, so they had to put it in his stomach. So he was feeding through his stomach for until he was eight years old. - Yes. - [Kelly] Wow. - Yes and he was later - Yeah. That's why we are so thankful to God for blessing him - [Kelly] Yeah. - Yeah, because it's been a tough road. - Jude, do you know what you Is it something involving with music? - Well, I wanna do music professionally. And I hope I can write songs. I'm getting closer. - I love that. Well, my music director, he is an incredible pianist for 20 years now. He literally can play I ask him all the time. And he plays on the show. We've written songs together, many songs that were like- - Number one on the radio. - So he's a great songwriter as well. - Wow! - So Jason is offered to mentor you to help develop your sound. So he's going to work with you to arrange music- - And help with your writing. - Of course, of course, of course. (audience cheers) - We are so honored to We love him. Not just for his drive, on his talent and awesome personality, but also because as part This is important and he is proof: An autism diagnosis doesn't It can actually push you forward. He's incredible. I know Jason agrees with this and that's why he was quick to get started with mentoring Jude and helping him learn songwriting. So not long ago, Jason to hang out with Jude at home. So check this out. (classical piano music) - We're in Denver and we're I thought it would be best and just to get to know (Jude plays piano music) My main goal today is just to figure out how his personality is and just what his learning techniques are. (door knocking) (people chuckle) - Good to see you too. - I'm excited. - How are you? I want Mr. Jason to teach me When did you start playing, Mr. Jason? - I started playing around six years old. It was very similar to you And when I was a kid I - Oh! - Which, as you know, there's many different - Oh! And I'm autistic too. - Yeah, and my son is as well. - Oh! - But there's different, everybody has it a little bit differently, how they think. So, I spent a lot of time by myself and my mom had to work long hours and so a lady next door used to watch me. She had a piano and I I pinched myself every morning. I can't believe that I get for a career and I see He has such a future ahead of him. The only thing I hope is I would love to know that (piano music plays) We can as to why certain things work. - Yes. - And that's gonna help down the road. - Uh-huh. - Different musicians see (piano music plays) I personally, I use the number system. It's what I grew up learning 'cause it allows me to without thinking about notes. So I wanted to get a sense for himself and if using the number of the techniques that I could teach him. (Jude plays piano music) You probably know this One to the five (indistinct) (Jude laughs) Seven (Jude laughs) Or we can go- One to the (indistinct) I quickly started getting so much more advanced Three to the- - Four. This. (Jude plays piano music) Let's go- (piano music plays) Jude told me he is really an original song and that's of experience with. So that's what we're gonna do. I heard you've already started on a song. - Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. - And do you write lyrics as well? Or are you just kind of - I just kind of focus on the music. (piano music plays) I wanna write about hope and faith. - [Jason] Everyone can use - [Jude] And the good times and the bad. - Absolutely. So that's a good universal topic. I'll see you soon. We're gonna be on Zoom together- - Uh-huh. - So- lots of more fun. I'm gonna bring in some writers. And then if you need anything at all, your dad has my number. Feel free to call me if you need to or text me or Zoom. - [Jude] Of course. - I'm there for you. (piano music plays) (indistinct) It's cool to get to hear him It's a really beautiful song. I can hear where he's going with it. It's a little complex for pop. We're gonna really simplify and that way the chorus we're gonna make it so that he shines and whoever's singing it (piano music continues) I'm just so impressed. Not only by his talent, but And you can tell he comes and man what a joy. That's all I can say. (piano music continues) (audience claps) - And now after performing Jude is here on the couch (audience cheers) - [Kelly] And my music - Hello again! (Kelly laughs) Hello again! - Hello! So it's great to see y'all again. Have you met Chris and Kristin? Y'all could say, hey! - Hello. - Hello. - Hello. (Kelly laughs) - So June, what was it like Like come over and help? - Wow! It was awesome. The lesson was good and I wanted to write about hope and faith and the lesson was good. - Yeah, that's like you've started in Christian music, right? - Yeah. Yeah, we talked a lot about, we were, a lot of similarities. 'Cause as you know, I was Now we know it's a spectrum. - [Kelly] Yeah. - So I put all my stuff into music and grew up in church and that's how I learned to follow people with different kind of timing. (Kelly guffaws) That's why I've been - So you're excellent with me. and we got a lot of time 'cause I can't teach him (Jude chuckles) Like when oh, I'm gonna show him some things. Like the kid is true level prodigy. (Jude chuckles) And so I gave up real quick on that. And he was like, &quot;Don't That's what you told me. (Jude and Isaiah laugh) (audience claps) - Yeah, I'll teach you. - Well you can both learn from each other. I think that's artists of all ages. When you stop learning then you just kind of die artistically. You know, like it's just boring. You always wanna be learning. So that's cool that you're So Isaiah, I mean, as a musician yourself, what was it like watching - It's been so special to watch because somebody like Jason, they have something that they say, time is money. For somebody like Jason, to pour it into Jude. And he's learning about a lot of stuff. - [Kelly] Yeah. - He's teaching him how to The modulations, making bridges - Bridges are my favorite by the way. - [Jude] Uh-huh! - Are they yours too? - I think so. - It's like my favorite part of a song. Because you switch it up just a tiny bit and you're like, ooh! And then it comes back to what you knew. It's like nice. I like a bridge. Have y'all ever had that were great mentors? Like, you know how Jason Have you've ever had that? - I had a great teacher at my college, Oklahoma City University, And she's the one that told me, you don't have to just be You can be an opera singer. And she didn't have me in a box. So I wanna say that to you. You can do all that music. It impressed me kid. - Yeah. The limitless thing is nice. - [Kristin] Yes! Did you have that? - Well, I honestly, I thought about that and I have a lot of people Who along my journey taught as I grew. 'Cause I needed more, I And some people only had enough knowledge for this time in my life. - Yeah. - And there was another and then another one. So collectively, those are my angels. I wouldn't say just one. - That's really good. Surrounding yourself with people that make you a - Yes. - Absolutely. - Lesson 101 in friendship. That's awesome. So Isaiah, you have something that you wanna say to Jason, right? - Yes. We are so very grateful- - To Jason. And we say God bless him so much because again he spends his time to fly all the way to Colorado. - [Kelly] Yeah. - You know, looking at where I come from- - Well Colorado is awesome. - I know. Looking at where I came from, Ghana, and to see all this going on, it's so huge for us and we will forever be grateful to Jason, the whole team and then - Oh my gosh. No, it's the coolest thing- (audience claps) For us. We've been in the industry for a minute. He's been longer than I have. And it's, man Jude, I can't say this enough, like we're still students. We've But, still to have you and like school us a bit It's a really cool thing to that just, you get to trade (Jude laughs) But I know that Jason, you have a surprise for - Yeah, I do. I was visiting your house. I know we talked a lot about songwriting and a big part of songwriting And I know that you're getting - Yes. - And I thought, well what can happen? I can't be there all the time, but maybe I could give you And so I went out and got this for you. I've got your own laptop, which we're gonna get logic here on here. - [Jude] Thank you! - And we're gonna work - Thank you so much. - Share it with your brothers and sisters. - Ah! - [Kelly] Yeah! - All right, well this we're gonna see Jude on this show. Once he and Jason finish their song, we are bringing Jude back We are very excited about this- - And I'm gonna decide who's gonna sing. - [Kelly] All right, I like it, I like it.