This video is sponsored by WorldAnvil. Last month, I made a video about making characters about some of the ways building a character and also introduced some important themes of I'm going to dive a lot deeper into that aspect, this book provides worldbuilding details and If you like this video, make sure to subscribe subscribed, and from what I've seen, a but they're actually not. And right now, as the last thing I want is for you to miss hit the subscribe button, so you're This video does include some spoilers for major probably shouldn't know about. So if you're video... then you're agreeing to become a Shadowdark rule. Now, I have a series on my channel where this *is* an installment in that series - we are Shadowdark core game makes about its setting. But Shadowdark does not have a setting. There's no there are very few major named NPCs and certainly Shadowdark has released some zines with specific and maybe in a future video we'll they capture those fantasies through because there's some really cool stuff there. But let alone anything as defined as the Forgotten going to create your own setting from scratch small and discover your setting through gameplay. Well, part of the way you are going to rolls on random tables, or details you might monsters or what have you. And that means the proper nouns Shadowdark includes when it we can also learn a lot from the times where the and where the game instead just First, I want to talk about how the character of your Shadowdark game. I talked about this about how character creation kind of teaches you this discussion, as well. For example, class thieves and wizards of different alignments are are zealots and cultists and scourges and chaos templars, champions, and paladins - and and oracles. Those are all evocative as hell. of little details like that, things that can help compatible with the core concept of Shadowdark. Wizards and priests roll a d20 to cast each of failure. When wizards critically fail their If priests critically fail, they perform ritualistic penance to their and Shadowdark even spells it out in "Wizard magic is fickle, complicated, mages tread carefully when reaching beyond magic is miraculous, sacred, and their gods might lose the ability to cast This might not sound like it, but it's mechanics work, we know that a Shadowdark someplace like Eberron or even the Forgotten enough to consistently be a part of the regular you can probably think of some ways exceptions but kind of by definition, spellcasting that you could structure a society around spellcasting appears to be, the more frightening that's where my head goes, and we'll see Now, you could argue that magic *items* like a city that uses flying carpets But that's another thing I like - yes, wizards consistently. Because when a wizard levels up, talent, something new they can do that they don't of the options for the wizard is that they get to So not only will some wizards not be able to make roll that result one of the few times they level a magic item, they may not even get a chance can make! The magic item is created by rolling on of how the game works, the world of the game you could get a setting like Eberron or Ravnica. Next, I want to talk about the gods of Shadowdark. actually super interesting, it comes from a bit "And so the Primordial Age ended, and the and they scattered the earth with So, the game suggests that there was an age what does that mean? Does that mean they are planet? Probably not, since priests still the gods used to walk around on the planet, that's kind of what it sounds like to me, but it But then we do get some gods, and the words "The many gods of the universe are and Neutrality. The most well-known gods are or none. Priests must choose one god to serve of spellcasting if the priest commits blasphemous the lawful and neutral gods who stand for justice, The Dark Trio, chaotic deities who evince power, primary gods, but two are The Lost, forbidden or the oaths they swear, and ancient stories always So, first of all, Shadowdark fully tells you nine gods. Even in the Shadowdark zines, also really like what we have here. law and neutrality. On the other side, lawful and neutral gods actually get along all even though they're on the same team? People on I also want to run through the descriptions "Saint Terragnis - Lawful. A legendary knight ascended to godhood long ago and is the Okay, so humans can ascend to godhood, and question. I also love that Saint Terragnis because it means you can seed stories throughout was a god. She can be a mythic figure, she slay dragons, or ride them? Fight in "Gede - Neutral. The god of feasts, mirth, but primal storms rage when her anger rises. I don't honestly have a ton to say about of god you need in a fantasy RPG "Madeera the Covenant - Lawful. Madeera was the of reality, a dictate called the Covenant, Ooh, what does that mean? Are these existence somewhere in the multiverse, or What happens if those symbols "Ord - Neutral. Ord the Unbending, the Wise, the Secret-Keeper. He is the god of magic, What exactly Ord is like is totally up to you. but even that can take a lot from Marvel Comics is pretty different from And then we get the chaotic "Memnon - Chaotic. Memnon was the first a red-maned, leonine being whose ultimate ambition is to rend the cosmic laws of the Something I don't think we see often enough in with each other. I'm as guilty of this as anyone and we never had any sense of how they that had some animosity toward each other. lion-like twin who wants to tear her apart and "Ramlaat - Chaotic. Ramlaat is the Pillager, and live by the Blood Rite, a prophecy that says Now, I tend to get pretty wary about lore that I made a whole video about that. But first of we used to get better explanations for antagonistic behavior toward other humanoids, time because the creators felt like they there's a bit less stigma over orcs being chaotic just as easily be chaotic and that's not assumed Shadowdark players might worship Ramlaat, which is where the evil gods didn't even Third, Ramlaat isn't "god of the orcs," "many" orcs worship him, so there's also some and not *every* orc worships him, so you can and cultists. And fourth, as I said in that I like it way more. Here, we get something mentality that actually makes the orcs really and only the strong will survive. So their in between Viltrumites... and doomsday of potential characterizations to explore are presented later in this video, but "Shune the Vile - Chaotic. Shune whispers arcane in the dark hours. She schemes to displace Ord so Love it. Again, even though I know a bunch of my Shadowdark players are because she's just so evocative. And she which is really cool, it's a good dynamic. And "The Lost - alignment: question mark? their names expunged from history and memory. Yet their whispered legend lives on in I get so excited by the idea of the Lost - there's go with the American Gods idea that these gods power? Or are they bad guy gods who were so bad, imprison them and banish their memories from guys managed to screw over? Are they figures It's totally up to you to decide, but this is put into their game worlds - big open questions super cool and exciting and uniquely *theirs*. In in every Shadowdark game I run. Sure, part of players can continue to explore together, and one day discover - and I do want to do just the fun of Shadowdark is also in how the story gameplay. And so it might actually be fun to are fundamentally different, even down to the on the story. Maybe this is something I'll have discussing how I want to handle the continuity of Of course, one challenge when running or even just the same game world for multiple straight. But that's going to be easier than For the Shadowdark game I'm starting this month, just going to prep session-by-session, setting out playing it all by ear. So I could use some way to using Google Docs. And thankfully, WorldAnvil has well-organized articles that I can share information I've come up with for a location or as I improvise more details during the game, I page. And when I come up with secrets I don't to the article in a special section only I can time comes when they get revealed to the group. game so there's not much I can show you yet, but I can show off the WorldAnvil document I made In the meantime, you can get started on is offering you a discount to do just that! the promo code Supergeek at checkout to save that's WorldAnvil.com/SupergeekMike and so much to WorldAnvil for sponsoring this video! Next, I want to talk about the way we learn In a lot of ways, Shadowdark presents your people drinking and playing games in taverns, monsters and whatever. Player characters are explorers, adventurers, and treasure hunters. that doesn't mean Shadowdark PCs may never do does the game not assume your PCs are heroes that's not what they're known for. That's into the treasure hunting gig. And as I that sort of narrative detail helps prime your expectations from them. They're less likely to they know that, actually, monsters are deadly However, I also really like how the game implies but they're not likely to help you. There are their money to earn more XP and potentially outcomes include other adventurers. For example, but you reflected it off your cup." Doesn't NPC that day. Or, even better: "You pulled off tower." That feels like something straight out that? Clearly some sort of evil wizard off But there's also an entry that describes of skill. And that's something else I think is this channel about how I don't like the fact especially some of the ones set in the Forgotten Shadowdark, there's a chart to generate NPCs, that's not part of the charts. But there's also a same class options as players. Now, the thing could turn out to be allies, or they could turn rivals the entire time. And the fun is that you're depends entirely on how the players interact average people living their lives, they're not coming in to rescue you, then I don't mind them video about this topic in the future, about why class levels, but one of the reasons I don't paladins and wizards in the government or going on these adventures instead of the heroes? same adventures. That's the problem - you want rewards. It's a cool way to handle the existence player characters. And that helps to inform how the two parties of treasure hunters in "The Mummy" Speaking of mummies - let's talk about the can we learn about the world of Shadowdark from just gonna just kill you the moment they see you, you don't roll for the reaction when you already or for anyone who rolls up on its lair. such as undead, are always hostile." But as I said joy of discovery. And that includes the fact the party meets a monster or a group of monsters Next, I want to talk about the way some encounter charts. First of all, a lot of the which helps you as the Game Master imagine what blundered into them. "The Ice Rat Tribe (3d6 wounded, outcast drider skitters along the random beneficial potions." "Two gnolls fight the game is making it clear that even the But also... sometimes the random encounters the Arctic encounters, we get "The Waste Walker," this is meant to be a creature who is renowned, that's how I read it. In the Swamp encounters, offers a random magical item. But maybe my random encounter charts is the Overlord. Who he might ride by with a heavily armed honor guard. Overlord levies a 500 gp "filth tax" on the demand explanation," and "The Overlord is dining villain, you know that's my kind of trash. In push a diamond into a PC's hand. The Overlord's where they might sweep in and scan the crowd. And a temple surrounded by 3d6 knights. So, who those are the only references to him - well, I are never any pronouns given for the Overlord. who is the Overlord? That's obviously up to you. Now, we're done with the random encounter themselves. There are some great worldbuilding For example, the entry on Demons tells us that the ones that tend to appear over and over utterly unique in powers and appearance. So the the marileth, and the balor. To be fair, that's art for the Balor, but still, we're talking about beefy boy. So these are the *little* guys, and cool cool cool. Jumping to the devils, "A stunningly beautiful, horned human with stars. Two stitched-up gashes weep blood from its gashes on its back, and no wings, and also have you probably have some of the same ideas how exactly the archdevil wound up in this Going through the monster chapter, but I just think it's neat, this is the image logo on the amulet around its neck - the it's the logo for the creator of Shadowdark. Anyway, the entry on giants refers to warring with dragons for supremacy over the seas caused their glorious societies to erode." That's compatible with a lot of our pre-existing ideas of and I think that's really interesting. No, not any but that's hardly surprising, though. No, just the of worldbuilding. It kind of tells you a lot about other games take themselves too seriously to have I also really want to highlight Rathgamnon - 20 feet tall, and is the mightiest servant of space from the highest mountain in the realm of Critical Role's Vox Machina campaign, I really basically Shadowdark's version of the yuan-ti. and scattered civilization of snake-people who and cunning. Their descendants fight for scraps forgotten cities." So, they have no empire, but this description helps decouple the snake-men from their connection to South American But now, I want to talk about three we've got the tarrasque. And it's what the size of a mountain. We do get the and it is the most dreaded creature to walk the 5e says it's "widely believed" there's only ambiguity to reinforce the core concept more, but it makes a big difference in establishing piece of art in the entire book. It's by Lucas Lucas Korte did almost all of my favorite pieces talk about that monster next - because this "Its ten eyestalks writhe like snakes, and blinding what was once a large eye above a that scar is basically the Arcane Library logo You'd want your logo branded somewhere on to be a literal brand dug into the most iconic Anyway, once again, the ten-eyed oracle is other hint that there's anything else like "The Ten-Eyed Oracle stalks the Shadowdark, freely between the lightless fathoms of the The Ten-Eyed Oracle was once a benevolent drove it to insanity and reckless hatred." with any backstory you like for The Ten-Eyed And finally, we get my favorite entry in monster at all - we get The Wandering Merchant. lore of this game, click away if you only "A cheerful merchant who appears to be handlebar mustache. He wears a white shirt, towering backpack bursting at the seams. Few though some theorize he is an immortal incorrect). The Wandering Merchant always has sell at a reasonable price, and there's no Actually, there is *some* telling where or when Wandering Merchant actually shows up on the random as the second-to-last entry on the chart. sometimes he just wanders into wherever the player actually represented in the quote at the bottom "Fancy meeting you here, at the bottom of a pit for sale..." I love The Wandering Merchant, he some subtle worldbuilding happening on this page. by magic, and there's a high DC to hit him with wields a +3 vorpal bastard sword, so if he rolls But he can also teleport away instead of attacking or what is Rahm-Hotep? No idea! Well, let me Wandering Merchant also carries a bottomless bag, times what a normal player character can carry. by simply snapping his fingers. He's got a set magically or mundanely altered in any way. Anyone and slowly transformed into a cockatrice, which is become, so weird. They can only be transformed stolen goods. And finally, "The Wandering Merchant environment he does not wish to suffer." So, what ideas, but you've probably got your own, too - and we could talk about magic items, but to be honest, do get a couple of interesting proper nouns. that bears a jagged, glowing rune on the cover and which is a die with a bunch of goblins on and when you roll the die, you get an 18 for the vanishes to somewhere else in the multiverse. some point in the lore of Shadowdark, that's the sponsored some magic items, he's got a blazing all of which are pretty mighty. And there's the cogs give you luck, and the Kytherian Mechanism so that's a whole quest right there. In fact, the Kytherian Mechanism sank into the sea near want to talk about next - which is the location the book, and they're all evocative enough that with some really cool adventures. Myrkhos sounds a coincidence, considering that the Quick Start Greek mythology. The rumor chart also has an entry deep within the forest," and Yal-Tool makes a monster entry for Obe-Ixx of Azarumme, a of Yal-Tool and became an ur-vampire. There's referencing armor made of giant scorpion chitin jungle, all of which could be useful to you if There's also Thanian, that's referenced as and manticores. Where do all those folks live but I'd guess it's probably called something like the monster entry for Mordanticus the Flayed, "Once the head of the ancient, wizardly order of the sanctum of Gehemna's reigning archmage. He has but an enduring enchantment prevents him and The Ten-Eyed Oracle." Man, I think mummy lord who is somehow connected Gehemna sounds like it's still a living the magic items. The Tome of Gehemna is a sentient and contains a random spell scroll every day. It [Musical Sting] That's... that's the Arcane Library logo again. where Mordanticus the Flayed still resides. Oracle - the one that obliterated its central logo was also around the neck of the efreeti. fun detail... it's diegetic... is... is there a literal somehow responsible for some of the most dangerous beneath the surface of the earth? And it's they seem to still be a thriving civilization, because that sentient magic item is interested in wizard-ruled society? Are they still reachable do for them? Who scarred its face, and [Sinister music] Now, obviously, if you're running a you can throw out anything we've talked about cool. But part of the appeal of a game like but you probably aren't going to be served well if plan of the major arcs you've got in mind. Now, and I hope to run them again, many more times in big appeal is more in discovery. In building the that, slowly building the *world* through emergent this video, I've only run my Session Zero for my I asked everyone to roll a d100 to find out what way to figure out what plot hooks the players had I had to prep. And one of them rolled that there they had already been discussing being part two members of the party had rolled the Scholar this is the university where our organization is writing this script, I'm going to use some charts Shadowdark adventure - but this university where the heart of the world as I develop it, and as our But what I think is cool is that everything waiting for you. It's probably all going to be because you and your players will be rolling on learn about a reference to Yal-Tool, or the empire. And so, even though Shadowdark does some details that are implicitly true about any once somebody rolls the right result on a random Thank you so much for watching. I've gotten I probably won't get a chance to do one next so let me know what you want to hear about next! I in the future, but not right away, maybe later again, let me know in the comments what topics the meantime, make sure to subscribe and ring videos. Support me on Patreon if you're able to, a whole lot more than I can even begin to say. for the past few weeks but I am really hoping to better. I was hoping to feel a little better when up being the case, so soon, I'm really hoping about what I've got going on. All of those links about whether or not you should cancel games when you should. But still watch the video, it's a