BILL NYE: Is the earth flat or round? It's round, okay. Now, let's see. How do we go about proving that? MICHELLE THALLER: That's a hard thing for are so many proofs that the earth is round NEIL DEGRASSE TYSON: B.o.B., the rapper, I of which is in &quot;&quot;Letters From An Astrophysicist.&quot;&quot; That rose to that level of attention because and physics to show Earth is flat.' Those are fighting words. You're going to say using math and physics? That is an alarm to the Geekoverse that we the dark side that are out there. THALLER: There are proofs all around you. It is not difficult to know that the earth So let's start from the simple to the slightly One of the things you can see yourself with out to a lake and there are boats on that the bottom of the boat will disappear and boat. And as a boat goes farther and farther away, of the mast of that boat, and that's because that's curved. And that means that as it goes farther and bottom of it and more of the top of that. You can see that with binoculars by an ocean, It's really easy. That wouldn't happen if the earth were flat. You would simply see the boat getting smaller away, but you'd be able to see the whole thing NYE: Go to the seashore. Go to a seashore and figure out if you live see Spain from the East Coast of North America. Just go to the middle of the Mississippi River Why can't you see Louisiana. Why can't you see New Orleans. What's the problem there? Or the climb a tower or go to the top of a farther, but you will not see to the other For example, I've been to London. I can tell you other people have. I've been to Vancouver, British Columbia and from Boise, Idaho let alone from New York THALLER: Then there's some other proofs that really lovely and one is to observe What happens Now a lunar eclipse happens when the earth The moon actually goes dark. In fact if you've seen one you could actually And when the moon is entirely in the earth's kind of red colored. It's really, really beautiful. What's happening in that case is that the The earth is in the middle and it's casting The earth is casting a shadow on the moon. And as the shadow moves across the moon you'll So something like the Sun that's bigger than the earth on the moon can actually show you Aha, you might say, but could the earth be Could it be flat but it's actually still shaped There was a Greek scientist called Aristarchus lunar eclipse at many different angles where Sometimes the shadow goes straight across Sometimes it just kind of glances the moon top or on the bottom. From every different vantage point, every shadow you always get a perfectly curved shadow. The only shape that can cast a shadow that's is a sphere. So people have known that the earth is spherical NYE: Look at pictures from space where you Those pictures are not faked and I'll tell tell they're not faked. Just to create the paperwork that NASA had Just the paperwork to send anything out in To send people into orbit or to send them make faking it prohibitively expensive. No one could afford to generate that much Then the other thing if you want to get into have them get on a boat or a ship and go out far. Furthermore if you get into it enough pick learn about navigation. A very, very important thing you have to take ocean from a ship or a boat is how high you The higher you are off the sea surface, the horizon is. THALLER: I actually said this to somebody of it, but with binoculars you can see planets. You can see Saturn and Jupiter. You can see Mars with a telescope. The sun, the moon, everything else you see So we're the one thing that is different? And that actually made somebody who was more that got them to think like you're right. Everything else we take a picture of is a NYE: And you guys, come on. Everybody watches newscasts. You all use mobile phones. You all see airplanes fly around. You all go to see Ed Sheeran in concert one This all depends on our fundamental understanding extraordinary precision. And if you want to get into it the earth isn't It's a little wuhh. Its spin is a little wuhh, stretched it, made THALLER: And it's not okay to think that the This is not a viable argument. I have friends who have been on the international They have orbited the earth once every 90 I have had personal experience with people their own eyes that the earth is round. And, of course, we've taken all these amazing They're so beautiful all those pictures of So I don't really know what's going on right TYSON: In a debate what is the construct? It's typically two people and there's an audience issue and then there's a winner of the debate. And everyone walks away reflecting on the So who wins a debate? It's often the person who's charismatic, who of course. Who had a good way with words, good vocabulary. And you can have someone who doesn't have who could lose a debate. So then what is the point of the debate if true? I will not enter a debate where I have the other person does not. That is something that should not be debated, debated. You want to debate something? Debate political policy of what to do in the Do you have carbon tax? Do you have solar panels? Do you subsidize them? Debate that. Don't debate something that is or is not objectively NYE: This is all susceptible to analysis, tell your friends to spend some time learning Ahh. Navigation has changed the world by the way. What are you wearing? You're wearing stuff that came from another It didn't get here by magic. It got here through science. TYSON: I think it's important to combat people science, evidence and physics behind their they're using it badly. That needs to be called out. Otherwise, if you just have a belief system We live in a country that protects free speech You want to think Earth is flat, go right But if you start influencing other people no foundation in objective reality it can If you influence people or you yourself become laws, rules by which we all abide in society, to be in. If your personal belief system which does starts becoming predominant in the thoughts THALLER: It's not okay to say that the earth This is some sort of strange denial. I don't know where it comes from and it's We really need to put this question to bed for a long time.