This is your typical social media account. It's on Reddit, a popular internet forum. This account is giving relationship about their personal issues. In another post, the account is talking they are also giving advice about they are posting jokes, Oh, and a possum. And at first glance, you might typical social media account, right? Well, no, this account is actually a bot. It's been using other people's And it's doing a great job. So, how do I know it's a bot? there are several reasons. For example, this account reused a Word for word. Five years ago, on Reddit, what's something you're proud And a user called King A few days back, a new post appeared AskReddit, and it asked the same question. What's something you're proud And guess what? Our bot account responded by stealing five years ago word for word. This is a classic example of bot behavior. Another telltale sign is subreddit called, What is my CQS? CQS stands for Contributor Quality Score a CQS, based on various signals. This can include past user actions. Network and location data. And the steps taken to secure an These scores are then used to place Highest tier means that you're tier means that you're a bot and So in this specific subreddit, And the auto moderator responds. So this account posted on the A clear sign that it's a bot. In fact, many accounts posting on but that's what is fascinating. Yes, this account is a bot. But it doesn't look like a bot. And it doesn't act like a bot. All these accounts are incredibly And what's worse is that this It's on YouTube. It's on Twitter. It's on TikTok. Chances are we're all communicating Far more than we realize. But who are these bots? What do they want from us? And since this is a software related A cybersecurity company called Imperva And it revealed that nearly half of that 49. 6%, a staggering 32 percent are bad Now it's important to note that There are in fact good bots For example, some bots But then you have bad bots. And bad bots are software applications tasks with some sort of malicious intent. And the growing popularity of A few years ago, you may have come across it was almost always related to crypto And if you've spent some time on this and think, Oh, well, this But things have changed. Bots have gotten smarter. And the sheer number of And I guess the question is, why The simple answer? It's become incredibly easy to create bots all it takes is stealing And of course, leveraging No, not this guy. This guy. So, how easy is it to create a bot that's Pretty easy. Here's how. So, I wanted to create and to keep things simple, I decided For those who don't know, Reddit is a posts by specific topics, You can upvote just like any other social media platform. so my idea was to create a bot that something on topic and relevant. now, if you're a developer or a software can create this bot using some sort of But let's be honest, you're not here And I didn't want to write an Mainly because I wanted to create So I went to GitHub and searched found this pretty quickly. is a Python script that someone else has The developer who created it describes It analyzes trending subreddits and the artificial intelligence tool, to This is perfect. So I cloned the repo and took the code. Next, I went to Reddit and created a And then I told Reddit, I wanted to Reddit gave me a secret key and some ability to use a bot on their platform. That part was honestly surprising. Reddit was like, Oh, Sure. Here's all the information you need. There were no checks to verify my They didn't ask for my phone number. To create the account, I used the 10 minute mail platform. And as soon as I created the account, key to access the API and Reddit Typically, a website should have be an active user for 30 days before they y were totally fine with it, which Anyway, once I had the details, I just I also needed an OpenAI key as ChatGPT would be generating So I got that as well. And that's all I did. I inputted all the necessary Essentially, this is what it It and then picked a random post. the script then performs some research. It reads through the post titles, And based on the research, the And comment gets automatically also provides notes on how ChatGPT So for example, my script tells ChatGPT with witty observations, jokes, and also and this can be changed if I wanted it to. so using open AI's GPT model, for this post. And using Reddit's API, it on that post and on my profile. Now this comment was in reference nor do I understand, but it And this entire setup took a few minutes. And the comment that it outputted human, and it was engaging. I was able to do this without much I can create as many comments as I how much money I want to put in to But here's a crazy part, I can now large amount of comments that may say For example, in the part of the script a comment, I could add something people should contact me to learn how and that's exactly what I did. I told the bot to include this This time it commented on this post. And the bot posted this. Imagine if the fox called in sick Fox emoji. By the way, if you want to turn 1 into So this is a bit lame, but it And with more customization and it sound a lot more natural. and this kind of bot can be created You can build an entire network of program them to say whatever you want. It's incredibly easy. It was easy for me to do. And with the advancements of AI, So now that we know how these bots is to answer why they're created. the most well known reason to influence and manipulation. Bots can shape public When it comes to the media, that gets hyped the most. Political disinformation bots. But honestly, it doesn't seem we encounter on social media. the everyday bots that appear on social to scam us and take our money. And two is to sell a product that's So let's talk about it. When it comes to scams, some the not safe for work bots. I'm sure you've probably seen it. These bots flood social media often including links to shady websites. And the goal here is to lure users can be phishing scams, where you or it could just install some You see this quite often on Instagram, even go a step further and pose as trusted TikTok is flooded with this. Nearly every video I post on These bots comment and claim that some specific person actually And this is all a lie. These bots are looking for any potential And they're just trying to look for can help you recover your social media social media platform or yourself. But what happens is that you either pay back and they just take your money. Or you give this user your access you then get your usual crypto bots dollars, they'll magically turn it And these are the most common They're incredibly spammy, but But then there are bots which are their intent to scam isn't so obvious. This is an example of the bot I Who was offering advice, posting And even creating their own content. those bots are the biggest issue and so now there is this new reason and this opens up a Bots are now being created with bot account to someone else. And then that someone else will be able Here's how it works. the bot is created and it then gains trust of And over time, nobody suspects it's a service, producing scammy links. or saying anything that's Eventually the creator sells a bot or party who uses them to artificially boost And this is quite common when someone let's say you want to sell really want to spend thousands on advertising Like Facebook or Instagram ads. instead you spend a hundred dollars You post about your product on They all like the post and leave Some comments are positive, some are negative just to make it look authentic. then the Instagram algorithm traction and it assumes it's because So it then boosts your post And now real people see your clicking and buying your product. And that kind of bot there is also a market for that. Here is someone who posted on a developer who has a bot that can manage And this method is scary because bots that act like humans. and these bots are creating They're even replying to our They're incredibly hard to spot, And as a day that's no longer created by humans. And eventually, that content and you may not even know. Currently, it doesn't look like we encounter daily that's generated by bots. And even worse is that this It's also extremely hard to track source or the original human. And unfortunately, recent data traffic has dipped to just 50. 4%, meaning organic interactions are see may actually be created by a bot. This trend is also likely to continue. And it doesn't look like this problem Thank you so much for watching. If you like my content, please I promise you I'm not a bot and Bye.