- Hey smart people, Joe here. This is a video about scientists centuries long quest to understand one of the most mysterious materials in the universe, diamonds. A mineral so strong it by another diamond. It's the story of how scientists uncovered the secrets inside these crystals and how they learned to replicate the extreme temperatures and pressures once only found deep inside our planet to achieve what was once unthinkable, making diamonds in the lab. Today we've been given that manufactures diamonds to show you what almost how this lab makes some and most resilient materials out of dead people. (bright music) Humans have been using diamonds when the ancient Chinese use it's likely our obsession goes back to the first time - I mean, imagine and you find this clear, I mean, it never rusts, it never goes away. It basically lasts forever, which is the marketing campaign diamonds are forever, right? - Despite this, the chemical are identical to those found in pencilled, a material that's famous So what makes a diamond a diamond? - And it's all about the the pressure and the temperature that that carbon forms under a lump of coal and you can or if it's the hardest and it's shiny and bright and beautiful. - Here at this lab they've of turning carbon into diamonds and that carbon comes - In our case, it comes from the loved and we're able to grow a diamond from that encapsulating this beautiful memorial that they can wear with them and have a bright shining wherever they go. My friend Joe passed away so we're growing diamonds which are my goddaughters, as well as his wife and for myself. - That's really special. I mean, I wanna see how this is done. - Absolutely. - Before we take a look at that process, we've gotta talk about that we humans can make Because before the 20th century, all the diamonds on And as recently as the 18th century, no one could even figure out You couldn't make them, you couldn't destroy them, they were just there, until one day, thanks to a lucky In the late 1600s, a couple of scientists in Florence were experimenting with heating diamonds by using a lens that They hoped destroying it would tell them something about They made a shocking discovery. The diamond didn't melt or it just vanished. Later in the 1770s, French chemists were sticking or into crucibles and furnaces, and they found the same thing. Over and over again the heated diamonds just disappeared without a trace. It seemed like if you could you could destroy the most These surprisingly simple experiments would help solve one of about the true nature of diamond. To show you how it works, I called my friends from who know a thing or two about chemistry and a lot about burning things. - It's true, I do love chemistry. (burner blazing) These are some very small, but very pretty diamonds and I'm running a stream 'cause that'll help them burn. At first, not much happens, but then the diamonds start to glow and slowly the diamonds and smaller as they burned away, and then something happened They got small enough that by the stream of oxygen gas, because this is chemistry where it literally never So I had to stop the experiment, lower the flow and try again, and then something even cooler happened. Some of the diamonds got buffeted around in the stream of oxygen and you can actually see Like, look at this one and this one, and then this one. Now the diamonds only vanish if they're heated in So the question is, what's going on here? - Now, at first glance, the French scientists thought they were magically ending up with nothing where there used to be something. But when they collected the gas coming off of the vaporized diamonds and bubbled it through a solution of calcium dissolved in This was strong evidence that the gas released was simple carbon dioxide. So now the scientists of what was going on. The diamonds were burning and the material coming off of them was reacting with oxygen in the air to create carbon dioxide, and what do you have to add to Carbon, a simple and surprising answer. The exact same stuff that is the soul ingredient in these But even though scientists had pinned down the single ingredient in that still left the problem Our planet does this all the time, deep in the mantle. But how exactly do you turn carbon into this instead of this? So you've gotta recreate earth's mantle in order to make a diamond and that happens in here. - That's correct, that's - So that's an earth's mantle machine. - Let's go. So is this what a million (both laughing) - Yeah, something like that. This will definitely press - A little overdone for my taste, I don't like them quite that dark for like the 2,000 degree cooking range. And this is where Abe and his colleagues turn the ashes of dead But before they can do that, they need to get the because we're carbon based life forms, but we're not all carbon. And the first step is to under high heat to vaporize other elements like phosphorus and nitrogen, leaving pure carbon behind. - You can see this is all the carbon that we get out of the ashes. So it's not very much. When you get in that super purified form, you're just getting a tiny If a one carat diamond is only So what we get is our carbon, this one is Joe right here. - This pure biological carbon is mixed with a special form of graphite and squeezed into this disc. That disc is sandwiched and a wafer containing a tiny diamond that will act as the It's now ready to be transformed into a larger diamond crystal. The process is surprisingly similar to growing rock candy out of sugar. To do that, you just into water saturated with dissolved sugar. The sugar molecules will out of the solution and stack in a very specific repeated geometry until you have a chunk of rock candy. But carbon doesn't dissolve in water. To make a solution of carbon, it's heated to high temperatures and dissolved into molten metal instead. At these extreme conditions, the carbon in the ash and graphite is ripped into single atoms, creating a solution of metal and loose carbon building blocks that can form a new crystal. Let's talk for a second about different things carbon can do. (upbeat music) Carbon can actually assemble itself into many stable crystal structures. Graphite is the carbon crystal formed most easily here and that's where each carbon atom is bonded to three other carbon atoms allowing different layers which is why graphite is ideal There's also Buckminsterfullerene and other less common Which form carbon takes depends on which structure is most stable under the given temperature and pressure. At the extreme temperatures and pressures found in earth's mantle, carbon is most stable in a where each atom is bonded This incredibly strong atomic arrangement is what gives diamonds their resilience. And to create that structure, you need to give carbon That's where this machine comes in. - The amount of pressure in here is like taking a Boeing 737 jet and resting on a post-it note. - [Joe] All that pressure is The growth cell holds the carbon disc sandwich with special metals, heated and squeezed to and it also contains one a diamond seed. - You put a tiny little diamond seed. It's the size of like a grain of salt, and you have to get that You want a nice perfect little square that acts as your template so that you get a nice even shape. - This little seed crystal acts almost like an atomic blueprint for the rest of the crystal. - That's right. - It's like, we've started We're gonna give you the directions and then all the rest of the carbon that continues to attach is gonna have the same geometry - Correct. - Wow! - These two plates right here, your growth cell is gonna When this closes, it's actually gonna compress and turn it into a pancake. - [Joe] The growth cell is heated to nearly 1400 degrees Celsius and squeezed at 55,000 here on Earth's surface, allowing free carbon atoms and deposit onto the seed crystal, enlarging the diamond's And after a couple weeks, the disc is cooled, pried out of the press and the diamond removed. After a short bath in acid to a raw diamond emerges. - Yeah, it's very cool to that you saw in the other room become this shiny brilliant rock, right? - Hardest material on earth right there. - Absolutely. This diamond still needs but it's essentially identical One of the only chemical differences between a diamond like this one and most diamonds mined from the earth, is the ratio of carbon isotopes. Since organic carbon holds due to what we eat. Without specialized tools, even an expert couldn't tell the two apart just by looking at them. And just like that, from death emerges a diamond. The diamond you're getting - Yeah. - What's the the final - So I'm doing a a blue emerald shape and I'm actually gonna He and I used to golf all the time, and I'm gonna set it as the - Today labs like this are speeding up fundamental processes that have been going on and well anywhere in the universe where we find carbon, heat and pressure. Whether a diamond comes from and whether it's turning or death into a memory, the resiliency of diamonds shows what amazing transformations are possible on our planet, stay curious. Hey guys, if you've been you know that every does an audience survey. We want to hear your feedback. We use that feedback to help understand what you enjoy on YouTube, what you wanna see us make more of. You also get to vote on new show ideas, so it would be super were well represented in the polls and let them know what There's a link down in description, thanks in advance and tell we sent you. Thank you so much for watching this video. You know, much like it and temperatures to squeeze carbon into a beautiful gemstone. Well, it also takes a to take basic science facts and knowledge and package them up into for you to learn from and we could not do that Like these fine folks at our top tier. You'd like to find out more helping us make these videos and you get to see them check out the link down a description and I'll see you in the next video. - Welcome to Autonomix, excited to have you here. - I'm ready to see how well we'll do that. Oh, come on in. (all laughing)