Hey, everybody. Don Georgevich here with Job Interview Tools. Today, I want to give you my 14 best tips you're awesome and I know you're going to In fact, I bet you already did. So, the next thing you're going to want to So, if you want to look like a star at your button and we will jump right in. So, you have a new job. Congratulations. Now, you want to make a great first impression. So, let's get you into the right mindset, Step number one; find out what people are It used to be traditional to wear a suit on You don't want to stand out like an oddball or business casual. Now, do you? Now, you should already have got an idea of on job interviews at this company. Okay? Step number two; if you have questions before Reach out to the hiring manager or someone Don't be afraid to call on them. After all, they're not going to take away Step number three; obviously, you want to your new job and to make a good first impression, So, get out from behind your desk and meet Even if you won't be working with them directly, Be social and let them know who you are. And that if there's ever anything that you And when you get out there and you meet people, create an imprint in their minds that you willing to serve and eager to work. It simply sets the tone for yourself. Obviously, you can't meet everyone on your and connect with your co-workers will pay So, get out there and meet people and show Step number four; don't be afraid to ask for Your manager wants to see you succeed. But before you ask a question, try to think it yourself and then ask for help, if you Asking for help is okay, but you don't want Number five; learn what everyone else does. As you're meeting your co-workers and introducing Ask their titles, the projects that they work to know at the company. Knowing these things is going to be very helpful to refer a colleague to someone who can help Have you ever worked somewhere that someone I have. And I always went to them to get what I needed. And this is the person that you need to become. This will elevate your status in the company. And when it comes time to promote someone, The person in the know. And that would be you. Number six; don't stress out yourself. Starting a new job is stressful enough, but to know in the first week. It usually takes three to six months for new Now, during your first 30 days is when you speed. So, use this time to learn everything you be expected to start doing your job at a much So, let's move on to number seven; ask smart Have you ever been in a meeting and you ask asking it? I think we all have. Asking those kinds of questions shows that And since you're new and you don't know what show curiosity and a desire for understanding. So, when a co-worker explains, let's say, it this way?" And a question like that shows a desire to Now, most people are going to say, "Why completely different message and forces your Do you see the difference on that? I mean, one is a smart question with an opportunity where the action must be defended. All right? Number eight, don't be afraid to ask your Keep that feedback early on, so that you can performance. I mean, after all, you want to do your best Number nine; to make a great first impression, your ability. I mean, you might think that it's obvious, is quickly noticed by your boss and your co-workers. So, whatever job you're assigned to do, do of schedule. Negative impressions are formed very early And since you're new, you don't want people Number 10; don't be a suck up or so nice that I mean, I've worked many jobs where the new I mean, don't get me wrong, being nice is But as with anything, there is a balance. I can assure you that your new team does not to the point of overdone. Now, if you're a naturally super sweet person, and give your co-workers time to get to know sweet as you want. Because you are who you are and you're not And the last thing in the world I would want any less than who they are. I mean, everything in life is balance. If you're generally {indistinct 06:00}, then to know you, and then let the real you shine Using this strategy will allow you to make relationship with your new team. Number 11; timing. Don't arrive too early for work. Maybe 10 to 15 minutes is ideal. And don't leave too early or right on time And then take a short lunch, if you can't. But in all likelihood, your co-workers are your first day. But I've always packed my own lunch and eat Number 12; don't be a diva. No matter what your status is, don't start It's okay to be firm, but for people who start really doing is lacking confidence inside by ordering everyone around. A lot of new hires don't realize that they one, so their co-workers don't get the wrong I'm not suggesting to be someone you're not, you. Too often, new hires hide who they are and Be you. Be genuine. Be there to help and do it enthusiastically. And when you first start a job, no one knows You're either going to form good impressions At least, for the bad impression, there are Number 13; don't be a know-it-all. Just be humble and let your co-workers teach talking about. I mean, every company does things differently. So, hear them out before you try to start And lastly, number 14, lay off social media and Internet surfaces for personal use. Even if they tell you it's okay, don't do your new job. So, there you have it, my friend. My 14 best tips on making a great first impression Now, if you want to go further, if these 14 want someone to come in and help you and advise me. Just reach out. I have a specialized coaching program that's You can go to www.jobinterviewtools.com/hpc. That stands for High Performance Coaching. And you can set up a time where you and I your new job. You can tell me all about it and I can give And so, you can kind of grow into the superstar All right. That's all I have for you today. Good luck on your new job. And I'll see you in the next video. Bye now.