Welcome aboard. Today we're overhead the &quot;Rough backside of a day ULT or Unit Level Training approximately 300 miles to the West of Guam. We which is a left-hand pattern, tangent to the BRC ship (or Mom) at the three o'clock position and We're currently Dash 2 in a three-ship You can clearly see our flight lead at our right is just outside of the camera field of view, on the opposite side of the formation. Our flight literally across the left-hand orbit pattern) to 3K and, once the section at 2K has commenced to break hand pattern, and once we're a beam and aft of mom, to cherubs 8 or 800 feet, for the carrier overhead carrier we're about to land on. The USS Theodore nuclear-powered aircraft carrier in the United Roosevelt, who was the 26th president of the United carrier's radio call sign is &quot;Rough Rider&quot;; which is Cavalry unit during the Spanish-American saw her first action during the Gulf War in 1991, anywhere the TR reports for duty, she brings tons of diplomacy. She's a floating city of At this time, the embarked Air Wing on the TR one Marine Corps Squadron, which collectively flew E-2C Hawkeyes, C-2 Alpha Greyhounds, and MH-60 The Air Wing enabled the ship to carry on a wide Warfare, Surface Warfare, Undersea Warfare, The TR also shares a task of replenishing non-combat missions, such as rescues at sea of and others in need of help, and my favorite Alright, back to the jam. So you can see we've the port to the starboard side. Our other wingman, in a cruise position...what we call an &quot;echelon We just passed overhead Mom for the second of fighters cross circle to us at Angels 2 has So as we keep our turn in, and we get abeam Angels three to Angels 2 or 2,000 feet and then We've got 180 degrees worth of turn to go now, &quot;loose cruise&quot; formation, and I'm doing this for two lead gets maximum maneuverability as we do these that he can maneuver freely and not have to worry hanging on. Secondly, as a dash 2 aircraft, I want to myself and dash 1 that can be replicated between the ground, the distance between dash 1 and dash Alright, we've got about another 45 degrees our left 11 o'clock, just in front of the the winds outside are relatively calm and Mom is knots for us to make that 25 to 30 knot &quot;wind-over-deck&quot; requirement, in order to land the airplane. Alright, our flight lead rolls out. We slowly so that we look good, as we break The lead aircraft breaks. We time 17 seconds, continue for the overhead. 17 seconds will give us that dash 1 and dash 2, which is what we're looking for. right looks good. Kiss off. See you later. Roll up 350 knots. About three...three and a half Gs, as turning 180 degrees...parallel to Mom's We'll roll out to target 1.5 nautical miles Slowing down now..250 knots gear comes down. We'll knock out our landing checks. This approach will be a PLM or Precision Landing of a Naval Aviator. Little signature move. Hope you drastically reduces the number of inputs a pilot its optimized control laws and tailored landing much safer and simpler. Additionally, it requirements, and streamlines training requirements. easier to fly int the landing configuration, which levels (PPSLs), specifically on case 3 [night] recoveries. Alright, targeting about 450 feet, as we continue our We're about 500 foot per minute rate of the 45 now, looking for about 350 feet above the which starts at the wing's level now. We go to our scan: meatball, lineup, angle of our left to our right. Meatball, lineup, angle of Shoot! Wave off lights...MIL power. Disengage I glance left, to make sure no one's on our that, smash down on the &quot;like button&quot;. Don't ask Check it back to the right now, so we're parallel to the BRC of the ship. Left wing I was just told by Paddles [LSOs] that there was problem should be resolved now, so the plan So we're up on a wing now, targeting that 1.5 We'll knock out our landing checks I go to the UFCD [Up Front Control Display] and engage speaking PLM once again. Looking at Mom. Looking at our instruments. Just about there...rolling out now. Take a big breath. Just waiting to get parallel to the &quot;round back end of Mom. Signature move. Feeling a lot it is. Time to start the turn...27 to 30 degrees that 15 to 18 second groove length. Going down, as we increase our rate of descent, Wrap it up just a little bit...keeping that turn in, view now. You can see her wake. You see the ship Getting ready for the wings-level transition...right... now. Meatball, lineup, angle of attack. Little more to the right. Meatball, lineup angle of attack. Meatball, lineup, angle of attack. Meatball, lineup, looking good. Looking good. Looking good. Oh, a Good trap. Two wire. Throttles comes back. Looking at my Director. He's saying, &quot;come forward&quot;. Coming forward. Coming forward. Right turn Coming right. [He] passes us off the next Director. Keeping it coming. He's saying, &quot;hurry Okay, we're out of the LA. A little more He passes us off to the next Director, all this after a trap. It gets a little sketchy. Coming forward. Little right turn. A Little right...little right...little right. Next A little more to the right. Alright, well guys if subscribe. Buy me a beer. The details are in the