He is the Lord of the Rings, the one who would ages of the world. But long before he would craft his ring and the most trusted lieutenant of Morgoth, assisting the mighty heroes of Beleriand. Today, on Nerd of the Rings, we cover the the ages of Middle-earth. In the beginning, Sauron was a maia known of the Valar. However, Mairon would be swayed to join the You see, Mairon had a love for order and a This obsession would overtake his love for it becomes his sole focus. So much so that he admires Melkor's power sees fit. Mairon comes to serve Melkor, becoming his He becomes known as Gorthaur, meaning "Terrible common name Sauron meaning "the Abhorred" In the earliest days of Middle-earth, Morgoth While Morgoth would rule the greatest himself, After the destruction of the Two Lamps and to move against Morgoth in the Battle of the While this would primarily be a siege upon search Angband. Sauron, however, would evade their capture his master is held captive in Valinor for We know very little of what Sauron did during awaiting the return of his master. This day would eventually come as the Valar to steal the silmarils, destroy the Two Trees flee to Beleriand. With the Two Trees destroyed, the Valar create As the Sun rises for the first time, it marks - Men. Morgoth sees an opportunity to corrupt these East of Middle-earth, leaving Sauron in command elves of Beleriand. In the first 455 years of the First Age, Morgoth the Elves, with the Free Peoples keeping the In 455, however, Morgoth launches the Dagor devastates the plains of Anfauglith, the realm of Morgoth's gradual march toward domination. Upon seeing the devastation across the plain, to single combat. Despite putting up a remarkable fight, Fingolfin The death of the High King of the Noldor, door for Sauron to attack the island of Tol We are told that at Sauron's coming, absolute of the Tol Sirion. The realm falls to Sauron and he takes control FA. This is an important event, as controlling Beleriand to Morgoth's forces. Tol Sirion is now ruled by Sauron and is renamed Werewolves, while only being mentioned in role in the First Age. Not only is Sauron their master, but he is These monstrous creatures were bred from the Sauron would then imprison evil spirits within At times, Sauron also takes on the form of He is also known to transform into a serpent After the Dagor Bragollach, Beren, his father as outlaws in their former lands of Dorthonion. Hearing of the actions of these men, Morgoth Sauron's orcs manage to capture one of these thought was his wife, who had been missing Thus Gorlim was ensnared; and taking him to the hidings of Barahir and all his ways. But nothing would Gorlim tell. Then they promised him that he should be released and being at last worn with pain, and yearning Then straightaway they brought him into the 'I hear now that thou wouldst barter with What is thy price?' And Gorlim answered that he should find Eilinel Eilinel also had been made captive. Then Sauron smiled, saying: 'That is a small So shall it surely be. Say on!' Now Gorlim would have drawn back, but daunted that he would know. Then Sauron laughed; and he mocked Gorlim, a phantom devised by wizardry to entrap him; 'Nonetheless I will grant thy prayer,' said be set free of my service.' Then he put him cruelly to death. In 460 FA, Sauron sends a force of orcs to where all are killed, except Beren. Beren continues to operate in the area as the forces of the Dark Lord. In response, Morgoth sets a high price on a great army of werewolves and fell beasts This forces Beren to flee south, where he Thingol to steal a Silmaril from Morgoth's This quest in 465 FA, would bring Beren, Galadriel's attempt the passage to the north. Finrod uses his magic to disguise the group isle unnoticed. However, Sauron had ordered all who pass to When he notices this band of orcs passing before him. There, Finrod and Sauron fight in songs of Sauron is more powerful. He strips them of their orc disguises, but purpose was. When they refuse to disclose any of this information, There, one by one, they are devoured by a Even as they are consumed one by one, Beren Finally, Finrod and Beren are the only two As the werewolf goes to attack Beren, Finrod his power left to him, kills the wolf. Finrod soon dies of his wounds from the battle. In this moment, Luthien comes to the bridge Sauron sees her from his tower of Minas Tirith and Thingol. Rather than kill her, he wishes to capture He sends werewolf after werewolf to the bridge, companion - Huan the Hound. Finally, Sauron sends Draugluin - the great After a fierce battle with the hound, Draugluin Sauron sends no more servants. He will take this battle himself. He takes the form of a werewolf - said to comes to the bridge to fight the hound of So great was the terror of his approach that Sauron leaps at Luthien. She draws her magic veil over his eyes, blinding Huan then jumps upon Sauron and the two fight It is said Luthien is left weak and very nearly alone. While Sauron fights fiercely, he cannot defeat Eventually, Huan traps Sauron within his jaws. In an attempt to escape, Sauron takes the captive. Finally, he returns to his normal form. Here, Sauron is faced with a choice. As an immortal spirit, he can abandon his - it takes a long time for him to regain it. Instead, he yields control of the isle to Now free, he takes the form of a vampire, forest with horror. 80 years later, in 545 FA, the Host of the in an effort to overthrow Morgoth. What follows is the 40-year War of Wrath, and devastation throughout the lands of Beleriand. In the end, Angband is destroyed, Morgoth his feet hewn from under him. Sauron, knowing his master is utterly defeated, deeds to Eonwe. Eonwe orders Sauron to return to Valinor, However, Sauron is unwilling to endure such Instead, he flees to the lands of Middle-earth, With his master banished to the void, the One that would use all his cunning, and his will. At the start of the Second Age, Sauron has master in the War of Wrath. He is told by Eonwe, the leader of the Host and be judged for his actions if he truly Instead, Sauron flees hiding in the lands 500 years later, Sauron comes to the conclusion Middle-earth, and he realizes that he can new dark lord. Sauron begins to work in the East and the been influenced by Morgoth. Preying upon these old alliances, he finds By 882 SA, Gil-galad, the high king of the He sends a warning to Numenor - though the earlier in Beleriand, a new power is rising Around 1000 SA, Sauron is alarmed at the growing Knowing he must create a stronghold of his the construction of Barad-dur near Mount Doom. Always a master at manipulation, Sauron must or the Men of Numenor. Despite knowing that men were easier to sway, power. He lies hidden for 200 years, all the while Finally, in 1200 SA, he puts on a fair visage He calls himself Annatar, the Lord of Gifts. Traveling to Eriador, he claims to be an emissary He wishes to infiltrate Lindon, as it is the and home of the high king. However, Gil-galad and Elrond do not trust While they cannot perceive his true identity, into their realm. Instead, Annatar turns to another elven realm There, he is gladly received by the Lord Celebrimbor. We are told that among the people of Eregion, However, Celebrimbor is swayed by the lord The elven lord leads the Gwaith-i-Mirdain, Annatar they learn much in both art and magic. Sauron, who was once a servant of Aule, the to become the greatest smiths of the age. It is said that Celebrimbor became more skilled grandfather Feanor. By 1500 SA, after studying under Annatar for reached the pinnacle of their skill and begin For Annatar had promised them that these rings over Middle-earth. After 90 years, the first 16 Rings of Power At this time, Annatar takes his leave from There, in 1600 SA, he creates The One Ring his own power so that he may control the bearers The ring is inscribed with the iconic phrase: nazg thrakatuluk, agh burzum-ishi krimpatul. In one of his first acts using the ring, he the very foundations of the dark tower to However, the elves would perceive his deception finger. Celebrimbor and the other elves are immediately Celebrimbor locks the 16 within a vault in had made himself after Sauron's departure, Above all others, Sauron covets the three He demands that the elves give to him all The elves refuse and the War of the Elves Next, Sauron builds the Black Gate of Mordor amassing an army of Orcs, Trolls, and Men We are told that despite finding many followers are still those who oppose him. Due to their resistance, and possibly thanks Sauron much longer than expected to raise Finally, 95 years after the creation of the As Eregion comes under attack, Gil-galad sends while also calling for aid from Numenor. After two years of bloody conflict, the capital captured, and the realm of Eregion is laid Sauron has Elrond and his forces cornered dwarves of Khazad-dum attack Sauron's rear Elrond leads the survivors, including Galadriel's the refuge of Rivendell. The dwarves retreat and shut the gates of again until the time of the Fellowship. Sauron tortures Celebrimbor, and while he on the version of the story) from the vaults the location of the three elven rings. The elf lord is killed, pierced by arrows, a war banner as Sauron continues his brutal By 1699, Sauron has conquered nearly all of are facing a vast and powerful army seeking At this moment, Sauron's control over Middle-earth At no time before or after would he rule over As the situation is at its most dire, the They reinforce the elves and drive Sauron Sauron retreats to Sarn Ford, where he is He retreats further to Tharbad, where he is However, Sauron was not aware of a second of the Gwathlo. This force attacks from the southwest, while from the North. Sauron's army is decimated and the dark By the time Sauron returns to Mordor (1701 guard. Gil-galad defeats the cut off forces laying Eriador is complete. While Sauron's might would never again equal his enemies had been decimated as well, so He held a deep hatred, however, for the Numenoreans victory. Eventually he would turn his attention to of arms. Still possessing 16 rings of power, all of Sauron decides instead to target the other Seven rings come to be possessed by dwarven by the One. The Nine however, are given to men - three King named Khamul, and five other men whose While initially becoming great rulers, warriors, 2251 SA, they first appear as the Ringwraiths Over 1500 years after his defeat in Eriador, great power and dominate all of Middle-earth, of the Earth, and many similarly boastful By this time, Numenor has fallen under shadow, and turning their backs upon the Valar and Sauron's titles offend one of the most evil In 3262, Ar-Pharazon lands a great fleet at So great was the splendor of Numenor that Knowing he cannot match Numenor with military to Ar-Pharazon. Sauron is taken back to Numenor as a captive, has far more dangerous weapons than brute He quickly goes from prisoner to the king's Sauron seduces the king with his words, turning his dark master... 'It is he whose name is not now spoken; for putting forward the name of Eru, a phantom to enchain Men in servitude to themselves. For they are the oracle of this Eru, which But he that is their master shall yet prevail, and his name is Melkor, Lord of All, Giver than they.' Known as Zigur the Wizard, the dark lord convinces and in its place, they build a great temple There, he serves at the High Priest of the among both slaves, and the Numenoreans faithful Finally, in 3310 SA, Sauron convinces an aging death, the Doom of Man, is to take the lands For the next nine years, Ar-Pharazon and the - the mightiest naval force ever assembled. As Ar-Pharazon sails for Valinor, Sauron remains As the Numenoreans land in Valinor, Eru himself He breaks the very world - Pharazon and his is plunged into the sea. Sauron is caught in the destruction of the spirit endures. Despite being weakened, his spirit flees back Once again, he sets to work, slowly but surely However, from this point on, he is no longer With this development, he abandons his attempts ruling through terror and force - truly becoming Some of the evil Numenoreans who had lived becoming known as the Black Numenoreans and Meanwhile, those among the Faithful also survive These people of Elendil remain Sauron's an attack in an attempt to not allow them Driven from his city of Minas Ithil, Isildur There, Gil-galad would once again ally with forming the Last Alliance of Elves and Men. Hearing of this new threat, Sauron sends orcs to ambush them and burns the gardens of the march to Mordor. Despite these moves, the Last Alliance reaches victorious in the Battle of Dagorlad - the For the next seven years, Sauron's tower Finally, in 3441, Sauron himself comes forth The appearance of the Dark Lord drives back Elendil and Gil-galad, the mighty kings of of Orodruin. Elendil and Gil-galad would succeed in vanquishing their lives. Coming up to Sauron's fallen body, Isildur, his finger, claiming it as his own in recompense Sauron's spirit would once again flee, this It would take the dark lord 1000 years to Without his Ruling Ring, his path to regaining Age, we find a Sauron who uses his servants and destroy those who would oppose him. Concerned about the idea of Sauron regaining - the wizards - who were tasked with aiding While his defeat against the Last Alliance Easterlings from his direct rule, the lands No doubt Sauron hiding in the East didnt help Around 1050 TA, a shadow comes to the forest It would settle at the former capital of the With this dark presence dwelling in Amon Lanc, - Dol Guldur, and this entity would be known For 250 years, Sauron's power and presence Not only does this evil grow in the south evil throughout Middle-earth. The Orcs of the Misty Mountains become more The dragons of the North attack the dwarves, of power during this time. The Nazgul return, with the Witch-King founding In 1635, a Great Plague inflicts much of Middle-earth. It is described as a pestilence brought by This plague, likely brought about by Sauron Gondor, Rhun, and southern Eriador. Due to the enormous loss of life, Gondor is which guarded Mordor, thus opening the door At this time, the Kingdoms of Gondor and Arnor being coordinated by a single force and agree However, as we've covered in our Angmar into ruin and decay at the hands of the Witch-King. While Angmar would be destroyed by a combined now kingless and decimated, is abandoned - it's the rangers of the north, and the line of Five years later, a balrog is awakened in VI and the dwarves exile from Khazad-dum. After being driven out of Eriador, the Lord he causes the disappearance and likely death (2060) At this point, everything has gone Arnor is no more, dragons and balrogs have king. However, Sauron's power has grown to a point enters the fortress of Dol Guldur. Still appearing as a mysterious shadow, and flees before Gandalf can determine his true As he is wont to do, he returns to the East, within, playing on old allegiances not only For nearly 400 years, Sauron would work in war. This period is known as the watchful peace. The shadow in Mirkwood is lessened, with only the Easterling - stationed in Dol Guldur. The other 8 remain in Minas Morgul, preparing In 2460, he would indeed return to Middle-earth the East. He returns to Dol Guldur. Three years later, the One Ring is found by not far away. At this point, sensing the danger growing though for centuries, Saruman as its leader the presence in Dol Guldur. At this time, Sauron's goals are simple - including the One Ring, and destroy the and still harbored a deep hatred for. Once again, we see Sauron's influence as In the south,Uruk-hai come from Mordor and Five years later, the orcs of the Misty Mountains mountains to prevent passage from the east With Moria having been abandoned by the dwarves sends orcs and trolls to live in the former Around this time, a clan of Easterlings under and begins raiding the areas of the forest This force, known as the Balchoth, attacks A group of men living in the north of Middle-earth As the Eotheod make their way south, it is in some way, but Galadriel sends out a mist They come to the Battle of the Field of Celebrant As a reward, they are given the lands of Calenardhon, While this development is not ideal for Sauron, In 2845, Sauron's forces capture King Thrain The dwarf is imprisoned in Dol Guldur, and power from him. Five years later, Gandalf makes his way to once again. He meets the dying dwarf and his long thought Despite Gandalf's urging, Saruman once again move against Sauron. The wizard hopes that as Sauron's power is searching for the One Ring. In time, Sauron learns of Isildur's death searching the area. In the south, agents of Sauron influence the once again attack the lands of Ithilien - weakening At this point, Sauron is finding success in Gondor is in conflict with Mordor and Harad, have created strongholds dividing east from in Dol Guldur. Gandalf sees these pieces of the board moving - the dragon Smaug now controls Erebor and of Middle-earth - including Rivendell and At which point, Sauron could crush Gondor forces. This threat leads Gandalf to implement a plan In a stroke of fortune, Saurman in 2939 discovers Fields for the One Ring, and finally concedes As Smaug is slain by Bard the Bowman, the Not only is Sauron driven from Mirkwood, but Mountains are decimated in the Battle of the The dwarves reclaim Erebor, Dale flourishes his northern campaign are ruined. A year later, Sauron returns to Mordor and is rebuilt. Sauron is now ready to move against Middle-earth Through Sauron, a phenomenon known as the causing despair and sickness among the Gondorians. It is this shadow that would claim the life of Boromir and Faramir in 2988. Rather than being directly involved in the through devices like this shadow, his servants This palantir, taken from the former Minas Sauron to not only communicate with other places throughout the world. In the aftermath of his wife's death, Denethor Seeing this, Sauron attempts to bend the Anor-stone Denethor's will is too strong to be conquered on him and cause him to lose hope. Around 3000, Saruman begins using the Orthanc-stone. Once again, Sauron attempts to bend the user Saruman goes from being one of his biggest during the coming war - though, as we will Nine years later, Gollum makes his way to regarding the One Ring. He is captured by Sauron's forces, interrogated, he is finally released in January 3017. It is worth noting at this point a major misconception In the Peter Jackson films, Sauron is famously However, in truth, Sauron at this time, and form. Gollum would later tell Sam and Frodo, "Yes, but they are enough." So this begs the question - what is the Eye While Sauron no doubt had physical eyes - as fire at the mirror of Galadriel and on the being is a giant eye. Rather, the Eye of Sauron is most notably weaponry, standing for his unrelenting vigilance no doubt aided with his use of the palantir. Now that we've covered his form, let's After Gollum is released in 3017, he is captured Sauron, who had hoped Gollum's release would is concerned by this development. On June 20, 3018, he sends his forces to attack but to cover his sending out of the Nazgul The nazgul's secrecy is a success, but the had hoped. His forces are driven back to Mordor, where army in preparation for a massive assault On this same day, in the north, he sends a allowing Gollum to escape. By September 3018, Sauron has learned that Tirith, that Gandalf has been captured by against him by thwarting Sauron's spies. He sends messengers to the Nazgul, ordering The Ringwraiths would discover enough clues pursue the ringbearer to the borders of Rivendell. Soon after, Sauron learns that Aragorn, the of the Ring. This leads Sauron to proceed at a quicker When Pippin and Aragorn look into the Orthanc-stone Sauron incorrectly assumes that Aragorn now Once again rushing to act, he sends the Witch-King Around the same time of the Battle of Pelennor to attack the northern realm of Dale. The Battle of Dale and the resulting siege, the 27th - two days after the ring is destroyed, driven out by the armies of the dwarves and As we know, in the south, things wouldn't His army is defeated at Pelennor Fields and Eowyn. Despite this defeat, he has managed to weaken enough armies in Mordor to defeat them. However, Gandalf once again forces Sauron The wizard advises Aragorn, Eomer, and the As this smaller army of free peoples marches concentrates on the heir of Isildur rather closer and closer to Mount Doom. As Sauron is poised to wipe out the army of Frodo puts on the One Ring. In this moment, Sauron sees the hobbit and He orders the remaining Nazgul to make all However, Gollum would intervene and in his slips and falls into the fires below. Thus, Sauron's power is unmade. His physical form is destroyed. His spirit rises above the lands of Mordor powerful wind from the West blows the cloud Sauron, now permanently and completely defeated, into the Timeless Void, never to rise again. As always, I want to say a huge thank you make this channel possible: Rob Thomas, Charles Leasure, CCDCRedTeam, SlideBelts, Dane Ragnarsson, BertoBerg, Graham Woo, and Debbie. If you enjoyed the artwork in this video, purchase prints of their great work for yourself! Thanks so much for watching and subscribing, Rings.