Now it's finally time Audi sedans, Sportback With this line-up here, can they take on the BMW 5-Series and the electric versions and the EQE by Mercedes? We're going to find out Autogefuhl in 4K, Very first glance here, this is the Estate, the A6 e-tron Avant, and here we have the Sportback version because it fulfills basically the sedan and Sportback version So, the new naming even numbers, so they are the electric models, uneven and so on, they will So, this is then the new naming logic. So, this is here a replacement of the A6, but then on the electric side, at the same time, it's also an electric A7. Did you get that? Well, we're going into detail here right now for you. This color here is Siam Beige. So, very interesting screaming out, A6 Sportback, so electric with a liftback in the rear, You can see here the two-dimensional This one also has so we have the black The headlamps are really slim in the integration. You have a low LED trim, a high LED trim, and then here the Matrix LED trim, the highest trim. You can also pick different light signatures. We can already see it right here. So, for example, this is different from the So, this is another individualize your Interesting also trim is from the then needs basically also to have the This is the new you have the same hardware on the inside but then have to pay extra We know it from Mercedes, for example, that to unlock the rear axle steering to a higher degree and so on. Not a trend I would exactly appreciate. First of all, let's stay here, 4.93 meters or 194 inches is the length. So, this is a region of today's Audi A6 but also it has basically this sensual, fluent line, case, again, with the have the black frames handles, they don't physical haptical underneath and then now get a soft closing These here are the now fold in electronically, to save some space when parking and so on. They will also have a different visualization now on the inside, that to you, but normal mirrors and we Look at that. This would be also an S model. There you have, for example, the silver contrast and it directly leads us over also to the Estate and there you can see that in the side profile it has this that this upper bow goes from the front to the rear. It has the very same length, the difference the roof fan is here to the back, and especially on the European probably the more And we can see in feature is that you have these illuminated Audi This looks very cool, isn't it? Again, an option, yeah, you know, there's the scheme, they try to condense it a little bit more with packages now, but still a lot of the things you can see with this vehicle is still an option. Standard, however, that you have the silver contrast right here. I think one thing I S models, of course, go for the Estate both is available and also as an S model. In the acceleration figures you would start with around six seconds to 100 kilometres an hour or 62 miles an hour and then you go further down and down up to 3.9 seconds is the quickest at the moment with the S6 model. You can find the figures for rear-wheel drive versions in and also in the So, you either have rear-wheel drive electric motor or an additional electric motor in the front and then you have this all-wheel drive setup, of course, without any mechanical link or something. But the rear electric motor will always be the stronger one. Interesting is that 500 liters on the this, you know, Estate model only volume than when down because here I think I really liked concept, I always A5 and also with the the exterior looks fluent, nice design way, but at the same time, you get great luggage capacity on the inside. Soon, I'm going to open that. First of all, here, the light strip goes all the way through. Look at that. These are also OLEDs, an option, organic LED, and there you can see you have an animation on the inside. Even here, when you know, like like that and, of impressive when indicators, you effect, for example, interaction with the example, also when indicators, there's that warns the Then, let's open that one here. This is then the normal A6. There you can see the liftback opening, so it kind of is the A6 and being electric. And liters setup, you can still store a charging right side you can see here it raises a little soon more also about the can also fold down the seats split, and then when we have where the Estate would have a just have a little bit more air part than here. But you can see America market, this here it will be sold or not, is yet if you state in the comments, maybe if you're from USA or from Canada and you say like you maybe Audi will think about this and I would a look at the Estate right now just to compare it actually. Let's see if there are any differences here with the Estate model and also with the Ruler of Truth. So, I just measured also the Sportback model, it was about a meter in width, it's the same here, like 40 inches. And it was 1 meters and 5 in length, and yeah, this one is slightly longer with 1 meters and 8 or then 43 inches, so like an inch longer than here, but this has more to do with the building style in the very rear. You can see in the height, it's just easier accessible right here, like about 70 centimeters or 27 inches, that's also the same in the Sportback. It's just that, especially little bit better access, but it doesn't make too much of a difference, just that you have a little bit more height than You can also fold the seats right here. There we go. So, both will do very good for the whole luggage setup. We also have a here, and it is 2.1 counts for all the for the all-wheel rear wheel drive models. And here you can see again the difference, the base model Black package and here the S model without a Black package. I really like the and here is the same blue color. I need to look it up again, it's like this, Malpelo Blue. So, it's Malpelo Blue here for the Sportback and also what we had with the Avant, just that here, once again, silhouette and the contrasting mirror, once real classic have to go for 21-inch wheels, by vehicles we have here be the base, you can for 21-inch wheels As for the suspension, base suspension, then adaptive air suspension, the S model here, then and also gets a sportier S-trim. By the way, the Sportback will be a little bit more efficient, 0.21 the best for the whole Volkswagen group overall so far, and 0.24 for the Estate, for the Avant. Not sure if that will really reduce the range significantly, but especially when you drive a little bit fast on the Autobahn, I think we will feel some effects, so that might be a reason to go for the Sportback. Yeah, the Avant that styling or that in the rear, and this Gray Avant, maybe once again, with the a lot of black the vehicle, and see these ones in So, which color would you go for from this studio setup here? Tell me in the comments. I think styling-wise, this one probably would be my favorite Sportback And as for the battery size, there will be later on entry-level battery at 79 kilowatt-hours net. Starting, however, battery and most the bigger battery, with this vehicle, And then the question is, what real-world range can On the same platform, we recently had the Audi Q6 e-tron. There we had some like 20 kilowatt-hours on 100 kilometers, so like three miles per kilowatt-hour. And that would mean a rearward range of 500 kilometers or 300 miles, like in a, and, you know, low estimation. However, since these here have now the flat value, they will also be better in the efficiency than the SUV. So, I guess that good temperatures especially the do more than 500 Of course, we always estimation figures and don't try to exaggerate. We only try to give when we have really The official figure even goes to like 700 kilometers or something, but when we can drive this one will keep you updated with all of that. Just like in the Porsche Taygan, the Audi e-tron GT, the Porsche Macan, the Audi Q6 e-tron, also here the A6 e-tron models use the 800 volt charging infrastructure or architecture. And that means from 10% to 80%, you can charge in 21 minutes with a 270 kilowatt DC peak. And there it is, DC charging. And yeah, you have seen this by the Q6 e-Tron very famous charging flap, meanwhile. So, the logic behind that one is that it opens here put in the cable, you it automatically you leave it open, one or two minutes you want to close it yourself, you have and then the electric There we go. Yeah, you might have been maybe a manual charging flap or make that maybe an option I personally prefer the manual charging flaps. It's just, you know, easier and nothing can break and so on because this also always takes a while. I think you can argue pro and con with that, but it's definitely always a funny feature to show off and it's also very famous in our vertical format like on YouTube Shorts, Instagram, TikTok, and Facebook in the reels. If you haven't format, definitely This electric charging the other side here Same mechanism, yeah, takes again a this case, only the AC charging, but it's on both sides, definitely, to just be more flexible from which side you access the charging station or wall box. By the way, you merchandise out shirt here, we logo shirt, a cap, and fake exhaust in the video description and the pinned comment, video you'll find Then here to the frunk of the vehicle, you may remember it from the can also swipe here and make a swiping gesture in the front and then It's good that you not only have to go and open it from the inside and yeah, finally also an Audi EV with a frunk. Well, the Q6 e-tron also had one now, probably like with sharing this platform together with the Porsche and Porsche has this, you know, really long background of frunks and yeah, this is definitely suitable at least for a charging you don't have to you know, when of that and you Interesting, by the like an additional dampening measure, so then you maybe hear less, you know, vibrations that is created from the Usually, we just see engine models, they have also paid the NVH, so noise, Of course, when see more about that low CD value, usually for less noise on We keep you updated with that. If you want to open kick mechanism, by When you get you now have this you exactly know where to do the foot kick and then even know it from when you have this and then sometimes and there and there now, you exactly know where to do that. So, yeah, that's a good feature. There we go. We can also close it that way, and I have to, you know, be away from the car that it really closes. So, if I would being said that it Let's just try it, you know. Here, shows me again where I have to swipe. There we go. Now, let's see if I can kill myself with this vehicle. Because you know also that sometimes happens. I'm not dying. That's good. Yeah, I think now I was too late actually but I think that's a very it happened to me quite often, you know, that I was packing some things here in the trunk and then you were at the sensor here with your feet and suddenly the trunk was closing on you and that was pretty painful. So, I think very good is actually, you know, There we go. And then when you move away, then it does really close. Here we go. If I close the camera mirrors That looks really funny, doesn't it? This is the key fob, matte black, but it's quite good. Then you can see here the door handles. They don't come towards you or something, but you can grab in and you don't have any physical feedback there. They now also offer a soft close here. There we go. But the door closing sound needs to be tested anyway. And, yeah, because there's the motor, it's a little But, yeah, when you slam it really, it's a good sound. Let's try the rear. It sounds even there we go, soft Then, inside of the doors, here, there's, you know, rather hardpack on have different decor This is maybe not my favorite one, but pretty have a fabric of the doors here with some nice stitching, optional sound system, 20 you can already see the screen then here for the it has a better placement now. So, before it was like here, now it has moved up, so you can better see that, but you can still go for classic ones. Then here, the inside covered with some just some rubber S-line interior package Then, you also have S-line steering wheel, This is also the It has a different surface that you can actually differentiate that. Soon, I'll also make alive, but you can it's like one black the fabric seats, has a very nice cushion here. So, in this case, the whole animal-free setup here in this gray Then, this cockpit overview here consists of 12-inch instruments, 14.5-inch infotainment an 11-inch passenger Yeah, the sense of that, I always say it, I don't see it. A passenger would own smartphone, and then you have otherwise, there's a This decor styling here is not my favorite one, honestly, but I do like the fabric here on the lower part. That looks quite fancy. Then, with 189 or 6 foot 2, there's still enough headroom left above my head, so that's actually quite good. They are more spacious vehicles, but for tall adults as well, and, yeah, I mean, due to the lower seating position, if you compare it to the Q6 e-tron, it conveys a little bit more driving fun, definitely. You still have a haptical interface here for in the front part, two USB-C chargers, this package, and the smartphone is, like, hidden here charging pad, not an ideal solution, yeah, has Yeah, maybe they should have thought of And then here, driving. Cupholders There are more beautiful hands than mine. No, it's fine, it's fine. She will also want to take a rest for a while. Then, here, the armrest, you can slide it open. At the moment, this is like a prototype car, so it emergency off switches, but, of course, you have Driver POV. Here, we can also switch the views of the digital yeah, they are actually quite nice and very nice And then, we also have a head-up display. There we go. Isn't catching that well on camera, but yeah, for real eyes, it's okay. And when I look over here to the real infotainment system, the climate unit is always to be controlled here in the screen in the lower part. You know, I do prefer physical dials. At least, they always stay in this kind of position, Android Automotive-based, you can still connect Apple CarPlay, but it's a completely new So, this is majorly changed in the drive select. Here, when you click through the modes, you can also then switch the air suspension if you have that. In the efficiency mode it goes, by the lower to be even more efficient. Now, you also maybe the air suspension So, yeah, I'm looking forward if this one is now than, for example, in the Q4 e-tron where it And now, Lea is showing you the electrochrome roof. At the moment, everything is open. But here, this is the you can either have pattern, but I don't that other than the But more reason is then when you completely either open or close it, and it has this layer effect, so it closes like this. Lea, yeah, Lea, Lea, Lea effect, yeah. And when you open it again, it goes like this. But I also have to just make one button another one is closed because I think, is nice for showing video or for reels or you are a car click open and one Rear seats. Honestly, it's giving me a little bit of the EQS vibes. Look at that. I mean, it's an almost 5-meter-long car and it does fit for tall barely not too much also see how low in the way? Like So, I feel a little bit lost in here in the rear, honestly. It feels like... Why are my knees so high? It almost feels like I would be like, you know, but then headroom That's the Sportback version here. So, I think the bench is too low. That's probably the thing, right? Isn't it? Isofix on the outsides each. You can slide these covers open. Then here. Cup holders are adaptive and you can also fold this ski hatch here, Middle console but it's not powered Top Tether at the big middle tunnel or And let's take a from the inside, here, rather hard also no covering on So, expected a little bit more here. Interesting also, the Avant has more rear and also the So, like fixed roof Sportback versus like an inch more centimeter here with So, this is then the most headroom setup here and the least headroom setup would be Sportback with fixed roofiu It still fitted for me here definitely more Some of you might know I grew up with pets or were always family member or even children That's why I care about also animal-free interiors, and the thing is I'm really happy that Audi now offers a solution. Finally, they were late to that, but really appreciate it. However, I think the BMW approach is a little bit better because they offer high-grade leatherette whereas Audi just and some like I also like it, and it also but especially, for American market, people slick surface here to wipe then BMW offers the is just better than the more breathable and animal-friendly, and Audi or animal skin, you high-grade leatherette the standard have to switch If you like this panoramic roof feature here, by the way, it's not only available for the Avant but also Yeah, and as I said earlier, the Avant at the moment not planned for the North American market unless you really protest against this in the comment and say, Audi, hey, We've seen it quite often, you know, that you say, hey, we also want the Estates in the US. So, yeah, feel comments and then The thing is that here the S6 e-tron, it will basically with this size or with this length against both of the German competitors like the Mercedes EQE and EQS at the same time and also the i5 So, in this approach here, they basically have one vehicle for kind of both segments at the same time. So, it's very interesting what happens with you can now check out how the competition