You should be sleeping. Tomorrow's a long march. Thirty miles if it don't piss on us. I can't sleep. I don't like the taste. Do you like the taste? I don't see what all the fuss is about. Why do men love it so much? It gives some men courage. Does it give you courage? Ah... You don't drink it for the flavor to be honest. What? How do you sleep? Same as most men, I think. But... You've seen things. Horrible things. Aye. I've seen some pretty things too, but... ...not really so many. How do you sleep when you... ...when you have those things in your head? You didn't see that. I've made damn sure-- I close my eyes and I see them up there. All of them... ...standing there. Joffrey. The queen. And... And my sister. You know... We've got something in common, me and you. You know that. I must have been... ...a couple of years older than you. Saw my brother stabbed through the heart. Right on our doorstep. You want much of a villain what skewered him. Willem, the lad's name was. He ran off before anyone could spit. I just stood there... ...watching my brother die. Here's the funny part. I can't picture my brother's face anymore. But Willem. Oh, he was a nice looking boy. Your good white teeth. Blue eyes. One of those dimpled chins all the girls like. I would think about him when I was working. When I was drinking. When I was having a shit! You can shit later, there's people coming. It got to the point... ...where I would say his name every night before I went to bed. Willem. Joffrey. Willem. Cersei. Willem. Walder Frey. A prayer almost. Well, one day. Willem came riding back into town. I buried an axe so deep into Willem's skull I had to buried him with it. someday i'm gonna put a sword through your eye i can't sleep until i say the names the only the ones i'm going to kill it's as when i found you i thought you'd been already and you had bugs all over here i was gonna give you a proper oh nearly [ __ ] myself i reckoned you were gonna die by the time i now i reckon you died a dozen more times over the hey we come across my brother maybe we remember me yeah you do you're even [ __ ] if you were here right now what would you do doesn't matter that's not you know he's coming for you you've always known and tell them to shut the [ __ go on get it over with the list get on with it i'm almost done only one name left go on the hound [ __ ] hall you're doing it wrong you need to otherwise it's going to get infected and faster i know you don't like fire but it'll only take a second it finally fear when i saw it in you you're afraid of fire when beric sword went up in flames and i know i do there's a mountain i heard crush your face to the fire like shut up about everything bag of silver anywhere the lannister's old sway which is everywhere between where i'm as stupid as that hog you stuck back in the no rewards worth this much trouble there's a reason you're still here there's a reason i'm a big [ __ ] and god's on dummy you yeah i've heard that before well maybe he was right i don't know much about there's plenty of pious sons of [ __ ] who think even know their real names maybe it is the seven of light or maybe they're all the same [ __ is that there's something greater than us and you didn't know me back in my time you don't know the things i've done i've heard stories if the gods are real why am they punish me they have you say your brother gave you that sword brother gave me this it was just like you said a while back pressed me why i thought i stole one of his toys i the pain was bad smell was worse but the worst thing was that my father who protected him told everyone my bedding caught fire you think you're on your own let me wash it out and help you sew it up at least tell me about the hound left him to die he was on her list he was not on her list anymore she had taken him i remember when the players came to my village i saw the painted faces the costumes listened died in each other's arms i ran off and you're very good my final speech which i always like to be the it would all just be farting belching and the queen loves her son more than anything and he was taken from her before she she would be angry she would want to kill the what's your name mercy you have very expressive eyes mercy wonderful i have to go my father's waiting for me how do you think it ended for them was death girl died in a father's arms both of them i'd say they were starving and rather he ended it for both of them doesn't what the hell are you doing clegane burying the dead you knew these people i doubt what do you want what do i want this is my land i'm standing on it it's my land we were forgive my father he was our cottage burned down while he he's never been the same not really nope so we ask the father to judge us with mercy so we may feed ourselves and all who come courage in these days of strife and turmoil we keep it from the clutches of depravity you're [ __ ] i don't remember the rest i'm sorry you're dead you deserve better of you the butcher's boy you wrote i know you you're the hound or our new friend samayal what brings you so far north what are you doing up here just keeping the heard stannis defeated at the blackwater rob stark stuck with your brother meaning no offense at what he does but torture torture you should come with us it's kind they've always more daughters always something if you know in between here in king's landing could do i'm not going to king's landing think about these are the king's colors no one's standing in your king's guard plegain we must beat them back [ __ ] the king's guard [ __ ] the city [ __ ] the king i heard that joffrey's dog a tuck tail i didn't believe it but here you are here i am bring me one of those chickens you got but we're the king's men so you got money not a we'll trade you one of our little chickens you're a talker listening to talkers makes me thirsty [ __ ] the water bring me wine why do men love you so much it gives some get you some iced milk and a nice bowl you're on the wrong side of the wall i and hungry i think i'll take two chickens don't seem to understand the situation come pouring out your [ __ ] mouth i'm gonna you lived your life for the king you're people coming morning morning i like a sword are we getting close to the are you a knight no but you does it have a name oathkeeper seven blessings brienne of who wants something let's fancy sword you got there where'd he get it i've been looking at lannister gold all my life go on brienne our [ __ ] tarth jamie lannister gave me the sword the bloody the old i don't care what you swore oh yeah you you're not a good listener valerian steel i always i'll take you to safety safety where the [ __ ] her father's dead her brother's dead winterfell is you don't know that by now you're and that's what you're doing watching you are late boy you will be here at midday who are now we will begin the dance remember child this is not the dance of the styles is the braavos dance the water dance it what ways to die no one's going to kill me you to fight it's not fighting it's water dancing who taught you that shite the syria pharrell the first thought to see lord and you will be speaking to me greasier than joffrey's [ __ ] you're not here you're with your trouble if you're more trouble for you just so or as quiet as a shadow your friend's dead a merentrance knot you're still here big [ __ ] saved you i don't need saving thought you were dead not i was only trying to protect her you and me bros she's alive arya where winterfell who's protecting her if you're here the only one that needs protecting you won't be me no not you you're a real and you're needing to pray to there is only one god and his name is death and you're gonna die unless there's a mace killed by a woman i bet you like that go on go after her she'll help you going hand alone you won't last a day you remember where the heart is that's where the heart is that's how you kill a man [ __ ] it i'm ready go on girl another name off i cut down your butcher's boy the ginger he was begging for mercy please sir please the butcher's boy very fast my friend he was 12 you slung him over your horse like he was bed all over my horse saddle and your sister i beg pardon sir i should have come to you after to thank a dog doesn't need courage to chase off no it gives me joy to kill people spare winterfell never killed a man it was his duty he killing's the sweetest thing there is why are you things i do someday when you're queen and i'm you're pretty sister i should have taken her i should have [ __ ] her bloody do i have to beg him do it do it do it what did you do get your horse saddle you told me us i took us in he's a good man his daughter makes you don't know that i do know it he's weak dead come winter dead men don't need silver there's plenty worse than me i how many stars they got to kill me kill me kill me kill me look at me stannis is a killer the lannisters are killers your father was a killer your brother is a killer your sons will be so you better get used to looking at them never too late to stop robbing people to never too late to come back lady crane what's left for you here you wouldn't all i can do with time i've got left is bring a espos is east and westeros is west but nobody does it's where all the maps stop farewell go home girl fire will get her one of it doesn't matter she's dead then you'll i'm going to kill her lady was it there i've been after it all my life it's all you want to be like me you come with me you die here someday i'm gonna put a sword through sandal thank you