And check out this fun fact. It blew my mind. In the whole territory of Greenland there are only four traffic lights in the whole island. Just now a man even offered us seal claws as a souvenir. They sell you seal claws, bear claws, a street trade. Look how peculiar it is. Welcome, welcome to Greenland! Wow, what a magical, mysterious territory! I'm just landing and I'm already speechless. This is simply stunning. Snow everywhere. See in the little planes that one has to get here. Greenland, known as the emptiest territory in the world, with a population of only fifty-nine,zero people at the date he recorded this, population density of zero.two inhabitants per square kilometer, the territory with more ice on the planet only behind Antarctica, which is inhabited by humans only in its periphery, as more than eighty% of the two million square kilometers is entirely white, is ice, is snow. We are arriving at the town of Kangerlussuaq. We are heading towards Nuuk, which is the capital of this territory. Extremely excited to be here, we have a tremendous adventure ahead of us. So let's freeze our way through Greenland. How cool to be able to say that, what a dream, to be able to be in this territory! Let's give it Polo Borgo, first steps here and see, they already warn us of some animal that is not, I do not know what that is. What are those horns? A snow buffalo. Watch out for the buffalo. We're arriving at the airport and we notice that they sell bear claw necklaces as souvenirs. Oh, you bastard! Well, first things first, the million dollar question Is Greenland a country? Well, clearly it is a territory with its own language, its own customs, culture. But politically it is not an independent country. In fact, they are part of Denmark. Eighty-nine percent of the people here identify themselves as Inuit, who are the ones who originally came to the territory. Then came the Vikings, a very long history and the remaining eleven% identify themselves as Danish or other nationalities that have arrived here. The currency used is the Danish krone and despite being part of the kingdom of Denmark, Greenland is not considered part of the European Union. So yes, politically they are not a country, but culturally of course they are. And with customs as coarse as they are complicated. Life is not the capital of Greenland, it is obviously much busier. There are many cars, paved streets, buildings, stores. Currently this city has a population of nineteen,zero people and check this very curious fact that blew my mind. In the entire territory of Greenland there are only four traffic lights on the world's largest island. There are only four lights that control traffic, two of which are within sight at the moment. This is like the main street of Nuuk, which is the busiest and this is one traffic light over there, another one going around this bend, another one and in a tunnel I am told is number four, this one in particular, I am told is the busiest, it even has a crosswalk and a bus stop, which brings us to what public transport is like in Greenland. Well of course, there are no trains, no subway, no cable car, but there are several bus routes to board. It is not cheap at all. It currently costs twenty kroner. Each bus ticket that translates to just over twelve EUR, fifty EUR on board. And yes, life in general in Greenland is not cheap. In fact, compared to many territories, even European, living here is quite expensive. We can see here behind me one of the big chains of mini supermarkets called akikki I am told these are opening. Many are like the Greenlandic Oxxo and in Nuuk there are many supermarkets, but in other cities around the territory it is very usual that there is only one small store per population, unless you look at the street trade in Nuuk. See, here they sell jackets, but they don't sell sunglasses, which are very important to avoid getting burned by the snow. Here my brother sells a lot of used stuff. See here my brother even sells an action camera so you don't miss anything. See here my brother sells shrimp shrimp today this place is bigger, check here time he sells you here your. What is this? See here my brother sells you gloves, sells you books about polar bears, batteries and the helmet for the motorcycle sells here my brother deerskin. Ok, for the mats to keep you warm. Orale, how crazy. Check this out. A snow scooter. Orale, they even sell playstation games or movies. Let's see, obviously not like everywhere else in the world. Of course there is street commerce, but I am curious about the whole context, how they put their things on cardboard so they don't get wet in the snow. Just now a man offered us even seal claws, as a souvenir. They sell you seal claws, bear claws, a street commerce. Look how peculiar it is. I was struck by how they leave the dogs tied up like that while people go to the supermarket to do their shopping, whatever. And yes, they are dogs that tolerate the cold very well. This dog is made for the snow, ready for a few. What a disturbing fact. Here they are. Number one, did you know that in Greenland you can buy long guns completely legally without even needing an ID? It's very common to run into contests like this one, where they sell you hunting rifles, because indeed, hunting is an extremely important trade and leisure activity. In theory you have to be eighteen years old to buy a rifle, but in Greenland it's very common, that it's all about if the guy in the store knows you, if he knows your family, if he knows that you are trustworthy. So in small towns it is common to see young men with long guns walking around hunting. We all go for a few beers and shoot a few animals. However, despite the fact that it is very easy to buy a gun, the crime rate is quite low. From what I am told, street robbery and murder are not common, and this is because since there are so few people, there would be very little chance of escaping the law. Disturbing fact number two Greenland is one of the territories with the highest rate of alcoholism in its population. This is simply because there are months when there is so little light that people become depressed and have nothing left to do but drink. After getting off work at the fishing center, whatever it is, it's very common. Let's go drink, let's get all the way back at the local bar. And third disturbing fact and this one is very sad. Greenland is the territory with the highest suicide rate in its population, being eighty suicides per year per one hundred,zero population. Let's see, clearly there are not even one hundred,zero inhabitants, but that is how the rate is measured. So it is very high. And this is also due to the lack of activities, the lack of people. Of movement and light in a large part of the year. The population, especially young people, tends to get depressed and since there are not really many psychologists, it is not very normalized to express your problems. Many choose to take their own lives, to commit suicide, giving this territory the highest number of suicides on the planet. Does it deserve it? Of course it does. What a sad, shocking and, above all, disturbing fact. Now, if we talk about shopping centers, mall's, there is only one in all Greenland and it is this one here that is called Nuuk Center, the only closed mall that exists. Inside the mall we have one of the few escalators in the whole territory, toy stores, clothing, technology restaurants, yes it is interesting. The mall is small, but complete. There is also only one establishment in the whole territory: a movie theater. This is the one I took out behind me, in which in fact there is only one room to show movies and they tell me that only if the new movies are very popular they arrive on time, but more specific movies can take weeks or even months for people to see them. I asked, for example, if there is McDonald's, Kentucky and Subway, international food companies, and they tell me no, there is not a single one in all of Greenland, especially since there are very few people and it would probably not be successful with the population anyway. If we talk about Internet and telephony in Greenland, this is very complicated and very expensive. There is only one phone company called Tusas, and to get a SIM card you have to come to the post office and people pay for monthly plans of twenty gigabytes the amount of five hundred kroner, something like seventy EUR, OLV very expensive, but of course, I did not have to buy it directly here because I bought it from home using it. HolaFly, here is a mention of our sponsor for this video. Thank you HolaFly for sponsoring us. HolaFly is a great service that I have already mentioned that I use in my travels in which you can buy data to practice around the world, so I found a plan for Greenland, with that I tell you enough. What is very convenient is that it works through e-sim of electronic Sims. So you don't have to keep switching back and forth with the stick. No, no, no, no, easy. You activate everything with a QR code very quickly and in many territories they even offer unlimited data plans, so it's very convenient. We have a special channel code with which you can get five% discount on purchases and recharges. I leave the link below in the description. Thank you. HolaFly Happy for sponsoring this video and other than that it's a great service, I use it naturally. Well let's move on. One thing that is very striking about the villages in Greenland is how colorful the houses are. They give you very beautiful scenery, very photogenic, very movie-like. And this, the fact that the Greenlandic villages are so colorful, has a very peculiar explanation and it is due to the fact that until around the sixties most of the population did not know how to read. You see, the kingdom of Denmark wanted to establish a development in these lands, so they began to install hospitals, schools, commerce. But since most of the inhabitants could not read, they could not put signs indicating what was in each building, so they started to establish official colors, being for example yellow for hospitals, red for stores, black for police, green for infrastructure offices and blue, places related to the fish market. These colors are no longer officially respected today, but rather people paint their houses whatever color they like, but how about something very beautiful and very representative of Greenland? It was born out of people not knowing how to read. We were invited to see a local house. Let's see, this is really in a city people in the city usually live in apartments and very modern. It had a washing machine, dishwasher, floor heating, an incredible view. What is very Greenlandic is that on the balcony they have fish drying because it's part of their local national dishes. So yes, today they have them drying for months to be able to eat daily. Very nice house. The rent for such an apartment, I repeat, in a city is around six thousand kronor, about nine hundred to one thousand dollars. But I repeat, this is in the city. If you want to see what a house in a smaller, smaller town is like, stay tuned because we are going to be traveling to more places in Greenland. It's already sixteen:zero in the afternoon, the light is starting to fade and you start to notice how the streets are getting emptier and emptier. And this is how these people live for many months, with only four or five hours of daylight a day. And the further north you go, the less hours there are towns that don't see the sun twenty-four hours a day. And logically this is reversed in the summer, the days are longer, yes, as in every territory, far north of the planet. Light is an extremely valuable resource that in other countries we take for granted. We are learning that apparently handball is an extremely popular sport in Greenland. Oh, what chaos! The Greenland winds were already blowing me around, as the ground is ice. So, well, I was telling you, we just learned that handball is extremely important in Greenland. Just now we had the chance to see a game at the community center between Greenland and Norway. It was still very nice because it was the first time that the women's national team qualified for that championship. None of the players are really professionals, they all do it for the love of the sport and today they are heroines, they are local idols. Even though they suffered a big loss, they beat them by more than thirty points. The truth is that it was very nice, very touching to see the whole community there united, the people with their flags, every goal they scored was applauded a lot and at the end they all left very happy, applauding a lot. Yes, it was very moving to see it. You can see the strong feeling that people have for Greenland, for their land. eleven:zero and the sun is just starting to rise. Wow, the sunrises here are beautiful. See those reddish purple hues in a magazine, a nature documentary happening before my eyes. It's so funny how people leave their clothes out to dry and say it works, it dries. I wouldn't have guessed that. I thought the sun was paramount for your clothes to stay dry. I know that Greenland boasts one of the cleanest water sources in the world and in fact right here this sign indicates that the lake that is here is one of the largest sources of water for drinking and for supplying the population. And it is very crazy. But let's see, right now in this season it is impossible to see the lake because everything is frozen, everything is full of snow. Nevertheless, it is very interesting. The water flow doesn't stop because they have a pipe system that is placed five meters underground, so no matter how cold it gets and the ice layer gets very, very thick, it shouldn't exceed maybe a meter, meter and a half, two meters? How about a hard infrastructure and they have to maintain it so it's not freezing? Because people could literally run out of water. Wow, I'm just amazed. It's also scary to think that if we didn't know that this is where the lake is, we could walk out there. And how about you run into a sheet of ice that's not that fat? No matter how much you scream, no one will hear you. No? How beautiful and how scary. At the same time our guide is explaining to us that in case you fall through the ice sometime in your life, what you have to do is this is what you're going to do? Your body is going to fall and your arms are going to hopefully grab on to a little bit thicker ice. So there you have it. Look, if you ever find yourself in a situation where you are falling on thin ice, thin ice, spread your arms out like a bird and pray, hope that you can survive. Let's look around and realize that there is not a single tree. This is because there are no natural trees in the territory. All the forests that one can find have been made by humans. The Earth has been intervened, but naturally in the land of ice they do not exist. In the same way, I want to take advantage of this great white scenario to talk about the physical appearance of the Inuit, the locals of Greenland. I find it very interesting that they are politically European people, geographically North American, and that their appearance could be mistaken for that of a person from Asia because of their slanted eyes. The reason their eyes are like that is human evolution. You see, we are all exposed to walking for hours in such white, ice-filled, snow-filled scenery, to being blinded by the reflection of the sun. Therefore, the body has developed over the centuries a layer of skin over your eyes, tearing them so that less light enters them to reduce the risk. It is also believed that the inventors of sunglasses are the Inuit. They used to make them out of wood, with animal bones, leaving only a line to see what is in front of you. Oh and while we are on this subject, let's talk about the term Eskimo, which is often used a lot and in fact is believed to be a synonym for an Inuit person, you see the word Eskimo is a little sensitive and you have to try not to use it too much, because while many might not care and give them entirely the same, for many it can be an offensive term, because it means those who eat raw meat, so it does have a derogatory connotation towards the Eskimos, those who devour raw meat. So yes, if someday you get to know a person of this ethnicity, the most appropriate term is Inuit and Eskimo. It is to be avoided, because while some might not care and it might not matter at all to others, it could seriously offend them. Walking through the snow, one suddenly comes across these huge light installations that it is quite mind-boggling to think that over eighty-five% of the electrical energy used here comes from hydroelectric power sources. This is transported by subway cables here and distributed to the German villages. It's really cool. A big round of applause here for our Dutch drone buddies. And well, that's how we conclude with this video passage through Greenland, the emptiest territory on planet Earth. What an adventure, how cool to be here and as always a pleasure, a delight, an honor to be able to share it with all of you. Stay tuned to the channel, of course more and more videos are coming. We will cover various aspects of the culture, the traditions of this territory, their beliefs so you don't miss them. Thank you for joining me and see you as always, as you know, in a few days with a new video. Good bye.