Good morning everyone. Today we will talk simple that are part of our childhood are two classic recipes from the French potato puree. Let's start with the two ways to make it: and the second is with chicken. case we will use a veal rump to give a wink to our Milanese cutlet. Clearly using a veal rump the bones and clean it. simple: you just then the latter basically itself. Clearly we'll keep aside a veal sauce or another veal preparation. We have to remove the extra fat without forgetting the outside part, the rind, this part here, we should clean it at the same time. If you notice, and it can be removed in a very simple way without Another interesting nerve here. It must be because when cooked and therefore the rack, instead and flat, would bulge. So let's remove this part here, only leaving Once we boned and cleaned it, Let's try to keep it at a Once all the slices are ready, we're beating them transparent film, or baking paper Something important to do to prevent the meat sheet is to wet lightly with a little water. Let's place the slice, some water. I'm turning it around on the inside and then I am beating gently. You always have to beat centrally and beat outwardly, inwardly, left and right to stretch and widen the slice. As for the thickness, we can always keep it around 0.2 0.4 cm. the fine cut of the meat, close it simply like however, it would my idea is that the meat is simply a wrapper to then place the baked ham Once prepared and placed the slices aside, very important for the cordon bleu: baked ham. a baked ham, a Jambon Blanc de Paris because it is made in Paris, precisely in the 11th arrondissement, last producers of baked ham in Paris. before using the slicer, clearly, I'm removing the rind. I always prefer with a serrated knife because I can enter it in a much we are sure that it will not we will use the the veal scraps in this case and we are adding them in end, to give our veal fond some more aroma. We're slicing our ham with a slicer, not too thin because we want to maintain a consistency in the mouth. about this product is exactly Once our ham is sliced, let's move on to the third fundamental In this case we're using 16 months, because it lactic and more delicate. some emmenthal, cheese that obviously in Italy that can be easily We're cutting our cheese into slices that are not too we will also keep is where all of the aromatic palette The cheese, as it cooks, will clearly melt, the crust instead will become just a little softer is identical in Italy when you add the the end of cooking melted, they will only they will have added our minestrone. All of our elements to make a cordon bleu are ready: the slices of veal, the baked ham and the Comte. Now we can assemble our cordon bleu. Let's take our veal slices and cover them with baked ham, being careful to leave half a centimeter free between the then seal tightly. Let's add the cheese Once stuffed like a wallet, we're placing it on a tray the other slices. Last stage before cooking is the breading, a classic English breading, meaning flour, eggs and breadcrumbs, which in this case is some panko, Japanese breadcrumbs that is slightly thicker. Salt it, salt generously. The important thing is that it becomes liquid incorporates well So, let's sprinkle the flour everywhere. Eggs and breadcrumbs. In this case we will make a simple the passage in the breadcrumbs The idea is to make to be able to taste more directly our veal and our stuffing. After the decorative cut, in the fridge to rest This stage is very important to allow our breading to to our cordon bleu. We told about the cordon bleu, now only the potato puree a potato puree is made with potatoes cooked if necessary, dry the potatoes will be cooked in salt at 160 to Once they are cooked, is completely dry, but also that a result we will not peel them simply, but we will make center, we will open them in with a spoon we will take the pulp out. The idea of cooking to use the moisture and the and concentrate their taste. The choice of cooking is not so even if we were to is a little more watery, with salt the result will still be excellent. And now let's This is the most maybe could make a lot of people through a sieve vegetable mill? Just a sieve and you'll find by using the sieve you'll obtain Since we're not satisfied, that we have already we'll give it one more go. simply to obtain a without it being floury, We're collecting the pulp The pulp is ready, to the most important Two options: butter only, Robuchon-style, I prefer to make it with a hint of milk and lots of butter. Let's slightly dilute our pulp with a little hot milk. very little. The idea is only to facilitate the amalgamation We can already see that Let's incorporate we used for the bechamel and we're adding a little at a Temperature Let's avoid boiling our butter because by boiling making our puree sour. Let's move on and avoid hitting a The important thing is, and fine tune it during the realization to see if butter or milk to get to the ideal consistency. The proportion is two-thirds of the weight of the potatoes The consistency is right, now let's salt. So, a pinch of salt and I would say it's done. if we don't use immediately, more tufts of butter here and there and we're covering it with a disc of baking paper to prevent it from drying out Don't forget that If puree in the fridge, the once you take it don't make the because once the butter heats up, it will become watery puree. Our puree keep it heated. Let's We will cook our cordon bleu in a pan with oil and butter and two must not cover be approximately two-thirds of the thickness of the slice. We we're adding the butter. We can't think of frying at 180degC because if we had to fry at 160-180degC with butter, the butter would be burnt. Once our butter start bubbling, let's add Here, as well, we're playing raising and lowering. is that our butter and our oil always bubble but cover our cordon bleu. This is for me the heart of French but doesn't burn. Now halfway through cooking Here we are, almost. Once cooked, we're placing them on a tray with absorbent paper. The interesting thing that they are also not machine made and here already some cheese is let's move on to the plating. Let's take a nice generous spoonful placing it in the and arranging our cordon bleu around it. Let's take a spoon, dip it in cold our potato puree. And we'll finish it with a spoonful of veal sauce. When cut, it stays We have seen together this great classic of the French cuisine repertoire, Enjoy making it at home with your tasty that everyone will be pleased. In the cover story, Squisita there is of the whole Brigade, Greetings to all friends of