(tone jingles) - [Narrator] Every year and like the latest yearly sports game, but there are those certain games that feel like they have something a little bit different going on. Some games that really have some ambition, be it with graphics, storytelling, revolutionary, new gameplay These are the games that stand out, and the ones we look forward So today we're just and break down 10 Starting off at number 10, This game has been in and I'll be totally honest, we have put it on a lot of but we've always just kind It's a Chinese mythology, dark soulsy action, adventure style game with seemingly really good graphics. We've seen a lot from this game so far. Like I mentioned like the and presentation, but also boss battles with cool animations, a lot of really fun attacks The main character uses some larger kind of open areas for but ultimately this does to being a challenging There's gonna be some different weapon types, but at least with the gameplay I've seen, this does look like this is But what's really ambitious or the souls like stuff. We've seen a lot of games innovate on that genre before, right? With &quot;Black Myth Wukong&quot;, most interesting thing about it is that it's based on the Chinese novel, &quot;Journey to the West&quot;. Something that not everybody knows about, but if you're getting into like, you know, historic literature 101, Journey to the West was wildly influential and is considered by many to be like one of the most of writing in China, and So what we really are is that they're not just of lore on the spot, or doing all this dense They have something to they have real legends You're playing as this monkey guy, yes, but he's based on Sun Wukong, one of the main characters For all that stuff, I think it's potentially really exciting. Maybe it'll get more I feel like not enough But that's just me, let's move on to number nine, Hideo Kojima's next project &quot;OD&quot;. Now, as you probably know, Hideo Kajima and Kojima Productions are working on a bunch of things. The big thing of course is the sequel to &quot;Death Stranding 2&quot;. &quot;Death Stranding 2&quot; is you know, the next &quot;Death Stranding&quot;. So you're gonna have those characters, you're gonna have weird things, you're gonna be carrying So that's pretty expected. But we see the ambition as other project called OD. This is a Xbox collaboration and I know recently and you know, probably So, who knows? But as of right now, Kajima Productions is working Xbox and using to develop this experimental Now I'm in for this just knowing his passion and interest in horror and what we can really get from that. Anytime Hideo Kajima it's been really cool. So to have a game focused I definitely wanna see that. All we really have for this is a teaser, that shows really graphically in game or like rendered all that look incredibly impressive, but also almost unnervingly so. This trailer, when you watch it with like a good sound or something, the audio can actually be pretty frightening. It's a lot, it's pretty intense. So we're hoping that carries which Kojima has said with famous horror directors to work on, along with that, it kind of blending cinema and game. What does that mean? I don't know. Does it just mean there's Does it mean that there's or like real motion video in this? I don't know for sure, but I just like that &quot;OD&quot; and something that's It is a perfect example of Again, we don't know too much about it, but I'm hoping that we learn more soon. Next, over at number eight we have the &quot;Star Wars Knights of Now this one, you might not think it's that ambitious, right? It's honestly pretty safe. It's a remake of a RPG from BioWare. So it seems like a home run, right? Well I think for some Star Wars fans that really pay attention, this is more ambitious But first just history lesson. Star Wars Knights of the Old it was one of the best obsidian games and just a really cool take and it taking place well It kind of became the standard for a while and the remake was something to get off the ground If you follow the Game or anything else online, just gaming news, you know that the &quot;Knight was rumored forever. Then it was finally announced and then it kind of with the publishers and despite them changing hands a few times, insisting that the game But it's been years, and The most recent headline suggested that things but it might be some time. And partially I think is because, it's ambitious to remake I think it's a tough one to remake. It was like lightning in a bottle. It was BioWare at its peak. It was Star Wars in that weird time where it was before Disney, and there wasn't really too much going on and there were a bunch of Star Wars games, but like this one just really hit. Now years later, they're that just isn't quite around anymore. Star Wars feels differently now, you know, it has expanded quite a bit, and not in the old like expanded The fandom also is obviously very divided. I don't think that's It's been divided since the prequels, but this game has to somehow the classic &quot;BioWare&quot; game, which is a formula that's while also potentially out in Star Wars lore. Is this going to be Canon? Who knows? God knows really, but whatever it does, whether it's Canon or not, is its own unique slice of Star Wars. That was really cool but can they continue to keep that up? Does that stuff feel as cool when presented in full modern gameplay? I don't know, but I do think to try and give that a shot to remake one of the greatest games ever. It's the same thing with people wanting to remake &quot;Metal Gear Solid 1&quot;. I feel like it's just so So the &quot;Knights of the Old lies in just the fact that Good luck. Next, over at number seven, This is from the people behind the MMO RPG Black Desert Online, but this is like an open world RPG. It has been in the works for many years. We thought we were getting but it's been pushed, and this is ambitious just Graphically, it's got a lot but also the amount of stuff This game has been of the &quot;Witcher III&quot;, &quot;Assassins Creed&quot;, &quot;Ghosts of Tsushima&quot;, you name it. Just systems wise, gameplay wise, they are throwing a lot in here. Massive open worlds, all different types of traversal, weapon types, gorgeous graphics. Larger than life creatures, all these different gameplay systems, stealth, actual like RPG town stuff. There's so much that that it just seems like it's so much. You're riding and engaging you're riding horses, you're fighting against Mechanized enemies and technology. And the combat itself really intense and detailed. There's just a lot here, that's The last big gameplay trailer and it just showed that there They are incredibly ambitious, essentially like cramming like a bunch of stuff for hours and hours and hours in an MMO, but in something just more like We're really hoping this because on paper, and like everything it seems really awesome. Next, over at number six we This is the next big Marvel game, and this is ambitious in When they revealed the first showcasing the Nvidia graphics and how this was all in Engine, it almost feels like an where it's just crazy budget, wild set pieces and cut scenes, and you just don't see Like is it getting unsustainable to make these big crazy things? I don't know, but they're they got Marvel money. And with it being so bombastic and adventurous, Amy The person behind stuff like but also she kicked off &quot;Uncharted&quot;. So there's some of that DNA here, but they're doing it in World War II, Nazi occupied France with Captain America and a Black Panther. That is really cool. Like as a comics person, I am so into this idea from a storytelling and I just think there's a lot of potential. The trailer that we saw, even between this Black Panther, and Steve Rogers, Captain America. There's also apparently There's probably Shield and I'm just really excited to see how they take on the Marvel universe. You know, less of an MCU thing and more of like a But that's where the ambition is like when you just like it's like, okay, world War Black Panther and Captain America running around, big cinematic action. I don't know, that just sounds to me like a crazy fever dream, I don't know when we're And also it almost looks too I see this stuff and I still, maybe it's from like the early 2000s, seeing those gameplay trailers I see this and I go, But if it looks anywhere and it nails those ideas, like those bullet points I Next over at number five This is one I'm still a specifically because it's that releases a really incredible trailer, that seems like a great idea we don't know anything about. And that's it. I mean we've seen it with &quot;The Day Before&quot; that happened recently. But &quot;Blight Survival&quot; has been on our mind for a little while, because if it does turn out to actually be as cool as this trailer It is essentially a co-op with you and up to three other players, essentially running into this between two kingdoms. But not only is it like a, just a couple of player it's got like very realistic, and weighty physics based It almost looks like four honor combat where every swing matters. Everything is deliberate, and slow, and almost realistic as you're just like murdering The visuals are stunning. The environments are like really, like nothing we've really seen. It just looks very eerily realistic but also has a good And to incorporate that with multiplayer, it just seems like a We haven't heard too much but we do know that they're partnering with Behavior Interactive, the people behind &quot;Dead by Daylight&quot; to kind of get this thing published. So they're going to be helping out with resources and stuff like that. Maybe they saw this and really Maybe it is really ambitious. I don't know for sure, but this initial trailer is really sweet. Next, over at number four, we have a game called &quot;Everywhere&quot;, which I wanna start by Calling your game &quot;Everywhere&quot; I'd say almost too ambitious, but this game is very much where you can do a bunch of Now this game is significant, because it's from a new studio called Build a Rocket Boy set one of the original people behind &quot;The Grand Theft Auto&quot; Series. So with him having that name behind him, he was able to get funding and make this new creative project, which has been in the works We've gotten glimpses of it, we've gotten trailers almost two different different art styles, kind of a cartoony, more Fortnite type of thing. And then a more cinematic, realistic, gritty sci-fi, other aspect. That's all very confusing, but then you also throw in What they've been talking about with this. It's like the Sims mixed mixed with like Rust and Roblox because it's going to be like a community driven platform thing, but then also open world adventure. I don't know, it's still but there is a lot of if you wanna dig through it. The developers have showcased some of that user generated I really don't know what to make of it. But even if you don't or you don't really understand it, you can appreciate the ambitions because like I said, it's a lot of different genres they're trying to cook up here and come up with some kind If you ask me, I think to grow tired of this stuff at this point. We have our Minecrafts, our, you know, even like the things that are So for everywhere to really break through this type of crowded genre and find their own player base, it's gonna take a lot of work, I don't know. It's still probably a while but eh, keep it on your radar. Next, over at number The next game from Ken Levine, and &quot;Bios Shock Infinite&quot;. With &quot;Judas&quot;, he's changing gears with a bit of a smaller team, and going for kind of like but centered around kind where the game reacts to and you essentially having three artificial intelligence characters or hologram characters to And the more who you choose to side with, the game will react So not only from a story standpoint, but also from like a gameplay standpoint. That stuff sounds really cool. A lot of really cool ideas on paper, and developers have tried to make games that really to you know, different degrees of success. But those types of concepts where you're running you're shooting monsters with cool guns, you're also zapping them with hand powers and hacking and doing I do think it's potentially a good idea. There's still not a ton of information out there on this one. There are a couple of previews out there. One of course by yours truly, I did with the &quot;Friends but even still it's still in the works and we need to see more. But with Ken Levine at the helm, you gotta give him credit Those ideas may not always but at least he's trying &quot;Bios Shock&quot; was weird, quirky and unique. &quot;Bios Shock Infinite&quot; was and &quot;Judas&quot; is looking to be the same. Now down at number two we have &quot;Kingdom Come Deliverance 2&quot;. Now this one is getting by on Ambitious sort of because of the This is really the only but it's ambitious just because it's expanding with the first game, which the first game at launch, you know, for all its to a hardcore RPG experience, set in a historically accurate and realistic medieval bohemia. So they're continuing that way more detail, way more and the continuation of Henry's story. So with more budget that can more detailed NPCs, bigger towns and cities, actually living your life more you know, building on And that's all we really know, because it was just recently announced, it is coming this year, but we haven't gotten too But even just glancing for the steam page and stuff, it does sound like bigger and better. And the first game was really ambitious. So we're excited to see them really tap that potential this time around. Now down at number one This game is ambitious the first truly open world game. We are exploring a full actual world persistently online, I Now this comes from the people behind &quot;No Man's Sky&quot; which &quot;No Man's Sky&quot; had a lot of ambition and big words that launched, but it released and you it was a much simpler game that eventually became incredibly awesome. They put their money and they continuously updated that game. And now &quot;No Man's Sky&quot; and met the potential of Even though you know, a bill of goods at first, it wasn't that. At least now there's a happy ending. So with &quot;Light No Fire&quot;, they're going bigger and crazier with more fantastical elements, this massive world with a and more online play. And we're really excited We know they've been and we're hoping that it as vague as they still are at this point, we don't know everything about it. But hopefully they've learned which did turn out to be incredible. So if this is anything as I am definitely interested. But those are 10 upcoming ambitious games that we wanted to talk about. So don't let your hype but you know, we can just be So I wanna know what game what you're looking forward to. Is it something on this list? Is it something not on this list? Definitely let us know if it's something worth Maybe we'll make another list like this. Just hit us up. But if you like talking and especially this extra long video, click the like buttons is all we would appreciate that. Thank you. But as always, thanks for watching and we'll see you guys next time.