(singing) Welcome to our house. (singing) Show me what you do now. (singing) Then you have to go oh wow. - Wow. Welcome to our house tour. We just said a month ago, we were But then because of the video that of you were like wow - My pink couch. - Yeah. Yeah. I would really like to living room, and then once we we'll just do the whole area. So this is our LA house tour. The LA house tour, please keep in mind so far. It is a work in progress as you Alright let's head in. (intro music) Hello, hello, welcome to welcome to the show, it's time to talk (music) Alright room number one, the kitchen Yeah there are no beds in this I sleep in the sink. (Hannah laughs) first room you come to when Yeah. It's probably... I'm gonna say every a lot of time here, we love That's true you like What are the notable things We have a refrigerator. We had to get Yeah it didn't come with a refrigerator It has an ice machine that We discovered a drawer in the freezer like like oh my god. Exciting day. This is the boring ass That was the best day of Most of our cabinets and Yeah. We routinely find ourselves saying, Measuring cups was a big one this week. Further into our kitchen is our laundry area. - Yes. Yeah the door doesn't close so information on why that might be, I think the whole house is ajar. Yeah something about the house is doesn't close. I think it's the years of earthquake activities Could be. We are days away from sinking Welcome to our home. For our laundry we actually have a - Yeah, it's pretty sweet. You can do your wash and - Is that accurate? - It's really cool. You don't have to switch machines it job. And you can control it from your phone. So like we don't really have Hannah throw the laundry in and - Yeah start it. Whenever we want to start it. We haven't done that but Yeah. Alright so for our next room I feel like that's the room that's - That actually is my favorite room. This is our happy place. This is the cabinet that we found. - It's called a dresser, Shane. I don't remember where we got it. - It's Ashley Homestore. I particularly like how it is. Okay Shane. You're very utilitarian - There's Hannah. Love a good mirror closet, and that's That's her crate. Although some nights she tries - Yeah she does. I know. Bathrooms are always - You really can't see much. That's the toilet. There's our shower. I like how the towels are just hanging video, Shane. I mean if it's gonna be a Squirmy and Grubs of dishevelled. Yeah. I think this is the room that we And it's the room that we That's true if you count all of We love our bed. And we cannot talk about of this video, Brooklinen. Brooklinen is a luxury sheets company to elevate your home. Yes. So we literally replicated our bed We love our bed there. We got the Yeah. We love our Brooklinen sheets. for like three years now. And they make sleeping so comfortable And we're pretty tricky with Shane He likes a crisp sheet. - I'm a hot sleeper. I like to have like my sheet, So this is an amazing mix where the Yet I have my sheet and my duvet. It's crisp and cool but also Yeah. This is their classic bundle that's I didn't know if I believed that, you know, this is the good stuff here. I ended up pulling Shane's sheet up and because he can settle with this one. - I'm at peace. But this is one of their limited edition It's the tandem stripe in cacao. Yeah. It fits our room really well but they Yeah. At home I think we have a window two different ones. So this really does go I wouldn't call myself an interior designer Brooklinen is offering our viewers a special discount of $20 off any Just click the link below and use our All right. Should we show No, I'm taking a nap. (music) All right. This is our next room. And it's by far the most unfinished area. We have a dinky little table. It's not No, this is eventually going to Also, we have these like, what are these, metal chairs? They're like folding card table chairs. Yeah. They're folding soft chairs that are try to not sit too much, but we We have books piled under it to raise it up because it's quite low. It's not the right level for me and Cole, We have a bookshelf behind me We brought a few books that we love to transport, so. Well, you say almost nothing on it It's just like every little item we had. We were like put it on the bookshelf It's our storage space. Yeah. Storage. I mean, I think eventually in that little fireplace, we're going to add like a chair. - Like a comfy chair for the reading. - No. Not a bean bag. A chair. Maybe a lamp? A lamp. We also have our fireplace electric and not real. Yeah. It doesn't actually make a real flame. It doesn't even really blow heat. - It tries. - No. - You have to be real close. - So yeah, that's our dining area. Maybe one day you'll share a meal Wow. That's so nice. Shall we pivot Yes, let's pivot. - Which is literally just... It's just one big room. It's like kitchen, Yeah. Let's just pan this way. - All right, Shane. You're out of frame. Oooh, I'm... I'm losing you. Okay. So that's our kitchen. - And then let's go into the living room. (music) This is our living room. And I'm going to let Hannah show you the different Please take note of my TV. All right. Now that Shane is out of the way, There is Shane's TV, oversized. Ah, I love my pink couch. This is the couch that everyone it is pink because people are Yeah. In person, it's very light pink. I think like when you're filming the but it is it's definitely a Hannah is very peach toned. Here, - That is like a peach. Orangey. - It looks like I'm showing you... Yeah. Also, please notice our Christmas pillow. Yeah. We bought it in December and The couch is from Joybird. I don't know if anyone asked where my pink couch was from. They did ask. I hope you did, but it's from Joybird. eyeing their couches for so long and we And then when we finally did, I was excited. And then this couch, - Floor is lava! This is our Article couch. This is the one that - Oh, look, no oil stain. But this couch is really comfortable also. cool, cooling texture. What are we doing over We have to get a table, like a side And it's proving to be very Yeah, it's kind of a large space. So we just have to find a fairly large And then I think this is my crowning of furniture. This is our TV console - Yeah, it's real nice. And then there's, Shane's dying - Am I allowed on this rug? I'm not allowed on the white rug. Too light colored. But this TV is my pride and joy. - No. - But it is a crowning adornment. Okay. This is my TV. It's where I watch TV. That's amazing. So then right by the front door, we have a guest bathroom that Shane than our shower. And then right next door is a small but it's not fully set up right now. I'm excited to get my 300 year Oh. That's gonna be your desk, Shane. - 400 year old desk. - Hand carved. And then the only other room is across from our bedroom. And it is our guest room. So we don't There's just the twin bed. And then of Chloe's stuff in here, but that's it. - So now it is time for the backyard. I've been waiting all day to I've been waiting my whole life (music) All right. There's our furniture. - We got this from All Modern. It's a great, like very practical outdoor Yeah, it wasn't very expensive. We just wanted something all around great. - Comfy and usable. And I had to be able to build it by myself. So it worked out really well. And it's It seats like a good number of people. So that's been nice. We need to get a table for out here, And then we do have two lounge chairs that Yes, thank you Cole and Charisma. We also put up these string lights. Yeah. Hannah was on the ladder That was a fun day. (Liz) Okay, don't get yourself stuck in there. - That's okay. (music) We got these foam ramps on Wayfair. They're very, very lightweight and sturdy. And we've really enjoyed them. We also saw those at Cole and I would like to say Yes, they are. Cole makes fun of me because Shane is such a baby about it It wobbles a little, it's sturdy though. And now the moment you've all been crowning adornment? - No one has guessed it. (angelic music) A wittle itty baby - My lemon tree. My. Yeah. Shane, he purchased it, ordered it, I feel a strong sense of parenthood We've already gotten three Four lemons. One of them Haven't had the other ones yet. Look how many lemons are on it. I love it. I love that I have a lemon tree. We. Is that not the most picturesque thing on such a small tree. So many lemons. It's very tropical. Our palms are destroying our Yeah, I know. We need to deal with those. Those should not have I'm going to ignore that. This house obviously. And right now it's more because it's not heated so - Yeah. Yeah, because it gets pretty cold at night. It looks really nice. I mean, no, it needs I like the fact that there is water Should we ever feel the desire Yeah. All right, that was our house tour. - Thank you for visiting. And we will update you as we get more furniture because the We said it was a work in progress. - Yeah, that was fun. Yes, we'll see you next time. Once again, Brooklinen is offering our viewers Just click the link below and use code