Hi, I'm Jean. At the age of 38 years old, island of our dreams, Bali. Our passive income so we don't need to work a 9-5 or any kind with stuff that's meaningful to us. Surf, For the friends who have been you'll know my back story but for those who don't... once upon a time I was an unhappy Big Law quit and got off that hamster wheel. If you wanna So many of you have been curious about how did There are so many misconceptions, like people income I did YouTube - that's absolutely not quitting and us ending up here in Bali, being able was a quick and easy transition - The early retirement formula is generic, then grow your wealth to hit the In my case, we didn't actually make big money, but because our target retirement with planning and discipline, we still managed to So how did I make money? Well, after I quit, I replace my lost income. My dream was to live on job. But all my official livelihood skills, law, direction. So, to get to my dream life, I moved re-skilling myself. I spent a couple of months instructor. The day after I got my cert, I walked and - I remember this so clearly - 26 rejections instructor at a nice resort. Yay - my first So of course, the pay is peanuts compared to costs in Vietnam was so affordable that it was 5 years traveling Asia, surfing, teaching, and zumba, personal training... I taught language compliance work assignments. I worked part time Along the way, I started 4 businesses. I sold bean a yoga studio.... Heck, in between when I had to reasons I even went back to a corporate stint for we started the 4th business together, a quite well. The starting years were slow going What about spending and expenditure? From the moment I quit the law, I knew I had a only basics and essentials &amp; switched into it's just so immediately clear that society's lives - things clearly don't bring happiness, it Ain't nobody got time for fancy clothes and adventures to be had. And living light which means any extra money can Vitaly's and my happiest times was always so then it became our dream to live in Bali profitable business in Vietnam and we didn't We aren't ready now as rookies to start new capital injections with the uncertainty of is to try to get enough passive income so We knew from experience that our about 1,500 to 2000 dollars - if you wanna So $2000 became the target to hit. With that wealth in a variety of ways. We're no financial portfolio - mine is mostly US growth stocks, very volatile so its only a very small fraction It came as a surprise to us actually reached our goal for passive given how modest our goal was, but for me the pandemic meant that our business in Vietnam holding us back anymore from acting on our With all that said, if you were to I hope it would be the following First, if you want to do something similar, first have a specific and realistic plan and Having a specific target gives you and this was absolutely crucial in us reaching as opposed to grinding away indefinitely, We've all have been so groomed by society to we feel bad if we're not constantly striving, you might never move from the striving part to Second is to understand that the power of each of to something amazing over time, and to use that So living a minimalist lifestyle comes pretty around activities we love as opposed to around with us anyway whenever we travel. comfortable lodgings, even if it isn't posh or so we usually live away from cities, which also advertisements and temptations of "You only live I know it can be challenging, especially if you're a big fan of social media. Temptation is always there to impress others or grab that takeout because you don't But the next time you're reaching more clothes you don't need, or that you might wanna pause to consider whether the you delaying reaching your dream life by another This is the eternal struggle right? instant gratification vs attaining FIRE - Third is to make good money by This whole model only really works if you are of your expenditure so you can save and invest If your sole income stream is working a low before you get anywhere. I personally believe that today's world, if only to hedge against job loss. smart too. Make sure its something in demand by When we ran our business, we actually but we provided far better quality, and Instead of just being a yoga instructor registered a yoga business myself, which meant for big events and projects etc. and bring in Fourth is to educate yourself I never learnt about managing money and I was too busy and my fat paycheck every my wealth in other ways, cos heck, I make good my only income stream, my salary, was lost and We all need to know about money. How to make it, Even if you love your job and want to one day you may lose it. So we all need don't teach this at school and you have to Books are great as a starting point to learn about world current affairs and stock market you must react accordingly, or at least it'll many amazing Youtube channels out there that I myself keep up with and find really useful.... on finance which I like down in the description out. Knowledge is power, in this case, the power Five is that our story in particular couldn't what they call geoarbitrage, the concept very clearly summarized in the happen when you earn dollars, live This wasn't an intentional part of our a huge advantage in speeding up our But arbitrage is simply the concept of taking markets - it doesn't necessarily mean you must don't want to. It could be as simple as simply from city to suburbs to lower rent &amp; I hope my story has given you some food for your own personal hopes and dreams. All of us are amazing life visions to pursue. I hope what in getting there. And remember that, whichever don't forget to enjoy the journey whilst Thank you so much for watching and for all your support. If you liked this video and stay tuned for more of my thoughts on Speak to you next Saturday, bye!