- So this home right here takes Let me explain how this works. Our homes have always It takes months to And during that time, all your materials are exposed to the The life of your home starts ticking as soon as the first boards are laid out. But that's not the case with Boxabl. Paolo Tiramani and his to revolutionize the Located in Las Vegas, and assemble an entire Today, I managed to design a modular home that is less than $50,000 and small enough to be Boxabl is not only a faster but also is affordable and portable. And today we're gonna find out how. - So Boxabl is a design company. So everything we do has to be beautiful at the end of the day. So that goes down to a granular level, and even we want to have a beautiful for our staff. We actually have a packed right here, which is quite nice. You know, we're very, very You know, tens of thousands of in Boxabl. A hundred thousands pre-orders. I mean, it's absolutely a staggering sort of once in a lifetime event. I think that the beginning So to express our all the intense interest in the company we've actually set up the or a Disney ride. And we have behind us where the doors automatically open. It's just like Disney world. And we put them in the car. We put them in, in PPE, the and we give them a tour. - Amazing, let's get started. - Let's go. - [Enes] So this is - Absolutely, what we're - [Enes] I mean, this is amazing. Tell me the square footage here, the volume of this factory is insane. - [Paolo] Here we have It is an eighth of a mile long, it's four acres under a roof. So because we're in a factory like everybody else, with and nails, we can use and we don't have to use And I would say it starts over here with the CNC cutting. CNC cutting means it's just - Almost like fabricating for the lamination, right? - Yes. I think if you that the Boxabl when it comes together is a big jigsaw puzzle. - Yeah by a machine, so everything is perfect. And then the Boxabl's themselves the way they go together is a Legos. And what can't you build with Legos? You can build everything. So we'll make these empty building boxes in about three sizes. And then we configure them. Configuration just means, - Gotcha. - We turn it into a So it's incredibly modular. And that allows us to do production and lower the - You briefly mentioned which is steel and concrete but you guys also use a as in a really unique way, And at the same time, the ton of efficiency to these units, right? - Exactly, so if you see behind us this is actually where the process starts, where we actually assemble the panels. So we are steel, concrete compressed together with about - Wow if you want to stay hot, And if you want to stay cool, you're living in an igloo cooler. That's the best way to think of Boxabl in terms of its thermal efficiency. - [Enes] And I think that because no matter which part you're dealing with some at some point of the whether it's heat, having really allows these units to be efficient. Can we cover these? Because I actually don't - [Paolo] So these are So you know, a forklift allows us to go in or our customers to go up to two stories. It saves a tremendous amount So this is actually buried building shell that we build. - Amazing! - So really quite a breakthrough. - That way, as you're lifting you're not damaging your - Exactly, in fact there's in the Casita. If we look to your left here, Imagine this Casita, which and we have a total of six in each casita. And if I can bring you who would build a home like this? - That's beyond overkill. - Beyond overkill. - Beyond overkill in such a positive way. Because even though they eventually become your - So yeah, we get First of all, we are overkill. We want to raise the standard - You guys keep pride in that. - We absolutely do. Secondly, if we have a easier said than done, - [Enes] Amazing, and in how you guys put these hinges together is truly one of the most - Yes, absolutely. - And to me it makes perfect sense because these hinges solve transportation, strengths, practicality and allowing you guys to keep these homes at a small footprint till - Yeah, exactly. And the other thing is, they're unpacked but we want to make sure that if our customer hundreds of times, these hundreds of times. So it really changes the way They can take it with them. - Now I need you to tell us a little bit about your wall panels, they're not just assembled walls. The materials chosen here, the they have a different cladding. Can you tell us a little bit about that? - Yeah, absolutely. So the steel and concrete is what we were talking about here. And you can see we have the concrete and then on the interior is something it's like that we use instead of drywall. Drywall is nasty, it's crumbly. It's not built for transportation. - It's molds. - Exactly, And this And the way we construct these things, we can see that the hinge is now actually buried of the ceiling panel. And because the machine you can see all the holes are cut, things like that for the lights. - Amazing. Tell me your current timeline process. how quick you guys can produce one of these homes and where in terms of the future growth? - So we do in fact, very It has been engineered to be made in a factory with production. Having said that we've been in And I think that it took maybe three weeks to make the first one. It's now taking probably, we're making two houses a week now. Now we're going to six And when we're in full production, we will be able to put out from this facility. And I think once we're fully dialed in with factory two, I'm a quarter of an hour to Absolutely staggering. - That's fascinating. I mean, wrap your head In 15 minutes, they can produce a home that is overkill for super efficient, foldable to anywhere pretty much around When I had the chance to talk to they mentioned that in you're gonna be able to pick the layouts you want, - Yep the end product that you're ordering. Don't have to talk to anyone. You can just press order exactly to your spec, to the perfection. Then you just get the delivery, which would be honestly Now I wanna talk about cost. Obviously you guys are really trying to make these homes affordable. Casita is an important model, starts around $49,000 and change. But I know you guys have plans I believe there's a unit Then there's another unit Tell us a little bit about that. - Absolutely, think about 20-20, 20-30 and 20-40. And you'll be able to with those three sizes and connect them, we believe three currently, and connect them, so you get free porches on the other. Really it's endless - Amazing. - So what we have here And so we put it out here, but this essentially But still it gives the and we'll see it unpack now. (drilling sounds) - So I'm assuming those are the braces that kind of holds it together. Again, key factor here, You can actually put this on a trailer transport it wherever you want. Super fascinating. And it's hard to believe they have a full sized kitchen and bathroom assembled in this form. - That's right. It's eight and a half foot wide. So that means it can with no permits, no flag cars, no nothing. Put it on a trailer and you go. - That's amazing. - [Paolo] And I think that when the public starts receiving these this is going to be a - Coolest unboxing. - Yeah and who would've thought like a hinge can really help you guys build something truly one of a kind. And I'm just seeing how the Even your flat roof - Exactly. - And those hinges are with the engineering of it. It gives structural support and it literally makes this - Exactly. - So when people assemble on their own sites, do they hire their own crew? You guys actually provide the team that assembles these homes. Tell us a little bit about that. - Yeah, absolutely. So for the unpacking so Boxabl will deliver the product. And what we're doing is an empty- - It's an example. - An empty shell. We are now just starting Boxabl university where we will have certified installers all over the country. So a potential homeowner put in their zip code, choose a couple of certified pick the one they like. And that contractor is will be able to unpack it for them. And it's a beautiful thing, because it's a stressful thing - Yep. unpacked and installed by one that certified installer and do a fantastic job. So it's a sort of a tri-factor. - It's regulated by you guys. - Absolutely - And that allows us to really very, very quickly. Welcome to the Boxabl Casita. And I'll give you the quick tour. First of all, you'll notice Absolutely staggering ceiling height. And to unpack from the is pretty staggering. A luxury home has nine foot ceilings as you know, and taller. And then the other thing eight foot tall windows So there's nothing small about the Casita. Just because you're - [Enes] This does not in It's nicely laid out, They're not like the smallest And this model, I know not but has these accordion - Yeah, exactly. This was just for a prototype that we did. We typically have with the Casita the two large windows here and here, but you can see irrespective it would be flooded with light. And then the design of the Casita, I think our architects did I mean, I think this is It's basically into quadrants. And we came in actually through Imagine 400 square feet, you've got a front door and a back door. It's very nice. - It's very nice. - And so the back of the And over here to my left, we You mentioned there's nothing undersized. Exactly right. Everything is full size inside the Casita. So it is very nice queen size bed and behind you an absolutely full size- - Spacious bathroom. - Bathroom. - I mean, you have a water You have a nice vanity with a sink and a lot of countertop We're used to touring homes. So I'm just picking up all these details. Even you have your barn door design sliding glass door assembly one single unit. And you mentioned in the - No, exactly. So this is the ceramic concrete panels and it's incredibly tough and then the front of the house, so again, this is just a sample prototype, but this would be a front door. - Got it. So folks would enter in here, and then again, those quadrants. So we had the back of the bathroom quadrant. And then the front of the And I guess the snacking. - It's almost like you have - Yes - Yes, exactly. So even, you know, nice size fireplace, we have a TV - That turns on each side, so or here. - Yeah, exactly. And then the kitchen, really, We have, as you can see, you and remember, this is all included. Giant Z wave countertop to And even this really nice- - Little dining area. - Breakfast bar, you you know, LED lamp, but it to when it's cozier and then combination is all included. And you know the lights dimmable and then the heating and cooling are these mini splits. We don't use the HVAC because and the mold and the sneezing. So this is basically automotive it's spectacularly efficient. - Everybody in Europe uses them. They work great. - Yeah I mean, in some of the are designed or picked in a way with considering cost in mind. Obviously I know you guys work really hard to get that number under $50,000. So tell us a little bit about that. - Yeah, absolutely. So design and cost are paramount. So we want to hit a broad audience, so that means neutral colors. I'm not actually a big fan of any color. I just like black, white, and gray myself. So we stay very neutral with our colors and we stay very neutral with the design. So for example, these if you put modern knickknacks it looks modern. If you put traditional furniture, - Traditional strike the middle of the really very high quality appliances. And the reason we can get very You know, we can leverage that they're happy- - Get the cost down. - Get the cost down, pass and deliver, you know, - Everybody wins. - As the way we build homes changes, Boxabl is making a huge impact on the way people see And I for one, can't wait to All right, everyone, what an amazing day. And I'm so glad we got a chance to tour this phenomenal facility. What Boxabl is doing And I hope in the future we can tour their new facilities as well. And as always, you can about them down in the Lastly, if you enjoyed the tour, just make sure to give us a like, subscribe to our channel and (soothing music)