The man known to history as Andrew Jackson was is unclear, but it is likely that he was Jane and James Crawford, in modern His father, also named Andrew Jackson, was an arrived in Ulster, Ireland, in the 1690s. Many adopted homeland in Ireland after just a few in America as the Scots-Irish. Andrew Jackson was Belfast with his wife and two young boys, Hugh settled in the Waxhaw region in the valley of the while working on his 200-acre farm at Twelve logging accident a few weeks before the birth Elizabeth Jackson, was born around 1740 in Sr. around 1761. After the death of her husband, her sister and brother-in-law, Jane and she gave birth to her third son, naming him Jackson grew up during a period of intensifying and the subjects of its colonies in North outbreak of the American Revolution. At the end the British had gained control of Canada from of the Thirteen Colonies along the East Coast of in fighting for the crown during these wars, imposed heavy taxes on the colonies through the 1765. These measures provoked riots and boycotts not be subject to taxation without parliamentary the Tea Act of 1773 was introduced, a move in the colony of Massachusetts in December Boston and Massachusetts led the colonies to coordinate a joint boycott of British goods in when British regulars exchanged fire with American and in June the Second Continental Congress met and appointed George Washington of Virginia American Revolutionary War. Subsequent events into a United States of America and declared in the summer of 1776. A long conflict but in 1781 the colonials emerged victorious accepted peace terms which acknowledged Andrew grew up against the backdrop of this as the brightest prospect out of the family's arrangements to train him as a church minister Elizabeth soon realised that Andrew's restless the church and his schooling appears to have sons to participate in militia drills, being an British. Her eldest son Hugo joined the militia of 1779. By 1781 the 14-year-old Andrew and his with the local militia. In April 1781 the two and after Andrew refused to clean the shoes of his sword, wounding the young boy in the head and Crawford were taken to Camden, South Carolina, Jackson arrived to secure their release as part smallpox in the prison camp, and while Andrew weeks later, Andrew's mother contracted cholera Andrew Jackson was orphaned as the only In December 1782 the British evacuated Charleston, Colonies, as part of their disengagement from the the city and claim a modest inheritance from his at the gambling table. He then returned home to a teacher and managed the 200-acre farm he had decided to become a lawyer. In early 1785, shortly to Spruce Macay, a lawyer in Salisbury, North helping Macay run his legal practice, Jackson went North Carolina's leading lawyers and a veteran of was licensed as an attorney in North Carolina in age he entered the legal trade, but he struggled In the summer of 1788 Jackson accompanied John Back in April 1784 North Carolina had ceded its the Mississippi to Congress to help pay off its as the independent state of Franklin. Part which controlled the Province of Louisiana North Carolina rescinded its cession of its its control over the region. McNairy was a appointed the new court's judge, while Jackson and McNairy arrived in Nashville. Jackson lodged who led the expedition to settle the area also called Rachel, was living there with her of Jackson and suspicious of his intentions. Robards left his wife while Jackson moved out of was romantically involved with Rachel at the time marry in the Spanish-administered town of Natchez winter of 1789. Lewis Robards did not initiate granted in late 1793, so theoretically this invalid. They exchanged vows again in January 1794 By the time of the Jacksons' elopement in Natchez, The product of an initiative to strengthen the through a series of compromises between the that met in Philadelphia in 1787. While smaller states wanted representation based on population, the Senate and population-weighted representation split the country into Federalists who supported it took too much power from individual states After the Constitution was ratified in the pass a Bill of Rights to appease their opponents. in November 1789, it agreed to cede its western which formed part of the Southwest Territory left Jackson without a job, but he reminded the still required an attorney and was confirmed in private clients who were short on cash but could land speculation, forming a partnership with his a trading enterprise, but quit the business after indebted. In 1796 he and Rachel bought an estate years until selling out and moving next door to a many slaves here. While Jackson made very few oral it is generally agreed that his conduct and There is, for instance, evidence of his ordering families by selling off one slave and keeping the treatment of his slaves was always expressed as considered to be his property rather than someone level. Over a dozen of Jackson's slaves would and they possibly were involved in building work Jackson entered politics for the first time in to have exceeded 60,000 people and was thus the constitutional convention at Knoxville, establishment of the new state of Tennessee out Carolina. After Tennessee joined the union on October as the state's lone congressman to the Thomas Jefferson's Democratic-Republican Party, government and supported states' rights. In Washington's administration for siding with the the power of the central government. He also spoke the Governor of Tennessee, who led a reprisal Tennessee militia in 1793. In July 1797 Jackson's the Senate after being deemed guilty of plotting an attempt to open up navigation rights of the Tennessee where he influenced Jackson's election though Jackson resigned in April 1798 after because he considered himself unsuited to the Upon his return to Tennessee, Jackson accepted judge on the Tennessee Superior Court. While his a judge, he dispensed justice in a way that was a sheriff failed to arrest a local outlaw who Jackson took off his judicial robes and confronted surrender. In February 1802, the command of the position that Jackson desired above all else, but popular John Sevier. Around five years earlier, Jackson discovered that Sevier had undermined his As the militia officers cast their votes in 1802, to Governor Archibald Roane, who happened to be favour. and on the 1st of April 1802, Major the Tennessee state militia. The circumstances of who returned to the governor's office exchanged public insults in in the state capital men met to fight no shots were exchanged and In 1800 Thomas Jefferson was elected President sympathised with the interests of rural, Jefferson's administration managed to purchase the government in France for $15 million, a relatively stretched from Louisiana north to the Dakotas modern-day states. Napoleon had decided to sell preserve France's overseas empire and instead Among other things, the Louisiana Purchase meant trade along the Mississippi River, an issue that In 1805, after the end of his term Aaron Burr journeyed to the western frontier and men discussed the prospect of war with Spain, following the Louisiana Purchase. In the early Texas and other regions westwards to California, informed Jackson that he was hoping to instigate commander of the Tennessee militia, Jackson but he soon received news that Burr's intentions his own empire out of the Louisiana Territory. Jackson quickly disassociated himself from Conspiracy was uncovered Jefferson responded and in June 1807 he was brought to Virginia. Jackson testified and gave evidence though was soon exonerated on the basis that out his own country in the Louisiana Territory The previous year, Jackson was involved in a authenticity of promissory notes paid to Jackson Charles Dickinson, who may have additionally a matter Jackson was not going to let rest. The Kentucky on the 30th of May 1806. Dickinson fired and narrowly missing his heart. After taking the trigger, only for his pistol to jam at half-cock. his opponent a mortal wound in the chest. The pull of the trigger was a source of controversy In the meantime, Jackson's economic fortunes was plunged into an economic crisis. In 1806, French, had been unable to defeat Britain on the all British trade with the European continent. As ports, neutral American merchant ships sailing For many years, the Royal Navy had resorted to in some cases kidnapping American sailors President Jefferson threatened to go to war with States lacked the military capacity for such a Monroe failed to persuade the British to make a passed the Embargo Act in late 1807, banning impacted the whole country, with merchants in the unable to export their produce. The decline in Tennessee and other parts of the United States. As the 1808 presidential election approached, successor James Madison and instead backed the won the Democratic-Republican nomination easily Jefferson repealed the Embargo Act at the to ban trade with Britain and France, doing for the country. In 1810 the young Henry Clay, trial, was elected to congress representing Speaker of the House immediately upon entering leading advocates for war with Britain. Clay John Calhoun of South Carolina, and the two congressmen advocating for war with Britain. in 1812 President Madison issued a In the early 1810s the United States was facing tribes to the west as well. For several years, of uniting the Native American tribes around the confederacy, which prepared to take part in an prospect of a large body of Native warriors one for Jackson. More immediately, a band of prompting Jackson to mount a campaign while Tecumseh was away recruiting allies, General struck at the heart of his confederacy by in November 1811. In response, Tecumseh allied War of 1812 broke out between the US and Britain tensions. With the outbreak of war 3,000 men he was given orders by the War Department to go to Owing to difficulties supplying his men, Jackson reached Natchez in mid-February, Jackson received British threat had not yet materialised. Not long War John Armstrong to disband his militia and have left them vulnerable to Native American Jackson therefore defied orders and earning himself the nickname Old Hickory for narrowly avoided death again when he was involved Thomas Hart Benton and his brother Jesse. While in his left shoulder, a brutal civil war after a faction known as the Red Sticks, not only against the whites but against their towards the white population, began attacking of 1813 the Red Sticks massacred hundreds of prompting President Madison to call After bringing together 2,500 men at Fayetteville the Red Sticks. On the 3rd of November his cavalry of Tallushatchee, after which Jackson sent an as a son alongside his nephew Andrew Jackson Jr., he came to the aid of the friendly White Sticks and destroyed half their force. Jackson's success defeat and death at the Battle of the Thames on American leader caused his confederacy Jackson's army of 2,000 men attacked the Red Bend near the Tallapoosa River. While the Jackson's cavalry and his Cherokee and capturing the camp and killing most of the a fort of their own which they named Fort the surrender of William Weatherford, In June 1814, Jackson was rewarded with promotion army and command of the Seventh Military District, and Louisiana. In August, he imposed the punishing both loyal White Sticks and to give up almost 100,000 square kilometres of but the War of 1812 continued to rage with Emperor Napoleon in France in the spring of and gave Britain the opportunity to focus its while American and British peace delegations began Major General Robert Ross landed in Maryland the American capital of Washington DC and set Not long after this, Jackson marched to Pensacola, its neutrality after a British naval squadron Jackson attacked the city, prompting the Spanish A few weeks earlier, Jackson had received a of a British attack on the Louisiana port city. Orleans and arrived on the 1st of December. of the Louisiana militia. Having also formed an had around 5,000 men at his disposal. The British while its commander General Edward Pakenham was On the 23rd of December the British vanguard prompting Jackson to launch a night raid to push prepared for the main showdown, building field launched his frontal assault at dawn on the 8th ranks of British Redcoats as they advanced, and ramparts were picked off by the defenders as General Pakenham rode forward to rally the 44th the attack when he was killed by a musket ball. to withdraw from the field. From behind their and fewer than 100 total casualties, while the When news of Jackson's victory spread across the country breathed a collective sigh of of many Americans General Andrew Jackson was greatest military commander since George that the war had been ended by a treaty signed This was two weeks before the Battle of New radios or any other form of telecommunications reached North America. Britain agreed to had been before the war, while the end of the war of the naval tensions which had caused the War Jackson was invited to Washington by President light of the military hero but to determine course Jackson agreed to support James Monroe 1816 election and was named commander of federal In 1816, Jackson turned his attention back to as a base to attack American settlers across the Spain to deal with the Native American attack, from settling on Cherokee land in the northern Madison that it was impossible to comply with to a committee to consider the rights of the territory. Since the committee was dominated by the land in exchange for a modest monetary sum. expected to be the next president, Jackson argued damage the interests and security of the United Americans was to assimilate them into American In January 1818, Jackson saw a copy of the Gaines to chase Seminole raiders into Florida but believed that the order would merely encourage refuge in Florida, and in a letter to Monroe a task he estimated would take sixty days to did not see the letter, Jackson claimed that the in early 1818 Jackson rallied his Tennessean April his army captured several Seminole the Spanish settlement of St Mark's. Then, on his again and left it with a garrison of American authorities in Florida. Jackson's actions not administration, and he was ordered to relinquish the American Secretary of State, John Quincy Luis de Onis, signed a treaty whereby Not long after the end of the conflict that the country was once again hit by a devastating which resulted from an influx of cheap imports end of the Napoleonic Wars. The crisis was States stopped lending for land speculation in the debt continued to increase and Congress mandated on the army. Accordingly Jackson was cashiered or to make an enemy out of Jackson and offered him decided to ratify the Adams-Onis Treaty. transfer of authority from Spanish governor Jose Jackson left for home and wrote to Monroe During the early 1820s Jackson's the presidency in 1824, not so much for his the preferred candidate of former presidents as a creature of the Washington establishment. might be in a better position to defeat Crawford, legislature that he would be prepared to run for February 1823 he was nominated to run. His rivals cabinet secretaries, Adams and Crawford, as well did not campaign actively for the presidency, such 42% of the popular vote. Jackson won 99 electoral edged out Clay who only won 37. Since no it was up to the House of Representatives to Clay would preside over the election and while out balance in either Jackson or Adams' favour. The Jackson might become a military dictator. In him his support. Hence, when the House cast its 13 states to Jackson's 7 and was duly elected. appointed Henry Clay as secretary of state, an the presidency. Jackson's allies claimed that through which Clay as Speaker had delivered Adams supporters in the election, and in return Adams president one day. Consequently, while Jackson election, the Jacksonian cause was promoted in Eaton, and Representative Sam Houston, as well to form a coalition that would become the basis the 1828 US Presidential Election in support of presidential elections in American history, their attacks, including his passion for duelling, his treatment of Native Americans, and his supporters retaliated by presenting their the corrupt Washington elite. Ultimately, Adams' election by a margin of 178 electoral votes to 83. help but feel a certain amount of anxiety prospect of life in Washington and would find anxiety contributed to a heart attack on the 18th heartbroken husband held her so tightly that her and the President-elect doubted whether he not escape the conclusion that Rachel's death was his sense of duty motivated him to travel to president of the United States on the 4th of address vowing to respect the constitutional of the states. As he departed for the White the opportunity to meet their hero broke the cable making his way to his new home. Having invited Jackson was forced to escape through a side The unedifying spectacle was a sure a sign as any Jackson had fought the 1828 campaign attacking and he considered it his duty to root out the anti-democratic Washington elite. For Secretary of of the Treasury he appointed Samuel Ingham of friend from Tennessee John Eaton. The choice of a that Jackson sought to have personal control Jackson also relied on advice from a small circle journalists Amos Kendall of Kentucky and of New Hampshire, all of whom were induced to The President's nephew Andrew Donelson served as 'kitchen cabinet.' Jackson claimed that federal were not guaranteed their jobs for life but his critics accused him of creating a The first major crisis of the Jackson presidency among society in Washington and especially the Year's Day 1829 the widowed John Eaton married a naval officer named John Timberlake, had that the newlyweds had been having an affair and after Eaton was named Secretary of War, the social boycott led by Floride Calhoun, the wife of on Peg Eaton's honour reminded the President and Jackson stood firmly on the side the Petticoat Affair. Secretary of State also rallied to Peg Eaton's defence, mobilising on the Eatons in solidarity. Van Buren's especially as his nephew and secretary in boycotting the Eatons, an action which led the On the 8th of December 1829, Jackson delivered his by discussing some of his plans in foreign policy Britain, Jackson turned to his domestic agenda. presidents would be elected by popular vote, an in 1824. Perhaps in response to his opponents' he also supported limiting presidents to a single Panic of 1819, the country was split over whether and westerners broadly supported increasing the but the southerners favoured lowering the sympathised with the south and the cause of raising revenue for the government to pay down its referring to an ongoing controversy in which the state laws in Georgia and Alabama and appealed their appeal and proposed granting land west who wished to retain tribal autonomy, but the Ongoing tensions over tariff reform and the to an ever-widening rift between Jackson and Tariff of 1828 during the Adams administration in December 1828 under the title South Carolina while the Constitution gave the federal government this did not mean it could do so in order to that the tariff had been imposed by an unchecked the south, he quoted the Tenth Amendment all powers not specifically delegated to the to the States and the people" and thus states government they deemed unconstitutional. the author of this bombshell report was The debates that followed on tariff memorable exchanges during Jackson's Jackson and Calhoun were present at a celebration Jackson read the list of toasters from they were all nullifiers. After the 24 Jackson responded defiantly "Our Federal next to speak and responded, "The Union, The vice-president's failure to acknowledge the Jackson. The disagreements between the two men them all to step aside, including his allies. dispatched to London as ambassador with a promise Throughout his life, President Jackson institutions, blaming them for the boom citizens to fall into debt and ruin. The Bank crisis of 1819 seemed to confirm this view. but in 1831 Henry Clay advised Bank President Clay anticipated that Congress would approve the had been nominated as the presidential candidate election and wanted to fight the election as Webster also persuaded Biddle to seek an early votes in Congress if Jackson and his Democrats application in early 1832, Webster underlined national currency. Opponents of the bank, such as paper money altogether and recognising gold and charter's renewal passed both Houses, Jackson grounds. Yet despite protests at the despotism elected President and Vice-President by While the tariff and secession crisis was new, all too familiar. During Jackson's presidency River Mississippi became prominent. Although the with their white neighbours by adopting a them as farmers and traders, this did not prevent laws in an attempt to force them to move west. practical means of stopping white settlers and the best way to prevent bloodshed was for which in turn would open up land for white the Indian Removal Act, which allowed the federal of the Mississippi for new lands to the west. In weather and unfamiliar terrain caused thousands chief as a "Trail of Tears", a name that has relocation policies of the 1830s. Nevertheless, called on other Native American tribes to follow "the complete execution of the plan of removal...of As Jackson approached the end of his second United States was set to expire. Nicholas Biddle, still expected the Bank to receive its charter at an economic crisis. After advice from Attorney had decided to withdraw Treasury deposits from the state banks. When Jackson's Treasury Secretary and appointed Taney as acting secretary, who of October 1833. In response Biddle tightened to engineer a financial crisis as a demonstration collapsed all over the country, Biddle mobilised Senate Henry Clay introduced a motion of censure without congressional approval. Jackson remained spring of 1834 the liquidity started flowing from defeated Biddle in the 'Bank Wars,' on the 1st of government had paid off its debts. However, as the state banks were empowered to issue notes speculative bubble. In July 1836 Jackson belatedly purchasers to buy land in gold or silver. Land which would not be felt until 1837 when Jackson bankers fuelling boom and bust cycles, Jackson For a man who had made his name on the relatively peaceful. Instead, as president Jackson his foreign policy goals. He had always believed and in 1829 he sought to negotiate a purchase from Spain in 1821. The Mexican government granted and Stephen Austin led 300 families to do so changes in the Mexican government complicated Anthony Butler's suggestion of offering bribes to of acquiring Texas through diplomacy, who had previously spoken of launching an United States. In the summer of 1832 Jackson met travel to Texas on the pretext of investigating the sentiments of the settlers in Texas towards Mexicans were seeking to stop the flow of banned the settlers from bringing slaves. American-born and Mexican-born citizens, forced the Mexican troops to move back south of Antonio Lopez de Santa Anna vowed vengeance and way to Washington. By early 1836 the Mexicans Texans at the Battle of the Alamo. While Jackson he did nothing to prevent Americans from joining of rebel forces and hoped to lure the Mexicans Gaines to intervene with his American army. and instead the Texans defeated Santa Anna alone 1836. After being taken prisoner, Santa Anna had While Houston wrote to Jackson inviting the prepared to do so during a presidential independence of the Republic of Texas on the 3rd Jackson was succeeded as president by Martin van policies. The 70-year-old Jackson returned to successes, the estate was poorly run and in the former president's adopted son, Andrew continued to take an interest in the political writing to the new President a couple of times a of the Bank of the United States, Biddle had the the state banks to restrict credit during by Jackson's bursting of the land bubble. In late with Georgia was implemented as 13,000 Cherokees by Winfield Scott, 4,000 of whom perished during and the Native American removals of the 1830s Jackson's assertive presidency had won him many In the election of 1840, Van Buren was defeated by who took a page from Jackson's book by running died of pneumonia after just a month in succeeded to the office, surprising the Whigs In the early 1840s Jackson exchanged several of Texas. As President of the Texas Republic, to join the United States, but in the event the the Texans could expand westwards to the Pacific British to the north in Canada and north-westwards Washington State. Having received the hint establish close ties with the British, Jackson He was also in favour of full recognition of which was at the time jointly occupied Texas as the key issue of the 1844 campaign, annexation. Van Buren remained the favourite attacked him for refusing to support annexation, Polk emerged as the dark horse candidate and won and Oregon. President Tyler, after accomplishing resolution of the House and Senate to approve the bill on the 1st of March 1845, three days before on the 29th of December. By then having passed away at the Hermitage on Andrew Jackson left behind a legacy as one of history. A precocious individual, he fought a trained lawyer before he was twenty years of in the formation of the state of Tennessee and he is perhaps Tennessee's most famous son in American life was forged through his military also playing a major part in the wars against the in the 1810s. He was robbed of the White House Quincy Adams and Henry Clay. Thereafter, efforts to the formation of the Democratic Party. president were controversial. Scandals like the over the national bank, tariffs and secession, retrospect his passage of the Indian Removal Tears that followed seem the gravest black spot on in any constructive way with the slavery issue. importance in the history of the United States in in south-western expansion and then as president such that many scholars define the Second Party and the mid-1850s as effectively being a clash not have been a particularly good president, What do you think of Andrew Jackson? Was rights and Manifest Destiny, or was he a cleansing while de-stabilising the country let us know in the comment section and in the