Your brain to act as your most amazing ally. It's my habit. It's my brain. It's my pattern. I'm going to change it. The habit is more important One of the things that I think most people want, And that's everything. And I learned many, many years ago sometimes not at the same time, but you can have it all. And if you set up your values and you set up your processes and systems and your rituals, you can have it all. And sometimes that means Other times it means having physical But I look at my life in these facets is my well-being, my spiritual, the relationships with my wife, And I take these things from the perspective And then financial wealth is a vehicle for me. That's all it is for me. You know, and I was in debt, $10 million, it wouldn't really matter to me. It's not who I am. It just tells me Either really well or poorly. And I've had, you know, some wonderful, And I have lost a fortune Big shit. It was like, just big deal, you know? I'll share a little story with you some insights to my thinking about money. Many years ago, I had invested in a company and I put about $300,000 into the company. And the company And then I left and left my investment there and for the most part, I just left. I was involved in business and left my investment And all I said was, And I end up basically And people ask me, like, How come it doesn't bother you I said, because I know where it came from. See, it's in God's bank, right? Money is an idea. Money is energy And so I learned many, many years ago you know, a while ago, there is something and the law of compensation first asks, for your product Is there a need for your product If the answer is yes, great. Then the next question is in the marketplace the same product or service And then the third part of the equation at marketing and selling your product or international basis that determines So you might have an amazing how to get it out there, it just And think about this. Why do some paintings sell for 50 Because they're rare. Because they're rare. There's value, perceived, imagined. It's rare. So what I learned a lot my abilities, my skills rare? If we I took the slides that I knew and you get the video of all this anyway, Some of you are in the danger zone in one or more areas of your life. Some of you are in the comfort zone Some of you are in the thrive zone. And if you know where you're at on a scale of 1 to 100, then you can move the needle through decision making and through conscious efforts. And the key is to make progress, So if you don't manage and measure things, how will you know So first and foremost, my form of a game, is work. And so we kind of gamified this. But what I'd like you to do just to get the anatomy of a habit, which is really because every one of the results of where you're at and I don't need you to share it This is personal to you. So be honest with yourself and you will grade yourself The number is irrelevant. All it is is just says, Here's here's where I'm at. For those of you at home, So in the arena of financial wealth, based on where you think you should be where are you I had a 20, a 30 and 8100 right now makes no difference And I look at health as your All right. Physical health and emotional health. Where are you in relationship to your goal or your ideal? Because these will give you We talked These and if you want a different result. When would now be a good time Now, you guys are brilliant. Brilliant. Why would now be a good time to change? It starts off with a decision, right? And if you're committed to it, about my first mentor saying, And when I asked him what the difference come with excuses and stories and reasons But if you're committed, Great. If you want a great result, That's logical and moral and ethical? Of course. And so take 5 minutes and just give yourself your true Are you in the Thrive zone and in the danger zone in others? Because if you're in the danger zone, to get out of the danger zone zone and into the thrive zone. Now's the time. And then if you have a business, And I know in every event that I speak at, there's people and there doesn't really matter what zone What matters is the decision you make to move yourself into the zone And based on what I've learned about each there's not too many people here in the danger or survival zone. Right. It's too stressful there. You want to get into the success If you want to get into that zone, then you've got to play the game at that level. And you don't have to know all the steps One of my friends you may know, Jack in visual that he shared many years ago And then I think it's I said, imagine let's say here in San Diego, and you get into a car Across the country, You turn on the headlights, out of the driveway of this hotel And then when you get there, allow you to see another three And when you get there, are the headlights to see another three or 400 yards. So you don't have to see the entire way step by step, street by street. You've got to choose the destination the 300 or 400 yards. And that's how you achieve your goals. Okay. It's called micro You set the big goal, so that you can achieve it in fractions. And every once in a while and you get over there. So is everybody filled? So what I can share with you is it's not your knowledge, it's not your skills that are the cause of the results that you have It is your habits. You and I are driven by habits at the age of everybody in this room. No exceptions. 95% of how you think what you do is habitual. We are habitual machines. We think the same things. We feel the same things. We do the same things over and over Even though we learn different things, thinking that we're changing. Change does not come from Change comes from applying information repeatedly over a period of time. And my goal has consistently been and you, is how do we create change that's a predictable and be lasting. All living organisms survive that have been genetically or and reduce short term pain or discomfort. So we are wired to reduce short term pain or discomfort We are genetically wired to save energy and we are genetically wired to stay in our comfort However, what we can do is create constructive habits through repetition. We can create constructive habits what I call deliberate conscious evolution And so you can learn and it will help you develop It'll help you reduce or eliminate, or disempowering habits so that you can And every single habit has a purpose, Every single habit somehow, somewhere so not experiencing and utilizing alcohol or drugs an emotion can become a habit So some people use food, some people use alcohol, I use gambling. Some people use whatever as a destructive from not dealing And so all habits have an anatomy to them. All right. And so if you understand the anatomy of a habit, has the trigger that instructs your brain to go into automatic mode. There's a trigger. There's always either an internal I'll show you in just a moment. Then there's a routine or behavior. Okay. Intrinsic is something that's happening happening externally. Then there is a behavior, and I'm going to say positive Not negative. All right. There's a behavior. So trigger is the cue. The behavior is what you do or don't do. And then there is some kind of reward And so every single habit has got a risk and reward to it. Every single have it's And when you repeat the rewards and you raise that dopamine in the brain or the cortisol, oxytocin or dopamine, then your brain starts And guess what? It wants more of the feel good drug. So I used to have an addiction to sugar. And what's interesting about an hour, you know, I would want something sweet. And no matter how much I exercised even before I was vegan, I had when I recognized the pattern. And I recognize as the anatomy of habits, I just apply everything I know about And within three weeks I have not had. I think I may have had a couple of bites 16 months, and I would have dessert sometimes twice, and on vacation, If I had a choice of a killer meal or dessert, whatever I could fill in at the end Sugar, for me was like an aphrodisiac. And what I found out recently sugar is eight times Wow. Eight times And so the science of changing habits, into your psyche first, the destructive habit and behavior So first, you've just got to identify what's a destructive habit So the destructive habit for me, was every night my destructive habit was I'd go I'm the only father in the world get frozen yogurt every night and go like that again tonight. My kids, It's like the dessert. They're like, no more. And so you identified First what is that destructive habit and then Then you've got to identify what is your cue? What is the cue that's triggering the routine? And this just takes a mindful awareness. There is a cue, even though it's a habit. The habit is unconscious. Right. But can you become aware of your unconscious patterns? When Glenn was up here yesterday, he talked about the four levels conscious incompetence, conscious Mark and I actually have developed a fundamental new level of thinking. It's conscious awareness of unconscious and conscious processes. You can, in a state of mindfulness and meditation, be the observer of your conscious and unconscious goals. Dreams, desires, patterns. So the next level of mastery is your consciously aware of your unconscious and conscious And that is really the level of mastery That mindfulness, What am I feeling? What am I wanting to do? What am I doing? What's working? What's not working? What's happening so frequently What's happening that's not working. See, you know why I take time to meditate and then to go on silent retreats, quiet myself down? I've got a brain that goes. I what? I'm going to ask my team. It's like I got two speeds high and off. And so it gives me a chance to just observe. Observe, live, listen, pay attention. And so you identify the cue that is triggering this, something internally So once you've identified that it could be a location, like I would never wake up thinking So for me, it was a time of day right around 90 minutes triggered and it wasn't even like right Then it would be like forced. But still have a dessert, of course. So location, Are you like, Are you feeling sad? Then you eat. Are you feeling angry? What do you what's the cue that's triggering a destructive You pay close attention, you'll realize you and I are creatures of habit. But we don't have to participate and make a conscious So the presence of a certain person. My mother has been divorced from 20 some odd 25 years. If you mention my father's name. Like a cat with her hair standing up, just mention his name She's taking the poison pill, And it's like her cue is his name. Her cue is a picture of him. They've been through apart for 25 years, habitual pattern and emotional state He's off living a happy life. He's been remarried twice, but he's 85 or 83, 83, chasing young women and catching some. You know, his rules for life You know, her rule for life is she wakes up you know, And she's got certain So what you want to find and this is going to take mindfulness, you making a decision to be aware and make a decision to release through your awareness and evolution of yourself, of your soul Are you finding immediate And when you make a decision, the instruction Then it will do that for you. Your brain is your servant. It's not your leader. Your brain is an organ that you can instruct to act as your most amazing ally, and you could tell it And there's a perfect example and you've got this monkey mind, tell your brain, Hey, monkey mind, Stop release, Let go. I'm sitting here. No matter what you want to do, you throw into my brain of not being able to calm my own brain, You ever see the picture of the elephant The elephant is represent The flea's representative It's like the flea However, if you take an elephant a chain around its ankle the elephant will try to move and lacerate You know, these When it becomes an adult, around with a small little wood The elephant won't move from that That's what your brain is like. That's what your habits are like. They are controlling your life and you've got to reclaim that power It's my habit, it's my brain, I'm going to change it. So again, there's the cue, the trigger, and then there's the reward So you might be getting You might be getting a longer term reward. And the question is, to you? And so what are the rewards and that what you want to do is identify the real hidden reasons why you're maintaining that habit? Okay. So things like I may tell you that happens from dealing with my real core pain and unresolved trauma and unresolved emotional issue and unresolved something, it could be that because of that pattern you feel appreciated or loved, there is a hidden reason why you continue that pattern. If you're in a destructive relationship for month after month, year there is a hidden reward associated with that, allowing. And we are great at hiding We are great at protecting ourselves. Remember what our brain is geared Second most important thing is making sure anything that may hurt us real And third thing that it does matches our internal map of reality, make sure that our outside world And so if we're involved in a relationship or in a behavior, is we are agreeing to allowing the internal map of our reality to exist and to be the way it is. If you want to change your reality, change the map first, change the map first, because the map is not If you took a map of San Diego and the territory wouldn't wouldn't maps of reality. So one of the reasons you don't like I had a dialog with a dear friend of mine an interesting emotion around a behavior but because he didn't want over and over and over again. That's habitual The other thing that your behavior you may feel significant. I have a friend of mine and she's been involved in a relationship that she's been miserable in for years And she's just a shopaholic. When she goes and shops, feel significant in her relationship So now they're going through a very, And so what I want you to all of this is It's to make you aware. And the more real you get, the more honest the more you upgrade your knowledge, Give you some skills the easier with yourself, the easier And so step number five and six is evaluate Evaluate Do I really feel significant or do I feel significant for a short period of time? Do I really feel significant? I look at the reasons and evaluate them. And this just takes be mindful right? Sit down, look at it and ask them, to achieve in order to do life? And six part is reframe or untrue. Reframe them. A reframe is just taking a sentence looking at it from a different angle in a different way so that you don't reinforce the neurological pattern around that action, emotion or feeling. So this is your current decision So your decisions now are being governed by an unconscious, habitual system that's associated by past rewards. Past rewards, and then your conscious goal oriented are based on anticipation So you've got a reward system and the polar opposite reward system is moving of a reward. You can imagine being at the destination and you could release the reward system, system involved in your in your brain and use that as your fuel. Why do I suggest I'm going to share with you in what you want, living in them Right now, emotion lies in them right now and you release you release the reward system you start to activate And if you can live there long enough, right there that will get you and therefore give you the unconscious reward that you want in the future and in the present. Does yours in my brain with something real or imagined. Think about this. Let's enter one of your memory systems How many of you and at home. Also, how many of you If I took my fingers and I just went like, how many of you felt Okay. Half the audience Like, how did I I'm standing here on stage. People are watching there, How did you feel that Okay, the sound, the vibration, the chemicals in your brain were release, So we played a replay of the past. So that tells me that the chalk just makes you see What if I did it a third time For every one of us, something triggers Those are the cues, the triggers for you. That's what we're talking about. Could you unlearn to feel that way? Absolutely. You could. You could evaluate you can reframe it. You can become aware. The cue that I just gave gave you a visual of a chalkboard and I'm going to do it again. But just I pretend to do that. I had to. And so what is to adopt some new habits. All right? And so what you want to do is a new behavior that stimulates the reward And you could do that do the behavior, do the habit and you can also reinforce it through mental conditioning. I could imagine visualize the new habit. I can imagine and visualize the behavior. I can imagine and visualize And my brain doesn't know the difference And if I do that over and over a new neural pathway And if I do that enough times and repeat it over a period of time, Therefore, automaticity a new habit. How do you erase it? Okay, You can't erase an old habit. You can't erase old habits All right? However, when you and the neurons that were firing actually slowed down the firing rate But there is a challenge with that trust All right. So you want to start the new pattern, and I'll share that with you. All right. And so as you learn, adopt a new habit and over again, your effort initially is a conscious effort. But over ten days, 20 days, 30 days, 80 that behavior becomes more permanent So the keystone habits that you develop are your cornerstone habits. Okay. Keystone habits are key habits So food, for example, affects your entire physiology. It affects your emotional system. It affects every part of who you are. Meditation And what I have found is every positive, helps you develop other positive, And every negative, destructive habit to other negative, destructive habits. And so if you can develop a few core habits, they will help spread And so whether you know, people ask me, do And one of the reasons that my answer is So I sleep with a CPAP machine but I have my trainer at my house at 730, And people ask me, I say, I drag my ass out of bed, and even if I do the habit is more important Just remember that the habit because I understand that habits If I can get the habit of one minute, 20 minutes, whatever it is, then the days that are great, The days are hard. I'll do 20%, 10%, 15%. And she feels bad sometimes But I want to get into the habit And here's a law when you're dealing with habits. Last in, first out, last in, first out. So the last habit that you put in is the first habit you will get rid of the last in, first out lifestyle. And so if you're developing a new habit, That's why New Year's Is the last in first out, to win with understanding how to interrupt the pattern, All right. So options for changing the behavior. Here is what the latest research If you understand the cue, the trigger, you understand the habit and you understand the reward, all you have to do is change the behavior. Even though you've got the cue, change the behavior long enough, you'll still get the reward If you change the behavior long enough, to be concerned with. So if there is a behavior and you're aware of the cue if you change just the middle piece, Change the behavior So after I gave up sugar, I used to go to to the gym. I would go downstairs especially the days when I was just tired I got into having a double espresso. I never drank coffee. Why am I having a double espresso? I said, Well, because I think I think it's giving me some, you know, And I said, like, I don't want to drink And so I changed the habit. So I'd go downstairs and the first couple of days let's go for a little walk So I just walked outside, and within three or four days I haven't had a cup of coffee So I just changed the behavior And I haven't had a coffee in, I think six months now. I am an all or nothing person. Yes. And so if you feel like grabbing a cigaret. All right, do some writing instead. Interrupt the pattern, the behavior. If you do it for a week, then two weeks, you'll be able to interrupt the pattern If you drink too much near the bar all the time, go to the library So as you feel the cue, interrupt All right. Donate $5 instead of spending something If you see you're not buying something or spending money to make you feel good. And then another way that I fulfilled I write, I share. I get on in the community, and I just contribute my thoughts ideas, And then while I am doing my meditation, I visualize and emotionally So I have my goals. I've got them laminated, I've got them for health and I've got them laminated usually I've got them in my office, and I cognitively prime my brain This is what I you to focus on. This is the beliefs These are the habits required And I get emotionally charged and then let it go. If I've plugged in, tuned in, paid then I don't have to have any tension And if I created my plan if you come to my home gym, You'll see a picture of the body you going to see what the focus is for, you're going to see, the strategic plan You're going to see my my measurement to the goal and are going to see one thing And for my physical health, my big lie. How many of you have been to my home you just saw it in Ivan I was skiing with my sons, Keenan and Noah in Colorado, and Noah was on the chairlift with me kids, Spring break. We took him to ski and all looked at me. He was 15 years old. His dad, I absolutely love spending time with you. And thank you so much Skiing and boarding is both of us are I was just like filled with so much love and like, And I looked at him I'm going to make you a promise right now. I said, I'm to get myself of my adult life He was 15, that I will take how to ski or board like I did. You and Keenan and on my vision board for my health, it says Why? And the only thing it says underneath That's my cue. That's my trigger to the story And every day when I walk in the gym and I look at my vision board I get my ass and I do what I need to do. Because sometime in the next my sons will have children. And I want to fulfill that promise. And I want fulfill it because I want to I mean it no matter how much sugar, you know, And you are more important And I'm going to show you how to do it.