Have I ever really played Mario Kart 8 Deluxe if I on the new stuff, but we do have one DK Wiggler Wiggler--exact same stats. And, okay, to anyone who am so sorry. I apologize for using this horrendous So, before a couple of months ago, Waluigi Wiggler to win would always go on Waluigi Wiggler. It was and there's so many different combos and important it's like the ugliest combo. I mean, I like the but then you throw Waluigi on it, and you throw onto it at the exact same time, and you can see never used it, but I also didn't play competitive, uh, the thing with the Wiggler is it the Teddy Buggy got buffed, and it's actually just you look at the speed in mini-turbo, I can't and the speed is exactly the same. And there's Wiggler. It's really just like a dead vehicle they buffed a whole bunch of characters Waluigi Wiggler or roller tires. Oh no, what? Oh, note to self, never use a mushroom in And it's all because I'm using Waluigi Wiggler. my lines here because I don't have good enough someone's helping me out here. Someone saw me Okay, I don't need to go up there. I of this mushroom. Do not mushroom Okay, and we still got third I mean, I'm not using the best combo in the That's an easy pick. Look, I'm playing Waluigi for those of you who don't know, I've never lost got it! Okay, I'm gonna have to focus, and the playing on this track, which is great for me, but I'm gonna be able to play this properly. I'm gonna track in a while. Yep, I just messed up so bad. On the bright side, this shortcut is pretty nothing to mess up. But I'm gonna go here, the other item. I don't trust myself to get Defense items. No, I need speed items. Top two are Alright, I'm just gonna throw all these away. I nobody gets too close to me and is able to, like, so mini-turbo, mini-turbo here. [Music] What do we Alright, so we're just gonna have to do this Here we go, left drift. Alright, perfect, perfect. Yes! I think they didn't get their bomb out in the pipe. Alright, uh, the super horn though, I for a blue shell right now. The first place That's my own banana. Oh, triple mushrooms. Okay, wow, I was not expecting that. This is really don't hit me. Yes, this is amazing. This I'm just gonna hold this because I can and it's not a huge difference by using kind of a guaranteed win right here. [Music] Oh, I have such a big lead. I'm feeling by the way. I'm never not nervous here. Okay, and I have red shells coming for me. I Please, please. Oh, that was so close. Oh, shock ruined me, and when you're small, it's red shelled, you are done. Like, I almost lost bit later, then I was done. Alright, Mount Wario I don't really know the Wario-Waluigi lore, if Mario and Luigi are the Mario Brothers, then makes the most sense. Anyway, I recently made so I'm gonna see if I can pull off we're gonna go for all these coins, and drift off of that section, release a mini-turbo. the left side. Just kidding. Yeah, I don't Don't learn from my racing. Learn from my Alright, well, let's see if I can make this work. middle path right here, and I'm in seventh, Get to this item. No, go down! No! [Music] Okay, let's not hit a tree. Oh, that banana is scary. I had to go Okay, get this coin, and let's see and got all the tricks. Okay, no, no, don't suck at it. I just make mistakes Oh, what? I know this is like a fan-favorite now. Oh, I'm in first? That bomb actually of the shortcut. That way, no one can pass me place on his brother's mountain, and knowing I usually bag on Mushroom Gorge just a little bit jump, but I am just gonna front-run this because I and I don't test myself. Like, is front-running so I'm gonna try. And, uh, obviously I'm that was what everyone was using when they wanted other good combos. You don't have to use, like, Like, focus on, like, aesthetics a little bit, Oh, they're gonna throw it at me. No! Yes! Oh, and I now have a little breakaway because of and then the Boo came, and it made me sad, Oh, I messed that up because The red shell fixed my alignment, and then it shell. I thought I was gonna be invincible from Are you--what? This combo sucks. I'm not bomb--the way that This entire race is just never let Okay, I don't want this. I want a mushroom. Yes! Wow, I still got second place. Okay, made a was so dumb. I'm--I'm just gonna bag on this Luigi Inkstriker, Yoshi Inkstriker. You have a Birdo, Birdo, Birdo, Yoshi. [laughs] Of course, It just happens to not be Waluigi anymore, but It's the same brains, just different characters. Oh, bomb up there. Oh, it's walking. I had to hit. I take that weird line because the bomb Oh, I did not see that, but there's anyway. I'm gonna grab an item right Okay, goodbye. [laughs] I'm so sorry about Wario. I just need this golden to finish Okay, and I'm not gonna activate--oh, that was gotten bulleted, but I actually activated I tried to get out of the way. Okay, I am--I That bullet's gonna find a way to What? That can happen? Are you serious? Okay, every race has been a disaster so far, Waluigi Wiggler. Oh, wow, that's an endangered in here. Actually, are Waluigi Wiggler players all just want to win and they don't care about has not hit the train. I took that really weird, So I'm up here for coins, I didn't realize Hit some snipes, nice. Nooo, when Okay, try not to get hit by anything here, and Luigi player here, I'm gonna red shell them I'm just gonna throw this actually because I'm too, but actually they're conceding first place Oh, they're right there. What the heck? How did Wow, they're still in front of me. This I don't even know how they did thank you. The shock is always finding its almost just got destroyed there, but now No, I'm just gonna hit them a second Mushrooms, yes. I can take a And the ending shortcut. Oh, this is No one could pass me. That was the perfect throw. Inkstriker is kind of just Waluigi Wiggler again, mean, I don't expect to beat people who are just why Waluigi Wiggler is now dead. Nintendo actually time was when they nerfed the invincibility stat Waluigi both have really bad invincibility they can get hit again really soon after compared the invincibility stat of those ones where they And, oops. So when they tried that the first absolutely everywhere. So instead--oh no--instead, other characters in the more important stats simply was not important enough of a stat for Wiggler is dead because they simply made it so and in fact, several combos [Music] Alright, I am not good on this track tracks with a lot of turns. I get really during the section earlier, which is really Oh, they did something really smart. hitting a blue shell, and I didn't That's how I like to take that line there. much easier, and I find personally that Okay, no, no. That's totally fine. I was surprised because my invincibility stat isn't good, but gigantic difference in invincibility. So I guess when they nerfed it. Wow, I'm out here losing startup boost. What the heck? I'm losing here Actually, it might have been lag, they're right Oh, I got--okay-- I got it. So I'm That's kind of what you want to do on this track. people, and if not--like, I don't want to be not already in first right now, I would have just they draft me or use a mushroom? Either way, I Just gonna use this then. [Music] Oh, I just want to get rid of their defense. What? do? Where was your banana? Why does that happen stuff at people and they just--their defense just the benefit of the doubt and say the Boo stole Okay, so I think we have the first place here. even have two defense items. Oh, blue shell. Hold was a great race. That pretty much showcases what into the front, and then no one can do anything come back on that track. There are no shortcuts. and there's a few reasons. One is it's a great messed up, no longer in first--but the other reason pay attention to the way that the starting line say the track starts with a left turn, right? they'll always make it so that first place starts turn is a right turn, they'll make first place making sure it's as hard as possible for first balanced, right? First place already starts at the a little bit of that advantage away by making you can go either way, and there's a coin that good to start in first place because you pretty Oh no. What? game? What the heck was and that was completely not my get rid of this. I also don't want these triple that's why you chain your items in the back, I need to get to the front right now. What Usually, a shock happens around this time, so and I'm taking the faster path I might pass some people here. Even a free Had to slow down for the item there. Didn't quite work out, but I can take a but it's fine, it's fine. I still only passed one so everything worked out great there. I feel like have gotten hit so many times. So yeah, quite a in my head to when I played Luigi Teddy Buggy GLA if I was a serious player before the DLC, I because this mini turbo stat, I think it's just with Luigi Teddy Buggy, it's just one point higher of mini turbo stats, but it's one point higher that was totally acceptable the entire time. Like, Anytime I needed a mini turbo, I felt like I could now I do not feel that way. I feel like Waluigi It's one point of mini turbo away from being good. which is good because I hate this combo. Wow, you of my fire, and then I didn't even realize I funny. All right, so we have two mushrooms well, I'm saving this for a blue shell then. train is so generous. I did not get hit by that? I That's both of my mushrooms. All right, now No, I meant to throw it This is so bad. They're taking Oh, they went the wrong way because it's mirror That was so stupid. That entire race was so my Shy Guy combo for Shy Guy Falls. At least because that's kind of a Shy Guy track as I hate this. There's a green shell right there. scary, but the nice thing about it is someone else Ah, that sucks. I don't even know what I got there's boomerang, getting out of the way. I'm gonna try the shroomless cut, like the Oh, I did it! Oh, yes! Oh, that was amazing. shroomless cuts in the entire game. I'm so happy I so it's also not a very useful one to learn unless happy with that. So, I might go for it again. It I have not time trialed the track enough What? You can fall off it-- Well, and now I got squished. Why was I shocked for so I'm so angry that I'm going to go for the This is probably really dumb because I should Yeah, I failed it. That's about right. I make times. That is 50%, guys. A little quick math for helped me out. And I'm gonna need a really good oh, we're just gonna spam all these. Need to get And we have a boost panel section, so I do Oh, bullet. I don't know where to use it. Please drop me before the and it's a bomb. What? [Music] [laughs] Oh, I some shroomless shortcutting on this non-DLC I cannot imagine the number of races that Just pretty much every non-DLC track, probably pre-DLC is Waluigi Wiggler. Also, there's a super got hit. I'm gonna use this mushroom. [Music] Oh, I didn't get hit by any of that, that was not too bad. I didn't lose too many spots. Please good. That was such a good shock. I even got shortcut. Let's go. That was amazing. Okay, I'm many mushrooms. I'm just gonna use the mushroom Okay, I'm gonna save this for a blue shell. I have a slight lead. I have to use this. for a blue shell at this point. Two defenses or a super horn would there to not be a blue shell and I probably Yes, and I dodged the plant. Nice. All right, there we go. We got a win! Yeah, Waluigi Wiggler has won on this track.