What keeps us healthy and happy as we go through life? If you were going to invest now in your future best self, where would you put your time There was a recent survey of millennials asking them what their and over 80 percent said that a major life goal for them And another 50 percent said that another major life goal was to become famous. (Laughter) And we're constantly told and achieve more. We're given the impression that these in order to have a good life. Pictures of entire lives, of the choices that people make those pictures Most of what we know about human life we know from asking people and as we know, hindsight We forget vast amounts and sometimes memory But what if we could watch entire lives as they unfold through time? What if we could study people all the way into old age to see what really keeps people We did that. The Harvard Study of Adult Development may be the longest study For 75 years, we've tracked year after year, asking about their work, and of course asking all along the way were going to turn out. Studies like this are exceedingly rare. Almost all projects of this kind because too many people or funding for the research dries up, or the researchers get distracted, or they die, and nobody moves the ball But through a combination of luck and the persistence this study has survived. About 60 of our original 724 men are still alive, still participating in the study, most of them in their 90s. And we are now beginning to study the more than 2,000 children of these men. And I'm the fourth director of the study. Since 1938, we've tracked the lives The first group started in the study when they were sophomores They all finished college and then most went off And the second group that we've followed was a group of boys boys who were chosen for the study specifically because they were and disadvantaged families in the Boston of the 1930s. Most lived in tenements, When they entered the study, all of these teenagers were interviewed. They were given medical exams. We went to their homes And then these teenagers who entered all walks of life. They became factory workers and lawyers one President of the United States. Some developed alcoholism. Some climbed the social ladder from the bottom and some made that journey The founders of this study would never in their wildest dreams have imagined that I would be telling you that Every two years, our patient calls up our men yet one more set of questions Many of the inner city Boston men ask us, &quot;Why do you keep wanting to study me? The Harvard men never ask that question. (Laughter) To get the clearest picture we don't just send them questionnaires. We interview them in their living rooms. We get their medical records We draw their blood, we scan their brains, we talk to their children. We videotape them talking with their wives And when, about a decade ago, if they would join us many of the women said, (Laughter) So what have we learned? What are the lessons that come of information that we've generated on these lives? Well, the lessons aren't about wealth The clearest message that we get Good relationships keep us We've learned three big lessons The first is that social connections and that loneliness kills. It turns out that people to family, to friends, to community, are happier, they're physically healthier, than people who are less well connected. And the experience of loneliness People who are more isolated find that they are less happy, their health declines earlier in midlife, their brain functioning declines sooner and they live shorter lives And the sad fact more than one in five Americans And we know that you and you can be lonely in a marriage, so the second big lesson that we learned is that it's not just and it's not whether or not but it's the quality It turns out that living in the midst High-conflict marriages, for example, turn out to be very bad for our health, And living in the midst of good, Once we had followed our men we wanted to look back at them at midlife and to see if we could predict who was going to grow and who wasn't. And when we gathered together at age 50, it wasn't their middle age that predicted how they It was how satisfied they were The people who were the most satisfied were the healthiest at age 80. And good, close relationships from some of the slings and arrows Our most happily partnered men and women reported, in their 80s, that on the days their mood stayed just as happy. But the people who were on the days when they it was magnified by more emotional pain. And the third big lesson that we learned is that good relationships they protect our brains. It turns out that being to another person in your 80s that the people who are in relationships where they really feel they can count those people's memories And the people in relationships where they feel they really those are the people who experience And those good relationships, Some of our octogenarian couples day in and day out, but as long as they felt that they when the going got tough, those arguments didn't take a toll So this message, that good, close relationships this is wisdom that's as old as the hills. Why is this so hard to get Well, we're human. What we'd really like is a quick fix, something we can get that'll make our lives good Relationships are messy and the hard work of tending it's not sexy or glamorous. It's also lifelong. It never ends. The people in our 75-year study were the people who had actively worked Just like the millennials many of our men when they really believed that fame and wealth were what they needed to go after But over and over, over these 75 years, that the people who fared the best were with family, with friends, with community. So what about you? Let's say you're 25, What might leaning in Well, the possibilities It might be something as simple or livening up a stale relationship long walks or date nights, or reaching out to that family member because those all-too-common family feuds take a terrible toll on the people who hold the grudges. I'd like to close with a quote More than a century ago, he was looking back on his life, and he wrote this: &quot;There isn't time, so brief is life, for bickerings, apologies, There is only time for loving, and but an instant, The good life is built Thank you. (Applause)