- Have you ever wondered - Only at 3:00 AM. - What about M&amp;Ms or balloons? In this video, we're gonna find out how these things are - I'm excited. Let's go. - We're gonna see how crayons are made. - Crayons. - I just wanted the tree gum. Oh, so it squirts the crayon - Stop saying crayons. - The packaging line - The packaging line, except for the fact that - Balloons. - Wait, those aren't balloons. - It looks like the things - Maracas? - You know what? I think we need to address this tension. I'm an idiot and I don't know the name of every item on the planet. I don't need this judgmental thing. I need you just to accept it. - I accept that you're an idiot. - All right. Wait, that's how they make the latex? - Yeah, they just dip it in and then you breathe your air in it, 'cause they pull it off the metal. - Wow, I'm gonna be honest I had no idea how balloons were made but I wasn't thinking this. - Oh, and then the grabber, obvious. - This is very interesting. Bro, humans are awesome. - That's gotta be a heart balloon. Hey, look at that, I'm a genius. - Is it gonna pop? Is it gonna pop? No! - Why do you want the balloon to pop? - Bro, don't act like Your primal instincts kicked in. You wanted to see it pop. Exactly. Now we're gonna see how jeans are made. Is that a cut out of a - They make it spontaneously - So they take a big jean - Yeah, everything starts - So for babies, do they cut - They just take normal size - Okay and then if we we just cut little jeans - Well that's stupid. - And then you sew 'em together. - Are we sure this is - Wait, whitey tighties. - Oh, we said it backwards. - No, I say tighty whiteys. - Whitey tighties. Are we supposed to see this footage? Does he know that camera's there? - I'm very excited to see made his career. Wait a minute, this is chocolate. - And now we're seeing which one of our coming up products on Feastables might be M and It's kind of crazy that on the internet. As someone who owns a snack company now, the fact that other stack &quot;Yeah, here's how we make - You say that as you how to be a successful - Right. - Now the step of putting on the first coat of candy is top secret. - Oh, it's top secret. - Their coating is top secret. - Oh, guess you can't get the secret. - Well you know what? Feastibles is gonna figure it out anyways. I'm gonna figure out how to - Even if it takes us a really long time. We should go on a tour of the factory. - Yeah, I should be like, &quot;Hey, M and Ms, we should do a brand deal, - These spectacles that - And then the next day we and they're just like, &quot;Oh.&quot; - We should launch Feastibles Ws and it's just the M and M logo - That bag of M and Ms contains exactly 25% orange, 25% blue and 12 and a half percent and green candy. - I need to fact check To figure out if there's we have to first figure out how many the total of each color is. So there's 20 M and Ms. 25%, 25%, 25%. Wait, why did green get - Yeah. - Green and brown are - Oh, so that makes up for 12 and a half. - It adds up. - Wow, good job M and M. You were factual in your statement. - So this is how light bulbs are made, oh my gosh. It's crazy that they every time they wanna make one of these. - You know, sometimes you're funny. That one wasn't. Name the difference between - These are glass. The balloons are latex would - Who would've thought making light bulbs was actually cool? Kind of crazy that every is just from something like that. - I'm sorry. I just had this mental and it doesn't work and him just going. - Oh and then just spitting all over? You can walk away but it I got spit on my hand. - I don't wanna do this anymore. - How animatronics are made. - It's a dinosaur. They used to do this a long time and then we found out a lot of dinosaurs have feathers on 'em. Now all of those are not accurate anymore. - Ooh. Is that the butt hole or an eye? - That's an eye, I really hope. Yeah, that's an eye, okay. Wow, that dinosaur has - I need a second to process that. I don't think I should be offended that my eyes aren't pretty. - They were crafted by an artist. - That, yeah. Championship chess set. - That's really cool. - You can pick up a but a wooden set, certified for the World Chess - Oh my gosh. - You can only use certified ones, right? - Yeah, now let's see how forks are made. - Forks. - So you take a sheet, you punch it, wait those are spatulas, - Oh! Those are some thick forks. - Those are thick forks. Oh, they gotta grind 'em down first, man. - Handcrafted in Korea, bro, I saw at least four instances I need to know what's the difference between handcrafted and machine crafted 'cause this one was blurring the line. Let's launch a product and lie and let's see who stops us. That's not handcrafted but This is how donuts are made. - Now you got my attention. Why did that make you laugh, Jimmy? - That looks like an onion And then you bake it? Oh wow. Bro, those are some thick donuts. - Them johns big. Oh those are cake styled and I don't like cake style. - Oh cake donuts are superior. Although I'm not a big fan when they put chocolate on it, especially that, too much chocolate. - When you told me you were gonna try and take down Hershey's, I but if you ever came to me and said, &quot;I wanna get into the donut industry and take down Krispy Kreme.&quot; I'm out. - I finally know how to get rid of him, let's start a donut shop. - Wait a minute, what was that? - Uh, I said I love you. - I love you too, man. - Tissues. Please tell me that's not I will just start blowing - The half ton bales go into a giant machine called. - So you're telling me, of recycled paper like this? If I go and I throw this away, it would get recycled - Mm hm. - Gross. - Or even as these 'cause these but different so these are - Ew. Now you know don't wash - That's why I just get one rag at the beginning of the day and blow my nose in it. - And then use that to dry your hands. Now the reason you clicked the video, how we tricked you to click on this video and watch this far, bubblegum. You did get got, we're gonna Are you ready? - Today it's synthetic, made of plastics and rubbers. - What? - I swallowed some of this earlier. - They use plastic and rubber - Probably only the really - Interesting. - I'm just gonna go ahead I have swallowed more in my life. - I'm doing great, I'm doing great though. - So they take plastic or rubber. - And then they pour paint on it and then they put it in a dumpster and it comes out looking like that. - Nothing about this Ah. - Oh, dude, I just wanna and have it just go ah. - That would be fun. - Oh my God, I think on the bubblegum that we're - Yeah, oh and there's the wrapper. It is the same one we're eating. This gum is horrible, don't buy it. - It's got plastic in - You're chewing plastic and rubber out of a trash can. - When I get hungry, you chew gum 'cause then you, you know? - I have no idea what he said. That was cool. - You wanna see cool? - Yeah. - You hit Walt too. - Wait, Walt, I'm sorry. - Hot sauce. - Within hours of harvesting, the factory grinds the peppers. - The factory collects the peppers, that's why there's just - Then they spread a layer of salt over the top. - Wait, why is there salt? - To make sure no ghosts get in there. - No but seriously, does it sift through? - Salt repels ghosts. - Really? - Screw you. You know what, you're gone, you're done. Why do they put salt on it? - Because salt is a natural preservative, I'm sorry, I couldn't risk it. - How? It's outside the barrel. - 'Cause no bugs are gonna wanna go in to any crevices or cracks and they stay away from it. - Okay, well then just say that. - You want me to be funny or - In that instance, informative. - I don't know which hat - Well right now you have - I'm not wearing any hat. He's like, &quot;Mm, smells like red paste.&quot; - You know what would've been funny? That shot he's like, &quot;Smells great.&quot; I'd love to see him then just and then just throw it back in. - The quality control department analyses samples from - Just constantly squirting hot I'm not making fun of your job, I'm just saying that's - How to make a chocolate sculpture. - Is that penis? - Oh okay. - Is it possible to make a dinosaur without it looking like a penis? - No. - Prove me wrong. - 0 percent. - Why make it out of chocolate if you're gonna spray it in paint? - That's not paint, it's edible powder. - I don't think I wanna eat it. It's cool, don't get but I'm not eating it with his hands all over it. And with that, subscribe, goodbye.