Welcome to the fourth lesson... ...your pale portrait is finally going Bringing a painting to ...so pay attention and don't rush! When I compare the art with this self-portrait ...I see a world of difference. I used to use much more colour My paintings had to be bright as if I hadn't yet mastered the intricacies the colours I used did not bring out ...and my shadows had less depth. My genius still needed time to develop... ...but like all skilled painters I expect no less from you. I have explained to you that certain colours ...and told you about opaque If you have paid attention ...you will have painted your underpainting This involves starting with ...and switching to thicker Please make sure that your primer has properly ...otherwise everything will bleed into each other, In a bright, dry, warm room, Patience is a virtue, Today I will be revealing how Look into the dead eyes of the ...we are going to make them We will achieve this by adding colour. If you are a true student of Rembrandt, The colours that I use are made from pigments ... and the rest of Europe. If you really want to ...paint with animal charcoal, Ask your paint supplier for ...or green earth. You will also need vermilion ...alizarin red, red ochre or and titanium white. In fact, these are all the colours I used If you want to paint jewels or ...transparent yellow is perfect. Before we get acquainted with real colour, ...let me give you a free tip. To make the colours you are going I use oil with a touch of lead. It is similar to standard linseed oil, ...they all dry faster. This also makes your colours ...which might come in handy. Use it sparingly, otherwise ...which the subsequent layers of As I believe that a good portrait benefits ...we will use thin, transparent colours Simply paint the colours over your primer. Take a good look at your underpainting. Do you see the light that shines through the transparent If you paint over the darker parts of the ...these parts look darker. Study the composition again, They are all still there... ...which is why you can overwork areas The best thing to do is start by using ...to apply transparent splashes ...and then blend the paint thinly If you roughly follow this method... ...you will see that the deathly face that is ...has finally obtained a bit of colour. Don't worry that you are ruining As long as your colours are thin and transparent enough, However, this can happen if you start applying thick, Now, let's see... what colours I can imagine that your ...but keep things simple I recommend using burnt sienna... ...or red ochre for the skin colour. If you want to make your face come to life, You don't have to mix anything For example, use green umber ...a yellowish colour around the eyes... ...or try a bluish tint for dark hair. As long as you keep your colours thin, You have more or less covered your canvas, ...with transparent paint for Your portrait has a coloured wash... ...which may have lost some of the depth... ...and blurred the differences between The picture may even have lost... ...the beautiful contrast ...that you had concentrated on We've reached the stage of applying To make the colours in your portrait stand out more, ...I am going to show you a technique To retouch the portrait, the handful of pure colours ...you need to mix your own palette. Apply the mixed colours to the It is best to use a soft-haired brush... made with ox hair; Even the shape of your soft-haired With a round cat's tongue made from sable hair, ...whereas a thin, round soft-haired brush made with ...and a flat, straight soft-haired I also like to use this type of thin, ...to draw certain details in paint... ...such as the outline ...a nostril, the contour line of a chin... even the pages of the book or the bejewelled Don't hold back, Instead of using brown and ...it might be a good idea to mix in dark Apply the colours next to each other on the canvas This creates flowing colour Do the same with the light sections. In fact, it is the same technique ...although now you are using It is better to start colour ...because in general Then, from the dark, work back ...by mixing colours with more I hope I am not speaking too soon, dear pupil, I feel lighter now we have Colours are your friends... ...your magic ingredient. In the next lesson... ...I want to share another secret to help your portrait 'sing'... ...glazing.