Famine. The brainwashing of your friends, family, and everyone you love in a labor camp or, worse, listening to foreign music. some North Koreans to bear. few take their lives into their own hands, so they can start new lives in other countries. alive have been falling since 2005. According to in that year. The numbers generally increased Then, it all started going downhill. people who successfully escaped kept declining, since 2005 - just 1,047 people. And with it, North Korea panicked to the even shutting down trade into the country. Just only 63 people make it away from North Korea. 67 escaped in 2022 - but Statista says that 319 North Koreans had successfully fled. Many have escaped and then disappeared into new find them. However, a select few have stories to North Korea managed the feat in 2023. At the beginning of 2023, he pulled off a daring mother, his brother's family, and his heavily Mr. Kim - accompanied by a plainclothes "There has been a lot of suffering," he said as coronavirus pandemic. Kim says that life in North with the state broadcasting images of people while instituting hard rules about what North Propaganda ramped up. - were told that failing to follow the new being wiped out. Whenever a case of COVID-19 quarantine an entire town or village. The people access to food outside of what was already Kim says that North Korean forces used After locking a town down for several days government would arrive in trucks to deliver food cheaply. But the reality was that the state Kim says they'd make these claims to receive them a small amount, so it would thank you." He began to question the state, believing that than instituting quarantines to help North Korea's survived COVID-19, he began to question whether to believe that North Korea's harsh lockdowns simply an excuse to suppress people. By closing its borders, North Korea had Food prices rocketed, and families were left wake up one morning and hear: 'Oh, someone in this rolling in, with Kim pointing out that even North food supplies. The state would force those leaving them with precious little to eat. Korea applied to the World Food Regardless, Kim managed to survive in these up as a "grasshopper seller" - a peddler of afford stew for his family. As Kim pointed out, Still, Kim was far from comfortable. Being a people are constantly willing to report you for another North Korean could get their hands on that he often had to make quick escapes when he packing up his merchandise and going into hiding He says that he'd fantasized about escaping attempt. But it was the tragic death of one of his wanted something simple to achieve in most other told him that divorce wasn't possible unless Kim's friend was devastated. He accumulated more marriage until it all became too much. He says that a visit to that friend's bedroom was According to Kim, his friend has clawed the walls out. That's how he knew that he needed to escape. had a family in North Korea that he didn't want he formulated would have to involve them. It was an easy task to convince him. Along with selling illicit seafood. The state cracked down, he had his own boat. When Kim came calling, to plan an escape with him. The brothers spent seven months plotting their challenges. Many of the traditional escape northern border with China - had been cut over on foot wasn't an option. Thankfully, it lived in the southwest of the country, giving them But they couldn't simply jump into Permission to access the waters they'd use brother enrolling in a military scheme. He the military said, as long as he caught fish that As Kim's brother set to work in an "official" security guards and coastguards who patrolled learning about their shift patterns with the right timing, he and his brother could The plan had started to take shape. complete - convincing his wife and elderly mother The risks were simply too great. Eventually, convinced his mother to make the trip by telling she'd be responsible for his misery if she stayed. But to Kim, it was necessary to ensure his wife proved a tougher nut to crack. until she discovered that she was pregnant. Kim now going to be responsible for another life, and There was still more to do before Kim could may treat his father's grave when he left relatives is apparently common in North Korea - body into the nearby wilderness, Kim says that he into an urn to take them with him. long time, his family was united. Kim would need to navigate a minefield in the to pick herbs, Kim slowly mapped out a route planted to stop people from leaving. It was a patrolled because the mines were supposed to be time. Worked out his route. And with the minefield Wait. the weather and the tide to be in his favor if his day when the low tide and rainy weather could be weather. That would make his boat easier to spot. which would usually only come when a storm was obscure himself from North Korea's radar systems, he could make his final push successfully. issued, and the tide was coming in. Kim and his his brother's boat. By 10 p.m., they were in the his brother's agreement with the military. The low tide worked in Kim's favor. It exposed his family used to disguise their small vessel boats in the water. That, combined with the floating rubbish. Slowly but surely, Kim's boat it was safe to pick up speed. According to Kim, he looked back to see a was escaping. But the vessel it had sent simply family managing to ride the currents until they "In that moment, all my tension released," Free for the first time of North Korea's towards the island of Yeonpyeong, flashing Navy spotted and rescued him and his family. Ever wary of North Korean spies, the South Korean family for interviews to determine if they were the service then placed him and his family taught about life in South Korea. In October 2024, the family moved into an wife to give birth. Small things that seem so alien to Kim and his family. But they are ingratiate themselves into their new society. says when talking about his new life. Speaking a plane flying through the sky when he lived And thanks to a special job fair held for of landing his dream role as a ship's navigator. Korean defectors escape the country in 2023. North Korea every year, the country's border Pastor Stephen Kim, who works for JM Missionary points out, about 1,000 people used to make Since the pandemic, that number has dropped to four of those escapees who managed to he suspects, were detained in China That leaves only the sea as an option for in North Korea points out. He says that the Mr. Kim have always been rare - unsurprising many likely don't succeed. "These sea escapes take everything to go miraculously well," he says. who have tried but not made it." Though not all of the details of his daring it's clear that he placed himself (and his And he's not the only one. we have from a North Korean defector in 2023, he's In October 2023, several news outlets, including of suspected defectors who were discovered by had made their crossing in a small wooden boat, Korea. They were found on the coast near Sokcho few details are known about this group. Kim and his family, meaning they would have been resettlement facility. But in this case, the South perhaps to protect the anonymity of these followed the blueprint created by Mr. Kim. evade the larger ships patrolling North Korea's to blend in with the boulders and reefs that Like Kim, these four And sadly, any future defectors will likely into China isn't an option anymore. And that's its defenses against defection across its border. In December 2023, the South China Morning Post Korean diplomat to Beijing. These rare talks are its relationship with North Korea, with the two communication and coordination." geopolitical scale isn't fully known. into China, this increased cooperation spells bad the South China Morning Post article points out "disappearing." Reuters highlights information or TJWG, which claims that China sent 600 North TJWG says those 600 people have simply vanished. imprisonment - perhaps in North Korea's labor now that they're back "home." TJWG says that the driven back into North Korea, with the incident Most of those sent back were women. especially given that North Korea's state For its part, China has downplayed its actions, weren't true defectors. Instead, they with Beijing sending them back being a simple case Many would disagree. it would appear as though a deal has been struck. is sending defectors back to a country that will death sentence. Escaping into China simply isn't to see more groups being sent back to Pyongyang So, North Korean defectors are faced with they could try to take advantage of the fact that China to try to escape in the traditional way. It Pyongyang has boosted border security to cross now than it was before the pandemic. they'll enter a country that's just as likely Or, they do what Mr. Kim, his family, and wooden boat did - brave the dangerous waters that that may be an even more difficult route out of ships. Radar systems. They all combine to stop successful at least make it to South Korea and a Alternatively, there's a third option. of 2023 saw 40 North Korean defectors leave that the threat of repatriation is so high to defect again, leaving the place they've possibility of being sent back to North Korea. Rights - one of few organizations allowed to that most of the 40 came from China and that Perhaps two border crossings over By crossing into China before immediately making chance to start their new lives without braving still face risk. Beyond mass deportations, China in prison, according to the United Nations. life in China, or use China as an opportunity to routes of escape, and yet over 300 North Will 2024 see more escapees manage Only time will tell. But right now, we want about Mr. Kim's story and his brave escape. Do this perilous journey in 2024, or will along with China, prevent more