Welcome to Kuala Lumpur, the This is our first time exploring one of the so what better way to do it than by while trying the amazing flavors Like, I have to eat the anchovy? Yeah. That is one of the best things I've ever drank. We found it. We finally found a Ramly Burger. I see why Malaysians love their food so much. But first, breakfast. You can't talk about breakfast in so we're headed to a KL staple, Mansion Tea Roti canai is a flatbread dish but we first heard about it here in Malaysia. It's made by flipping dough until to create layers before it's placed on a flat top. The vendors always seem to slap too, and to be honest, we have no I want the pulled tea. What's the pulled tea? To drink, I decided to get a kopi which is a Malaysian specialty. &quot;Tarik&quot; means &quot;pulled&quot; because the vendors have This is the first time we've ever seen This is really, really good. Is it? This is the best- yeah, the best coffee I've had. Mm. So good. We went with the roti canai special, which is a lentil curry and a local chili sauce. It also comes with a regional I've never had it like this So, I'm going to try just a Mm. It's so good. It's so flaky and buttery. Get a little bit of this Mm. It's really rich and really decadent. This is unlike any roti canai I've had I don't typically prefer eggs this my preferred method of eating it, but It's kind of like a...like Mm. Mm-hmm. We are super full from this roti canai. Now that we sufficiently stuffed we were ready to take on the day. Kuala Lumpur is home to a whole including the second tallest building in It's also got a ton of green So we've been walking, and we realized we're actually on a There's this really big mural, and we just I don't know what it's for. It looks like it says something Nanas Bukit, so I'm not really sure, but it's pretty and not I can already see our next location but it's still a little ways away. It's about another 25-minute walk to the so we've decided to take public We got our tokens. Two stops. The metro drops you right off at Suria KLCC, a six-story mall right at the foot We'll do anything we can to stay in the and Ashley can always find a good excuse to shop. These look lovely. This is what I'm talking about. They're satin-draped jogger pants, my love. We're supposed to be vlogging. Now that Ashley has her satin drape jogger what's its, it's time to check out the Boasting the title of the world's tallest Not only that, the Skybridge is the tallest two-story bridge in the world. You can get tickets to enter the tower and check out the sky bridge for around $38 a that's just outside of our budget, so we're However, if you're interested in checking out online at GetYourGuide using We've heard that this place can fill to get their iconic shot at the KLCC Twin Towers. There are even photographers set up with just the right rig to get you that perfect I don't know if it was a good at the hottest part of the day, but either way... There they are. Tallest twin towers in the world. Now, it's time to hop back on the check out the Petaling Street Market, one We just got off at the LRT and went to Chinatown, second-tallest building in the entire world, its big buildings, but this is called the Merdeka this little pokey-out thing at the top, which I like the kind of the- the funky architecture. This market is well known for selling a shoes, bags, watches, and sunglasses. We don't really have any room for anything like you're in the market for a knockoff Cartier, then However, we came here for a different reason. So it's sticky rice, yeah? Uh, yeah. Sticky rice with peanuts and sugar. Okay, five ringgit? Okay. Terima kasih. Okay. Thank you. Alright, so it's glutenous sticky and she said there's different flavors. It's so good. Mm-hmm. Very good. Sedap. Sedap. Yes. Mango is also a nice one. Oh, mango? Okay, thank you. Very good. Yeah. It's very good. I think this is the mango. Mm. Mm-hmm. Thank you so much. It's, like, not super overly sweet, but delicious. Mm-hmm. [indiscernible] Google, and then they have social media. Oh, my God. So good. Okay, so I've got this I don't know what flavor it is. I Oh, wow. That is so good, and you're right; This one is the- hello. The ladies are more sweet. Yeah. The lady is sweeter than this one. Right. Yes. Oh, 100%. 100%. 100% sweet. She's made of 100% sugar, and this is 50% sugar. Welcome. Thank you. Oh, don't get run over. So this is the, uh, the black sesame one. Mm, that's so good. I'm going to try the pandan now. She was right. I like the mango one the best. They're really good. Mm. Where you from? Where? Uh, United States Very good. Your big country. The Maybe. Sometimes. Really. You are welcome. Thank you so much. It was nice meeting you. Thank you. Bye. Terima kasih. Mm. These are so good. Alright, so I'm not going to to come to Petaling Street because we overpriced kind of like trinkets and Uh, but it's actually really cool. , There's a lot more food vendors than I thought I'm actually glad that we came here, so we're I'm actually craving something a little bit but right as I say that, I see and I know that we're going to This guy is famous for his Yeah. We're definitely going to try those. Those sound amazing. Here we go. This place is called Long Apam Balik, and Mr. Long has been serving two Apam Balik is a traditional peanut pancake dessert similar to the martabak He also makes these little coconut pancakes, Okay, so I've got my coconut pancake. Smells amazing and very, very buttery. Mm. That is the best coconut pancake I've ever had. Like, we've had the ones in Mm. I see why he's famous. You want to tell him what you did? Hmm. We had this lovely interaction with that man. He's been selling these pancakes for 50 very sweet, and I didn't film any I'm filming this time, don't worry. Good. So silly. It's very That looks amazing. Yeah, it does. This is the peanut pancake. When he was making them, the peanut and the coconut pancakes are This kind of reminds me of martabak from rich thing ever, so I'm excited It's not at all like martabak. It looks similar, but this is It's like more dense, but it is so good, It's like just a little bit sweet. Mm. I do love peanuts. Alright, so we've made our way back to and we are tired of standing and walking, There's a lot of little food courts and this area, so we're going to try and find I got you, Bae. Ashley, coming in clutch with the fan. Good purchase. Yeah, I think so. Thanks, Baby. Walking through KL is always an adventure. It's such a melting pot of cultures, which You can feel the influences everywhere, So, as we were walking, looking we walked past this beautiful temple, It's a free school that teaches Mandarin to kind of reconnect them with their These two statues out front with the dragons or So, we were not planning to We're actually trying to get back to because we just saw that Chinese temple and we It is so colorful and beautiful, and After winding our way through the alleys, Old China Cafe is a historic A former guild hall, this building and is decorated with countless The interior and ambiance was such a vibe. We couldn't wait to try some I think I'm going to get a Sour Plum juice. Sounds good. It does sound good. They've also got Soursop The Soursop is chef-recommended, I'll trust the chef. This place looks really good. So, we're in a pre-war building, It feels like we've transported back to like the is at least 100 years old, which is pretty crazy And we decided to go with a Nonya which is supposed to be very, very delicious. It's curry cooked in coconut milk. A little bit spicy, and the server so I'm going to give it a spin. Ashley got some Soursop Oh, I'm going to try it first? Yeah, it looks so good. Yeah, look at this. It's like super bright green. Reminds me of Hi-C Ecto Cooler. The chef recommended it. Actually, he recommended everything we got. It's amazing. Is it? Yeah. Oh, my gosh. I don't even know It's like definitely fresh pureed. You can hear them working on it back there. That is incredible. That is one of the best things I've ever drank. What is a Soursop? There's some of it in here. It's delicious, whatever it is. It's, like, impossible to chew, but it's This looks delicious. So, Nonya food is actually more of a Melakan dish. It's a Chinese and Malay influence. This butterfly pea rice looks beautiful. This smells so good, and I am We had a rendang in, uh, Bali, so I have high expectations for Alright. Oh, wow. That is insanely delicious. This is- this is the best rendang I've ever had. I know we still have a lot more food to but also, I would totally eat this on It's like coconutty and spicy, but not really fragrant and just like, &quot;oh!&quot; Mm. That was exactly what we needed to Now, let's get back to this This place is an Instagrammer's dream. Filled with fun street art, The artwork and decorations of so we knew we had to check out So we ended up at this place called Concubine. Uh, we weren't going to have a drink, and we were capturing so much footage that so I got Green Day, which is this gin concoction. It's got kiwi cucumber it's even got a Candi Oh, my God. That is amazing. Okay, if these weren't 45 ringgit but we still have a lot of food to so I'm going to keep it to just This is definitely a craft cocktail. Ow. And I got the Bunga Kantan Fizz, which is Kantan Cordial, which I'm not really sure Ah, got that egg white froth up at the top. It's so good. It's so well-balanced, and Don't smell it, though. Egg white fizz at the top Mm. If you're in the mood for a good cocktail, It is such a vibe. There are a so you know it's a cool place to be. We're doing our absolute best to hit so we felt it was important to get just side of the city, so we're going to head Now we're at Kampung Baru. I think out of all the places we've been today, this might be the one that feels most our vibe, &quot;Kampung&quot; means &quot;village,&quot; a local village just blocks away from the We've been off the railway for about 0.2 seconds, It is super cute and definitely very local. It's crazy that there's just this little tiny, almost village-type-looking place It's actually one of the last Believe it or not, this little neighborhood is one of the most valuable tracks Established in 1899 with &quot;Kampung Baru&quot; means &quot;New Village,&quot; and maintain their traditional lifestyle Ashley is actually getting pretty good at telling directions after one year of I'm actually really impressed with her. Super We got a couple foods we're looking for. I'd love to try some mee rebus. I'd and I am dying for a Milo ice right now. All of this walking around, and Luckily, there's a pretty sweet little This is so cute. One of the dishes we've been the national dish of Malaysia, a place on the street that you have Don't get run over. What's up, guys? Yo, what's up? How are you? Hello. Is it good? Yeah. Yeah, good? What's the best to get? Uh, Nasi Lemak. Just Nasi Lemak? Okay. Alright. Sedap? Yeah, very delicious. Good good. Alright, we'll try it. Thank you so much. Ayam masak merah. Huh? Ayam masak merah. What's that? Ayam. Chicken. Chicken. Yeah, yeah. Ayam: chicken. Ayam masak merah. Masak merah? Yeah. Oh, okay. What does masak merah mean? Spicy. Spicy. Oh, good. Pedas, yeah? Rendang. Rendang. Pedas? Ayam masak merah? Okay. Nasi lemak. Ayam masak merah. Yeah, good. Okay. Yeah, thank you. Alright, Where are you from? Huh? Oh, uh, from America. United States. Oh, yes. Yeah. Yeah. It was nice meeting you guys. Yeah. Thank you so much. They're so nice. I know. Alright, so makan. Dine in. What did they say to get? [Masak merah]. [Masak merah], which is spicy chicken? Yeah, they said nasi lemak ayam [masak merah]. [Masak merah]. Okay. Alright. Anytime somebody recommends Yeah, 100%. Unless it's super seafood-y. [indiscernible] Oh, okay. Yeah. Uh, one. One. Uh, ayam masak... Merah? Yeah. Sauce? Yeah. Little. Little. Alright, anchovy? Cucumber? Yes, please. Do you want a boiled or fried egg? That one. Okay. This is like a conveyor belt. We're going. We have a potato cake. Oh, yes. Potato. Want to try? Two, please. Two, alright. Dua. Dua Fried chicken, chicken sauce, and Do you want fried chicken or chicken with sauce? Um, either. Which is better of these two? I recommend for you this one. I had randang for my last meal. Oh. You want to try the- we'll try the rendang. Yeah, yeah. If she says it's good, we'll try it. Yeah. If that's your recommendation. Yeah. Okay. Another? Uh, yeah. Oh, another? No, that's good. Yeah. [indiscernible] No, I think we're good. Thank you. Terima kasih. Thank you. Terima kasih. Sama-sama. Hi. Hello. Any drink? Huh? Any drink? Uh, yeah. You have, uh, Milo ice? What do you want? Uh, same. Uh, dua. It is so hot out. We've been walking around, so It's so good. This is like the richest, most just and I love chocolate drinks, and like, savory dinner food with a chocolate iced Oh, my God. It's a new favorite. Cheers. Milo ice for the win. Alright, let's eat this food. So, I know that this is a little bit of and had I known that this was going to be what I would have maybe tried something you turn down someone's recommendations So, we're here. We're at the place that's These little guys are the- similar, I think, to what we've had in Indonesia, and What are they? Mm. Delicious. I don't remember what they're called. They're the potatoes, right? Yeah, they're like little potato Oh, my God. Look at this. Look at this chicken. There's so much good chicken on here. A little bit of- I'm going to build a little bit of sambal here, and I know but we're going to build one perfect bite. Get a little bit of these little crispy anchovy and I don't think I'm going to like them cuz I but you have to try it the way it's meant to be. Oh, my God. That is amazing. So much more flavor than the Really? Yeah. Sorry, Old China. It's packed with flavor, and comes from the rendang or the sambal or both. It's an incredible rich flavor. a little bit of sweetness, and a ton of perfect even though it's just been sitting It's really, really good, and I actually like the little crisp from the little ikan Mm. Mm. This might be the Even with the anchovy? Like, I have to eat the anchovy? Yeah. Ew! Just do it. I don't like seafood. I don't either. Is it fishy? No. Smells fishy, and you got the sambal, too? Yup. Oh, dear. Alright. That's a whole lot of fishiness. Alright. So, you know how everybody kept yelling at us about not trying the fish sauce in I kind of think that's the same We've literally been avoiding them because neither of us likes They add a nice little crunch and a saltiness, I think we've been- I think we've been doing Yeah. So weird. And yeah, Milo for the win. It's a weird combination with Before leaving this area, we had to make our way back to check out one of the most First we needed to grab a viewpoint snack, What is this? This one is our Malaysian jam. Malaysian jam? Yeah, we call it Kaya. Oh, cool. Yeah. Can we, I guess, do five? Do you want five or ten? Five. This jam. Oh, okay. Yeah. Cool. Yeah. Oh, wow. Those look really good, too. This one is waffle stick. Oh, waffle stick. Yeah. Looks good. Did you see they have chocolate? What? No, I didn't. That's us. Ah, Ashley. Yeah, she's Ashley. Nice to meet you. How do you say; Mikey or? Mike. Just Mike. Yeah. Mike. Subscribe. Oh, thank you so much. Thank you so much. Thank you. Alright, we are very excited to try these. What do you call these? We call kaya ball. Kaya ball. Yeah. Kaya ball. I'm excited for kaya ball. Thank you. Terima kasih. Ah, sama-sama. Bye! Come again. Oh, thank you. Alright, you want to go try them on the bridge? Yeah, let's try them on the bridge. Alright, let's go. Everyone is so sweet here. I know. They're so nice. Elevator or stairs? Elevator. Stairs. Camera away. Stair. This is pretty. Wanna try our...kaja? Kaya. Kaya. Our kaya, whatever they're called. Kaya balls. Kaya balls, yeah. So, this is kaya jam inside, which Oh, wow. It's- the consistency reminds me of pandan, These are so good. I don't even know what to Okay. That is amazing. I don't even know what the jam tastes It's like a really good little pancake ball.