I fell into the Moloch trap, when there was no real game at play. There was no game. The game was a complete artificial narrative in my head. That, I think, is a part of the Moloch trap. So it's like this idea of false zero-sumness. And remember, there's no fixed rules, So I'm literally inventing a game that doesn't exist, depends on where I'm looking. a thought leader around leadership itself. He's written a number of books, including Find Your Why, Leaders Eat Last, and most recently, The Infinite Game. And The Infinite Game is one of the reasons I wanted to speak to him, because it arguably captures the win-win ethos better than almost any book I've ever read. We also get into the topic of speaking. I actually got to know Simon on the speaking circuit where I would be standing on the side and waiting for my turn to go, absolutely wracked with nerves, and then see him go out there and just deliver the most beautiful talk that enraptures audiences. And he shares some of his secrets of how he does that in this conversation as well. He's also a fierce optimist, and we explore his approach to harnessing the power of optimism, even in difficult times. So lots of good stuff. I loved speaking to him. I hope you enjoy it much as I did. Let's dig in. So, Simon, you wrote this book called Infinite Games, which is probably the most win-win book I could imagine. It's actually based off James Kars's Finite and Infinite Games. I guess, to start with, can you explain what the Infinite Game is, or what the difference is between these two types of games? as Dr. Karr's defined, a finite game is defined as known players, fixed rules, and an agreed-upon objective. Football, baseball. If there's a winner, necessarily they have to be losers. And more important, there's always a beginning, a middle, and an end, always. Infinite games are defined as known and unknown players, which means you don't necessarily know who all the players are and new players can join at any time. The rules are changeable, which means every player can play however they want, and the objective is to perpetuate the game, to stay in the game as long as possible. We are players in infinite games every day of our lives, whether we know it or not. There's no such thing as winning global politics. You will never win career. Nobody's declared the winner of career. There's no such thing as winning business. Businesses are playing, they're doing their thing, but nobody wins business. Which, if you think about it, when you listen to the language of so many leaders, what I find so curious is they don't know the game they're playing in. So many leaders who are playing in infinite games talk about being number one, being the best, or beating their competition. Based on what? Based upon what agreed upon metrics, objectives, and timeframes. And this becomes a problem, and this is where it overlaps with your work, which is when you play in an infinite game with a finite mindset, when you play to win, when there is no finish line, there are some consistent and predictable outcomes. The big ones are the decline of trust, the decline of cooperation, and the decline of innovation. And so win-win is recognizing, and business is like this, business is an infinite game, that multiple companies selling similar products, similar services, about the same price, about the same quality, can all be wildly successful simultaneously. GALEN HOOKS Okay, so what happens if you use an infinite mindset in a finite game? PAUL KINLAN Well, that's not very good either. Because if you're playing football, for example, and while you're in the game, you're not really concerned about what the score is at the end of the game because you know the game will go on forever. Well, you're going to lose because there is actually an end to the game, and there is one declared a winner and one declared a loser, so that's no use. You have to play with the mindset and the rules of the game that you're in. So if you're in a finite game, you have to play with a finite mindset. This is where things get a little more fun, the infinite game is not the absence of finite games. It's the context within which those finite games exist. For example, when you're actually playing on the field, playing the game, of course you should be playing to win, of course. However, you're also practicing, you're also developing relationships with the other players, you also have a coach. And the best coaches, ironically, the John Woodins and folks like him, the best coaches, the most successful coaches in the world, ironically, are not obsessed with winning. They're obsessed with team building. They're obsessed with the relationships that their players have so that when they play the finite game, they're more likely to win. And so the infinite games can still exist because you're not always in a finite game. And same in business. There are finite games in business, of course. If you're in a pitch, there's an agreed upon timeframe. There's going to be an adjudicator. Someone's going to choose, we want to work with you or you. there's going to be a winner, and there's going to be a loser. You're going to win a pitch, or you're going to lose a pitch. But then it continues. That game is over, but now you continue to play the infinite game of business. An election. An election is a finite game. There's a beginning, middle, and end. There's agreed upon rules, there's only one winner, there's going to be losers. but the minute you win your election, you now have to stop playing the finite game of win my election, win my election, and you now move into governance, or governing, which is now infinite mindset. The problem we have in our political system, for example, is they're always playing to win the election, even when they're not in an election. Is that a function of the time horizons between these little finite games within the infinite game of politics is too narrow, because it's only a four-year term? Is that the cost you pay for having these short-term cycles? I mean, there's no simple answer to that. In the UK, the length of a campaign is governed by law. There's a time for campaigning, so everybody knows it starts. If you have a certain amount of TV, the other person has to be on TV an equal amount of time, so they govern a fairness. In America, our elections seem, they start campaigning earlier and earlier and earlier. There's a whole host of reasons for that. And I guess at a macro level, which would explain the election component, but also why too many of our business leaders are playing with an excessive amount of finite mindset, is we have misaligned incentive structures. Too much money in the system. Let's back into it. You have misaligned incentive structures where I'm going to bonus you based on a short-term result. So the number of people who get individual pay packages, not team pay packages, not group pay packages, based on the price of the equity, that means the only thing I really care about is the end of the year or the end of the quarter because my pay package depends on it. And so I will make decisions that may be bad for the longevity and survivability of this company, but shit, I got rich along the way. And there's businesses littered with case studies like that. Let's take one really quick one, Kodak. Kodak, huge company. They invented film as we know it, self-contained on a stool film, yes. George Eastman invented that, the founder of Kodak. And they invented many, many things, because George Eastman's obsession was democratizing and simplifying photography, which used to be complicated, expensive, caustic, dangerous. And he made it simple and safe, and anyone can do it. you just drop it in and go. Kodak made its money from chemicals, from film, from processing, from paper, huge enterprise. In 1973 or 1975, a Kodak engineer invented the digital camera. And when he showed it to the executives, they couldn't imagine having to completely cannibalize and undo this huge company they had for this new technology, so they decided to suppress the technology. And they weren't that stupid. They knew that once the genie's out of the lamp, there's no putting it back. And so they predicted that they had about a 10-year window. And sure enough, to the year, They actually, their prediction was really good. Exactly 10 years later, digital cameras started to show up on the market by Canon and Fuji, so Japanese companies, and funnily enough, they were using patents, they were using licenses licenses for the patents that Kodak owned. It was actually Kodak technology. They became a thing, and on paper, and in reality I guess, Kodak made tons of money on the patents, on the licenses. And then the patents ran out, and Kodak went into steep decline and eventually declared bankruptcy. But the executives who made those decisions, they weren't around long enough for Kodak to be destroyed. And so they got very, very rich making short-term decisions, where had Kodak been willing to take the short-term hit to reconfigure their company, and they had 10 years to do it, but they didn't have to do it in one year. Is the infinite mindset different to just long-term thinking? The problem with the term long-term thinking is what is long-term? And long-term, if you go back a bunch of years, as you go back a few decades, companies would have 10 and 20-year plans. Now when you talk to companies about quote-unquote long-term thinking, we're talking like a five-year plan, and most companies don't even have a five-year plan. And if they did have a five-year plan, they're probably not sticking to it, because again, there's a lot of misaligned incentive structures. And so infinite we can all agree on. We know what that is. Stay in business for as long as possible. And I'll give you a great, great, great example of what happens, because I talked about decline of innovation. And the problem with a finite mindset is you're always competing against someone. But as we've already established in an infinite game, there's no one to beat. The only one to outdo is yourself. You should be competing against yourself. Now, there are other players in the game. You have to be aware of them. You have to know what they're doing. You can learn from them. Their strengths will reveal to you your weaknesses so that you can improve, but there's no such thing as beating them. And when companies do come up to me and say, well, you know, we are number one, I'm like, based on which metrics that you chose, based on which time frames that you chose. And if somebody really does, like, no, no, Simon, we are number one, my answer's always the same. I always go, for now, for now. That's the whole infinite game. Nobody stays in any position. It's always for now. So I'll give you a real life example that I experienced that captured it so perfectly, the different mindsets. So this goes back a bunch of years. I spoke at an education summit hosted by Microsoft. And a few months later, by sheer coincidence, For instance, I spoke at an education summit hosted by Apple. At the Microsoft summit, the vast majority of the executives spent the vast majority of their presentations, because I sat in the back of the room, talking about how they were going to beat Apple. At the Apple Summit, 100 % of the executives spent 100 % of their presentations talking about how they were going to help teachers teach and help students learn. So one was obsessed with their mission and how they could use their technology and their company to advance that mission, and the other one was obsessed with their competition and how they were going to use their technology to beat their competition. You can start to see the finite and infinite mindsets already out of the gate. But here's what happened. So at the end of my talk at Microsoft, they gave me a gift. They gave me the new Zune when it was a thing. So this is back in the Steve Ballmer days, right? What was that? Zune? Zune. Zune was Microsoft's response to the iPod. Oh, so it was like a music player? It was a music player, yeah. I don't think I've even heard of it. Exactly. But that's important, right? And I got to tell you, this little piece of technology, because they were so obsessed with beating Apple that they got better and better at making the Zune because they wanted it to be better than an iPod. And I got to tell you, this thing was pretty good. This latest version of it was pretty impressive. So I'm sitting in the back of a taxi with a senior Apple executive after my Apple talk. And typical Simon fashion, I couldn't help myself, I had to stir the pot. And so I turned to him and I go, You know, Microsoft, they gave me their new Zune, and I got to tell you, it is so much better than your iPod Touch. And the guy leaned, looked over to me, he goes, I have no doubt. And the conversation was over. Because what he recognized when you have an infinite mindset is sometimes you have the better product, and sometimes they have the better product. And where Microsoft was trying to beat Apple, Apple was trying to outdo themselves. Flash forward two or three years, Apple introduced the iPhone, rendering both the Zune and the iPod obsolete. So yeah, congratulations at Microsoft, you made a better iPod, congratulations. Apple was already out of that game two or three years later. So that's what happens with an infinite mindset, which is your ability to innovate and advance. Because when you're competing against another player, the best you can ever do is one point higher than whatever they've done. When you're playing with an infinite mindset, you invent new industries and new categories, and that's true innovation. It sounds like the idea of competitiveness itself is only really in existence within a finite mindset. No, no, no. You can compete against yourself. I see. My understanding of the term competition, like it thrives off some degree of scarcity, whether that's like real or artificial, you know, you define some degree of, you know, when we design a game, the designer is like trying to create constraints and rules and an environment, you know, the constraints which give it sort of shape out of which it arises. So if I'm in an infinite game and I'm trying to cultivate this mindset within myself, are there like certain rules or like habits that would be helpful to train yourself to compete against yourself? So, because there are other players in the game, it's important that we have different words to describe them in a different context. So, in a finite game, those other players are your competitors. Two teams against each other in a sporting event. One will be the victor, one will be the loser, and that is your competitor to be beaten. I have no issue with that, right? In an infinite game, we have rivals. Other players who are playing with us, and I believe, not I believe, I know, that some of those rivals are worthy of comparison. They are worthy rivals, right? Where they do, they're playing at your level or they're better than you. And they do some or many things better than you. And the advantage of knowing who your worthy rivals are is you can look at the things that they're doing better than you and you can say, ah, we need to improve there. And so your intention, the mindset is not to try and beat them, right? Because all you're trying to do is beat them. But you're competing against your shitty numbers, not against their good numbers. And by the way, because you get to choose your own worthy rivals, they can come and go as you please. We'll do it in our organization. when we're shit at something, or we know that there's room for improvement, we'll say to somebody on the team, go worthy rival this. We'll use it as a verb. We're not trying to outdo them. We have no anger towards them. We don't have that. We just say, what can we learn from them so we can be better? We're not trying to take anything from them. We're trying to get more for ourselves. We're trying to see how we can improve. And so we're fiercely competitive with us. Have you always had this mindset yourself? Or is it something you've had to train into yourself? I've always been my own harshest critic, which you could argue is competing against yourself. But no, I've had false senses of competition against others as well. There's one in particular that I'm thinking of, and I've shared this story before, but it captures the point perfectly. There was another guy who does what I do. He writes books, he gives talks. He was always very nice to me. He never did anything to hurt me. He never talked smack about me to anybody. He was very professional, and I absolutely hated him, for no reason. I had contempt, right? And because of my fierce hatred, I was super competitive with him. So I would regularly log on to Amazon, and I would check his book rankings, and then I would check my book rankings. And if his book rankings were ahead, If my book rankings were ahead, I'd be angry. If my book rankings were ahead, I was smug. Keep in mind, I checked no one else's book rankings, just his. So for all I know, we're competing for 99th and 100th. Like, this is the problem with this obsession with competition. And I would look in places where my numbers were way better. Like, maybe my numbers on social media you were way better. And I'm like, ha, ha, ha. And I'd avoid looking in places where his numbers were way better than mine. Anyway, we were invited to speak at the same conference. And I don't mean him in the morning, me in the afternoon, I mean we were going to be interviewed together on stage together. And the interviewer thought it would be fun if we introduced each other. And so I went first. And as I'm about to introduce him, I sort of stopped. I looked at the audience, I looked at him, and I said, you make me incredibly uncomfortable. I said, all of your strengths are all of my weaknesses, and whenever your name comes up, I get really insecure.&quot; And he looked at me and said, funny, I feel the same about you. The reason I was so competitive with him had nothing to do with him. It had to do with me. It's because when I heard about his work, read his work, or other people invoked his work, all it did was remind me of the things that I'm bad at. And because it doesn't feel good to feel bad, it's much easier for me to direct that energy into a competitive spirit, into a competitive mindset, as opposed to saying, okay, Simon, why don't you work on those things, or maybe partner with him, so that your strengths and weaknesses are mitigated. And I think that happens for a lot of people, which is... It's easier, because why should I take responsibility for being crap at something? It's much easier to hate somebody and try and beat them and subvert them whenever possible. Edith Williams In Pogo we have this saying, which is when I win it's because I played great, and when I lose it's because I got unlucky. And it's so true. In this case the bad guy is luck, but it's just our egos just love to take credit for our successes. And if there's any way to outsource blame, you don't learn from that. Peter. Look at any venture capitalist. When they hit big, it's because they're geniuses, and when they lose, it's market conditions. You can't have it both ways. You're either lucky and unlucky, or you're a genius and an idiot. Like, you got to pick one logic. You can't mix your logics. And either one is fine, but you just got to pick one. Is it possible to weaponize an infinite mindset? An infinite mindset? Is it possible to weaponize an infinite mindset? Tell me more. What do you mean by weaponize? Use it against someone? Use it in a way, because it sounds like, and maybe I'm wrong, but my interpretation of, if you're playing an infinite game, whether it's something like business, you've described like relationships, friendships, these are all infinite games. I would ascribe all of those as good things, like things that the world benefits from. Actually, okay, so maybe the question I should ask prior to that is, are all infinite games good? Do they all benefit the world? It depends whose side you're on, right? Like, I remember as a little kid, my grandfather was a navigator in the Royal Air Force in World War II, as were many grandfathers. You know, they were involved in the war. And when I was a little kid, and I remember asking my grandfather a little kid question, which was, during the Second World War, who were the good guys and who were the bad guys? And my grandfather said, depends whose side you're on. And remember, I'll give you a great analogy. Did you ever see the movie Inglourious Basterds? Christoph Waltz was astonishingly good. He played the Nazi. When he was promoting the film, he went on Letterman, and Letterman asked him a question that he didn't understand the answer. He doesn't understand the question. Letterman said, you played evil incarnate so effectively. What did you have to do as an actor to learn how to play evil so well? And Christoph Waltz looks at him and goes, what? And Lederman asks again, where as an actor did you have to go inside yourself to portray evil so effectively? And Christoph Waltz said, he wasn't evil. And what Christoph Waltz understood so clearly as an actor, which is nobody thinks they're evil. Everybody thinks they're on the side of good. So the way he played what we perceived as evil incarnate so effectively is he convinced himself that this guy and I had to desperately believe in the things he was doing, and believe that he was on the side of good. And we saw that as ugh, right? And you talk to jihadis, you talk to any, everybody thinks they're on the side of good. They all think they have a just cause. They all think they have a just cause. And Diya Khan, who, this amazing BAFTA and Emmy Award winning documentarian, who has spent time with white supremacists and jihadis and domestic terrorists, she gets out there. Her work's incredible. she will tell you that she's never met anybody who's motivated by hate. They're all motivated by love. Love of race, love of God. It's all motivated by love. So everybody thinks they're on the side of good. And if you look at even our nation right now, both sides think they're right. Both sides think they're fighting the crusade for the preservation of our country and our democracy. GF Right, everyone's trying to conserve something. That's the funny thing. Everyone's trying to conserve something and everyone's trying to progress something. We happen to ascribe one more to the other, one side than the other, but it's like, no, they're just trying to conserve different things and trying to progress different ideas. But, and here's something that I struggle with and I find very uncomfortable, and I've spent the better part of 10 years trying to prove myself wrong, and I can't, which is you need an enemy, and I struggle with that, right? Which is, we are inherently dopamine-driven animals. We're visually-driven animals. Just causes tend to be ethereal. They live in our imaginations, literally. I have a dream that is literally in your imagination, right? And it is inspiring and good, but until you can make tangible the thing that is standing in the way of your dream, it's hard to mount a fight. It's hard to mount an effort, because you don't know where to go or what to do. And so even if back in the Steve Jobs days, Apple was a consummate infinite player, they still were very smart at creating the enemy that was standing in their way. First it was IBM. They wanted to beat IBM, right? And then it was Microsoft. Hi, I'm a Mac, I'm a PC. They always made the comparisons of us and them, us and them, us and them. But isn't then that just finite? And this is the complication. No, because they're not trying to beat the adversary per se. The adversary is standing in the way of the real thing that is driving them, which is the vision, the dream, the just cause, right? So take America and the Soviet Union. We weren't trying to beat the Soviet Union per se, right? But they were standing in the way of democracy and capitalism becoming the dominant philosophy of the world. CK. So their actual main optimization function was the mission, the ideology, the cause, whatever you want to call it. And enemy is just arguably more an obstacle. CB. Or I would argue existential threat. And we saw this take place, which is America had the wrong mindset. So America made a horrible, horrible, I would argue it's the single greatest foreign policy blunder of the 20th century, which is when the Berlin Wall collapsed in 1989 and the Soviet Union collapsed two years later, the United States declared publicly that we had won the Cold War. No, you didn't. It's just like when Circuit City went bankrupt, Best Buy didn't win anything, right? Companies go bankrupt all the time and the other players in the field don't win anything. All that means is you have a little bit of a bump for now and eventually we all know new players will emerge. That's what always happens in an infinite game. And so we stupidly believe that we had won a war that has no finish line, which is not what happened. It's like the Soviet Union as a political system went bankrupt. The people still exist, the cities still exist. You know, it's like it's all still there. You know, it's just like the empires that went bust, you know, the Ottomans or the Mayans, you know, the empires that went bust, the people are still there. The land is still there. And it's the political structure that fell apart. And what ended up happening was America acted like a victor. We imposed our will in the world for about 11 years, unmatched. And though well-intentioned, it went a little haywire, like we were trying to be the world policeman and we did things like declare no-fly zones over sovereign nations. If there was a balance of power, you just couldn't have happened, like wouldn't have been able to do that. And what always happens in an infinite game is new competitors, new, I shouldn't will emerge. And if you consider the way the Cold War existed, right? Cold War 1.0 existed on three levels. There was existential, the two largest nuclear powers on the planet capable of completely destroying the Earth multiple times over, the United States and Soviet Union. There was a philosophical competition, right? American democracy and capitalism versus Soviet-style communism. And all of our alliances were always on philosophical lines. If you were a communist, we weren't friends with you. It was that easy. And the third one was economic. Two largest economies in the world were United States and the Soviet Union, right? Not coincidentally, those things overlap with life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness. And if you go back and look at the founding document of the Soviet Union, it'll talk about economic strength, military strength, and advancement of the philosophy of communism. In other words, it seems that for a people to be motivated to strive and sacrifice for the greater good, it seems like you have to have this trifecta of something life, something philosophical, and something economic, right? Gail DePriest Would you say that the Soviet three things would qualify as like, because in your book you mentioned the Founding Fathers, their core principles are very infinite-minded. It went from Lenin to Stalin to, you know, I can't even remember all of them, you know. Andropov was in there, you know, Chernenko, Gorbachev, right? I actually think that was the list. I couldn't possibly know or correct. Yeah, I think I might've got Andropov and Chernenko backwards. Chernenko didn't last very long. He was super quick. Yeah, I think it was Andropov, Chernenko. And anyway, it doesn't matter. Someone will correct this, I'm sure. Oh, for sure. Someone in the comments is going to have it. Yeah. Anyway, the point is that they had a system for peaceful transfer of power, which is important, as do monarchies. Monarchies have a system for peaceful transfer of power as well, right? Sometimes it gets a little complicated. So those systems, dictatorships are finite. And this is why benevolent dictatorships are actually the best form of government, right? Super efficient, it's all benevolent. The problem with benevolent dictatorships is succession. They usually last but one person, you know? There's like one, and then you're like, oh. Has there been a real example of a benevolent dictator that you would say was net good, more than a democratic process? Singapore? Yeah, I guess. You know, Singapore is not really a democracy and it works really well. Do you think that's just a function of its size? I mean, that's a different conversation, whether benevolent dictatorships can operate at scale. And size is relative. Relative to what? If this was 300 years ago, Singapore would be freaking huge. And so if you look at what happened to America, we imposed our will on the world for about 11 years, and then new players started to emerge that filled those three things. And those three things were all conveniently co-located in the Soviet Union, so they were, you know, enemy number one, public enemy number one. Super easy for us, tangibly. So those three things were replaced. So the nuclear weapon tension was replaced by North Korea, maybe Iran, right? The philosophical tension, Soviet-style communism was replaced for many years by religious extremism. It was a philosophy looking for customers, right? And then the economic tension was largely replaced by China. China. And even though China is filling more and more of this, and some would argue that Russia was trying to get into all of them, right? And at least as of now, we don't fear nuclear war with China. It's not something we fear, right? We're not hiding in our desks for fear of being bombed by China like we feared nuclear war with the Soviets. But the point is that those three tensions that still exist and they're alive and well, the Cold War is alive and well. It's just a different form of it. And the problem is now the existential threat has been diffused because it's across multiple poles, multiple nations. And so for the rest of the world, they see public threat number one is us because all three of those tensions exist in the United States. But we are so freaking blind and don't realize that there are very real existential threats outside our own borders that we're so preoccupied with ourselves. And it goes back to, you know, that we look for enemies. So when the Soviet Union went away, then how do you know what you stand for if you can't see who's standing in your way, right? And when you no longer perceive an external existential threat, you start looking internally. And this is why we're so divided as a nation, is because we had the wrong mindset when the Soviet Union collapsed. By the way, this has been repeated throughout history. This is what happened to the Romans as well. When the Romans' external existential threat, which is Carthage, was flattened, they started looking internally in the Roman Empire and it just declined due to infighting. I'm very uncomfortable with the fact that you have to have an enemy, But I can't find a case that demonstrates our ability to come together and sacrifice willingly to advance a greater good without a tangible representation of someone standing in our way. And pretty much the only thing in the world that gets people to come together and sacrifice for a long period of time and en masse is war. And I find that very upsetting. Well, this is why I'm yabbering on in almost every piece of content I make about this concept of this Moloch creature, right? Because to me, that is the personification, manifestation of these nebulous forces of misaligned incentives that create war, that create dispute, rivalry in unhealthy ways. And we've talked about this many times at length about what's the way of framing this, these forces. But I think it is important to like give it a face and a name. Yeah, yeah. Make it tangible. Make it tangible. We're tangible driven animals. Like we need to see the thing, right? Now, I will say, if you go back to the Cold War 1.0, it was, there was mutually assured destruction, right? So, it was actually stable. So, we have to distinguish between an enemy in the infinite realm, versus the enemy in the finite realm, because I would argue that in the finite realm it's unstable, which is why it leads to war, and in the infinite realm it's actually quite stable because we try to avoid the war. We actually, we don't want to go to war, right? But there is definitely a tension that is managed. And I think that's a better way to think of how competition exists in an infinite game, which is it's a managed tension, rather than a desire to beat. Right, it's a sort of voluntary tension. It's a voluntary tension. It has this layer of consciousness to it. And a necessary tension. Yes. Because it's much easier to know what you stand for when you can see what you stand against. So how would we, you know, again, if Moloch is this personification of... Moloch is forcing us to maintain the Moloch trap. Yes. The Moloch trap is playing in the infinite game with the finite mindset. The Moloch Trap, for me, is playing to win in a game that has no finish line, trying to outdo, beat, destroy someone. They may go bankrupt, but the game isn't over. And this is why. An example? Well, I think it's most companies. It's the way most companies do business, but they're so obsessed with beating their competition that they can actually do things to harm themselves. Or- An obsession with efficiency? I remember talking to a CFO of a very significant company once, and I said, what are your priorities? He said, innovation and efficiency, and I said, good luck with that. Innovation is inherently wasteful. Go ask 3M, go ask some of the most innovative companies in the world. There is experimentation which is inherently wasteful. And so when a company's obsessed with margin and cost and efficiency, you literally are engineering out innovation, because you're not without allowing a space for people to try and fail, or allow a space for people to say something that's completely badass stupid. And for somebody to go, wait, no, hold on, hold on, and there's something in there. Everybody's going to take the safe road, or ignore the big risks that they could try and take. Nothing wrong with a focus on efficiency, as long as it's not efficiency at any cost. And this was the big mistake that Americans made when we brought the Toyota way to the United States. The Harvard professors that went to Japan and studied Toyota and thought, oh my God, this Toyota way is so incredible. Toyota's the most incredible company in the world. How do we bring this to America? And we called it lean. And you're like, guys, it was never about efficiency. It was about constant improvement. And the whole point of the Toyota way was to allow the front line to make micro, micro corrections and suggestions to the process that over the course of time become monumentally large. Whereas when we do lean, we send in a bunch of consultants to evaluate the factory and almost leave out the front line, who know more about what's going on than anybody else. Americans screwed it up, and we screwed up the Toyota way when we brought it domestic. and the number of companies that will say that Lean did more damage to their companies because they became obsessed with efficiency. I think another Moloch trap, I fell into the Moloch trap, being obsessed with beating my arch rival, dun-dun-dun, when there was no real game at play. There was no game. The game was a complete, artificial narrative in my head. That, I think, is a part of the Moloch trap, which is perceiving a game to be one where there is actually no game. Not only is there no competition, there's actually no game. Edith Warren There's like this idea of false zero-sumness. Peter Dalmaris False zero-sumness, right. Edith Warren Seeing a fixed pie when there isn't one. Peter Dalmaris And remember, there's no fixed rules, there's no agreed-upon objectives, and there's no agreed-upon timeframes. My sense of winning or losing depends on where I'm looking. It's all my emotions, no actual game at play. That's a Moloch trap. Or, we've all been in this situation where we hear that somebody we work with gets a promotion and we get angry. Like, we got angry at somebody else's career success. Like, what nerve is that pushing against? Well, they don't deserve it. They didn't earn it. I'm smarter. I'm like, whatever narrative. That's an emotional reaction to somebody else's success. What are you worried about their career for? Why don't you worry about your own? That's a Moloch trap, obsessive focus on what other people are doing over what you're doing. And something happened when COVID hit that I found magical and reinforced all of the things that you and I are trying to share with people, which is when we went into lockdown and COVID happened, not a single company was obsessing about what their competition was doing. 100 % of companies were obsessing with how to stay alive, survival. That was the only thing, right? You literally didn't care what the marketing plan, what the new product was. No one cared what their competition was doing. Overnight, we just stopped caring about the competitors and were obsessed with survival of ourselves. And that is the correct mindset in harsh times and good times. So it's almost like this excessively competitive mindset is a luxury belief. Correct. And so if you look at any time war strikes, or more importantly, when there's an existential threat, the stupid stuff falls away. September 11th, all the stupid stuff just fell away. We actually became much more focused on important stuff. World War II, the Blitz. I mean, people were way more focused on what was actually important, and actually helped move the needle for survival. And look at the quality of innovation. The number of things that were invented in World War II, is radar, the microwave, I mean, I only know a short list, I mean, it's just this huge long list of innovation that happened in the 40s and then perfected in the 50s for some of them, is astonishing because we weren't worried about stupid stuff. We had to solve problems and we had to solve them quickly. We built the Pentagon. We built the whole Pentagon in something like four years, or maybe even less, and it came in on time and on budget. I think it was actually less than four years, we'd have to look it up. But if you had to build a Pentagon today, 20 years later they'd still be putting the finishing touches on it. We saw it happen in the 80s. We had the hole in the ozone, and it became really critical, and we were afraid of the hole in the ozone, and we fixed it. We full-on fixed it. We full-on fixed it. It was a deep coordination problem. There were massive incentives for everyone to defect. But remember, fear came with it. Don't let scientists and engineers do marketing. And the scientists have been like, This is the worst thing that has ever happened to humanity, and we're going to see the results, I think, maybe, I can't tell you exactly, in about 50 years. It's so bad. Like, made no one afraid, right? That's like telling a 21-year-old, you know, when you retire, when you're 60, you're not going to have any money in the bank. You should probably start saving now. Yeah, see how well that goes. Like, human beings just aren't that smart, and we're not that good at, like, imagination and forward planning. And that goes back, I love all the repeating patterns that we've had in here, the repeating themes, which is imagination's not enough. Tangibility has to be enough. Tangibility is what we can point to, you know? And even though I know there's confusion between weather and climate, some of the extreme weather at least is making tangible. And that is screwing with people's lives and livelihoods, you know, and it's making difficult, life difficult. Like at least that's a detail we can point to, saying, see, we have to stop that. And the point is, the pressure of existential threat is kind of amazing. Now, we couldn't operate under those conditions all the time. We'd become numb to it. Well, A, we've come numb to it, but it also cannibalizes a bunch of resources into, you know, World War II, yes, it created a bunch of brand new, amazing technologies. It also created a bunch of really shitty ones. You know, we got the nuclear bomb out of it, among other things. I mean, the abrogation is awful. The science is incredible. Yes. It's almost just like we need a reality check every now and then. That's the value of an existential threat. I think so. It's like if aliens suddenly showed up, you know, Independence Day style, hovering over every city, you'd like to think that we would stop bickering over gender disagreements or whatever. The culture war stuff would fade away temporarily. We saw it, I mean, part of Osama bin Laden's plan on September 11th is that he would attack us, and he would divide our nation. And the total opposite happened, which is no matter how much people hated George Bush, everyone rallied around the president. We became a very unified nation, because the external threat was vastly greater than any internal threat in daily politics. Do you think that's even possible today? are accusing the other side of being traitors or unpatriotic or un-American. When the reality of a political system is simply, we agree on the cause, life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness. We agree in the structure, the constitution. We disagree about how best to implement and advance it. And that should be a political debate, and it should go in and out of fashion. Like, sometimes one theory suits the times and the economic times better, and the culture and the politics and the technology of the day. And that pendulum should have a healthy swing. But when both sides accuse the other of destruction, when both sides believe they're on the side of construction, it's bad. Is there any low-hanging fruit that you think, okay, if we could just, you know, if you could flick your fingers and do tomorrow to try and fix this, you know, the US is essentially, it's ideological civil war that it's got going on. Is there anything that you think should be happening right now that isn't? So an existential threat certainly is a jolt, but the reality of anyone threatening the homeland is pretty small. and wars in foreign lands, they don't threaten us in the way that World War II threatened us and the way Hitler threatened us. I think Europe is coming together in a magical way because Russia, Ukraine is on their doorstep. And so the bickering of Europe seems to have subdued some and one of the unintended byproducts of, again, miscalculation, understanding finite and infinite games, which is Putin thought that he would fracture NATO and Europe, and the opposite has happened. He's done a very good job of strengthening it because he represented an existential threat to all of them. And so all of their stupid bickering and silliness, as we've been discussing, just instantly vanishes. Emma Watson Yeah, the trouble is, I don't think we can, you know, we can't hope for, war can't be the answer, like in Christopher Redd's. Paul Matzko No, no, no, no, no, no, no. Emma Watson I know you're not saying that, but. Paul Matzko And I do believe, and I do believe that war happens when we start to adopt, when we fall into a Moloch trap. I think you're right about that, which is war happens when one party, it doesn't require both, but one party falls into the Moloch trap. Because if you can stay out of the Moloch trap, then you manage attention. The discomfort that I have is there has to be an enemy. And that makes me really uncomfortable. Which is Moloch. Well, Moloch is a story. Like, Moloch is a metaphor. And so even in my work, right, when I talk about my work and I'm super sort of in the clouds, and I imagine a world in which the vast majority of people wake up every single morning inspired, feel safe wherever they are, and end the day fulfilled by the work that they do, and I talk about the world and business in these ideological terms, you know, infinite, infinite, infinite, infinite, and beautiful, lovely, mushy, mushy, mushy. But I'm also fully aware that I say things like, I want to undo everything Jack Welch did. Jack Welch is my, he is my Moloch. He is standing in the way of my vision. He is, he is, he is forcing people to play his game as opposed to playing the ideological right game. That's good for all and win-win. Moloch is forcing people to play win-lose. Jack Welch is forcing to play, and then I have modern ones. Jack Welch was the CEO of General Electric in the 80s and 90s, and he became the poster child for a new way of interpreting capitalism. The things that we consider normal in business today are actually very modern constructions. So for example, the obsession with quarterly results, like that, that's relatively new. Jack Welch helped popularize that. the use of equity, stock price, to incentivize professional executives didn't exist. Right, that was like a Milton Friedman thing, right? Yeah, so Milton Friedman, in the late 1970s, he wrote it in multiple places, but it was really this one op-ed that he wrote in the New York Times where he basically offered a new definition of business, sort of counter to Adam Smith, who was sort of the grandfather of modern capitalism. And just as an aside, it's Adam Smith's version of capitalism that Thomas Jefferson was obsessed with and had read all the volumes of Wealth of Nations, and it was Adam Smith's version of capitalism that made America great and made America what it is today. But then in the 1970s, Milton Friedman theorized that the purpose of business is to maximize profit within the bounds of the law. He never talked about ethics, or advancing a cause, or looking after people, just to maximize profit. And- One single metric. There you go, that's it. Distilling the whole richness and complexity of all forms of business down to one single thing. And then you hear this nonsense about, I have a fiduciary duty to maximize profit. I'm like, no, that's one of them. And so what happened was, there was a class of executive at the time who embraced Friedman and used Friedman's thinking to change the way in which we articulated, not articulated, interpreted capitalism. And so I'm a diehard capitalist. I do not like this version of capitalism that we're living in now. Which is like, what late stage capitalism is? It's very, very short-termist, right? We even talked about before that long-term plans, like we think five years is long-term and even those don't happen, right? The obsession with quarterly results, the obsession with finite, I believe that capitalism as a philosophy fell into the Moloch trap. And the concept of using mass layoffs to balance the books, where we used people's livelihoods on an annualized basis so that we can meet an arbitrary projection. That is a Moloch trap. Pitting executives against each other is a Moloch trap, which is now normalized. We now live in a system where an executive goes on television and if they announce that we're having layoffs, the stock price goes up, and if they announce that we're investing in R &amp;D, the stock price goes down. You think about the infiniteness of companies and business and what it takes to survive for the long term, that's the opposite. Layoffs destroy cultures, and R &amp;D ensures that you're going to reinvent yourselves for the future. So Jack Welch really, what he did at GE and the engineering at GE became the poster child for this new modern form of capitalism, in this Milton Friedman form of capitalism. And Jack Welch, in the short term, when GE was the hero, well, GE is a shadow of its former self and may not even survive, at least not in its current form. It might be chopped up and sold off as spare parts because it wasn't built to survive. It wasn't built to last. It was built for short-term gains that enrich the lives of a few. The depressing part is, we talk about private companies are better than public companies because you don't have the public pressures, blah, blah, blah. But if you look at the number of companies that are now VC or PE backed, it's something like 80%. It's a disgustingly high number. They're also playing a finite game because VC fund or private equity fund only makes money when they sell. Peter. Correct. So their business model, and I've heard so many horror stories, and let's not say all VCs and PEs are horrible, the CEO faces from Wall Street. to undo it, and what it requires is better leadership. And leaders who have a different definition of the purpose of business, and I would argue the purpose of business is to advance a cause, protect people, and maximize profit. In that order. Advance a cause, protect people, make profit. Right? In that order. So profit, of course, has to be there. But there's other things as well, and there's other things that sometimes are more important because when you make an ethical decision, An ethical decision is the choice to prioritize cause and people over money. Most unethical decisions that are made in business are prioritizing money over cause or people. That's roughly the triple bottom line, right, model? What you just described? I mean, the way that most people do triple bottom line is, I think they do environment, people, and P &amp;L. But it's an attempt to, again, broaden the number of metrics that you're optimizing for, and also reorder them. Number one, priority growth. Number two, shareholder value. Number three, our customer. Number four, our people. See, we care about our people, though they're on the list. Wrong order, right? And the reason the order matters is because it's a hierarchy. and what it says is, when push comes to shove, I'm going to prioritize this over that. They're going to essentially take a short-term hit for long-term gain, but isn't the danger and then during that short-term hit... They get fired? Well, either they get fired, but yeah, basically, again, the Moloch trap situation arises where... Correct. Well, we want to do the more ethical thing, but we can't, because the guy down the road, the other... That's different. That's a different thing. That's ethical fading, right? So there is a concept in psychology called ethical fading, which I find uniquely fascinating, which is when good people are able to do highly unethical things, believing that they are still within their own ethical framework and there are multiple things that contribute to the existence of ethical fading and one of those is euphemisms. So it goes back before to the worthy rivals, right? Which is it's much easier for me to direct my feelings of insecurity against someone else, right? So it's much easier for me to to change the language of the things that I talk about, so I don't have to feel like I'm taking responsibility. So for example, we constantly are talking about externalities, but we rarely talk about the damage we're doing to the people and environments in which we have our factories and offices. We don't speak in plain language, right? Because the word externalities is something that can be managed on a piece of paper, but we're not talking about the actual impact. The United States would never, ever torture its against our values, but enhanced interrogation is very interesting. No company would ever, ever spy on its customers. But data mining? Yeah, that's a very important modern business technique. So we use language to separate our decisions and actions from the impact of those decisions and actions. That's one of the things that starts to lean you into ethical fading, as opposed to just having plain conversations in plain language. Another one is our ability to rationalize. Everyone's doing it. I have no choice. If I don't do it, my competitors will do it. It's what my boss wants me to do. It's what I have to do to get ahead. I got to put food on the table. Don't hate the players, hate the game. Don't hate the players, hate the game. And my personal favorite, it's the system, which is a variation on the theme. And again, what we're doing is we're able to disconnect ourselves from the impact of the things that are happening. Just following orders, that was a famous one, the Nuremberg defense. Just following orders. Not my fault, not my fault, not my fault, just following orders. And so if you have enough of these things that happen, eventually you have full-blown ethical fading, where you can have an entire culture inside a company capable of doing highly unethical things, and there are no checks and balances left until there's a scandal or, you know, law, government intervenes. The amazing thing is when these things happen, when these scandals blow up, you know, we drag the executives in front of Congress for testimony, and they almost all say the same thing. We broke no laws. Like, so take, for example, a drug company that might own a patent on an essential drug And this happened with the EpiPen, right? The company that owned the patent on the EpiPen, which had like a 90 something percent market share. So I mean like you're the only game in town. And by the way, you have to throw it away every year. It only has a shelf life of one year, right? So even if you don't use it, you got to buy a new one. Great business model, right? Literally, because the board is like, you need to hit these numbers, and the company's like, all right, we got to hit those numbers. What they started doing is jacking up the price 300%, 500%, 600%, 800%. They raised it 1,500 % or something ridiculous within a very short period of time, within two years. Now there are people who need an EpiPen to survive. They can no longer afford the EpiPen, and these guys are celebrating because they're hitting their numbers. Now there's nothing illegal about what they did. And when they're dragged in front of Congress, and I believe the CEO at the time, her dad was a congressman, aside. But anyway, when they drag them in front of Congress to testify, they all say the same thing. We broke no laws. We worked the highest standards of the law. Yeah, but what about ethics? That is clearly unethical. And good companies that prioritize cause, people, and then profit, would never make those decisions. That's where Miltonian, Jack Welchian capitalism goes completely haywire, which is we literally make decisions that will destroy our own companies and our own economy. In 2008, that was all Moloch Trap produced. Dotcom bubble, all Moloch Trap produced. And I mean, it looks like we're trending back into it again. Yeah, of course, the dismantling of Glass-Steagall, all Moloch Trap produced. Glass-Steagall was the act that was passed shortly after the Great Depression to prevent another great stock market crash from happening ever again. Which, by the way, during Republican and Democrat administrations, so don't point to each other, you both did it. Do you know how many we've had since the dismantling? we had three. We had Black Monday, we had .com, and we had 2008. All Moloch traps, because we removed all the checks and balances. One of the checks and balances, for example, is that a bank couldn't be a retail bank and an investment bank in the same organization. That was illegal after Glass-Steagall. It seems pretty basic. Anyway, the point is, you're absolutely right, this Moloch trap is unfortunately, modern American capitalism and the executives that are overseeing it, unfortunately the majority of them, are all sitting in a deep pit of Moloch trap. Like if the Moloch trap was like a big hole in the ground with some leaves over the top, they all fell in. You know? And so you asked me, what is it gonna take to get out of it? It's gonna take some really forward thinking, really courageous young leaders. And I say young, because I think some of the older leaders, even though they know that the system is broken, they're either too far deep, or their incentive structures are so misaligned that they would have to completely destroy their careers to effect it. And some of them do have that courage, don't get me wrong, but a new breed of a young entrepreneur who are building companies from the ground up. And the Brian Cheskys of Airbnb, the guys over at Sweetgreen, Yves Chenault, what he built, he's older, but what he built at Patagonia. These companies are talking differently, they're sounding differently than Jack Welch. And it's going to, like I said, they're experimenting with infinite-mindedness. They're experimenting with cause and people before profit. So I can imagine the pushback some people are probably feeling hearing this. And because I know it, you know, I went through this phase myself. But it was particularly sort of during COVID that it felt like it became the thing for companies to start sort of signaling about how ethical they are. You know, essentially virtue signaling. And I use that term in the more disparaging way, and it's like empty. They're latching onto, oh no, this is the current thing, and look how conscious we are. And how do we, I guess, discern between the companies that are truly, authentically having this excellent cause in mind from the outset, and it's an infinite cause, versus the ones that are kind of like jumping on the bandwagon of signaling virtue? So what we call virtual signaling, the technical term for virtual signaling is marketing. And the number of companies that have a purpose statement on their website, but if you go look at the decisions that they make, it seems like they've never read that purpose statement, because clearly they're not following it. And unfortunately, whether we like it or not, that is the only way to find out, which is to compare the decisions they make. Think of it like in a personal relationship. Your partner can say anything they want to you about how good they are and how they mean well. Well, I believe you, I'll give you the benefit of the doubt, but then I'm going to watch. And I don't expect you to get it all right, but if I can see you're really trying to get it right, okay, I think this is for real. But if I see that you've really never even paid any attention and you just said those things to get me off your back, it was marketing. It was just selling. And this is why I think B Corp and organizations like B Corp who have very, very strict rules, and they will rate a company that they are. It helps us make decisions, because the average person neither has the resources, time, or, quite frankly, desire to go do a deep dive research on a company, what they say and what they do. And so we do need third-party to help us. And even that gets tricky, because who's an authoritative and ethical and legitimate third-party? Because many, many companies say, endorsed by this organization, that they fund. But B Corp, I think, is one of those, that when you see a B Corp sign, You can take comfort that that's a company that's really trying to do the right thing, and is already operating at higher standards than most. How do we go about finding our why? Is it possible to take the viewers through the exercise? The simple answer is yes. I mean, there are many, many ways to do it, and it really boils down to personal preference. I got so many complaints after I wrote Start With Why, like, got it, how do I do it? So eight years later I wrote Find Your Why. I mean, better late than never. So Find Your Why is a workbook that people can buy on Amazon and go through the process of finding your why, But I can tell you another fun way, which is totally free, called the friends exercise. Find a friend, like a best friend, who you love and they love you. They'd be there at three o'clock in the morning for you if you needed them. You'd be there for them at three o'clock in the morning if they needed you. Do not do this with a spouse. Do not do this with a member of your family, a sibling. Those relationships are too close, yeah. Do it with a best friend. And ask them this very simple question. Why are we friends? And they're gonna look at you like you're nuts, because the part of the brain that controls our feelings, like friendship and trust and loyalty, the limbic brain, doesn't control language, which is our neocortex. And so this is why we struggle to put our feelings into words, it's why we use metaphors and analogies all the time, because we struggle to put our feelings into words, right? It's like this, it's like I feel like I'm on a train that's heading towards the end of the track. It's like, got it. So you ask this question, and they're going to look at you like you're crazy, because they don't have have the words to describe why they love you. So you actually stop asking the question, why? And you say, come on, come on, what specifically is it about me that I know that you'd be there for me no matter what? Because when you ask the question why, you get an emotional response. So now we want them to engage their rational brains. So we ask the question, what? What specifically is it about me that I know you'd be there for me no matter what? And they're going to hem and haw, and they're going to struggle, and they're going to start describing you. I don't know, you're smart, I trust you, you're loyal, you're always there for me. and you have to play devil's advocate. Great, that's the definition of a friend. You have that with many people. What specifically is it about me that I know you'd be there for me no matter what? And again, they're going to hem and haw, don't help them, don't let anybody else help them. It's a torturous experience, but you have to go through it. And eventually, they'll give up. Eventually they'll give up and say, I don't know. All I know is, and they'll start describing themselves. All I know is, and this is what my friend said to me, All I know is, Simon, I can sit in a room with you. I don't even have to talk to you when I feel inspired. And I got goosebumps. In fact, I'm getting them right now. Every time I tell the story, I get the goosebumps. Because basically what they did is they articulated the value you have in their life, and you had the emotional response. So you either got goosebumps, or you well up with tears, or something touches you because it mattered so much to you. And if you do this with multiple friends, they will say very similar, if not the exact same thing, because your why is the thing you put out and give to the world. And it's the reason people love you and value you. So the space that you fill in people's lives is the thing that you give them, is your why. So it will definitely get you in the right ballpark. You may not get the exact words, but you'll definitely get something that's useful and actionable. And it's a fun, and it's just generally a fun process. We did this exercise a few days ago. We recorded your podcast, and I ended up crying. which has never happened before. Right, but this is the power of the why, when you're going deep into the part of the brain that- Because it's hard to actually find, it's like, I just want the world to keep existing and things to be good and people have a nice time, but it's like, and it's just so deeply personal, but- Yeah, your why- It's touching on a truth. Your why is the preservation of relationships. And the word preserve is probably too passive for you, but it's sort of like the fierce protection or, you know, and you can see all of your work, the times where you've sort of talked about yourself falling in a Moloch trap was not a good time in your life. You talk about how it became insidious and self-destructive. You know, you talk about, you know, when you talk privately about, you know, your family, you become deeply protective of relationships. When you talk about the things that you love in your career or, you know, the great memories in your life, it's when people came together in great joy to solve problems, you know? And for you, There's this beautiful relationship theme that exists throughout, and ultimately what win-win is, is the preservation of a relationship. That's all it is. It's like, we hope to do business together. And so if I negotiate with the intention that you feel like you're winning, and you negotiate with the intention that I feel like I'm winning, not only will we both get everything we want, but my goodness, what a great way to start a business relationship. You know, and your hope is that that should be the standard operating mode of operating for personal relationships, business relationships, and that's what you call win-win. And the Moloch trap is the thing that is preventing those things from happening. Tangent, different topic. My favorite kind. And you are, you know, we've, we've been at a number of conferences actually over the last year. Weirdly. Weirdly. Right. Yeah. Like all of them. Yeah. And every time I see you speak, every single time, you just blow me away. You are truly one of the best speakers I think alive. Thank you. How the hell do you do it? Like what's your secret ingredient? Like what's like your process? As someone who's trying to become a better speaker, I'm sitting there watching your stuff, and I'm trying to imbibe and ingest it, and I bet there's a lot of people out there who also are trying to, most people have fear of public speaking and want to be the best speaker they can be. So give us your wisdom. Yeah, sure. So there's a few things. One is, I don't really want to be a public speaker. And so I don't have the need at an emotional level to be liked in that space, because it's not my chosen profession. What I have is a deep-seated drive to spread a message that I desperately believe in. And it just so happens that speaking publicly is a good way to do it. And so, like, when I have people come up to me and say, oh, I really want to be a public speaker. Can you give me some advice how I can have that as a career? And I go, sure, absolutely, happy to help. What do you want to speak about? They go, I don't know yet. And I'm like, no, no, no, no, no. You're missing it. You have to have something that you have desperate belief in. Then you figure out the way to do it. And speaking is maybe a good way. But you can't think I want to be a speaker and have nothing to speak about. Like that's when you care too much about what people think about you. And because that's now your career, right? For me, that was just a path, a strategy. So again, it's actually about finding your why first. It's about finding your why first. Yeah, you have to find your why, and then it happens to be that speaking is one of the mediums through which you can transmit it. Correct. And because that was my standard, I never got bothered by the size of my audience, right? So for example, I remember in the early days, people would say, we promise you an audience of 100 people. And I'd show up to the event, and they had 26. And they were like, I'm so sorry. I'm so sorry. And I'd be like, no, no, don't worry about it. That's 74 people that are going to miss out. Like, and I would give 100 % of my energy to those 26 people. Because I wasn't there for the numbers. I was there for the message and whoever wanted to show up. I never cared if people were on their phones while I was speaking. Because if I'm that boring, then yeah, you should play Wordle. Like, because my job, if I'm good at my job, my job is to hold your attention. Like, that is my job, to give you something that makes you want to put your phone down and be like, this is interesting. That's my job. So if I'm bad at my job, yeah, you should go do something. And I don't know what you're typing on your phone. Maybe you're tweeting, this is amazing. Maybe you're helping me spread my message. I said something in a, maybe I said something in soundbite form that you're putting on all your social because you want to spread it. Maybe you're taking notes. Like, I don't know. I'm not going to take, I heard so many speakers, they would stand up and go, ladies and gentlemen, can you just put your phones away for an hour, show me some courtesy while I speak? I'm like, no, no, no, no, no, that's not how it works. You have to show up with something you believe in desperately, and you believe that it's really important for this message to be spread, and you are going to learn the facility of public speaking so that other people can fall in love with this idea as much as you have fallen in love with it. That is the reason to perfect the skill set. I want you to see how beautiful this thing is, like I see how beautiful this thing is. I never show up to take, I always show up to give. And you can always tell the difference in public speakers. So I will literally, before I go out on stage, I will mutter under my breath, out loud to myself, you're here to give. Every time, you're here to give. Because it changes my mindset for I'm up there. Because when you're here to give, you'll answer every question. You'll show up with full energy. It doesn't matter if they like you or not. I'm here to give. When you're here to take, you can always tell. You care too much if you get a standing ovation. You expect something back. When people ask you questions, you give answers like, well, you can find that in my new book. Or the slide behind you has all your socials, because you showed up for followers. You showed up for business. You show up to take, you show up to get, as opposed to showing up to give. You start by telling people your credentials. That's my favorite one. Whenever I speak, people always make fun of me Because there's no, I stand in the middle of the stage, I give it a beat, and I just start. Like, here's a story, bang. I don't be like, thanks for having me, this is an honor, I'd like to thank the host. You know, I've written all these books, and I've done all these TED Talks. I don't tell you anything about me, because it's not about me. Never was about me. I'm just a vessel for a message. That's all I am. And so, I mean, I can tell you all the tricks that I've learned that can make somebody a better public speaker. I got the question a lot, so we actually made a whole presentations course about it that literally goes through all the tricks and tactics. But the thing that I want to instill in people, which is speaking, is simply a strategy to spread a message. And there are many strategies to spread a message. You can make a film. You can write a book. You can have a social media presence. You can find partnerships. You can build a business. There's millions of ways to do it. It's just one avenue. But first and foremost, you have to have a thing that compels you. And the reason is because you're going to get kicked on your ass a lot. And so unless you have compulsion, you'll give up. Another thing I noticed when we were at the last conference together, your name badge said your name. And then your job, everyone else had like their title. So but mine was whatever the hell my title was at the time. Optimist. Have you always been an optimist throughout your life or is this something you've learned to cultivate? I mean, the answer's both, right? It's like somebody has some sort of facility and then they practice and they work really hard and they get really good at it. Like you're pretty good at basketball and if you work really hard, you can get in the NBA, right? So yeah, my whole life, people called me happy-go-lucky, right? That's what the term was when I was a kid. And then, you know, you sort of work on it. You're like, okay, this seems to be an advantage. This seems to be something that will help me excel in whatever I'm trying to do. And I want to be defined by who I am, not what I do. Cause you know, I see this, you see this very often in successful people, right? Which is they spent their whole life being, pick a profession, an attorney, you know, since the age of 21, maybe 23, right? They're an attorney, right? And they do it for 20 years and 30 years and they want to retire. And then the first thing that happens is that they have an identity crisis. If I'm not an attorney, what am I? You know, or somebody who gets fired after a job for 20 years, they don't know what to do. CEOs who thought their value was that they were CEO, they're no longer the CEO. It's because what they did was they confused what they did. Or like, you know, look at someone's bio, right? That's, I think, the best place to look. Look at someone's bio. It says CEO of, or Oscar-nominated actor of. So you're defining your entire self-worth based on a position you have or something that you accomplished in the past. that, by the way, every year, is further and further away. That's your identity, and that's the problem. And I never wanted my bio to start with something I do, a title I have, or something that I achieved in the past that who even cares, right? I wanted to be defined by who I was. So if you look at my name, whenever I blurb a book, it'll always say optimist and bestselling author of dot dot dot, right? right? And no matter what I do, I'll always be that. And no matter what job I have, and if I eventually retire, I'll always be that. So yeah, that is by design. I want my title to be who I am, not what I do. So let's say we win the infinite game as a civilization. You can't win the infinite game. You can just stay in the game. Sure. So, I would argue that winning the infinite game of civilization is that we survive infinitely and we survive longer than we think. I had the great honor of getting to spend a little time with Dr. James Kars before he died and he was, first of all, a magical, magical guy and truly embodied an infinite mindset and when I had told him that I'm writing a whole new book to build upon the foundation that he built, that he wrote, he was overjoyed because he recognized that his kooky little philosophy book that he wrote was going to have a longer life because I was going to pick it up and carry it on. So I'm really honored by that, you know, that I feel like I'm carrying his torch and I'm really proud to carry his torch. So when we met for the The first question I asked, just when we sat down, I'm like, I have to ask you, how'd you come up with it? How did you come up with the concept of the infinite game? Because there are many people who espouse theories, but you put out a truth, an unassailable truth, and those don't happen very often. I mean, Galileo had one of those, Newton had one of those, you've got one of those. like the number of people who, you know, that other people use your truth to explain the world. How the hell did you come up with it? And he said in the 1970s, they were game theory was all the rage. And everybody was talking about game theory. And they would have these salons where they would bring sort of these mixed groups of like an economist, you know, a theologian, a mathematician, whatever, a philosopher, they'd have these salons, and they would obsessively discuss game theory. And The Prisoner's Dilemma is one of the theories that emerged from one of these salons. Came out in the 1970s, right? And Dr. Kars, a theologian, was invited to these salons. And he realized after attending them that they were all talking about winning and losing. Everybody, when they discussed game theory, They only discussed winning and losing. And he raised his hand and said, but what about playing? You're only talking about the outcome. What about the play? And that was stuck in his head. And he was at home and he realized something, which is when his kids were playing ping pong, for example, when his kids were playing a finite game, invariably there was screaming and shouting at some point. There was one player accusing the other person, accusing the other player of cheating. and it didn't always end well, but when the kids were doing something infinite, like they were playing with Lego, they were drawing, he said it was quiet all day. One kid would join, one kid would leave, and the players would come and go. And he realized that we are so obsessed with winning that we sometimes forget about playing. and not all playing, wins. So you can play ping-pong or you can play Lego. And then you start to pull back and you realize so much of our world is actually more like Lego than it is about ping-pong. So business, you play at business. You can't win at business. And so employees come and go, you know? But the company, the game, continues. And this was the problem with the obsession with game theory, even today, almost all the discussion about game theory is how can I win? Or how can I get an advantage over you? And not enough discussion is about the joy and art of the play and playing. And that's what I love about it. And I have tried to build my business and live my life in his vision, which is I'm having fun playing my life, and I'm having fun playing in business, but I'm not trying to win or outdo anyone. Such a beautiful story. Isn't that gorgeous? Yeah. So win-win. Yeah. I wish he was still alive. I know. He and I had a conversation during COVID, and I didn't know what the, I just decided to just call him. I'm like, can we just have a conversation and just record it? He's like, yeah, sure. And so we recorded it. It was just a freewheeling conversation. And after he died, we cut it up and released it as an episode of my podcast so you can hear him and his words and he's, he laughs the whole time. He's just the best. I'll link to it after this. Thank you so much. Thanks for having me. This was amazing. There we go. Thank you so much for watching everybody and huge thanks to Simon for speaking with me. Do go check out his stuff. Lots of links below to his books. I highly recommend you read The Infinite Game. It's so good. Also linked to a bunch of the other resources as we touch on. If you enjoyed this, please like, please share. You can now splice it up on YouTube and make your own little shorts out of it. Just, you know, spread the word. That's all for now. I'm very sweaty. My air conditioning is not working, so excuse the uh, but listen, I will catch you all next time.