Hi, I'm Rick Steves, back with more of This time we're relaxed for a Turkish experience Thanks for joining us. Istanbul is one of the great For thousands of years, has been a crossroads Few places on earth than this sprawling metropolis We'll cruise the Golden Horn, and check out a poor man's sample some Turkish delights... Oh, that's good, yeah. Smoke a &quot;nargile,&quot; eat fish fresh off the boat, explore the harem marvel at Byzantine domes, and lose ourselves in this vast and complex city. Turkey bridges Europe and Asia. Istanbul, its largest city straddles the strategic Part of the city is in Europe The Golden Horn inlet with its high-energy from the old town, where you'll find As a city which is Istanbul offers to better understand Islam. Visitors are welcome and, at the same time, that still packs the house. The Blue Mosque was of Sultan Ahmet I. Architecturally, it rivaled the holiest in all Islam. Its grand courtyard that gathers for worship. As with all mosques, and women cover their heads. If they don't have a scarf, Countless beautiful tiles with exquisite floral It's nicknamed the Blue Mosque Blue is a popular color It impressed early for them to call it or, &quot;turquoise.&quot; While churches portray Muslims believe in places of worship worshiping Allah In mosques, rather than you'll see geometrical designs This explains why, the Muslim world excelled while artists from painting and sculpture Artful Arabic calligraphy excerpts from the Quran As a church would have Jesus in a mosque, high above the prayer niche Large ceremonial candles That's the niche which in Saudi Arabia, when they worship. Services are segregated by gender -- for men, is in the back. While, to some, it's demeaning Muslims see it as Women would rather have the physical act of praying Muezzin: &quot;Allah &quot;Allah hu akbar&quot; like churches have bell towers, According to Muslim tradition, would climb to the top to call the faithful to prayer. &quot;Hadu anna Muhammadan...&quot; These days, the prayer leader still performs but it's amplified at the top of the minarets. [ muezzin calling ] &quot;Allah hu akbar&quot; The call is always the same -- &quot;Allah akbar,&quot; &quot;Witness there is only one God, &quot;Come join the prayer. &quot;Come join the salvation.&quot; When this happens, drop into a mosque, [ muezzin calling ] Then, after a short service workaday life resumes. Modern Turkish culture To sort it out properly, my Turkish friend who co-authors So what does the call to prayer See, it's a personal thing. Most of the people you see but Turkey's It's in our constitution. But, on the other hand, who has got the money The real virtue Steves: Turks love to meet and mingle at Ortakoy, that connected Europe with Asia The tempo of life in Turkey, is slow enough to enjoy People love their tea, the sound of dice and sucking on the hookah, generally a tobacco-free This city, was officially named &quot;Istanbul&quot; with the foundation of Before that, it was called Over the centuries, the capital The Byzantine Empire and lasted until That's when the Ottomans and ruled until Today, even though Turkey Istanbul remains and historic center As ancient Rome was falling, moved the capital here to the less chaotic East It was named Constantinople Then, in 476, fell to invading Barbarians. That left Constantinople of Western Civilization. Traces of the Roman capital This square was a race track, Built in the 4th century the Hippodrome primary venue Its centerpiece, ancient Egyptian obelisk, to honor a pharaoh. It was moved here in the 4th century. What you see today of the original While you won't find Istanbul remains One of the most memorable Today, and give a peek You leave absolutely everything Slip ungracefully and shuffle into Turks brought the steam bath blended it with they found here, First, heat up, soften up Savor the experience, achieving maximum Then your attendant scrubbing vigorously brillo-pad type mitts, then sudsing and washing. Refreshed and cleaner than you venture back ready for more The best look at is a church-turned-mosque among the greatest in both the Christian Hagia Sophia, of Constantinople. Built by the Byzantine in the early 6th century on the grandest scale possible, into a mosque Today, it's a museum. Hagia Sophia, of Byzantine architecture, is the pinnacle 6th-century glory days. This church was completed just about when Europe For four centuries after that, looked to Constantinople in Christendom, This clever was the biggest dome anywhere until the cathedral during the Renaissance, The vast interior of a golden weightless shell, gracefully disguising supported by 40 arched windows on the interior, original marble But the Byzantine empire and Hagia Sophia Christian mosaics and new religious symbols This church was built Mosques face Mecca. When Hagia Sophia they couldn't move the church, the focal point Notice how the prayer niche That's because it faces Mecca. The Galata Bridge spans called the Golden Horn A stroll across the bridge of Istanbul's Old Town, a chance to see how And plenty of options with a view. For fast food, Istanbul-style, fresh from the guys at one of the venerable and very tipsy Oh, man. [ speaking Turkish ] [ speaking Turkish ] This is Istanbul fast food, huh? Now this is Fresh mackerel. From near the Galata Bridge, it's easy to hop a tour boat up the Bosphorus the city from the water, and Asia on the other. You'll pass which pour thousands of tourists for a frantic day The boat passes homes who can afford some of in Turkey -- The dramatic Bosphorus Bridge was the first bridge ever And the Rumeli Fortress the year before they conquered Tour boats with plenty of The narrow and strategic strait busy with freighters, including lots of since this is the only route out to the Mediterranean. For more crowds you can join who ferry over and back from the Asian side Ferries shuttle in and out from all directions make their daily half-hour But for me, and vibrant Istanbul simply exploring The venerable Spice Market, still sells and the air is heavy with aromatic spices. You'll find everything saffron and cinnamon, dried vegetables and fruits, and a cornucopia of sweets, Turkish Delight. Okay, so this is Aran: It comes in but the most favorite is the pistachio flavored. Mmm. Istanbul's been a busy so it needed to be This imposing wall the ancient Byzantine capital. The wall sealed off the city, protecting it on the one side Dating from the 5th century, these ramparts stood strong Catholic Europe from the West and the Muslim forces until 1453. Finally, the Ottoman Turks, had been on the rise at the Byzantine empire, They established the city their growing empire Christian Constantinople Our storybook image sultans, harems, eunuchs -- in the Topkapi Palace. Built in the late 15th century, of the Ottoman empire Its buildings form the outer being used The further in you go, Among the most private The word &quot;harem&quot; means It's the huge suite with his wives, Aran: This is the largest room It was the entertainment room, like the wedding of This was the divan that The divans by the window the queen mother and the musicians used But when I say &quot;a party,&quot; do not imagine It was rather for So just a small The sultan, his mom, and his girlfriends. His favorites. The whole purpose was to provide future to the Ottoman throne. But most of the tourists a fantasy place -- It was an institution it was very well-regulated, and these rules The sultan was not above So the sultan didn't just Definitely not. It was the queen mother, mostly, that decided and it was, again, that decided whom Steves: And, of course, a state-of-the-art bathroom, complete with hot and cold Bathed in light from these this is where entertained, his power provided. Some of the sultan's opulence is still on display The exquisite Topkapi dagger with its dazzling diamonds Clearly, the Ottomans, were a wealthy power. The palace is also containing relics of Muhammad some of whom are revered This contains the arm of St. John the Baptist. And here's John's skull For Muslims, are those of Muhammad -- exquisite cases containing and his holy seal. [ chanting ] And, in the adjacent room, a &quot;hafiz&quot; -- all 6,000 verses of the Quran -- that sings verses 24 hours a day, [ singing ] For generations, Europe dreaded They were on the march, Vienna's fortified door. But, through the 19th century, corruption, and an antiquated all contributed to of the Ottoman empire. The Topkapi Palace represents For the pinnacle visitors seek out In many ways, remains much as it was enchanting with its maze-like network of fragrant eateries, No, it's your turn. [ laughs ] Is it possible to show you Show me something I don't need, Have some fun You have more I'm a lucky man today. Yes, that you are. A special price? Despite the tourists the heart of the Grand Bazaar giving the observant visitor [ speaking Turkish ] In its day, this labyrinthine under fine arches for the entire Ottoman Empire, locked down and guarded by more Today, but the complex is so big, to escape the tourist zones some authentic Surprises await in the low-rent [ crowd shouting ] A commotion of shouting marks the bazaar's These currency brokers fortunes of euros, for their clients. [ shouting ] Others put their The many jewelry shops that Turks love gold, not because they're but because it's considered and tangible place Around the corner, sooty smiths labor They're melting gold off cuts and sweepings back into a pure Gold, gold. To get a full for today's Istanbul, and explore the lively, For the visitor, Istanbul's single tram line lacing together sightseeing areas. While often packed, it zips directly through unaffected by We're riding it over the Galata Bridge where we'll pick up then climb up to the place where everyone Taksim Square, Taksim Square, gives us a good taste The traffic circles a statue the father of modern Turkey -- Mustafa Kemal Ataturk. If Turkey is you can thank this man. In the 19th century, was in a state of decline. Backing Germany in World War I the decrepit old empire and from its remnants arose founded in 1923 by Ataturk. The monument shows the military hero of and civilian Ataturk, of modern Turkey, representing the proclamation Nearby, a colorful trolley of the city's Istiklal Caddesi. It's teeming with people, lined with shopping temptations and showy street food, and sports some a reminder that to the city's western-looking Even today, and international consulates And the street offers of taste treats. These desserts come with &quot;Doner&quot; means &quot;revolving,&quot; and you'll know why when And, for a fast meal ubiquitous restaurants present and traditional Turkish food home-cooked style. And my favorite way is simply to hike of this main immersed in Stand still for a moment This is today's Turkey. Modern Turkey of 20-or-so Turk, Kurd, Armenian, Jew, Greek, Georgian, and Gypsy, from the very traditional The city is a huge draw still a crossroads And, according to every guest is Like its bridge, East and West together of modern affluence, and traditional Muslim faith, it's a dynamic well worth experiencing. Thanks for joining us. I'm Rick Steves. Until next time,