I flew into the US Navy's most versatile ship carrier, a cruiser or a submarine. It's a ship This is a San Antonio-class amphibious but not on an MV-22 Osprey. I flew into The amount of design elements ship is insane. From mundane things like how much force should be required to like why are all the handrails mounted But why this ship sometimes puts on a light combatants made things much more comfortable future iteration of this class by designing With a displacement of 25,000 tons, San Antonio besides those ships that have a flight deck and some amphibious assault ships. or LPD-17 class, these ships have a massive flight Ospreys near simultaneously, which I got to so everyone was wearing earplugs. The ship which is about half the volume Another key feature is the large well deck that or one Landing Craft Utility, also known as over 38,000 square feet of space to store But the particular ship that I'm on, is much very special. 7.5 tonnes of steel from the melted and casted into the ship's bow during its was named in honor of the victims of the September circle, the ship is sailing from Norfolk to One of the really cool things about this class San Antonio ships look smaller than they due to the slope that is prevalent throughout giant masts. These ships were the first system. Two giant structures in the middle antennas while keeping the ships radar cross a bag of popcorn kernels onboard to put but unfortunately we couldn't test it. We up inside the mast, but we were reassured that The towers are made of special material that with very low loss while reflecting other mast is slanted upward. This way, any external instead of going straight back, reducing would pick up, which in turn minimizes the this upward slant design was everywhere on the on the inside are installed vertically as you'd railings on the perimeter of the ship are also ladders follow the same principle, and of course Switching from the exterior design to the museum. This metal plaque that now bears the the World Trade Center, and installed on the ship. and the USS Somerset, are floating museums And just like the marines that they carry, these It's true that San Antonio-class LPDs have NASA's Orion spacecraft from the ocean in 2022, the Middle East to the United States for ships is to take 800 Marines and their and then transport them to land with the help by the US Marine Corp. There are also 360 sailors San Antonio ships could go underway as or they could sail alone, which is why LPDs are for point-defense against anti-ship missiles. that act as shock absorbers. This ship is not but it could carry a HIMARS. This was where missiles were launched right Remember those Ospreys? It just so happened of USS New York and got folded up, so the next Without any cargo onboard, Ospreys which is what these seats are for. is long range vertical assault and extraction. existing military helicopter, and, it can Even though Ospreys can fly horizontally, they because their rotor blades so big that the blades would hit the See that at the tip of the blade? It's an LED it easier to see the perimeter of the blades especially useful when two Ospreys are operating Given the primary mission of LPDs, there are with marines in mind. There is a 124-bed equipped with X-ray machines and 2 hospitals compared to aircraft carriers higher risk of injury due to the nature of officers' mess hall are large, so if needed, If you've ever been on any naval ship, you'd LPDs are no exception. But! The passageways so Marines with all their gear could be on standby shore on Ospreys. This wide passageway is pretty name for it. On USS Fort Lauderdale, it's called the city of Fort Lauderdale. I'm onboard USS Broadway. The walls are decorated with dozens of they even have the Broadway lights, San Antonio ships can house 2 an LCAC approaches to enter the but the LCAC and the ship first need to "Green Well" means the ship would not be But aside from radio, the LPDs can in addition or as a backup to the LCACs are cushioned monsters. For reference, in less than 2 seconds, and are quite fast and the LCAC turns gives you an idea about the amount for anyone who is suspicious, LCACs really do and yes, I did ask for consent before recording Under the skirt there is a smooth and If the LCAC wants to stay in place in she can just shut off her engines, sit down don't displace any water when they are and they must turn on blinking lights Besides damage to the LCACs skirt, another common metal, and sand, which can get everywhere there is a washing station at Little Creek naval they are rinsed with fresh water. but LCAC pilots are not getting paid to have the vehicle inside the well deck of a moving about a foot of clearance on either side, so it the LCAC is chained up so the motion of the ocean and because we just came in, the LCAC needs to be in the middle of the ocean. This is why the which not only generates the drinking water to wash LCACs and other vehicles as needed. climbing part of the gym. This guy is placing One thing that I found interesting was that no the best job on the ship. It didn't matter and was in charge of navigation, or someone who like the steering area, where one has to order to check and maintain the hydraulic systems or those who worked in the engine room, where it was hot and noisy. But they were Speaking of pride: "Sure, my name is Richard serving in the US Navy, Richie joined the New when 9/11 happened. "Many years later, they I happened to be on the commissioning committee" friends, Tom and Georgie, had an idea. of steel from a flange, from an I-beam flange from police, NYPD, FDNY and the port authority police, sailors that were gonna be manning the ship, It was really special to run "Ironically, it's 14 years ago to this Nov 7th, 2009, so it's kind of nice that The design of the San Antonio class reflects the quality of life for those onboard is just This is why all systems were designed for 90% the watertight doors were designed to be operated effort to secure the door was within 90% of the bunk beds are designed to accommodate the 96th percentile, which is is 6'3", you may bunk beds. But don't worry, this class was which is pretty handy if you want to sit up the top bunk doesn't have the sit-up The ratio of showers to troops and heads Prior to 1994, women could only serve which is why as soon as women were allowed the quality of life was improved for men, but not females had a larger sea bag allowance, lockers. So it was thanks to the ladies, surface combatants designed to have During night time operations, the bridge lights lights, because red dissipates much quicker than appreciate while underway, was the quality of from land, there is no light pollution, so the if somebody fell into the water when it's pitch It was just a man overboard ... drill. So they To mark the rough location of the man overboard, a water. The ship then performed a Williamson turn, divers. We were told that the chance of survival it's a different story. As you can see, seconds behind the swells, let alone a person, The San Antonio class is now considered to class initially hit the water, it was off issues with engines, pipes cracking and problems the US Navy assigned a strike team which took three years. It wasn't until the any major flaws. As the problems were solved, the and actually increased the number of ships but it doesn't explain why the Navy is now known as Flight II, to be less capable and Flight II is designed to be a scaled down because it would be replacing older Whidbey Ships, or LSDs. See, instead of designing a and going through all the pains of identifying and the US Navy decided to take a different approach. San Antonio ships, and to remove some of in order to make an affordable amphibious truck. new idea. Ticonderoga cruisers were built on hull. Similarly, multiple Flights of Arleigh Some of the features that have been eliminated iconic enclosed composite masts with traditional area of the ship, meaning that when the ship it experiences a twisting effect, which makes traveling at lower speed. This could be replenishment, where San Antonio ships' combined with the "suction effect" that all proximity to another ship. They just have to In addition to replacing the enclosed masts on and the size of the hospital would be cut in half. on Flight I were so good that the hull is being hospital ships: USNS Mercy and USNS Comfort. The design, Flight II would still be more capable The experience of sailing on USS New York was but I'm curious, what did you find the most want to see more videos like this, please,