The reason we consider Coraline to qualify to do with horrifying nightmare creatures underlings. It's easy to overlook other supernatural the mysterious trio of ghost children. These spirits were victims of the Other Mother -- over the years, to the point that they But before their untimely kidnappings, these own unique stories. To learn how their life experiences ultimately this video. This lesson is sponsored by Audible. Welcome to Horror History. The book and the movie adaptation of Coraline is the creation of a character named Wybie of The Other Mother and plays a part in the No such familial connection was present in Instead, author Neil Gaiman does leave us these kids' lives may have been like. For example, I researched the usage of words the only time period where each of these words 1750 to 1850, also known as the Georgian Era a few centuries to the beginning of his story. The small ghost boy likely came from a wealthy would eventually become the location of apartments There are multiple times when the boy mentions A governess is a woman employed to teach and they were usually hired by rich European families War 1. While the movie Coraline takes place in the is set in the United Kingdom -- Coraline's in Chapter 3. The ghost boy's family probably built and By the time of Coraline's era, it had been out as apartments. Mr. Bobo's level three flat is actually Since the ghost boy's family is implied have this huge estate, so big that it had there. It seems that one of the boy's hobbies was game where the participant would try to use perform tricks. The image of the governess carrying his hoop longest lasting memories, even after he had The Governess not only taught him the three but also seemed to impart life lessons. At one point, she told him: "nobody is ever bear." He would one pass this knowledge onto Coraline battle against the ancient creature. As a youngster, Ghost Boy had long curly hair of clothing that young boys of about 2 to to the early 1800s. Breeches were given as a right of passage, Maybe I need to get my cousin a pair of britches The boy enjoyed eating cooked trout and boiled As he got older, his family required him to He would be the earliest known target of the The Beldam. She used her skills as a seamstress to make He briefly explains how she manipulated him. "I walked through the scullery door ... and But she was waiting for me. She told me she was my other mamma, but I The boy's soul was taken, and hidden within the Beldam presides. The marble appears grey to most, but takes a mystical adder stone -- the same color of the fire that burned in his nursery on Since they've all lost their individual when they're speaking to Coraline, but using character uses, I was able to go through and We know the next one to be born is the girl one point says, "this is the finest food she's at least a couple hundred years old. So she's probably the one using words like meaning she was probably born in the 1860s Not as much is known about this girl, but dressed in what seemed to be spider's webs, her blonde hair. We never learn her name, so I'm just gonna the same thing I call all of the girls that She seems to really like flowers, and she Coraline takes a great liking to her when her, she too was tricked and captured by The grow up. She expresses that her joy was taken from or soul. The last of the children to be born was The language with occasional exceptions. At the picnic in Coraline's dream, she's Sliced bread was invented in 1928, so I'll She wore a brown shapeless dress, and a brown the color of her soul marble. She describes the Beldam feeding on her, until "Only snakeskins and spider husks." As the Beldam makes use of their souls for traits, and their memories fade away. Their names are the first to be forgotten, of anything, including their own gender in to them. Despite this, they do continue to exist in What I'm about to say isn't confirmed, does with their human bodies. It's stated that "the Other Mother could She could only transform, and twist, and change" Her world is inhabited by "Other" versions These beings also serve as The Beldam's There are three other humanoid entities: the The Other Father. Remember, the Other crazy man upstairs is and the Other Wybie is not in the book. So we're left with these three: two female I think these creatures were created by The the three ghost children. Another century goes by until Coraline becomes World by the Other Mother. As I mentioned near the beginning of this is the canon material that I use as my basis The graphic novel, the movie, the video game created by the original author, so they aren't But there is one more piece of content in The audiobook, which is available on Audible, The spoken words in the audiobook are the means the inflections, accents and enunciations determine the author's message; something I use Audible as the definitive version of It even includes interludes with original &quot;We have teeth and we have tails. We have tails. We have eyes. We were here before you fell. You will be here when we rise...&quot; At Audible you can find the largest selection you can keep forever in your Audible library. Right now, Audible is hooking up Horror History Just visit Audible dot com slash czsworld 30 day trial. That's Audible dot com slash czsworld. When Coraline refuses to comply with The Other dark space behind the mirror and locked away It is here that she makes contact with the She reaches around the dark room until she The tall girl warns her to keep her voice When they find out that Coraline is still that they've been trapped for a very long The boy is the one to suggest the idea that from The Beldam -- and they all explain to her when The Beldam lets her out. "Now we belong to the dark and to the empty The light would shrivel us, and burn." As Coraline curls up to sleep in the dark, children kisses her cheek and whispers an the stone. This is a reference to the adder stone given magical properties that will help her scan Coraline tells The Other Mother about her be planning the same for her, to which she in ghosts anyway." Coraline searches the entirety of the Beldam's a toy chest, the Tall Ghost Girl's soul Forcible and The Goth Ghost girl's soul After finding the first, the Ghost Boy urges the second, The Tall Ghost girl wishes her The Beldam tries to throw her off by giving try to warn her, saying that the Beldam does would try to help Coraline. They're right. It's a trap, but Coraline is able to escape final soul. The voice of the Goth Ghost Girl gives her "She has lied to you. She will never give you up, now she has you. She will no more give any of us up than she can change her nature." This leads to the big confrontation where opening the passageway between the two worlds but the Beldam catches the door as she tries Coraline suddenly becomes aware of other people Their hands move through her and she feels The voices tell her to hold strong and pull the door shut, dismembering The Beldam's As she crosses back into her own world, the Upon getting back to her room, she removes sleep. That night she dreamt of a picnic with the forms back. Perhaps rather than being ghosts, they were After eating, they play games in the meadow, Coraline thanks them all for coming, but knows faces. The kids thank her for saving them, but explain until she's defeated the hand of the Beldam world. The Goth Ghost Girl's explanation implies saying that they'll now set out for uncharted say. But before moving on, they remind Coraline to defeat the Beldam: to be wise, brave and The Boy hugs her and tells her to take comfort Which is not... that... reassuring. Especially coming from someone who got killed The children move away from her to a wooden They wave back at her before the dream goes When Coraline awakes, the marbles that had Whatever had been inside when was gone. She places the fragments in a box before formulating once and for all. Typically in a horror story, a ghost has some sticks around and haunts someone or something However, it seems to me that these three kids they were no longer in possession of their move on. They don't seem to need to hang around until at the bottom of the well, though it is possible abilities that they could go on knowing that can give, and that she would have no problem If you want to hear about the histories of on the left and drop me a comment about who Remember to subscribe to CZsWorld for new select ALL notifications and I'll see you Assuming we both survive. To survive: get a vaccine, use a facemask