Welcome back to the Gentleman's Gazette. In bad boy, James Dean. Now, you can use some to your looks. Gentleman's Gazette Theme Song Best remembered as disaffected Jim Stark in was also known for his whirlwind life that casual cool of James Dean lives on a pop culture from this bad boy of the silver screen. And an entry into this series, we still believe that he is a gentleman of Now, by the way, this video is another installment can find the full playlist of here. Let's and career before we take a look at how he James Byron Dean was born on February 8, 1931, Dean, a farmer, and Mildred Marie Wilson. dental technician, Dean moved with his family died of cancer when he was just nine years aunt and uncle back in Fairmount, Indiana. In school, Dean was a great student he played He studied drama and competed in public speaking. in 1949, Dean moved back to California to live with Santa Monica College, majoring in pre-law. major to drama, which his father disapproved play Malcolm in Macbeth and also participated in January 1951, he dropped out of UCLA to first television appearance was in a Pepsi was as John the Apostle in an Easter television Dean also worked as a parking attendant at a radio advertising executive, who offered Dean moved to New York City to become a stunt also appeared in episodes of several CBS television and Lux Video Theater. He then gained admission under Lee Strasberg. Proud of this accomplishment, letter to his family and he's quoted as saying, great people like Marlon Brando. Very few happen to an actor. I'm one of the youngest given this very strong image still today, movies before his death. Now, in 1953, director the role of Cal Trask, an emotionally complex of Eden&quot;. Kazan said that he wanted a Brando Dean. Steinbeck, who met with Dean, did not for the part. I'm not sure if you know this, is actually unscripted. His most famous moment Cal and his father. Dean's outfits in this with sweaters, as well as sport coat combinations and suits. of Eden, Dean was nominated in 1956 in the Role. The first official posthumous acting Released in the spring of 1955, East of Eden see debut in his lifetime. Dean's next film, popular among teenagers. As Jim Stark, Dean teenager; hiding behind a mask of indifference, yet yearning for love recognition and purpose. on a curb. The conservative tan suit he wears those of a frightened child. Jim suffers emotionally determined to not end up like him. He seeks falls in love with Judy, befriends outcast of gang violence and murder. While some outfits outfit was that of a red Harrington jacket, a T-shirt, blue jeans, and boots, but more Eden and Rebel, Dean wanted to avoid becoming typecast as of Jett Rink, a Texan ranch hand in the movie &quot;Giant&quot; in Benedict played by Rock Hudson, his wife Leslie played seen in typical Western wear as a young man an older version of his character in the film's and shave parts of it off to showcase a receding Best Actor Academy Award nomination for his was set to star as Rocky Graziano in Somebody Up There Likes Me in 1956. That played by Paul Newman. Tragically, Dean's at the young age of 24. A fan of auto racing a racing career. Beginning in 1954, Dean started purchasing vehicles, including 356. Just before filming began on &quot;Rebel&quot;, he competed California - winning first place in the novice class and continued in Bakersfield, California a month his class and third overall. Dean hoped to compete in the Indianapolis Warner Bros. barred him from all racing during shooting his scenes and the movie was in post-production was scheduled to compete at a racing event German mechanic Rolf Wutherich, who maintained to drive the car from Los Angeles to Salinas passenger. At 3:30 PM, Dean was ticketed for At approximately 5:45 PM, a car was passing of the Porsche. into the driver's side of the turning car, of the highway. Wutherich was thrown from the car, but Dean the other driver only had minor injuries. 'dead on arrival' at the Paso Robles War Memorial attended his funeral, while another 2,400 the procession. Today, the crash site has Despite his tragic death, Dean's legacy and mentioned, American teenagers identified with of Jim Stark in &quot;Rebel Without a Cause&quot;. Additionally, Dean's on-screen persona had an influence and culture. Elvis Presley said in a 1956 interview for Brando, poor Jimmy Dean, and of myself and of a menace. I don't know anything about Hollywood, You can't be a rebel if you grin.&quot; In their Al Weisel said, &quot;The industry trade magazine Dean the first rock star.&quot; Now, with the dean's into his signature style. Dean didn't abide by Hollywood standards of own rules. Many of the biggest male movie stars of the or Cary Grant, were of the previous generation side parted hairstyles and tailored suits. to dressing. Early in his career, he would show up barefoot trousers and he would arrive at lunch dates appearance and vulnerable screen performances that was characterized by a rugged blend of the years he spent on an Indiana farm influenced red Harrington jacket worn in &quot;Rebel&quot; will forever be his signature look. But, Dean of greater versatility including a leather inspired by his hero Marlon Brando. Now, prior undergarment, but Brando changed that in &quot;A Streetcar Named in his own films. He likely favored T-shirts for their ease penny loafers, and a cigarette. Today, an the norm for a great many men. But, in Dean's to wear. When dressing more conventionally, He could wear a standard suit, sport coat, or blazer in colors like brown He was often rebellious in his clothing choices, Simply stated: James Dean was an individual. how you can incorporate James Dean's style focus to his iconic &quot;Rebel&quot; outfit and we'll First, the Harrington windbreaker. No piece of clothing is more closely associated he wore in &quot;Rebel&quot;. Named for its association 1960s TV series &quot;Peyton Place&quot; and alternatively called piece of outerwear, which layers quite well. about it in this video. Now, you can look in other colors like burgundy, beige, or navy, which would also be quite and boots and jeans will give you a distinctly equally well with button-up shirts like flannels, Alternatively, you could try a related piece with jeans for a more rugged look. As with the T-shirt, denim blue jeans have the 1950s and it's important to note that a factor. Now, he wore a straight cut - not leg. Now, they had a high rise in a medium by many brands even today such as Levi's and style, known as the 501, is a popular choice. You can find a review on that style here. by Lee. Given the time period, Dean's trousers might be seen today. Now, you can opt to wear a higher-rise pair Now, for more modern take, go for a contemporary tapers close to the ankle. In either case, masculinity. Layer your outfit with a leather will be worthy of both Dean and Marlon Brando. off your footwear and for some added extra Brando, James Dean transformed the T-shirt being the backbone of a hyper-casual attire. that dean was famous for, a T-shirt is an fit is key. Dean wore T-shirts that were well-fitted All without hugging them. If you do plan to type of T-shirt you would wear as an undergarment. the kind of you get in a multi-pack from Target to get something that will flatter your form, Now, to look like Dean, pair the T-shirt with take a look at this video for six different Boots. In Rebel Without a Cause, Dean rounded T-shirt, jeans, with a pair of dark jodhpur such a look or not, leather boots should be They're versatile in terms of formality and highly durable. A quality pair maintained popular styles of boots today is the Chelsea Now, this pairs equally well with dress trousers, picking up a pair of Chelsea boots or other a lot of opportunity for some different combinations. investment and boots is no exception. Snapping up any that you're probably gonna have to buy another Instead, buy from a reputable source that help you save money in the long run, in addition to helping you look your best. a T-shirt, Dean can be seen wearing its slightly he was adapting the prep look that also defined simple to achieve and is definitely timeless. versatile options. These can be worn tucked level of your overall outfit. Polo shirts flannels or chinos as well as with denim. style staple. You can also wear a polo under and loafers. Now, this is a more semi-formal Sweaters. From a starring role in &quot;East of in 1954 entitled &quot;Torn Sweater&quot;, he was also frequently v-neck over a white dress shirt paired with a worn and frayed, black mock turtleneck was these styles of sweater, while different in looking to try Dean-inspired knitwear can or crewneck sweaters, pairing them with a a black or similarly dark turtleneck could wash denim for a reserved, monochromatic look. extravagant shades and, instead, sticking blues, blacks, browns, even greens. Such colors boots, ensuring a variety of style and combinations. region of France, the first iteration of Breton to protect fishermen from water and wind. striped shirt. Sailors have sported that look since the beginning were officially adopted into the French naval shirts into the realm of popular fashion. such as James Dean, Audrey Hepburn, and even John Wayne. Some but this does not have to be the case. Going color combinations can be a great first step. Breton shirt will be a great way to start Sunglasses and eyeglasses. Whenever you spend and functional; protecting your eyes and adding this and he often supported a pair of round while such styles remain very popular today, just so long as they fit your face shape and when outdoors, Dean could also be seen indoors glasses when reading. It's a testament to to pair a traditional look of the tortoiseshell Especially when outdoors and wearing sunglasses, as linen, is a great way to stay cool and maintain a same degree of his clothing, he was also quite quiff-like pompadour projected a devil-may-care of his sartorial choices. Before Dean, the quiff wasn't a popular style. It most men. Dean made the style of his own and it's since having another moment in the 2010s. Now, if look more like Dean's, go to a skilled stylist who can cut your hair between your eyebrows and the bottom of your cut, relatively long. This will help create and a shower, simply take a small amount of the pomade nice and warm. Work the pomade into your hair evenly, making Then, take a hairdryer and a comb or a brush style as desired. With a bit of hairspray while the word &quot;icon&quot; certainly has become fair that it does suit James Dean. Whether or the fact that his death at the age of 24 public. The combination of his rebellious perfect storm for inspiration. The style was simply rooted into functionality and versatility. and his confidence and cool shine through. or wardrobe item? Share with us in the comments with dark wash jeans and dark brown leather with a pair of Fort Belvedere socks. Check like these. Gentleman's Gazette Theme Song