Another thing I've learned is the bugs are bigger. Y'all got some Nashville Like in California we have Then I get to Nashville, I went to get in my shower one morning. There was a spider in my shower. Now this spider was so big, I thought I was interrupting him. I did, I went to open the shower curtain and I was like, &quot;Oh my God, I'm so sorry. I didn't know anybody He was big, and he was furry too. Yeah, I didn't know if I I didn't know. He was so furry, he had dander. I need my Zyrtec pill just I was like, &quot;Sir, the Head Help yourself.&quot; If I ever have to kill a spider that big, I am morally conflicted, because at that point that's a pet. Put a collar on that thing, that's Bubba. Bubba had plans that day. He was just getting That's messed up. If you ever have to you could hear the crunch. And if you hear the crunch, you know that thing had a soul. That's messed up. I used to kill any spider 'cause I don't like bugs at all. But over the past couple years for nature and insects. So now if I ever see a spider in my house, what I like to do is scoop take it outside, throw it in a bush, and then immediately go like this. But if I'm left with no choice and I have to kill a spider, I now like to start with an apology. &quot;Listen sir, I know you I'll be honest, neither was I. Truth is I don't know you. You could be poisonous So at this point, it's either me or you and I have chosen you.&quot; There was this one night I because that's what home alone means. And I was watching the &quot;Night Stalker&quot;. Did you guys see that one? The documentary about the serial killer that was in Southern California So I'm home alone watching this show. Super creepy, episode's done, I turn the TV off, and all of a sudden I hear I said, &quot;Nope.&quot; I ran to my room. I put on every piece I said, &quot;If he's gonna try to assault me, he's gonna have to work real hard.&quot; I don't have no weapons in the house. What's my self-defense weapon? Denim, three pair. After a while, nobody came in the house, but I kept hearing the noise. Finally, I go to the window, I move the curtain and I look outside and it's not a psychopath it was a mosquito the Or maybe it was a cicada, I don't know. I never seen a cicada in my life. But everybody kept telling Maybe it was one of those. Maybe it was a mix of both. Maybe it was a muscada, I don't know. Some Nashville geographic stuff happening. This was the kicker for me though. There was one night I was driving home and I'm pulling into my driveway and what do I see a That's where I draw the line right there. That's where I was like, &quot;All right, you know what Nashville, This is getting ridiculous. I'm not a big fan of wild snakes. Pet snakes I'm okay with. Like if there was a snake right here and he came with a co-signer. Like he came with a guy that was like, &quot;Oh yeah, I like that snake, that's a good snake. Him, I don't know him. He probably had that He probably just ate a baby. Pet snakes I'm okay with. Like, you know how sometimes and there'll be that one guy with like a hundred pound and he's just walking around. He's like, &quot;Yeah, you wanna I'm like, &quot;I'll do it.&quot; He's like, &quot;All right, 20 bucks.&quot; Yeah, I don't need no picture. But the point is, I was down. I was gonna do it if it was free, because free is my love language. Learning a lot. Being a California girl I actually had my very first And like I said, I'm from California. We don't get tornadoes in Now, earthquakes are scary for people who have never experienced one, but actually they're not that bad. To be honest, I will take an earthquake over a tornado any day. Like lemme tell you, I will ride that quake. Like hey. But a tornado though, I don't This is what happened. We were asleep, it was 3:00 AM. I get one of those amber the alert that goes off real loud. And I was like, &quot;Okay, first of all, what child is getting kidnapped at 3:00 AM that they need to wake me What VIP child is this that they think at 3:00 looking for Honda Civics?&quot; A silver one, it's always silver. I check my phone, whose kid is this? And it says, &quot;Tornado warning, take cover now in a basement.&quot; Ooh, my heart started beating so fast. I said, &quot;Oh my God, do I don't even know.&quot; Because I'm from California, we don't do basements in California. That's dangerous, 'cause I wake up my husband, I was like, &quot;Babe, babe, we got an alert on the phone. It says there's gonna be a tornado. We gotta go in the basement, Now my husband is an army brat. He grew up everywhere. He spends a lot of time &quot;Oh, we used to get these all the time. Don't even worry about it. Just go back to sleep.&quot; To sleep. But they just woke me up. I don't think that's what they want. He was like, &quot;What county is it in? Oh yeah, that's like five miles away. We're good, we could He went back to sleep, I got up, I said, &quot;Oh no, We sleep with one of that plays like the rain sounds. So we were already in We had our own storm going on. It was on surround There was stuff blowing up on the windows, but I didn't even notice it was a good episode that night. I was like, &quot;Ooh, this I get up, I turn the sleep machine off and that is when we can hear Then my husband, &quot;Go, go, go, get up, go. Go, get up, go.&quot; What? But you said we can watch it. We both start freaking out. I'm grabbing things we don't even need like Windex, a stapler. Where do we go? Turns out we do have a basement. Guess where it is, outside? Like we're in the &quot;Wizard of Oz&quot;. We keep it locked for safety and we keep the key in the You highly underestimate until you're in an emergency situation. I don't know how you guys keep Maybe you're highly organized. I open up my drawer, I gotta sift through a bunch of dead batteries, hella rubber bands. We don't even use rubber bands, but every time we get Why? What is so sacred about a rubber band that we can't throw it away. Whether it came wrapped or asparagus, it's in the drawer now. And that asparagus rubber Woo, we better save this. Got about 86 keys in here. We don't even have 86 locks. Finally find the basement key. We go outside, unlock the door, And that is when we realize that we are fully unprepared We have no emergency necessities no food, no batteries, nothing. Just me, my husband, and hella spiders. And they were all looking like they recognized me. &quot;That's her. Listen ma'am, I know you but this is from a