Translator: Gisela Giardino A while ago, I was in a bar. There, was a woman at another table She was completely captured Meanwhile, the kid stared at her. Maybe another kid would have messed up But not this kid. He waited for a while, went behind his mother He tried to summon her with caresses And she never realized A question haunted me: How many times I might have been in the same situation What is happening to us? Why do we live obsessed Today we unlock our cell phones This is once every 6 minutes I decided to do some research on this What is happening to us Stanford University is located the cradle of the world's The Persuasive Technology Lab where brilliant researchers work -- in their own words -- to see how to use the websites and mobile apps we use to manipulate what we think Trying to persuade others But digital devices and the huge volume accumulated from our online activity are creating a new way to manipulate taking advantage detected by behavioral economics, psychology and neuroscience. Examples abound. On the social scale, the proliferation of fake news, the widening of all social gaps. In the personal orbit, parents and conversely, meetings where everyone is more concerned about than with what happens around them. A growing difficulty to focus. This phenomenon began that everything on the Internet A group of companies had to find a way to earn money without charging users. First thing they did was to place ads and start charging advertisers. Then they started collecting to ultra-segment the message Finally, to increase their profits, each company needed us to spend And that was how When the product that it's a dog-eat-dog race. Facebook competes against but also with very different products like YouTube, Netflix or Fortnite. Every second you're not there hypnotized it's time they cannot sell That's why they use visual and all kinds of tricks to distract you even when you are using other platforms. Not long ago, the former president made public his regrets. In a presentation he said were absolutely aware which would exploit to maximize the addictive effect. But he was not the only one to admit Recently, the founder of Netflix declared that their greatest enemy is sleep. His goal is that we sleep less Selling products that are not good for us But at least the executives of companies were on the defensive. The founder of Netflix overtly tells us that his company which are totally detrimental in order to make more money. To achieve these goals When we are going to buy a product, say a pair of shoes, We wonder things like, &quot;Are they good quality shoes?&quot; &quot;Is this a reasonable price to pay?&quot; But when the product is free, If the product is free Why a large multinational company would want to incur the huge costs a video platform, an email system, for us to use for free? Nothing is free in the business world. If we are not paying with money, An especially sensitive ground The increasing use of photos and videos gives an absurd, overblown importance to aesthetics and physique over all other dimensions of our being to the eyes of others And networks take advantage of that. Social media takes advantage to spy on the lives of others and make an impact on others to keep us endlessly mesmerized. Moreover, since each of us shares very little spontaneous content about the highlights of our day, conveniently edited to look when we later ride a bus, surfing on a social network, it's inevitable to have the wrong feeling that we are the only ones more full of obligations and mishaps It's inevitable that the comparison leaves us disappointed with our own lives. The decision of who we follow is key to breaking the effects While it was always true that there were some popular people somehow this is implied. Today it's measurable The likes and the number of followers is the currency in which And each action is subject for the amount of likes it gets. As a result, we begin to live life to show it, not to enjoy it. That is the narcissistic swamp and which, curiously, The desire to find someone leaves us in a particularly Last month, the U.S. Department sued the world's largest dating company. Charges are for taking advantage of those who are not being able allowing them to be contacted then inviting them to pay to get in touch who will never reply their messages back. Is that really anything goes and take our money? Another particularly attractive group which is an easy target is our teenagers. Adolescence is the time find the most fertile ground. But the problem starts long before that. Babies have also been discovered YouTube is full of videos specifically designed to hook them. Although the recommendation says that babies under two shouldn't spend the reality is quite different. The average time for two-year-olds today is 2.5 hours a day. And a third of babies uses screens At this crucial stage of development the electronic pacifier for parents and it's replacing the use of speech and upbringing games. Many parents even take pride to handle these devices. They see what their children learn the animals, the colors, but they don't see the lessons Several scientific studies the negative consequences of this change in areas such as language acquisition, attention span The biggest risk for our children is not the early use of screens, but adults exceedingly slipping away. (Applause) In the face of this, some people say: &quot;After all, it's always the same. In the 40's the villain was the radio, in the 80's, video games, For Socrates, the villain was writing. There is always something the elders But this time is different. Because, while we keep calling this ultra-light supercomputer this device is everything. It's indeed a cell phone, a TV, a GPS, a game console, a camcorder, an Internet browser, a flashlight, a calculator, a stereo... and many more things. Not only it is everything. It's with us everywhere and at all times offering the promise capable of filling the void Yet, in this era of hyper communication, studies show that the number was never as high as it is today. There is no worse loneliness And all this is going to get worse. So far only a handful of companies But new ventures are developing software to bring these manipulative methods The use of manipulation have just began. What do we do? Do we throw away our cell phones No, it's not necessary to go that far. The advantages of connected life are too great to give up. But we are in an unequal battle and users that act with naivety. We signed a contract without even being able to read or know what the hell we are signing. To even things out, we need to understand in order to defend ourselves If we asked ourselves how it'd be easier to imagine they want to induce in us and what kind of information For example, the next time keep in mind that the business is that you search, not find. Devices and networks keep us absorbed, distracted, impatient and focused But it doesn't have to be like that. It's time to leave naivety behind We can reclaim the control of our lives to take advantage without being eaten up by it. To take advantage of the supercomputer to create, not just to consume. To use it to live shared experiences instead of being locked upon In short, the challenge is to put at the service of the life not at the life that others (Applause)