Disney's latest movie Zootopia has something for everyone! Cute talking animals, a positive message a movie for the whole family. MatPat Awesome Intro** *Music Hello Internet! Welcome to Film Theory. creepy that I'm sitting solo in a movie surrounded by screaming children. But where the world is so full of fear, hate, a bright colorful fantasy world where Ahh who am I kidding? Disney movies are Pinocchio gets kidnapped and sold into SCAR GETS EATEN ALIVE. But Zootopia may just be the darkest of the you totally should. Right now, in fact. Not just riddled with spoilers so consider Zootopia tells the story of Judy Hopps. her dream of becoming the first rabbit all-animal society. Here in Zootopia, but some predators have mysteriously Judy to crack the case. Not only is it a really fun detective really important social issues, like how (picture flash sound) Gah! Simultaneously hilarious, but just downright depressing. But when you cover, Zootopia is truly a story about race. The The Predators. Facing prejudice and pretty thinly veiled allusion to Don't believe me? We see an ice cream police being quicker to draw weapons hypothesizes that predators are Man, those are some heavy themes! I feel &quot;responsible choice&quot; to take their kids to Zootopia instead of try and explain eugenics to a about racism&quot; concept may not be deeper than that. Because this children's be a cop is actually a retelling of a crack cocaine was devised to destroy black communities in America! Bet you didn't see that one coming. Whoa-ho, time out MatPat! You, the skeptical viewer (HEY DID YOU CALL ME A DOG HOW DARE YOU) are probably shouting &quot;Disney may go dark, but Hey, I understand your skepticism but Remember when Dumbo drinks some water wasted that he hallucinates pink tree? Or when Alice from Alice in that make her perceptions of reality even a Breaking Bad joke in the movie! is willing to go, did you watch Maleficent? If you did you much a fairy tale retelling of the story Yeah, Disney makes fun animated movies afraid to tackle some pretty intense the audience. So, why not crack cocaine? And by that I cocaine and not why should we all do crack cocaine (Oh). Crack Reagan-era slogans. Now obviously the crack, but Zootopia has its own substance between crack and Night Howlers are it's about to strike Spoiler o'clock, so pumpkin it's time to run away from the ball now. The ball spun wildly out of control. Spoilers ahead, let's go. Evidence number both synthesized from harmless plants. are flowers that grow wild on Judy's that they were key to some psychotropic after they've been harvested, Judy stops a weasel who's stealing them to Similarly, if you took Crack Cocaine back walk right on past it without another Crack, and Cocaine in general, comes from indigenous to much of South and Central America. Raw Coca is so harmless that most people habit-forming sodas back in the day. But pounds of leaves results in a few grams Of course then you have to chemically cook it to turn it into Crack, so there turning leaves into crack. And in complicated chemistry lab used to sheep and his partners. Given the variety and sophistication of reasonable to conclude that synthesizing similar processes. But this leads to one like, say, crystal meth? I mean again, scene after all. Well, here's the thing: crystal meth isn't Meth's active ingredients are usually synthesized from chemical sources, that the only use Walter White has for Hoho, isn't this a happy episode? against all those disney toy unboxing Anyway let's cheer things up a bit. Oh ho ho, lookit dis guy! [MatPat back to crack pls] Alright, back to crack. Evidence number effect user in the same way. While Zootopia doesn't tell us a whole Howler serum, we can get some clues by influence. Emmitt Otterton scratches up rambles incoherently about the night no reason. When Judy goes to question the affect animals almost instantly as one conversation and the next he goes Howler effects include mania, incoherence and near-instant aggression. How does this compare with crack? Speaking from personal experience, I... have Trust me, we go to some pretty crazy uh... not that far. I'm not passing out crack pipes in the However a butt ton of internet research Effects of smoking crack include large doses, aggression, paranoia and not on that list. Sorry, Dave. As for how fast you feel the hard to locate an exact number but get it into your bloodstream outside of official sounding people on the internet almost instantly. Obviously the drugs aren't meant to be this is an allegory after all - but based Evidence number three: Night Howlers and Zootopia makes a point to make sure that and that predators are the only ones quote unquote &quot;going savage&quot; as a result While the movie doesn't explicitly tell it's pretty clear that we're talking about but we see Nick Wilde the fox denied because he's a predator, and the tension predators is a transparent allusion to #BlackLivesMatter movement. Also Zootopia's population is ten percent twelve point three percent of the U.S. The Predators are also all disappearing from to as the city center when Judy is police academy. All of this mirrors the group that was 1980s: inner-city A paper by future freakonomics Steven Levitt stated that the incidence as high in large cities with low-income Philadelphia and Washington DC. Crack disproportionately, as during the crack eighty-five percent of arrests made But I'm sure some of you are probably still act like you're on crack, affected So what? In this movie there's a big Assistant Mayor Bellwether is developing a serum that her minions She admits that she began the conspiracy keep the peace by making everyone afraid As she puts it, fear always works. But it's not like in real life there was provide african americans with crack out Right?? WELL, evidence number four: Night There are some OG theorists cocaine epidemic back in the nineteen government conspiracy, as that showed in minute to get serious. I should mention that this is a really If you're interested in any of this, do There's no way that in the final minutes this topic the true depth and explanation show to just inspire you guys, to learn and not always take new stories at face value. Anyway, regardless of the truth of this in Zootopia. In 1996, a San Jose journalist report called Dark Alliance, which between the American government and the predominantly African-American Like I've already said it's a really deep into here, but basically America, supported a &quot;gorilla&quot; [lol] Not those gorillas, guerrilla. Though it's an easy mistake considering that Just use gorillas, use the gorillas. And old NES game. Anyway this support in the involved with a bunch of drug smugglers. And this is a hundred percent true a traffickers had been provided with Once the funding for the Contras ran out, money for themselves. And how do you do Lemonade stands? Bake sales? Nope! Drugs. They flooded the west coast while the government willingly looked the other way - or, as some speculate, provided planes to By 1987 crack was ravaging practically hitting low-income black neighborhoods the A man by the name of Ricky Ross believes was a conscious choice by the government; made out of a desire to keep the country spread of communism. Ross has said, quote: &quot;I valuable to sacrifice a particular in order to save the whole It's an idea that Mayor Lionheart echoes towards the end quote: &quot;The wrong thing for the right Zootopia even seems like it's of the crack epidemic. In the movie Mayor like he's behind the Night Howler scheme only to return to power after his release. It's awfully similar to Washington DC smoking crack, jailed and then reelected Stay classy, DC. Long story short, the spread of crack in America is still in it was the government silencing me for atomic bombs and Batman. Or my old Man I've got to be on so many watch Anyway, there you have it. Zootopia: educating our to spread an organic rage drug to Kinda makes you yearn for the simpler days But hey, that's just a theory - a depressing theory - and a conspiracy Aaaaaand... cut!