stop Bring the child to me. Mrs. Hua, I asked you to bring the child over to me. Alive My daughter is still alive How can this child survive? This is a medical miracle. Medical miracle It's so embarrassing. I am a descendant of the Tao I was almost suffocated to death by you scumbags when I was just born. Just spread it out I won't be laughed at to death. Get out of here I take care of my child myself Miss, slow down. Mommy is so beautiful She is indeed the beautiful and cool eldest daughter of Shenshi Group. It's a pity that I was deceived into marriage by a scumbag I heard the sound again It's just me and my baby here Can I hear my baby's voice? Now my mommy saved me Otherwise, you will be tricked into raising your rival's daughter. Moreover, the entire Shen family will be forced to death by their scumbag father. What Shiyuan will kill me and the entire Shen family My mother gave me the phone. Come You go out first Good lady Slow down. husband Where are you now Mingyue, I'm on a business trip abroad When I come back, I will come to the hospital to see you and dad. Liar Liar The scumbag dad is a big liar He didn't go on a business trip at all. Still in the VIP delivery room upstairs Bai Yueguang, who took care of him, gave birth to a child. Doctor, how is my wife? Congratulations Mr. Ye Mother and daughter are safe Great, can I go in and take a look? Can good My daughter and I narrowly escaped death Yan Zhiyuan actually accompanied his mistress to give birth to a child No, he won't do this to me. I want to go see it myself ah What happened to my husband? It seems the brakes failed. Take a deep breath. Take a deep breath. Ahhh Inhale, inhale Use force Good, good, the baby will be out soon. Come on Use force Hold on, hold on. It's a girl. Sorry, ma'am. After inspection You gave birth to a stillborn baby Please accept my condolences. How is it possible? I don't believe my daughter died. Hold the child for me. Miss, stop looking. You just had a car accident Can't be stimulated anymore Miss Lady Please accept my condolences. Your child has died Just let him go on his way with peace of mind. Miss, I'm sorry Zhiyuan Sorry Ye Family Zhiyuan Ye Family Could it be that I have been transported into the novel I read last night? Shen's Pharmaceutical Group Falsifies Neonatal Drugs 500,000 newborns lost their precious lives The parents who lost their children surrounded the Shen family in anger Dad, sister-in-law, brother, sister-in-law Mother Big Brother, Big Sister, Big Wife Wife Wife Yan Zhiyuan You clearly provided those drugs to my father. You are the culprit Why you should do this Wife I want all of you in the Shen family to die. Hahaha I'm telling you the truth Because marrying you wants to get the Shen family's wealth My beloved woman She gave birth to two children for me. I can't let him be in the dark forever. I gave birth to a child for you I want to have a baby for you too. Get up for me What did you give me? A disability An incompetent Oh yeah There is another Your beloved daughter I threw her away as soon as she was born. What are you born with? What did you say My ears are not good either. I said your beloved daughter I lost her as soon as she was born. ah Replaced with my own sweetheart Otherwise, you think you have raised a daughter for so many years Was he really adopted from an orphanage? Holy, you can't die well. You can't see whether I'm dead or not But you have to die today. Shen Mingyue is here Where is it? This is Vinci Beat him to death beat Surprisingly Traveling through time and space to become the baby girl who was killed at birth Sniper Hell Madam, your condolences. I'll take the child away. So that you won't be sad No, Mommy, you can't let anyone take me away I'm still alive How come there is a baby? Is that my hallucination, mom? Mommy, please save me stop ah Woo So cute and beautiful Sleeping soundly Wife Who do you think our daughter looks like? How come you are so beautiful? What's the use of being beautiful? It's not life and death. Nonsense What life and death I, Ye Zhiyuan, swear I will definitely give it to Sisi And Wanyu has a legitimate status Otherwise I will die. I don't allow you to say that. Yue Zhiyuan You actually betrayed me yes Mingyue I like you I love you I can't live without you Please marry me But I know You are the daughter of a wealthy family of Jiangcheng Billionaire Group I may not be worthy of you I don't allow you to say that. You are the person I like That's enough Mingyue, I know I have nothing now. But I have a heart that loves you Don't worry, I will only love you in this life I believe I will support you. Ahahahaha Zhiyuan, I know your company is having difficulties. This is 20 million You take it and use it Wife, it's all my fault I still need your money now You say I'm useless? Zhiyuan, don't think about me I just want to help you I'm sorry, wife. It's my fault that you were misunderstood by your parents. But don't worry I will definitely make achievements I will definitely make my dad accept us. I believe you can do it Wife, you are so nice Ye Zhiyuan, your promise to me Your vows of love are all fake Mommy Mommy Stop crying first Shen's Group will be sold out by my scam tonight My parents said you had bad intentions. I don't want to do it for you I'm willing to break up with them Help you personally He took the position of general manager of Shen Group That's my parents' life's work. Selling Shen Group would mean their death. I can't just watch them get into trouble. Secretary Lin, please go to Shen's now. The group brought the official seal. Urgent Go now Check it out separately A woman named Liu Sisi is good daughter Mommy doesn't know why she can hear your voice Don't worry, I will protect you and your family. Won't let the bad guys succeed Miss, you just gave birth. Weakness I'd better stay a few more days before going home. Hospitals are not safe You'd better go home early. I feel at ease What do you mean? Nothing. The young lady is really smart. Don't cry or make a fuss Very cute Isn't it? This child is a gift from God to me. Lingling Wizards The joy is endless I'll just call you Ling'er Ye Ling'er is a good name, my wife. I'll ask you to take your things to the car first. Good lady Wife I was on a business trip and couldn't come back to accompany you in your delivery. Thanks a lot No wonder mommy was deceived by him This scumbag is not only good-looking Good acting skills too Can win the Best Actor Award Oh yeah Wife Look what this is This is me kneeling down one step at a time Kneeling down at Jinguang Temple to ask for the amulet Give it to your daughter Keep our daughter safe for the rest of her life Don't trust him The scumbag father gave 800,000 yuan in incense money to the Jinguang Temple to light the eternal lamp Bless your lover to have a child Just give me a free amulet I don't want Leave it alone Well done mommy Don't be fooled by the scumbag's small favors Ouch Why do you think our daughter is so pretty? Come quickly and let daddy hug you Ouch! Oh baby I'll go too. I'll go too. Stay away from me You haven't even held your first and second child. You're willing to hold this. That would be young Besides I'm so busy with the group's affairs. I don't know how to be a father. This is different Daughters are better than sons. That's dad's little cotton-padded jacket. Mommy, don't be fooled by him. He only loves the white moonlight and the child on the cover I married you just for your white clothes Dowry, etc., squeeze out your dowry They will break your legs and put you in prison. Let you give way to his white moonlight ah What's wrong with you Feeling a little weak Then I'll call the doctor. No Zhiyuan, I heard that tonight You are going to hold a dinner party at the Grand Court Hotel The group has an important merger and acquisition to announce Mingyue, how did you know? Don't you usually not care about the group's affairs? Secretary Li came to visit me today Inadvertently mentioned Ahaha Why Wife You said that it was because I didn't accompany you well. Not spending time with the children So you are angry The burden of Shen Group is on your shoulders. I feel sorry for you but it's too late How can I blame you? Our Mingyue is the most sensible one. Don't worry, wife. I will definitely come back to accompany you after I finish my work tonight Come back and be with your children OK I'll wait for you at home What is Xiao Ling'er? Miss Secretary Li is here My mother took the child away So that someone can watch at the door Don't let anyone in. Good lady Miss You asked me to get the official seal Did you know that Mr. Ye wanted to sell Shen Group? I work at Shen Group every day. I just got the news on the way. How did you know? Thanks to my little baby This matter Don't tell my parents and the Shen family yet. Don't worry Shen Group is the life's work of the master and the old lady. If they knew Ye Zong wanted to sell Shen Group I'm afraid I'll have a heart attack. Ye Zhiyuan's official seal is in my hands now I want to see what tricks you can come up with. Miss, I heard about it. My uncle has a little lover living there. I heard that it was a childhood sweetheart's mother-in-law Often visit Now almost everyone around here I thought they were a family. I heard that my son-in-law is closer to us than to us. So many years The happiness I have always been proud of It's all an illusion Miss, don't be sad. Let's go back and tell the master and the lady They will definitely support you. You can't tell your parents They are in poor health I can't let them worry I can handle this myself. Good lady I listen to you. This combination lock is broken. Why didn't you tell me? This is my son's house. This house is obviously our young lady's dowry. How did it become your son's house? You don't need to say much mom You came and the door lock broke I just changed it and haven't had time to tell you yet. Not in time Or are you deliberately guarding against me? I traveled a long way and took a three-hour drive. I'll give you red eggs. Isn't it just to kill chickens and sheep for the remaining mistresses? Postpartum care Send a few red eggs Just want to trick my mom into being grateful to the bad guy mom I am allergic to eggs I'm allergic, why did I send it to you the last few times? You didn't mention any allergies. What are you allergic to? This is an excuse to make me look good. That's because our lady is afraid that you will be sad. You kept it from me. Every time you send eggs And forced the lady to eat in front of you several times It almost cost our lady her life. I think you two just dislike my eggs. Using allergies as an excuse Mom, I've said everything I should say. Don't be unreasonable. How dare you say I'm unreasonable? How many good women chased my son when he was young? Why did he choose you? Because my mom is the most beautiful and richest It's really a good deal. Mommy, don't pay attention to her Mom and son You are back Look at the good daughter-in-law you chose back then. I'll bring him eggs. The door lock code has been changed He didn't tell me He also said he was allergic to the eggs I made. He looks down on me. Yeah, he despises me. This is looking down on our Ye family, right? I can't live anymore I hahahaha The old witch bullied me again Mommy, don't cry Who wouldn't? I cry for you Be good, be good, don't be afraid anymore This is grandma. Not some old witch. Grandma is awesome The old witch is mad You are also my mother Aren't you being unreasonable? You came all the way here The noise made our young lady unable to rest. Still scared Did you see that, Miss? Mom, you go back and rest first I have something to talk about with Mingyue Don't let them bully you for nothing. As a statement OK Wang Ma, you should take a rest too. Good lady If you have any problem, just call me. I'll be there soon. Wife's mother She has good intentions after all. Why make such a fuss? Really a good baby for mom Zhiyuan You've always known I'm allergic to eggs. Do you also think that I should Risk your life to eat an egg to please your mother Honey, that's not what I meant. After all, he is the elder. It's not easy for him to raise me Wife, can't you be more considerate of him? Forgive you You and your mother have been cheating me for more than ten years. Trying to seize my property He wants to kill my whole family. Say you are ungrateful wolves All lift you up I see I tried my best husband Aren't you going to a dinner party tonight? How come you're back? Oh, my wife. I was just about to ask you something. Why did you take away the official seal for no reason? You said this? I saw a golf course last month. Want to invest and buy it well You ask Secretary Li to get the official seal Just to satisfy your selfish desires Buy a golf course. Do you know how much you delayed me? Didn't it just ruin your plan to sell the Shen Group? Husband, I don't know You didn't tell me anything. Of course you don't Got you Normally you don't ask the company at all. Do you know how much damage this has caused to the company? Look what you said Shen Group was founded by my parents. How could I not care? I know you have been working for Shen Group. Otherwise Waiting for Ling'er for 100 days I will go to the group to help you share the group's affairs What did you say I said I want to go back to work in the group Shen Mingyue Do you think the company is some kind of playground? You said take the official seal, then take the official seal You said you wanted to go to work. You are a rich girl Miss, what else can you do besides making trouble? Is this who I am in your eyes? You really disappoint me. I knew you were like this. I wouldn't be that kind of person at the beginning Nothing Ye Zhiyue starts from now on I am no longer a puppet that you can manipulate at will. What's wrong, Miss? I just saw Ye Zhiyuan go to find Liu Sisi Oh, that's great. Uh huh hahaha Hello Mr. Ye Let's move closer to Mrs. Ye. Oh well Keep good Mr. Ye Mrs. Ye This is the best family photo I've ever taken. Ye Family Family portrait Let me show you Well, look at this one. Give me back the wheelchair. Stinky Cripple I want a wheelchair. Come over here and I'll give it to you Don't even think about it. Still so stubborn Tianlong, why do you always have problems with a cripple? Because he fucking made Mingyue I have no choice but to be a bastard. The son pays the mother's debt It is only natural Why do you want to switch with him? Hey hey hey Put him in the wheelchair. Push me down this staircase If someone asks Just say he fell down by himself Don't touch me, go away. Don't touch me stupid Yeah Miss, it's not good. What happened to Yunkai at school? It's all my fault. If I hadn't failed to see Yun Kai He won't climb a tree. Water escape kick falls Disability Now I am still discriminated against and bullied in school Mommy, don't blame yourself Big brother's legs are not your fault at all It's a scumbag dad I heard from my elder brother that you wanted to eat the fruit from the tree. The older brother went up the tree to pick them. It was the scumbag dad who took the ladder away. That's why my elder brother fell down. Ling'er, what did you say? Yunkai's broken leg was not an accident He suffered so much since childhood. Suffering so much It's all thanks to his father. More than that As soon as possible, he should get rid of the son he had with his mistress. I was also sent to my older brother's school. My older brother is bullied by that little bastard at school every day It was him who pushed the older brother down the stairs. at last My elder brother suffered from severe depression because of him. He committed suicide by jumping off a building My child My Yunkai Mrs. Ye This is the supplement that the student's parents asked me to bring to you. Ask me to apologize to you He said it was just a joke between kids. I didn't expect such an accident to happen. Please forgive me I don't forgive him, why should he beg for my forgiveness? Even if they die in front of me I can't get back my healthy and happy Yun Kai It's you who's gone Get out of here Aunt Where is Ye Zhiyuan? His son was injured. Why don't you come see him? I called him immediately He said he was busy and had no time right They are taking a family photo. How can you care about my son's life or death? Give me your phone Good lady Secretary Li, go help me with something Mommy is domineering The butterfly and the mistress are going to cause trouble Didn't I remind you? The merger and acquisition of Shen Group was suspended. We haven't received Shen Mingyue's 10 billion worth yet You have to be patient before How could you indulge that Tianlong? Yunkai was sent to the hospital. I am the one who indulges It's Tianlong who feels wronged. Did you accidentally hit too hard? Okay, okay, I know you're all frustrated. But don't worry. wait for me When we hold the Shen Group in our own hands I'll let them all die. Then come back and marry you Then don't let others flatter me. Who is it? Who is it? Received reports from the public There are illegal activities such as prostitution here Please follow us to the bureau. You arrested the wrong person. Shinmingyue Madam, what's wrong with you? My son was taken away You are still enjoying your life at home. Mom, why are you so loud? Ling'er was woken up by you You Shen Mingyue Your husband was arrested by the police. Do you still want to hire this girl? Mom, how can you say that? Ling'er is my most precious little daughter I don't allow anyone to see my mother Sister-in-law, don't blame mom. My elder brother was arrested by mistake last night. Hasn't come out yet. Mom is so anxious You don't know the seriousness of your words. Don't take it to heart How did Ye Zhiyuan get arrested? What did he do wrong? What could Zhiyuan have done wrong? Isn't this already said? It was a mistake. The police made a mistake. Go and explain it to him immediately. Get Zhiyuan out Where did the mistaken arrest come from? I made the report call myself. So, since it's a misunderstanding That's fine. The police will definitely let him out. How come it's okay? Even if it's okay Is the detention center a place where people stay? You must rescue him today. I'm not that capable. You you you Mommy Mommy Sister-in-law, my elder brother was arrested last night. Hasn't come out yet. How much suffering you have endured Don't you feel sorry for him? Ye Zhiyuan cheated Keep the mistress under my nose Harming my child Harming my family I still feel sorry for him I'm afraid I can't kill him. My sister Yunkai was bullied by her classmates at school Push down from the building Still unconscious now Why don't you go see him? What's so good about a stall? Hey mom, sister-in-law Mom, this is really disappointing. Yunkai was a nationally famous genius back then. Mom loves him so much Who knew he was so unpromising? I went to climb a tree and fell down and became disabled. Mom is really heartbroken. It's the same for me as an aunt. Although we don't meet each other often But our hearts are full of joy Mommy, he lied to you. Ye Yuting is the worst He saw his brother in trouble. And deliberately weaved everyone away I want rescue otherwise My brother's legs will not miss the best time to rescue them. Hey, stop. No more going forward Is it time to change the bedding in my room? Go quickly It hurts Hey sister-in-law Why didn't you go to the front to entertain? I haven't seen the clouds clear for a while. I'll go find him Oh, sister-in-law Look, it's getting dark. Yunkai must have gone back to his room to read. How about we send him some food to his room? Don't starve him. Yes, that's right. Yun Kai forgets to eat when he starts reading Ahhh Mother Dad, grandma, save me. You also hurt me. Yunkai Why are you looking at me like that, sister-in-law? Yunting How old were you when I married into the Ye family? Why did my sister-in-law suddenly ask this? You were only 5 years old when I married into the Ye family My mother was not in good health. I kept you by my side for 17 years. I'll pick you up from school. I was taking care of you when you were sick You are afraid of the dark at night, I am just coaxing you You were bullied by your classmates at school and ran back to complain I came to your house at night to vent your anger Uncle, I raised you. Do you admit it? Of course I know my sister-in-law is good to me I know why you Sister-in-law, what do you want to say? Some people are just bad at heart. I believe that bad people will definitely get their comeuppance. Isn't it the duty of a sister-in-law to take care of her younger sister-in-law? Okay, stop talking nonsense. Hurry up and rescue Zhiyuan Zhiyuan is suffering inside You enjoy at home Do you believe me, I'll let Zhiyuan divorce you? Eat my mommy's Live in my mommy's Even the card I used was my mom's secondary card. The whole family is vampires Who gave you the courage to be so arrogant? Are you scared? If you don't want to be kicked out by the Ye family Just be good Be obedient and listen carefully Of course, my sister-in-law's mother won't really let you divorce my brother. But you should change your temper. This is someone's daughter-in-law. How can you not understand the Three Obediences and Four Virtues? The Three Obediences and Four Virtues Finished early in the morning That's bad. I've let you guys eat too much these years. Treat me like a fool to protect you Sister-in-law, why don't you admit your mistake to mom? Because my brother treats you so well. If Ye Zhiyuan wants a divorce Then there is something else for me I won't leave you My mother sees off You two, please. Hum Shen Mingyue You've lost your mind. If you are divorced by my son Then you'll be a broken shoe. Call my mother a bad person Sister-in-law, stop being so petty now. You're a divorced woman. Who else can see it? Even if divorced I am also the daughter of the Shen family. I don't need anyone to look up to me I just need to look up to others. Okay? Don't give up on irrelevant people like this in the future. Sister-in-law, hahahaha mom My son is not at home He doesn't recognize me as his wife. He's going to kick me out of the house. I am not alive anymore My sister-in-law advised my mother Shen Mingyue, you are a villain struck by lightning today Waiting for my son to come back I'll let him kick you out. And you two useless sons And this short-lived little bitch Drive them all out Let you starve to death on the streets So many years I give you face I don't want you to humiliate me and my children. You guys are shameless Then I don't need to be polite to you. I'll call the security guards to throw them out and sue them. Outside the door Don't let irrelevant people like this in anymore. Good lady Sister-in-law Shen Mingyue You wait for me This Shen Mingyue pissed me off No, we can't just leave like this. We must make Shen Mingyue, that little bitch Rescue your brother and Sisi's sister-in-law Oh my god He kicked us out. What else can we do? How did he kick us out? I want him to invite us back. Mom, what's wrong with you? Hey, everyone, please give your opinions. The daughter of the Shen family is my daughter-in-law. He took advantage of my son's absence. Kicked me out of the house. The daughter of the Shen family is a well-known philanthropist Rescued many orphans It's impossible to do such a thing. Maybe there's some misunderstanding. What do you know? Sheng Mingyue's charity money My son earned that. Good thing my son did. What does it have to do with him? Mom, stop talking. Dear all, filial piety comes first Shen Mingyue can treat her mother-in-law like this What good can he do? Don't be fooled by him. Mom, please get up first. Dead girl sister Let's make the performance more realistic. Hahaha, do you know? Shen Mingyue usually doesn't give me food or clothes. This time, while my son is not at home They kicked me out right away. I'm old now. How do I live? I hahahaha Sister-in-law, I beg you Just let mom in, sister-in-law Madam Ye, the young master's injuries are slowly healing. Coma may be caused by excessive emotional stimulation But what should I do if Yunkai remains unconscious? This is a heart disease I am helpless ah What? My brother is recovering. He has suffered serious damage in these years. Need to regulate through sleep Ling'er, what does it mean that your elder brother will recover? With me here, Big Brother will stand up again. Yun Kai, you must wake up Oops, Miss. The mother and daughter of the Ye family are ruining your reputation at the door. A lot of people are watching Cheat me, cheat me Harming my child I haven't settled accounts with them yet. They haven't finished yet. I beg you Just let mom in, sister-in-law The lady is here again. Mother-in-law and sister-in-law How can you throw dirty water on me? Everyone, Yunkai is my eldest son. Still being bullied at school Being pushed down from a height Fall and get seriously injured Still in coma The doctor said he had a heart disease I thought of asking his grandmother and aunt to go see him. Talk to him in front of him Maybe the child will wake up. But I didn't expect that the two of them were not only unwilling to go And he cursed my Yun Kai I really can't help it Asked them out of the door Wasn't Yunkai a former genius boy? That's a good kid, right? Yunkai is giving extra lessons to all the children in the community. My niece listened to his lectures I got 50 points in the exam. I also gave my children extra lessons. And my home Such a good child was injured and fell into a coma One of you is a younger sister One is grandma I don't know how to take care of Making a scene at the door Will this child be healthy? You guys don't want to harm Yun Kai So that's why he was kicked out. You stupid idiot What are you saying? I am his aunt How could it possibly harm him? A stall is in disrepair Listen to everything you do while you're alive. Get out! No one can humiliate Brother Yunkai. Get out! Get out! Get out, get out, get out, get out Get out! Get out! Get out! Get out! Yunkai, so many people haven't forgotten you Wake up soon Mrs. Ye, this is a gift prepared by Ye Tianlong's parents. I hope you can calm down. Signed this letter of understanding My cloud has not been washed yet. Ye Tianlong didn't even apologize No, they want me to sign a letter of understanding. No door Don't be angry first It's all because the kids don't know better. I don't know how Yunkai got injured while joking. Ye Tianlong didn't do it on purpose. He also blames himself So I still hope you have a lot of Don't argue with the kids. Ming is Liu Sisi's sister I entered the school through the back door Ye Tianlong and his classmates isolated Bahrain My brother is spoiled by you. You big bad guy Hahaha Don't touch me Hahaha Convinced or not? Hahaha Teacher Liu, save me Hahaha, just play. Don't affect others. Alas Ha ha ha Dead Cripple You thought someone would come to rescue you. Hahaha Hahaha Look at him like that ah So you are Liu Sisi's sister What about this letter of understanding? I've already written it for you. Just sign your name. Easy Yun Kai still has old injuries on his body This is not the first time Ye Tianlong bullied him. My child has been bullied for so long Teacher Liu, you have made a great contribution. Mrs. Ye, why do you talk like that? I am an excellent teacher in school It's always fair and just. How can you hit someone? You are too uneducated. No wonder your son became disabled. This is your retribution. Anyone who insulted my son I won't let any of them go. Excellent teacher, right? The end Xiaoliang's mom is awesome Bring me all the surveillance footage of Class 1, Grade 3 School surveillance is confidential Not everyone can watch it if they want to. Get me all the surveillance footage of Class 1, Grade 3 School surveillance is confidential Not everyone can watch it if they want to. Mrs. Ye's surveillance cannot be viewed at will. Now, some students' parents Feel like you can do whatever you want This is the school Not your home This bad woman Not only bad but also ugly Now anyone dares to climb over my head Principal How come you are here It's just a small matter, but you're still making a trip. Get out of my way Ms. Shen, what do you want? My son was pushed down the stairs at school Yun Kai was beaten How is this possible? I have repeatedly warned teachers and students School is a place for teaching and educating people How could such a horrible bullying incident happen? Is there some misunderstanding? My son is still in a coma. Not only are you not apologetic at all, This Teacher Liu dares to come to my door and threaten me. How dare you come to threaten Miss Shen? Principal, he is just a housewife There is no need for you to take him seriously We are an aristocratic school If he offends us Then where will his son go to school in the future? Shut up what are you I didn't believe there was bullying in school But I saw your virtue today I think it's hard not to believe it The security guard followed Miss Shen's wishes Show me the surveillance. I want to see what happened. Cannot dial Don't let me go hahaha Ha ha Teacher Liu saved I play when I play Don't affect others. ah You, Ye Tianlong, bully Ye Yunkai so much You are not ashamed And protect them You're not a person. The world is like this, the strong prey on the weak Your son is useless, what does it have to do with me? I'm just a teacher I'm not his babysitter. I'm just a teacher I'm not his babysitter. Being a teacher is to teach and educate people. I'm not asking you to help the evil. Why do you hit me? Just based on what you said about the survival of the fittest You deserve to be beaten if you are weak You are proud now If you have the ability, tell your son not to go back to school for the rest of his life. Unrepentant Still wanting revenge on my son Sun Xiaoshi is such a person and should not be fired. What to keep for? you were fired Principal, are you crazy? Don't you know who my brother-in-law is? Blind fool Miss Shen is the director of a celebrity school You are the school director The name of the celebrity school is me Shen Mingyue's parents Dare to bully my son Liu Rongrong in my school You are no longer qualified to be a teacher. No, Principal Principal Hum People are low-key It gives you the confidence to bully others. No matter who your brother-in-law is Having a stupid and bad sister-in-law like you How dare you bully the Shen family? It's his bad luck. The security guard asked me to drag him out quickly. I don't ask you anymore. Principal Don't worry, Miss Shi I will report this matter to the Education Bureau. People like Liu Rongrong are not worthy of being teachers anymore. Openly accepting bribes Just reporting to the Education Bureau is not enough Let security screen surveillance Gathering information Call the police and I'll put him in jail. Principal Sun's Celebrity School Bullied Children Not only my son This is your fault. It's my mistake One month only Clear up this unhealthy trend If you can't do it, you will become a celebrity The first principal to be fired in the school's history yes Sister and brother-in-law You have to make the decision for me. Shen Mingyuan, that bad woman She fired me. And told all the schools in Haicheng not to admit me I can't find a job now What is Shen Mingyuan? How dare you do this to you? My husband Tianlong originally came from a single-parent family. Discrimination at school From now on, Rongrong will no longer take care of me. What will happen to this child's future life? Mom and son You are not at home Shen Mingyue, that bitch You don't treat me and your sister as human beings at all. He almost killed me. Don't worry, Sisi Wait until I get the Shen family's property I must Shen Mingyue is beautiful Um Shen Mingyue You are back Not that I heard You kicked my mother and Yuting out Why don't you know You made my mother sick. You go to the hospital and apologize to him. Scum dad, don't say anything else The ability to pass the buck is really amazing You haven't been back for a week. As soon as I came back, I got angry You're so embarrassed to say that My mother asked you to protect me Why don't you go? Isn't it a misunderstanding? Wouldn't it be better if you explain it clearly? Why must I go? Why didn't you catch it? What's wrong? It's all out Why say so much? It's not about whether you are going to apologize to my mother or not. I'm telling you My mother likes jade recently You buy twenty or thirty If you coax the old lady, she won't bother with you. Oh my, I'm so mad. There are such shameless people in this world I really want to pinch how thick the scumbag dad's face is What are you doing? This guy is really thick-skinned. It's okay. There was a mosquito on your face. What mosquito are you? No mosquitoes It's not about whether you want to apologize to my mother or not. I work hard outside to earn money to support my family You'd better Make my mom angry when I'm not around Insult my mother Do you know that my mother raised me Raise me up That's not an easy thing. Oh, it's my mother's difficult rhetoric again. Your mother's hardship is your fault What does it have to do with my beautiful mommy? Beware of outsourcing scumbags Well, I don't want to go What did you say I said I don't want to see your mother. What's wrong? In the past, as long as I said this Shen Mingyue will compromise immediately Ask for money Asking people to give Not my wife. Is there anything going on with you recently? If you have something to say to me Why don't I give money? Don't unconditionally condone your mother's humiliation I've been blind for too long Otherwise, this dog man is not used to it. Hey, nothing. Jade and gold are not cheap either. Otherwise, husband, you can just give it to me first. My 20 million I'll buy something and send it to your mother. I pay Oh, husband. That's your mom. If you don't pay, who will? I'll give you 20 million Your father died early. It wasn't easy for your mother to raise you and Yuting. Only 20 million My husband is still willing to give it up, right? You are a filial son. Husband, you wouldn't be reluctant to part with even a mere 20 million, right? Buying a house and a car for a mistress costs more than 20 million I can't bear to leave my mother's place Ye Zhiyuan, you are such a filial son Actually, my mother is not that materialistic. What have you been writing for so long? This is the invitation to Ling'er's 100th day banquet. I've got it. Qingyun Hotel is going to hold a 100-day banquet for Ling'er Qingyun Hotel right The most luxurious one in Asia Qingyun Hotel yes He is not a little girl Why are you being so extravagant? You're not allowed to do it. Why not? Ling'er is my favorite He deserves the best No, the girl is still young. Such luxury will have an impact on him. I won't allow it. nonsense Are you planning to secretly hold a 100-day party for Ye Wanyu? I don't want to do it. Not only that Ye Tianlong snatched his brother's qualification for admission to university Zhatian wants to hold the Hundred Days Banquet Held together with Ye Tianlong's celebration banquet My son was seriously injured and fell into a coma Grab his admission qualification Dare to hold a celebration banquet Vietnamese Army If I just wanted to divorce with the kids at first Now I want you, a bunch of ruthless people, to All go to hell Honey, I'm not targeting you. But Ling'er is still young You dress so extravagantly When she grows up It will definitely have an impact on her. We should keep a low profile You don't have to say anymore Ying Er's 100-day banquet is set And Zhou Xinran, who made the down payment, will also go If not Isn't it a waste of time for others? My Wanyu can only hold the 100-day banquet secretly Shen Mingyue's daughter But the son can hire a rich man's daughter I really wronged Wanyu. What a coincidence I have a friend He also held a hundred-day party for his woman on July 22. Let's invite the richest daughter to come and support him. Let's invite the down payment to go and show him some support. The scum butterfly actually created something out of nothing What do you mean I have a friend? Isn't it him? It's settled. July 22 Let the richest daughter go and show support to my friend first Hahahahahaha What are you crazy about? Hahaha Husband, go tell your friends You little girl movie What's the 100-day banquet? Too extravagant is not good for children But I said you, Zhou Xinran, would come to Ling'er's 100-day banquet it's because of me Shen Lingyue is Ling'er's mother Your friends Why is she anything? Shen Mingyue You disappoint me so much Miss, you just gave birth. Why is Hu Yue so angry with you? He wasn't like this before. My mother, the Moon Man, has already cheated on me The woman he had outside gave birth to my child on the same day as me I was deceived by him This is true Miss, are you mistaken? Uncle He doesn't dare. As long as he destroys my natal family, he dares to Hey, it's Mr. Shen Your whole family is suspected of medical fraud I now require your cooperation according to law We go back to the bureau for investigation Please fake it Sheng Mingyue Do you really think you can kick me out? This is my son's home. Now my son is back I can kick you out anytime. Sister-in-law, my elder brother hasn't been back for a long time. When Daddy comes back, he either wants money or gold, silver, and jewelry. Who wants him to come back? Sister-in-law, I'm not saying that your man doesn't come home Women should also reflect on this Did I do something wrong? Otherwise This life is worse than that of a widow. Liu Sisi introduced a rich second generation to Ye Yuting He is called Jiang Fan for this Jiang Fan Betray Mom and Harm Big Brother He didn't know that Jiang Fan was a victim of domestic violence Sister-in-law I hope you can reflect on yourself like this after you get married. Hum, you don't have to worry about who Yuting marries. Now all your family members have been arrested. They have to have Pia Pia Pia sooner or later Shen Mingyue handed over the key to the safe You want the key to my safe? Yes, the house Passbooks, jewelry and gold bars Hand them all over So that you don't have to secretly subsidize his mother's family expenses in the future Right? The safe is full of my own things. Why should I give it to you? Shen Mingyue you little bitch You dare to stop me Do you believe it? I can kick you out of the house right now. I told my son not to give you a penny I'll starve you and your little bastards to death. Oh, you dare to say that about my child This is the end My sister-in-law actually hit OMG Forgot about you, didn't I? Shen Mingyue, I'm going to fight you Ahhh Miss Don't do it. stop Stop it! My son son Mingyue, are you okay? Mommy Mingyue's parents just made some fake medicine It harmed some common people What does that have to do with Mingyue? Stop bullying him. What a fake bear saving a horse How dare we bully our son? He was the one who hit me and your sister first What is a slave? You divorce him immediately. Let him and his children die of starvation in the streets Mom, what to say? The moon is my wife Besides, he has been with me all these years, starting from scratch. How can I just abandon it? Brother, are you confused? Get out of the way No matter what happened to the Shen family Don't worry, I will never leave you in this life My wife will always be my scumbag dad I started acting again. Thank you, Zhiyuan Oh, my wife. What about the company seal? Bring it to me What do you want the official seal for? This is not Yue My father and elder brother were arrested. This company can't stop. Give me the official seal. I want to find a way What if I could save them? You were the one who sent my family in. You will rescue them. Oh yeah Honey, I know you are always kind and generous. Just so happens that you see here is a settlement agreement You signed this for him Ye Tianlong This kid is pretty good. Let's not delay their future. Did You Know Yun Kai was harmed so badly by Ye Tianlong You actually want me to sign this letter of understanding? Why bother taking children's fights so seriously? Yun Kai was injured and in coma until now You saw him again as his father. Asked him a question As soon as I came back, I was asked to sign this letter of understanding. One sentence Am I still a person? Ye Yunkai is a living creature. We don't need to be on him. Waste extra time But Ye Tianlong is different That kid is smart. A genius They also want to be recommended to key universities Can't we make friends? You're a disabled son. You've harmed someone's genius son. That's right, sister-in-law We can't be so black-hearted. No wonder everyone is so anxious to get me to sign a letter of understanding It turned out that they wanted to snatch my son's admission qualification. I don't invite Ye Tianlong to have corrupt thoughts and morals. He doesn't deserve a escort Shen Mingyue, did I give you face? Do you still want the group seal? One is his own rapid rise One is the future of an illegitimate child Ye Zhi, which one would you choose? Where is the official seal? You can only choose one between the official seal and the letter of understanding Shen Mingyue, are you okay? I want both the letter of understanding and the official seal. A greedy person gets nothing. Miss Get them out From now on Without my order Don't allow them in Please, Shen Mingyue, this is also my home. Why are you chasing me away? You can try Okay, your parents, your brother and your sister-in-law. All of them were put in jail. Your Shen family is finished. I wonder how long you can keep being so arrogant. Bad Guys Big Bad Guys This bad guy dares to hit me Mommy, be careful, or you'll be struck by lightning. ah Son Son Son, have you been struck by lightning? My son won't really get his comeuppance. What did you say You, please call 120, hurry up Hey, someone here was struck by lightning, come here quickly Shen Mingyue, this vicious woman with a scorpion heart Caused Tianlong to lose his admission qualification You got injured and hospitalized again A dead star Specially targeting your Ye family Disaster insurance He won't die even if he gets in a car accident Wait for the Shen family's verdict to come out He must be sealed even if he doesn't die. This Shen Mingyue Strange, isn't it that there is something wrong with the Shen family's medicine? My son is healthy. My daughter too. Good health He is also tall My son is also healthy. Everyone, I sent the Shen family's medicine for testing. Shen's medicine No problem Even healthier than advertised What's going on? Yes or no The seven great leaders of the National Academy of Medical Sciences in our building The descendants of the medical saint Sun Simiao are here Everyone should review We conducted laboratory tests Especially the drugs reported The conclusion proves that Shen's medicine is fine That's good. Not only is there no problem Shen's neonatal medicine also specially uses Tianshan Snow Lotus To replace the original artificial snow lotus Shen's Pharmaceuticals is not guilty Besides, it is also good to have the credit passed down to future generations. The conscience of the industry Miss Fortunately, you invited seven medical masters in advance. Otherwise, the dirty water thrown on Shen It's impossible to clean it up so quickly. My mom is the best Finally the truth is revealed My parents and my older brother and sister-in-law will be back soon. Ling'er, do you want to meet your grandparents? And uncle and aunt They must all like you Mr. Shen Mr. Shen is out came out Mr. Shen, you have suffered a lot. Mr. Shen is out Mr. Shen Mr. Shen, you have suffered a lot. Thank you very much for your support Can Mr. Shen survive today? It all depends on your trust I, Shen Chengrong, guarantee that the products produced by Shen are absolutely genuine. We sincerely ask people from all walks of life to supervise good good Mom and Dad, Mingyue is coming Where is the bright moon? Parents, elder brother, elder sister-in-law You have suffered You girl I thought I don't agree with Ye Zhiyuan Be the general manager of our Shen Group Are you mad at your dad? I no longer care about my parents. Yu'er, mother I miss you so much Such a big thing happened in our family Are you scared? I hope your parents can rescue you. Our family is reunited. Ah, this is Ling'er It's your granddaughter. This is our little Ling'er. Fortunately, Mommy asked the medical master to remove Clear up grievances in time Otherwise, my grandfather and uncle would do it for the family. Take all the blame on yourself Then both of them were sentenced. The Shen family is really finished. What's going on? I seemed to hear Ling'er talking How does this little girl know I intend to take all the blame Hong Wen also intends to take the blame It was the little girl Ling'er who was talking just now, right? Otherwise, no one here can call me uncle. Ling'er is so small You shouldn't be able to speak. I didn't see the little mouth move. Am I hallucinating? Mom and Dad, let's go home first well Let's go back first Yeah Bright Moon This time, it was you who invited a medical expert to save the whole family. To Dad You may not know This time, we were framed by the Shen family. It's Ye Zhiyuan, this little scumbag Dad framed my grandmother's family just to avoid the storm Mommy also took over all the Shen family's property The Moon Over Ye Zhiyuan What are you going to do? I'm planning to divorce I took all three children away Where can such a person with wolfish ambitions leave? Good No more divorce My two brothers and I are dead. Mingyue quickly found a lawyer to divorce Ye Zhiyuan You can live at home with your children from now on. No, I won't let Ye Zhiyuan go easily. Parents Don't worry I have plenty of ways to deal with those evil people. Grandfather and uncle The Shen family was able to escape the fate of being destroyed this time. Because good things come to you. It would be best if you could do 100 good things to thank the public. 100 good things 100-day free clinic good Shen's company hired 100 famous doctors to provide free medical consultation for 100 days Thank you for your trust Did you also hear Ling'er's voice, Dad? You heard it too Yi Zhiyuan is a ruthless person. He had nothing at first It is our Shen family who has contributed money and effort to make him what he is today. Now he wants to destroy our Shen family Don't fight back when you get beaten. It will only embolden the enemy. It's time to bring Ye Zhiyuan back to his original form But don't act rashly Your sister's method of dealing with the Shen family crisis this time very beautiful I believe he will definitely find a way to deal with Ye Zhiyuan Let's cooperate with him. A hundred days of diagnosis You must do it with 100% sincerity. dad Don't worry How much is this medicine, girl? It's too expensive. I can't afford it. Aunt Shenshi Group's 100-day free clinic Free consultation This medicine is also free This medicine doesn't cost money. It's free. This is the first time I've seen a doctor and taken medicine for free. Really no money Does my spouse need to pay for medical treatment? As long as we are from Daxia No one wants money. I have to call all our relatives. Neighbors are also invited to come If you need anything from now on, just come over here. Really no money Really understand How come Mingyue's father-in-law and his family are all fine? Was released You seem to really hope something happens to them. Look at you, how can I hope that my father-in-law and mother-in-law Something happened. You just like to think too much. Wife, your wife How can a couple hold a grudge overnight? I said it again, but the slap still doesn't make a sound You said you were also wrong last time Let's take a step back I forgive you. Can you forgive me for this? The scumbag's ability to deceive people has declined So stupid Women are always deceived What bad thing does the scumbag father want to do this time? Wife, I heard that the richest daughter Zhou Gladly invited bigwigs from all walks of life Come to our Ling'er's 100-day banquet Yes, bigwigs from all walks of life will go there. I just have a few friends They also want to participate It's okay. You don't have to worry about it. I'll entertain them myself. Don't you want Ling'er to hold this hundred-day banquet? Oh, now I think about it. This child There is only one hundred-day banquet in a lifetime Not only to do We have to do it in a big way It's late. I forgot my keys. I bought a new car When my wife's 100-day party comes, I will personally pick you and Li Er up to attend the Hundred Days Banquet Let's not feel bad if we don't do bad things for a day good Wife You're so nice. I'm not going out today. I'll stay with you and Ling'er Wife Wife Your Shen family will soon become paupers. Baby, I have obtained the official seal of Shen Group Shen Group will be ours soon Not only that Ye Ling'er's 100-day banquet is also ours I have turned off the surveillance of the villa. The switch is also off. I tell you Give me some slack Don't cause me trouble. rest assured Mr. Ye kidnapped a woman and a baby. That's good Oh, there's a power outage. Mr. Ye The goods have arrived The final payment of 20 million I can only give you 10 million first. After my 100-day banquet is over Shenshi Group is mine. I will give you another 20 million at that time. Damn Ye Zhiyuan, how dare you Believe it or not, I will let him go now. Ha ha ha ha If you don't believe me, There is no other way to go. What should I do, Boss? Contact Shen Family Asking price: 100 million See if they are willing to redeem this mother and daughter. Yes, the Shen family has plenty of money. Did Mr. Shen receive the photo? I want your sister and niece alive. Prepare 100 million Photo may be composited How can I be sure that my sister and Linger are in your hands? Say something to your brother You say it or not You say it or not Big brother Ling'er is also in their hands Mingyue, don't be afraid I will definitely save you and Ling'er Young Master Shen really loves his family. Prepare 100 million Deliver to Dongjiao No. 7 warehouse before 4 pm tomorrow Otherwise, just wait for the bodies of these two people to be collected. Walk and drive to the bank What's going on? Why is my little head so dizzy? Oops, it's dark again. How long have I slept? What is this place? Why is mommy tied up? Ling'er, you're awake. Don't be afraid that his uncle will come to rescue us I see My scumbag dad hired someone to kidnap me and my mom. I was drugged. Asshole, you even hurt a baby Oh no This drug is too strong. I'll be dizzy for a little while longer. woke up Everyone says the daughter of the Shen family is beautiful I didn't expect it. So beautiful Miss Shen Serve me well tonight otherwise I can't guarantee that when you and the child return That's complete Hahaha Ahhh Fuck you, you bastard who refuses to drink and drinks I'll kill you Don't deceive me What's going on? The boss is haunted. It's the child. It's the goblin that's going to kill him. Catch him for me, yes, yes Oh hey Yeah yeah yeah yeah The stamps are gone. What are you still standing there for? Hurry up and chase me Don't run Woman, you can run pretty fast. Is it today? Tianfei put your ten fingers I'll cut them off for you one by one. Big Bad A bunch of weak chickens It's hard to attract lightning I don't know if my mother will be scared. The turtle is a little monster Ling'er, you are so awesome You saved my mother. You are my mother's lucky star I love my mother every day Mom is the best Ling'er, your uncle is here to pick us up. Mingyue, what's going on? My uncle I defeated the bad guys. Do I help? Big Brother These kidnappers have no humanity. God can't stand it. The thunder struck them. Yes, God has eyes. The bad guy is so tired Ling Er No power Slow down. Slow down. Don't choke Mingyue, drink some soup first Thank you, bro. Oh, Mommy is hungry. I'm starving too. I want to drink 18 bottles of milk Our greedy girl is really good at eating. Hey, can you eat something good? Look at our Ling'er It's better than the kid of the same age. Our Ling'er is the most beautiful little girl Of course my granddaughter is the best. Hmm What What happened? I listen to my sister-in-law. Find someone to check the villa My mother was assassinated Fainted How is my mom? No aliens were harmed Already sent to the hospital Dad wanted to steal my 100-day banquet It's so crazy. Ye Zhiyuan must not be spared Ye Zhiyuan doesn't know that Ling'er and I are back yet Mingyue, are you saying that Ye Zhiyuan has already made a move? We in the Shen family can't always stand and take the beating. Got to go back It can also interfere with them Mingyue, you are right. I'll arrange it. Hum baby This time I will definitely let his surname be Shen Nothing really what you said You said it hahahaha Ahhhhh What the hell place Husband, husband, wake up quickly Ahhh what the hell is this place My husband, all this must have been done by the Shen family. Don't let them go. What do you know? This is just a dog jumping What does a wall mean? They didn't find Shen Mingyue This is good for us. What good things Are you crazy? What do you know? I'll tell you As long as Shen Mingyue and Ye Ling'er are in my hands I want the Shen family The Shen family doesn't even dare to fart. The Shen family really cares about Shen Mingyue, their married daughter. Send the entire Shen family out They are different from us. The Shen family can give everything for their family. Tell you including becoming a pauper The Shen family is really a bunch of lunatics Stop feeling sad and go away I'm freezing. Wait for me Ahhh Fortunately, Yunkai was transferred to the sanatorium in advance. Otherwise, my brother's meridians are already unblocked. You can wake up soon. Yunkai, you woke up. How long have I been unconscious? The cold body Now it's warm and comfortable Hello, big brother Get out of bed and walk in a straight line for mommy. I can get out of bed and walk in a straight line Hello, big brother. Huluhulupitongtong Meridians Big brother, please wake up and protect mom and sister Ling'er! Ling'er sister Down Down I am Ling'er Not a dream This is my sister. I can hear her voice Clouds Clear Your legs can move. Yunkai, try to see if you can stand up. I I Don't you believe in yourself, brother? You have to believe in your sister too. Faint You try it Maybe. Try it. Try it. good I'll try ah Try it Brother, you are so timid. Not as big as me mom younger sister I did it Yu Kai, you can finally stand up Big brother looks down on me I think it's three steps and two steps I feel relaxed now I'm fine Of course, everything will be fine with me here. I'm very good. Come to Yunkai to eat more I like it very much I like it. Put it in my mouth. Don't make me cry I'm a child Crying is scary Good for you to eat Delicious, delicious, more Ling'er is still young Can you give him these? It's fine Ling'er is healthier than other children. It's okay to eat a little I'm so awesome How could I have an upset stomach? Xiaoliang Mommy I want to give more. Fish soup is delicious It tastes good. Give me some more. Give me some more. I haven't had fish soup in 800 years. Mom, my legs are healed. It's better to keep this a secret. Yeah, I thought so too. There are clouds There's something I haven't told you yet. I will divorce your father. Mom, I know Ling'er tells you I support you You have always been a sensible child. Just like the wind I don't know how to tell him yet He has always admired his father. My second brother is coming back from abroad. I'll tell him then I think he will understand our hearts. My 12-year-old self refused to go to school every day. The second brother who doesn't read Xie Rufeng Dad sent him to study abroad In fact, it means that someone takes him out to eat, drink and play games. My second brother was ruined by his own father. Mom must bring my second dad back as soon as possible Yue Shiyun You can always be more shameless than I thought Mom, you can't be involved in this matter. Call uncle Send someone to secretly bring my second brother back from abroad You're thoughtful. Mom was almost mad. Raise your brother Dispatch your research results It's really for Ye Tianlong's illegitimate son Be a concubine in the next life Concubine Yang's younger brother This is the scientific research result of Ye Tianlong's training on me He was deceived by the mother and daughter It's true Zhadie thought Ye Tianlong was a genius I can help him climb higher in the future. Why If one day Zhadie knew that she had been deceived How sad it is I don't know. What if you refuse to divorce me after knowing this? That's disgusting. Husband, why are you looking so gloomy? Tomorrow is the Hundred Days Banquet We are about to take over Shen Group Become a real leader What else are you unhappy about? I can't contact Lao Wu. I always feel like something's going to happen Could Shen Mingyue have already run away? Why are you running? So many people are watching you. Shen Mingyue is just a woman Even with wings, you can't run away I'd better send someone to the Shen family to check. Hello Boss Ye should pay the balance. Did Shen Mingyue run away? Did Shen Mingyue run away? What are you running for? We are some old men. Can't watch a woman With a baby who hasn't been weaned? I tell you Ye Zhiyuan Don't think of finding excuses not to pay us the balance. Yeah, I know. Shen Mingyue and the others did not run away Shen Mingyue and Ye Ling are still in our hands Tomorrow's Hundred Days Banquet If the Shen family dares to mess around I'll ask someone to chop off Shen Mingyue's fingers and send them to them. Hahahaha, parents What finger? You heard wrong I'm talking to your dad. Tomorrow's 100-day banquet at Qingyun Hotel You have to behave well then, understand? Sister's Hundred Days Banquet What am I showing? Look at this silly kid. Those who go tomorrow are all bigwigs from all walks of life. Especially Zhou Xinran He is not only the richest daughter A leader in scientific research Ordinary People I don't even have the right to see him once in my life. You just won the National Science and Technology Award Ask your dad to introduce you to him tomorrow You are now eligible for admission to university. Dad, is it true? I can still be admitted to a key university Key universities are shit. Tianlong, you are a genius Won the National Science and Technology Award before the age of 20 Dad wants to send you to Kyoto University, the best university in the country. Your future will be limitless then. My son tells you From now on, you will be the pride of the Ye family. Mr. Wang, oh Thank you, Mr. Ye Taking time out of my busy schedule to attend my daughter's 100-day celebration It should be Mr. Ye Thanks for your hard work It is said that Mrs. Ye also invited the daughter of the richest man. That's Ms. Zhou. But I came here specially to attend our little girl's 100th day party. Really? Ouch Drink more Mr. Zhao Mr. Zhao Leaf Seed Oops You come to make my humble home shine. Mr. Zhao I need to think about any profitable business in the future. Don't be so polite, brother. Make money together We all make money together. Ahahahahaha Madam Ye, you are so lucky. Qingyun Hotel is the most high-end hotel in Asia. Ordinary people only have money. Can't even get through the door Mr. Ye is willing to book this entire floor for his daughter. Just to celebrate the 100th day. But more than half of the bigwigs in the business world are here Mr. Wang standing next to Mr. Ye But the big guys in the financial world That's the one who stamps his feet. Mr. Wang, the man who made the entire financial world tremble That's him Who's that next to him? That person is a real estate tycoon. All the first-tier cities in the country He has his real estate. I invited so many big guys. Mr. Ye really values you, Mrs. Ye. That's because Mrs. Ye is charming Men are willing to hold and coax you Ladies, please stop teasing me. We're not kidding. Madam Ye, look at how hydrated your skin is. Look at this strip She looks like a 20-year-old girl. Protecting the Daughter Zhou Xinran arrived Miss Zhou gave 100 gold bricks I wish Miss Ye good health Miss Zhou presented a pair of jadeite ruyi I wish Miss Ye all the best. Miss Zhou gave 100 South Sea pearls I wish Miss Ye a happy life Miss Zhou gave me a 20 carat ruby Wish Miss Ye a prosperous 100th day Miss Zhou, thank you for taking the time to Attending my daughter's 100th day celebration Where is Mingyue and my niece? Hurry up and bring the child out to me. Uh uh How come this child doesn't look like Mingyue at all? That child is too small He didn't grow up It's like it's grown up Oh, that's not right Mingyue said His little daughter's eyebrows were red This child doesn't have it. That was done with lipstick. It's fake. It's fake. Where is Mingyue? Why didn't he take the baby out himself? Uh oh Mingyue is not feeling well I let him go back and rest first. Oh yeah Let me introduce you This is Liu Sisi Mingyue's sister Isn't Mingyue feeling uncomfortable? I'll let Liu Sisi entertain all the guests on her behalf. Miss Zhu, if you need anything, just tell me. Today's Hundred Days Banquet will surely satisfy you You're welcome. You don't have to entertain me. The moon is not here I'll sit for a while and then leave. No, no, no, Miss Zhou Oh, Miss Zhou Let me introduce you This Ye Tianlong He is Mingyue and I's godson. This is smart since childhood. Won the national science and technology award Was recommended to a key university Won the National Science and Technology Award at such a young age Good boy, your future is limitless. Children are smart from a young age Thank you Ms. Zhou Smart and polite, that's great. Oh, what a pity. This child is just smart and intelligent. This is jealous That recommended admission quota will be cancelled soon. What's going on? There is a boy in school who is jealous of Tianlong Intentionally hurt yourself The scoundrel is Tianlong who beat up his head teacher and Teacher Liu Two words for Tianlong Also fired Too much Is the school owned by their family? It is said that the principal is their relative. Tianlong's admission quota was cancelled I still have to continue studying at school Poor child He can only bear the grievance It's simply lawless Don't worry about this matter. I'll report this to the Education Department. Oh, Miss Zhu I know you mean well. But you see Check this and that In the end, he still delayed Tianlong's child. Son? Yeah, what you said makes sense. Since Tianlong was able to win the National Science and Technology Competition Award Qualified for special recruitment by Beijing University So I write a letter of recommendation Let this child go directly to Beijing University Oh, that's great. Why are you still standing there like an idiot? Hurry up and thank Miss Zhu Thank you Miss Zhu for not being sensible Get a pen I'll write it now Great, Miss Zhu wrote this Mingyue is so happy to accept a smart child like you as her godson. What a blessing Yes, my godmother has always been very good to me. I will respect him well in the future. I'm afraid I don't have such good luck. Put your things away quickly Who is this person? Why are you acting like a hostess? What hostess? Mr. Ye's wife Standing next to Mr. Ye Even though this Miss Shen has always been low-key Rarely seen in public But Mr. Ye wouldn't even admit his own wife's mistake, right? Oh my god, this couldn't be Mr. Ye's mistress. Mingyue, aren't you feeling unwell? Why are you here again? I'm in good health. I'm just afraid that someone doesn't want me to stand here Ladies and gentlemen, this is the daughter of Shen Group. Shen Mingyue Mr. Ye's wife Who is the woman next to Mr. Ye? He is not Mrs. We just called him Mrs. Ye. He also promised Mr. Ye, what's going on? Didn't you just say This Miss Liu Sisi is Mingyue's godsister What the hell, sister? She's my husband's. Wife You must think it through. Besides The company's official seal and Ye Rufeng are both in my hands. What should I do if my uncle fails to rob my second brother? I have to use my second brother to threaten my mommy Yu Zhiyun, you are a beast I don't want to never see Rufeng again in this life. Then you just cooperate. Wife Yue Zhiyuan is confused and illiterate You're just not a person. Wife I don't want this either. But don't push me Mingyue, are you okay? Ha ha Nothing to do with my wife. Have a little chat What Is Mingyue really okay? fine Pretty mom, don't be sad Ling'er will help her mother. A touch of red between eyebrows Mingyue, this is your daughter Ling'er, right? She's so pretty Let me complain This is my daughter. Ye Lin This is Mrs. Ye. A moment later, it was Mrs. Ye again. Now even Miss Ye doesn't know who she is. Yes, Mr. Ye Miss Shen, what on earth is going on? right This Miss Liu Sisi He is indeed a good friend that Mingyue and I invited. Wife Watching with pleasure Ye Zhiyuan I can't move You still can't touch Old Sisi and your illegitimate child Ms. Liu Sisi Are you married? Of course my husband loves me very much Really? Then Miss Liu, is your husband here? Who is Liu Sisi's husband? Please stand up He's not here Look at me confused I should ask first What is the name of Miss Liu Sisi's husband? Ms. Liu Sisi You don't even know your husband's name. You don't remember it. Mr. Ye, you brought Miss Liu here. And when he said he was Mrs. Ye You didn't deny it. This can't really be your mistress, right? Husband, can you explain? Is there some misunderstanding here? You're talking. Tell everyone We are innocent Wife, believe me I have nothing to do with him. I am innocent Good husband I trust you Ms. Liu Sisi My husband said it has nothing to do with you. Why are you pretending to be liquid? Is your husband also called Ye Zhiyuan? Honey, don't joke like that. Is he your husband? No way, this Liu Sisi is Ye Zhiyuan's mistress Is Mr. Ye crazy? Leave Miss Shen alone. I actually like this kind of stuff. This is it Liu Sisi's appearance, temperament, family background, and connections No one can compare to Miss Shen Mr. Ye is not blind How could I choose her as my mistress? Is she your husband? no Not my husband either. Since it is not Then why do you call yourself Ye Tan in front of the guests? You are not Mrs. Your daughter is not Miss Ye either. Why are you holding your daughter? Come and steal my daughter's hundred-day party Ahhhh How dare you steal on such a crucial day as the Hundred Days Banquet? How shameless! I don't know if I don't want It's just vicious. if How dare someone make such a scene at my daughter's 100th day party? I will slap him in the face. Make him kneel down and apologize Let's see if he dares to do it again. Well said How dare you make trouble at my daughter's 100th day party? How could I let it go so easily? yes I know you are Ye Zhiyuan The mistress who hides outside Okay, let's take this opportunity to show our cards. Hum Showdown Do you think my bestie and aunt will let you go? Do you think Do you and your son still have a safe place in Daxia? What are you going to do? Kneel down and apologize Xinran, I forgot to tell you something. I kneel down. Shen Mingyue you bitch Sooner or later, I will leave you with nothing. The whole family died Wait a moment yes It's time to start I was wrong What did you say I can't hear her laughing so happily when she pretended to be Mrs. Ye Now I apologize So quiet This doesn't look sincere. Yunyun, why don't you hand this person over to me? I made him disappear from the sea You bitch His wife is him He forced me He asked me to bring a settlement agreement to his son. You also need a letter of recommendation. He said he said If I don't give it to him He threatened us when Yunkai returned to school By then, Yun Kai will be living a life worse than death. This woman is really ugly and evil How dare you threaten Mr. Ye with your child? Just put him in jail. Wife Why don't we consider that his child is still young? Spare his life Why are you standing there? Apologize to my wife now. Do you want to go to jail? Mrs. Ye, I shouldn't threaten Mr. Ye. I was wrong. I apologize to you Please forgive me I apologize. I apologize. It's ok, I know I'm wrong. But you have to remember Don't step into places that don't belong to you. Don't hold on to things that don't belong to you. Yeah Get up The Hundred Days Banquet only happens once in a lifetime Almost got messed up by an outsider Mingyue, I really feel You shouldn't let him go so easily. Honey, I think today is a happy day. Look, it's Ling'er's 100th day party. Don't mention the unhappy things. Let's grab it. right Let unhappy things pass The Hundred Days Banquet is now officially starting Ye Ju, you really think I'm a fool Good fool, wait for me to take back Shen's words I will slowly deal with you two dogs. Everyone, it is time for the exciting &quot;Zhuazhou&quot; session. Please ask the elders of Xiaofuxing to add gifts Honeymoon this? This is the gift I prepared for Xiao Ling'er I hope she is safe and sound. Worry-free life Thank you Moroccan sapphires are valuable What's more, this sapphire is as big as a pigeon egg. It's simply priceless. The Ye family's daughter is so lucky Bring it up This is the Emperor's Jade Emerald Green Pillow Something that only exists in legends I actually saw it today It's really a blessing. Hey Mr. Ye Where's the gift you prepared for Ling'er? Mr. Ye You didn't prepare a gift for Miss Ye, did you? You didn't prepare a gift for your daughter? How is it possible? Of course I'm ready In the lounge I'll bring it here. Bring it here. What are you looking for? Where is the pearl necklace I gave to Wanyu? Take it out. No, this is Wanyu's. For you, I watched Shen Mingyue kill her. My son's hundred-day party was ruined. You can't give her gift to that Ye Ling'er anymore So many guests are waiting for you. Why are you causing me trouble at this time? Do you regret it? You want to kick us out? Make peace with Shen Mingyang What nerves are you having? What are you doing? Get up from you Ye Zhiyuan, you can't be so heartless What about the necklace? Honey Wife, stop crying This makes me feel distressed You won't feel sorry for me you listen to me Then who knows that Shen Yue is not dead? Look, there are so many respectable people out there. The drama between me and him has to go on. Wait until the banquet is over I will divorce Shen Yue then marry you real you see This is all signed You keep the divorce agreement like this I still have to go back to sing with him. What about things? husband Thanks a lot Okay, okay. Little demon, I will deal with you when I come back. Everyone I got this pearl necklace myself Collected one by one Although this necklace is not a valuable item But it also represents my little love for my daughter. This pearl necklace is in great condition Mr. Ye must have put a lot of thought into collecting so many Mr. Ye is such a good father Ling'er is my only daughter She is also my only precious jewel. It's only right to spend some time on her. Having a husband who loves his daughter so much Madam Ye, you are so lucky. Come on, my little soul Dad will bring it to you No gift for me Just fool me with the gift for the night fish I want backbone I don't want snort Throw well Mingyue Zhenling'er doesn't like it It seems that you are not well prepared. Although we Ling'er are small The vision is very high Come to Ling'er So many good things Which one do you like? I like all good things I want him. Not wanting any of them Yes, all of them Hahaha, Miss Ye is awesome Really smart This is the smartest kid I've ever seen. Come Ling'er Let aunt hug Hug my little Ling'er Yunyue, I like Ling'er more and more. Why don't you give her to our Zhou family as a daughter-in-law? That won't work. Miss Zhou Zhou I don't know which young master of the Zhou family he is. My eldest brother Zhou Chuan's son Aunt Zhou Haoyang Are you calling me? Mingyue, this is my nephew Zhou Haoyang Haoyang, come here quickly Auntie has found a beautiful daughter-in-law for you The son of the richest man's daughter Isn't he the grandson of the richest man? The Ye family's luck is too good to be true Hold a hundred-day banquet. I got a prince as my son-in-law for nothing. This little prince is so handsome. Haoyang, look This is Ling'er sister Pretty or not Is it cute? Do you like it? Yes. A little red on the brow I seem to have seen him in my dream Hey, it's a little brother She's really good looking. Looks a bit familiar Husband and wife worship Zhou Xiang From now on, half of your snacks and toys must be given to me. Okay, give me half of your snacks. We hook We hook and hang No change for 100 years Wife, I really know I was wrong. I swear I will only love you from now on I won't look at any woman again. I swear What about Liu Sisi? And the children she gave birth to I don't love that woman at all But at least she gave me a child. Wife, how about we give her some money? Let them go abroad From now on we are strangers I promise I'll never let her see the baby. OK Of course, it doesn't matter if you don't want to. I don't care about him at all anyway. Get up quickly The ground is so cool Hum stupid woman What about Ye Tianlong? Wife, I have a cloud. besides Don't worry about that brat Rufeng. He went to travel secretly I have found him in the theater. You scared me. I really thought you kidnapped Rufeng Wife I am a person Rufeng is my own son How could I hurt her? When will Rufeng come back? When will I go back? mom Tomorrow morning, take my younger sister and I to Shen's house. Mom and Dad I was wrong Hey Zhiyuan What are you doing? Isn't it just a quarrel between a young couple? You don't have to kneel down. It turns out that Shen Mingyue didn't tell me about my cheating Tell my family That's easy. Mom, it's all my fault You and Dad Mingyue Marry me for so many years Mingyue is so good to me She gave me three children. But what about me? I made her unhappy because of a small thing I really deserve to die. Mingyue, you have been married for more than 20 years. This old couple What's not to say? It's hard to negotiate. How can you always go back to your mother's house for such a small matter? Haoyang, when we grow up, can we marry Ling'er? good Cloud Moon Look, my nephew has agreed. You must not be stingy. Oh, so childish. Children and grandchildren have their own blessings Our elders are not Bright Moon What's wrong Don't refuse so early. You see, these two kids are destined to be together. Why not arrange a baby marriage? Then let's talk about it Aren't you and Miss Zhou also closely related? Yes, Mingyue Look at our nephew. Absolutely the best little boy in the world When he grows up, he can still protect our Ling'er. Oh, it's so popular. what to do This girl who was almost killed by me is a liar I'm so lucky to be watched by a young woman. If I could become a relative of the richest man I can be on par with the richest man The scumbag dad is up to something again Ha ha ha ha Mingyue, do you think I'm joking? No sincerity So we have a new project in the new city area. I can decide Hand it over to Shen What is that new urban area project worth hundreds of billions? nature This is our Zhou family's sincerity to Xiao Ling'er. Glad I'm not oops Mingyue, look at how handsome Master Zhou is. Same as when I was a kid Wife Where did you hide Rufeng? Wife, I know I was wrong. Let's make peace What did you say Wife, we have been married for more than ten years. Plus, we've been in love for more than 20 years. How many 20 years can one have in life? I think we should learn to cherish each other. Right Cherish What to cherish You have all the mistress today And the third child Brought to Ling'er's Hundred Worlds Banquet You still have the nerve to tell me to cherish Wife I just made a mistake Mistakes that all men make Otherwise you scold me You hit me I'm a scumbag I'm a scumbag I'm a scumbag You beat me to death Kill me Wife, I know I was wrong. Whatever As long as you don't leave me My life I want to be with you and the children forever. Never separate again Do you remember this ring? Do you remember this ring? I will never forget it You really know you're wrong mom Just stop interfering here. Mingyue is not wrong That's all my fault. Wife, I know I was wrong. Will you come home with me? Our whole family should be together No one can be left behind real Of course it's true Mom and Dad, I have written this letter of guarantee My wife, from now on I only love you I only have you and the kids in my heart You let me go east I won't go west. I swear if I break my oath I will be struck by lightning Die a bad death The frying bowl is so big Are you really not afraid that God will grant his wish? My sister-in-law He has you in his heart The days you were away He can't eat well Can't sleep either Look, he has lost a lot of weight. Husband, get up quickly I want to go back with you But I feel bad for the kids. You are biased and too nice to outsiders. Not Wife I only love you My wife has 7 million in this card. All for you And the children Just as pocket money The password is the date when I proposed to you Wife, I know I was wrong. Can you please come home with me? Good husband I'll go back with you Wife, you are so nice Okay, the young couple is just having a tantrum. Now that you've made up, go home and live a good life. Thank you, Dad. Mom and Dad, don't worry. let's go Um Mother-in-law, please stay, please stay, hahahaha Mingyue and Ling'er returned to the Ye family's den of tigers and wolves Nothing will happen, right? Don't worry, Mingyue There is Xiao Ling'er. Hong Wen also sent people to keep an eye on it. It'll be fine. Sister-in-law, you must be tired after wearing these high heels for a long time. I'll help you change it. Flowers sent by your wife I'm holding Ling'er. Put it aside good Then I'll pour you some water. Wife, please have some tea Oh my dear granddaughter is so cute Come and give grandma a hug The old witch is heavy I don't want him to hug me Don't hug him Fortunately, mommy reacted quickly I hate bad guys the most. What does this mean, daughter-in-law? Can't I, an old lady, hold my own granddaughter? Mom, children are sensitive Since you don't like him Don't hug him. Honey, I've already told mom He won't have your permission. He can't get close Ling'er, don't be angry You will tease me I speak from the bottom of my heart There is no falsehood. Rufeng will be back tomorrow night It's really like the wind is coming back That was before I sent Rufeng to study abroad. You can't get through to him on the phone That's because the signal at the airport is bad. I just got the news He will be home at 8 o'clock tomorrow night Then I feel relieved. Oh, my wife. Our Ling'er and the richest man's childhood sweetheart Don't even think about it Our Ling'er is still young. I didn't mean that. He doesn't need to talk about the baby kiss But the 100 billion-level project He in Qingcheng District is not to be missed. Don't worry, I've already told Xinran Zhou will contact you tomorrow. Oh my wife You are so nice Wife, you are so nice What did you say Xue Zhiyuan, this scumbag, actually dared to do this to you I think he has had too many good days. I forgot what I was before. Ye Zhiyuan and Liu Sisi Dare to climb up by stepping on the bloody hands of my family I will never let him go. Mingyue, is there anything I can do? You can say it I will definitely help you Oh, Ms. Zhou We finally collaborated Mr. Ye You will be our Zhou's partner from now on. Any help needed? Even though the opening Ms. Zhou, I'll have to ask for your support in the future. Thank you. polite One year later I got this 100 billion project in hand We will definitely be able to drive all the Shen family out of the Shen family. Shen Group soon It will become a more powerful Ye Group husband Wife It's 5 o'clock Let's go to the supermarket and buy some of Rufeng's favorite foods, okay? Such a wife Don't be in a hurry to sit down. That brat Rufeng has been really outrageous lately He doesn't want to go home Why I'm telling you the truth Don't be angry Tell me why Rufeng doesn't want to go home. He said he said What he said He said he hates you I don't want to come back to see you How is it possible? How could Rufeng hate me? Oh my wife He couldn't believe everything the kid said. I think you were too strict in your previous discipline. That's why he's hiding from you. Did I really push him too hard? My wife is not a good student. Don't force him. Mom, don't be fooled. Don't be fooled by his father. Ling'er will definitely help mom find her second brother alright Wife Listen to me Don't be sad. How long will it take for the wind to come back to you? Okay, let's go back. The contract has been signed And the first project payment has arrived Don't worry I'll go back to see Sisi and the child. Ouch ah This is good Oh, son-in-law Yang Our Ye family Not that kind of material family You don't have to make it so grand. I know you're not that materialistic. But this is the sincerity of our Jiang family You must not shirk it. Oh hahahaha Oh, and this 8 million This is the betrothal money I gave to Yuting. ah 8 million Hey, eight million, eight million. My sister-in-law's fiance came to our house to propose marriage. The betrothal gift alone cost eight million. Aunt Yi Ting I've already delivered the stuff. The company has something else Then I'll go first. Sit for a while Hey, hey, hey, walk slowly, walk slowly Why do I feel like I've seen this Jiang Fan somewhere before? I know I know This Jiang Fan's real name is Jiang Chen He had beaten two of his wives to disability. Lost a lot of money No one told him Hahahaha, let me tell you. Yuting, this Jiang Fan It's pretty good Freehanded Li quickly got him the certificate. Don't worry, mom. I will go get the marriage certificate with Jiang Fan later. Good, good, Yuting I heard that Jiang Fan has a bad reputation. Would you like to reconsider? Sister-in-law, you are not because Jiang Fan is so generous Just be jealous of me I know When my elder brother married you, he didn't pay a penny for the bride price. I have good intentions. It's okay if you don't appreciate it Hey, you can't leave You haven't paid for Yuting's dowry yet. I don't need you to go out more Your mother's family only needs 10 million. The Jiang family offered a gift of 8 million We will give a dowry of 10 million Lest you be looked down upon by others Well, you listen carefully to this money. Keep a record I understand. It's good enough. Mother-in-law, you are out Go and find out who is marrying off their daughter. My own mother and brother don't give a penny for the dowry Forced sister-in-law to go back to her parents' home to ask for money for dowry It would be better if you don't tell anyone. that is Sister-in-law, go to bed early. Anything is possible in dreams I will go back to my parents' home during this time. I won't come back to live with you before Yuting gets married. The female supporting role is domestic violence against the male supporting role I wish you long life Mom, chop him up. Baby, I miss you so much What do you want to eat in the evening? I'll let the kitchen do it for you. No need. I just sneaked out to see you. What do you mean? What are you in a hurry for? I'm here to tell you some good news. I have signed a contract with Zhou Group You wait another year When I get the 100 billion contract from Zhou Group I will divorce Shen Mingyue You wait for me for another year. Then I'll marry you right away Wait, wait, wait again I've waited enough Why is that Shen Mingyue He always finds a way to keep you from getting divorced. Hush you're so loud Don't scare the child. Stop making trouble. I can't stay here too long. I'll come visit you and the kids when I have time. besides You should send Tianlong to Kyoto University right away. I'll come see you next time. mom My father refuses to divorce, right? The son blames his mother for being incompetent You really have no ability No match for the bright moon If you gave birth to Ye Ling'er I will also have a prince as my brother-in-law Dad won't want it either. We have nothing now. That Ye Ling'er He shouldn't be alive. I should have been more ruthless. You set fire to the hospital. Let Shen Mingyue and Yin Ling die Now you can let them die. Son, don't do anything stupid. Mom is counting on you. Mom, I want to be a rich man's son If you can't I recognize Shen Mingyue as my mother son Shen Mingyue you bitch It's all because of you That's why I'm having such a miserable time. I will never let you go I want a life as fleeting as the wind ah Like the wind Like the wind Like the wind Like the wind Like the wind Was I having a nightmare just now? Or is it that something really happened to Rufeng? Mingyue, my person has been found. Ye Zhiyuan and Liu Sisi are really not human beings They actually took a 12-year-old child Send it to that place Mommy Ling'er found her second brother The second brother was arrested Dad and the bad woman are hiding at No. 18 Sanquan Road, Dongjiang There are bad guys trying to harm my second brother Mommy, go save my second brother! The leaves are back I can't alarm him Ling Er is good Mommy is going to save you Second brother I'll have someone send you to your grandparents' house to sleep. OK Not good, not good Take me with you I also want to save my second brother But you are a child I can do it. I am small but powerful. I'm awesome Okay, okay, mom will take you with me. Big brother found the wind He was imprisoned at No. 18 Sanquan Road, Dongjiao I'm on my way now I'll bring someone over right away. Don't be impulsive You must wait until I arrive before leaving. good Oh no, the bad guy is going to die slowly 2 brother Drive faster Mommy Ling'er can make bad guys fall asleep for 3 minutes You must find 2 Coco quickly Like waves Like the wind Mommy, find me Time is running out Someone will rescue you soon. Mommy's in the little room inside My second brother is there. Like the wind Like the wind Like the wind Mom is here Like the wind mommy Mommy, I can save you, brother. Brother mom Like the wind, you woke up Rufeng, you woke up, mom Guagua, you were almost bled dry Fortunately, I saved you Where is this kid from? Rufeng didn't have time to explain to you Mom will take you out first. Someone broke in. Chase stop Stop! Stop! The eldest lady of the Shen family personally delivered it to the door The eldest lady of the Shen family came to the door in person You know me Miss Shen, your life is much more valuable than others. How did you decide when you were arrested? The savior is coming are you okay This is a company that operates under the banner of public welfare A black-hearted hospital that specializes in buying and selling human organs We checked for a long time Just found their nest today. I know you are eager to save people But do what you can Thank you Zhou Zhongfan He still remembers me Yeah, the police will be here soon. Don't worry Without him Aunt Xinran wouldn't find out so quickly. Where is my second brother? Thank you Why are you so polite to me? This is what I should do I'll take you and the kids out first. Mom, why aren't we home yet? I was kidnapped Dad must be very anxious. And my grandparents and aunt I want them to know I'm okay. Rufeng, there are some things I don't know how to explain to you. Can you promise mom not to contact dad? Can't I tell my dad that I was rescued? Can't have You can hear your sister's voice Can't you tell anyone about these things? Got it, mom Don't be sad Second Brother Big Brother Big Brother You don't know how scared I was when I was kidnapped. But I remember my brother said Stay calm when in danger If you can't escape for now Stay calm right where you are Waiting for family to rescue Well done, second brother, please get out of the way. Big brother has a surprise for you Brother, can you stand up now? Brother, I'm fine. Ha ha Hello, brother. You are good, bro. I'm going to sleep in your room tonight. I have a lot to tell you. good Big melon I want to go too You're not allowed to go Children should go to bed early Otherwise, you won't grow tall Like you? I'm tall, you're short. Idiots love to deceive themselves Don't call me stupid anymore. Maternal uncle I took my brother and sister to wash up first. Rufeng, you are stupid Your mother will dislike you only if you have bad grades So you should stay away from your mother. Stop making her angry. Ahhh Two melons, two melons The butterfly is deceiving you Still a bad guy Like the wind two melons Wake up younger sister Ah Guang, you are so miserable. You didn't hate reading so much at first It was deliberately ruined by Zhadie. Previous life Zhadie is trying to get the position of Fu Xiaosan's genius son Killed my mother and Da Guo Your hands and feet were broken Thrown onto the street as a beggar Then froze to death I'll have my limbs broken Will freeze to death True or false My silly Erguo still doesn't know Zhang Dad is using the banner of quitting Internet addiction No. deliberately locked him up in a small courtyard Mom can't find Erguo Only then will you be threatened by your scumbag father Dad threatened Mom with me Impossible Otherwise, my second brother is studying abroad well. How did he get taken to such a black-hearted hospital in China? Brother, you were caught and sold. Yes, my father called me back home. As soon as he landed, he was caught What my sister said is true Dad kidnapped me My mother and elder brother will also be killed by him. I will die miserably too. What can I do? How can I save my mother and elder brother? And myself Study hard. No one can save you if you don't have culture Shy Ah Hua Shy Ah Hua I must try my best to protect my mother and sister And Big Brother I am a commoner Working in Nanyang Survive in troubled times Do not seek fame among the princes Brother, I have memorized it. The late emperor died before he could complete his career Three points today Yizhou is exhausted Zi Cheng Zi Cheng In the crisis of life and death, the guards Guard What do guards do? Lu Feng, don't worry. You need to connect the context Understand the meaning It is easy to remember Okay, I remember it, bro. ah Rufeng didn't develop good habits before Just beginning Some can't sit still It will be fine slowly, don't worry Landwind should proceed step by step Let's learn this today. In addition to studying Exercise This will be your advantage. Thanks Big Brother Come on France Hmmmm Thanks Look at the wind. You've made progress again this time. You got 97 points. I'll show it to my mom later. good Brother, you are awesome. Of course Just a little bit worse than me. Sister, you have to remember My second brother is very smart Smarter than you Rufeng, um, don't bully my sister. You are so cute I'll give you my yogurt later. Lufeng, look. Your current grades You can definitely participate in the selection of the Junior Military Academy Junior Military Academy is better I'm afraid I can't Believe in yourself Grandma, you are so timid. Call me sister from now on. I don't want to be your sister anymore Auntie, this little guy is getting heavier now I can hardly hold him. Aunt, I like beautiful aunts Xiao Ling'er, our Ling'er is getting more and more beautiful Right? ah Xinran, what happened? Why do you have so many doctors in your family? They are all famous doctors My dad was scared because of the pain in his chest. I keep saying I can't live any longer. Well-known cardiologists at home and abroad Call them all over I read it all The result is that nothing can be found Is it that serious? I want to make a will I'm going to heaven Listen to the daily shouting Full of energy What disease could he have? He is very healthy. No This uncle is really sick. If you don't get timely treatment, it will be very bad. Oh no, my hands and feet are twitching and I fainted. Xinran, please take me to see your father. Dad, what happened to my dad? Doctor, please save my dad. Mr. Shaofu It is caused by the blockage of Qi and blood due to weak resistance. Just one shot of cardiotonic can cure the disease The horse doctor is really a top doctor. The richest man's illness was discovered so quickly! Mom is the richest man, Grandpa is dying Using a cardiotonic injection now will definitely cause cardiac arrest Died with bleeding from all seven orifices Wait a minute. Xinran this doctor One needle down Uncle Zhou may really be beyond help. Nonsense What qualifications do you, an outsider, have to tell me to do something? Please leave here Otherwise, I won't take action to subdue Mr. Let him go Can you save my dad? of course Um dad You finally woke up how are you feeling Professor Mark is indeed worthy of his name. One shot makes you the richest man There must be improvement Unlike some people who cheat under the banner of saving people Professor Mark Thank you for being our Zhou family's great benefactor. The Zhou family must have a generous gift Trust Miss Zhou Healing diseases and saving lives is the way of a doctor Not worth mentioning He almost ruined the whole thing. Professor Mark You saved my father. I am grateful to you But Mingyue is my best friend and Their family also runs the largest pharmaceutical company in our country. I believe in Mingyue's medical skills Xin Ran, this professor is clumsy Such treatment can only give Uncle Zhou a brief resurgence. Soon there will be blood Miss Joe, I think he is your friend. In a retreat Unexpectedly, this lady went too far. The facts are established You're still telling lies. Simply unforgivable You're just telling lies. I count three If we don't save Grandpa now, it will be too late. 32 Dad, what's wrong with you? Dad, what's wrong with you? Dad, what's wrong with you? Professor Ma, what's going on? I'm afraid the richest man is too ill No longer able to jump back dad I will first input some true energy into the richest grandfather Come on, mom, you're hanging on I still suggest that the powerful one who conquered Anle You get out of the way You reckless woman You are a demon Chuchu stopped This is of no use Only the richest man will die. He can't wake up anymore. You're just making him suffer. A few hours I don't like foreigners The richest uncle definitely doesn't like it even more He has regained consciousness It's just because of the blockage of blood vessels in the brain I can't wake up for now. Good Ling'er, please tell me Grandpa Zhou Shenghui was injured Causes blood accumulation in the ear Poke the ears with onions Just clear the blockage. There's no way to save him. Just shut up Mingyue, can my dad wake up? Xinran, go get someone to get two green onions Onion um Go get the shallots. Hum, you are here to make cakes Still here for cooking Also want onions Do you want the kitchen to send you another pot? A little deeper A little deeper Okay, the other side up up Dad, you finally woke up. Dad, how are you? dad The three guys who wanted to send me away Blast out Good home Let's go, Mr. Winner We saved you. I fainted. Not dead If these three guys want to send me away I heard it clearly. Miss Shen, thank you for saving my life I, Mr. Zhou, owe you a favor what do you need help with You can tell me Wow, he is indeed the grandest man to be the richest man. Mr. Zhou I want to abolish the current official seal of Shen Group Apply for a new official seal You should know Companies like Shen Group I want to apply for a new official seal. You need to apply for a report three years in advance. I know but you are the president of the International Chamber of Commerce As long as you nod I can vouch for it. Get you a new official seal Wait until you get the new official seal What about the relevant departments? The most rigorous investigation team will be sent to the Shen Group Collect all the accounts of Shen's As long as your family is found Have a clean account Your corporate case There's a good chance you'll end up in jail. I'm looking forward to it Don't get involved in the Chamber of Commerce's affairs. Ye Zhiyuan's accounts are too strict It took so long for the person I was looking for to find you Didn't find much useful stuff. Investigations always intervene It was an accidental death. Your husband I will divorce as soon as possible After 3 days of courage The new official seal will be delivered to you Thank you Thank yourself I heard that it was you who proposed the Shen Family 100-day free clinic. Such a good deed I am willing to guarantee Only in this way can we shut up those old-fashioned people in the Chamber of Commerce. Thank you anyway Why Girl, you are stupid What are you looking for him for? Mom, Shen Mingyue is the eldest daughter of the Shen Family Group. She is also best friends with the daughter of the richest man I'll go find him He did it for my brother's sake. It will definitely help me quickly and This Xiaofan who divorced a scumbag dared to hit me I will make him pay the price Good good good Sister-in-law, what? Call the police Sister-in-law, I am Yuting Sister-in-law, I am your mother-in-law Mom, sister-in-law You guys were beaten up. Who beat up my sister-in-law, Jiang Fan? He's not a person at all. He's a pervert. Look, he beat me up like this on the first day of our marriage. Then he wanted to hit me I tried to escape but they locked me in the room If my mother hadn't come to see me I also hit Look Look, ouch. Sister-in-law, please save me I must divorce him. Oh, divorce. Then you can go to court to file for divorce. What do you want me for? I want this Jiang Fan to leave the house with nothing. This might be a bit difficult. You didn't bring any dowry with you. The Jiang family's money has nothing to do with you. Besides, you want a divorce. Jiang Fan may only be able to compensate you for some medical expenses So that's why I came to find you? I tell you You take a dozen people to beat up Jiang Fan Threatened him that if he didn't give the money to Yuting, he would be beaten to death I beat Jiang Fan to death Oh, yes Your daughter got his money. Oh, yes, yes, yes, yes Then I was sentenced Your son got my money I said you two Do you think everyone is stupid? Drive them away If you don't leave Call Jiang Fan Sister-in-law, you are nothing. Shen Mingyue you bitch You must die Shen Mingyue Mom, what should I do? Hahaha Hahahaha I don't want it. I'm going home. Mom, stop. Save my mom I don't listen to mom You are already married A daughter who is married off is like water spilled you do not know That ugly one He's not a boss. He beat us to death He came to the Jade Emperor to beat me ah ah ah I tell you My business still depends on the Jiang family. Don't mess with me. You wait, my plan is successful. By then I I'll help you get revenge. I must take revenge. Brothers, as long as you all support me From now on, Shen Group will be ours. Here is the share transfer agreement 5% per person You are the great contributors to our New Ye Group. hey The bastard is so bold I, Zhou, betrayed my own father. I also want to be loyal to you Mr. Ye, you will be my second parents from now on. The prince is OK Brothers Let's drink to our future kingdom. Sisi, all the assets of Shen's Group belong to me. The project has ended Three days later, after Zhou Group passed the inspection The project funds will be fully transferred to my personal account What if the Shen family is burdened with trillions of debt? Are you satisfied now? Rather than letting them die immediately I would rather see them begging for death. All up to you You little baby Hey, go, go, go, go Mr. Ye, have you cheated on your partner? Is the person you cheated with Miss Liu Sisi? How long have you been cheating? Ye Zhiyuan Get out of the way! Get out of the way! I've been married to you for so many years Giving up my career for you Wash your hands and make soup Taking care of mother-in-law and raising sister-in-law Even to support you Take the position of general manager of Shen Group Not hesitating to turn against parents But you are keeping a mistress outside A son and a daughter Ye Zhiyuan You are a heartless and worse than a beast. Give me back the clouds that open like the wind Still wanting to take my Shen family's property Today, in front of all the reporters, Formal divorce filing Shen Mingyue, do you have good manners? As for him being your husband How can you let him Why did you do it in front of so many people? Dealing with a cheating scumbag And take care of his face. Sister-in-law, I didn't say You are a man of God Women are the earth You should put my brother first. People like you who don't understand your husband No wonder my brother cheated Ye Yuting, you understand your husband very well. Like you Even if your husband beats you to death You don't blame your husband. Oh yeah Maybe you will still feel sorry for your husband Because I hit you and hurt your hand You little bastards Why don't you just die? ah Keep your mouth clean Insult my child again. I will make you live a life worse than death Shen Mingyue you bitch Business is important Sister Mingyue You don't have to be so aggressive. Brother Zhiyuan and I have known each other for a long time. To argue You are the third Okay, shut up. I don't want to talk to you brainless people Shameless people speak I came here today to get the certificate for divorce. Shen Mingyue You are a slut who has given birth to three children. If you get divorced, who will want you? Who else can you marry? Even if it's a divorce It's my son who left you. She's just a slut who gave birth to three useless kids. How dare you be so arrogant? The brain is full of water and the memory is not long I'll throw some out for you. Shen Mingyue Shen Mingyue, you will definitely end up alone No one will collect your body when you die. My Shen family is rich and powerful Some people serve me. You are so afraid that no one will collect your body. so You die now I'll hire 20 people to collect your body. My son, divorce this bitch immediately. Let her get out with her three children. You are never allowed to enter our Ye family again. Shen Mingyue I was thinking about our relationship as husband and wife. Leave a way for children to live I don't think it's necessary now. You keep it for yourself. You don't deserve to leave my child alive. This is a love letter You signed it? From now on You Shen Mingyue and all your children It has nothing to do with me. I hope you won't regret it Shen Mingyue You're a fucking disaster. You'll be penniless in no time. You will end up on the streets And you will Kill all your relatives I tell you Shen Mingyue You will be alone Death of old age Ye Zhiyuan Stop talking nonsense and hurry up This marriage must be taken today I feel sick if I look at you for one more second Mr. Ye, I have a piece of advice for you. God is watching what you do Beware of karma accurate How did you stand up? What's going on? Happy Divorce Thank you, sister-in-law Congratulations Ms. Happy Divorce The children are gone. It's going to be a good day from now on. Mingyue Shen's family will always be your home I know, thank you everyone. Children, let's go home Fuck What are you doing Shen Mingyue, I wonder how long you can be so arrogant. Sisi, this will be your home from now on. Home This is my home Oh, this little Wanyu is so smart He knows this is his home. Wanyu has been smart since she was young. Mom, from now on, Zhiyuan and I Tianlong and Wanyu also honor you together Oh hahaha This is the daughter-in-law. I should be as sensible as you. What music is cheap Nothing Mom, don't mention that unlucky woman. Our family in the future Live a good life Live a good life You guys deserve it Sheng Mingyue, what are you doing here? My son has divorced you. This is not your place. Take your people away You won't regret it, will you? You two are so close because you're both stupid. See clearly My name is on the property deed. No way this is my son's house, little bitch roll Ouch I am your mother-in-law You dare to hit me Money Granny, you I've been thinking about doing this for a long time. Especially you How dare you snatch my child in front of me? Isn't this the Ye family's villa? Liu Sisi I have prepared many surprises for you today. You have one hour to go. Pack up your things Get out of here I won't leave This is my home You go, forget it. We can't go well. Visitors Yeah Let you clean up If you don't listen, I'll have to send someone to help you. And in my heart Where's my jewelry? Shen Mingyue, what are you doing? What jewelry do you have? I bought you all your jewelry. Or you swipe my card. All mine You buy what you buy You gave it to me That's mine. I won't give it to you anyway. I almost forgot about you guys. Ah Shen Mingyue You didn't buy my jewelry. If you dare to rob, be careful, I will sue you for robbery You sue The jewelry you are wearing was stolen from me by Ye Zhiyuan The store has my purchase records. You called the police and had him arrested. How dare you insult me like this? I'll make you regret it soon. How fast is it? Are the police quick to seal your house? What ah Wait, why are you kicking my house? Ye Zhiyuan is suspected of illegally transferring Shen Group's assets Now the law is against him and the fixed assets he purchased with his own money This villa was purchased by Ye Zhiyuan So it needs to be sealed. no So where are we going to live in the future? Hey, what are you doing again? Cars and houses are all fixed assets. All need to be sealed This means we have no chance to survive. I called Zhiyuan Let him figure it out Answering the phone ah It hurts Hey Zhiyuan My car was also seized. Bank accounts are also restricted. You guys figure it out. Just bear with it for 3 days How can we endure it? My bank card has also been frozen. Then we'll be penniless. Oh my god Hello, let me call Yuting. Hello Yuting, we have nowhere to go. I'll stay at your place for a few days. A daughter who is married off is like water spilled How can you and your new sister-in-law live in my house? Then give me some money We're staying at the hotel Mom, where do I have money? You know Jiang Fan. because How could he still give me money for the betrothal gift? I hung up and he saw it and he would beat me again What does mom say? You're useless. I've raised you in vain. He is just trash Your husband Zhiyuan We have no money left. Don't you have so many friends? Let them help. Yes, husband. Anyway, we will have money in 3 days. Just return it to them when the time comes. What do you know? I will be the CEO of a 100 billion group in the future. How can I let them see my miserable state? Do I still want to save my face? It would be better if you didn't lose face tomorrow. Three days at most We can get through if we hide here for three days. My son Look at us, old and young. Wearing torn pants Air leakage on four sides Mom is old. I can't stand it anymore Yes, husband. The baby is still so young We can't let him live outdoors with us. That's enough. I've decided. You can bear it or not. Tell me something else Mom, don't send me off. Just go to Beijing to submit experimental results I'll be back soon. ah My eldest brother is here There is a liar in Beijing who is going to be a daredevil. Brother, I will go with you to protect you. You've grown up. Big brother is not here You have to stay at home with your mother and sister. They need your protection too. I will definitely protect my mother and sister. I know Jiaojiao and I are practicing. I want to go to military school in the future. Don't tell my secrets. Rufeng Military Academy is very good Big brother supports you Mom supports you too You are all good kids. Do whatever you want to do. Mom supports you. Mom is like the wind Ling Er, I'm going Have a safe journey Um Come back soon, bro. Big Brother is coming back Marry Him Sisi I fell in love with you from the first sight Although I have nothing now But I will love you forever marry me marry him marry him marry him marry him I do marry him marry him marry him Marry Him marry him marry him Didn't Ye Zhengyuan say he wouldn't kill me? How come your words don't count? The more you know, the faster you die. Hey, it's a bit impressive. Heheha Hey Beautiful mother is back Mom, Uncle Zhou came to teach me boxing He is very good I am not Xinran asked me to come and see you and the children. Zhou Fan, you saved me and the kids last time. I haven't thanked you properly yet. You don't have to be so polite. Welcome to my home good We grew up together Although we haven't seen each other for more than ten years But I can't recognize you. Uncle Zhang blushed. It seems to be cooked Mother Can I learn Kung Fu from Uncle Zhou? I also want to be as good as him. That would be too much trouble for Uncle Zhou. No trouble. No trouble at all. I have plenty of time Rufeng is a good seedling I would love to teach him Okay Okay Of course, there is also our little Ling'er Xiao Ling'er is the smartest Why Thank you for your hard work. I remember you loved eating lion's head I'll go to the kitchen to cook a few more dishes. A little thanks. Hey Mingyue You take a break. I'll cook. I learned a lot of specialties in the army. Today I'll show you my hand Uncle, I want to eat chicken wings. Guangguang likes to eat fish Mom likes to eat prawns knew Uncle Zhou also said that the White Star aunt came to see us It was obviously his own idea. Why did Uncle Zhou lie? Because he likes his mother Want to be our dad True or false It's more real than real gold Uncle Zhou's parents gave me a gift Don't talk nonsense I'm going to the kitchen to help your Uncle Zhou Wangcai Wangcai Wangcai, it's time to eat. Why don't you come over, Wangcai? Miss Ye, you can't eat this meal. Ling'er, you can't eat this meal. It tastes good, so I'll eat it. I want to finish eating all Mine, don't eat it. You are not allowed to eat That's mine Ling'er can't go there What if I get hurt? He scolded me What did Wangcai scold you for? He called me a little thing without all the teeth and scolded me Can you understand Wangcai scolding you? Did you hear wrong? Without him, I would be scolded. Hey, this is our future daughter-in-law's daughter Why How pretty the girl is. Um good At such a young age You can understand what dogs say The future Must be unlimited I'm telling you Our Zhuofan likes Mingyue Mingyue may not like our child. We have to coax a little This little one Walk Wangcai squats well You are Ling'er baby, right? We are Uncle Zhou Zhuofan's mom and dad. You can call me grandma. You can call me Grandpa Zhou Children should not recognize grandparents randomly. Not a random recognition We want to get your uncle Zhou Zhuofan Give it to your mother Become a live-in son-in-law Look, this is a gift from your grandma. This is the gift from Grandpa Zhou. Lucky come over Apologize to Ling'er This is good Ling Er Baby Your uncle Zhou's cooking skills The pork trotter rice he made is especially good. It's much more delicious than that bowl. If you want Let him come and try it Later You can eat pig's trotter rice whenever you want Start a family The pork trotter rice made by the stinky uncle is the most delicious in the world The greedy girl Mom, Uncle Zhou is very good If mom likes We can let Uncle Zhou be our father. You two have a lot of little things to worry about. Try uncle's cooking and eat it while it's hot Here's a big shrimp. Ling'er, can you give me some tripe? Let me get you a bowl of soup. This soup is good for your health Everyone Look at the way our groom looks at our bride How affectionate The way our bride looks at our groom It's very tender This is a couple of lovers Let us all wish them well together, okay? good I come first Sister Shen, today is my and Zhiyuan's wedding Are you really here to bless us? you are right I just want to bless you two dogs. Forever If it wasn't for you who obstructed Shen Mingyue We wouldn't have waited so many years to get married. If you still have face Kneel down and kowtow to apologize Then get out of Haicheng Ye Zhiyuan told too many lies Even I believe it Ladies and Gentlemen, I, Shen Mingyue, was in college. From the first day I met Ye Zhiyuan I have been supporting him. You support Ye Zhiyuan Mr. Ye is a gigolo. Mr. Ye's family background was indeed very poor. Shen Mingyue, what nonsense are you talking about? The security guard dragged this woman out. I not only support Ye Zhiyuan He also supports the bride Liu Sisi It can be said that Ye Zhiyuan and Liu Sisi are childhood sweethearts Eat well and drink well Live in a big villa It's all me, Shen Mingyue, who pays for them. Sister Shen, I know Zhiyuan chose me in the end. abandoned you you feel sad That's why I'm desperate Come and ruin our wedding It's okay. I won't be mad at you. calm Don't be fooled by him. Shen Mingyue You are just a rude and ignorant young lady from a rich family. then If you hadn't sacrificed my mother's and my sister's lives Threatening me, how could I break up with Sisi and marry you? Miss Shen so many years You hit and scold me, my mother-in-law, I was kicked out of my house when it rained heavily I've endured it She doesn't love you. Then we have no choice Today you have to raise your hands Let our family go. I'll tell you. From today Stop insulting and abusing my mother. turn out to be It was really Miss Shen who used her power to force me Ye Jia Wow The daughter of the Sai Shen family actually likes to beat her mother-in-law A bit exaggerated Ha ha ha ha Oh, good, good Nie Zhiyuan You and your mother And your mistress is really good at acting. If you don't do short plays with your acting skills, you're losing your talent. Sister Shen, you couldn't have been dumped by Zhiyuan Is there something wrong with your brain due to some kind of stimulation? I can prove this woman She has mental problems You should be in a mental hospital. Look at what kind of man this person is. Too outrageous Ye Zhiyuan Don't accuse others of being mentally ill just because you can't say it. What's more, one of you is a cheating gigolo. One is a mistress I believe that any sane person I won't believe what you say. No matter what Today is a big day for both of you. I brought a gift to the ceremony. Missy Why Waiting for you Honey, you look so beautiful in this wedding dress. Ah, put me down Slow down, this wedding dress is very expensive We can't afford it What's there to be afraid of? It's all Shen Mingyue's card anyway. I'll get the certificate from him tomorrow morning. I'll get you a deputy card this afternoon. Dangdang The same neighborhood Same apartment type It's also Shen Mingyue's money. Start Today This home is ours. Thank you, husband Yeah hahahaha It's not over yet What How is this possible? The seal is not in my hand. How could there be a problem with the official seal information? No, you are not from Haisheng Bank. You are a liar Ha ha ha ha This is the group seal. The 100 billion is still in my hands Yours is invalid. The one in my hand is the new seal of Shen Group Zhou's 100 billion has nothing to do with you anymore Mr. Ye and Ms. Shen Mingyue submitted a new application Application is valid 100 billion project funds transferred to Shen Group's public account Transfer completed Goodbye My 100 billion is gone. son Now insert one Breaking News News from Kyoto University An 18-year-old Haicheng boy named Ye Creating a device that can treat cancer Once the instrument is launched It was bought out by the state for 10 billion Haicheng An 18-year-old boy named Ye Isn't that my grandson Ye Tianlong? Kyoto University hahaha Tianlong, you are worthy of being my precious son You saved our whole family. Shen Mingyue, what use are you going to have with that 100 billion? Pay the supplier How much do you have left I tell you With the support of Mr. Zhao, Mr. Qian and Mr. Sun The Shen Group is still in my hands, Ye Zhiyuan. As long as I want I can get Shen out at any time. Mr. Ye, Lin Gongjin is so young. Can actually conquer the cancer problem This may be loaded into the west side 10 billion national bonus Mr. Ye's son will have a bright future. Shenshi is the pharmaceutical group Joined by Mr. Ye's genius son Shen's will definitely reach a new level. Mr. Ye I represent the board of directors I beg you to become the new chairman of the group Wait until I become the chairman You are my elders. Hahaha Shen Mingyue, you and Sisi are both you But the child you gave birth to But not as smart as Sisi's child The best thing I've ever done in my life I want to divorce you. And the child I gave birth to signed a love letter Cut it off What's the use of getting a new seal? Shen Group is still in my hands Come on, prepare the fireworks. Upgrade all dishes I want the most expensive I, Ye Zhiyuan, am going to turn things around Congratulations to Ye Yunkai from Haicheng Successfully developed a device to treat cancer Let us all witness this glorious moment together How could this be Ye Yunkai? Isn't he a useless cripple? It's impossible to be wrong Congratulations to you, Mr. Ye. Both sons are geniuses. It doesn't matter to you which son wins the prize. It's a good thing Hey, you forgot that Mr. Ye signed the Qingshu Ye Yunkai is no longer his son This matter how so Why not Tianlong? Investigation shows that Haicheng's Ye Tianlong bullied his classmates for many years The evidence of stealing other people's scientific research results is true Kyoto University expelled Ye Tianlong has been taken away by the police What what ah Ye Tianlong's scientific research results were stolen Do you know I have no idea Zhiyuan Tianlong, he must have been framed You must believe him. You're a liar One son is a genius A son in jail Mr. Ye, you are good at raising your son. The genius was kicked out of the house The one in jail is treated like a treasure What a joke You dare to lie to me Hit him hard Blame me for hitting him Go to hell I'll go and see He turned his back on me. Mingyue Wife Yunkai is my biological son after all. Please forgive me You can come in now. This is the review team. Why are the review team here? Hey, this is a big deal today Oh, really Get here Ye Zhiyuan Didn't expect that? I'm alive Comrades from the Procuratorate This person is Zheng Kang He has a grudge against me. He will definitely accuse me Mr. Ye, based on the clues provided by Zheng Kang We found a golden silk warehouse There are 300 million yuan in it Suspected of illegal gains Do you know this small vault? Not mine Mr. Ye, you lied. I now have sufficient evidence to prove You are the owner of the gold treasury Everything inside is illegally obtained. Huge amount You are now under arrest according to law. Liu Sisi has been running a shady place Destroyed other people's lives You are now under arrest according to law. I'm the chairman. Let go of my son 44 Mr. Zhao Mr. Qian Mr. Sun, you also need to come together None of my business None of my business Mr. Ye Your card cannot be used You haven't settled the hotel bill for us yet. Go fast Mr. Ye's mother is here Ahhh Trouble is hard to solve Just solve the trouble maker Shen's will be clean from now on Your son is not here Please check out I I have no money I have no money Mount Everest has grown taller real Finally made it through Come here Please invite the bride and groom to enter Newcomers are coming! This Li Cheng, congratulations on your marriage. Become a loving family Let's take a photo with the bride and groom. Come on, everyone. Come take photos Come and take pictures Come here Come on, everyone, look here. Happy wedding to the bride and groom Bring it up Why What's in this snakeskin bag? It's loaded here These are all Ye Zhiyuan and Liu Sisi's bills All the money I spent was for moon watching. Bills Ye Zhiyuan Liu Sisi I want you to come back Ouch, this is too much. What this this these What is it? What is it? WTF Lamborghini Mr. Ye, you are such a good mistress What is yours? Look at my wild couple's room Seven Days and Seven Nights This is outrageous. Imperial Green Jadeite Mr. Ye, you really don't spend your own money. I feel bad. It's not uncommon for men to be raised What's strange is that you, Mr. Ye, still dare to keep a mistress. Dare to dump the sponsor and let the mistress take over Fake. This is all fake. Don't look at it Ha ha ha ha My son is capable Shen Mingyuan is willing to spend money on my son It shows that my son is excellent My son Mr. Ye, don't hide it. Can't hide it anymore Besides the bill, isn't there also the previous video? Yeah, it's really unlucky. Giving gifts to cheating men and mistresses What's going on? Today's wedding It's so lively Shen Mingyue, don't be arrogant I tell you the truth A 100 billion project in cooperation with Zhou It's already in my personal hands. Group's management Half the people are standing at my feet I have people with money There is also an official seal As long as I want You can turn Shen's into a night market at any time Yeah But I heard that Zhou's project funds are not with you. One minute left This is the loan time I agreed with Zhou. Hum, act in my hands By then I can transfer money to my private account instantly snort It's the bank's phone number. Everyone, listen up. That's the sound of 100 billion. Dear Mr. Ye Haicheng Bank apologizes to you Because the seal information you submitted does not match Refuse to pay you What