- Hello, lovely students, and welcome back to English with Lucy. Today is an incredibly important lesson. We are finally going to work A1, A2, B1, B2, or even It's so important to know and understand your level of English, because it helps you decide how to proceed with your learning journey. In this lesson, we are going to go through at each level so you can However, if you want to I have created a really in This will more accurately If you would like to just click on the link Quickly, let's just revisit what the CEFR levels actually are. This is the Common European It divides English into six levels. We have A1 and A2, the beginner levels, with A1 considered absolute beginner. We have B1 and B2, the and then C1 and C2, the advanced levels. C2 is a near native level of language. All right, let's get We'll start with the beginner questions and work our way up to I'll give you a few seconds before revealing the correct answer and make sure you share your results in the comments section down below. Okay, A1, question one. She to read books every day. It should be b, likes. She likes to read books every day. Number two, I have two and one brother. Which answer is correct? It should be d, sisters. I have two sisters and one brother. And number three. I can't see very well. Have you seen my, what should it be? It should be c, glasses. Okay, if you pass those three questions, it's likely you have an A1 level, but let's test for A2. One, my mum is than my dad. It should be b, taller. My mum is taller than my dad. If you study, you the test. What should it be? It should be a, will pass. If you study, you will pass the test. And number three, which of I'll give you a bit of extra time here. It should be c, they want to go with us. Did you get everything right? If so, it's likely you have an A2 level. If you want to know for sure, I recommend taking my The link is in the description box. Let's move on to the intermediate levels. Firstly, B1, number one, Which one's correct? It should be b, will be arriving. Jarrod will be arriving Let's try number two. Which question was most likely I have never been to Paris. Here are the options. Which question was it? It should be d, have you ever been to Paris? And three, report this sentence correctly. I have to work tomorrow. Which one should it be? It should be d. He said he had to work the following day. Did you get all of those right? If so, it's likely that If you want to know with more confidence, take the level test. The link is in the description. Okay, let's try B2. Upper intermediate, this is where it starts Number one, he have said that to you, but at least he apologised. Which should it be? It should be b, shouldn't. He shouldn't have said that to you, but at least he apologised. Two, choose the relative It should be b, who moved to And number three, choose the correct It's a, if you had learned the lyrics, you would be singing in the choir. Did you get all of them right? If so, it's likely you have if you want to know for sure, you can take the more in depth test. The link's in the description. Okay, it's time we move The C levels. We'll start with C1. Number one, after nine years of marriage, we decided to get a What should it be? It should be b, on good terms, Number two, we have developed several new for market research to Which should it be? It should be a, criteria and analyses. We have developed several new criteria to streamline our ongoing analyses. And number three, which the passive perfect infinitive correctly? It should be d. Alejandro should have been Did you get all of them right? If so, it's likely that you As always, if you want to then take the free level test. The link is in the description. Let's move on to our final, highest level, proficiency level, C2. Number one, his lack of and general unhappy with the extreme composure Which should it be? It should be c, charisma, charisma. Extra points for correct Number two, which idiom could of this sentence? It's b, to go back on his word, to go back on his word And number three, the department that this matter as quickly as possible. It should be would be dealt Did you get all of those correct? If so, it's likely that or you are a native speaker, lots of native speakers would not be able to achieve this level, As I've been saying throughout, if you want to have a better, more accurate understanding don't forget to take It's free to take, it's completely online. Just click on the link below. Also, don't forget to share your level in the comments section down below. That's it for today's lesson. I hope you enjoyed it. I hope you learned something. I hope you learnt what Don't forget to connect with and you can check out all If you're working towards a B1 level, we have an amazing B1 course. You can also get on the I will see you soon for another lesson. (gentle music)