The name Amstrad means different things to For some it means this. Others this, but for most of us, it invariably The Amstrad CPC is an iconic computer from Released in 1984, it was somewhat of a late-comer but despite the odds managed to become the in the UK and dominated in other parts of It's often seen as an also-ran to the Commodore into the story you begin to see that actually, Alan Michael Sugar was born in 1947 and spent into a room with his siblings and bearing London. Although his mother recounted times when Alan's was reportedly a reserved child, but clearly In his teenage years it didn't take long for Working at the electrical wholesaler R. Henson samples to retailers and strike a deal. This quickly enabled Sugar to develop a large the capital, but the Hensons management left Despite instigating some lucrative ideas for grateful for Sugar's work. One of the rounds involved collecting goods didn't take long for him to realise he could working for Hensons. Thanks to the friendship he'd established 1966 with Binatone and handed over a 7 day He then promptly sold these goods the same cash the very same night, tearing up the cheque. At the age of 19 and armed with an unreliable of Amstrad. Sugar initially kept his stock in a shed in he had bought with his recent wife, Ann Simons. However after PS1,500 of merchandise was stolen a base for many a small business and workshop business under the name of A.M.S. Trading (General Importers), the A.M.S. representing Alan Michael Sugar. At this stage the business was very much a take Sugar long to realise that putting his only gain credibility, but also create an This brand name, more out of luck from the would be Amstrad - an amalgamation of A.M.S. and memorable name. The first products to possess this brand were intercoms, and the branding involved a simple 1968 would also be the year which another a stir in the audio hobbyist community by audio amplifiers and it didn't take Sugar electronic market. Over the next few years Sugar built up an and the best places to sell them, whilst also shipments of faulty goods, gaining extra income and it wasn't long that he would open his own retail business on the side. Along with friend Ashley Morris, the pair audio equipment, much like the ones Sugar But Sugar was a man with fingers in many pies, he sold his share to Morris so he could concentrate Amstrad product. In a strategy that would become his main playing a lot of money on dust covers for turntables This was by moving to injection moulding, norm, and soon shifted the cheaper alternatives beginning. Like Sinclair this move into audio would follow for hi-fi, although with a more value orientated was offering. Sugar wasn't one to sit in one place for long, which usually went completely at odds with launched their first consumer electrical product pushing sales to over PS200,000 and allowing on Fleet Street. This was in 1970 and Sugar would later go rubbish I've ever seen in my life&quot; and a number the same advantage of completely undercutting Sugar was making products for what he would By 1972 Amstrad's sales had almost doubled on Ridley Road, operating as a large scale But Sugar realised that he could make further manufacturers in Japan, rather than using Several Eastern bound trips allowed Sugar manufacturing), where products are fully assembled the Amstrad name. This led to several new Amstrad products, than paying for the equipment and shipping days. This new sub-contract operation, later formed L&amp;N, allowing Sugar more control over the Something he was quite concerned with, much which was often echoed in magazine reviews. By 1980, the company had bought premises in Sales were up to PS8.76 million Sugar had snapped up some 30% of the car radio market Companies found him easy to deal with, being the chairman, sales director, financial chief, into one representative, although expansion team to cope with increased pressure. Amdstrad's technology also looked good and The only two things which Sugar essentially The company had also gone public, providing opportunities available. It was his next card trick which really solidified Over in Japan audio companies had begun to However Sugar would take this idea, improve All of these things would emerge by combining unit, made to look like separate pieces; something Sugar's attention to aesthetics ensured the lights, fake switches and anything else that units, an image that Sugar would term &quot;a mug's The towers were beautifully simple compared Simply plug it in and you were away, instead out the back. Woolworths snapped up the TS-40 Tower Hi-Fi, existing stockist, Comet. It would be the first product to sell in the Priced at PS199, this left some PS130 for of revenue. The hi-fi buffs weren't enamored by the kit, made for them. Legalisation of CB radios in the UK allowed to pounce as they were, along with lines of imported and manufactured in house as well But Amstrad wasn't a company to sit in a marketplace margins. If he felt that a line was in danger from would be cut without hesitation. With Japanese competition mounting, Amstrad in 1984. But, after all, a new line of electronics The Personal Computer. To be fair, Amstrad were already making waves They had just released several high speed &quot;You can make a copy of your favourite cassette&quot;. Something which would stir the music industry cases against Amstrad, with Amstrad finally emerging tape based home computers to quietly friends, instigating the dark, dark world By now, Amstrad's turnover was some PS85 million in Alan Sugar receiving Guardian young businessman At the end of 1983 he announced that &quot;new would be in true Amstrad fashion, one step competition&quot;. ============ Time to build a Computer ============ By now the UK home micro scene was in full the turn of the decade, the Sinclair ZX Spectrum just over a year, the BBC Micro for two years Commmodore 64 strolling onto our shores. But the arrival of the home micro hadn't gone to wait until the market was just about right Back in 1982, Sugar had realised that the Far bigger than what they were making in hi-fi, like Sinclair, Acorn, Commodore, Oric, Dragon for business. Sugar and Bob Watkins, Amstrad's technical who had previously worked with Amstrad to the work needed to produce a computer, they somewhat. This was compounded when the software designer demonstrated as seriously behind schedule. In this time, the outer casing for the machine Sugar's headstrong image for the machine had and technical components would have to be So armed with this case, Bob Watkins had taken International. Another company who had worked for Amstrad an electrical component mail order catalogue, as calculators and other electronic kits. His question to Roland was whether they could A tall order, but after speaking to his MD, they could not turn down. Amstrad wanted the system completed fast. Within 5 months fast. So Poel and Perry's task was to oversee the to get the job done. Their first meeting, with the original designers so far been completed by the hardware designers display a few characters on screen. Impressive for a 14 year old. Less impressive in the eyes of Amstrad. Perry quickly sought a new team of engineers the world then, Cambridge and set about finishing system and BASIC interpreter. Microsoft BASIC, the most common go-to was it would be more cost effective to write their Richard Clayton was apparently the man to from his back room, and although highly impressed a little miffed by the state of the hardware. The current system was using a 6502 processor of familiarity with this chip, Clayton estimated interpreter up and running. He suggested calling up his friend Mark-Eric Their suggestion was to scrap the current processor. Clayton's exposure to this chip meant he could Acorn in a much shorter time frame and MEJ It was also around this time, under a shroud the nickname Arnold. Perry had given the system a temporary badge most people assuming that it was General Electric It wasn't until later that Roland Perry realised own name. The secrecy didn't last long however as MEJ Alan Sugar to finalise terms and plan out Chris Hall was the only member of Locomotive MEJ, William Poel and Bob Watkins. The engineers had assumed that Bob Watkins That is, until Sugar arrived late, and everyone Sugar then laid out his vision. Whilst other manufacturers were fiddling about the new Amstrad machine would have &quot;perceived Just like the hifis, having a &quot;mug's eyeful&quot; The pre-designed CPC case with it's wide footprint, tech finish were designed to do just that. A machine that looked like a real computer vision. Something that the lorry driver and his wife deal. Incorporating a tape deck (straight from their was also core to this premise. Not only did this make the machine look the something incredibly simple to plug in and Just like the all in one hi-fi, there would to the monitor, and a single plug, with the itself. Sugar had dabbled with the existing micros to setup. His ability to see things as the average working with the likes of Sinclair or Acorn Computers. The bundled monitor would also eliminate the during the computer's operation, meaning it periods of time. All the engineers needed to do was make it The specifications Amstrad provided were pretty to have colour, sound and 64k of memory to competition and to do it &quot;as cheaply as is Here was a team, given a few months to design Something that would usually take 5 times But the engineers were actually pretty excited One of their early strokes of genius was to and reduce cost, much like the Sinclair machines. In fact, the final CPC technical specs, were machine, and although price was key, it even As well as being able to display up to 16 other resolution modes allowing a CGA style All without the colour clash attribute found The system also sported basic 4 pixel hardware team's design and pride in their work. The Z80 CPU ran at roughly 3.3MHz to to prevent memory, whilst the memory could effectively Sound emits from an on board speaker and is sound chip, providing three channels and 7 A vast improvement over the Speccy's on board 128k+ would accrue some 2 years later. Given the bundled 14&quot; monitor, there was no from an RGB connector resulting in what would of the time. But there was a DB9 port for a joystick - allowing bus, printer bus, power switch, internal speaker Sugar wanted what was at it's heart, a games He understood this is where the money lay. But the machine needed business appeal, and here, on both fronts. With Bob Watkins happy with the design, Locomotive in an incredibly narrow space of time, taking The initial prototypes were ready by November The first thing Sugar requested was that the arrows. Most interpreters at the time didn't allow the machine to respond immediately to the keys, providing a reassuring response, regardless The hastily built prototypes were then shipped the country, along with some Amstrad televisions An operation was then put into motion to convince for the system in time for it's launch. If a deal couldn't be struck with a particular and take it to another software house, until developers, ready to create launch titles Amstrad knew that the software line up was They had witnessed Sinclair's market success, lacked a suitable array of games. It's for this reason that several Ambit employees, under the name of Amsoft and put to task creating along with setting up a user's club to duplicate Commodore 64 had naturally evolved. The current CPC prototypes didn't yet have simulated using an array of separate chips the ULA was initially riddled with problems. Ferranti, the company tasked with creating that worked, so Sugar decided to get another as well, keen to ensure that the machines Both companies soon enough created working out to Orion for manufacture, in Japan. It was Orion themselves, who had vast experience using the high contrast yellow on blue colour With the changes made, the OS was completed week of January 1984 to be laid into silicon It was only when the firmware was mid-flight in one of the BASIC operations. The DEC$ function required two opening brackets But given that its only use was to return variable, it was a non essential operation, the Japanese as they were with Amstrad decided request Orion to change it. This was more of an egotistical point with the Japanese. Apart from this tiny hiccup, Roland Perry software. Not only was a decent machine, operating system also didn't cause Sugar much concern in the Like a lot of people neither MEJ or Locomotive a saturated market, and so during negotiations, machines sold, both companies opted for a As Locomotive wanted to retain the intellectual first two years, and PS15,000 per year afterwards. Amstrad had no problems agreeing to these to go. ======== A Baby Amstrad Arrives ========= The Amstrad CPC464 was unveiled in April 1984, into Ambit's offices. The opening ceremony was orchestrated by Michael press, hiring the hall at Westminster School names of Archimedes, Einstein, Monet and Shakespeare The press were impressed and it was quickly Alan Sugar has intended. At PS229 with a green monochrome monitor, equaling, if not exceeding Commodore 64 specifications price a standalone C64 system was currently Users who purchased the green monitor version purchase of a MP-1 or MP-2 devices incorporating machines up to a standard television. Whilst over in Japan Amstrad had also located cheap. The 3.5&quot; format was beginning to take over, launch Sugar asked his engineers to create push the business aspect of the technology. This was quickly done, conforming to the Hitachi tied up with Digital Research to port the the 3&quot; disks, an OS that was losing it's battle Amstrad agreed to pay for a large number of Sugar was in his belief that the CPC would To this end there was also a package including could fall straight onto the desks of business, Given the sturdiness of the 3&quot; discs, they as well. Guy Kewney of Personal Computer World wrote with plenty of memory, easy to program, and outsell the Acorn Electron, and give the Commodore money. I expect some 200,000 systems to be sold by It's not hard to see why. From the moment you setup the CPC, it's blissfully You can plonk the monitor town using the built itself which extrude from the front, so you and you're good to go. Even after turning the machine on, everything The image is crystal clear, thanks to the The keyboard feels responsive, including the where ever you feel, and also, handy touches There's no need to mess around with a cassette sure the volume level is correct. Everything just feels like it's going to work Whereas, using a Spectrum can feel like an There's always a slight fear that something This fear itself is something Amsoft played failure rate by announcing a game called &quot;This looked incredibly similar to Clive Sinclair source code was lost and the game never surfaced. The modest hour queue which formed when the by today's standards, but back then, it was 60 people waited an hour for the Rumbelows the Thursday 21st June 1984. Wake me up before you go go by Wham was riding go-going. Within an hour 100 CPCs had been sold. Soon machines were available in many high connections. To further lure the crowds, Amsoft and other for the initial bundle to ship with a whopping over PS100. This included Roland in the Caves and Roland Other games included Oh Mummy, Harrier attack applications like Easi-Amsword. This really was the complete package, and radiated a feel of quality and professionalism, The all in one solution also lowered returns. Many of Sinclair's products were returned to tune them in or work them. Whereas the CPC was as simple as moving the flicking a switch. However, only caring about numbers, the city still skeptical of another new machine entering Sinclair had by now sold well over 1 million was waiting in warehouses, having missed the Something you'll note almost every other micro from Amstrad that is, Bill Poel was even quoted Trafalgar Square if its late&quot;. Amstrad's shares endured a rocky patch in some starting to realise that Christmas 1983 Now, it was reckoned, &quot;everyone who wanted But this was Sugar's strength. Identifying an unfulfilled area of the market whilst using economies of scale and outsourced Ultimately his strength was having conviction