Professor Dave here, let's graph some trig We've just spent some time learning about how they relate to one another, and the unit Just like any other function, we will want interesting things that we can point out about First, let's talk about the domain and range Looking back at the unit circle, we know that sine theta. So looking first at sine theta, the domain we could plug into this function, and the values for sine theta. This means that the domain of sine theta is It could be greater than two pi radians, we as we approach infinity. And we could also have negative angles, we But the range of the function is negative Sine theta can only have values within this circle, as the Y values of all of these points The same goes for cosine theta, we could plug of these points, they always fall between So both sine and cosine will have a domain one to one. Tangent is different, because that's sin to zero, in either direction, the function So the range of tangent theta will be all The domain is almost all real numbers, but zero, because anything over zero is undefined. Cosine is zero at half pi and three halves real numbers except half pi plus or minus The other thing we want to understand about Their values repeat, over and over again, The period of these functions is two pi radians, to where we started and all the values repeat. In other words, the sin of X plus two pi is The same goes for cosine. Let's go ahead and graph the sine and cosine they look like. Let's bring up the coordinate plane, and Looking at the Y coordinates of these points, sine X, going in multiples of pi over six. When X is zero, Y is zero. When X is pi over six, Y is one half. When X is pi over three, Y is root three over When X is half pi, Y is one. Then as we move through quadrant two of the down, until we get to X equals pi, where Y Now as we enter quadrant three, we start to and thus negative values for sine X. These will be the same values as the first to negative one. And then moving through the fourth quadrant, So there is the graph of Y equals sine X for Once we get to two pi radians, it's the period of the function, all of the values That's what makes this a periodic function. If we graph multiple periods of the function, its cyclical nature. How can we manipulate this function? Well, we can apply any of the transformations If we put a coefficient here, that will stretch the amplitude of the function. Y equals two sine X will look the same, except cycling between two and negative two. If the coefficient is negative, it reflects like this. In this way, for any function in the form to the absolute value of A. If instead, there be a horizontal stretch, as Y equals sine rise and fall at twice the normal rate. This would mean that the period of this function any function in the form of Y equals A sine can have vertical or horizontal shifts. If we have a term that is being added to the like we saw with parabolas. Y equals sin X plus one will just shift everything If instead we have some number inside the X plus half pi, this whole thing will shift As it happens, we have just generated the This will make sense if we refer to the unit is one. That means the function must start up here. Then the cosine decreases until we get to one at pi. Then it's back to zero at three-halves pi, things repeat. So the graphs for sine and cosine are extremely all of the transformations we used for sine Let's use what we've just learned to graph X minus two thirds pi. First let's find the amplitude. We can get that from this number here, which negative four and four. Then, let's find the period. That will be two pi over this term, so the Then we find the phase shift. This term would mean that the whole thing the origin, but we have to divide that by to contract, so that leaves us with pi over So the period will start at one third pi, and then down to negative four, before coming We can find the X coordinates of these key period up into four parts. That gives us a quarter pi, and we just add pi, to get all the X coordinates. To do that, we need a common denominator, and reduce, using the rules we already learned Before we move on from this subject, let's trig functions so that we know what they look Tangent looks quite a bit different, because like for sine and cosine. Instead, this function approaches positive zero, and when cosine is zero, tangent is asymptotes. Here is the graph for Y equals tangent X. It has a period of pi, because tangent values both positive, come back again in quadrant Likewise, tangent values in quadrant two, in quadrant four, where it's negative over This function can be transformed in all the Cotangent will be similar, but as it is the falling to the right instead of rising, and originally generated asymptotes will now generate zero, and the points that originally had Y as one over zero is undefined. Cosecant and secant will also look a little cosine equal zero will now be asymptotes for one over zero is undefined. The transformations for all these graphs are over this already, let's check comprehension.