Every once in a while, a comes along. That changes Today, Apple is going to And here it is. First introduced to the iPhone has become one of successful products of The early results are in, iPhone launch a success. Some estimates suggest many as 400,000 units This is it. This is the been waiting for. Nearly two decades. And 42 models later, the the hands of billions of meaning of a phone. The iPhone from 2007 to a has sold about 2.2 There was immediately a big deal. All of the other main killed or kind of This is the story of the the world. Apple was founded in 1976 Wozniak. Today, it's a the world's most valuable But it started with Before the iPhone, Apple experience where bills Jobs was ousted by Apple struggle between himself In July of 1997, he looking to save it from Steve Jobs had to return, things he did when he got cut lots of stuff. One of the first products the company's failed device. Apple had also been burned until the iPod, they anything to do with It was basically a Mac Jobs returned in 1997, related to revamping the He did manage to turn It was basically had been dying company, and he and AirPort, an early Various things, but no that point. In 1998, introducing the Apple's business at that in revenue per year, and iMac came out, the It grew at 33%. By 2001, though, the about a $5 billion In the same year that Apple attempted to introducing the iPod, a player. The iPod was the first consumer electronics, and successful, but very much The majority of growth 2007 was almost entirely This was really the where Apple had the eyes of investors as computer company. Before Apple entered the cell phone outside of Silicon There was i-mode in Japan, web. In 1999, there was BlackBerry in Canada, Palm here in Silicon So basically mobile by something that was Silicon Valley story. During the early 2000, one selling phones was the the Finnish company had mobile phone. But then in Steve Jobs shocked the groundbreaking These are not three This is one device. And we are calling it Steve Jobs, when he is an internet threw it out. These are It's not just an iPod In a 2007 interview with goal was to take 1% of It exclusively partnered order to achieve this iPhone for $499. However, industry remain skeptical. Why in the world would jump into the handset With so much competition players. We use all the handsets it frustrating. It's It's a category that that And we think what we've the phone and completely expectations are going to in your pocket. Steve Ballmer, who at the Microsoft, was one of the skepticism that it would Steve Ballmer pooh poohed know, it's not going to It doesn't have a want a keyboard. Other companies, though, made a very combative make any difference. Investors were optimistic could, the impact that it And when it was released initial data that came disappointment from that and I remember talking to weekend, and the general product, in one &quot;dead on arrival.&quot; Apple sold 1.4 million of those sales coming in For perspective, in the million mobile phones in Nokia was seen as the late 90s early 2000. They shipped a lot of The investing community something that is going difficult market for Although the iPhone sales, one feature was trajectory forever. For the first year, you There were no apps, there There were staffers at hard for the App Store. And then that became the iPhone. And that was just That started the rocket The 2008 launch of the App the demise of dominant whose products didn't integrations. It also modern tech companies and competitors. Uber didn't exist before. Facebook predates the pivoted really hard. Mark no, that's a future. We have to have the best The App Store allowed your more. What the manufacturers missed is That was the piece that phone manufacturers In the years following the In 2011, the iPhone 4S milestone. Over 50 for the first time in a was selling over 200 yearly. The App Store was a huge basically followed that I don't think there's any the standard that really followed since then. A decade after the App a historic $1 trillion first publicly traded U.S company to do so. Today, there are nearly users, and the iPhone with 53% of the market In 2019, Apple stopped sales, but it's estimated iPhone units have been After 15 generations of $3 trillion company, what The whole smartphone real question. I mean, we every year. The consumer because it's the way the But there is no clear n . For the first time, Apple smartphone leader, market share, but Samsung previously held the spot There is a period from where Apple needed to was going to do with share was actually call it 20%, but what at is building the I can't imagine a for example, can build a going to disrupt the And I'm always nervous at what people said about that the email client was this case, Apple's taking lives, it's hard to competition is going to Samsung is still Apple's continuously innovating like foldables. But Apple's high selling the most profitable For an American deciding Almost always, it's Apple The one thing Apple has lately is services, and Samsung can't easily have the same kind of We want to be an industry We're really just focused very best products for need to do to enable Apple is also dabbling in A.I. Is going to be it's going to be a iPhones. And today, Apple to make the products work photos, with helping potentially doing things But for the most part is capture the full Far from it when it comes The things in iOS 17 today to lift the subject from autocorrect, or voice for those at risk These are incredibly intelligent capabilities, the device again can help privacy. The way that people use be very different than it Imagine having this assistant, even though we that from Apple, I to be an important use case for the iPhone