The Lord be with you. He is in our midst. Proclamation of the Gospel of Jesus Christ according to Saint Luke Glory to You, Lord. Lifting his eyes, he saw Jesus, the rich putting their offerings into the temple treasury. He also saw a poor widow throw in two small coins. And he said: verily, verily, I say unto you, this poor widow, She put in more than the others. For all those threw in their offerings to God what was left over. This one, however, revealed her indigence. Word of salvation. Glory to You, Lord. Dear children, today's text talks about offering. What is offering? You heard that Jesus didn't say alms. He said offer. Is there a difference? There is, in context, there is. Be careful with words out of context. These days, let me share with you that I witnessed something very bad. A sentence that was said in context. It was taken and was used in a circumstance where she seemed extremely aggressive. Funny, here I am sharing an experience of mine. That word hurt me a lot, until I reached out to the person and shared it. I said: look, I felt offended by this sentence. Then the person said: Father, it's not like that and told me the context. In context, the sentence was not negative. Out of context, it was offensive. So be careful! Even in the interpretation of the Bible or even in a relationship, you know? When someone comes to tell you something, they come and gossip. Look at this! Filter, contextualize. Well, I don't even know why I went that way, but it's important to share. Today Jesus speaks of an offering that is different from alms, alms is surplus. What did Jesus notice about the widow she offered? Did you offer what you had, while others gave what was left? So, dear son, dear daughter, the Word of God questions me and questions you. Have you made your life an offering? Have you been offering your best to the world, to the Kingdom of God, to God himself? Have you been offering your best at the wedding? Have you been offering your best as a father? Father, and you? No! It's worth it to me! Father, have you offered your best, to the people, to the Church? Offer Love to the brothers. This is an offer. Offer. Love. There's no grudge. AND! This is an offer. Offer the best. Everything supports. It's a total gift. Dear children, let's go to the blessing. The Lord be with you. He is in our midst. Bless, Lord, the water and the clothes of the sick. And thank you, Lord, for today's word of offering, offertory. In the name of the Father, the Son and the Holy Spirit. Amen. Pray with me the prayer that the Lord himself taught us. In the name of the Father and the Son and the Holy Spirit, amen. Our Father who art in heaven. Hallowed be Your name. Your kingdom come, your will be done, on earth as it is in heaven. Give us this day our daily bread. Forgive us in our trespasses. Just as we forgive those who have offended us. And lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil. Amen. Hail Mary, full of grace, the Lord is with you. Blessed are You among women and blessed is the fruit of Your womb, Jesus. Holy Mary, Mother of God, pray for us sinners. Now and at the hour of our death. Amen. Hail Mary, full of grace, the Lord is with you. Blessed are You among women and blessed is the fruit of Your womb, Jesus. Holy Mary, Mother of God, pray for us sinners. Now and at the hour of our death. Amen. Hail Mary, full of grace, the Lord is with you. Blessed are You among women and blessed is the fruit of Your womb, Jesus. Holy Mary, Mother of God, pray for us sinners. Now and at the hour of our death. Amen. Glory to the Father, the Son and the Holy Spirit, as it was in the beginning, now and always, Amen. And may God's blessing, through the merits of the Holy Wounds, fall upon you, in the name of the Father, the Son and the Holy Spirit, Amen. Did you like this video? So subscribe to the channel and send it to your friend or family member who needs spiritual advice. Evangelizing is necessary.