Translator: L. Lam How many of us have ever been watching the news, and a story comes on, and then we start &quot;Is this data and information correct?&quot; Or how many of us have ever been in a check-out stand, and for those that don't know it's printed word, not on social media - but how many times and said, &quot;Nah, that can't be real?&quot; Or third, turning to social media, how many of us and we see these viral stories that make us think or worry, and then we find out that it's a hoax? The world we live in today is producing so much How do we decipher through it all? And not only decipher through it all: how do we take it to make Now what if I told you that there is legitimately that everyone can learn - and not just learn, but get good at - that will empower us and then to make a data-informed decision? Sound too good to be true? I promise it's not. It is real, and it is And this skill is data literacy. Now before I jump in I want to set this foundation for us more so we understand the era with technology and information. Now the time period in which we live has been called Now what in the world It means a digital world, and I think all of us can agree In fact, it is very hard-pressed to find people who don't have a computer To help paint this picture even better, I'm going to go through just to show you how connected we are and how much information The first example: Did you know that nowadays you need a refrigerator (Laughter) And not just has a touchscreen, but it can play a YouTube video for you, These things exist, Now, in full disclosure, (Laughter) Second: Did you know that connects to your Internet? Because I can't think of anything I have ever wanted more than to know when my (Laughter) Did you know you need that? Third: Did you know that it is becoming way too difficult to turn a knob to turn your shower on? (Laughter) That now you can download an app that can turn the water on set it to the exact temperature Not only that, but you can have a touchscreen and that mixture (Laughter) Did you know you need that? The reality is, And not just connected: Data and information. Now data has been called the new oil, but I think we need to take to understand it better. Data is this valuable asset, but just like oil, it has to go through people This is data literacy. Now by definition, data literacy is the ability to read, work with, analyze, and argue with data - four skills that reside across a spectrum. Notice what I did not say: data literacy is not data science. Not everyone in this world but everyone needs to be to be able to succeed So let's dive through these four skills to help us understand them better. And to do that, we are going to imagine that we all are buying a refrigerator. Now the principles apply not only in a personal life; they apply in the public sector, they apply in business, The first characteristic Now imagine that we are going to a store, and we are looking and we have no clue which one So the first step is we are going to read the information and if you were to Google it means to look at something So when we walk into the store hopefully some without a touchscreen, we can read the information and comprehend it Reading data is one that can free up our minds If you think back hundreds of years, did you know it could be a criminal act to be able to read? In no way am I saying it will be but just like it did hundreds of years ago the ability to read it So back to our refrigerators. We move along and we get to the second This is the ability to work with data. Now one might ask themselves, &quot;Does this mean I have to get good to work with data?&quot; The answer is no. It means being comfortable when it is presented to you. If we think of those viral stories that go around we become relieved Working and reading with data allows us to determine it's a hoax So when we're buying these refrigerators and each refrigerator we're comfortable taking that to move along to the third characteristic and that means to analyze data. Now what analyzing data does I often say we want to move beyond In reality, when a story most of the time, we are making an observation In the case of a refrigerator, we walk into a store, see 30 refrigerators and maybe five of them we made an observation. We then need to analyze the information so that we can take it in and find the insight Analyzing also means being That's not something with social media in our day and age. We should be questioning everything. The fourth piece of the pie is arguing with data. Now, a little side note, I am not encouraging you as you try and pick your refrigerator. Arguing with data means two things. One: interrogate the information Ask a lot of questions of the salesperson, interrogate what they're giving you. The second side of arguing is this ability to put a position forward So put yourself in my shoes. Let's say, my wife and I are remodeling We agree on absolutely everything. No. (Laughter) We each have our position, and then we argue it to arrive at the best refrigerator for us. Four characteristics: reading, working with, empower us as individuals to make sense and then to make decisions with it. Now I am asked very often, &quot;How do I start? What do I do?&quot; &quot;Do I need to back to school &quot;Do I need to learn how to code?&quot; Now I understand greatly, Not everyone wants to read I promise you I do. So what do you do to start? I've coined a phrase that I use The first C is I want you I have five children. Guess how many questions (Laughter) And here's the kicker: I watch their brains working through to come to answers that I could Because for some reason, when we become adults, Become curious and ask That is the start The second C of data literacy is Creativity. There is a lot of hype on what is AI, artificial intelligence, going to do to the future. We're already in the Fourth We are already living in a digital world, and I'm here to tell you the most powerful it's in our minds. The human element should never be It is a combination of those machines combined with the human element. And remember: those four characteristics But the second C of Creativity to something that might seem but data and information have power. Now overall, this world that we're in society, in business, as we improve ourselves in reading, working with, analyzing, If you want to have a foolproof way and in this digital world become data literate. Thank you. (Applause)