The man known to history as the Emperor Nero 15th of December 37 AD at the imperial villa Nero's father, Gnaeus Domitius Ahenobarbus, prominent Ahenobarbi clan. Originally of the Plebian class, the family Augustus and had produced many consuls, the Republic. Gnaeus Domitius held the consulship in 32 later after a fire tore through the Aventine appointed him to serve on a commission set property to the blaze. In the closing months of Tiberius' reign incest with his sister Domitia Lepida and in proceedings brought about by the Praetorian and the smooth succession of Caligula, Domitius Nero's mother, Agrippina the younger, was mother also of the emperor Caligula. As such Agrippina the younger was also the Augustus. Agrippina's father was the prominent Roman Julian and Claudian clans, and so Agrippina She was born on the 6th of November 15 AD during one of her father's germanic campaigns. In 28 AD, when the Emperor Tiberius returned today's island of Capri, he arranged for Ahenobarbus. Their first and only child, Nero would be death in 37 AD. Nero's birth was accompanied by mixed omens. The delivery was traumatic for Agrippina as Contemporary philosopher Pliny the elder noted such a way who had ever made a success of a close friend to Augustus. But as Nero was finally delivered it is said first time he was touched by the rays of the Yet despite this positive omen, his horoscope predicted that Nero would rule but would kill kill me, only let him rule". from his mother in 39 AD after she was implicated A number of leading men were executed in the and her sister Livilla were sent into exile, of Pontia where her older brother had served Initially Nero stayed with his father, but with dropsy for a time from which he died Nero was sent to live with his aunt Domitia but despite her affections for the young boy, to Caligula. When imposing exile on his sisters, Caligula with that, when Nero's father died he also Nero stayed with his aunt for only a short was assassinated. Claudius became emperor the following day from exile, restoring their property to them. Following her return from exile, Agrippina him appropriate tutors, placed under the supervision Anicetus, and began the search for a new husband, general Galba. However, Galba resisted her advances and instead Passienus Crispus, who at the time was married the elder. Unlike Galba, Passienus, already distinguished to the daughter of distinguished general Germanicus AD. Holding the proconsulship of Asia in 42-43 AD, Passienus' success continued but he to Agrippina. Some of the ancient sources claim that Agrippina heir but whether there is any truth to the The year of Passienus' death also marked of Rome, and accordingly Claudius held centennial Both Claudius' son Britannicus and Nero Lusus Troiae equestrian event, but of the It has been suggested that this adulation It clearly had a negative effect on Claudius' had sent assassins to kill the infant Nero he would wear in a golden bracelet. Messalina had played her part alongside her as rivals to his somewhat shaky claim to power, in his reign. After returning to exile late in 41 AD she that during the years since her return from order to avoid attracting Messalina's attention, have gone largely unrecorded. Instead, Agrippina seemed to have worked in while subtly building up Nero. The adulation for Nero garnered a hostile her attention was elsewhere as she was engaged Silius. It was her later supposed bigamous marriage death and the end of the threat to Agrippina Whether Agrippina truly had designs on Claudius the death of Messalina, she emerged as the among those put forward by his freedmen. Already in 48 AD she had had a hand in Claudius' Lucius Junius Silanus dissolved with the aim own marriage would come first. Engaging the assistance of Vitellius, the the issue of their marriage was brought before Unions between uncle and niece were considered But Vitellius extolled the union, and the the apparent joy of the people and senate the crowds in the Forum and supposedly they 49 AD. The betrothal of Nero and Claudia Octavia Seneca from exile. This was seen as a reversal of fortune for on the probable trumped up charge of adultery Nero was formally adopted by his now step-father still only thirteen years old, he took the of that year. But this wasn't the only honour bestowed In the same month he was designated to hold as being granted proconsular imperium, or the title of princeps iuventutis, or 'first At the same time as promoting the advancement natural son Britannicus and began systematically that had surrounded the young man, as well of Praetorian prefect to a single position Nero's assumption of the toga virilis marked year he made his first appearance in the senate, In 52 AD when Claudius was ill, Nero once the recovery of the ageing emperor and promising Then in 53 AD he appeared before the senate in Greek, on behalf of towns and cities throughout disasters that had befallen them, as well freedom returned which Claudius had stripped When Claudius left the city to attend the Prefect of the City. But 53 AD also saw the culmination of Agrippina's Claudius's daughter. As Nero by this time had been adopted by Claudius, necessary for his daughter to be adopted into otherwise have been considered incestuous. But after the formalities of adoption were games that Nero had promised for Claudius in the sky. Early in the year charges of practising magic against Domitia Lepida, possibly engineered after Nero himself gave evidence against her. But hers was not the only prominent death announced that the emperor Claudius had died. The exact nature of his death is unknown but by Agrippina using poisoned mushrooms, or although this cannot be conclusively proven. The lead up to the announcement of Claudius' Nero's position. The Praetorian Prefect Burrus had already the guard, and following the announcement, of the palace where he was greeted by the escorted to their camp at the Viminal gate. In the camp, Nero gave a speech to the soldiers, taking the name Nero Claudius Caesar Augustus for each man of the guard, matching the sum Nero was then escorted to the senate where proconsular imperium, although as with his of pater patriae, or Father of the nation, It was likely at this time that Seneca received the princeps, while the freedmen Beryllus of Secretary for Greek correspondence and It was expected that Claudius's will would and while a lot of conjecture has been put It's unknown whether Britannicus had in Claudius' funeral was an elaborate affair after his death to allow for a period of lying and the funeral pyre. Nero gave the eulogy, the speech itself written was declared. On the 19th of October, the day after the that Claudius be deified, which they granted, his cult and temple construction were made. Following the deification, Nero didn't hesitate God. Agrippina was granted honours from the senate, and made a priestess for Claudius' newly on imperial coinage both alone and in tandem She is purported to have been left to deal beginning of Nero's reign. Her son even went so far as to have senate listen in on the proceedings, but she still rivals. Although we cannot be completely certain that ascension, Marcus Junius Silanus, governor Junius Silanus was killed while at dinner, and freedman Helius though no one was held By the end of the year, Claudius' loyal In his first years as emperor, Nero swiftly power with the Senate and ending closed-door his own interests and largely left ruling Seneca, the prefect Burrus and also his mother In 55 AD however Agrippina's face was taken Seneca had encouraged Nero's independence her to turn against him and promote her stepson She also protested against Nero's affair Although Nero had openly praised Claudius to distance himself from his adoptive father, quaestor designates, public officials, should the Cincian law so that advocates received the ten thousand sesterces set by Claudius. Agrippina was aggrieved by these actions but He also began to emphasize links to his natural that a statue be granted to him and having each year. As a further sign of tension between Nero with a former slave Claudia Acte and threatened While he didn't get that far, he did live dismay. Supposedly, Nero was assisted in initially the prefect Serenus to pretend to be the woman's While this may have worked in public Agrippina from doling out abusive comments to the woman. But to further add to her anger, the former dismissed from his post by Nero. In that same year, Nero's adopted brother Sources suggest that Nero had engaged the emperor had become suspicious of Brittannicus, had supplied the toxin to dispatch Claudius. Echoing Claudius' final hours, the poison a dinner party and when it took effect Nero one of his epileptic seizures and would recover, died and was hastily cremated the following The murder was supposedly prompted by Agrippina's son when their relationship began to deteriorate, can be conclusively proven. Despite ancient accounts agreeing on murder, as it is known that Britannicus did indeed he did in fact die as a result of his condition to shore up her position, finding an ally other wealthy and influential individuals, having earlier lost Burrus' support when But Nero realised what she was doing and sought with an allotment of free grain. Nero went further still by banishing his mother salutation, or formal greeting was too disruptive, house on the Palatine. Then in an effort to further isolate her from culminated in Agrippina losing access to the palace. The reforms however were made in such a way targeting his mother, instead simply as making for military purposes. As well as the praetorians Nero also saw to bodyguards assigned to her shortly after his Perhaps seizing the opportunity of Agrippina's settle, the ex-wife of Gaius Silius, Junia joined forces against her. Nero was still on good terms with his aunt Paris, who supposedly presented charges to targeting Agrippina and Rubellius Plautus, Nero panicked and ordered the immediate execution charges against Agrippina could be proven, Interrogated the following day by Burrus, freedmen as witnesses, Agrippina argued her concluded the matter by dismissing the charges While showing clemency to his mother, Nero against her, and Junia Silana was exiled while Away from the family turmoil and day-to-day at this time may have been designated to his continued to indulge his love for the arts Continuing with his daily lessons on the cithara, learning poetry. While he was a great fan of the chariot racing, forcing himself to watch the combatants as At nights he would go out into the streets trouble among his friends. Although perhaps harmless at first, these and when the senator Julius Montanus apologized the attacks he was shamed to suicide. While another, Faustus Sulla, received the him of trying to ambush him on another one 56 AD saw a new piece of legislation come freedmen. It proposed that a law should be passed giving freedmen, which met with much support, however voting. Nero, most likely guided by his advisors, played roles throughout society their rights individual case should be assessed on its Nero held his second consulship in 57 AD and an amphitheatre in the Campus Martius. The stone-built foundations were faced with of wood and shaded with a sky blue awning Construction projects were not his only target his support using his wealth, he made a gift In the following year, when he held his third in the harbours about the indirect taxes collected the emperor. Initially Nero suggested abolishing all indirect he was dissuaded from this action and instead and the urban praetor of Rome that all cases priority. In another show of generosity Nero also improved the minimum wealth requirement for membership gift, thereby satisfying the requirements. Perhaps in part, because of his generosity him the consulship for life which he declined. It was in the same year that the notorious relating to his activities as a prosecutor string of prosecutions that prompted Gaius Cincian law, which banned defendants paying Rufus argued his position in front of Nero, the orders of the late emperor, but Nero found and so Rufus changed tack, arguing that the But this claim, while it wasn't challenged But of all the events in 58 AD, likely the with Poppaea Sabina, a noblewoman married Some sources suggest her marriage to a man until such time as Nero could divorce Claudia Whatever the truth of the matter, Otho was in present day Portugal and Spain, where he leaving Nero free to continue his affair with Nero's mother Agrippina strongly opposed in Roman society. Angered by his mother's intransigence, and him, he ordered his mother to be killed. Nero employed the services of the freedman fleet who also had a dislike for Agrippina. Supposedly the first plan Anicetus devised of Agrippina's room which would loosen the her while she slept, however it seems the It was then that the idea of the trick boat on board, however it should be noted that is possible that there was some confusion murder. The act was planned to take place during the resort of Baiae, and to this end, feigning to join him, which she accepted, travelling On the night that Agrippina dined with Nero the banquet was concluded walked her down Agrippina is said to have casually reclined weighted canopy above them collapsed, killing However, the crucial section failed to work. Even so, Agrippina and Acerronia ended up for help, claiming to be Agrippina, she was Here the sources differ, in one account Agrippina another she swam to some fishing boats who to her villa at Bauli, where feigning ignorance the terrible accident. Nero was horrified to discover she had survived men to her villa to kill her. Agrippina is said to have died looking her Before the fatal blow, she was said to have to strike the womb that had borne Nero. Officially described as a traitor she was and buried in an unmarked grave at the age The incident damaged Nero's popularity which Supposedly haunted by his deed, Nero moved written by Seneca in which he outlined his power to herself and subvert the loyalty of her for the scandals of Claudius' reign, life following the accident on the ship. Far from condemning Nero it seems that the their gratitude at her undoing, including Minerva to celebrate the foiling of Agrippina's Nero returned to Rome in June to scenes reminiscent where sacrifices were made to the triad, Jupiter, symbolizing a victory over Rome's enemies. There seemed little ill feeling in Rome for graffiti and a farce performed by Datus, were Those that had been exiled during Agrippina's and the ashes of Lollia Paulina, the wife to Italy and buried in a newly constructed was now able to indulge his passions. He began spending extravagantly and giving and encouraged members of the upper classes regarded as unseemly. The Gaianum, built by Caligula on the far chariots away from public view. It has been suggested that this concession him away from openly pursuing his other interests, However, it soon became known what Nero was young emperor. Perhaps buoyed by this apparent support Nero to mark the shaving of his first beard, for in gardens across the Tiber. Entrance to the games, which followed the where his shorn hair was gathered into a golden by invitation only, so Nero could be assured song, poetry and the lyre. But Nero was not the only one to perform, nobility, men and women alike, also took to The same year, a group of equestrians was known as the Augustiani, who would praise him. It may also be around the time of the Juvenalia dedicated to the eternity of the empire, took It was at this event that tokens were thrown a number of prizes including jewels, slaves, 60 AD, the year in which Nero held his fourth games, Greek in style, when the inaugural on those founded by Augustus in Greece after The festivities included recitations and music keeping with Greek tradition, were performed Although Nero didn't perform in the games prizes for Latin poetry and rhetoric, only the lyre, instead placing it at the foot of to the first emperor. Following the success of the games, construction gymnasium began. But all was not well with Nero and purportedly death, a comet appeared in the sky. It's been suggested that Nero may also have the question of the succession. Such was the speculation that Nero felt obliged estates in Asia Minor, seeing him as a rival Rome saw both victories and defeats in the General Corbulo was successful in conquering the installation of the pro-Roman Tigranes But in Britain there was a very different In the previous year the king of the Iceni, died, naming Nero as co-heir along with his However, in claiming the kingdom for the emperor procurator, Catus Decianus, in plundering tribe did not go down well with the widowed But her efforts were futile and resulted in raped. Outraged by the conduct of the Romans, the tribe to the south, who had their own grievances With the governor Paulinus engaged against a special force which had been sent against the town and removing the head of a statue From Camulodunum they marched on to Londinium putting many citizens to the sword. But in their fervour, the tribes wasted the Paulinus who had returned ahead of the bulk with the men marching down from Anglesey. Despite less in number, Paulinus now had the army. Unable to bring their numbers to bear against the Roman shields, losing the advantage of putting them in range for the Roman short work. The tribal warriors fell in droves until their by a line of wagons they'd drawn up behind against the legionaries. Following the defeat, Boudicca took poison and the legionaries subsequently took retribution had been involved in the rebellion, causing The freedman Polyclitus was sent to assess was replaced as governor. Archaeological evidence can be found in all forces however, although the site of the final identified. In 62 AD, the way was now clear for Nero to always been staunchly opposed to the idea Nero rapidly pressed the case that Claudio heir. However, as she had supplied the link to Augustus also given her personal popularity, the imperial of two figures who could be seen as rivals. Faustus Sulla, who was married to Claudia Plautus, who were both already in exile, were portraying them as agitators. In less than two weeks Nero concluded his Demonstrations soon arose however when Claudia To quell the growing unrest Nero once again him to confess to adultery with Claudia Octavia, For his services he received a comfortable Claudia Octavia, on the other hand, was transferred few days later, her veins being opened to Having not produced an heir with Claudia Octavia, Claudia in January 63 AD at the imperial villa The senate lavished honours upon both Poppaea for both of them, and a great many of the received into Claudia's presence. However, the happiness wasn't to last, when Nero's outpouring of grief was only matched Following Claudia's death she was deified Nero and Poppaea. This same year the gymnasium was said to have fire, burning so hot that a bronze statue in the previous year. By 64 AD, as the influence of Tigellinus and among the nobles of Rome, but this didn't leap to make his debut artistic performance However, he chose not to perform in Rome, of Naples, as he believed that those of Greek It may have been due to his plans to perform to five thousand individuals. Demand to see his performance was huge and was held in an open-air arena rather than to see the emperor perform. Nero appeared for several days on end before although it is said that Nero continued his to leave it unfinished. Only later that day after the performers and collapse, Nero, unlike some, took this as to the gods that no life was lost. Following his performance in Naples, Nero at Beneventum, where he was presented with Silanus Torquatus, brother to the deceased Nero had arranged for Torquatus to face charges departure for Naples. Upon receiving the news Nero lamented that in advance of condemnation he would have been Nero now changed his mind about the trip to It has been suggested that growing suspicions suicide may have played a part. It was on his return to Rome when he first east, in particular Egypt, and when he reached wouldn't keep him away for long and everything absence. Seeking to find the most favourable time for the smallest of the hills of Rome, to venerate attention to Jupiter and Apollo. All seemed to be in his favour until he descended a seizure which he interpreted as a poor omen promptly cancelled the trip. Publicly, Nero gave the excuse for the cancellation beloved people and instigated lavish celebrations purportedly culminating in an orgy organised as the bride to freedman Pythagoras, which excess. The overindulgence of the imperial court was 64 AD, a fire started in the Campus Martius surrounding it. It wasn't long before the blaze, driven Hill, engulfing everything in its path, soon The emperor, however, wasn't in residence made aware of the fire in the early hours convey the news. Nero reacted immediately, riding for Rome. Rome had had a fire brigade since 21 BC, and about organising their efforts. To help the population he opened up the buildings gardens, providing a safe space for the survivors wounds. Nero threw himself into the fire-fighting had finally brought the situation under control. Exhausted, those who had fought the fire sought area of Tigellinus' property, raging for Of the fourteen districts of Rome, only four cent of the city destroyed. Popular legend claims Nero fiddled while Rome weep copiously and recite poetry at the disaster, likely have been one similar to a lyre. In the aftermath of the fire, despite Nero's slash prices to provide the populace with Tigellinus were blamed for the blaze. In the days that followed, Nero went about a number of reforms to regulations in an attempt when he took for himself a huge parcel of 100 acre Domus Aurea or Golden House, would At the same time as planning for his new palace, Rome with much needed grain, a canal was planned but the work was later abandoned. Although it is unknown who instigated it, burgeoning sect of Christians, who refused ire of the gods down on the city. The number of Christians killed is unknown such as wearing garments soaked in pitch, by dogs or crucified. But there was another serious outcome of the In 62 AD, shortly after his withdrawal, Seneca Piso, in accusations laid against him by the Seneca successfully rebutted the accusations forward. Piso however, nursed serious resentments against friend, and in the aftermath of the fire, liberties in his proposed rebuilding of the other disenchanted senators to his cause. Piso attempted to recruit Seneca but was initially to the emperor. Seneca was purported to have only become involved as the poet Lucan, joined the plot. At the same time a small number of officers prefect, Faenius Rufus, were also talking The two groups met, but what discussions they to act without the support of the other. But the decision was taken out of the hands the lover of Lucan's father Annaeus Mela, captain of the Misenum fleet, Volusius Proculus, Epicharus was held in custody as Nero was be said once she passed into the hands of The initial plan of Piso murdering Nero as out of fear that another would supplant him from the city. The conspirators finally settled on the festival with Piso thereafter to be taken to the praetorian Emperor. But the plot was betrayed by one of the conspirators. Nero didn't hesitate in ordering the execution not resist, committing suicide when the praetorians But when it came to Seneca there seems to part even after he was joined by Poppaea and Seneca's death, and instead of ordering Silvanus, who was among the conspirators, But by the time Silvanus returned to Nero evolved and when Lucan's part in the conspiracy with a warrant for either his arrest or suicide. Despite the tribune's delay in seeking the warrant, he did go to Seneca in order to keep secret. On receiving the warrant Seneca is supposed mother and brother. Now he has nothing worse left to do than kill Seneca's involvement in the plot is attested view his involvement as unlikely. Of the approximately forty conspirators, at while others were pardoned or exiled. Rufus was beheaded and replaced in his position For his part in revealing the conspiracy the and the title of saviour. One of those who died was Epicharus, who committed to. Now Nero turned on those who sought to vote and had his agents actively search out possible In the years that followed both friends of face death. Among the victims, would be Claudia Antonia, was denounced and sentenced to death for a Nero's offer of marriage. To add to Nero's woes, 65 AD also saw the It has long been said that in a fit of rage after she chastised him for returning late There is nothing to suggest this is more than The likely true cause of her death is natural, and began haemorrhaging and couldn't be Rejecting traditional Roman rite of cremation, in the style of Egyptian royal women and delivered Nero married for the third time in 66 AD to Vestinus Atticus, who had been forced to commit In the same year Nero finally embarked on Making his feelings towards the senate clear, to manage affairs in his absence with assistance The thinned ranks of senators did not oppose took their leave of the city in September. Sometime after Nero's arrival in Greece, in 67 AD and the general duly accepted his But instead of being welcomed by the emperor for his connection to Vinicianus. Corbulo didn't resist and ended his life. Shortly after, the commanders of the Rhine who may have been in correspondence with Corbulo, suicide. Before leaving Rome Nero had sent word ahead in all of their festivals and so the timetable He spent his time travelling around the country awarded in the region of eighteen-hundred of a ten-horse chariot which ended in an accident However, supposedly still haunted by the memory Furies, he refrained from visiting either It was during this trip that he met the slave Poppaea so much that the boy was castrated Calvia Crispinilla, a woman of noble birth, with instructions to dress him in only the ensure his hair and make-up made him the very His tour culminated in November 67 AD in his the entire province was released from the As a further gesture Nero laid plans and dug canal through the Corinth isthmus, however was not to be completed. But Nero's actions in Greece were viewed as well as making yet another show of his resentment towards him. 67 AD not only witnessed Nero's achievements in Judaea and other areas of the Jewish diaspora of a Roman garrison at Masada. Early in 67 AD it descended into full scale A new governor was installed and Vespasian to quell the violence. Vespasian was successful in his campaigns, but victory would not be achieved until two some resistance continuing in 73 AD. His visit to Greece was supposed to have lasted Helius attempted several times to persuade the emperor ignored him. It was only when he travelled to Greece to of the gravity of the ill feeling back in But Nero still made time to enjoy a triumph he drove Augustus' own triumphal chariot. But he didn't remain in the city for long Naples. His break was interrupted by news that the Gaul, had rebelled and was raising an army to trouble him, and he delayed informing the Again, he showed little concern when he finally Domus Aurea, in the heart of Rome, preferring rather than the rebellion. But more was to follow when on the 2nd of instead of Nero and began building up his his command, and quickly he found support was still in Lusitania. suffect consul and instruct three legions Lugdunum, while those legions in Italy were defence of the river Po, and sending some Nero supposedly considered accompanying the instead having musical instruments loaded as well as providing them with concubines at a safe distance from any battle, but it However, things quickly grew worse when the supposedly allied himself with Vindex, although the legions slaughtered twenty thousand of Verginius, despite being hailed as imperator into Italy and instead wrote to the senate orders. As the weeks wore on Nero seemed to have been making arrangements to travel to Alexandria in the protection of Italy. But behind the scenes Nymphidius was making with an agent of Galba. An advance party was sent ahead to Alexandria, many of Nero's freedmen and Germanic bodyguard to guard the emperor, and when he instructed Nero went to bed that night still guarded, praetorians and many of his servants gone. Finding the palace almost deserted he fled and Sporus, making for Phaon's villa outside Later that night news reached the villa that declared a public enemy and would face the the streets naked and beaten to death with Epaphroditus suggested suicide. At dawn on the 9th of June, Nero went outside himself through the throat just as soldiers Supposedly shortly before he died he uttered His body was claimed by Claudia Acte and prepared before being quietly cremated, his ashes were With Nero's death the Julio-Claudian line into turmoil with the civil war in the following the four emperors. Nero's reign was divided into two parts years, the turning point beginning with the Ascending to the principate at a young age, was assisted in his rule extensively by his Much of what he did in these early years was and less and less by Agrippina as time went Nero as an independent ruler in his own right. a number of reforms and decrees that benefitted From the outset he chose to work with the trials which had caused the deaths of many. His love of the arts provided the grateful gladiatorial combat was somewhat reduced in Nero preferred. His building projects as well, initially were and the large public baths and gymnasium, of the Ostia harbour begun under Claudius. He also took steps to ensure the grain supply, abandoned. After the murder of his mother, followed by those that were close to him were of the more his court was resented by many. Even more so after the fire for which he was to build the 100 acre Domus Aurea Golden House Taxation for the rebuilding of Rome and the the wealth of those who hadn't made provision him more unpopular. With the restraint of his former advisors and while others of the nobility took to the on Roman virtues. Although the prosecutions under Nero did not emperors in the later years, no one was safe even his old tutor Seneca who had been held Ultimately Nero's Hellenic leanings and surviving two senatorial conspiracies, he upon for his protection. What do you think of Emperor Nero? Should he be remembered and vindicated for the reputation of the man who fiddled while the ages? Please let us know in the comment section, watching.