Between January and March, Madagascar undergoes the Rivers in flood We were driving as usual which is usually no problem. Arriving at this place, In the fall, Everyone is trying now before the river swells again. Dozens of cars are I'm really discouraged, but I say to myself I have to accept it. There is another way, but As always, when there is Against a few coins, to transfer their goods The van was As for the road, it remained The color of his land An unstable land in period mud and floods This truck is also Rare adventurers the most remote villages. It's the 50th time we stop. Madagascar is the last rickshaws When I pull a My feet go These horsemen are in competition with a legacy of I have already transported a team Malagasy people like like those in the arena. Madagascar Island in south-eastern Africa. In its center, and high plateaus on of the city of Ambositra, In this neighborhood at dawn, since her singing was Men cut, twist and the most worn mechanics. This wreck looks good for scrap. However, in a few hours, she will face the roads You have to put a tensioner Sido paid 7,000 euros for his truck. The first time he saw her, he guessed that a treasure I assure you, It's just the body It is practically new. Look at the mileage, Hard to believe. The next morning, the goods Sido has a ton of salt to deliver in one of the regions Without electricity, to preserve the meat. Listen to this, it spins like a I tie the door, I want to avoid accidents. We are ready. We are at kilometer zero, the trip will last about 14 hours, if we don't break down. fourteen hours of i.e. an average of The beginning of the trip looks bad. At the exit of the village... The flange is a piece of metal No time to solder, these straps In Madagascar, you cannot you must also be Your truck will always have When leaving... The starter no longer works, we will use a rope to A starter at the end of the race, doors that tires that The list goes on and on. It will be a year When skating in I save for To slow down, I'm I put myself first It's dangerous, but I'm careful. Like now There's a truck coming Engine braking is not enough. The two helpers with big stones, not really effective. As the kilometers go by, They will even intensify. The man is still the best It takes a lot of patience, a good bearing of the head, especially Certain goods Once a pig He fell right there right in front of the police. In the village of Ivato, and its indestructible 4L. As long as there is room, We will sit on and if there are other passengers, In addition to the three pigs, To be comfortable I only take and not too big. I must be able to reach and there, all is well. The trip does not seem Cheerful pig equals happy customer. Toto's 4L is always full. The trip costs 30 cents, At that price to be profitable, it In order to charge even more, and reinforced the frame. I put a piece of rubber the car does not touch the ground. I have already carried a There were six people We removed the seat They were packed like bananas. Between goods and passengers, is twice as much as With such a load, Toto It only connects the villages The journeys do not exceed Finally, that's enough to get by Madagascar Island of the poorest countries in the world. His government still allows rickshaw pullers. They are the last horsemen. I'm going to get a bag of coal. I have to deliver it to the market and I will be paid 15 cents The price is quite fair, The bag weighs about 40 kilos, nothing very heavy. Olivier, 23, is already two years old Rickshaws are not expensive. It's also very affordable A taxi ride is six times The warehouse is one kilometer away. It is not very far, on which the city It's hard downhill my feet serve At first, Olivier wore shoes. Only problem, they were wearing out The first time I shot My feet started to swell I asked for advice and they told me the light bulbs, you had to do with it. Here, nobody respects us. The trucks are coming in force. Taxis do us The cars we because we are not going fast enough. They brush against us, At the arrival of a coast, generally, customers sympathize with This lady does not intend to get tired. The climbs are the it is when there are two people. Their weights pull me back and For the same price, it In most of the cases, They stay seated in the rickshaw. They see that I'm tired, Rickshaws like Olivier, are not owners they rent it for 45 cents a day. It takes three races The road is very slippery when After a day you are tired You're coming home, to do things, It's exhausting work, Olivier rents a room in this house The rain left I'm so cold. In the middle of the night, were drenched in sweat. He was sweating a lot. I stuck to him and I I have to stay home So no one to buy I had to go begging, I'm ashamed, normally, If our life is so difficult, it's because I I wish my health would improve. matter of survival the man on horseback resumed his cart. Further, in the hills, the road mistreats Sido The driver chained the breakdowns. I'm afraid there's a leak You have to check because They've been driving for five hours and the team did not travel The smell of diesel is more present. Now she overwhelms The breakdown is Helpers tinker with this plastic container. We're gonna skate, it's gonna be My tires are too I happened to take a day to do this bit The sound is the envelope The drivers The giant ruts at the edge of the breaking point. My truck is flexible, He knows how to get back in place. The rigid frames They can overturn very quickly. Last year I repaired the rear axle, the truck has become too The stamina of his A disturbing click is heard. The bearing of We're going to have to dismantle it, This new after ten hours of driving. I broke four bolts at the same time, there is one that is only unscrewed. We are in a hurry to get to Ambohibary. Fatigue heats up the spirits. The driver doesn't really like delays, he yells very loudly at The terms of We have to bear it all because it is the Sido pays his assistants at If the tarp rubs Hard to believe, but 60 years ago, this road was a long one It was under the French protectorate. Since then, The government save secondary routes. The road deteriorates, In five years, Maybe even less because To the extent that have become ditches Thirteen hour drive, It is not however He still has We have to eat because and when the body rice and beef, it's perfect Sido, the driver, lives in this village He runs a grocery store there with his wife. Most of the inhabitants Some foodstuffs come I sell vegetables, In the region, it's raining so much I also sell In my shop there are products For example, spaghetti, some don't know Every time I owe them and now people are eating it. Sido also loads 3,000 liters of rum, the most trade With rum, it sells very well. I'm afraid that he will have an accident, Here I open the store The truck we and allows us to keep the shop. After two hours of rest, The end of the road looks complicated. No time for him to attend it marks the end Away from the crowd, Kambana, 19, prepare for battle. This fabric will protect my It is not easy I give you my blessing, That the horns and the Go, fight my son. I'm proud of him and the heritage that is passed on That's wonderful, Kambana will not be alone in the arena. Here are the five fighters united, I'm super excited, I feel We are considered the best fighters in the village. With this game, Girls are attracted we are too successful. After the fights He thinks of girls, Indeed, it is better to be focused. Their adversary is here. It's a zebu zebu means hump, which he carries on his back. She allows him to when the grass runs out. The beast is Look at me everyone I'm stressed, I've never been so scared. The aim of the game, clinging to the hump of the zebu. The black zebu is called Comet, it is the strongest and the most To face Comete is to display This fighter held Comet intends to take there are never any deaths, The zebu crushed me against the palisade. Wake up now, I am in shock, It's the turn of He hopes that the turban he will protect him from the blows of horns. Kambana triumphs My fight went well It was neat and flawless My father's blessing worked. I'm really going out All fights Sido is a road warrior. He fights against the mud, After his gas tank leaked, The truck has to We have a leak in the radiator. You have to add water in it. Prevention is better than cure. They traveled 48 kilometers in Sido does not want to ride at night and try to win We had to stop at least Now we don't even stop We just have to drive very slowly. Even if the hood is open, I can drive Now the helpers with their water cans on their backs. In my opinion, Sido With Ned, I had to add Despite the good will of his assistants, Sido does not escape the night, nor problems. After the brakes let go, faulty starter, tank and radiator leaks, It's the turn of the wheel The part that allows the wheel it also needs to be replaced. With all these tremors, it moves. Joint rubs, expands Sido's Men Twenty minutes later, Working at night is exhausting. Sleep awaits us The road is so bad. We have to be in front Run to put we see nothing at all. We may have lost without realising it. Twenty hours they drive The stock of rice bran is quickly exhausted. The assistants use In the early morning, the village is in sight. The crew hasn't slept all night and he no longer believed in it. Their speed of two kilometers per hour. Fifty-eight kilometers in 26 hours! I'm completely knackered. I'm going home to see With my money, By drinking a shot, it will be better. The merchandise, it She now walks the paths