Welcome back to the stage, -[Patrick] All right. I hope you've enjoyed and when we last saw you this morning. For this afternoon's keynote, I'm about to introduce somebody Although a fun fact that you may not know he's been a CEO of NVIDIA making him the longest-serving CEO and therefore logically-- John and I have only been doing it So, even if we double that, Jensen, well, we'll talk attended the Oneida Baptist Institute We'll definitely be asking him about it. Oregon State, worked as There's a Denny's close to here, actually. LSI Logic and then AMD, now run by his first cousin once removed. We'll definitely be asking about that. Before he founded NVIDIA in 1993... and NVIDIA's market cap was $8 billion And it is now, of course, more than Please welcome to the stage, -[Jensen] Hey, everybody! -[Patrick] So you watched -I did. I've never seen a duet before. -I've never seen a duet before. It seemed like the two of you knew -Some acquaintance. You've been doing keynotes a long time. You are the <i>keynote goat</i>. -Stop it. -Give us your, like... We're just amateurs here. -It's because you're still young. -Well, give us your keynote performance -I thought it was A+. You explained perfectly the purpose of the company. What keeps you guys up. The ecosystem that you serve, the amazing contribution you make It's incredible. I thought it was great! And there was a whole bunch of technology I didn't understand any of that, but... something about a CYK or something, -A KYC. I thought it was-- -It's a big deal in our world. -Is that right? -We take care of KYC so that you can -Okay. Got it. -Software-defined financial services, this idea, did that make sense to you? -Well, first of all, -Do you know where it came from? -You're going to tell me? -So Jensen and I were catching up... -The part that in the very beginning that financial I thought that was incredible. And you explained that So, Jensen and I were catching up and I guess it was a couple And so he was asking for the update And you said, &quot;Oh, so it's like software- And that was still ricocheting around That's where we got to this idea for So I hope we don't have to pay -I got zero equity for that good idea. -All right. You guys are doing okay. Tesla's earnings were reported yesterday, and Elon announced that Tesla A100s by the end of this year. And I was just reflecting on-- it's quite a success to sort where CEOs kind of compete with who has spent more buying your product. So I think you've done something But anyway, I actually want to start out -All of my CEO friends, -So I want to start out talking a remark you made at a Stanford event And you said, &quot;I wish upon you Elaborate. -Well. Let's see. There's a phrase that said, &quot;You should choose your career Usually people connect passion And I think there's something Nothing there is wrong, And the reason for that is because and I know this to be true about And by the way, young as he may be, yep. You guys know, I've met a lot of CEOs, and this is genuinely one of the world's And so anyways, It's the reason why I just love what... -No more compliments allowed, -I know, I could tell. And so the thing is, when you want it's not easy to do. And when you're doing something you're not always enjoying it. I don't love every day of my job. I don't think every day brings me joy, nor does joy have to be And every day I'm not happy. Every year I'm not happy But I love the company And so I think that what somehow the best jobs are the ones that I don't think that that's right. You have to struggle. You have to do those hard things and work through it in order to really And there are no such things that And so by definition, I wish upon you greatness, which, I wish upon you plenty of pain -Anything in your upbringing or is it just somehow innate -I didn't realize I had I'm about to tell you things I've never I was an immigrant. My older brother was almost 11. And this was a foreign country And we also grew up with really, But we weren't wealthy. And so they And so they passed along I had all kinds of jobs and we went to a school -It's in Kentucky? -Yeah, Kentucky. I don't think it's the same as 'MIT', It's the same word, but it's different. But my institute required you to go and so there were a lot of chores. I was the youngest kid in school, and so all of the other kids They had to work in the tobacco farm, I was nine years old, and so after they I never felt that I got the easy job, because what they left behind was... But that was my job and And then I had plenty of other jobs, And I started out as a dishwasher and And I loved every one of them. Somehow, I've always found... I want to say joy, Just everything that I was doing, And maybe that was kind of ingrained but I was definitely the best I'm sure of it. Yeah. -So if we fast forward just a little bit, how large is your leadership team? -How large is...? -NVIDIA's leadership team is 60+ people. -And they all report to you? -Yeah, they all report to me. -60 direct reports. Yeah. -Which is not conventionally considered I agree that the best practice... -I'm certain that's the best practice. It's not conventional, but I am certain And by the end of this, to have 60 people on your direct reports. -The floor is yours. -The reason... first of all, the reason is because the layer of Information really matters. I believe that your contribution to... the work should not be based on the I don't do one-on-ones and I don't... and almost everything that I say, And the reason for that is because I don't really believe there's any that somehow only one or two people And these are the challenges or this is the problem or this is the direction These are the new endeavors. This isn't working. That's working well. And so all of this type of information I love that everybody is I love that there is no privileged access I love that we're able to all contribute And when you have 60 people in a room Well my staff meetings are once and it's all based on issues, Everybody's there working everybody heard Everybody heard the reasoning of the And so that empowers people. I believe that when you give it empowers people. Number two, the number of layers you've is probably something like seven, -60 at every layer, or only 60? As in, if I'm one of the fortunate 60, -No. I also don't think And the reason for that is because depending on certain levels. And at the E-Staff level, if you're so unfortunate to be serving it's very unlikely -And so I rarely find myself having But if I were to kind of steel mine one-on-ones are where you where you maybe talk through goals career advancement, what have you. Where maybe you give feedback systematically not doing So there's all these things conventionally supposed to do Do you not do those things or -Really good question. I do it right there. I give you feedback right there And in fact, this is really a big deal. First of all, feedback is learning. For what reason are you Now you created the conditions because of some mistake that you made or silliness that you brought We should all learn from that opportunity. So you created the conditions, Does that make sense? And so for me to explain to you or how I differ from it-- but for me to reason through it helps everybody learn how And so the issue-- the problem I have with is you deprive a whole bunch Learning from mistakes, is the best way to learn. Why learn from your own mistakes? Why learn from your own embarrassment? You got to learn from other That's why we have case studies. We're trying to read from other people's Nothing makes us happier than that. -Have you succeeded in getting other or is that difficult? -I give people the opportunity but I really discourage one-on-ones. I really discourage one-on-ones. Nothing is worse than &quot;Oh, Jensen wants us to do this.&quot; Why does that have to be said to anybody? Or somebody said, Nothing drives me nuttier than that. -You once told me that you really didn't Can you elaborate on that? -Well, I'd rather improve you When you fire somebody, Well, a lot of people say, &quot;It wasn't your fault&quot; or There are very few jobs-- and now I'm a CEO of a company, I'm pretty certain you can learn this. And there are a lot of things in life And you just have to be given I had the benefit of watching a lot of I'm surrounded by 60 people. And they probably don't realize it, but I'm learning constantly from And so, I don't like giving up on people And so there's a-- but people know that I'd rather -That was the phrase that Yeah, I remember you mentioned that. -Yeah. So I'd rather torture you into And I think coaches that torture them into greatness. And oftentimes they're so close. Greatness kind of comes all of a sudden, Do you know what I'm saying? That feeling that you didn't and all of a sudden one day Could you imagine you gave up just I don't want you to give up on that, so I'll just keep torturing you. -How's your work-life balance? -Well, it depends on who you ask. I think my work-life balance It's really great. I feel like he's judging me. I'm older than you. So what I... -These are all the highlights that I think more people -Well, I work from the moment and I work seven days a week. When I'm not working, And when I'm working, And I sit through movies, because I'm thinking about work. And so that's-- But my work is not, as you know, there's this problem and you're You're thinking about what and are there things that Or sometimes it's just trying to But sometimes you're imagining the future. And, boy, if we did this and that. It's working, you're fantasizing, I mean, that's incredible. -Well, so yeah, and we will get to talking about AI, -It's a thing. But to concrete concretize what does a day in -Well, I used to wake up at five. These days, I wake up at six And the reason why six, that six o'clock is when And I don't know what it is. but I feel guilty when I And it actually burdens me. They pick up on any vibration in the house and it wakes them up and And I just read in bed until -But you're thinking about GPUs? -Oh yeah. Yeah, yeah, sure. I'm obsessed I'm constantly... -And then the day is all, I guess, Because it can't be -Yeah. I get my work done before I go -And how many meetings in a typical day? -Pretty much all day long. And so, I select the meetings that I try not to have regular meetings, regular operational meetings. Because I've got amazing people in doing regular operational meetings. And so we're pinch hitters, We should be working on the things So you're jumping in to projects -That's right. -Wherever we can move the needle. I hate reporting meetings. I just have problem meetings. And so problem meetings, or idea meetings, or creation meetings, or whatever it is, those are the meetings I go to. And so usually I call them, I try really hard not to have Outlook And so we purposefully decide what kind of things we want to do, And so I try to and I manage my time accordingly. Yeah. -You used a phrase, once, that $0 billion markets are -Yeah. -If you take a step back, our purpose, almost all of our purposes should be to go and do something That is insanely hard to do. That if you achieve it, I know your company does that. And if that's the case, it hasn't been It's probably-- and it's never that market is probably Because it has never been done before. I'd rather be a market maker, To create something new that I don't love thinking about share. And the reason for that is because Stripe existed out of thin air, You created something out of vapor. It wasn't as if there was another-- And so I'd like to think that we can A $0 billion market is a good way how to go create something -So our mission is to grow and the GDP of the internet-- the clause in that usually gets But I think the most important Because, to your point, which are the transactions or which are the businesses we should be thinking about, which are and which are the businesses The GDP of the world but it doesn't have to be $100 trillion. It could be $200 trillion -That's exactly right. And most of the value we're going are likely not limited by physical things. And so this is a pretty -And so with this concept if I'm at NVIDIA, am I coming to you and maybe there's several billion dollars it's a many-year pursuit or something. And there are no customers for it today, there's no demand And you guys are just making a gut call &quot;Yes nobody is doing this today. And therefore we're going to pursue it.&quot; -Really close. Yeah. And it's a gut call in the sense that your intuition says something but then you have to reason through it. And the reasoning of it is much, much more I hate spreadsheets because you can make You can make any chart you want You just got to type in some numbers. And so I don't love spreadsheets I love words for that reason, Tell me, how did you reason through this? Why do we believe that matters? I like hard things because it and if it takes a long time to do... a lot of people who are less committed If it's really, really hard to do, it takes a really resilient really committed person to go after it. And if it also takes a long time to do, you can kind of flounder around And so I could be incompetent and everybody goes, -And where did Cuda come from? -Cuda came originally from two ideas. I hate to get technical, but we created, we pioneered, this idea Accelerated computing is something that you sit on PCI Express, if anybody's in the computer business, an IO device that allows the application in such a way as to accelerate parts And UDA was an invention in 1993, allows the software programmer write an application directly because the IO device it's architecturally compatible It's, anyways, we invented this idea and that was-- we call it unified driver And then several years later, we thought we could make our to high level programing languages. And we invented this idea called CG, C for graphics, okay. And that opened up And we thought, you know what But CG, the programing model, And so we invented Cuda which is compute, So anyways that's how. Anyways, we invented this idea We pioneered this approach. I guess the real question is -No, it was an incredible And it kind of went like this. -This is one of your -Yeah. -Yeah. Because it was a But it cost so much to go after it actually crushed And the reason for that is because Cuda added a ton of cost into our chips, And if there are no applications, customers don't value the product and And if people aren't willing to pay then your gross margins get crushed. Our market cap was low and I think our market cap went I wish I had bought it, -Okay. And so therefore you and went back to the old strategy. -No, no, I believed in Cuda, because you Look, we really believed that was going to be able to solve problems And if we wanted to to be much more general-purpose, And so I deeply believed in I deeply believed in its opportunities. -I deeply, deeply believe They just didn't appreciate what we built. -And so weren't analysts and you've torpedoed this You have this hyped thing that that nobody seems to actually want. The business is really suffering, Talk us through that. You believed. -Well, it goes something like this, Something like that-- denial. No, I'm just kidding. And if you believe something-- -Did the board put pressure -They... I start every conversation with and they believed it And I reasoned about it. It wasn't like it was a spreadsheet, and therefore you've They had to believe the reasoning, -How long did it take it to start working? -Probably ten years, yeah. It wasn't that long. Ten years. -Ten years. -Yeah, it comes and goes. The suffering, I barely remembered it. -Could NVIDIA be as successful -No, impossible. It is potentially one of the most We invented this idea called and the idea is so simple It says the vast majority... a small percentage occupies, consumes, 99.999% And this is true for a lot of And that small little kernel, or some several kernels, It's not all just parallel processing. It's not as simple as that. But the idea is that that piece of software, and accelerate the living daylights And today, when Moore's Law and CPU scaling is basically stopped, you're going to see extraordinary Because the amount of computation is doubling every year still, and yet if CPUs are not increasing in performance then what's your alternative? Your cost of computing is going And so the time has come -So everyone here runs a business and... -Accelerate everything! -And you heard it here first. And probably everyone has or a thing that they think really or makes sense for their but where the market doesn't see it yet. Do you think it's possible to extract any when you should really doggedly and when perhaps it's in a fashion that we could in the case of Cuda and other the course of NVIDIA's history? -Yeah. The question is determination and that line is fuzzy. I gut-checked against I still do. The first principles by which you the first principles by which you those first principles are easy to And now the question is, did they change in some Are external conditions such that they Did somebody else solve the problem, and therefore that problem Is it that there will never be any need? You gut-check it, right, constantly. And to the extent that-- You have to first of all be really careful instead of, &quot;I want something&quot;, You can't reason about it. We're not five-year-olds, right? And so you've got to reason about it, Number two, you have to be clever. The fact of the matter is there are a lot It's amazing how many great companies and young companies You have to be clever. And so we found ways to monetize, even in a small way, Cuda. And so we found-- we looked We found an application with We found an application with We found another application with and so we're constantly looking They didn't make it a home run And bought us time -Okay. So let's talk about about AI. I'm going to just do some math Let's just say that the total, sort of compute capacity of all What do you think... What multiple of X will -First of all, you know that I'm going And this is be... I'm a public company, you crazy person. How nice is it to be private? -Safe to say considerably more. -Well, let's reason about it, shall we? Let's reason our way through okay. So first of all, it goes like this. The world has installed about Those trillion dollars worth of data General-purpose computing We cannot continue to process that way. And so the world is going to accelerate And so we're going When we accelerate everything, every single computer Well, there's about a trillion dollars over the next four years that Four years, six years, But if the computer industry continues we'll probably have to replace, over the about $2 trillion worth of computers So just make that GPUs, okay? That's number one. This is the reason why, you're onto something This idea called, and you've heard me say Let me tell you why. We are producing something that has never been produced before. And we're producing it in And the production of this &quot;thing&quot; requires a new instrument It's a GPU. And the thing that we're producing for the mathematicians and all the for all of you, you know that We're producing floating point numbers at and the floating point numbers have value. The reason why they have value It's artificial intelligence. You can take these You reformulate it in such a way that it chemicals, graphics, images, videos, steering wheel articulation. We're producing tokens Now we've discovered a way with artificial intelligence, So now, the world is going to Now these tokens are going to be produced We call them AI factories. Back in the last industrial revolution, you light the water on fire, right? Turn it into steam and Atoms come in, electrons go out. In this new industrial revolution, electrons come in and And just like the last nobody understood why electricity marketed kilowatt hours per dollar. And so now we have And so that same logic is as incomprehensible to a lot of people but it's going to be completely normal These tokens are going to create enhance productivity $100 trillion worth of industries And so this industry is And in order to monetize that, transact I have to tell you, The first time I met Patrick, First of all, -We tried to refine -First of all, you're in a complicated But nonetheless, Incredible what you guys have built. -We're going to get you now that we have -I wish I had a business -I think your public filing suggests We'll follow up on it. All right. -It's only ten transactions. Your economics serving us is like nothing, -We'd happily take the 2.9% . But anyway, -Done! -You can't say that. Thinking about these token factories. I feel like a big question right now in the sense that, we demoed the and you can write some natural language, And going from maybe to a 70 billion parameter model there might be a significant kind of, consequential improvement in query for the typical kinds of queries that But maybe going to a model that's ten x Like at some point you get to good enough, you can reliably convert the I think there's a question of, for the use cases for which LLM's what does that and for how many use cases does one a 10 trillion parameter model? Or do we simply reach a point where, less than 100 billion, Do you have any point of view on that, a reasonable way to look at the -Okay, let's break it down. -In public. -Almost everything, every question I get, okay, let's break it down, So, let's start with an example. In 2012, AlexNet was a computer vision. ImageNet, image recognition 82%, Over the next... I think it was like seven years, every single year, the accuracy Every year the error reduced in half So you double the performance, and you double its believability Over the course of seven years, Same thing with speech recognition, same thing with We want to know, we want to believe that the answer that's We want to believe that. And so the industry is going to chase that believability or that accuracy, and double its accuracy 2x every year. I believe that's going to be the same And of course the problem but I have every certainty that we're going to double to the point where it is so accurate. And we've we've largely tested when you interact with it that you go, This is really, really good.&quot; I believe the answer that it's producing The second thing is this. Today's language models, today's AI and everything that And yet you and I both know that there are are not one shot. You have to iterate. And so how do you come up-- How do you come up with a strategy Maybe you need to use tools. Maybe you Maybe you have to do Maybe you have to ask another agent. Maybe you have to be human in a loop. Triggering events, send an Get a response before you can move on to And so a large language model has That's not a one shot thing. And once it comes up with a plan there's a whole bunch that are going to get And so I think your And so instead of a one shot model, it's going to be a planning model with a whole bunch of that are particularly good at And so I think -Meta garnered a lot of attention last which seems to be the most impressive Any thoughts on open-source models? -If you ask me, what are the top most important events in I would tell you, of course, ChatGPT, reinforcement learning, human feedback, grounding it to human values and having Obviously a breakthrough, It made it possible for everybody Everybody is now doing amazing ChatGPT, the work that OpenAI did, Greg and Sam and the team, The second thing that I would say I would say, is Llama, Llama 2 activated just to jump into working on generative AI. And it opened the floodgates being able to access this technology, health care, financial services, manufacturing, you name it, I think Llama 2 and Llama 3, because it's open-sourced, it engaged startups, engaged industry. I think that's a very big deal. And so I think ChatGPT I think Llama democratized generative AI. And I think without it, it's very hard to have activated all of and all of the different ways And all the reasoning technology and all the reinforcement learning stuff. And that stuff would have been very hard to have activated without Llama. -Dario Amodei was on Ezra Klein's And he, as many others have, many others in particular who are was predicting AGI in Conceivably the next couple of years, years like 2027, and so on, Thoughts? -Depending on how you define AGI. Now, first of all, as an engineer, you know that we can ultimately, if you can measure it. And so you have to express the mission, somehow, If you told me that AGI is the there are math tests, and reasoning tests, and you make your list of all It doesn't matter what it is, If you make your list, I am certain we will achieve excellent results And if that's the definition of AGI, it's probably definitely within And so all of the tests that we currently they're improving their accuracy or their error rate is reducing And so there's no reason why all to be superhuman pretty soon. -So again, everyone in this audience-- That doesn't meet the standard. That doesn't meet the standard Does that make sense? That's probably not what they're thinking, The way I defined it is simply so that you can answer that question. The second way of answering the question in an undefined way? If it's undefinable, How long would it take? Undefinable. -And so everyone in this audience And a practical question they/we how do you know if you're, in the face of how does one know, how can one know whether one is responding appropriately, Any advice? -If you're not engaging AI actively You're not going to lose your job to AI. You're going to lose your job Your company is not going to go Your company is going to go out of There's no question about that. And so you have to engage You have to engage AI so that you could do things that For example, if the marginal cost of There are a lot of things that that you wouldn't have done otherwise. And so notice how often we do search and these days notice how Any random question, Right. And so why not. -Or, just gave a talk here at Sessions. -Okay, I love using it. And even if I know the answer, just to see what it comes up with. And so, I think we want that to happen. We want the marginal cost of these type of activities so that you use it in abundance. Second, if you could use AI You know that productive companies Higher earnings leads to more employment. More employment leads to And so, there's a lot of reasons to want -And apart from just changing your how has AI changed how NVIDIA -We were one of the first technology in our own AI supercomputers. We can't design a chip At night, our AIs are vast and wide that we would because it costs too much And so our chips are so much better. Because of an AI, we could reduce the as higher performance. Our software. We can't write software We have to explore all the-- the design space of optimizing We use AIs to file bugs. So our bugs database actually tells you what's wrong with and activates that person to go fix it. So, I think I want everybody, every organization in our company I want to turn NVIDIA into a one giant AI. And then I'll have work life balance. Are there any favorite examples businesses in maybe some kind of some unexpected use case can serve as a poster child for some where they've really realized -The biggest surprise of AI that shouldn't is that when we say it's the word language doesn't mean and it doesn't mean English only, or Irish only, or that's a whole Is there a large language -I've tried it. -Yeah, it works well. John and I spent most of our education And so, these models are I've had the chance to have -Very surprising. -In many years. Yeah. They do well, and actually I've been-- -Suno? kind of synthetic music. -And I've been enjoying creating... -I of course tested it on that. And Celtic dubstep is -Fantastic. Okay. Makes sense. Like if it could do that, then of course it could learn Of course they can learn the-- And if a language model which is a sequence time series, Why can't it learn robotics articulation You just have to figure out And so the idea that all of I could also learn SQL, I can learn all these proprietary I can learn, right. So all of a sudden I can put a copilot on top of -And to this point, is the future one of 100,000 models or is the future one of one model? And they're just a model -I think that it would be great that help you reason about things, But, for us, for all companies that domain-specific expertise, we're going to have to And the reason for that is because That difference between 99% and 99.3% is the difference between And so it's too valuable to us. No different than fraud detection for you, -That's been exactly our experience. However good the general model is, you're going to want to take that improve it into perfection because it's -And so we're going to shortly And there's a whole bunch of questions I've exercised poor discipline on So there's a bunch that I think but there's a couple that I really wanted So, Lisa Sue is your -Yes. Yeah. She's terrific. She's amazing. -And AMD is now-- -Yeah, and AMD is now one of your -No. We're family. -Okay. -One of your partners in the industry. -Yeah, yeah. We buy from AMD. -What's going on in the water? How did we end up with two of the, arguably the two most important, GPU What's going on? -You got to keep it close to the family. No, I have no idea how it happened. We didn't grow up together. -And that makes it even -Yeah, yeah. We didn't even know each And her career is incredible. -I think this question So you've been operating -Yes. -How has Silicon Valley culture -Oh, wow. I haven't thought about I guess in a lot of ways probably-- When I first started NVIDIA, I was 29 years old with acne and, you go talk to your talk to your-- and VCs and I got a big zit on my forehead and, I don't have one today, but it could it could happen. And so anyways, because most of CEOs back then wore suits And they sound like adults and and they talk about business And, so, when you're young, You're surrounded by a bunch of adults. Well, now if you don't have acne, I don't think you deserve That's one big difference. Acne. The takeaway from Jensen's speech. What it means is really we've enabled I think the young generation of CEOs, the type of things that you guys know is really quite extraordinary. I mean, it took me decades to learn it. -Last question. -That was a compliment. I wasn't saying you have acne. -NVIDIA has a market cap And you're now within spitting And I just checked and they have 220,000 and 160,000 employees, NVIDIA has 28,000 employees, so, less than a fifth of the And then you just said when we and I jotted this down, &quot;You can achieve but craft can only be And so NVIDIA is considerably smaller And you seem to think that And I guess that craft really matters. Do you want to say -I think extraordinary things-- I think good things are made But you can't make extraordinary things And the reason for that is because in your body of work and the company you created, it takes loving care. You can't even put it in words. How do you put love and care in an email? And for people to go, You can't put that in a business process, -Is Love and Care an NVIDIA catchphrase? -Well I use Love fairly abundantly, -At Stripe we talk a lot -Yeah, right. in a lot of ways there are You can't put in numbers, you can't write The product specification says, &quot;I want you to build something great That's in great, great craft.&quot; -But I'm sure there's Patrick's always yammering on -And it's this kind of-- I just want to let you know that. -Okay. Well, yeah. -You're more lucid than I am. I just babble, but, hey, &quot;So Patrick is always going and wants things to have this particular but it doesn't directly serve some Like customers aren't coming &quot;I want the product to be more beautiful.&quot; They're saying, And yet we believe that Sounds like you're getting at something -Actually your customers, they might not have the words to say it, There's no question. Stripe's work has beauty, Simplicity is not simple, Simplicity and simple are not... And it has elegance and it burdens you, but not too much, and so that balance is hard to find. And you can't specify that, And when you have a team that is with you, that feels the way they're together, in a lot of ways we've codified, the magic of the company And you don't want to lose that. You want to take that and take it And so I don't want to reset. I don't like working with Because I've encoded, I've embodied, suffering, joy, knowledge. Right. All that experience, life experience. You've encoded it in all the people You want to carry it on. And that's really the reason why And because of that, And NVIDIA is kind of a small team people think we punch well above And so it's amazing and how incredibly small you are, 7,000 people supporting ecosystem and industry and economy and who knows how So I'm very proud of you. -Jensen. Thank you.