The scheduled video I'm supposed to be doing discussing Rotating Habitats and Interstellar on those in large part because there is a needs to be addressed first and that's how powering artificial habitats or giant launch lot of energy and that isn't something we So if you're one of my regular subscribers, If you're not one of my regular subscribers then you're probably noticing I sound a and you might want to turn on the closed caption help and even discounting the speech impediment technical terms in these videos you might Also if you're new to these videos I will will typically be accompanied by a thumbnail it, you can click those at anytime and it in a new window. been where you get the power to do all these up around your planet or terraform another this can be done without a revolutionary new nuclear fusion would be if we had that. before though, and while there are a lot of would work, they don't tend to really discuss a functional fusion reactor would have. as the technology that's 20 years away, of over-hyped alleged cold fusion inventions. than something like faster-than-light travel impossible. So I like to explain how a lot be done without it. Fusion is a huge gamechanger necessary for us to expand out into the stars lost if we don't have this cool piece of Today we're going to skip over the skepticism. for doing fusion. We've got a number of from different angles and none work yet so videos that discuss them already, would seem real quick, the one that works and we've skepticism. overview of what nuclear fusion is and how Nuclear Fusion, which is what powers the stars of light elements like hydrogen, or hydrogen's form a heavier element like helium, or slamming This process releases a lot of energy because electron each, and carbon is six neutrons, weighs noticeably more than one carbon atom. stuff, neutrinos and high energy photons, Fusion fuses together lighter elements into so. than an equal weight of gasoline or coal or Fission does it backwards, taking big heavy smaller ones, releasing energy while doing does, and there's a lot more hydrogen, deuterium, Uranium. So it's a better power source. incredible heat and pressure to make it work, spending way more energy then you get out That's why cold fusion is always such an to be in the cards. It's also why fusion one big immense blast and don't care if the process. fusion we do have, the original one, the H-Bomb why we have that irritating quip about how always will be. We went from a basic understanding plant in about one generation. We then got and Nagasaki. Some jumped the gun thinking the same timeline, that turned out not to soon ahead for some decades, now they are Fusion isn't a certainty, and I certainly but for my part I'm very optimistic we'll would not be surprised at this point if we or thirty years. bomb but also a working fusion reactor that sun. Simply put, you can build a fusion reactor wide, insulated and sturdy bunker full of in a fusion bomb and let it go off. That heats makes power. You dump another in when you're You dump a multi- megaton nuclear device into across once every hour and you've got all continent. to go, H-bombs even without the expensive that would make the Hoover Dam look like a to do fusion power. Forget the method, just assume we have one. compact and high powered versions, and large but power produced per kilogram of the total we're concerned would be whether or not and some payload into orbit. It's like a a billion or so joules per kilogram of their so. Conservatively. per kilogram of panel. That's a few hundred or rocket fuel have. can't make a solar powered launch vehicle, space where you need expend all that energy for a nuclear fission plant, of course uranium solar panels or fossil fuels, and it's still radiation shielding and power generation ability. out steam from the bottom and lift itself may not produce enough power, which is energy though it would easily produce far more energy into orbit. that could as a compact one. And if you've still have options like space elevators and to get the job done of getting stuff off planet. if the fusion reactor, or fusion drive, is for hours or days is just as good as a fast minutes. That's why ion drives look nice orbit, they produce a lot of higher final time to do it. travel, taking a long while to get up to and big a deal. And if you're curious the usual drive is around 10% of light speed, the approximate carry your fuel to speed up and slow down. we need to look at now is what fusion actually an infinite power supply its one that produces the Universe, and produces many millions of gasoline or coal. It takes several supertankers where as one supertanker full of fusion fuel years. some kind of deep space settlement too far means that even if they needed to import their local thin gas floating around, they could run their habitat in an area much smaller run some numbers to show how much energy, or deuterium, it would take to keep someone long human life, including energy to grow But let's talk about a more near term effect. let alone fusion, is very handy but it doesn't reactor into a car, no seriously the Thorium build in batteries but our batteries stink, becomes a nicer option too. But if they don't, all the gasoline you ever want and without carbon dioxide. hydrocarbons are great power supplies because they burn and break from being a hydrocarbon dioxide while releasing heat energy. You can and carbon dioxide together to get hydrocarbons energy, the second process sucks it up, and backwards then you'd get out from burning this, it's easy old chemistry, it's just But if you have a basically infinite supply cares if it takes a billion joules of energy million joules of energy. Your average AAA less than a gallon of gas does, but contains gas, and way more energy is lost recharging still worth it for its portability. If you've supply of cheap hydrocarbon fuel and carbon the carbon and water right back out of the more energy dense than fossil fuels you wouldn't and batteries generally leak power too, way Nor if you've got cheap fusion do you just cheap fertilizer. The nitrogen we use as our produced by the Haber-Bosch process. With for its hydrogen and suck nitrogen from the a lot in the terraforming video, in terms we can breathe and drink. Ditto for phosphorus, our other main fertilizer, doesn't occur naturally in dense and easily and scarce, but if you've got cheap energy in a number of energy-expensive but simple And that applies to any mineral, even if you if you've got fusion. and easier as well. on a planet whose surface is more water than but with cheap power you can desalinate water can't have a drought because you never run to irrigate fields with. You've got cheap, to make greenhouses, which seriously cut water can also heat them since you have cheap power. growing space and more efficient growing space and cheap fertilizer produce orders of magnitude farming. heard of vertical farming, the notion of growing of over-hyped popsci articles, normally only don't use most of the sunlight that hits you can stack layers of growth dozens high, square foot then normal buildings which are which are more expensive than just normal But someone inevitably points out you could with modern super-efficient LEDs. That's is hugely expensive compared to other routes put in. Of course if you've got cheap fusion, next point. farming, or growing food hydroponically on how much energy it take to produce a calorie, Or for simplicity's sake, the amount of Now that's a bit tricky to estimate with numbers in the name of simplicity rather than That said let's start with the very old Back in our hunter gatherer days it took roughly That's all powered by the sun. That works in medieval times a 20 acre farm could feed more land efficient, in the vicinity of 10^14 usually operates at about 1% of total mass is about 10^17 joules per kilogram for total Meaning for hunter gatherers you need about for all that sunlight and for pre-industrial something akin to a shot glass full. totally dwarfed because while the average of energy a year to run all our stuff, the gas, that's less than one gram of fusion What about modern agriculture? Hydroponics? use that minimum amount of energy? Plants than a small fraction of noon-time sunlight. trim it down you'll find you need a space bedroom stacked a few layers high with plants to feed one person, and you can even go a that 10 kilowatts figure is about on par with out to a few hundred billion joules a year. stuff like green lawns or shared parks so at the nice rounded up figure of one trillion Incidentally I keep calling it fusion fuel use. Plain old vanilla hydrogen would be ideal, but our focus now in research is on various which is still insanely common but nowhere They fuse easier, gotta walk before you run. fusion fuel, one gram a year ought to keep space habitat so far from the sun it just of that fuel would keep a man in very luxurious tons of that fuel a year would keep a place for a year. So you could build some large preserve running for nearly a decade on what could bring in one trip. US county, with its average hundred thousand Those being closed environments where you materials, just some supertanker-sized fuel but fusion fuel, would bring enough to run Remember that because we'll reference it of the most abundant material in the Universe for a natural lifetime with room to spare. we talk about the real impact of fusion power your electricity bill dropping while ending fuels and the problems associated to burning in terms of scarcity of resources and the And this is a shift that's even bigger than agriculture, and the green revolution all So that's it for today, next time we will supposed to be doing today, and you'll know only can but would be desirable to colonize, Habitats in more detail, after that we'll and why so many of the assumptions about that in the context of a fusion based economy. them, try out some of the other videos and the video hit the like button and hit the those new videos come out. great day.