Hey there, guys, Paul here from TheEngineeringMindset.com. In this video, we're going to be discussing We'll be looking at what is current, the different types of current, how to check the ratings As well as how we use safety features to save you from being electrocuted. Current is the flow of To use electricity, we need electrons to flow in the same direction around a circuit. We usually use copper because the atoms that make copper have a loosely bound or valance shell, which is free to move This free electron is very easy to move, which is why copper is so popular. It's so easy to move that it will naturally just move to other copper atoms by itself, but this occurs randomly in any and all directions which For us to make use of this, we need lots of electrons to flow in the same direction along the circuit. We can then place things like lamps in the way of these electrons and then they generate To do this, we need to and we can do that by applying a voltage. Voltage is the pushing force. It's like pressure in a water pipe. The more pressure we have, the more water can flow, the more voltage we have, the more electrons can flow. We covered the basics of voltage in detail in a previous video. Do check that out, link's in the video So we need a lot of electrons and through our lamps to However, the cable and a certain amount of electrons Just like a pipe is rated of water passing through If it exceeds this, then the pipe will burst. Likewise, if too many electrons pass through the cable or the lamp, then they will just burst or burn out. We refer to the flow of and we measure this in although you'll usually This is represented with a capital A. For example, this fuse has which means it's rated We'll look at how we use If you look on the plugs you should find labels which tell you what the For example, this laptop charger tells us that for the device to work, it needs an input of and 1.5 amps of AC, or The charger will then convert this to give an output of 19.5 volts and 3.3 amps of DC, or direct current. AC and DC are different The plugs in your homes will provide AC, or alternating current. In this type, the electrons do not flow They instead alternate between moving backwards and forwards, just like the tide of the sea. Your electrical devices, like laptops and mobile phones, will use DC electricity, In this type, the electrons much like the flow of water in a river. We transport electricity from the power stations in and send this to our cities and homes. We use AC here because it can be transported very efficiently and over much greater distances than if we were to use DC, direct current. We can also very easily increase or decrease the voltage We've covered how transformers Links down below for that, do check them out. We mostly use DC, direct current, in the circuit boards of like laptops, mobile That's because DC is easier to control and allows circuits to be Many appliances will use a For example, a washing machine will use AC for the induction motor, which is used to spin the but the circuit board which the lights, the timers, as well as how fast the motor spins, will use DC power. We can convert AC to DC using an invertor. This is extremely common in electronics. We covered how inverters work previously. Links down below if you want to watch and learn about that also. People often refer to a river or the tide of a sea as It's very similar to electricity. A river with a lot of fast flowing water is said to have a strong current. The same with electricity. A cable with a lot of electrons flowing through it has a high current. A river is able to handle a certain amount of water flowing through it, but if more water enters than the river can handle, then the river will burst its banks. The same with electricity. A cable will burst and burn out. Therefore, manufacturers need and lamps to find out how We also want to be able is flowing through our circuits as well as being able to calculate this. We can measure this using an ammeter where we measure the flow of current in the circuit using the units of amps. So what is an amp? One amp is equal to one coulomb, and one coulomb is equal to approximately six quintillion, 242 quadrillion What does that mean? Another way to look at this is that to power this 1.5W lamp approximately, six electrons need to flow from the battery and through the lamp every second for the lamp to stay on. If we reduced the voltage, then less electrons will move and the lamp will become dimmer. If we increase the voltage, then more electrons will flow and eventually the lamp so it will burst or burn out. So to measure the current in a circuit, we need to connect an ammeter in series so that the current flows through it. Think of it like a water meter. The water need to flow for us to know how much Likewise, we need the electrons so that we know how much electricity is flowing in our circuit. Instead of using an ammeter, we're going to use a multimeter as we can do a lot more with this device. I'll leave some links down where you can pick up a I highly encourage you to get They're pretty cheap and are very useful. If we connect a lamp then we can measure the current using a multimeter by connecting it in series. If we connect this 1.5 volt battery and this lamp, which has a resistance of one Ohm, then we get a current of 1.5 amps, which means nine quintillion, are flowing through the lamp every second. Because it's in series, all the electrons in the circuit are flowing along the same path. So that means we can move and we get the same reading. If we add another lamp again, in series, the lamp also has a resistance of one Ohm, then we are adding more so the electrons are slowed down. In this case, we get a which means four quintillion, are flowing per second. This is in series, so again we can move the multimeter and we get the same reading. If we now connect the circuit both with a resistance of one Ohm and connect this to a then in the main wire, to and from the battery, we get three amps. But on the branch of each lamp, we get 1.5 amps. That's because the path for so the electrons are shared with some flowing through lamp A and some flowing through lamp B. In this example, both lamps have an equal resistance so the current is split equally. But if the lamps are of then the current is split unequally. For example, if lamp A has and lamp B has a resistance of three Ohms, then in the main wire, we get an amp reading of two amps. In the branch for Lamp A, we get 1.5 amps, and in the branch for As you can see, lamp B is dimmer because so less electrons can flow through it. In both cases, the amps in the branches will add up and are equal to the total current flowing in the main wire to and from the battery. Now, I mentioned that lamp B was dimmer because the resistance was higher. If you remember, I also said that cables and lamps, etc., are only rated to handle a If it exceeds this, then they can burn out. So restrict the amount we can add resistors into the circuit or into part of the circuit. These act like speed bumps Resistors are like putting The kink adds resistance which reduces the amount of water that can flow out of the hose. Similarly, we can add and it slows down the electrons. For example, this LED is But our battery is rated at nine volts. So if we were to connect it would just burn out because it can't handle that much voltage and current. So to stop the battery from burning out, we need to place a In this case, we'll use a 270 Ohm resistor to bring the voltage and current down to a If you want to see how much current is flowing through your then you can use one of You simply plug your appliances into it, and it'll measure the voltage, amps, watts, power factor, etc., and you can then even calculate how much it costs to use the appliance. I recommend you have one of these. They're a great little I'll leave some links down below for where you can get a So we saw earlier that to reduce the amount of and protect our devices. Another thing we can use is a fuse. Fuses in a basic sense, have a thin piece of wire inside them, which is rated to handle a certain amount of current flowing through them. In this case, this one is or 19 quintillion, 272 The fuse acts as a weak point and it's very cheap to replace. So if too much current it will burn out and and protect the more expensive You can find these and you can also find these For example, this plug built into it to protect Another device we use, and you've probably seen this is the circuit breaker. It's essentially a switch open to break the circuit if or too many electrons flowing through it. It's rated to handle a certain amount of electrons flowing but it measures this using heat or an electromagnetic field to detect and act on if too many electrons If it exceeds this, then it will open to break the circuit. If for example, we slowly then the bimetallic plate will detect this slow rising current because the current causes it to heat up. As it approaches the designed rating, it will break the circuit to cut the power and protect the cables and devices. The load can then be reduced and the circuit breaker reset, unlike a fuse. Another extremely important you touch a live component and receive an electrical shock. There will be a sudden surge in current and the circuit breaker can detect this and cut the power almost instantly to stop you being electrocuted and save your life. Okay, that's it for this video, but if you want to continue and electrical engineering, then just click one of these and I'll catch you there If you have any questions, let me know in the comment