&gt;&gt;Female Presenter: Welcome everybody. It's today to welcome Jesse Ventura to Authors Navy Seal and professional wrestler and, I wrestle live back in the day a few times. [applause] And I loved it and I especially used to love cause he was always astute and funny. And who told it like it is. And I have to say his career. He has gone on to become a well-known visiting fellow at Harvard's Kennedy School bestselling books include Don't Start the He's the host and executive producer of the And today he's gonna be talking about his Doesn't Want You to Read. So please join [applause] &gt;&gt;Jesse: Thank you. It's great to be here. a little about me, well, beyond what the nice illiterate. Not a good thing for you. [laughter] And I have never owned a cell phone in my life's mission. I think that if I survive I can put it on my grave stone and I'll be I've already instructed my wife, if I go first; it because. And I'm a dinosaur, I guess, but first when I bought my dream car back in 2003. 6 speed that is so fast today I've never floored a car like that you have to get a slot number when you get your slot number, you have to who I'd previously probably bought a half my wife and I enjoy Porsche's and she like roof. Probably fifth or sixth car and my salesman, even ask, he just looked at me and said, &quot;And I looked at him and I said, &quot;I don't want ordering a car without tires. He gave me a you see that six CD player; the thing you The reason I don't want a cell phone in my it's a manual transmission six-speed, which at the same time. So therefore, where's the when I drive that car it's the enjoyment of phone when I drive and I wanna drive it. And I can drive it and get it past 40, which I all the exotic cars. Where the hell do they past 40, but I got a Ferrari. [laughter] I mean, anyway, that aside; to the book. The where we went down basically from Abraham conspiracies and wrote about conspiracies I took a great deal of heat for it. It seems story, you're a conspiracy theorist, which in left field and all this stuff and green that, which I think is highly unfair. So in and by the way, I might add Conspiracy Theory ten bestselling list. And yet, was not reviewed of America, including the Times itself. And for seven weeks. Why? Why, if not just to Why was it ignored? You don't ignore a book I, we decided, &quot;Well, let's take a different that they can't put any blame on us for, for chose, and this was before WikiLeaks, we started WikiLeaks even happened. And we said, &quot;Let's documents speak for themselves and they're to do with any type of theory, conspiracy is reproduced. We wanted them to do that, and give you my opinion, which I do do, but so you yourself can read them and judge for to go basically through my lifetime and I'll and we progress forward to the modern time way. All the documents are legal. We didn't break anything top secret or that hadn't been And I will tell you this; this book to me I'm a six-year Navy veteran. I love my country. Vietnam veteran; I am a Vietnam veteran. And people can say, my father was a World War people can say their mom was a World War II bronze battle stars in World War II over in Africa during World War II. And not too many cemetery. So that's why the book was difficult, it stretched it too thin to a string. Because at the behavior of my country, it was appalling. that we've been involved in over the last up a word that I find ironic; I guess you're bothered me, but I'll use it. I tell it like [Jesse laughs] I believe many instances in this book, you There's behavior in this book that is as you'd Nazi's, it's us. It's our country. Now, to --who's got the damn cell phone, shut that that's a hardline. OK, I stand corrected.-- [laughter] Anyway, these documents are appalling. Our documents of the things that my country has been prosecuted, no one has ever been tried troubles me. Now, let me move forward quickly WikiLeaks is a hero because of the fact that top secret 16 million documents; 16 million see, in one year. I had to figure that must maybe, I don't know how many documents they when I was in the military as a Navy Seal, was required. And I've been a mayor and I've At what point do I lose my top secret security I was before when it comes to security? And now I'm not allowed to know things that I as a Seal. Yet, I'm the same person. But I of the food chain, or citizen of knowledge you'll see in the book that I dedicated the because he was the only person in our Congress the floor of Congress and gave, what I thought, he stated unequivocally that WikiLeaks has from the lies, the false intelligence and War? Also, the fact that I think what he said free country like ours, when telling the truth When the truth equals treason in a free society means people accuse you of being a traitor? truth. When I ran for governor, I never used I ran under the premise of &quot;if you tell the And that's true. I always remember, I was were like, seven candidates standing and a and they all walked in. They're carrying books, loaded down and I come in with nothing; sat legal pads, you know with the yellow paper she slid it over to me. And I looked at her you think you'll need that?&quot; And that's when the truth you don't have to have a good memory.&quot; and nodded. She got it, then, that I'll tell in the debates you could possibly make in on TV in a debate and I simply said, &quot;I don't of two seconds and the crowd erupted into was subsided, I said, &quot;But if it's important, honesty and I think the people appreciated claim to know everything. And I think that was more important to elect somebody now. mess and who is to blame; the Democrats and for my entire life. I am an Independent; dyed both equally. Not one over the other; I dislike both our political parties. I agree with what in this country.&quot; Now, how can we break it? only talk about things; sometimes, I give today? I believe it's as simple as the nose another one. But unfortunately, we can't see It's simple. Stop voting for Democrats and race. You're not there to pick the winner. for the candidate you believe fits your values do that, you have voted correctly. You have trying to pick a winner. And we all like to &quot;Yeah, I voted for this candidate and he won, civil duty, your civic duty. It's voting your a way we can immediately start to take our a second. I no longer believe in the third The Democrats and Republicans have corrupted which to survive will have to corrupt itself. why would you want a three-headed one? I now parties in the United States of America. Turn is what they are anyway. Certainly they can in the United States of America, here's a and put down only the name. It's too simple you don't need to know anybody's name. You Republican. If you're Liberal, you don't need By only putting down the name, would then What does John Smith stand for? 'Cause you tell you Conservative or Democrat. And then away with this stuff because you've got that ballot. The next thing would be simply this: ballot, we offer the final choice at the bottom Now, people laugh at that, but what that truly That could do volumes; huge. Cause imagine I defeated my Republican opponent for Congress cast their vote for none of the above than there with a change of attitude? You lost the Congresswoman, but you lost to none of there are elections in this country where what's wrong with that, a vote of no confidence? elected official. Imagine these ideas coming I didn't, I'm not a political science major All these ideas that this pro-wrestler comes things that as you look into this book, and because that's usually the best way. I don't like to answer questions on what's on your hope it does frighten you. I hope that it's citizens, stop being lemmings because right march right off the cliff and we don't even down of America because of our media; our branch of government. They were supposed to back to us. Well, they're not anymore. They're mouthpiece now. They're no longer a watchdog. last three, four weeks? Charlie Sheen. You a report on Charlie Sheen. Now, Charlie, he's he hardly deserves but maybe a mention at what was it a year, year and a half ago? The I almost threw up. Every day they're doing outside the hotel. &quot;Well, we're down here the hell it happened, and we're in front of I was alive in '63 when John Kennedy was assassinated. end than the assassination of our President, I just saw it the other day. Some judge made or something. That's newsworthy? It's like on MSNBC, but that's a whole other matter. to cover every day and at the time, you'll where the guy killed his wife out in the boat &gt;&gt;Unknown audience 1: Peterson. &gt;&gt;Jesse: Pardon me? &gt;&gt;Unknown audience 1: Peterson. &gt;&gt;Jesse: Pet-, yeah. That murder. Well, they to cover that and I go, &quot;Wait a minute. There's a tragic murder, but there are ten thousand so important? Now, it might be important to It's close to you. But go back to Minnesota need to know about yours? And yet, every night, dumbing down of America by our news media. we like this titillating journalism. And you show 60 Minutes. Now, let's hear me out. 60 it was the downfall. Up until that point in lost money so they would make it up in the we'll lose money but it's our job to inform.&quot; it goes to number one in the ratings. The &quot;You mean we can make money with the news?&quot; point on, the news became about making money, than information to smarten you up. Now, you of that, you now have the news; they're into that's very, very dangerous in my opinion, citizens. Tom Jefferson said, &quot;Dissention believe that and I endorse that completely. nothing wrong with holding elected officials bad government. So, I hope you'll read this that are in it. I hope you're as shocked as and if there's any in particular that you into the book, feel free to do so. I won't to be pleasure and it's supposed to be you ask me specifically, I'm not going to go into do this. I opened and closed the book, more comes from my particular favorite President And here's what President Kennedy said to survival of our nation if our traditions do danger that an announced need for increased to expand its meaning to the very limits of familiar, doesn't it? We're gonna keep you just to show it runs through our entire country's us remember Patrick Henry as saying &quot;give quote, brave quote. But he also said this. people never were, nor ever will be secure be concealed from them.&quot; And I think that words they speak are, in my opinion, very you, Google, for having me here. Lunch was that feeds you. Geez, you're like the Navy. [laughter] Well, they used to feed me. Three hots and will tell you this. I was the Naval Amphib Chow Hall for like, eleven years in a row we would have steak and lobster in the Navy. community ration type thing, because our jobs that they pay you money. And so, you have you're there. But I think lunch was 65 cents not a bad price. Of course, then again, let's the economy was much different, but so was I made 122 bucks a month; 61 dollars a paycheck. be stuck on the base the rest of the time. then, I guess. So thank you very much. It open up for questions. [applause] I'll tell you, excuse me, that's a first. never done a speech where everybody froze [laughter] Go ahead, sir. &gt;&gt;Male audience 1: This is kind of a two-part &gt;&gt;Jesse: OK, but give it to me one part at and I'm going on about four hours a night &gt;&gt; Male audience 1: Sure, sure. What was your And the second part is simply, in being a you walked away with that you've learned the &gt;&gt;Jesse: OK, my motivation and I'll give you There's a gentleman in Minnesota by the name Whitney, and when I first won governor I was was there. And they asked me the same question, I looked right at Wheelock Whitney and I said, I figure if I get to be governor, it will a member of Augusta National where they play governor, Wheelock Whitney would then take which is the heaven of professional golf. don't force me to have to become President.&quot; [laughter] And he was a man, he burst out laughing and enough, he was good enough to take me there you're a golfer, that's the same, I think, what inspired me to become governor was something may, to 1998, when our economies were robust, was making huge money. Well, the State of were getting budget surpluses. In other words, was so robust, they were bringing in more year, guess what they did? They spent it. They thought, &quot;Whoa. We brought in more money go buy extra stuff.&quot; Well , I was outraged. minute. If they brought in more money than should be returned to the tax payers.&quot; So talk radio and I was so angry, I said, &quot;Maybe yourself in a corner and of course, on talk nothing. And so, I forced myself. I had to three more robust economy years and I gave They named them &quot;Jesse checks.&quot; And I did would have gone with me all the way, but they an income tax rebate means you gotta declare which means the federal government's gonna the Feds money, it's ours.&quot; So I did it. It you can't deduct a sales tax so therefore, your check, you could spend it. Now there you're getting today. The stimulus package, The people will spend it that will go spur And she came up to me, she told me, &quot;Governor,&quot; I said, &quot;You're welcome, ma'am.&quot; She said, She said, &quot;I needed a new lawn mower. And mower Jesse.&quot; [laughter] And I was very flattered over that, this elderly for her backyard. 'Cause contrary to LA, we grass and trees, too. I gotta dig California me to run was that budget where they didn't It was our money and they were spending it Right here. Actually, we'll go closer to the keep it close to the mic. Yes, ma'am. &gt;&gt;Female Audience 1: Have you ever considered &gt;&gt;Jesse: President? &gt;&gt; Female Audience 1: Yes, in 2012. &gt;&gt;Jesse: I've considered it. I've thought the cards are against you because you'd think for President, every state to qualify should do that on purpose. Every state, you have access and when you try to get it, the Democrats tie you up in court so that by the time you passed you by. That's the system they've created like playing a football game and they get the rules at half time. That's what you're &gt;&gt;Unknown audience 2: [inaudible] &gt;&gt;Jesse: Right in, well other than that fiasco, have never, ever seen a write-in candidate ray of hope cause it happened up there, but not exactly as many of them as there are Californians you'd have a better chance. The bigger numbers would be. Now, say now though the Libertarians, of myself as libertarian--small L, not capital isn't, there should be no government. That's be at least some government; that government of will I run is this, being President is stand for freedom but you yourself have none. freedom. It's gone and I like my freedom. there I'm just a big gringo. Nobody pays, me but they don't know who I am. And I enjoy So it would require me to have to want, as to want to go back to jail. Now, not saying else honestly. Before I put my butt on the it. You better show me it's worth it this four years as a governor and six years in given to the public. And to do that job, I the people of this country are not showing in Wisconsin and I like how things are stirring revolutionary. In order for me to win, you I will change things if I won. And what would thing I would do, I would cut defense spending, win off that because they use fear on you, all gonna get killed. We're all gonna be.&quot; the world and I would bring our young men and we would defend our country from here. this empire. We're following the Roman Empire spending. If you're truly gonna balance the spending because that's the biggest thing up the world? We've got technology, you're weapons we don't need. Why do we have 50 thousand Korea; fifty thousand troops in Japan? Seems do we still have troops there? So those are radical, I guess, because I would not be doing in Barack Obama. I really thought he's a dynamic I can't tell the difference between him and [laughter] But other than that, I don't see any change and as an Independent that's tough. You're election's open, which would be 2016. And know if I would have any energy at that point an incumbent, people, very hard. When I ran governor, which opened it up for me to do [pause] know. &gt;&gt;Male audience 3: I've also got two questions 'cause I'm pretty sure you can remember the &gt;&gt;Jesse: All right. &gt;&gt; Male audience 3: First one is what color you've got 63 documents in here. &gt;&gt;Jesse: Yup. &gt;&gt; Male audience 3: I'm sure there were many documents you would have liked to have included? &gt;&gt;Jesse: Not really. It was tough enough doing John Kennedy was assassinated and murdered. want to go into any, these are enough. Digest a lapis blue metallic, which is that, I had for every color, which is a very deep, dark it and I got the most wood that you could I wasn't gonna get it at first till I came me and she says, &quot;It's your dream car; don't Well, the wood alone, because it's all hand-carved, the wood alone was ten grand. And I thought, pretty bizarre, but what the hell. Money's note.&quot; The economy, when all you hear about I got news for you, people. If we don't spend, upon spending. Spending creates jobs. You moving. If we all cut everything, now don't is in places it shouldn't be. But think of cut spending. The economy is based upon spending. The money, that's what creates jobs. Spending renew unemployment? That's because unemployment, cent of it. That spurs the economy and starts anymore. Think of it. How other way can there And besides, you can't take it with you, people. world naked, you leave with it naked. You stuff. Enjoy it. You work hard for it. That's that your kids and things like that are taken can't do nothing with that paper. Substitute that, you spend it. It's what spurs the economy. &gt;&gt;Male audience 4: So what do you think the things that the government does in our lives? &gt;&gt;Jesse: What should they do? Well, I'll put for a minute. That's always a cantankerous, me, it's a human right. If you're sick, you weren't spending all our money on these wars, care three times over. You don't hear a word people, but health care? Oh, my goodness. I'm talking the Republicans who are blaming it.&quot; Well, why don't they start repealing care? The Senate and the Congress has government-run for them. They want you not to have it, while any of them saying, &quot;You know, I'm a stand-up being a Congressman and Senator for me and that? Anybody know of one of them doing that? they're telling you, and then I'll flip it is so terrible, then are we screwing over had government-run health care since World military again, giving them a substandard else. I couldn't get him to a civilian place. changing at all. I will say, in Minnesota, in Minnesota; they have an outstanding veteran's he'd ride the bus all day long just to go thing? Well, infrastructure. Those are things we can do our commerce. Fix our roads and of destructive. Wars are destructive. Let's building up and making our country what it I hope they helped a little, but you get where hold on. Let me check my schedule so I can let me. I like to answer all questions. I up was probably, I gotta go to Fox Sports, It's LA, so you can't say miles; you gotta &gt;&gt;Unknown audience 3: [inaudible]. &gt;&gt;Jesse: How long? &gt;&gt; Unknown audience 3: [inaudible]. &gt;&gt;Jesse: Twenty minutes? OK, then. I should guess, or 2:50. What time is it now? &gt;&gt;Female Presenter: Ten of two. &gt;&gt;Jesse: OK, good. We got another 20 minutes out of here. I don't know. &gt;&gt;Female Presenter: I wanna make sure we have &gt;&gt;Jesse: Oh, yeah. That's right, too. OK, more questions and, next question. &gt;&gt;Male audience 5: So, staying on the same your Patrick Henry quote, what kind of openness [inaudible] when? &gt;&gt;Jesse: Well, I would hope, certainly, I secret when they're timely. As a Navy Seal, operation I'm going on where the enemy can and maybe a year's gone by, then bring it and they could figure out a way to make things illegal, dirty, murder and that, why would we can know. We have a right to know. We pay &gt;&gt;Male audience 5: Outside of defense operations, &gt;&gt;Jesse: What's that? &gt;&gt;Male audience 5: Outside of defense operations. &gt;&gt;Jesse: Oh, then they should bring everything I don't understand why you'd have to cover and you believe in it, is good, there's no successful you'd want it out there. You can that would be that you would keep secret. to know. It's all done with our tax dollars, they're being spent on. And that way you can electing, if you disagree, you can remove &gt;&gt;Male audience 6: So I also believed in Obama now is him completely squashed by the two And you brought up the exciting and worthwhile can't see how that could even be possible to see. And it's something that's necessary. belief of change and then saw him completely &gt;&gt;Jesse: OK. &gt;&gt;Male audience 8: Our forefathers created to bear arms, is actually the right to, if we have a right to stand up and say no. That's this two party system and really be able to again? &gt;&gt;Jesse: Let me tell you, I disagree. I don't Obama. Always remember, he who has the money no money. Where do they get their money? The of bankers in the private sector. You know he got in office and then they showed him we can do? You sure? Do you wanna fulfill to me it clearly shows that President may behind the scenes that we don't even elect only reasoning I can give to it, because as could influence me and I held true on most But it seems to me that how could he not be all this massive compromise to accommodate goes beyond the parties when it comes to who's Next question. &gt;&gt;Male audience 9: How can we get past it? &gt;&gt;Jesse: Huh? &gt;&gt;Male audience 9: [inaudible] &gt;&gt;Jesse: Well, like I said, stop electing only raised 300 thousand dollars, people, job than I spent to get it. But then again, in Minnesota knew who I am. I'll brag. I'm you have to do is say the first name and they there's Dylan, and there's, I forget. What's named Sid Hartman, who's been writing for the four people that all they have to is say are. And I was written by a writer and I was company. Yes, sir? &gt;&gt;Male audience 10: [inaudible] &gt;&gt;Jesse: I don't know. I'm just saying that's &gt;&gt;Male audience 10: So, hypothetically, if What will stop that [inaudible]? &gt;&gt;Jesse: Well, if you don't take the dirty like I didn't. I accepted no PAC money. The dollar donations from individuals and believe gonna buy you much influence. If you gave and say, &quot;You know I gave you a hundred bucks.&quot; to buy the influence with me. And I can also money, when I got into office I didn't even &quot;Tell all the lobbyists to go get new jobs.&quot; Why do you think they wanted me gone, outta lobbyist to try to convince me what's right and consult them. Certainly I don't know about too. Anyway, next question. &gt;&gt;Male audience 11: Can you say something had on this country? And specifically say &gt;&gt;Jesse: The Reagan Administration? I think really simple. If you can kill the President can't you do? And like I said, we had a confession My showed his fault. We had a confession to wasn't one word in the mainstream media. E. son, Saint John Hunt, on his deathbed. He of remorse, it was a confession of pride. operation. It was called &quot;The Big Event&quot; and it is a big event. You wouldn't call it &quot;The Harvey, who at that time headed the CIA's to kill Castro, and a guy named David Sanchez on the ground. And he's also famous for, four Che Guevara up against a wall and shot and took Che's Rolex watch and he wore it as a He would have no reason to lie. He did it many of you remember the Three Tramps in Dealey the tramps? Well, if you look close at the he has a double. Cause even his son looked my father.&quot; So, and who else for an eyewitness of your father. You think you could recognize recognize mine, father. Find a last question &gt;&gt;Male audience 11: I'd be interested if you &gt;&gt;Jesse: Oh, wait a minute. You wanted to &gt;&gt; Male audience 11: Well, just American history whether you think that the Reagan Administration &gt;&gt;Jesse: When they took out Jack Kennedy, They removed him with a bullet and from that there's a higher authority that's commanding the money. He who's got the money has the Federal Reserve. They can't, Ron Paul asked and their done illegally. Did you know that? said that there could be nobody that could They charge us interest. These people print and then charge us interest on the money. bank to the US government and the Constitution, it was never ratified because if you're going thirds of the states to ratify it on a vote. now it's too late; they're entrenched. We know, another example, quickly, of why it for, I think, it's the last 40-, 50- some back and forth, yet every Secretary of the has come out of Goldman Sachs. None of the other ones to be Treasury secretary, just if you're Democrat or Republican; your Treasury to anyway. Any final questions? Wow, you guys wrestling or-- [laughter] I usually always get a question. Maybe you &gt;&gt;Male audience 12: Sorry, not about wrestling. &gt;&gt;Jesse: OK. &gt;&gt;audience 13: It's hard enough to imagine changes, but the government is not just one and there's a huge bureaucracy underneath the top really sufficient to change things, that one person can bring changes to find &gt;&gt;Jesse: Yeah, you're absolutely correct. so big. You usually can't. You can simply the right direction, hopefully. But we're and Republicans and making wholesale change. wholesale changes can happen, but right now, you're exactly correct. You might get minute, We've gotta cleanse ourselves of these two doesn't happen, I agree. There won't be great Thank you very much and I'll sign some books [applause]