An hour-long video on a fridge, huh? Yup. And it starts with a story. Early last year I moved into a new home, and due to a miscommunication about an appliance package as well as the various supply chain issues that were all the rage back then, the fridge that I had already paid for wouldn't get delivered And I got a really good deal on it, so I was happy to wait. But since I happen to be of the mind I went out to the store with the But, thanks again to everything still being all wonky, a really basic mini-fridge was like $200 and for another $150 I could get this silly thing. So I did! And I'm glad I did! This fr - okay this isn't gonna work. [struggling noises] [noises intensify] Ok, it's on the floor. I ended up needing to use this as my kitchen fridge for about six months. While it's a bit on the small side, it's much bigger than a typical mini-fridge and served me well as a decently competent refrigerator. Yet, I've also become completely exasperated with this red... iculous fridge. Not because it stopped working or anything - it's still working fine, That was going to be the point of this video. The design of this fridge is really clever and But in an attempt to correct what I thought were fairly minor flaws, it's been taunting me with unforeseen nuances and complexities. And now I invite you to come along as I retrace my steps to turn this from a C+ fridge into a fridge worthy of a... B, probably. I'll begin with my original video premise. this fridge was clearly designed with the following question in mind: how simply (and, let's be honest, cheaply) These days, we expect a refrigerator to have and we expect it to just sit there and refrigerate However, meeting those two requirements involves and that increases the cost of the fridge while To understand why, first we need to understand A fridge is really just an insulated box that you can put stuff in which can remove heat energy from its interior and reject it to the surrounding air, Usually this is done with a small vapor-compression based heat pump. Now, you know I love a good heat pump, and the Refrigeration Cycle Powered by the Latent Heat of Vaporization but I'll keep it brief for once and just say there's a compressor that pumps a chemical By strategically controlling the pressure the refrigerant experiences, we can force it to absorb energy in one location In practical terms, one part of the circuit gets cold So, just put the cold part inside the box Well, yes! And the earliest refrigerators were literally just that. The classic "monitor-top" fridges from General Electric were effectively just an old-fashioned ice box Inside the box was the evaporator which absorbed heat energy and got cold, and up top was the compressor and condenser, getting warm in the process. This is pretty much the simplest fridge design possible. Just a box with a thing inside the box that Use a thermostat to switch the compressor on and off based on the temperature inside the box and congratulations! You just built a fridge. For best results, make sure you put the cold part at the top of the box so that, that air gets more dense, sinks to the bottom and mixes it around real good. Oh! And if you make the shape of the thing that gets cold into a little compartment it will stay so cold inside of there that you can make ice cubes! This design may be basic, but plenty of mini-fridges that are essentially this exact design so hey - it works. But as years went by, we wanted more. The arrival of frozen foods in grocery stores and it had to get bigger. At first, it simply got wider. Eventually it got so wide that it took up And before long we'd give it its own door And at that point we had settled into the It hadn't really gotten any more complex, But there's a wrinkle. Water in the air condenses on cold things. And because a refrigerator's evaporator that wet water turns to the solid kind and In ye-olden days, and in fact to this day this was just a thing you had to deal with. Every once and a while you'd empty out your fridge, and let that ice melt. Or maybe stick a pot of boiling water in there We humans are clever, though, so we started incorporating to do the defrosting for us. With the help of a timer, the refrigerator would periodically stop refrigerating A drain pan would direct that melted water where it could evaporate to surrounding air, After either a predetermined period of time it would shut off those heaters and get back to refrigerating. And now, defrosting was a thing of the past. But automatic defrost added complexity and that came with costs: first, cost. That's more parts you have to put into a fridge, more wires to run to those more parts, and more time to spend paying people to run And secondly, reliability. That's more stuff which can go wrong and as the great Murphy taught us, Faulty defrost timers, burnt out heaters, and clogged up drain lines And of course we just couldn't help ourselves now we like to put the freezer compartment below and that means we need fans to move air between the two compartments. The condenser often has its own fan, too, We've moved away from mostly mechanical to microcontrollers and sensors and relays, and now... we stick TVs in them and WiFi. For reasons. But then, there's this little red fridge. It's decided to reject modernity and embrace tradition, and not just in its retro styling. You'll find absolutely none of that modern complexity here. In fact, there are only four components to this fridge. Half of which are the door switch and the 10W incandescent light bulb. As far as what makes it refrigerate, there's a mechanical thermostat the compressor itself, and that's it. There's no fans. There's no sensors. There's no defrost heaters or timers. There's no WiFi or Bluetooth, it's just a single refrigeration circuit and a thermostat and that's it. I love it. But hold on a sec. Where is the evaporator? Looking inside we find nothing that looks like a thing that gets cold. It's just a bunch of white plastic walls and glass shelves. Same goes for the freezer compartment. And here's a puzzler: this freezer compartment There's no pass-through for air to travel between, it's just a big tub of nothing. Come to think of it, where's the condenser? This is a refrigerator, it has a compressor, Where are those parts? And how can it be maintaining two different temperatures in two different compartments with a single thermostat and a single refrigeration circuit? Well, it turns out that this thing is built like a chest freezer. When the compressor is running, it squeezes gaseous refrigerant into a long snake of a tube that travels up and down and up and down Since it's under high-pressure inside that tube, the refrigerant's boiling point has increased It will slowly but surely give off heat as it condenses, And eventually that heat is dissipated to the surrounding air. At the end of this serpentine path of tubing, causing liquid refrigerant to bunch up at that spot. The point of that restriction is to create a pressure differential, and once refrigerant manages to make it past there, it finds itself in another long snake of a tube. As before, it goes up and down and up and it's beneath the skin on the inside. This right here is the evaporator and when the fridge runs it gets nice and cold because in these tubes the pressure is low and the refrigerant wants to boil (or you might say evaporate). In order to do that, it has to get energy well, the insides of the fridge. The upshot is that it gets cold. After running for a while, you'll see the back wall start to form a layer of ice. And that's the power of a heat pump! And I said I wouldn't explain heat pumps again. I wonder how many of you just lost a bet. Anyway, the location of this evaporator... panel, let's call it, is very strategic. Like those antique GE fridges, it's at the top of the compartment so that the air The supports for the shelves are even shaped The resulting gap ensures these convection Pretty clever. Even cleverer is that the evaporator is self-defrosting. Since this is a vertical surface inside the once the thermostat satisfies and the compressor shuts off, that ice buildup will have time to melt into water and simply fall down. It collects in this little sloped drain here and gets dumped into an adorable little pan that the compressor wears as a hat. Why do that? Well, after it's been running for a while the compressor gets fairly hot, and that warmth will help encourage the water in the pan to evaporate. And just like that you've made a self-defrosting fridge, Pretty cool, right? But, I hear you asking, what about the freezer? Well, here's where things get even clevererer. This evaporator is too small - on purpose. When liquid refrigerant makes its way into it does start boiling and absorbing energy. But there's not enough surface area here After snaking through this flat section, the refrigerant line moves to the freezer compartment This extra long run of piping spread over a large surface area is what actually allows the refrigerant to completely vaporize and absorb all the energy it can before it heads back to the compressor. And thanks to extra thick walls with tons of insulation, this compartment naturally stays much colder than the fridge at true freezer temperatures. Isn't this just so clever? This is an extremely elegant way to make a single refrigeration circuit maintain (other than the compressor, of course). I would never have thought that splitting the evaporator but it does! There are, however, downsides, of course. When the compressor first kicks on, only the fridge section gets cold. It takes a while for the freezer section to start seeing liquid refrigerant, most likely because at startup the refrigerant lines and walls are so warm that the refrigerant can get all the energy it can possibly absorb from right here. Only once this section is actually cold does That's not a huge problem, but it means we need However, they were clever enough to make sure helping ensure areas near to the vulnerable door seal get chilled immediately. Still, I would imagine that having the correct refrigerant charge in here There's actually very little refrigerant in this system, barely over an ounce of R600a which, fun fact, is explosive! Yay! I'm not planning on setting fire to it so I don't really mind, but with such a miniscule charge, I can only imagine that the tiniest leak is going to cause enough capacity loss to where the freezer section basically just doesn't work anymore. Also, in case you hadn't already guessed, this fridge only gets to claim partial automatic defrost. The freezer compartment does build up an ice layer on the walls with time. In my experience this was pretty minimal, and so the bulk of its use was in the cooler, drier parts of the year. Although, because the refrigerant lines are behind plastic walls, you can use a plastic ice scraper without doing any damage, and in fact it even came with a little one for this purpose! Plus, you can leave the fridge running and maintaining proper temps Lastly, because there's only one thermostat the freezer won't react to changes such as, oh I don't know, putting literally anything in it. It's much more of a "keeps things frozen" That's not necessarily bad, but you do need to keep it in mind. It will freeze things such as a reusable ice pack or... anything you might want to put in the freezer to preserve it indefinitely but it's gonna take a very long time freeze solid and, other things in the freezer will be affected as the average temperature goes up. But hey, it's better than no freezer at all. Now, I should note that it's not like this is a totally unique fridge. Plenty of mini-fridges with separate fridge and freezer doors but this is the first time I've encountered it and I love it! Chest freezers have a reputation of lasting forever, and I think this is largely from the fact that they're so darn simple Assuming this fella was put together correctly, which... judging by some of the corrosion around these braze joints I'm not super convinced is the case but assuming they hold up and it doesn't leak, this could also just keep going and going for decades to come. But just because something's clever doesn't necessarily mean it's good. When I was using it as my main fridge, I had a fridge thermometer hanging from this shelf on the door to make sure it stayed within food-safe temperature. And I'm happy to report that it did. But... barely. It was clear that its refrigeration circuit is adequate at best - just putting in the mildly warm leftovers in a casserole dish I mean, the compressor is an adorable little thing so that wasn't much of a surprise. But it was still concerning. I wanted to know for sure just how bad so I needed to test it somehow. Actually, I wanted to test two specific things: first, how long does it take to cool down a large quantity of stuff? And second, how uniform are the temperatures inside the fridge? My experience with it gave me low hopes for its ability to chill things quickly, and with the evaporator being at the very back, I suspected But I couldn't really get a sense of how and monitoring its temperature manually would be pretty annoying. So I bought five of these things. These are temperature data loggers. They're actually quite neat - powered by a coin cell battery, You can choose how often you want them to take a reading, and even if you want a reading every minute Then, you just plug 'em into a USB port Now, they're not claiming to be the most accurate things out there but they all agree with each other within a few tenths of a degree Fahrenheit, that's good enough for me. Note that because they have thick plastic cases but for the purposes of monitoring the performance of a fridge, Oh, and just as a programming note, They're just numbers, they can't hurt you, And here, folks, is where things started unraveling. I thought this would be a simple affair. It was not. I did get the results I wanted, and they were conclusive enough. But this opened up a can of worms from which I have yet to completely escape. And now, I'm dragging you in with me! The first test I devised was to take 48 warm cans of soda and/or sparkle water, I'd also do this with a, let's call it, more serious fridge. As a matter of fact, I tested two other fridges: a relatively basic KitchenAid from 2022 and a Samsung Twin Cool model from 2012 I started here at the Studio. I put the temperature probes in different and I started logging at the same time I put in all those cans. We can see that the fridge was able to maintain temperature just fine. We can tell all those warm cans did slightly influence Whatever else was in the fridge would have stayed cold. I also want to point out that, even though they all read very similar temperatures throughout the test. Going by the "average" temperature metric in the report (which is skewed a bit by the beginning and end but that's the case for all the probes) the interior temperature only varied by about 2 degrees Fahrenheit. Then I did the test again at home. This time I started logging before I put in the cans, and then I loaded them up. Now, a quick note, the reason the Samsung is because the Samsung fridge has separate and they can operate independently or together. But, they both share the same compressor and condenser, meaning the total cooling capacity is split between them, and that means the varies depending on whether the other compartment That's why the data looks like a mountain range. The KitchenAid, meanwhile, is more old-fashioned and a means to move air between the freezer and fridge compartments so it's either running and cooling down or not running and warming back up. Anyway, here's where I loaded up all the cans of water. Honestly I don't know what happened here, Also, yes, this is very cold. I'm surprised nothing ever freezes in there. We do see the measured temperature increase it's not a lot. In some locations it's barely noticeable, This probe saw this biggest change, and it But it only just cracked 38 degrees, and slowly crept back in-line with time. Oh, and again, the temps in here are pretty consistent. Not quite as good as the Samsung fridge, but even in the door and just a few degrees above average. For grins and giggles, I placed a probe in the freezer And this huge spike here is from a defrost cycle. But now for what I'm sure you've all been waiting for: how does the little red fridge do in this test? Not. Well. In fairness to it, I did this test with the fridge completely But, uh, it's so much worse that I assure you that wasn't much of a contributing factor. This probe was placed on the top shelf next to the thermostat, and you can see it maintaining a temperature between 28 and 38 degrees. That's a pretty wide swing which is a bit concerning, but it's really the average that matters and that's... 33 degrees. Just above freezing. And here's what happened when I added all that soda. The temperature shot right up to just shy of 50 degrees. Importantly, this probe was not near the cans. This is pretty representative of what the and it was confirmed by the other probes. All these cans add up to 4 and a half gallons and that's quite a lot of thermal mass to cool down. The serious fridges manage that just fine but unsurprisingly, the rediculous little fridge with its adorable compressor struggled a lot. Compare the downward slopes between the empty to get a sense of how hard this is for its itty bitty heat pump. Speaking of itty-bitty, I snuck a probe in the freezer, too! Let's take a look at that data! Given how this fella works with its two-section evaporator, the freezer gets colder whenever the fridge is running. And since at this point the fridge has been running for several hours straight, the freezer is getting COLD. In fact, it's apparently bottoming out and -19 is as cold as it can possibly get. Prior to adding all the soda water it was which is just a tad on the high side, but with the fridge completely empty that's not much of a surprise. But I haven't shown you the graph beyond this point yet. See, here's where things took a turn for the weird. If this fridge works like any fridge ought to, this line will just keep on going until we're back down to 28 degrees. After all, the fridge has a thermostat and the thermostat's entire job is to keep its insides at a consistent temperature. And until we put the stuff in, it switched the compressor on at 38 degrees, and switched it off at 28 degrees. But look what happened about five hours into its cooling task. It stopped. We hadn't even gotten down to 42 degrees And it let it get all the way back up to 46.6 degrees before it decided "hmm, we better start cooling again." Something has gone really off-the-rails here. And by the way, this is the best probe. Probe 4, placed in the bottom door shelf, and got all the way back up to 49.1 degrees before it decided These temperatures are well within the temperature danger zone Your fridge should be at 40 degrees Fahrenheit or less. Granted, simply putting all those cans in but the thermostat should not have satisfied this early. If I keep showing you the data, though, you'll see that the thermostat But, each time it did it got a little bit colder, and it would kick the compressor back on just a tad earlier than it did the last time. So it was very slowly working to bring the temperature down, but 12 hours after I put the cans in there, And in fact was still firmly in the temperature danger zone. That's not great! And judging by this downward slope, it was still working its way back down. My original plan was to run this test for 24 hours, It seemed as though it was approaching a stable condition at this point, but I put a couple of the other probes back in for another 12 hours to confirm. Sure enough, the fridge had stabilized pretty much right at the 24 hour mark. That's bad enough on its own, but despite we were now maintaining a significantly higher And at this point I broke down and said "what... is happening?" No fridge should have its set point influenced by its contents! That's just not how refrigerators are supposed to work. Yet this fella, simply though having more In fact, that probe on the bottom shelf? Yeah, now it was consistently reading in the temperature danger zone and at this point the fridge is officially failing to do its job properly. But that's OK. I mean, no it's not OK at all, but really the whole point of this saga was to experiment The thermostat's behavior was definitely puzzling, but I decided to ignore it for now. I thought that perhaps the thermostat was and if that were the case, then moving onto the thing I really wanted to try and improve could perhaps fix it. And that was internal temperature consistency. Remember how, in the proper fridges, Well, the variance in this little red fridge was unsurprisingly worse. To quantify it, I ran a very long trial with and the fridge filled with another 16 candles. I mean cans. I put 7 cans in the middle shelf of the door, (with the 8th pineapple Bubbly can). For this five day test, I put probe 1 right probe 2 below the thermostat, number 3 right in the corner of the top door shelf, number 4 behind all those cans in the door and probe number five was all the way at the bottom in the crisper drawer. Those additional 16 cans were added warm at the start of this long trial and, They did still raise the interior temperature slightly, but probably thanks to the thermal mass of all those already-cold cans (as well as the fact that this was a third as many cans as the original torture test) probes 1, 2, and 3 only show a slightly elevated temperature at the beginning. Probes 4 and 5 showed a much higher initial temperature, but I placed them right near those warm cans. But how it handled a few more cans wasn't really the point. I wanted to see how much the temperature varied Probe 1 at the back of the fridge near the Probe two, which was just a few inches ahead We've already tied the temperature variance of the KitchenAid fridge and these two probes were almost right next to each other. That bodes well. Probe three averaged about 40 degrees, and probe 4 settled around 38.5 degrees once all those cans had cooled down. And then the crisper drawer, well, yeah that never managed to stay out of the temperature danger zone That means that there's an eleven degree and that's pretty bad. Although, if we exclude the crisper drawer, it improves to an 8 degree variance which isn't terrible, I suppose. A little mindfulness on what goes where would And besides, the crisper drawer is traditionally reserved I mean vegetables and stuff. So long as you keep it to fresh veggies and it should be fine, well then I suppose this fridge is perfectly acceptable. Still, I wanted to make it better. And I know a thing or two about tinkering. Proper refrigerators these days usually benefit The specifics of that vary a ton depending but a little forced airflow can do a great job of keeping A simple fan could, in theory, turn this from an ordinary fridge And I can obtain fan. So I did! I got some small 5V fans so I could wire them to a USB plug, stick a big power bank inside the fridge, and run some additional tests. I started with a single 40mm fan that ran at a whole three quarters of a watt. Supposedly it moves about 5 cubic feet per minute, so it should turn over nearly the entire This style of fan isn't very directional, I really just want to churn up the air a little bit. I hot glued it to the top of the fridge and pointed it at the door. That would hopefully move the very cold air and reduce the temperature gradient from front to back. Here's how that went. This probe was, again, placed on the top shelf near the thermostat. I put the fan and power bank inside the fridge And I put a bunch of stuff in the fridge for this test - lots of soda cans, cheese, condiments, water bottles, a big jar of pickles, With all that thermal mass the fridge ran infrequent and long cycles, kicking on once about every three hours. And then I turned on the fan. And what happened was really, really weird. I could tell as soon as I switched the fan And it kept running. And running. And running some more. But, that wasn't entirely unexpected - if the fan was doing the job I expected it to do, then the fridge would have to work for a while as all the thermal mass of the door shelves and what was in those shelves brought the average temperature up So at first, I thought this was a good sign! A little after midnight it finally shut off, and I went to bed. The next day, it wasn't running when I first checked on it. Good, I thought, it's probably maintaining temperature. It kicked back on a little after 9:00 that morning and I went about my day checking on it every once and a while. At 11:00 it still hadn't shut off. Then noon came and went, then 1 o'clock, then 2 o'clock and it was still running. I was starting to get pretty worried here - At 2:40 it still had not stopped running, And here's what it looked like. What. The heck. Is happening? Yes, I put a little fan inside the fridge, key word: little. Just doing that widened the dead-band of the thermostat significantly. Where previously it had been kicking on at now it wasn't kicking on until the interior reached a bit over 39 degrees and worse it would stay running until we were down to 27 degrees. That's -2.7 C. That's weird, but did we at least make the Nope! We made it worse! OK, that's not entirely true. If we look at Probe 2, which I placed on the top shelf of the door, we used to be averaging right around 40 degrees like we were before. But adding the fan brought the average down to, like, 37? So that's good I guess. You could now feel safe keeping whatever you wanted up there. But, uh, probe 3 (which was in the door's bottom shelf) Yeah. We made the top shelf more consistent, Perturbed but undeterred, I tried several different fan configurations. Maybe sticking the fan up top, was just forming a trapped loop of air recirculation So I tried moving the fan, and making it two this time, to the very back of the fridge, right to the little gap between the shelf and the evaporator, You only see one in this picture but there's another on the left side. [voiceover] The fans are indeed pointing upward. I honestly don't think that was my intention Regardless, this configuration cured the weirdly long cycle times, but as far as the overall temperature consistency the top door shelf got colder, but everywhere else got warmer. So, in other words, it didn't work. Still, I tried several more things. I got this giant fan which moves a heckuva lotta air and stuck it up top. That also didn't help. I then tried turning it around to blow onto the evaporator Not only did that not help, but it also reduced the effectiveness of the freezer most likely because all that forced airflow made the fridge The fan also took up a lot of room so that wasn't super great. Uh, maybe using three of the small fans, one at each level, near the back, No. It did not. And as a last-ditch effort, I got one of these blower-style fans. I tried putting it up top and forcing air to the bottom, which didn't help, and I also tried putting it at the bottom and forcing air to the top. Which also didn't help. In this very long data-logging session, The big spikes are from me keeping the door I didn't even bother offloading the data from the probes because I could tell I'd try a new arrangement, leave it alone for a half-hour, and check the probes. If the fans were doing what I expected, they should all more or less agree but instead That was way worse variance than I had ever seen before, so clearly the fans were hurting and not helping. So, ok, there's more to this whole thermal design thing than I figured. The convection currents made by the sheet of cold, dense air are apparently very delicate and messing with them in even the slightest of ways makes the fridge even worse. Go figure. Now, one last thing to try would be fans on some sort of a timer. Maybe a 60 second blast followed by 10 minutes of stillness but not so much to form those apparent dead spots. But honestly, I was getting real sick and tired of these fan experiments, and besides we still had the utterly baffling thermostat to deal with. And boy did the weirdness there not let up. In my test with the really big fan, the fridge just wouldn't shut off. I even adjusted the thermostat all the way down to 1 and it just kept running... and running... and running with the interior starting to dip well below freezing. At this point, I finally decided to do the thing I should have done ages ago and took the dang thermostat apart to see what the heck was going on there. See, all this time I had assumed the thermostat was, y'know, here. This is the dial, it's pretty much halfway between the door and the back wall, so why not just take the reading here? In hindsight, the 10W light bulb that gets nice and hot is a pretty good reason to not put it there but that hadn't occurred to me just yet. Through the gargantuan effort of removing a single screw, I finally discovered that the thermostat has a remote sensing bulb. In other words, It's shoved within the walls of the fridge and going down, So I yanked it out. Turns out it went quite far down. The sensing bulb ends up sitting somewhere around here, though without cutting away at the walls I can't know for sure. This felt pretty silly to me - why take such an indirect measurement? The point of a fridge is to keep its insides at a certain temperature, and somewhere inside the walls of the fridge is not quite the same inside To fix this utterly baffling situation, I drilled a little hole in the thermostat housing so I could poke the sensing bulb out of there Guess what? This also did not work and broke the fridge in a new and unexpected way! Now, the fridge just wouldn't shut off. Ever. Not even set to the least-cold setting, and not even once the measured air temperature inside was below freezing. I even tried wrapping the sensing bulb in a frozen teriyaki sauce packet, but the fridge just kept on running. Why would that be? Well, I noticed when I pulled out the sensing bulb Now, it's metal so it's gonna feel quite cold but, like, it was frosting up a bit. That suggested to me that where it lives actually likely due to its close proximity to the embedded evaporator lines. And this finally explains all the weirdness I had been seeing. The sensing bulb is almost certainly so it is influenced by ambient temperatures. After all, putting in all those warm soda cans But since its capillary tube travels so close to the embedded evaporator lines, it's probably getting directly chilled by them when the fridge is running. And, if the thermal conductivity of the capillary tube then the thermostat will think it's colder than it actually is. That alone isn't really a problem. The thermostat could be (and in fact is) That's why it wouldn't shut off when the The real trouble here is that we have a sensing bulb which is sandwiched and something that gets much too cold after the fridge has been running for a while. With still air and contents that are all down-to-temp But this balance is extremely delicate, and if we change any variable at all this scheme simply breaks down. For instance, when we look back at the soda test data, we find something puzzling. The fridge had nearly identical cycle times when empty and when full. Prior to adding all the soda, here the fridge ran And here, 24 hours after being loaded up with all those cans of sparkle water it again ran for 33 minutes. That's not normal. It simply shouldn't be behaving like that, With more thermal mass inside, it should need But it doesn't. In fact, it just doesn't bother trying to You can tell because these spikes are less spiky. Once it managed to get down to about 42 degrees, the fridge settled back into the same relatively fixed And since it wasn't back down to temp yet, Oh, right, except we never actually made it What seems to be the case is that the thermostat is influenced far more by likely because the sensing bulb gets cold And with more thermal mass inside the fridge, the temperature rise back up to whatever point so the net result is the more stuff is in the fridge, the less overall time is spent running, which elevates the interior set point. Fantastic. Speaking of fans, the fan experiments likely wreaked havoc on the overall set point because the new airflow patterns, kept tipping the balance between the internal chilling effect More airflow near where the sensing bulb sits and diminish the importance of the internal chilling effect. Also possible was that in the tests where the internal chilling effect itself was diminished But honestly, I'm not super confident in those explanations. All I know is adding the fans made really weird stuff happen and it's not gonna help. So now... what do we do here? This fridge clearly has far more weaknesses than I thought. The temperatures inside aren't that uniform despite my best efforts. Its weak little heat pump means that its competence And the thermostat is just... awful. I mean, it did OK when it was my only fridge It could be that every time I put leftovers in there it got way warmer than I realized. Well, the thermostat it came with might not be any good... but who's to say we have to keep it? Not me, that's for sure. And for a whole twenty bucks I got this fella here: an honest-to-goodness temperature controller. Yeah it was cheap but it's actually pretty decent Which is plenty for this little fridge which normally pulls about 1.2 amps. You simply supply the controller with line voltage, wire whatever load you wish to control across the appropriate switch, and finally wire in the included temperature sensor. It'll do heating or cooling, which is good because, due to how the freezer gets fed refrigerant, to ensure the freezer actually gets properly cold. All I needed to do now was figure out how to wire this up to the fridge. I figured it'd be pretty simple since, ya know, this is a pretty simple fridge Under this cover lies the compressor terminals and - surprise! support components! A whole two of 'em! First we have an overload protection device which will cut power for a minute or two in case the compressor rotor becomes locked up, which might happen if the compressor tries to start which might happen due to a brief power interruption. And then we have a PTC motor starting device which upon power-up briefly allows current through the compressor's start winding to get it started. Big Clive did a video on these things But anyway, that's it. These two support components, the compressor itself, and the thermostat are literally the only four electrical devices in the entire fridge (and if we count the light bulb and door switch, we have a whopping six). To get this working, I just needed to bypass and send power through here instead. After a quick look at the amazingly included schematic on the back of the fridge, it appeared that live, ground, and neutral were sent up and the thermostat just sent power back down to the After a sanity check with an ohmmeter to confirm this is what happens, it was a simple matter of cutting and taping off that red wire, then running a new hot wire through the controller's cooling terminals Of course I needed to get the temperature sensor wired in, so I drilled a hole through the fridge behind the crisper drawer. I didn't think there would be any refrigerant lines here and thankfully that was correct. Then it was just a matter of configuring the controller's settings and deciding where to put the temperature sensor. To bring things full-circle, Now, this was all a pretty rough-and-ready so don't judge me too harshly here - So let's get to that. Before I could turn it on, though, I'd need to let it sit upright for at least an hour. You need to do this for anything with a compressor-based fridge, freezer, or even a water cooler. If you've ever wondered why, well this black ball-shaped thing is just a sealed enclosure for the actual pumpy parts of the compressor and the electric motor that spins them. You can hear it knocking against the enclosure when I rock it back and forth. And since the pumpy parts are made of metal That comes in the form of oil, and the compressor The system relies on gravity to keep the oil in the right location, and so every refrigeration system with a compressor like this When I had it on its side, some of its oil will have drained out of the enclosure and turning it on in that condition It might also have tried to force a big ol' Small amounts of oil end up getting pumped but it eventually makes its way back to the compressor. And really, that's all you're doing by letting it sit upright for a while - you're allowing whatever oil might have ended up in the wrong places A good hour and a half later, I switched it on and, happily, I configured the controller with a set point I didn't yet know for sure what that meant - Three above? Or perhaps three above and below? The only way to know for sure was to watch it. So yes, I spent a thrilling evening watching my fridge Right when the display read 38 degrees, the fridge shut off. [click, and the compressor slows to a stop] And it switched back on at 41. [click, compressor spins to life] So that's how that works. Next, it was time to repeat the soda test. I loaded up all my probes again and monitored the fridge empty for a while, then in went the soda cans. As before, it really really reallllllly doesn't by which I mean 14 hours to dig its way down to the set point but... it didn't stop until it got there. These little blips here are me checking on the temperature probes a few times to make sure the new controller's displayed temperature but had I not opened the door this would have been an essentially straight line This is how a refrigerator is supposed to behave! When it's too warm inside, it kicks the compressor on. And once it's cold enough, it shuts it off. That's it. It shouldn't matter what you put in the fridge, it should just do it. And in this data, we can actually see the widening of the cycle times now! It's honestly less significant than I thought it would be but the triangular shape is a bit wider with all that water in In numbers terms, empty the fridge ran for and full it ran for 33 minutes and spent 37 minutes off. Those numbers probably aren't exact because And by the way, there's no reason the fridge With how cheap microcontrollers are these days I'm somewhat surprised that this was built with a mechanical thermostat it's where they put the dang sensing bulb If it actually measured the air temperature inside the fridge, that'd be fine! But instead they buried it deep within the and made a weirdly bad fridge as a result. But I've fixed it. And I'm happy about that. And guess what? The manufacturer seems to have fixed it, too. They continue to make plenty of these silly retro fridges but this particular model has been discontinued. They sell even smaller ones than this which if you're looking at gettin' one of those be wary of its thermostat. Hopefully they ran the sensing bulb somewhere more sensible. But when we get up to the size that this fella is, because they got their wish to become a real fridge! With automatic defrost and everything! We can even see the air pass-through between the two compartments. The evaporator is now entirely in the freezer, However, these new offerings have gained pretty much Which, to be honest is probably mostly a good thing, but I still really admire how incredibly simple this design is. Yes, it's still not great at chilling large quantities of stuff, and the freezer has its own peculiarities But so long as you remember its limitations and are OK with them, It makes me wonder if perhaps they had just gone that extra step they would still be offering this model. It was really quite inexpensive for such a large fridge. Still, while I've made it miles better than it originally was, there's still room for improvement. For a start, the designers may have been correct It's apparently warmer down there on average which honestly surprises me. Warm air rises after all but I guess enough warmth from the compressor (which would also explain why the crisper drawer Hmm... I wonder if a fan down by the compressor on the outside might help with that... [from off-camera] And speaking of too warm, I mean, for soda, it's fine but I do want this maintaining food-safe temperatures. And hopefully, with the accuracy afforded to me with the new controller, I can get it to just touch freezing in the coldest parts of the fridge. I'll also need to properly calibrate the Right now I think it's reading a few degrees too high and those seem pretty accurate. I'll still have to play around with the I probably need to encase the sensor Right now it reacts a little too quickly to changes in temperature, so leaving the door open for even just 30 seconds is liable to Luckily the control features a compressor lock-out timer but giving the sensor some extra thermal mass Oh, and the freezer. Earlier I mentioned that we'd need fairly long cycle times for it to work properly. Well, the three degree temperature differential appears to be just fine, hovering right around zero degrees - Now, I don't remember why, but I started (I think I had this in the top door shelf) and then remembered I wanted a probe in the freezer so ignore the front bit. Oh, and after 14 hours of running continuously, Good for it. The last thing I'll need to do is tidy up this wiring. This was hastily thrown together for testing I'll button that up a little better off-camera. But I want to keep the actual temperature controller where I can see it - I'm thinking of just gluing it onto the top of the fridge. Which makes me kind of annoyed with how the And then, there's one more optional thing: It might be worth revisiting the fan experiments in control of the temperature properly. Maybe I actually can get it to a much more uniform temperature in there, and I won't have to worry about that changing the set point. However, the original tests still had those apparent airflow dead spots, so the drifting set point was only one issue. As I said before, perhaps running the fan - and now that I think about it, But I don't know if I'm ready to try that again. If I do, it'll be on Connextras. Now, you might very well be asking, why was I going through all this trouble in the first place? Well, honestly, I really like this little fridge! I like its silly retro design. I like that it's red. And I like how simple and earnest it is. I've held onto it and brought it here to the studio because quite frankly I no longer trust the Samsung fridge that's here. It had a clogged drain line a couple years ago which was not fun to deal with, the screw covering the evaporator panel has rusted quite Plus, when I was in there, I found pretty severe discoloration I just don't know how much life might be left in it, and besides it's kind of loud, the door seal is constantly getting moldy, the way it defrosts in the fridge compartment leads to a bunch of condensation getting on everything every time that happens... it just bugs me and I kind of want to get rid of it. I don't need that much of a fridge here anyway, The only thing I'd be giving up is some freezer space but... there's a chest freezer here, too, so y'know, there's that option. The red fridge will save a bit of energy, too. Though, not all that much to be honest. Mini-fridges tend to have fairly thin walls which means they don't have as much insulation and heat intrusion affects them more severely. However, it doesn't have defrost heaters, and when I tested it with my Kill-a-watt I found that it used significantly less energy It only used about 650 watt-hours per day in my testing \ compared to over 1000 on the label. So that's interesting. Anyway, I need to end this video. Did I think this would turn into a months-long No. Absolutely I did not. I thought I was gonna show you this silly red fridge, see how much of a temperature gradient it had in there, then fix it with a fan and praise the power of convection. But everything went right off the rails and now we're here. Which leads me to this warning: If you should buy some of these data loggers - Knowledge is power but sometimes... ignorance can really be bliss. chillingly smooth jazz ...exasperated with this ridiculous fridge. Not because it stopped working or anything, I did not emphasis "RED" enough. Without any effort on our... [big snotty throat clear] what's happening with my nasal voices? What? ...monitor top fridges from general electric were essentially.... I just, it's effectively. Hmm!! ...cools down varies depending on whether cooooohhhhwwwa. Hwuh. That was almost a burp. That would hopefully for- ...and how they ran the capillary tube. [thunk] If it actually measured the air t... yeah what was that? Was that the cat? ....fridges from General Electric were efflec.... Efflectively! Alright! So... did you make it to the end? This video absolutely got out of hand. But, it was also among the most puzzling and frustrating things I've gone through, in no small part because had I just investigated the thermostat earlier, Anyway, the fridge is running, so I better go catch it.