Big and tasty for just a You did your thing, dawg. Remember the dollar menu? Well, you may be hard food item that actually $17 for three Filet-O-Fish Are you kidding me? I don't have the money to Don't you just miss the actually cheap? When looking at fast food the average prices for Happy Meal and a burger But I paid even more than Here are the prices at fast offices in Midtown Sales are performing much and that's due in part to The Consumer Price Index average increase in prices Fast food falls into the category. Think anything a counter and taken to go this category are up nearly That's more than full Think sit down restaurants increased nearly 24%. And it's also more than increased 19%. So why are fast food prices go from here? Can I please Can I get a foot long? Yeah, just that. Between 2022 and 2023, the packaging rose around 11% Chipotle. Still, as of culprit. Food is about a item. So even as those costs particularly given the the California and some of the wage laws and just is that that wage pressure The fast food labor market competitive for employers companies struggled to fill In 2022, the number of service restaurant category levels. During that same service establishments grew As things normalize after higher amount of job coming in to fill those Compared to 2019, the goes towards paying for limited service restaurants Shack, where it has restaurants like The Darden Restaurants, which garden, Longhorn Grill. In order to maintain the expand their operating consumers late night snack earlier breakfasts. Fast food restaurants need the day part, and so as potential employers, they enticing. And the easiest the wage rate. And companies are passing customer, especially as raised the minimum wage for In an obviously, despite there's a lot of other I think when you look at service, first of all, check average. And so any operator passes on just by percentage increase on it. From December 2023 to average for a quick service $18, which is 4.5% more last year. That's a higher both casual and fine restaurants are decreasing price gap. How is this Chili's three When fast food is so It could be because we don't Please. I was born for this. It has created a shift in Perhaps before they were now they're still only they're going there eight Right. And so you start to falloff because they're the same amount, but frequently. Although prices for fast remained strong. brands, which owns KFC, have all seen revenue surge A lot of the sales are still that's driven by price as visits. A lot of investors are now positioned to drive growth can obviously only push long. And that for so long may Mcdonald's missed earnings quarter of 2024, and an one of the most sobering giant. Others, like KFC and the same consumer pullback. We must be laser focused on good entry level price In the markets where we're business is outperforming. In some markets, however, opportunities to strengthen $100K plus income households and still spending at kind we see a lot of the behavioral changes is the And so your lower end have enough spending power that they were doing when additional Covid stimulus Remember the $5 footlong at Well, that's a thing of the me over $11. The bad news about going to go down. The good slowing. Prices in general across the come down once they've been One of the reasons for that Once they're reset higher, down and reset lower. To combat the decrease in chains are relying on apps In its 2023 fourth quarter that it plans to invest primarily in 2024 to app experience, McDonald's its loyalty program from 90 day active users by 2027. They haven't been able to do advertisements that go on their consumption companies will be able to the return on investment of those promotions that they because they can tell I Tuesday, and they made a Thursday. The value offered by fast customers will continue to a purchase, and it may industry reacts going Restaurants still take consumer visits. And as continue to drive growth dollar perspective, I still good news for the Two burgers 447.