Transcriber: Nydia Bejarano I started teaching in the University of Puerto Rico, and I quickly became frustrated. I love my job, but I was frustrated with myself, And it wasn't anything On paper, they were learning English. I would give them tests, and they'd know everything about pronouns, You name it, they knew it. And they could prove it However, when I tried to have when I tried to have I would get this like ... (Laughter) And then they would go into what I call They would go, (Imitates Porky Pig's stutter) (Laughter) It just wasn't working. And I was frustrated These young men and women, they're going to go in which they are expected They're expected to analyze, and they have to do it in a language in English. And I wanted them to be there. And what happened was that I started and after a while, I developed I call it &quot;Teaching English What I did was I moved away and I developed a system in which I divided the class The first stage, I give and this BS detector (Laughter) is a fully functional, portable that they install into neurons. And whenever they detect BS, which is very frequently, (Laughter) the alarm should go off. &quot;BS, BS, BS, BS.&quot; (Laughter) How do I do that? Well, the BS detector has three parts. Part number one I have my students learn whenever they listen to a TED talk, whenever they listen they should ask For example, Is the speaker People who know what they're talking about They can say who, what, where, Now, people who are - will run away from specificity. They will not be specific because And when people are not specific, I point out to my students Either they do not know and there's nothing wrong there - And if you don't know, That's a human trait. But sometimes people are not specific because they don't want you to know And now there's an ethical element So, the first thing that they Is the speaker comprehensive? Is she looking at Is the speaker looking at When you say something, you are responsible If they're talking is there replicability, is there experimental data And once I get that part where they will ask specific questions I go to the second part. They should detect logical fallacies. And logical fallacies are mistakes And we all do it. For example, (Spanish) Every time I forget my umbrella, it rains. Do you really think there's a relationship between the weather Wouldn't that be fantastic? Because then this four-year drought (Laughter) all we have to do is get Californians and then it'll rain, okay? That's a non sequitur. That's the name of that fallacy A happens, then B happens. And then you assume that A caused B. Maybe, maybe not. You have to check. Another logical fallacy And ad hominems are nasty little things because this is when Instead of attacking your arguments, They attack your integrity. And unfortunately, political debate When somebody is loosing an argument, instead of sticking to the merits they back off, and then they start Ad hominems are terrible, but they're very useful in the hands And another logical fallacy is argument from authority. This must be true because somebody who knows And I have my students learn how to identify at least five or six The third part of the BS detector This was a wonderful scientist And this guy said, &quot;What do we do And he identified five or six skills, And for example, the basis of all learning And you need that for everything. You need that for everything. However, if you stay at that level that's not deep thinking, that's not deep thinking at all. And now, you have the situation where you must find out Does he know his stuff in detail, or is he merely repeating that somebody gave him? Again, questions will help you identify whether you're dealing And here you analyze, That's where I wanted to take my students, but first I had to get Most people feel that it's wrong And no, that is not true. If we want to grow as a person we need to be open to change our minds because as the world changes, And I'm going to quote He made the following observation. He says, &quot;Progress and those who cannot change their minds So, I had to destroy that paradigm No, you should know all the questions and not be afraid to ask them. Once they have the BS detector we move to the fun part of the class. Here we watch TED talks, we read essays form the Internet And we don't use textbooks. We use whatever is happening in the world. For example, this semester, Four million people Why are they running? Where are they? More than 1,000 have drowned That's current events, and I want to make my students aware And we also speak about And here we have a wonderful Joseph Stiglitz is a world-class economist And this guy wrote a few articles and made specific suggestions. So, we bring that to class, We compare with what local politicians And that fosters And most of the students are so involved that they're not really aware because the central thing is, &quot;Let's talk. Let's check out what fulana wrote. Let's check out what fulano said. Let's compare notes.&quot; Now, I have two ground rules for this noisy, semichaotic Number one: ad hominems are not allowed. Under no circumstances or attack another person's integrity. You must respect everybody's freedom Rule number one. Rule number two is ideas are not people. Ideas do not have rights. So, if somebody says something dumb, including me, the professor, you should feel free And that's not only a right that we have - to question ideas it's maybe an ethical responsibility because a bad idea, if left unchecked, We forget, for example, that Adolf Hitler How did this man get control of one of the most Well, easy. His crazy ideas were not So, by the time German intellectuals that this guy was taking them he already controlled he controlled basically everything: And he just had too much power. It took a world war So, when you see a bad idea, especially a bad idea that can hurt people you may be morally obligated &quot;Mnh-hnhmmm. That's not a good idea.&quot; Okay. So, in this component once we have that out of the way, And the third area is reading and writing. And again, I have to remove that making mistakes is somehow bad. No, it is not. It even has a name; So, if you want to learn a language, you must be willing because that's how you know So, I try to create an atmosphere where my students to say whatever they want to say, And it's interesting because at the beginning of the semester, I usually get two &quot;Profe, a mi el ingles no me entra.&quot; &quot;I mean, I just can't deal with English.&quot; And these same students - when we're in the heat of the debate, they want to take part And then they start leaning to the left and they ask the magic word, (Laughter) But then when they say, the other student says, and then there's peer tutoring, I don't even have to wait because I saw what happened. They look at me. Once we have eye contact, And then Julio starts speaking in English. And then he goes into a little bit (Laughter) He starts going, (Laughter) When he goes there, sometimes he feels a little embarrassed, and I say, &quot;No, no, no. Go on.&quot; And then he says, (Spanish) &quot;Of course. You want to use Spanglish? Use Spanglish. Tell us what you think.&quot; And they realize And nobody is going to judge them. Nobody is going to grade them worse. This is part of the language Now, there's something interesting. Before I adopted this method, It was like, for example, trying what a special plate, And you describe the food. You say, &quot;Oh, my God. It tastes like this, and the texture is like this.&quot; And can you really share the experience Somehow it doesn't work. So, now you say, &quot;OK. I want you and memorize the recipe.&quot; And will that do the trick? No, no, it won't. The only way of experiencing the texture, the taste is another way. And I want to take my students that language is a wonderful - And there's no way by simply memorizing rules, by concentrating only on grammar. And once these students are comfortable the exchange in the classroom Finally, when we get we go to the part But again, form is secondary to content. I want them to get their ideas, to get their feelings on paper. And once they do that, then they go into stage number two So at first, you focus and then you focus on form, not content. This is where you correct and you look at the mechanics And they write summary-reaction papers in which they concentrate and then they worry about the form And I always stress And I'll prove it. You take Stephen King, These are world-class writers. Well, these people, they send them to the editorials. In the case of Stephen King, Viking Press. And in Viking Press, (Laughter) And this professional nerd is going and he is going to make Now, who has the fame and fortune? It's Stephen King. It's not the expert on grammar. So, you can learn grammar from a machine. You can have somebody but you cannot fake content. You cannot fake the passion that goes into a good short story And my goal is for my students Learning is a painful process. You have all these narratives Everybody around the world And these narratives dictate But sometimes, these And that's where we get And cognitive dissonance basically says, &quot;Oh, my God. I can't believe that - But now you have to make up your mind. Why are you rejecting that new idea? Because it's wrong or because you have So, you have to explore your narratives, look at whatever is causing and then form your opinion, an opinion based on reason, So, hopefully at the end of the semester, my students will take I want them to understand that there's nothing wrong They should be intense question-askers. They should resurrect that was a three-year-old and was driving mommy crazy or daddy, And, &quot;Shut up. Don't ask (Spanish) Children should be seen and ...&quot; You know the rest. (Laughter) So, we beat the curiosity and by sixth grade, they will not ask a question And my job, I believe, is to resurrect and say, &quot;You know something? Ask questions constantly, Ask them.&quot; And you should fear You should fear the people Because growth and maturity, come from our ability to say, Why should I believe that?&quot; People that are smart, are not afraid of questions. Sometimes you just because they're so passionate or what they believe that they will just flood you That's what I think I want to close this talk &quot;I believe my job as an educator is to open as many doors while allowing them the freedom to decide if and when they want to cross I want my students to learn how to cook, And that's how I teach English Thank you. (Applause) (Cheers)