6:00 a.m., at the foot of Vesuvius. For two centuries, thousands of Neapolitans have come to This Madonna is the protective mother the powerful Neapolitan mafia. This is the first time that a camera to be the place of pilgrimage of one criminal organizations in the world. Among these pilgrims, some mourn Mothers, sisters or wives for their family members. Women go into a trance. The prayers become hysterical. A ceremony under close surveillance. Around the sanctuary, police brigades patrol the area. In these stifling processions, argue with each other with knives. Come on, let's go, let's go. The fault is new figures city's historic families. Young faces, ever In Italy, the mafia is In the crowd, Pietro Yohia, It really is a shitty culture. Religion has nothing to do After 20 years in prison, cocaine trafficker was released in 2012. He then discovered that the rules had Unfortunately, in several neighborhoods ever-younger camora. It has been renovated, Yes, violent young people, murderers. It happens like that in neighborhoods These processions usually of the most respected mafia leaders. But now, more and more Like here, under this balcony. We passed under the balcony There are no more men, Before, this celebration was held The age has changed, but the mentality Pietro tenses. Around the processions, Clan leaders are also present. There are these guys, baby bosses. What ? You may not see them, Believe me, they are there and not Baby bosses, Behind these childish faces and some would actually be two young to take the reins of the camora. Now I'm What I did before But today, what they're doing In Naples, corners of the city and they do With hundreds of arrests thought it had finished with the mafia. Error: a new monster is born. New shoots. Get out. For your safety, step back. I call them jackals. They are barbarians. For six months, new mafia which is terrorizing Italy. A mafia in which the oldest - The is a phone and a gun. At the slightest trouble, The elite brigade that hunts them. Those who go to prison are It's non-stop. Meet those who defend them Rule number one: never And enter the juvenile prison violence unknown until then. If an old man comes along while you're doing my I won't even think about it. From the north to the south of Italy, face of organized crime: the baby mafia. Naples is one of the jewels of Italy. Its light, its typical little streets the city has become one for European tourists. But behind these images worthy another reality hides, because the city At the central police station in Naples, this Here, an entire brigade is The Falki, falcons in Italian. The policeman who How long have Two years? 20 years? Now, for them, it is the baby Not too complicated, this job in Naples? Let's say that Naples is A little attention, please. Come on, it's briefing time. Like all his colleagues, Mario comes This was also the first Commander Serpico. Okay, close the door. Well, guys, since the end of the week is coming, there will be people in the street. I ask you to keep your eyes open, or snatch thieves, but above all, If we see a group that suggests they we arrest them. We check their identity, And above all, we see if they We must reclaim The questions? Come on, let's go. Zino with me, the others, At the start of the evening, alleys of downtown Naples, the It's a little after 7:00 p.m., They arrived, they passed, they had their A vehicle attracts the Falky's attention. Where is this idiot going? A German sedan for over EUR60,000. For the police, these young people The style, the car. Here, everything that You. No, I'm clean. What is this money? What is all this cash? It must be a nice tobacco bar then. The tattooed guy there, he got into Now he says he has a tobacco. This bastard, have you seen how good he is? Have you seen what he's riding in? It's true that it's a beautiful car. Even if I work for three years without And he says he has a tobacco bar. Yeah, yeah, a tobacco. That's what I told my boss, It's okay, I didn't do anything serious. Back up, back up. For your safety, step back. To fight the baby mafia, The information that the falques their database. We need to know who is are on the territory But could this group We often imagine baby With faces. Yes, it's true, No, no, no, no, it's No, not like that all the time. How old was the youngest The youngest was under 14 years old. He was 13, to tell you the truth. 10 p.m. The Falkis are more It is at this time that most of the Score-settling boosted by As evidenced by these We hear baby bosses I'm going to identify the back, Accite the female dogs, you kill me. Mevilles, bombs and accelerates the creatures. Amma, s'ermina tutta familla. Ando, China, conluge, gira your family. Anton, china with him, vest of a furcil. There is a log which is sparade, Gripette, I bagrante. The police are heading towards Forceccella, a district in the center of Naples. This is where the Falkis have The controls are tighter. Young people are often armed. There we are in Forcecella. It's a neighborhood where crime is right in the center of Naples. The problem here is that there are lots fighting each other and sometimes Is that why you do all these if they don't have a weapon? Identities, check identities, there. What do you do in life? I'm a pizza maker in San Mateo. Are you a pizza maker? Pizza maker, then. Yeah, I take care of the preparation. I never saw you there. Are The fakes who will carry out All night, no downtime. After midnight, all groups of young people every street corner. HAS This time, you are outside. There, these are young teenagers who are causing You have no papers, no license, nothing. If I want, I can fine you The Falkys do not hesitate to put in order to keep them away from the street. A little further on, the police come The man is under 30 years old. He is surrounded by new members, Okay, for this group, you're going to stay there. With them, you have to take We need to be more careful. The Baleze is a boss there. Identities are checked, They are aware that the fight There are always new members. Those who go to prison are So it's a never-ending job? Well yeah, it's non-stop. There are always new elected officials. Today, there are over 100 That's three times more than in the In Naples, these young bosses abound. But it is at 800 km/h from here In Milan, the economic capital of the country. The parties, the golden youth, the investment banks. The city has become the the sprawling Calabrian mafia. This organization of cocaine Seizure of 215 kilos of pure cocaine. This mafia set up shop At the time, the godfather He is then the most Known for his violence and he does not hesitate to kill or kidnap In 1991, he was sentenced to 26 years and criminal conspiracy Released in January 2017, Take a picture of me, come on, go ahead. But look at this, what a shame. But it didn't go as planned. In the meantime, he had But you have nothing to give a damn? Why don't they break my balls? Rocco Papalia will never traffic Cesare Giuzzi is a Milanese journalist. His specialty: dranguita. The day after Rocco Hey, this one is jogging. He expected to photograph He was surprised. They're all young guys, They came, let's say, to pay homage to him. A tribute that was That afternoon, these young people These are young people who came to They do what they want. Because we are facing a generation destined to become bosses. These are guys who have established themselves. Forced into retirement, fallen godfather ends his days. The one who takes us there She is a municipal councilor The house we are going to This is where Viroco Papalia, Unfortunately, in our city they are all from Calabria. This morning, she agreed to show us where he ends his days. On one condition: don't hang around too much. But surprise, He's coming. Okay, what do we do? I suggest you go to the town hall It can become dangerous. I'll explain to you later. Can we meet him? Besides, we are without the police, You understand, I hope. He has already had We decide to approach him anyway. We know that several young people He disgusts me. What I found when I There is no more respect for anyone. These young people, they only think about buying are there with their T-shirt. There's nothing serious anymore. When I came out, everything had changed. I didn't find Look, I made a mistake, I paid. Now I want to live Good day. THANKS. If the old godfather is so bitter, it is because his place at the top was taken by someone close to him. His nephew. Domenico Agresta. According to the police and the anti-mafia prosecutor's office godfather of Drangueta. Nightclub, he is the heir of the clan. A godfather. One presumed by one, Unlike the former mafiosi, He doesn't hide. On his Facebook profile, which as a friendly and smiling young man. Dozens of photos and videos on whom we can count. In recent years, they have become seemingly smarter. They try to blend They camouflage themselves. Some even have jobs construction companies. They all keep a low profile are in the cocaine trade. Domenico Agresta is officially the While hiding in front of his gym, Hello, are you Domenico? Hello, my name is Raphael, How are you ? Of course. By the looks of it, Oh, absolutely. Come on, we'll We follow him moderately reassured. At the time of this meeting, was on parole. He has just been convicted a second time link him to the mafia. Okay, now He, over there, is my friend. Throughout this interview, at the head of the dringueta. I tell you, is and I will never spit on it. It's true that this name is full Excuse me, I don't want to put you but you've already been convicted, right? Yes, I was 19. Okay, OK, but let me understand correctly, But for the dringueta. You know, this thing, let's say the mafia. And how long did you spend in prison? Fortunately, I only took two years. In theory, I should have done 15. You know, I have my life now. I play sports, I wear jogging pants, Okay, I have one last question. Do you still have No, I'm not a delinquent. charged because I was a detainee. The one who would be the new He would have understood the errors of the ancients. Today, it's business above all else. Now they are very careful. In the 90s, in Milan, for the equivalent of EUR100 worth of cocaine. Today, certain investigations have of cocaine was not paid for. The culprits were forgiven, The key phrase of these mafia families is: Come to an agreement. When we reach an agreement, There is no shooting, And above all, there is And that is fundamental, given the La Nouvelle Dranguita, shedding blood in order In Naples, it's quite the opposite. That's not all. A new phenomenon, we call it She's the innocent one. They came from below. They were walking up the street. And then they started shooting. Unfortunately, my son, It was September 6, 2015. Jenny, 15, came home from sports. He stops to greet friends. He is shot in the head. There were eight of them. Eight on four motorcycles. They fired 36 or 37 shots. All these gunshots in the square? All in this square and with Jenny has become a symbol. On this square where he lost his life, now pays homage to him. I call them jackals. They are barbarians The judge who tried to understand called them the angel of death. This blind violence is After several weeks of negotiations, we were able to obtain a meeting with one of his young sponsors. We could meet up to talk about it, right? Wanted by the police we must meet lives in hiding. Several conditions to be received We still equip ourselves The meeting takes place in Forcell, He receives us in what he Enter. This is an apartment where we An apartment without furniture. Just this huge screen. Okay then, what do you want to know? I can tell you everything. At 30 years old, this young boss has already spent for extortion, but also for his Can you explain Les Steses, do you want me to explain? Just this morning, and I sent a team to two There is one, it was under It's a boss who is against us. Now he will A baby boss who orders raids and Me, do you know why I'm here? I shot a cop. For what ? Because they came to tried to arrest us. I am a gun lover. Since I was a kid, We climbed onto the roofs and But guy, for me, for training, But why? He He's good at trying guns. Racist and revolting comments, but Close the window, close the window. The man is tense. A new You know, between us, we're trash. Some guys have already come A month ago, they It was two guns. It was here, there, under the building. That's how it is, I'm And here it is war. One day you live, one day you die. But how will it all end? Impossible to know. For the moment, we are here in our We hold our own streets, And if we meet, here, it's Baghdad, Guys, keep your eyes peeled. It's a dangerous town here. Score-settling galore, an alliance that shatters to end in clan war. This outbreak of violence within Drugs. Is there a problem? No, he doesn't want you to film there. He doesn't want us to film These are the most in-depth on the That day, he met one of the Luigi Giuliano. In his youth, he was feared Like current baby bosses, tattoos All have a symbolism: his older brother bites from an overdose. Luigi Giuliano could have become il capo But the thing was, I threatened everyone. The first time I was The owner of a nightclub And I was arrogant I set fire to his establishment. And subsequently, For him, it is obviously due to I know this well On weekends, I would get high. During the week, I would go to school You know, when you do drugs every you completely lose your mind. And then you live in an illusion. But what we must not forget dig two graves. One for the one you killed In the end, you dug two graves. In his time, cocaine use Today, it is a generality. These are kids who have They are more normal in their heads. These are kids who can't even Because They have become In fact, they want everything, right away. At over 40 years old, Very few baby bosses slip Today, clan leaders have These of the old clans, but in fact, The result is that these guys Either they are arrested A cancer whose metastases are all over the city. Street by street, neighborhood by neighborhood, join the ranks of the camora. Is it Mariano? Oh no, it's Marco. This one should be out in a few minutes. To find out who is who and who does what, have put in place a unique system. An interactive map that lists geographically and day by day. Well, to recap, have you Is that right? Very useful local information From the start, we clans operate where they live. And the idea is also to encourage to lend a helping hand. And it works. The Neapolitans inform In this city, almost every This card works well. We already have 900,000 views. This map is very useful. These journalists With the Baby Mafia, put an end to discretion. Make way for exhibition. Facebook and Instagram It is on these social networks that they their omnipotence. For example, they take a table They film it and publish it. But the members of the rival clan 45, yes! 45 bottles of Dom Perignon. They're going to blow it all up. In several police investigations, video exchanges can go so far as to Not to mention the fact that this baby is exalted, completely exalted At the top, been a hit in Italy for three seasons. Its title: Gomora, would arouse numerous vocations. Like in this amateur video where a young repeats a cult line from Gomora. Anap, as they say: If you look at me wrong, For the producer of the series, fiction, not the opposite. Gaetano Divaio receives us Gomora is an award-winning series, that Gomora arouses vocations. I think it could happen, but you The reality is much higher than Gomora. The young people of Naples don't It's the opposite. It is they, these young people, who teach For him, this series has above all In Napoli, no In Naples They were all against it. The associations, the church, the community, For them, it was absolute evil. Personally, I fought And why did I think And in a way, A phenomenon which is the heyday which has also been able to take advantage of it. Naples and its region have This is the The one who is most popular I think if I make it, I'll be A star lawyer far from the red light districts There you go, this is where I play billiards The defense of baby bosses, You know, these are You should always try to manage It's not simple. And to survive when you are the lawyer in the The first rule, The second rule, never trust them completely. And the third rule, is to do your job well. This morning he is preparing So. This tenor Baro will open all the of the courtrooms of the Naples court. I'm going to switch to sport mode. The defense of young sponsors now takes up I have to run all the time. I go from one trial to another. Well, from time to time I get It doesn't matter, I And today's client would be Afterwards, I will explain to you how Okay, master. It's good. Already sentenced to 16 years for homicide, prove his involvement in the camora. This is a crucial hearing Facing them, the prosecutor To confuse him, of the police officers who participated in the investigation to the stand. We have a first drug sale at 9:35 p.m. It's a place where In the report read by this police officer, filmed by police cameras. The young man would appear there. Tell me, these cameras, Which ones? The ones who filmed me When was that? In 2014? So they have some videos. At that time, Well, we'll have to find The prosecutor wants to use all Well, I say no. Ok, master, I follow you. We will oppose. Everything seems to overwhelm the accused. But as is often the case, favorite techniques: And luckily, No, no, no, no, no, He must say: I don't remember According to the Italian procedural code, He does not have the right President, excuse me, This person who is a witness does not have before him. President, the defense is a formal objection. The president will accept The prosecutor is beaten. Counsel, question the witnesses chosen by the prosecution. It is a process that has reached consensus. We do it all the time. It is an insult that you bring The police officer's testimony is invalidated. The hearing is adjourned. Alright. Thank you, Mr. President. The lawyer won a good round. His client greets his family. I kiss you all. At the end of the hearing, So Master, what is the assessment? I am satisfied. It was an interesting audience. Let's say that if I had to draw a parallel won by the defense of the accused. This is a blow Come on, now For those who cannot afford the journey ends here, on this island, in the Bay of Naples. Nisida, one of the oldest transformed into a prison for the Homicide, robbery, Nisida prison is a concentrate Around sixty detainees aged Ornella is an educator who firmly believes in redemption. So there we are This is a building The objective of this establishment: into society with In this prison, inmates are They can wander Everything apart. Come on, come on, come on, let's go. Here we go, I tell you. No, above all, don't film. Okay, okay. Come on, let's go. It's French television. Madam, your umbrella is so beautiful. Madam, can I give them a kiss? No, no, no, no, no, Shh, shut up, shut up, shut up. Here we go. These overexcited inmates Now I will Despite this, Ornella will try to benefits of Italian-style reintegration. Hello everyone. Everything is fine. Very good, ma'am. Still very good. Great. It's a wonderful element. After baking, Come on Luciano, Don't look at me like that, you. What do you have to say to if you are too permissive? Let's say that in Italy, juvenile prison, the programs I don't think We try to re-educate, and in There, what I see are kids. Children who, for the most part, Violence is in their skin. That's good, that's bad. Go ahead, film this. Come on, big guy, show. It's a kalash. The hake at 47. He has a kalash and even a grenade. A grenade? Yes, look, a grenade on the stomach. Why is it tattoo? Because I like it. He is Daesh, a Daesh fighter. An admiration for barbarism Most of these baby bosses Here, teachers What is the capital of France. Brussels? No, look closely at the map. Where is France? No, that's Africa. And that's America. No, you have to look at Europe. Do you see her? Yes, it's there. I don't know. In terms of education, how Very low, very low. Almost non-existent. When I say low level, our language. They don't know what is north, They don't even have the ability I never went to school. I stopped in CM2 How do you see your life I will always come back here. I will always come back here. I'll be worse, I'm sure. Madam, what do you believe? Un Un, I barely know him. The other was in my stomach What do you think do it again. So I ask you the question: You can't say that. In Naples, the reintegration of members These two inmates work separately. They are in solitary confinement One at 16, the other barely more. What are your plans When I go out, that I won't go to work. When you take this path, How much did you take per day? 700 euros. 700. And the old mafiosi, do No, no, but no. For what ? Boom, we shoot them. We no longer have a brain. That's how it is. Like I told you, business and he talks to me, If he stops me, I'll kill him. That's how it works in Naples. Here, the numbers are clear. The recidivism rate for Italy is currently in the process of finding a baby meufia phenomenon.