ah Hahaha ha I promised. I believed the truth later. Ahhhhhhhhhhhh ah Ahhh ah ah Quick Go! Ahhh Go Go Go Don't block me. Don't block me. Go quickly, do you hear me? Go away quickly, don't shake Hurry up, hurry up, people are staying here, leave, what are you doing Hurry up! Hurry up! Don't Shoot You guys disperse I don't want to kill Chinese people. Step back, the gun in your hand The US 775 can hold up to 7 rounds of ammunition. If I'm not mistaken Your magazine should be empty now. You are wrong This gun has more than 7 bullets when fully loaded. I just wasted a few. There is another I didn't expect a girl to gamble with guns like this. But you forgot I fired before you could get it. So now the magazine is empty. If you don't believe it, you can try it. He's out of bullets. Get out of the way Get out of the way Back Back off Don't shoot. Don't shoot. Back Don't Shoot Don't go over there and fire the gun. Walk, walk, back away Back Back Back off Back Back Who are you? Back off Spare my life, Southwest! Don't move. Back off. Back off. lady Leave me alone Brother, if you go now, you will die. Listen to me Listen to me This person was not taken away We caught the person. Why should I give it to you? who's done I remember you If you don't go, you should save your energy. If you want to go out, you can spend some money. I can help you For your mother If you don't spend money, you will die. Let me out Spare my life The boy is just a prisoner of the Jade Clan. I'll go to your prison. I'll forgive you. Good driving it's okay hi mother hierk hi Hey guys, open the door. Come down Muzi Who is this person? Catch a thief on the road So forbidden You want to be an official? I'm telling you You can't be an official without money. Go, go, go. you Please go in. you Look, I brought you in. I'll tell you everything you want to know Oh, please let me go. I have old and young children at home. I You...you can't leave until others are rescued. Ah no no no Take it quickly Why good Walk stop What does Muzier do? Hey, a thief. Don't you know that the people locked up here are beggars? Know What do you do? Ahhhh Ahhh stop Don't shoot! Be more ruthless Who are you? ah Yesterday the girl was in prison number three Prison No.33 Um How about the store manager? Director, you are here to check on me in the middle of the night. There are several of us brothers You can rest assured I saw that woman today. A beggar called and said he needed to be refreshed. If there is any mistake You and I are going to move our heads. Our prison is heavily guarded. Not even a mosquito can fly in. What about people? Is the mother coming? I just caught a little head on the way here. That's not right. The criminals who raped had to go through my hands. How dare he do that? Bao, go quickly! Here Open the door Open the door Who are you? Who asked you to come? Stop asking so many questions. Just go out and talk later Untie your belt I asked you to take off your clothes, did you hear me? What's going on? Something seems to be wrong How is it? Is it a big problem? This old car should have been replaced long ago. Ah, what does the little Japanese want to do at this time of night? Why Aren't they also going to Longhua Prison to kick people out? It is very possible alarm Everyone search now Can't go any further We need to find a barred window. Get out of the iron window Go back, maybe you'll end up in a dead end. There are police inside If we go there, we will be beaten to a pulp. Then let's go back and hide. superior Come on, I'll kill you. Uh-huh Um Why Where are the people? Run away Relax Hurry up Hey You two come upstairs to exercise, come with me, yeah Why all the fuss? The robbers robbed Muss 2 He's a prison robber. Is there still a road ahead? Hurry up! Go up quick Hurry up! Hurry up! Sao Sao, tell me carefully, yes, yes, yes, I don't believe it Where can they hide? Listen to me Let everyone in the cell show me that they covered it up. Building No. 1 No. 2 building I don't believe it Catching turtles in dreams doesn't work Hey hey hey this Chase and stop This side Okay, come up. Let's go this way. dream up Chase Big Brother quick That's it. Come on up. No, my brother, what should I do? With his skills, he'll be fine. I'll send you up first and then I'll find a way to save him. Hurry up, there's no time left. Listen to it with eyes wide open. Can't let them get away Go back over there quickly. Look over there. No, I have to go to my brother. We are all in danger How to save your brother But it's no use. Wait till I tell you. Listen to me. Give me careful My own brother Give me a number I thought you were out. You two came out without taking me with you. brother Good Kung Fu You're not bad either. If today You can't stay here for long Come with me Listen, open your eyes and watch closely. Haven't found the problem yet? Almost there. Almost there. Brother, thanks to that rope Otherwise we can't get out. Don't ever say that. You saved my sister. You are our savior. This has been with me for many years. Take it. Brother, you see me clearly. Take it. It's not a sign of respect. You really don't need it. Okay then, see you later. She is your sister, right? Thank you for today. It's ok. Sister, check the car. We're leaving first. brother How to call If we are destined to meet, we will definitely meet again in the future. See you later See you later Japanese Who is it? The mayor has fixed it. Good go You go, they have guns. No, I'm already dead. Listen to me I'll cover you and you go first I won't leave, they have guns. Son, you can be a human being and think about it. You come with us What's going on? Ah, hurry up not good Car Let me go Come in Be an assistant Let them put their guns down you are nothing Thanks, brother, get in the car Stand still, brother, please get off the bus Let's go there quickly. Never mind. No need to go. Why is it over? Thank God The person should not have fallen into the hands of the Japanese. elder brother Get up and change seats with this brother. I'll take you to the hospital. Can't go to the hospital Don't worry about me, I'll go on my own Brother, you are hurt because of us. We have to take you to the hospital. Can't go to the hospital The hospital is too strict about keeping gun sausages. Take him back and let Second Father treat him. Second dad is also good Right, I don't know yet. How to call brother? Don't you want to know? Today's battle You and I are brothers. My name is very young 28 What year Fang My brother is 28 years old. Oh, yes, yes, 28 years old. My name is Gao Tianxing This year is the year of determination Then you are older than me From now on I will call you Brother Gao My eldest brother too. My name is Qin Xinlan New Orchid Pair She is my father's goddaughter. My sister. I don't know your sister. Let's go, yeah, yeah, yeah, hurry up and get in the car Gone Ahhh Change a song Lei Dayou changes a song Huh Ecstasy hahahaha Why You're fucking worse. How could you not hear it? Replace the root for me. Get out of here! Grandpa Don't be angry. I'll buy you some oil to sing. Get out of here, sir. What the hell are you singing? I can't sing either. Change someone Ahahahaha Boss Boss Boss Boss Ah who is it Who is Hey, he's the one who told me to get out of here Get rid of him I don't want to live anymore Boss Boss Are you still playing, brother? No, no, no, boss, please spare my life. Don't worry about this, brother. I'll just sing for Master Liu Save what you want to sing for later. Sing it with me. I'll see you here later. My knife doesn't have eyes. Yes, yes, sir, I dare not I dare not give myself to you Let's go. You think about him carefully. Hello Something's up? Excuse me, is Mr. China Throat here? He is busy. Hey, wait a minute. Thank you. I've troubled you twice today. Please help me, big brother. I really don't know how to respond Brother, please tell me Miss Manyou Aren't you scolding me? I'll be happy if I can make friends with you. That's my big brother. So you agree I'm afraid my brother will find it troublesome How come? It's getting late I'll take you back. You don't have to go by myself. It's okay. Get in the car, slow down. Slow down. Sit down Gone parking Hey, don't go yet, wait for me. Okay. I told you not to pick me up. I'm not a child. Obey orders and follow instructions My sister-in-law told me The little guy kept kicking him in the stomach. Kicking again, so naughty Yeah, it must be a son. Let's go back and see our son. As soon as the person came out, he started fighting near the custody. Let those who are unfriendly to the Empire of Japan in the newspapers Good people have a good memory. yes Reporters, don't use your guns After you succeed, throw yourself in Don't let others see I'll wait for you at the street ahead. Yes Yes Wait a minute Kill a rat and ask them both to go. You two go. Slow down. Sit tight He said hey He hasn't come yet. Still here. He left. Didn't I tell you that? When he is done, please tell me. Oops, you see, I forgot Is it the one just now? Right Then he went to his new wife. That's all. Go fast Um, who is this person? Don't chase after Hongwu Yaoji with him first Mr. Zhi, please Eating a meal is such a big deal Mr. Chi The Jinjiangchuan Hotel is heavily guarded tonight. Please rest assured Um Don't look at the time. It's still early. The Chi hasn't moved yet. Fat Chang We are familiar with the structure of the Jinjiangchuan Hotel. Not very familiar yet Rather than doing it inside It's better to end it outside. Yeah, let's go find a good place first. The palace has not stopped eating Let's settle this tonight. I can sleep well when I go back. It will be over in a minute. I'll take you to a good place to open your eyes. What a good place snort You didn't even tell me about that big restaurant I can't tell you either. You'll know in a moment. Boss pays the bill The situation is clear. Come and have a drink. oops Not yet ready to take action Go go go drink drink I let you Are we here too early? Probably not. Maybe the nature has arrived Didn't you say 9 o'clock? There's still 20 minutes left. Looks like I'll have to waste my time fighting tonight. Let's go, let's go, um, come grab, grab, grab Hey, this way please Come here, come here Why are white shoes coming? Humph, he's coming to die. No one can stop it What the hell is this? Ahahaha Our You can't blow it. I've already lost my temper Come on, brother, let's drink this glass of wine. It's all done. Be careful. Come on first. What do you want? Bring me a bottle of red wine Medium rare steak Okay, that one first. Okay, no? It's cooked. Hurry up. The guests are waiting. That's good. That's good. Hurry up, guests are waiting Quick Why You send this dish to the VIP room in front OK Hurry up! Opening hmm Walk ah When should this meal be eaten? Don't worry, it won't be long. Wait for him to come down You lead people to suppress the people upstairs with firepower Let me take care of these people below. Little brother, right? Hahaha ha General Turn around Who are you? ah What country are you from? You can't control I should wake up ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah Come on, boss, how many brothers are left? Retreat, retreat, retreat quickly! Retreat quickly! ah Hahaha Hahaha Master Ahhh Ahhh We are out Mr. Chen is fine. Get out of the way, I'm going to kill Shi Meiting Hey, he's my type. No one can move Who are you? The one who wants Shi Meiting's life Feixiang, stop fighting. The police are here. Are you going to see the King of Hell? Haven't seen it several times Damn it, you ruined our good thing. Who sent you? It's none of your business snort So unlucky early Ahhhh Hahaha Ha ha ha This bastard has no gratitude at all. I can understand his feelings. The colonel had foresight. If I hadn't arrived an hour earlier Also arranged The man in white shoes is acting as a shield on the first floor We are in big trouble with the surname Chi Friends of the Empire of Japan It's used to serve us. Walk Go to Sit down and talk Your coffee, sir. Miss, your coffee Please take your time. Thank you. Stop talking, Mayor. I just heard gunfire outside. I knew this operation had failed again. Sister but Don't be discouraged Fortunately, we still have a chance later. Know that you have made mistakes The one who learns from his mistakes is the wise one. He can turn lessons into experience This time It was broken in the hands of a man with a butterfly knife. Butterfly knife Brother Tianyi, I'll take you to a nice place for a drink. Guaranteed you like it When drinking, there are Let's go inside and sit down. Visit your home oh snort snort It really is the teacher's house. It's full of books. Hey, lend me a few books tomorrow. I don't have anything at home. Drink some water Oh, what did I do today? It's really frustrating and cowardly. Plans don't change quickly It was just an accident. It's not an accident Someone must have arranged this today. There are two groups of people downstairs One wave is from the old pool. One wave is killing the pool without stopping Including us, there are three groups of people in total I was about to rush to the second floor when the gunshots were heard upstairs The two groups of people started fighting. you mean It's not just the Japanese who are protecting the pond snort There must be something else Shanghai is not Mei Ting's sphere of influence Logically speaking, there shouldn't be so many subordinates. Could it be that they were hired by the Japanese? It's hard to say These people are all old and bad. Not like an ordinary bodyguard I see A person on the road It seems we underestimated Chi Meiting's importance in the hearts of the Japanese It seems we underestimated Chi Meiting's importance in the hearts of the Japanese Isn't it? yes Yes, the bathhouse is on the first floor. I'm busy outside You guys are having a good time in there. Oh, everyone. Today, a distinguished guest came to this pond, so Please, everyone. Who wants to change position? That's not a distinguished guest. No, no. They are all honored guests. They are all honored guests. Please be tolerant. In this way, everyone can take a shower or a tub bath. The bath fee is mine. It's all free Hey, please be tolerant, please be tolerant. Hey sir, this way, this way, what if I don't leave? Don't bother, dear guest. These are the Japanese, you can't afford to offend them. Hey, can you just pity me? Hey, who said not to leave? Do you want to die? Why Hey you are Tian Xin brother How is it? Please go outside to pick me up. Hey, my clothes Go fast Let's go! I live there Come on, boss, get yourself a bridge meter. Come here please Okay, okay, look, give me a bowl and you'll come. Come on the weekend and I'll have a bowl too. Boss, give me some. Not a big bowl It's not that I'm picky about food. I am used to simple food. I don't like the Japanese devils' crappy food. That's true. We want to eat at the restaurant. This Akiyama Kazuo still doesn't let Okay, wait a moment. Our rice noodles are very authentic I guarantee you'll want to eat it again after you've eaten it once. Ok, yours is ok, it's so slow. Walk slowly. Boss, a bowl of rice noodles The test paper facing that building over there Rice Noodles Yuxi's small pot rice noodles Mengzi's Cross-Bridge Rice Noodles It seems like someone is shouting &quot;rice noodles&quot; outside. Yuxi's small pot rice noodles Cross-bridge rice noodles in Mengzi It really sells rice noodles. What do you say? It's like rice noodles. Haha. When I heard this authentic shout My saliva is about to drip, isn't it? Oh, OK, please wait here for a moment. I'll buy you a big bowl now. Go go go go haha The rice is falling. The greedy cat is about to take the bait. The curtains moved just now good Hmm, what are you doing? I'm going to buy a bowl of rice noodles for General Chi no You said no, it's no use General Chi said it would be useful Colonel Akiyama has ordered Mr. Chi can't go out for dinner Why haven't you come out yet? Leave. If you stay too long, they will remember it. Isn't that right? Find another opportunity Walk Who says no? Who says no? Mr. Chi What do you want to eat? Can you ask the chef to make it? chef If the food your chef makes is edible I'm still thinking about the things on the stall. Can't go? Get out of the way I don't know how long I have to wait. broken He brought his own bowl. Don't leave if you're selling rice noodles. etc. I asked you how you do business. There is money coming to your door, but you don't even try to earn it. Hehe How can people who live in this kind of place eat rice noodles? Stop talking nonsense and give me a big bowl Hey, sir, my rice noodles are absolutely authentic This rice noodle is not authentic My host ate it in one bite. I tell you Give me enough material. Don't worry, just wait and see Hey, boss, you gave me less money just now, did you know that? Oh! Let's talk it over. What's wrong? What are you doing Did you know that you gave me less money just now? Give me less money You just gave me less money. Why would I touch your money? It has nothing to do with you. Give me back my money and I'll tell you. Give me back my money If I owe you money, why don't you just ask me to pay you back? Why do you do business like this? If you want to talk, please talk nicely. Is there any integrity? Harmony brings wealth Harmony brings wealth Pay back the money quickly Sir, please don't be angry. Harmony brings wealth. Give me back my money, and let's talk it over. Give me money to save face Do you know who I am? I don't care who you are Don't stay here Give me back my money and ask me to tell you again who it is Can't I give you the money back? Ahhh Sorry, there's a gun. Lord, please don't Can't I give you the money back? Okay, sorry, sorry. Please Dare to play tough with me Is Xiao Er all right? Okay Well, just add the soup to this bowl of rice noodles. Adequate amount of millet thread There's no need for this. We'll calculate it together tomorrow. Thank you, boss. Please walk slowly. Why is it not enough? You have to eat this while it's hot. When it's cold, he'll let you drink a sip Boss, this is not appropriate. Have a drink. Come on, boss. Come on, alright Why do you need to check this? Come and take a closer look I can tell you that there are bombs in here. Bang General General General General Rice Noodles is here Oh, I smelled this fragrance as soon as I entered the house Oh, this little Japanese is quite suspicious. Everyone coming in and out must be checked. That's right. Be careful and you will be safe, hahaha Oh no This is the taste, this is the taste, right? Hahaha I asked them to come back tomorrow. Oh, that's not necessary. Feed a little food. There's no need to annoy Akiyama Kazuo. He is a smiling tiger, hahaha Hahahaha Why Shi Meiting won't refuse to eat, right? Look Just take out a bowl. The only thing you are entitled to eat is soup. Besides, if it wasn't for Chi Meiting Won't let me drink the soup first. Right? This time Chi Meiting is asking for trouble So greedy To the greedy Mr. Tex Your shelf is too big. Hey, why is there no movement? Will there be any surprises? If you don't show your sincerity, I will wait for the special envoy for another day. If I don't see the envoy tonight, Chi I can only apologize. snort Can we be sure that the person is dead this time? Everyone heard the explosion. He must be dead. I don't want to analyze I want facts According to people's very The coal-eating boat's subordinate Bury the explosives After taking the big bowl of rice noodles back It exploded soon after. It should be foolproof I hope so This idea It's really brilliant Eat Meiting is Yunnan people It's normal to like rice noodles People don't eat rice noodles The human intestine trick is a good idea. It seems that human intestines are not only sharp And the brain works fast This is unexpected indeed. This time Chi Meiting is doomed. Unless God refuses to take him But the district chief just said I'm worried too Any external opinions?