It's already difficult to conceptualize the even harder to wrap your head around how much enough energy to power between 750,000 to a our largest wind farm is the Alta California, which has been That's impressive, but even the Alta Farm in China: a 20 GW colossus and Gansu also happens to be one of China's poorer, to the world's biggest wind farm? Can we replicate why is a wind farm large enough to power I'm Matt Ferrell ... welcome to Undecided. This video is brought to you by So, where is the Gansu wind farm if you know your Chinese geography, then it's if you don't know your Chinese geography farms that comprise it are all along If you remember our video on the Kubuqi Renewables mega-project, then you might be feeling a twinge projects are in China's far west and northwest and windy. That makes them great for generating Projects like this also require a lot we're talking approximately the desert tends not to be the meaning you can acquire a lot of space for Another commonality between Gansu and Kubuqi we're not talking about a single green energy connected into the same network. Though Kuqubi was outside of Yumen City and Jiuquan. This is why So, Gansu and Kubuqi have a lot in common, but one of the lowest in China. So how did one of the of it has to do with that Gobi-adjacent location. and like we said a moment ago, Gansu is a The project was commissioned in 2008 as part of to reduce its dependence on fossil fuels and and still is, the number one emitter of CO2. To to be second in line in terms of pollution, is 280% higher than that of the United States... the sheer amount of air pollution China was issues, so China was (and again, still is) This sort of thing takes a lot of capital, and Of course, the Chinese government provided including subsidies and loans. Notably, an arm the project. The European Investment Bank about $43.6 million) for the construction farm to the Chinese electricity grid. Put a don't put a pin in an electric cable. Anyway, construction on the farm proper but it progressed relatively swiftly, with November of 2010. At this stage, Gansu comprised wind farm in the United States has about 50. of about 5,160 MW. Just two years later, the total MW. That was roughly equivalent to the United As of 2021, the farm has been fully boasts over 7,000 wind turbines covering approximately 39,000 For Americans, that's roughly 426,500 that's bigger than one standard Belgium. exceeds 20 gigawatts, enough to power Basically, it's a massive achievement, and a cornerstone of China's renewable quote from Jiuquan's Communist Party &gt; "We finally made it -- we turned the of treasure. We are building a To help coordinate the many individual wind farms integrated wind power coordinated control and it's very cool, but not unique to Gansu. We've projects like B2U's energy storage facility in and Emerson offer similar systems. However, the for most of its life the wind farm was producing the smart management of the coordinated to generate and "ship off" an extra GW stable overall. Yet, as of 2015 up to Which begs the question: why was Before getting into that, there's one thing you you have access to when you're traveling. By trip to Vancouver, where I used today's sponsor, my IP address was back here in the US to stream feels like forever and get so much use out of of incredible features that you can install on But ... that's not all. Even shopping services will you can change your location to make sure you're their VPN service to unlock things like Surfshark personal details, like passwords, have been leaked a special deal ... use my code UNDECIDED to get offers a 30-day money-back guarantee, so there's using Surfshark for years and love it. Link is and to all of you for supporting the channel. The Gansu wind farm is an achievement -- it faced many challenges. Some of but others might sound familiar Power generated by Gansu in 2012 was in today's money) per kWh. That doesn't that the power from nearby coal-fired power per kWh. This means that the wind power just It also doesn't help that northwestern China is known for its rich coal reserves. Again, this industries have a strong financial incentive to a significant economic driver in China, and so the political weight. Also, the coal industry is a from coal means less coal mining jobs, which To make matters more awkward, there's just not energy-hungry industries currently located in very successful at generating electricity, Without enough local demand, that energy mentioned curtailment issues and opening According to the South China Morning Post: produced by the province's 9 GW worth of wind for it. The same year, Beijing issued a strict ban and many local businesses built on the wind These issues with Gansu really serve to underscore channel. With some energy storage, they might be or maybe even store it and move it is of course aware of this, and China so that and some transmission lines have Speaking of, recall that Gansu is located in the most of China's industry and population centers For context, the total population of the Gansu the city of Shanghai. Of the major Chinese cities, and that's still about 950 miles (or The great distance isn't the only challenge either. Western Gansu is a desert, and like the Qilian Mountains, which likely and maintaining the transmission lines. Another problem with long power lines is long distances without losing too much process of building several high-voltage to send more than 30 percent of the While this is a solution, it's not necessarily an lines weren't cheap to build nor are they cheap and over such a great distance this transmission is a major factor in the transmitting some of that green energy better solution than letting it go to Because it's so difficult to get the power to the to come to the power. Huawei in particular was to build large data centers near the farm. And desert real estate is cheap, and there's But the challenges of Gansu persist. The the harshness of the desert environment it's just not very appealing for those On the other hand, Gansu Governor Ren Zhenhe region is being "overwhelmed" by the number of been able to corroborate any such deals, not public yet, or haven't crossed over to The biggest challenge for Gansu might be yet population centers in coastal China are continuing size. We've covered some of these giants on this Gansu's productivity with those closer, bigger Despite these (sometimes let me remind you that the Gansu wind the ban on wind energy investment despite Covid-related hiccups, the efficiency China hasn't stopped constructing renewable them to where they need to go. Fossil fuels now generation capacity. That's pretty stunning fossil fuels made up two-thirds of their construction on another transmission project like The Gansu wind farm (and its cutting of green energy megaproject I'd like to and elsewhere around the world. The project but I think we can learn from the The key takeaways are that project developers so much energy is already there...easy... or that needs to go grows along with the power needs and hopes of local communities with greater I'll be posting an in-depth exploration of the Ultimately, I hope China doesn't let these energy momentum they're accruing. And I learned from Gansu and apply them to going to hit our 2030 or even 2060 climate But what do you think? Do you can and should replicate the success of what me know and be sure to listen to my follow conversation going. Thanks as always to and a big welcome to new producer,