if you can't tell, I got a new like wireless mic now maybe I should start doing ASMR videos, that'd back to my apartment, and happy pride month I month, then pride month, and it's just like 60 if you're celebrating Pride this year, I actually see my friends my high school friends graduate walk their high school grad four years ago, and graduation was the same weekend as DC Pride, so I fun. if you're going to Pride this year, make sure water, you're staying safe you're staying masked now where I think the amount of anti-trans, being passed introduced and just like affirmed is terrifying. if you ever need resources for yourself have it linked in my description box. but yes, happy is coming up, and I can't wait to see everyone throughout the month, throughout the year. anyways, a video like this in a while. I feel like I do them a FaceTime call with y'all ;-; I really love videos you randomly, and I understand that like some lot, I understand lol and I am just a notoriously bad get to the place in our relationship where I'm text is off-putting to some people, because the way and thoughts running through my head. so, instead of I like text multiple times in a row, which I feel I'm just able to explain my reasoning and thoughts we're gonna do today! I'm going to answer some of gave me some inquiries on my Instagram story should! because you can ask me a question in the I'm not on YouTube) but yeah without further drinking water because I am a hypocrite I don't *sips* yeah,,, H2O! first thing that a lot of people ask happy to finally launch it on YouTube! I recently outfit for today! reveal in three, two, one... can you got my first tattoo - it's like this little carrot brother whose Vietnamese nickname is &quot;carrot.&quot; but I think of like this baby carrot tattoo and then like, butterfly wings by an artist named Marley here in woman-owned, an aapi-owned (like Vietnamese American-owned actually) parlor and I love love her artwork. she's done like abstract butterflies in the past, of just molding her artwork to my body. when it bit a stigma when I was younger, but now living art that is made by someone else exist on so damn happy that I have this abstract butterfly meaning, I think it's actually really relevant to earth were briefly gorgeous by ocean vuong... and if book??? no, I actually just picked it up [again] because the down because it was too real and traumatizing oop and vuong opens this book with a butterfly metaphor always associated butterflies with immigrant and family of immigrants and refugees :D but you know, by BTS ;-; so sorry Mom, I actually haven't told my mom I'm so sorry that I didn't listen to you when you course, as you know I started going back to school. been pretty fun! I think the gap year did what my passion for ;earning and for my career. and a experiences, and of course I can! the first thing is that if you want to take a gap year, whether save money, you want to you know take a break for it doesn't matter if you're doing it like out of or before you like enter the workforce,, like do it ! took away from my year off. and in a way, it wasn't speaking opportunities, I had internships pretty like doing something, you know what I mean? but about myself, you know, be introspective, think about full-time student... goddamn you are like a student work a nine to five, you eventually clock out. you're living-eating-breathing school ! like you're doing something for a club or an extracurricular! around gap years has to do a lot with like linh, the sociology majo,r talking about capitalism way less stigmatized now, just because with the I think a lot more people have grown compassionate. path ever since high school that we need to, like, entered the workforce, but if you really think to take breaks is because they want us to spend just put value on how much labor we can give never actually given a period of time where we're fortunate (this is like my biggest takeaway for my parents trusted me, were totally supportive of me know, I am financially independent from them, and graduating in like three years. and my friends you're probably also curious about my internship would you land an internship? and how do you pursue full-time student or like working another job? and in advocacy in the government and political summer, I was technically housed under OCA-Asian people paying me, and then I also worked at the Hawaiians, and Pacific Islanders in the summer and that internship without ever having an internship internship experience was because they really skills ;-; &lt;3 so obviously YouTube was a big aspect, and even in like my pre-professional aspirations :,) are getting internship opportunities are people,,, don't know that these opportunities exist!!! so I center, reach out to connections, and ultimately, internship applicant pool with really stacked why an internship coordinator or a placement like an opportunity for you to grow! like that's a qualified, and also 2) you're a nice person. you'd kinds of people not because like they're the most sometimes it's just because that's the person or the person who's always able to make everyone really goes a long way when you're interviewing. I breakup, and I really got to cherish my friendships so many queer, trans, non-binary, Asian Americans genuine long-lasting friendship with those people. catch up, sometimes they crash on my couch, I'll go like we're tight y'all! and it's from these people what platonic love and friendship looks like, and careers, some people are just there to get the climb the ladder and network. and I think it sucks... that someone's only talking to you because transactional. very fortunate that every single been in for the past year has been filled with for underrepresented, marginalized communities, and about a lot is about paying it forward, and making ladder once you're able to like climb the ladder, know that's something I hope to do too! and besides made, I also grew a lot technically! I think I to do like press releases, talking points, media clips, when I was a communications intern. and this past spring, I was actually a design intern like little newsletter graphics and social media and like the DNC accounts, and that was really worked with were amazing! so funny, hilarious ! and and advocacy and political work, which is really cool! because you know, I've been told my entire life that art is something that would make me broke and not have a career -_- which is simply not true! creativity is needed everywhere, to do corporate branding. obviously having life goals. I think post-grad, I always knew that grad school, but now I know for sure that I do my master's in public policy, so I'm gonna work for really want to go to grad school on the west end up permanently. I can't believe I've come this school!!! wow ;-; I've also really come into my gender just been so nourished, it's been flourishing y'all! and a lot of people had some inquiries about like, androgyny mean to you? what does it mean to balance both like such a collective and individualized read a lot of critical queer and gender theory, for instance you think about the masculization of word?) of Asian men, I think it's very important that ethnic context, because the two? interlinked! you might have grown up in, like especially if you gender non-conforming identities, you know, before in -_- but also I strongly believe that androgyny might express your gender with tangible items, and parameters of &quot;the right concoction of and create this perfect gender non-conforming look.&quot; the binary, and a lot of people ask me like how did the thing,,, I think I always knew, but a little thing since I was a kid, there were signs, and maybe I at the time. but like if I told my parents, lucky that, you know I have issues, as everyone does, even, though they always told me that I was a daughter, I was always a sister, they never really told me that like I needed to be a very aware that I had a responsibility as an brother who I feel a lot of responsibility for, and are your brother's protector. because of that, they within me that I feel like only like sons have. dinners, or like camping trips, instead of taking my trying to teach someone how to mow the lawn, it was all these quote-unquote manly things. my mother, of like dating or marriage or love onto me. she my entire like 18 years of like living under the that I should never depend on a man, all that this type of parenting from my mom and my dad, like wearing dresses! I don't really like wearing school) they were like,,, okay, so we can put you in I would wear, and I feel like a lot of people have comments of my content, being like, &quot;maybe you're linh?&quot; like,,,,, for you to have the audacity to think Mormonism when I was 11. in a church setting, in attacked by all these gender norms. let me tell you exclusive from religion and spirituality. I think beautiful moment, and I think we are becoming more just an anecdote I reserve for like two truths they're like, whoa linh you were Mormon??? I'm like if there's one thing Mormons are really good at, support systems and stability. and there's a lot of Mormons, so for someone who did not always have me, even though it was like sacrificing I think a to church, I-I would only wear polos and capris in their &quot;sunday best&quot; but like what's sunday didn't really care for the beginning. I was just not gonna care! but the thing, is like, when you to youth night every wednesday, you kind of start lived in birmingham at the time, in a predominantly schoolb and obviously in a predominantly white asian american, I stuck out even more as like a and I remember, like slowly caving in to the shizwas tough! because I remember the first day, the first day I went to church in a skirt, one of and was like, oh my gosh linh you're wearing like and I think like I think something in me broke short hair; I started growing it out. I started deep in it y'all! I was like going to all the the little pioneer trek where they recreate the school, which is like bible study. I feel like that was going on, and you know, the church also has and anti-woman history, and when I eventually left of the trump/clinton election), it did feel like cornerstone of my life. and I think I'm still like I really do feel like part of me...will um like I missed out on so much. and a lot of my went to school and like seminary together, a lot you know, they're also queer! or they're people folks who are queer and people of color in the ability to like separate themselves from that, from their family and like disowned, or like the and like school is like really affordable when school. various other factors, like I understand in that predicament, and it's just like hella hella during pride month, and I just want you to know let's talk about dating! let's talk about something and depressing ;-; so I haven't really dated... that's have like had crushes (none of them have worked part of me is apprehensive about dating because kind of gives me the ick. like I don't - I don't like that places you in a very certain context of those I don't like, I don't like. so I'm very unsure like will be dating anytime soon. I honestly don't say, that like seeing people, especially queer me really happy, and it brings me a lot of joy. but year! which I have not been single for that long been seeing someone casually, or on and off, or in so happy single! I feel like I focused more on you my besties! oh, I feel like the hardest thing about becoming true (and I know John mulaney's canceled &quot;oh like are you free Monday or Tuesday? and just won't see you for another five years!&quot; that's some of the best people you'll meet who genuinely you meet up again, whether it's in like three weeks, gonna change. you're always gonna have something to when you first met them. but I will say sometimes, even when they live in the same city, or when it's just a pain in the ass!!! I said it! breaks my FaceTime call with you three, four weeks out ???? like I have to go, but I want to talk about as many obviously love take two right now. this song is so too! but I've been listening to a lot of the most about run, autumn leaves, butterfly, outro: house of cards. too cool for school and bulletproof, like those two eras, I really love the music from love their clothing from dynamite, the butter era, from the Busan concert. I am still not over Hobi at least two times a week. anyways, let me know if I've been like dying over his lives! he's such boyfriend. when is a silver jewelry line coming we're just perfecting everything, okay? I have be rings, there's gonna be silver iterations of y'all! any new manga and anime? so I have been a big theme of this video is that I just love only started watching the show, but I am caught up of like woman friendships, like friendships trans character! I think it's just like so well captures so many beautiful nuances. highly I have been caught up with Demon Slayer, the sword watch that shiz at 3am, because that's what I did am to like 5am, and that was a mistake because that will just make you SOB at like 3:30 am. I saddest shiz happen in Demon Slayer like time going to another backstory? I'm still recovering wonderful! I've also been obsessed with spider-man because I am just in love with the art style. I also think the soundtrack's really good. I love favorite, and in across the spider verse, you also see beautiful. it's like these oily pastels. okay, and my ramblings, it might have been a lot... it was on your life, too! I don't want this like to just be I want to read about like, what you've been up to, read and like heart your comments down below! but so grateful for you always! I feel like the amount sound so cheesy) the amount of growth that I've had community that we have here on the internet! so our next video, and I hope you stay safe! lots of