go to video settings to select your preferred subtitle language I've gone away For to stay A little while But I'm coming back I'm coming back If it be 10,000 miles Okay, load 'em up! - Did you get that, Leo? - Hey! Hey, you, get that Do you want to get him killed? Alright, alright, come Well, so long, Arab. - So long, baby. Alright, alright, What's the He's okay! He's not going to-- I don't we can't keep that - Oh, you poor little fella. - He's going to - Goodbye, Arab. - Well, thanks. What do you want me to do? - Correspondent, huh? Well, you want to get up Well, get in. Now, now, come on, come Here, make room for this guy. - There he is. You're back - Alright, let's get moving! - Hey, Cookie, what call that pooch, Betty Gordon? - Lay off the dog, - Who's Betty Gordon? - Oh, the kid's been from her ever since Guess you're getting off at the first air base, ain't you, Pop? - Why? - Correspondent, ain't you? The flyers are the guys you The Hollywood heroes. We're just the lugs That's all, just for the ride. Ask Wingless, he'll tell ya. - Yeah, just one plane Just one plane and it's. - Alright, men, this Hey, how far up - Pyle. Well, to the end of the line, - Sure. Pyle, you say, Pyle? Say aren't you the that column about weekend - Mostly about something. That's a pretty good - Well, we're not an outfit yet. Maybe by this time Load 'em up! - Alright, come on men! On the truck, load up! Come on, on the double! Hey, come to think my old man reads your column. He thinks it's great. - Well, I'll be darned. - Alright, men, let's get on. - Hey fellas, get a load Solid jazz, - Gee whiz, Murph, I It's sort of cold - Yeah, I'll cut my legs off. - No, geez, you don't I hear we're gettin' in - Well, as far as I'm - The infantry ain't so worse. - Look, this is a And I'm a modern guy and the That's where I - They only worked you're too big, it - I'll cut my legs off. - If you had to sneak why didn't you bring - Oh, now, I'm not quite-- Don't interrupt Murder. - Yeah! This is Berlin bringing you the jive - Axis Sally. Nothing sweeter or hotter in the Remind you of Rosalind? Sylvia? Phyllis? Nancy? Mary Ellen? Daisy? You bet it does. Summer nights. The juke box down the road. Cokes. Double malts. A girl's soft laughter Tomorrow you boys will meet our armies Armies that have the French, the What chance do you stand? Says you! When we get Why Be sensible and surrender. Oh, yeah? Be my Dance with our lovely girls. They know how to entertain Save one for me - What a voice. What a bedroom. What a. I'll latest hit with lyrics for my handsome Light for me a cigarette In that small Let me feel your fingertips Linda, Linda on my lips Where two lovers used to be Are there echoes And do you still As Linda, my love I wait for you - There's a piece of furniture I'd love to push around. Turn that radio off! - It was Nazi music. Now it's mine, our - Hey, Pop! Why wasn't you born Or even an ugly one? Oh, why - Alright, alright! Goodnight, boys. Tonight I dream in Hey, how - About 20 miles. - How far? - 20 miles, then you get You know, to get the - Where we going, China? - Hey, that's ours, 105's! - Theirs, 88's! - I thought you said 20 miles. - That's what I said, 20 miles. Plane! - I didn't even see him. - Hey, what did I tell you - They stink! - Look at them scram! - Ah, the yellow bellies! - Alright men, in the truck. Come on, make it snappy, the Come on, come on, on the double. First death's always the worst. - I suppose so. On the - I guess he won't from that Betty Gordon dame now. - That makes them even. She won't get no more - What's Cookie's last name? - Henderson. Alright, follow - Well, Mr. Pyle, this We're liable to run into A couple of jeeps going back. - You mind if I go all the way? - Well, it's your funeral. Alright, follow me, men. Is this I could Yeah, we're Alright, men, fall out! Fall out! - Hey, where's the little guy? - Pop? - What do you mean, Pop? Ernie. - Ernie's a little way back. - He's over 38, he - Be here? He could even go home. Fall in! - Hey, how do I get Harry Fletcher, Ashtabula, Ohio. - What'll I say? Oh, anything back home see my Hey, Ernie! Tell Cleveland, Joe Single-handed! Winning the war single-handed, Joe McCloskey, who mixed sodas in And Harry Fletcher who just Danny Goodman who in the summer and studied And here they are with facing a deadly enemy in a This was their baptism of fire. It was chaos, indefinable. Going up the brink in the night time; Each boy facing the worst It was a battle without letup - The only thing between - That's not many men. - Yeah, it's a lucky thing - Stroebel to Walker, over. Can't seem to reach Walker. 1st Battalion. Yes, sir. I see. No sir, Colonel Hunt isn't - Who is it, Ralph? - Captain Harkin, sir. Reporting four of his he's pretty badly shot up. - Tell him to pull back Right, sir. D Company, hello? Hello? D Company, hello, hello? They don't answer. - Keep trying. Right, sir. Correspondent. - Pyle. Hello, hello? - They're pouring more and Yeah, and despite all the green man can't beat a Especially when the and better guns, One thing we can do is - Benson's through. They knocked him out when - Well, there it is. All we got in front of us is Little more than a company. - There's some hot coffee - No, thanks. - I think I could use some. - Me, too. - D Company. Hello, hello? They don't answer, Colonel. - Okay. - Soon they're going - How's it going, Walker? - Well, we're holding Our phone went dead. Captain Roberts sent me well, if there was any - No, no change yet. Better stick around for a while. - Hello, Bill. - Hello, Ernie. - Coffee? - Thanks. D to Hunt to Withdrawing Position Zebra 87. Zebra 87. Over and out. - Fleers? Put those papers - Burn 'em, sir? - Not yet. - Lieutenant Walker, - What is it, Sergeant? - Lieutenant Walker, I - Here, here I am, Warnicki. - Never saw anything Never saw anything like Sir, I never saw anything-- Take it - Their heavy tanks Point blank, point blank, sir. I had to get out. Got some of the men Did the best I could, sir. Did the best I could. - Fleers, burn the papers. This is the first to pull any outfit Wonder when we're going Stroebel, notify the Save what we can Alright, Alright, men, on your feet! Hey, fella. Come on, he's dead. Scram, Stroebel to Jones, Come in, over. Scram, scram, over American One of the few times It was a bitter and And Joe McCloskey was back home in Cleveland As we look back on and the bloody victories we realized that only could make a combat soldier. Killing is a rough business. Men live rough and talk rough. Timmy O'Brien, Hi Ernie, thanks for I dreamed I got a commission. - Selling what? G-A-L-B-R-A-I-G-H-T. I was a shoe Best outfit On a dull day you can always get a fight arguing which is In a year I'd been learned to love a lot of men, but I always reserved in my heart for the boys Everybody else had a company Company C, 18th Infantry. I hadn't seen them and now I set out They'd been through the conquest of Sicily, Now they were part of down the long, - Hey Dondaro, what - San Raviollio. Didn't we - Nah, that was San And I was wondering about Wingless Murphy, Lieutenant Bill Walker and a - Alright, men, fall out! Chow! - You know, when this find me a map and find - Mail call! - Hugh! Yay! - Lopez! Yeah! Warnicki? - Dondaro! Hayes! - Whoo, I'm a father! Warnicki? Warnicki! - That's me! - Anything for Captain Walker? - Sergeant! Anything there for - Sorry, Captain, Well, this stuff going, I'm - Ain't she pretty? - Hey, what's this? - Your insurance form. What's the matter with you? You forgot to put in - What's that? - Anybody whose there gets the - You mean anybody's name - Yeah, and you better the next shindig, bub, or Stick your old lady's - I ain't got no old lady. - Well, your old man, then. Ain't you got no relatives? Well, stick anybody's name down. You don't want all that wough - What? - I said you don't want to let - Hey, Sarge! What do you know? Yesterday I ain't worth I can throw $10,000 bucks Hey, what do you got in the - I don't know. - Well, open it! How you going to find - That's an idea. It's from the old lady! Look what she's done! She had the kid's Junior's voice. He couldn't even say - Gee, whiz, let's listen to it! - Aww, who's got a - Maybe they got one - Yeah, well what Let's get going! Why don't you look Get out of that jeep and - Who you mad at? How are you, Warnicki? - Why, it's Ernie! Hey fellas, it's the little guy! How ya been, Ern? - Yeah, I brought you a couple. - Oh, good thinking! Glad - I wanted to, on the way. Time has gone - Oh, I've been-- - We've been saving Thank you, Bobby! - At last I met Ernie Pyle. Now I can write the old - Well, here we go again, Ernie. You know, every time you The last time it was Tunisia. You better check your - Yeah, it's me, I go Got to make a living somehow, got to have something You - What? - My old man says - Good to see you, boys. Alright - Hey Ernie, how about borrowing Hiya, Bill! - Hello, Ernie. - I see you're going - Oh, these? - Congratulations. - Thanks. It's because I survived longer than the other louie's, I guess. Alright, Sergeant, let's - Alright, men, follow me! Hiya, Wingless! - Hi, Ernie! - Afraid the buddy - Me, too. Well, you got an outfit now? - You bet your life - Looks pretty tough. - They are tough, Better be. - Foolin' around no way to reach a ripe old age. - I'm going to build me a - Okay, cover me you guys. I'll get 'em. - Where's your platoon? - Up the street! - Looks like this one's on us! - Okay, I'll cover you. - The promised land. Hiya, babe. Listen rainbow, I'd still speak your language. There's that war again! Sounds like they're paging me. Honest, rainbow, this hurts I'll be back, don't worry. Okay, okay? - Okay. - Let's go to church, Warnicki. - Okay, just a minute. You wait there junior, - Lousy, kraut swine! Lousy, kraut swine! Lousy, kraut swine! Lousy, kraut swine! - This is a funny place to - Cigarettes are no Get away, get away! - Oh, you're G.I. Joe, huh? - G.I. Joe! - Cigarettes no - If this war don't kill - Me, I feel like I'm 45. - I feel like I was, How - 43. - I'm 26, if I knew I wouldn't have a - Oh, yes, you would. You'd be just like me, worrying about whether Hey, guys, Where's - I know I'm going - Hey, Murph! Hey, Murph! That redheaded nurse You know, your fiance. - Is she? - What a lucky guy you are. Meeting the gal in the States way over here. - Hey, did you hear that? My - Okay, men, your Now move on out and let Come on, get out of there! Snap it up, boys! Two minutes to lather We ain't got all day! - Hey, Sarge, what's all that? - This? - Yeah. - Well, the yellow one The red and white is The real pretty one over is for being in this - No kidding? - Yeah. - You know any good Yeah, as a matter of Alright, come on, your Come on, move on, let's go! - Hey, look at Murph, he's Hey Murphy, Murphy, come on! This is your big You got to get ready, Murph! Come on, wake up! - Hey, okay, okay fellas! A bit much to go - Hey, hey! Anybody know where I A phonograph, a Victrola? A music box, see? Hey, what's the you guys understand Look, a phonograph. A Victrola, a music box, see? Oh, she's got one, Arab. We're going to hear junior yet. Yeah, sure, that's right. No, no, no. Look, please. Ah, jazz! - Brother, the whole town must - Everything's all set, Spence. - Oh swell, get Ernie, he's - Yeah, we'll even get - Get the Captain, - Hurry up, fellas. - It works. What'd I tell ya? It works! No needle. - Ernie! Wake up, we need ya! Red wants you to give her away. - What do I want to give - Come on, don't - Leave me alone. The only way you'll get me out We figured on Come on, you guys, hustle it up. - Come on, let's go, - You're holding Come on fellas, let's go. - Here goes, Arab. Junior's going to Backwards, I must-- Oh, what a wedding And no honeymoon - Hey, Warnicki! Oh, what a wedding But no honeymoon - Come on, Murph's Oh, what a wedding But no honeymoon Come on. - Dearly beloved, we are of God and this company this man and this woman Who giveth this woman to Who giveth this woman to - I do. Repeat after me. I Robert, take thee, Elizabeth, - I Robert, take thee, To have and to To have and to For For better, for worse. For For In In sickness To love and to - To love and to cherish Those whom God hath joined let no man put - It'll take a better man - Position halt! Okay, kids, it's all yours. - Boys, honestly, thanks. - Alright, you guys, Let's get going. - Where you been, - Hey, Dondaro. - Uh, oh. - Tell me, Dondaro, what's - What's the matter You all look tired. Good morning, dear. - I don't like it, - Maybe they've pulled - Uh-uh. - At this rate we'll be - Alright men, fall out! Look at that old So peaceful. You'd never think within a thousand miles of it. - Or a thousand years. - Maybe you're right pulling all the I don't get it, though. If they wanted to they could make it plenty tough. Get me artillery fire control. Hello, Pete, it's Walker. You know that building up - The monastery? - Well, you can call but I call it, in military If you don't want you better give it the business. - Can't, got an order - Does that sound Medic! - Alright, men, let's go! - We lost three. - I suppose this - Yeah, it kind of going to need a - Patrol, patrol, patrol! One more patrol - Personally, I'd if that monastery wasn't - Just got back, Captain. Drew a lot of small Mortar fire, 793. Terrific artillery, They got Lieutenant Michaelson got it in the - Okay, Sergeant, you You take over Josephs' platoon. - Gotcha. - Noto, if Lieutenant personal belongings send - Oh, my aching back. Somebody ought to phone - You know, it sounds pretty but sometimes resting like this I get a kick out - Hot java, Steve? - No. - There goes that Everyone knows it's being Why in the devil - I'm a Catholic Check, brother. - I've got a wife and a kid. Think I want to die - Why wasn't a born a 4F - Lieutenant Hawkins Replacements. - Yeah, I'll be right with you. - The maid will - Alright Sergeant, Alright - You first four, first platoon. Sergeant Warnicki will show The next six, second platoon. The Corporal will The rest of you go with You take over Lieutenant Right past that mansion but turn to your left. Alright, that's all. - Any of you dog faces know The cream of the Dirt! - Gee, a guy could get - Alright, let's You stick with Sergeant He knows the terrain. Okay, move 'em out. - Alright, let's go. - So long, Arab. - Good luck. - Oh, my poor aching back. - Bad cold. Our hero! Our hero! Our hero! - What's the gag? - Your mail, Mr. Pyle. - Thanks. I see you already opened it. - Why not? It was marked personal. - What's in it? - Oh, nothing much, you just won the Pulitzer Prize, that's all. - Well, I'll be darned. - I regret to inform you are no longer You are now a - Poor devil, going - Well, well, well. It will be a comfort for you to know that your sons, wherever they are, or in their foxholes, are celebrating, too, cranberry sauce and - Tough skin on this bird. - I always like to eat - Cranberry sauce, mmm, mmm. - Poor folks back home, - Told you you should - You had turkey, had turkey, the My men are going to have turkey. - But, we tried to, sir. Either you get those turkeys have to get themselves - I'll scrounge around and - What about cranberries? - Oh now, wait a minute! - Cranberries. - Cranberries. Sleep in heavenly peace - Believe it or not, Santa Claus! Gimme a drumstick! - Captain Walker speaking. Oh, I see. Just one prisoner or two? Well naturally, sir, we'll Replacements? No, they're not here yet. Yes, sir. Another patrol. - I'll go. - Oh no, you've had enough. - Every step forward is a - Okay, get me 10 men. - Ernie, did you bring wine? - What's Christmas without wine? Oh! - And after you repast we got one cigar apiece. Alright, Sergeant. - Alright men, let's go! Well This is Bob 'Command speaking for the Armed and saying Merry Christmas and Happy New Year from God bless all of you over there. Hey, Ernie. - Hmm? - You've been to Hollywood. Ever know Carole? - I met her. Is it true she? - Well, that's the rumor. Tell me something, are Are they? - Why, I forgot to ask. Probably. - You've been around a lot. Haven't you, Ernie? New York, Washington, You know, when this shindig is - Good. - Might want you - Yeah. Replacements - Fine, I'll assign them. We'll need five more. Get 'em down to headquarters. And even if it hurts, - Anything else, Captain? - No, thanks. - Saved you some turkey, Sarge. - Don't want any. Oh, my poor back. - Sure wish he'd - It's not me. Well, fellas, I'm Goodnight, fellas. - Thanks for the merry - Hi, Ernie. - Merry Christmas, Bill. - Merry Christmas, Ernie. A little night cap? - If you don't mind. What's that, a secret weapon? - Grappa. - Grappa? - Italian moonshine. You get a purple heart - Me, I'd rather have the It must in New Mexico this - It sure is. - I always wanted Well, someday, maybe. - Well, if you do, look us up. My girl and me will You married? - Well, yes and no. I wanted one thing, She walked out. Chapter closed. - Oh, well. - Names, Jesus. I've been pulling old names You know, you're not the I've been writing, too. Jones, Peterson, McCarthy, Spintovski, Smith. Dear Mrs. Smith, your son And the new kids that come up, that's what gets Some of them just got a They don't know what it's I know it ain't, I know it ain't my fault I get so I feel like a murderer. I hate to look at Here, drink up Ernie. Here's to Frei Pass, Fila Oh, I'm tired. - Well, you better - That reminds me of for insomnia; get Names and addresses. And the hills to be taken. You know, you'd be simply amazed at the number of hills Ernie, why the devil - I often ask that myself. - If only we could out of all this energy They're the best, Ernie. The best. - Yep. Well, it's a world never know, even the Air Force. Up there they approach When they die well-fed, if that's any comfort. But the G.I., well and he dies so miserably it's... - Dondaro! Have a nice time? I always like to see one of You know, Dondaro, a great deal of to break every Goofin' off down there was one Now get of here Wait! Report to Sergeant Warnicki. Tell him you're going to in this company Nice, deep ones. - You're lucky, Dondaro, - When this war is write a book exposing this army. - Hey, Dondaro, tell Was it worth it? - Hey fellas, look, look! - Yee-haw! - Here they come! - Boy, ain't that pretty? - It won't be long now. - Okay, Steve, let's go! Come on, men! General Eisenhower had made his decision; He said, &quot;If we &quot;destroying a famous &quot;our own men's &quot;men's lives count Here was one of the The very rubble of the for the Nazis and We were right back - Warnicki, ain't he back? - You'd better take Keep an eye on him, too. - When we going - 1800. Coffee, Captain? - No, thanks. It's hot. - No, thanks, Pete. - Tough time getting back, sir. What kept you? - Shut up! Hello, Steve. Say hello to your Hello, daddy. Hello, daddy. - I'll kill 'em. - I'll kill 'em! Hello, daddy. - And them. - Hello, daddy. Hello, daddy. Hello, daddy. - If it wasn't for them-- - I'd be home with junior. I love you. - I'd be home with I'll kill every I'll kill every one! I'll kill 'em, I'll - Warnicki! Warnicki! - Hello, daddy. Hello, daddy. Hello, daddy. Hello. - Take him to the medic's. Go Say hello to daddy. Hello, daddy. Hello, daddy. Alright, men, Machines had done their best and it wasn't enough. Now came the time, as the greatest fighting the infantry solider, had - Where you from, Joe? - Louisiana. - Louisiana, good. - Cassino looks a lot All the way to Rome! Yeah, I got a - Fella, you know where - This is it. C Company? - What's left of it. Hi, Ernie. Howdy, Longshot. - Where you been, Ernie? - Oh, spreadin' it around. Hi, Ernie. - Hiya. - Welcome to this side You finally made it, huh? - Guys moving up the road look kind of chipper, - Sure do. Well, hiya. Hi, Ernie! - We kicked the door open and those guys make - Let 'em have their - Got an extra chair here? Oh, yeah, sit down! - Glad to see you, Ernie. - Thanks. Haven't you eaten that dog yet? - Come on, fellas. - It's Dondaro. - It's the Captain. - I'm sorry, old man. - Sure am sorry, sir. - Alright men, let's go. That is our war and we will carry it one battleground to another We will win. I hope we can rejoice And all together we will try, try out of the to reassemble our broken so firm and so fair that another great war can never And for those beneath there's nothing we to pause and murmur,