What is the difference between animate matter, a living organism and inanimate matter of the equivalent complexity? So what difference between a live mouse and a recently deceased mouse? They're both made of the same atoms, and molecules combine in the same complex structure, but in one case it's a live one case study. What is that difference? It's not magic. The spark of life issue that vitalism that scientist used to think 200 years ago. Well, we know that's not the case. You know, we should be able to explain life. I'll just. I didn't say like this. Not that we should be able to explain biology using the laws of physics and chemistry, because what else is there? Yeah, just maybe that. It's just maybe that those laws of physics, chemistry, they explain like we have yet to properly understand. But it can't. What else could it be? First of all, on the issue of confusion, I have to say there's this famous quote by one of the founding fathers of quantum mechanics, Niels Bohr. He says, If you're not confused by quantum mechanics, then clearly you haven't understood it. You're meant to be confused. Doctors, Kitchen Recipes, Health, Lifestyle. So, Jim, thank you so much for jumping on the podcast today. And as you might know, we generally talk about nutrition and food and medicine and lifestyle and stuff, but I was fascinated by the work that you've done with Professor John Joe and your wider work as well in life scientific. And so so I just had to get you on the point and I thought I knew a bit about physics until I read your book. And I. Realise. Complicated is. The point of the book is to help you understand, understand less. But it was, it was really well written and and it's, it's piqued my interest even more so in the subject. And I definitely want to read around it. And I've watched some of your lectures as well, but I thought we could start by talking a bit about yourself and how you got interested in physics and how it sort of led you to this meandering path and being such an excellent science communicator. Yeah, well, I mean, I fell in love with physics in my early teens, I guess, you know, they just 30 to 40. And I still wanted to play professional football. I still wanted to be a rock star and all that, you know, the normal. But yeah, I sort of realised that, you know, the big questions that, you know, lots of, lots of us think about, you know, laying down, looking up at the night sky. Does the universe go on forever? What a stars made of what's inside an atom, You know, all those big, big questions. And I realised that physics was a subject I had to study if I wanted to get answers. And I happened to be, you know, I was good at maths, good at the sort of logical problem solving. And for me physics was so much easier than the other sciences, it was easier than chemistry and biology because you didn't have to remember so much stuff. I in physics, it was like puzzle solving, you know, so, so because I was just but I couldn't I was bad at history because I couldn't remember dates and names. Same with chemistry all. So from that point, from about 13 or 14, that's it. I wanted to do physics and, and that's where my path has taken me. Universe, study, physics, and then as a career and the subject ever since. You you grew up in Baghdad. Is that is that correct? Yes. Yes. Well, my, my, my mum's English. My dad's from Iraq, so he, he'd been studying over in the UK in the fifties, studying engineering. We met my mum, married, went back to Iraq because he was in as an engineer in the Iraqi Air Force. I was born in Baghdad. We'd come over to the UK every two or three years, summer holiday to visit my maternal grandpa. But, you know, English was my first language. You spoke English at home, but I spoke Arabic because I went to school in Iraq until the age of 16 before we finally came over, settled permanently in the UK. Amazing. And you already had some connections that were then Leeds supporter as well? I had, yeah. Well, so every kid in Iraq and probably every kid in every country in the world has a favourite English football team. So clearly growing up in Iraq in the sixties and seventies, Leeds was the team to support and unfortunately despite their fortunes. So plummeting. I've just carried on loyalty and a sense. Yeah, I remember I grew up supporting Manchester United, like a typical fairweather supporter. Being an Londoner, of course, I supported Manchester and now just I just watch the sport. But yeah, it's it's interesting how everyone across the world has got European routine. They just absolutely love one. Oh, well, this wonderful story. I had a friend of mine in Iraq. He we lived the last few years outside of by the south of Baghdad in a small town. He'd only been to Baghdad once in his life, so he'd never certainly never travelled outside of Iraq. He was a big fan of Preston North End. He'd seen them on Match of the Day rerun, which was shown on Iraqi TV. And that was impressive little thing you could name all that was amazing. That's so good. So the book that you wrote, I think it was about five years ago now, Life on the Edge. Yes. Well, maybe we could start really at the title and explain what we mean by the title. I think it was come across, you know, living on the edge and stuff and the on was there. But what are you what do you guys mean by life on the edge. Right. Well, what we mean is something quite specific, which is not obvious just from the title. And so the idea is in in in 20th century science, you know, the in certainly in physics as this theory of quantum mechanics, which is, you know, people will have heard of and it's just very, very clever and very weird and very confusing. And it's the theory describes how atoms behave in the subatomic particles. The Large Hadron Collider and so on. But it's not a theory that describes our everyday world around us. And so it's it's very specific to the microscopic realm. As that theory was developed in the 1920s, 1930s. At the same time, biology was going through a revolution because that's when genetics started in molecular biology. And at the time there was the thinking that, well, molecular biology just talk about molecules. They're pretty tiny, right? You know, they're, they're sort of collections of atoms. Surely you need this new quantum theory to explain molecular biology, and it turned out they didn't need it. And so the two areas of science developed independently. It's only in recent years that we've discovered there are these certain things, mechanisms that go on inside living cells down at the scale of molecules than atoms that we seem to need the weird, counterintuitive rules of quantum physics to explain them. And that led to this this new field, which this book is about quantum biology. So when we talk about life on the edge, we mean life on the edge of the boundary between normal biology, a molecular biology that doesn't need any weirdness, and some of these counter-intuitive aspects of the quantum world is, you know, we ask the question, could could life exist even without a helping hand from quantum mechanics? And so am I right in saying that you've got your your classical system things in the in the macroscopic level, and then you have your quantum systems where you have it at a very, very minor scale. Is that is that right, that those two definitions? Absolutely. But of course, the big question is where's the boundary? Yeah. If you get it right, you get smaller and smaller. So, you know, everyday, you know, the physics that we do at school, you know, springs and pendulums and balls rolling down slopes and all that business, all the stuff we see around us, even to the very large sending rockets to the moon and Mars, all of that requires classical physics, the physics of Isaac Newton, basically. Oh, later extended with a helping hand for people like Albert Einstein, of course. But all of that is still called classical physics. You get smaller, but then you say, What do you mean by smaller? Down to the size of a pinhead? No, smaller down to the size of a living human cell? No, even smaller. You get to the point where we we're talking about the building blocks of life, you know, DNA or even, you know, viruses. You know, sense of viruses seem to be in the news these days. They are at a scale where if they weren't living organisms, if they were just objects in the physics lab, we'd be thinking, right, we're going to use the rules of quantum mechanics to explain how they move, how they interact with each other, what their structure is like. But because they're part of biology, we've sort of ignored quantum mechanics historically for for those reasons that biologists don't learn, quantum mechanics and physicists don't learn biology. But it's it's that boundary is very fuzzy. This is standard, what's called the nanoscale. You know, we talk about things like nanotechnology, which is the size of molecular structures at the size of the double helix of DNA, may or may not have some interaction with the quantum world, and we feel it should. Go see you. Have you macroscopic classical sort of systems and then you have would it be fair to say like subatomic level, is that the sort of. Yeah, yeah. Atoms, atoms and below that my, my background is in nuclear physics, which is the, the nucleus of the atom, which is even smaller, and that's really the playground of quantum mechanics. Gotcha. So before we we look at how this might may have an effect in biology, could you give us some idea of some of the weird things that happened down at that quantum level that have been verified by some experimental data? Yeah, I mean, some of it sounds so crazy that the non-scientists that are come off it shocked that don't go back and check your sums you know go back and do that everything because this this is silly. We'd love to be able to find out what why or how. It's silly, but we've had quantum mechanics for for a hundred years now. In fact, the experiments that confirmed it go back even before the 1920s. It started off by people doing experiments with atoms. They could start to do these very, very refined experiments. Looking at the structure of atoms. They discovered things like X-rays and radioactivity and so on that they couldn't explain with the theories that they had at the time. And then people like Einstein and others would come up with ideas. And what actually, if you'd explain it this way, look at the sums you get from your calculations for your equations on paper. Match the results that you get in the experiments lab. So clearly we're on the right track here, but no one understood how or why. And it wasn't until the mid late 1920s that this whole new edifice called quantum mechanics was finally complete. It does describe it says that once you get down to this subatomic level, you can't talk about objects being, you know, atoms bumping into each other, being like tiny balls bumping into each other. Everything starts to get a bit fuzzy, a bit hazy, a bit probabilistic. You can't say know this is the typical subatomic particles. The electron is a tiny little tiny about the orb is zips around the outside of atoms. You can't see an electron is a tiny, tiny particle. Sometimes it behaves like a cloud, like a spread out entity and how it behaves. This is even more weird. How it behaves depends on how you look at it. So if you if you design an experiment to find out where an electron is, so you've got it. You've got an electron in a box, don't worry about how how you capture an electron and stick it in a box and after it's too tiny to see anyway. But I did. Ideally you have an electron, a box. If you designed some experiment to work out where it is, you could you could pinpoint it at an exact location, but equally you could design experiment to work out how much energy the electron has. And you can define its energy very, very precisely. But if you do that, suddenly it spreads out to fill the whole box. It's not in a particular location. So you maybe have something called Heisenberg's Uncertainty Principle, which is sort of it's a it's a term that's entered popular culture. Most people, unless they're sort of aficionados, practitioners of quantum mechanics, won't know what it means, but it simply means you can't pinpoint where an electron is and work out what its energy is at the same time, or work at how fast it's going at the same time. So everything that the quantum level, subatomic level is a bit fuzzy is uncertain. It's not fixed and precise. And that's inherent in the very nature of that. The subatomic world. It's not because we don't know how to measure it or because our instruments are too clumsy and it's too tiny, too too slow to hold in place. That's really what the world is like. There. But it does mean that particles, because they're spread out, you can actually talk about an electron or an atom being in two places at the same time. You don't see it in two places at the same time. If you look, you see it in one place or the other. But before you look, you can do other experiments which confirm that it has to be in both cases at once. And that culminated in this famous idea by the Austrian physicist Erwin Schrodinger. He and so the Schrodinger's cat paradox is famous. He said, look, if you cats are made of atoms, right? And if if atoms, you know, he's one of the founders of quantum mechanics, you even he himself had doubts and sleepless nights like how can it be like this? You stick a cat in a box, cats are made of atoms. And you know, if that cat could be half dead and half alive. So if you if you put some poison in, which may or may not have been released into the box within an hour, this this, by the way, this from was never carried out. They never got it. Just a thought experiment. And he said common sense would tell us that until you open the box, either the cat has been killed by the poison or the poison hasn't been released yet and the cat is alive. It's just we don't know whether the cat is dead or alive. He said no, But if the if you apply the rules of strict rules of quantum mechanics, that tells us the cat is both dead and alive at the same time, it's in a fuzzy in-between state until you open the box and look to see when and then you'll see it one. So it's sort of that fuzziness doesn't disappear until we open the box. So it's ideas like that which still give even give quantum physicists like me headaches. How can the world be like that? And yet, you know, we've we've, we've had to live with it, you know, and then you've got particles very far apart from each other instantaneously communicating. That's called quantum entanglement. That was so weird that even Einstein didn't believe it. You know, he said, Oh, that can't be that can't be right. You know, go back and think about it again. But it turns out, you know, these things go on in the quantum world and we have ample evidence that they are true. In fact, the reason the sun shines is thanks to quantum mechanics, because in the sun, hydrogen atoms are fusing together to make helium. The only way they can stick together is if they use these weird rules of quantum mechanics of being spread out objects. And so without quantum mechanics, we wouldn't be here because there would be no sun to sustain life on earth. So it's true. Yeah, it made sense. Yeah. Yeah. And one of those perplexing things that you talk about and I've seen as well in the past is the impact of measurement and the measurement effect. I think it's called where if you try, it's almost like opening the box. The only way you can tell whether it's in one place or not is is having a look inside. But when you do have a look inside, you are in some way influencing the outcome of the experiment. And that was demonstrated in that in the slit experiment as well as that. Yes, that's right. Yes. The measurement problem. Well, I mean, the problem is this. We say you can't the cat is not dead or alive until you open the box and look. But you know, who are you? Do you have to have a Ph.D. to do that? Do you have to be wearing a white lab coat? Can anyone look? Could another cat look? And if that's the case, why couldn't the cat in the box decide for itself? What happens if you put Erwin Schrodinger in a box with some poison? See how he likes it? All right. Do you then open the box? And he says, Oh, thank goodness for that. I was feeling a bit of a dead and alive state until you open the box and force me to be alive. So the measurement problem comes with these philosophical issues that we are only now starting to appreciate exactly what is going on. And it's still a work in progress even after 100 years of quantum mechanics. Okay, So two listeners probably have turned off my most and I'm sure now they're probably at the same sort of level of confusion as me. And it's a very confusing topic in your book. There's a fantastic way of, of of definitely taking us through that journey historically as well. So you're at a quantum level, which is essentially everything is made up of everything is made up of atoms stuck together. You get to the classical level where those weird effects don't occur. So entanglement being in a couple of places at once, etc. how can we explain why that doesn't happen at the macro level when it happens at the micro level, given that everything is made up of micro stuff? Right. Well, the first of all, on the issue of confusion, I have to say there's this famous quote by one of the founding fathers of quantum mechanics, Niels Bohr. He says, If you're not confused by quantum mechanics, then clearly you haven't understood it. You're meant to be confused. So so don't we all know that doesn't make sense. I'm not clever enough. No, no, no, no. Clearly, you know, you're clever enough because you've realised that it is confusing. Yeah. So what? Why don't those quantum effects persist when you get large objects? Well, it's to do with the number of, of particle, the number of constituents in the building blocks that make up something. When you talk about individual atoms or individual particles, they can very easily express their quantum lists. They can be wavy, they can be probabilistic, they can be in two places at once and fuzzy. You build more and more and more together and all their fuzziness combined and cancels out and you get some overall averaging, some smearing out of their effects. So you don't see this fuzziness when you're talking about a ball, say a ball, football, tennis ball or whatever is made of of trillions of building blocks of atoms. And so all of them working together. Don't you know, if you think about waves on the surface of the ocean, if you're zoomed out and you look at the ripples on the ocean, what the ocean might look smooth from a very good from from a high altitude, you get closer, you can see the waves and they're behaving normally. But if you were to get down to the level of water molecules they all jiggling about all over the place. So the quantum effects are a bit like that. Once you zoom out and get large number of particles, it washes out or those effects, you just don't get to see them anymore. Okay. Okay. So I'm sort of understand, I'm piecing things together. How does Quantum and the the quantum system relate to biology? Maybe we can use an example. You use the example of photosynthesis. We've already talked about the sun, for example. How do we use quantum mechanics to to explain the process of photosynthesis? Well, I mean, this is to some extent still a slightly controversial subject, but, you know, photosynthesis that, you know, the way that plants and bacteria, in fact, use sunlight and convert it into chemical energy to to sustain their life is a really complex process. It's a biochemical process, multiple stages and lots of things happening. But it's been observed that the very earliest stage, the first step, in fact, a synthesis, which is the sort of chlorophyll molecules capturing sunlight, a particle of light called a photon and delivering it to the reaction centre in the cell. So that bundle, that lamp of energy, of light energy is can then be converted into chemical energy. It can, you know, split molecules and make new ones and so on. So it's basically using it to sustain life. The delivery of that photon from the moment it's captured to the reaction centre seems to be very efficient, far more efficient than you might expect you'd think, because it's got to work its way through a forest of molecules inside the cell that it would just bump around like, like a ball in a pinball machine, you know, it could go anywhere. It just randomly. Chances are it'll it'll if not end up where it's supposed to end up. If you think about the game, that was that. So I think of the afternoon quiz game. I'm not that I watch daytime TV where they were they they drop the counters down. Oh. Pointless. No, no, not pointless. No, no, no. Not through the. Counties. The counties down. And they sort of go down these pegs and then they land some and then they push other, you know, coins, you know, discs. Oh, yeah. Yeah. Yourself. And it's like an arcade game. That's like that. Yeah, Yeah, yeah. Well, those counties, you say, Right, I'm going to do it in section three because you hope you want it to land in a certain place. Well it may not because it's randomly bouncing off these pegs. It might land somewhere else. That's what happens to this. I'm using analogy from daytime TV quiz shows to describe quantum mechanics. That's my career is over it. And yet that photon always almost unerringly reaches its destination. And it was discovered that what looks like is happening is that it's it's behaving quantum mechanically. Now you mentioned the two slit experiment just now we haven't talked about that. The basic idea is you send a particle through a screen with two slits. It should go through one slit or the other if it's going to get through. And then it hits a back, a screen on the back. But what happens because it's a quantum particle, it seems to be able to go through both slits at once, like the cat being dead and alive at the same time. And you see what happens there. It leads to what's called an interference pattern, a bit like waves going through slits. You get light and dark fringes. Well, this photon of light seems to do the same thing. It seems to follow multiple routes simultaneously in just such a way that the overall average is always hitting its destination and it never goes astray because quantum mechanics is helping it. I know I've not given this explanation Justice, but any more than that would make it even more confusing. Yeah, I understand it because there's another section where you talk about hereditary and heredity, so you know how it's possible that we can replicate genes with such accuracy when if you were to look at randomness, there should be much more in terms of errors, right? Copying errors than than there should be. So perhaps quantum mechanics has an impact on on that as well On replication. Yes, it's possible. I mean, that's something we're looking at at the moment. In fact, what we're looking at now with with my research group is that say, okay, well, let's say, you know, life has evolved. The ability to be very accurate in replication. You know, there are enzymes in the cell, you know, large molecule proteins that are the molecular machines that make sure that no mistakes take place. But what if a mistake does take place? Okay, so how could that mistake happen? Could quantum mechanics play a role? So, in fact, we published a paper earlier this year showing that in the double helix structure of DNA, the, you know, the twisted ladder, there are particles that hold the two strands of the DNA together, and they could hydrogen bonds. They're basically atoms of hydrogen. And they can behave quantum mechanically. They can jump from one strands of the other in accordance with the rules of quantum mechanics. That happens very rarely. But if it does, and then, you know, because what happens with replication of DNA is the two double helix strands unwind or unzipped. They're unzipped by an enzyme and then they're separated, and then each one makes another copy of itself. And, you know, if if everything's working fine, it makes an exact replica of the partner that it used to be linked to. But if this hydrogen atom jumps from one strand to the other just before the two unzip, then you get this this chemical bond in the wrong place. And when it starts to make a copy of itself, it doesn't make an identical copy to what happened before. So it leads to a mutation. And so that's the question we're asking now. You know, we know mutations happen and thank goodness, mutations we don't want the COVID 19 virus to mutate. That's a bad thing. But actually, if there was no mutation at all, there'd be no evolution because we'd never change. And and so we know mutations happen all the time. The question we're asking now is could sometimes could mutations take place because of quantum mechanics allowing this particle, this atom, to jump from one place to another? We're trying to do all these very sophisticated computer models to try and see what are the chances of this happening. And if it does, is that going to get corrected? Is it going to get is that an error that's going to get picked up? So, no, you don't. You're in the wrong place. Or does it just go through the process and then, you know, become a mutation further down? Or to add another dimension, would it be something that might be advantageous to the host if there was a mutation that actually provided some sort of physical phenotypic advantage? Absolutely, Yeah. I mean, you know, we talk about the corona virus mutating, and that's a bad thing. Well, for the virus itself is a good thing, you know, survival of the fittest. And so the reason the mutation becomes, you know, like we talk about the Delta variant of the COVID virus spreading, that's because that mutation is better at that's being transmitted from one person to another. So that was because of the mutation. You know, it didn't know if I if I'm you take this way, that's going to give me a advantage. Come on, guys, let's all mutate. It just happened randomly by accident. And then that new mutation suddenly discovered that it was more successful at transmitting. So it becomes the dominant type. So mutations, if they're not advantageous, they won't survive. They're not the fittest to survive. The ones that do survive are the ones that do infer some sort of advantage on their on their host organism. Yeah. And so it's like this combination of like Lamarck in theory and Darwinian ism. So, you know, neo-darwinism so where you have some advantages that are conferred to the host and some that are brought out. But there's also there seems to be like a thread of heredity that is being potentially and precious by quantum mechanics. Is that it's possible, Yes. I mean, we know that mutations take place for all sorts of reasons, you know, just ionising radiation that we know is bombarding all life in the biosphere constantly. If that radiation, you know, hits a cell, it can damage the DNA and that can lead to a mutation. And as you said earlier, you know, copying errors take place. It's not you know, the fidelity is not 100% all the time. So there are reasons ways why mutations take place all the time. The question we're asking is this quantum effect, this so-called quantum tunnelling of this hydrogen atom from one DNA strands to the other? And is it important we think it takes place? The question is, is it in the noise or does it really make up a significant probability of happening, you know, as part of other forms of mutation? If so, Well, it's interesting to know, maybe we could do something about it. You know, maybe it could be controlled in some way. Yeah. Yeah. I'm obviously I'm not referring to some of the conspiracy theories that came out last year on the heart of the coronavirus with 5G and all that kind of stuff. But in all that or any concerns with urban electromagnetic fields are not having an impact on people's health at all. Is that something that you've come across. As I've kind of been since I've come across it, but it's not something that, you know, the sums simply don't add up. It the numbers, you know, it's just impossible for that to have a major effect on on the cell one. We do know that, you know, there are there are there are creatures, you know, animals that can sense the earth's magnetic field. And they use that for for navigation. You know, certain birds when they migrate certain insects, certain marine mammals. So we know that the earth's magnetic field can have some influence on the chemistry inside living organisms, and that even that is not very well understood, even though it's been known for a few decades. But the and so we know that electro magnetic fields can have an influence after all, you know, stick a body in an MRI scanner. That's that's a very powerful magnetic field that affects the body. Otherwise, you wouldn't get get an image. But the notion that it can lead to mutations, that simply doesn't make logical sense because it would have to be able to be so focussed. You can't cause a mutation. You can damage a cell, you know, if you if you sit inside a very powerful magnetic field, then that's that could be dangerous. But it's not going to cause individual particles to jump from one place to another or mutate and certainly sitting in, you know. So I know that people are still thinking, looking at, you know, effects of overuse of mobile phones and things like that. But I've not seen any any numbers, any serious modelling calculations where someone said, yeah, that's a strong enough magnetic field to actually cause harm. Okay. And that's great to know as well because I'm constantly asked about it, but I don't think I've ever come across anything definitive that suggests that utilising those devices will be or be exposed to background electromagnetic fields that have a detrimental effect. Talking about electromagnetic fields, I guess we should we should talk about human consciousness. And again, yet another frustrating field of of what how, how on earth is it that we are self-aware that we can formalise thoughts? Where were we up to at this point? Where are we up to? We we still find consciousness mysterious. Yeah. I mean, certainly my my colleague John Joe McFadden, who's a molecular geneticist at you, said you had him on, on the podcast last year. He in fact he's published recently a couple of papers on the effects of of the electromagnetic field of the brain. You know, you know, our brain works by neurones. These are electrical signals. And therefore, by definition, this electromagnetic field associated with the brain, whether or not that's connected to consciousness is a is a hugely speculative area. I mean, a lot of people have have have suggested, well, you know, quantum mechanics, maybe maybe the consciousness is quantum. And I can see why that is an attractive proposition. But my answer's always the same. Look, quantum mechanics is mysterious and we don't understand it. Consciousness is mysterious and we don't understand it. That does not mean the two have to be connected to each other. And, you know, and I think, you know, whether the advances that are being made in conscious, conscious in studies are by people working in neuroscience, artificial intelligence. There's a there's a good friend of mine, a colleague of mine at Sussex University who is running a group, and Seth, his name is an analyst running this group on in neuroscience, studying the nature of consciousness. And I think we're starting to make some some progress in understanding what is the meaning of self. You know what? We don't think conscience is, is something other than what's in the brain. It's not like, you know, you have your grey matter. It's just just a, you know, chemistry and then you sprinkle pixie dust and suddenly become self-aware and, you know, and I'm not a religious person, so I don't believe in, you know, the mind body problem, but I think there's a soul or something like that, a seeds of consciousness is just a problem that has has been going for so long. You know, philosophers are still asking the question about the nature of free will we just machines, you know, or do we have the ability to make decisions of what we feel is that we have decisions that, you know, we can make decisions freely ourselves. But is it all just is it all just atoms bumping into each other at the end of the day? And if it isn't, what else is it? Yeah, you know what is beyond just the you know, we are more than just complicated computers. We know that. So what is the difference? What is the difference between animate matter? A living organism and inanimate matter of equivalent complexity? There wasn't much between a live mouse and a recently deceased mouse. They're both made of the same atoms and molecules, you know, combined in the same complex structure. But in one case it's alive and one case is dead. What is that difference? It's not magic. And it's a spark of life issue that, you know, vitalism that scientists used to think 200 years ago. Well, that's we know that's not the case. You know, we should be able to explain life. Biologists I don't know if they like this or not, but we should be able to explain biology using the laws of physics and chemistry, because what else is there? Yeah, just maybe that it's just maybe that those laws of physics, chemistry that it's been like we have yet to properly understand, but it can't. What else could it be? Yeah. The way you've talked about it in the book and I've heard John Joe talked about before, is you have all these billions of connections that the World Wide Web, for example, and just because you have all those connections necessarily give rise to like thought, thoughts or self-awareness. So how is that different to the fleshy bits that we have in our skull that that emits energy that we can measure with EEG? Like where is that? Where is that the difference there? And can you measure sparks of consciousness? I mean, we know the difference between asynchronous and synchronous firing when you measure edges and get pupil details and stuff. But it is is that the current theory around where consciousness arises? The energy is is the production of of of those neurones firing. Yes. Or the way they're connected up in a neural nets. I mean we don't think that it should be possible to build a conscious mind after something other than biological building blocks. You know, a a computer could be conscious. There's there's no reason there's no laws of science that tell you it can't it we still believe it is a matter of complexity of emergence at the moment. Our our best artificial intelligence is can they can beat us at chess. But that's pretty sort of mechanistic. All you know, if this then that sort of thing and they are starting to sort, you know, the very advanced alloys that are being developed today are starting to show signs of original sort of creativity. In a sense, they're able to. Yeah, Yeah, they're able to, yeah. You know, to, to, to generate music, to generate art to, to fight to, to find patterns that we find difficult to find but is still at a rudimentary level. We just you know, my view is this is what's called strong. I think the idea that there's no sort of hard and fast rule that says a machine couldn't one day think, be conscious, be self-aware. It's just that we're a very long way away from that because we don't think there's anything fit in it, whether it's energy, whether it's whether it's the neural net connections of neurones in the brain, whatever. It's so complex that that that consciousness is an emergent feature of the brain. You know, we're conscious a cat is less conscious and an ant is less conscious. You know, consciousness isn't a switch this on or off, it's a dimmer switch in. It can be made brighter or dimmer depending on the complexity of the structure of the brain. But how it emerges, what it how it originates, that is something we still don't understand. That's still one of the big mysteries of science. So yeah, I understand that to an extent. It should be said that the more neural connections you have, the more the more firing you have, the more likely you are to have this emergent ability to create original thought. And that's why you have a hierarchy of animals. And we can create rudimentary tools. We can create computers, not me personally, but, you know, generally. But that's that's sort of the hierarchy of things. But given the way technology is, is growing exponentially, I mean, you mentioned you have we have computers that can be asset chess. We also have those that can be a set go now, which is a far more complicated game, and then it's going to get more and more over the next hundred, 200 years just because you have more connections that suddenly mean that you're going to that consciousness is going to develop or does it require something else? Because the way I see it is more connection doesn't necessarily mean suddenly consciousness. Sparks No, I don't think consciousness will will spark. There isn't a point at which you can say this computer or this A.I. algorithm is now self-aware. It's a very it's a it's a smooth, smooth transition. You know, the very early eyes that organisations like DeepMind that developed the AI that beat the best the world master, the Chinese game of Go, they started those AIS practice them on 1980s Atari video games. Yeah yeah and there's this wonderful that they you know did a TV documentary about this two or three years ago. So I went and filmed there I was talking to them now the game breakout where you've got some a brick wall at the top of the screen and with a paddle you're sort of bouncing the ball that knocks away the bricks. Well, this I, I mean, I'm it figured out that if you aim the ball at the corner, it could keep breaking break and breaking it until it could get behind the wall. Yeah. And then it's bouncing up and down on the wall and it's much more efficient at removing it more quickly. And once it did that by accident and it works, it learnt that that was the way to do it. And then every time you'd run it, it would, it would do that because it's, you know, that started to be Buddhism, It was what's called machine learning built into it that this is a more efficient way. So that's a very first rudimentary step of seeing a problem, finding a way of solving it, and learning from that is that that trick wasn't programmed into the AI by a human. The human program. I just said, there's a ball bounce. This ball until you knock away all the bricks of the ball rewards for doing it more quickly. Yeah, yeah, definitely so. So I think the consciousness is something that will gradually, gradually emerge. It's not that you get to a certain point. You say, Well, this is as far as we can go with complexity. We we need an extra ingredient. Now, the magic pixie, to make it self-aware, make it conscious. I don't think that is the case. I think that is something that just will gradually emerge when something becomes complex enough. Yeah, yeah. It's super interesting case, I think, because it's perhaps my rudimentary mind. It's almost like what when you when you give a computer a task like break out where you're trying to break as many bricks as you can with minimal touches on the paddle, then the computer reward itself for those behaviours. So okay, when I hit it in this direction, I got 100 bricks versus two bricks of another way. So ergo I'm going to carry on doing that because you've given it a task to complete. And the same thing with games and all the rest of it. But the jump from that to artificial general intelligence, that's where they decide to play a completely different game that that that's, that's like a like a. Huge Yeah yeah huge jump It's a huge jump but I think that's because it's, it's we shouldn't see it as a jump. We should see it as a very long way down a road move. We have to go. It's a continuum, you know, it is bit like you know, people were didn't like evolution theory because you know, the missing link and how can you go from this? You know, to us it was because it's a gradual thing. You know, we evolve slowly and complexity builds up. I think with consciousness, we're going to find it's a simple sort of thing. It doesn't it doesn't suddenly you don't suddenly get to artificial general intelligence where they're thinking in the same way that, you know, we think that you can always imagine them, you know, reaching a point that's the same as some simple insects that that were, you know, that that if this then that if this happens, they've got to go find food over there. If that prey comes, I, I disappears genetically sort of built it and then it has to follow certain procedures. You can imagine artificial intelligence reaching that stage. Well, if it can reach that stage, after all, the worm and the insects are part of the tree of life and there's nothing magical that happened between them and us. Just a long time. Yeah. Then I think it's a similar sort of similar sort of argument. Yeah. So it's just basically that time is the only limiting factor to what we. And we and most A.I. researchers, I think today would agree that we will at some point, you know, age will will achieve artificial general intelligence. They'll be as clever as us and very quickly surpass us. What they argue about is when that will happen. You know, the most optimistic will say ten, 20 years, the most pessimistic will say a thousand years. The average, which the majority on the bell curve set is probably maybe the end of the century. Wow. So we have to worry about it yet. But we should we should think and, well, start thinking about it seriously. You do not want the Terminator right? Well, yeah, exactly. And wherever it just thinks of the Terminator movies, like we're so inefficient. We take a lot of resources. You know, if we're programming for a healthy, a clean a society, then the obvious option is to get rid of the polluting humans. So yeah, that's where you get the idea of the Terminator. And, you know, I'm thinking about it through the lens of a physician. So already we're seeing in so many different ways, so pattern recognition, looking at MRI scans when I mean, Amy, for example, that would be incredible. You know, to have something that is almost like a fact checker we see in skin pattern consumable tools that people can take pictures of the most. So I as a GP don't have to look all over the body, you know, get them in every three or six months. And then we also see logistics as well where we can actually patch and recognise such that we can predict when your EKG machine needs new paper or needs maintenance or endoscopes, prevent them from breaking down. What I what I'm, I wouldn't say I'm concerned about, but what I'm I'm very interested in to see is whether computers can actually take over the role of a of a physician. What do you think about that. I think is a huge ethical minefield. You know, the similar example is with driverless cars. You know, if we can have driverless cars that can, you know, they scan the road, they know what's happening. They're very safe. As soon as driverless car runs, someone over, there'd be an outcry. The fact that they might have reduced road accidents by 90 plus per cent we tend to ignore. But it's okay. You know, for human to to to run someone over as human error. But don't get a machine to do it because somehow it's is different. So I think we do have this concern that allies we don't want it to take over because it loses the human touch. It's almost a it's a it's a somewhat illogical really to to to think about it in that way. But I mean, to give you an example, very recently I remember hearing a talk from Zan van Tulleken, you know, identical twins that was at the science festival. And he was talking about, I, I think it was part of a BBC Horizon that he presented a few years ago. But there was a study in America where they're looking at people who attempt to take their lives and don't succeed. And of course, then they go to therapy or though they go to their doctor and, you know, how do you as a as as as a physician or psychiatrist, predict the likelihood that they will try and try again to take their lives? You know, and you've got to take into account their state of mind, their environment, you know, their medical history and so on. They they developed this AI system that could take in so many of these factors so quickly and analyse them so much more carefully than a human could. And It reduced the the probability of re attempting to many of these patients re attempt to take their lives by a huge amount. So was saving lives. And yet, you know, understandably we feel very uncomfortable of having a computer decide on whether to section someone or whether to say no, you can go back home, you're okay. So the thing is that that's those sort of decisions about about we don't we're not we're a long way from from being ready to hand over responsibility for our health, our lives, the lives of our loved ones to a machine. Yeah. Even then, even though, logically, it's. It's much more reliable than a human. Yeah. Yeah. And I think this is a generational thing because the more I see or don't recognise that Gen Z right. Yes, I'm often a boomer, so. I just scraped into the millennial bracket. So I'm, I'm going to keep to that. So I mean I witness, you know, these, these young people coming in to consider on their phones that everything they know is through the medium of the Internet, particularly over the last year and a half as well. So I think we're naturalising into an environment where computers play a huge, huge role. And some people that I've spoken to would feel quite comfortable with having a diagnostic tool that is powered by and I, I think there's going to be almost like a transition period where we use computers almost like an Iron Man suit, where, you know, it can help me better detect someone's blood results if it's reviewed. And then I also do another pass through the results as well and deliver the results with that sort of added security. And then maybe at some point down the line, there will be a complete take out almost. Yeah, I know. I think I think absolutely that's what's happened in surgery as well. So robotic eyes controlling robotic surgery procedure. But you need a human that you want a human there as well at the same time. But you know, you're right. You know, we're already used to eyes on Netflix telling us what what film we probably want to watch next, you know? Yeah. So it was scanned, scanned my viewing history and decided these are the sorts of films I like. And sure enough, you know, we are starting to take these eyes that are chugging away in the background, whether it's social media, whether it's somewhere, something on the Internet, whether it's to do with health and medicine and it's is happening. And it's remarkable how quickly we, you know, even those who haven't grown up in the Internet, Internet generation, it's remarkable how quickly people do just accept these new technologies that are coming at us so quickly. Hey, no hoo hoo hoo to thoughts. 20 years ago, we were walking around with iPhones now already of in the last decade or less. You know, it's become normal that we've got a pocket supercomputer that used to be just you know, you could only see it in Star Trek. Yeah. Yeah. And it, you know, with the with things like Neuralink and all the other products that people are thinking about in terms of inserting the Internet and then having the capabilities of all that knowledge. I mean, it's exciting and and scary. Yeah, but, but, but, but again, you know, it's it's a progression from, you know, wearing glasses and this is technology to enhance my my my natural physic physical abilities you know so or you if you have a replacement hip or knee you know you've done something intervention so why not intervene somewhere in the brain that's part of your body as well. It's just that it's, you know, these things always take some time, too, for us to sort of get used to, I think now, okay. Now at this point, I'm used to it now. It's okay. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, having a pocket computer, I mean, everyone's got access to the Internet right now and it's just a very short jump to. Okay, well, maybe I'll take my chances. Yeah. Isn't in my head and not now. I can just. And then the communication as well. I mean, you know, talking of the future. So you, you, you still very much involved in academia. I mean, you've got a student coming on off to visit. You're going to be having a chat with. What are you working on now? Well, I've got a number of Ph.Ds, so but, you know, 5 to 10 years ago, I really thought my my, my days of doing academic research in theoretical physics were sort of coming to an end because I was doing a lot of TV work, radio work, and, you know, sort of acting as a sort of science communicator. I still teach I mean, I've I've taught undergraduate physics students at University of Surrey now for an unbroken stretch of 29 years. Now, normally academics take these sabbaticals every few years, right, to go off and separate. But my life has been a sabbatical because I, you know, I teach, but I go off gallivanting to to do documentaries and so on. So I haven't felt the need to sit for that break. But in recent years, I've I've got back more in volved in research and quantum biology. The subject of the book, John McFadden Life on the Edge is very much our our area of research and actually as we're recording this, this podcast, even though it won't go out just yet, but as of now, in mid-June, we I've just been awarded a large research grant from an American charity worth $3 Million to to, to work on exactly the stuff that we're talking about. What is the connection between the quantum world and the classical world? How does the quantum become classical? What is the what's the nature of measurement? What is the nature of time? I mean, that's the title of the project is The Arrow of Time. You know, we are conscious of past as being distinct from future. There's an asymmetry there. You know, time is not reversible in space. Things are reversible. I can walk from A to B, but I can get back from B to A, but I can't go from today to tomorrow and then come back to today again. So where does that irreversibility of time come from, given that at the fundamental level, the laws of physics don't have an arrow of time, everything is reversible. And so this is a big grant which involves multiple institutions. Sorry is leading it, but we have in Oxford and Bristol, in the UK three universities in the US, UC UCLA, UC San Diego and Arizona State. We have physicists, chemists, mathematicians, philosophers, you know, all, all looking at different aspects of how the quantum world becomes the classical world and what its implications are to life and the nature of time, you know, so exciting stuff. I suspect I'm going to be very because I'm, because I'm leading on it. And that also means I've got a big admin responsibility as well. Yeah. So I suspect, you know, whether I'll have time to, you know, go off as and when I want. It's probably less likely over the coming years. But push comes to shove. That is my job. I know you know, a lot of people know me say from presenting a life scientific on radio four but actually the day job as a quantum physicist. So I'll carry on doing the radio stuff, but I'm also doing more research now. It sounds amazing. I can totally see a documentary coming out of this as well for TV or just for that roster with a different structure to this with. Sort of half promise. The charity who's funding this because they said what's going to come out of it? And there's a big outreach part to the research and I've sort of hinted that you know, I know a few exec producers for TV are too, who'd put a proposal together to send this in the documentary. Who who funded it is another matter, maybe Netflix or Amazon Prime owing more money than the BBC. Yeah, I know I would. I would love to watch it being done in live as well, like building this in public, you know, going through the whole thing, you know, doing a YouTube channel of it and actually doing like weekly or monthly stints where like this is where at the moment this is the next step. You know, I think that would be fascinating. Good idea. Yeah, I'll take that. I'll just leave. Right. That that. Please do that. Honestly, I would love that. I think I think building in public these days is is the new medium because we're very we're quite voyeuristic I think as humans we that's why I like social media and Instagram stories and all that kind of stuff has taken off because we are inherently so curious about how that how other people do things, how other people live. And I think with a project like that, it would be incredible to see the journey unfold and I think you'd see a lot of people interested. Yeah, definitely worth thinking about. Thank you. Also, this has been fascinating. Thank you so much for taking time out of your busy schedule. Like I said, I listen to radio forwards. I've watched your TEDx talk and some of the lectures that you've given at the Royal Institute as well that are absolutely fascinating. And it's yeah, it's been it's been brilliant. Well, thank you very much. I've enjoyed the chat.