(volcanoes rumbling) (dramatic music) - [Narrator] Volcanoes are a yet 500 million people live at the foot of these fire monsters. - I think there's definitely a feeling that the gods are speaking - [Narrator] Faced with their When all seems lost, they - Many volcanoes are themselves regarded as the gods, or the house of the spirits. - [Narrator] How do men give meaning to this unleashing of the elements? Offerings, ceremonies, processions. All over the globe, crowds - It's a natural landmark. It's an attraction, and It's a gateway to somewhere else. (people shouting in foreign language) - [Narrator] For millennia, lead an incredible odyssey. A spiritual journey into a volcanic world populated by deities and spirits. (dramatic music) (soothing music) (volcano rumbling) Indonesia has more than Since the 15th century, Mount Bromo, located in the southeast has been venerated by which sees the volcano as the embodiment of the Hindu god Brahma. (gentle music) Each year, the Kasada ceremony after a dizzying ascent, (dramatic music) (speaking foreign language) This annual procession is the highlight of the religious life of this community. (gentle music) At the foot of the sacred volcano, Kadi, a Hindu priest, by gathering water filtered He is the guardian of - [Translator] I am a priest I come to fetch holy water so that you may protect us (soothing music) - Volcanoes are incredibly dynamic places, so I think if you live by them, you have to try and explain They want the volcano gods to be happy. They want the gods to leave kind of satisfied, and not angry. And of course, the flip when the volcano does erupt, the volcano gods have and that's a real problem for people. - Natural phenomena are often linked with spirituality, I think, because the phenomena is something that is so awe-inspiring that I think we all seek to And I think that's why, quite often, there's a spiritual relationship, because of the intense that there is around volcanoes, but also just the raw power when they start to erupt. (volcano rumbling) - [Narrator] Mount Bromo erupts, on average, every five years. The volcano's intense activity in a thick layer of ash. This volcanic dust covers everything, giving birth to vast lunar landscapes. (soothing music) Yet for the hundreds of who live at its feet, Mount (birds chirping) The minerals in its ashes feed the soils, and guarantee abundant harvests. Atsoko feeds his whole family, thanks to the fertility (speaking foreign language) - [Translator] The fruits of your labors must be brought back to the Bromo volcano. That is the meaning of the Kasada prayer. Each year, we must bring our harvest as an offering to the volcano, because otherwise it For here on Bromo, we do not It just takes our harvest, sweet potatoes, and also chilies. It's a duty. Everyone must participate. (soothing music) - I think what we have is to separate nature from We've tried to separate but in many other cultures nature and people are very much together. And you find that in many cultures in other parts of the world. You find that people consider themselves to be part of nature, and therefore, that nature is responding to things that they do. (gentle music) (lively music) - [Narrator] As a sign of gratitude, the Tenggers return some of During the night, Kadi, gather to pray and bless the offerings with the holy water gathered (lively music) (dramatic music) In the early morning, driven the devotees begin their assault on the steep slopes of the volcano. At the end of a grueling ascent, the vast, eruptive mouth is (dramatic music) The offerings are thrown straight into the volcano's smoking crater. - Bromo's is a very spectacular volcano. There's a Hindu temple right but the offerings that are made kind of syncretic belief systems where animism blends with monotheism, or in this case in Hinduism. - These kinds of offerings that people can influence the So their spiritual belief in this volcano, and if then they will continue to protect us. (dramatic music) And you see this from Indonesia to Italy. You see it in almost Even today, in many parts of the world, where scientific beliefs are dominant. (crowd cheering) (intense music) (fireworks popping) - [Narrator] Etna is the largest an immutable landmark With more than 100 eruptions the Mongibello, as the Sicilians call it, has left a lasting impression on the most sulfurous (volcano rumbling) At its feet, the city of Catania, and its 300,000 inhabitants with the living mountain. Matilde Russo was born and she is passionate about its history. - [Translator] Etna is the Elsewhere in the world, to tell them which way is north. Etna does that job for us. (volcano rumbling) - [Narrator] This extraordinarily spits forth immense waves of lava. Regularly, the inhabitants of Catania are threatened by its fits of rage. - Mount Etna in Sicily is a it's a very large mountain, and if you live in a village then there's a chance that lava flow will run into your village. And so the stories about what people did to respond to the become a part of the oral history, or the religious observances - [Narrator] When the lava the inhabitants turn to their According to legend, it was against the eruption in 1639. The biggest in recorded memory. (intense music) Since then, hundreds of have gathered each year to express their gratitude, to their holy protector. (speaking foreign language) - [Translator] Legend the outer walls, there was a chapel with a picture of Saint Agatha inside. The chapel was destroyed, but the picture began and indicated the Just then, the lava and instead of destroying and poured into the sea. (pleasant music) - [Narrator] Burnt as the patron saint's to the incandescent (people clapping) The inhabitants of Their prayers will convince Saint Agatha to protect the city - They have this thing called so when they know about that threatens them, the scientists tell them to do, but they'll also go into prayer. They'll pray, and they Whether science works, or religion works. So there's a wonderful duality about people's belief systems in science, and belief systems in (speaking foreign language) (bells jingle) - [Narrator] For three the Sicilians chant the name of Agatha, and implore her protection. (fireworks popping) (volcano booming) (dramatic music) In Guatemala, the same Christian faith has mobilized crowds for centuries, and many processions punctuate the religious life of the communities. But in this volcanic land, the link to the giants of and has its roots in the Those of the Mayan civilization. Lake Atitlan was born - One of the largest eruptions was the Los Chocoyos eruption which formed Lake Atitlan. The lake occupies a large caldera formed in this colossal event. (birds chirping) - [Narrator] This lake of the Mayan civilization, which found wealth and Today, overlooked by it nourishes the spiritual A stone's throw away, a and is shaking the region (ominous music) Appearing in 1922, in permanent activity. Its crater continuously pumps (soothing music) For the inhabitants who live at its feet, it is Mother Earth expressing herself, and speaking to them. (flames crackling) (speaking foreign language) Mario is a shaman. He interprets these volcanic messages, and advocates a spiritual life in harmony with the telluric forces. (speaking foreign language) - [Translator] Today in the Mayan calendar is (speaking foreign This is a Mayan ceremony. We are honoring the volcano, and invoking our In reality through its the volcano is trying It's expressing itself. (flames crackling) It's like the volcano is talking to us. It's saying, here I am. (conches bellowing) (drums banging) - [Narrator] For Mario, is a highly symbolic moment. - [Translator] (speaking foreign language) is when the volcano erupts. There, we are in harmony. The volcano is speaking, From this, I understand that living matter, and living energy. And it tells me that everything on the surface of the earth is alive. (soothing music) - They are incredibly inspirational because of the different and they make you understand and realize where you are in terms of - I think for communities particularly active volcanoes, it's obvious that they're that they see somehow into their cosmology that they hold, their worldview, the way they perceive things. (singing in foreign language) (steam hissing) - [Narrator] Behind the and crowds chanting their fervor, it is sometimes in the greatest privacy the devotees of volcanoes Confidential ceremonies, opens up to the spirits that in salutary seclusion. (dramatic music) Ecuador is crossed by the largest volcanic chain on the planet. Its highest volcano, Cotopaxi, is a landmark for an entire people. - If you're living on the it's an attraction, it's and it's also a kind of portal. It's a gateway to somewhere else. (flames crackling) - [Narrator] Santiago a traditional tent that - [Translator] So, you and I'll go on the other side. - [Translator] Like - [Translator] Pull a little more. Pull a little more. - [Narrator] The position of the temazcal is not chosen at random. The traditional tent is in order to capture its energies. These energies are at the center of their living traditional medicine. - [Translator] We begin by towards the volcano so that there is a straight the fire, and the temazcal, The construction is part of the ceremony. At this precise moment, we are already in full ceremony. In a way, it is asking may return to our people. We want this ancestral medicine that the Spanish conquest and colonization have tried to erase, or make us forget, to continue to exist and be very present. (flames crackling) - [Translator] The volcano is a synthesis of all the elements, because all the oppositions that by contrast, form the Water, fire, white, black, male, female. We are constantly in this The volcano condenses all that. Without fire, without (dramatic music) - [Narrator] Temazcal is a By heating the volcanic the shaman comes into contact with, and lets himself be possessed by Apu, sacred spirit of the volcano. This ritual enables him to heal many ailments of body and mind. (speaking foreign language) - [Translator] Temazcal The ritual is performed in a circular hut, which represents a mother's womb. It makes it possible to kill evil, and let good be reborn. (speaking foreign language) In the temazcal, the to form a universe together. (somber music) We heat the stones, so that they regain their wisdom of the early times, and that's why we plunge them (percussive music) With the water, we make steam, which purifies the energies The people's energies. (singing in foreign language) (gentle music) - One of the ways of explaining and explaining volcanic phenomena, is to ascribe those phenomena to gods. So here we have gods behind the natural world, and the behavior of the for the way the volcanoes are behaving. (dramatic music) - [Narrator] In the pantheon of volcanoes, each living mountain - It's very common, I think, to think of volcanoes as Personification is something naturally do, and very often will talk about them as either a he, or actually more commonly in the places where I've worked, as a she. And she, who has a temper, that she is not afraid to express. (singing in foreign language) (drums banging) (percussive music) - [Narrator] The volcanic is home to the world's most (waves crashing) Its lava flows are expanding the island by several (dramatic music) Hawaiians see this prodigious activity as the work of the goddess, Pele, mistress of fire, earth, and volcanoes. (dramatic music) For millennia, the divinity pulled flames from the depths, and erected mountains above the sea. - The goddess Pele is the She has a retinue of lovers, and there are many, many and about her anger. (volcanoes rumbling) - [Narrator] The Hawaiians to the rages of their goddess. They see her not as a source With each eruption, layer upon layer, Pele provides new lands. (dramatic music) For generations, Pilani's the creative movement that transforms the face Several times their village, Kalapana, has been swept away by lava flows. But each eruption has (dramatic music) (flames crackling) - In 1986, is when the first and so the lava came all the and that's the highway. That used to be the old Kalapana Road. And so we were told that But my grandmother, she said no. Not yet. So, she told us to go and clean the yard. Clean the inside of the house, and she said, &quot;We are &quot;A very, very important guest. &quot;And if this guest wants to stay, &quot;she can have whatever &quot;This is for her.&quot; (soothing music) - [Narrator] Under the benevolent the inhabitants of Kalapana a way of life, a part. - What appears instinctively to be a disaster, or catastrophe, is not necessarily regarded that way in other parts of the world. But many of these people They don't want to move, because they don't want They don't want to leave their houses, and often they have religious beliefs that help to rationalize that. So volcanoes have become and that it was accepted really as part of the rhythm of the culture. So that you had cycles and then periods of destruction. Periods of good life, and (soothing music) - [Narrator] Hidden in the lava lake, Halemaumau, is an open window on the In this vast, magmatic cauldron, jets of lava burst forth and melting into the original magma. (conch bellowing) The island's inhabitants, who as much as they fear her, have been dancing and singing This fervor has given birth to an art form that is The secular tradition of hula. (conch bellowing) - Pele is a creative goddess. The Hawaiian people, we She is a loving goddess. She gives us beautiful land all the time. It's a gift from her, really. She destroys some land, but over the old land, so it is a gift we feel to us. (singing in foreign language) - It's all about that respect. Respect for nature, respect and so the Hawaiians have (ominous music) We have a name for every So, it's not just about Pele. It's about the relationship every element that surrounds us. (ominous music) (waves crashing) (dramatic music) - [Narrator] In Tanzania, another god has made his home in a volcano. - Many volcanoes are themselves or the house of the spirits, and in the case of Ol for example, the name - [Narrator] The mountain creator god, source of all things. Wenga is a young warrior. He regularly climbs to to attract the god's favor. - [Translator] Ol Doinyo The fact that it is called god isn't down to its crater hole, For us Maasai, we believe that God has given us God has given us everything. (dramatic music) - [Narrator] Engai created the savanna, and the herds that live there. He also created the Maasai, (goats bleating) (singing in foreign language) At the foot of the living mountain, the traditional songs ring out and mingle with the roars The volcano is their landmark, a lighthouse in this - [Translator] Ol Doinyo Lengai helps us. We make sacrifices for him. We sacrifice goats, among other things, and that allows women to become fertile. Is that not a benefit? So there is a god. Yes, there is a god who makes the rain. God makes the rain. (pleasant music) - Ol Doinyo Lengai volcano in Of course, they're all unique, but Lengai is particularly unusual. It's the only volcano on the planet that erupts washing soda. So it has carbonate lavas, which we do see back in geological time, but (volcano rumbling) Lengai also erupts the runniest lavas that we've observed on earth. They are so fluid it just sloshing across the ground. And on eruption, they form on the ground, but over they hydrate in the atmosphere, and turn a kind of white, and become very, very crumbly. - [Narrator] This white is sacred for the Maasai. (dramatic music) The Laibon, spiritual contacts Engai by means (dramatic music) Before each ascent, Mawenga (speaking foreign language) - [Translator] I shall make My calabashes will tell me. - [Translator] There, in the mountains. Everything is clear. I can give you my blessing. (pleasant music) - It's one of the steepest Really is one where as you go two steps up and and you just try and keep going. And then you look down from the edge, and it's incredibly vertiginous. The slopes just drop away from you. So it's very dramatic. (dramatic music) (speaking foreign language) - [Translator] I arrived and I feel very well. I've just arrived without any It's really wonderful. (gentle music) - There's no other setting on earth, there's no other place where you get such a vivid demonstration of the power of something under your feet that is much more immense - Volcanoes are aesthetically appealing, and they can be wonderful (gentle music) The volcano becomes your it becomes a part of your life to have it on your doorstep. (soothing music) - [Narrator] In Japan, volcanoes occupy a central place in Shinto traditions. Here, the Japanese have developed an intimate personal link Shintoism considers where spirits, kamis, reside. Guardians of a place, protect a forest, lodge under a waterfall, or nestle at the top of a volcano. Mr. Honda has a particularly strong bond with these spirits of nature, and his neighbor, Mount Unzen. At the foot of this volcano, one of the most active in Japan, this man maintains a mystical relationship with the living mountain. (speaking foreign language) - [Translator] Mount But he also makes us feel a by belonging to this earth. He makes us want to be (dramatic music) - [Narrator] Inhabitant of Shimabara, Mr. Honda lived through of the early 1990s. The Unzen is known worldwide for its deadly pyroclastic flow. For more than five years, have burned and destroyed (wind whistling) (eerie music) (insects chirping) (gentle music) His home, the nearest one to the Unzen, is the only one in the neighborhood to have escaped the damage Today, trees uprooted by the eruptions have come back to life in (speaking foreign language) - [Translator] This is a camphor tree. It symbolizes survival. It reminds me of the disaster. It was damaged by trees We had to cut it down, and I My garden has several such damaged trees. Like this mulberry, for instance. According to the I inherited the feeling of wanting to take root I listened to them, and I stayed. This mountain is the center (somber music) People lead a normal life. Even if the volcano begins to erupt again, or another disaster happens, this is the place where Only here does my spirit (somber music) - I became interested in how and had rationalized the and volcanic eruptions in the past. So I heard stories about how there were gods inside volcanoes, were the results of gods' activities, and I thought, this is needs to try and understand. We need to try and not simply to dismiss them. (dramatic music) - [Narrator] When it comes to volcanoes, religion and science People on the slopes forge myths, and legends, while volcanologists decipher using the tools of modern science. But the line between these two visions is finer than it may appear. (dramatic music) (chanting in foreign language) In New Zealand, the in the folds of the volcanoes. They populate the hot springs and steep reliefs of the living mountains. For the Maoris, these places are taboo, which means sacred. When a team of volcanologists wants to study the volcano, Ruapehu, one of the most mythical in New Zealand, it is accompanied by the who lives at its foot. Here, science and religion Before the operation begins, to the spirits that Under the aegis of the great Ruapehu, ancient tradition meets modern science. (speaking foreign language) For the scientists too, Its anger is often unpredictable. Thanks to a close dialogue who live at the foot of the volcano, the scientists hope to learn more about the eruptive history of Ruapehu. The legendary stories of this people, handed down from generation to generation are full of valuable clues to (wind whistling) - [Translator] In New are really working together. At the scientific level, we're the technology we have, to understand what's going and what might happen in the future. But the Maoris are helping us that took place in the past. So this harmony between the two allows us to compare what we have with technology, and what they have with traditions. And together, it lets us really understand what's going on in the volcano, and what might happen in the future. - I think there doesn't I think there can be an accommodation, and that's why in a lot of places, there's a lot of dialogue going on between the volcano scientists, and the authorities, and with on volcanoes to be able to communicate in terms that a population - One of the things and the communities who during a volcanic eruption is uncertainty. Uncertainty about what's And it's very important then for the communities and the volcanologists to have a dialogue, is share the knowledge that we have, and share our understanding so that everybody can make decisions that are gonna work best for them in the fact of that activity. (eerie music) - [Narrator] The men of come together around their and share a deep respect for (soothing music) - With us, as Maori, it's never, It's always just been about (speaking foreign language) just means taking care of the surroundings There is one saying that was said by our latest chief, chief's and he addressed New Zealand by saying, (speaking foreign language) which means all living things But when the sun rises the next day, the mountains and the And so based on that, I always alert everybody with, and I believe knowledge brings respect, and respect will bring awareness. And with those three words, our lands and our surroundings (dramatic music) - [Narrator] Volcanoes to unleash their power But as long as man walks the earth, he will carry in his soul the (dramatic music) - For thousands of years, people have used their belief systems to Science has come along in Volcano science has come along So why should people give up thousands of years of understanding just because some expert and tells them how a volcano works? That doesn't seem very sensible to me. (dramatic music)