In 1995, a company by the name of had some pretty amazing claims; It was a piece of software called SoftRAM, Windows." It claimed to double your computer's hassle and expense of getting actual With SoftRAM, 4 megabytes becomes 8 16 megabytes. There's no need for hard RAM because desktop and laptop computers, and with its one-click, one-time it was ideal for those computer users who intensive programs right away. Sounds incredible, right? Well, the only thing was... [ Music ] This is a brand new copy of SoftRAM that I Today, we're gonna open up this software years ago. The version I have here is the first release It was released in May of 1995, three The contents of the box are contained Opening this up reveals a pamphlet that There is an instruction manual, a and yeah, apparently, Syncronys sold actually get by sending this card in. And finally, one single floppy disk that Alright, so that's what you would get in the what did it actually install on your When you insert the floppy disk and run the see is a splash screen saying, "Congratulations on purchasing The setup wizard itself is extremely basic; It will ask you for your name and company, install the program. Since the entire program is contained on a requires 950 kilobytes of hard drive space. This also means that the program installs Once it finishes copying files, a message 15,360 kilobytes of "Extended RAM." And that's it. The wizard then prompts you to restart so we'll do that. Upon logging back into Windows, you'll see splash screen that will display every time Now the SoftRAM program itself is pretty All of the quote-unquote "functionality" of single screen. Here we have two gauges. One showing the amount of soft RAM that and the other showing the amount of free The center contains stats about how memory, and total memory that the When SoftRAM is running, the gauge on Now you'll notice that the soft RAM and about the same. This machine has 16 megabytes of RAM. SoftRAM is saying that it's giving the RAM, meaning that the system should All of the program's controls are application. The arrows on the left allow you to RAM available to the system. Next to that, we have a button that enables The most basic options menu I've ever have the application stay on top of other And finally, the help documentation. SoftRAM also includes a readme document exact same info as the help It goes into more detail about how the Or at least, allegedly, works. There's actually a decent amount of It talks about virtual memory and how SoftRAM claims to dynamically compress by using its RAM analyst tool to calculate It also claims to defragment memory in memory. It basically makes it sound like it's a of software. The problem is though, the program So that begs the question: What does SoftRAM actually do? Well, the short answer is... not much. In late 1995, numerous publications SoftRAM's claims. One German publication did a very Despite the fact that the program claimed "patent-pending compression technology," it in fact did not even attempt to perform SoftRAM's interface essentially falsified the You weren't going to get double memory or you configured the application. The only thing the program really did was The page file, commonly also known as virtual memory that is stored on the hard It allows the operating system to store RAM capacity has been exhausted. But the thing is, you could easily do this Yeah, you heard me right. This piece of junk sold for $80, at least The Windows 3.1 version sold for a much SoftRAM 95 was released right when The installer is pretty much the same along Aside from the 95 branding, the two And just like the original version of attempt to compress any memory or I'm not exactly sure what made Syncronys this version of the program was When these reports started to surface, it of SoftRAM for Windows 95 did not work something that Syncronys actually But upon further investigation, people SoftRAM for Windows 3.1 also does not Despite all of this, Syncronys was able to of SoftRAM between May and December These people purchased SoftRAM but just as effective alternative to memory upgrade on your system. I mean, the FAQ document even has the exactly like physical RAM, and that it "effectively doubles the amount applications." As you can imagine, it didn't take long for The Federal Trade Commission started an end of 1995. The published report analyzed SoftRAM's "SoftRAM 95 does not ..." The report also found that "Microsoft Inc.," which yeah, by the way, guys, that was not "has not licensed, endorsed, or otherwise Windows 95." Now this is noteworthy, because on put the "Designed for Windows 95" logo, something that can only be put on logo testing program. Now in that article that I mentioned get approval to use the logo... but in September of 1995. A Microsoft employee quoted in the same saying that while Syncronys did submit a the version they actually shipped was an not submitted for testing. I will leave the full article down below in It's definitely worth a read if you want to performed on the program and how the SoftRAM didn't do anything it claimed to When reports of SoftRAM's lack of refer to the product as "placebo software," a program that relies on the placebo hoping that the user by simply seeing a doubled" will simply believe it, and attribute any faster performance they to SoftRAM doing just what it said it I mean, it had the "Designed for Windows approved by Microsoft. Right? In 1996, Syncronys, faced not only with an lawsuits from customers, decided to While I wasn't able to find the exact or had to pay in these lawsuits, they did pay a rebate to any SoftRAM user that So it all worked out in the end, right? Well, no, not really. The crazy thing is this rebate was only Yeah, so, unfortunately, nobody got 100% except possibly for those customers who But it's likely that Syncronys wasn't even The company filed for bankruptcy in 1998, with over $4.5 million in debt and only In an interview with CNET, Hayley Ramer, Syncronys tried to bounce back from the utilities in the late '90s. But the damage had already been done. Despite the fact that the company's CEO were history, people didn't forget the SoftRAM incident. And for a company that released a it claimed to do... This video is brought to you by Zyro, the easy-to-use website builder that websites in no time. Even if you don't know anything about Zyro makes it easy to get started by templates specifically tailored to various Using one of these templates, I was able to channel in just under an hour. All the elements you see on-screen can and Zyro's drag-and-drop interface makes Something that I find cool is how Zyro accomplish tasks. Need to quickly generate a paragraph of Check out Zyro's AI writer. Want to predict how your site visitors will The AI heat map has you covered. But website creation isn't the only thing One thing that goes great with a new and Zyro has you covered here as well. Not only that, you can also create a new Want to know the best part? You can get started with Zyro today for But if you want to get access to more check out one of their paid plans starting That's all for today's episode. I hope you all enjoyed the bizarre but If you did, be sure to give this video a like And if any of you guys out there be sure to let us know if you actually got I want to thank all of you so much for in the next video. [ Music ]