It's December the 4th, 1950 and Lieut. Thomas J. Hudner is flying his F4U Corsair above the forests and mountains of North Korea deep into enemy territory. All is not well. His element leader and friend, Ensign Jesse L. Brown, has been forced to crash his Corsair on a mountainside after taking damage from enemy fire. The weather is bitterly cold and enemy forces are in the area and almost certainly on their way to capture the downed pilot. Hudner flies over the stricken plane and is relieved to see Brown push the canopy of the cockpit back and wave to signal he's okay. But even though smoke is coming from under the cowling Brown does not leave the aircraft! Realizing something is dreadfully amiss Hudner makes a dramatic and incredibly brave decision. He too will put his plane down on the mountainside to try and save his friend. Brown grew up in Mississippi in a time of racial segregation. He was born into an impoverished family, but his parents made education a priority and he graduated from high school. He had a passion for aircraft and flying. To pay for his further education Jesse waited tables at a bar for U.S. Army soldiers where he was frequently subject to racism. He managed to earn $600 to pay for college and graduated from Ohio State University. Enlisting in the Navy he earned his pilot wings and was the first African-American aviator in the Navy to pass basic training. Jesse was married to his wife Daisy, they had a daughter - Pam. Tom Hudner came from a well-to-do family and was due to go to Harvard but instead he volunteered for the Navy. Despite the two men's very different backgrounds they became firm friends. In 1950 they were both on the aircraft carrier USS Leyte as part of squadron "VF-32". They were Flying F4U-4 Corsairs conducting missions deep into North Korea to support US Marines on the ground. The Corsair was a snarling beast of an aircraft with a reputation of being fun, but hard to handle. It had an 18 cylinder radial engine with over 2,100 horsepower. In his later years, Tom spoke of the events of that day. This audio is of Tom in his own words telling how he met and became friends with Jesse and the incredible story of how he tried to save his friend back in the Winter of 1950. On December the 4th, 1950 the men formed part of an element flying a mission to support US Marines near the Chosin reservoir. Eventually the rescue helicopter got there. But despite their best efforts Jesse could not be freed and he was succumbing to the bitter cold. Even getting to the cockpit was very difficult with the airplane on a slope and with the deep snow. They considered more extreme measures to get Jesse out of the plane, but with the conditions they had it was virtually impossible. Deep in enemy territory, in the mountains with night falling and with the prospect of capture they were forced to make the difficult decision on what to do next. Tom spoke to the helicopter pilot: For his extreme bravery Tom was awarded the medal of honor by President Truman. Jesse's wife Daisy was present at the ceremony to represent Jesse and so Tom was on that day able to keep his promise and deliver the last words of his friend. Some months later Daisy experienced an incident that happened while walking home. She gave an interview recounting the story in detail. She was walking home from class going back to her apartment and as she got in the complex she looked down at her car and stopped. She asked her friend: &quot;Look at my car and tell me what you see&quot;. Her friend replied: &quot;That's Jesse sitting in your car!&quot; Both woman agreed that they could see Jesse in his green uniform sitting in his Dodge Wayfarer. When they got up close to the car, he was gone. Daisy was certain that she had been visited by the spirit of Jessie, and said: "Wherever he was, he was watching over Pam and me."