In the summer of 2014, I was in Iraqi Kurdistan finishing a season of field excavations Our project was looking into something ever since I began studying archeology. We're taught to believe when our ancestors in that part of the world, that it set in motion that would shape our modern world on a particular course. By farming wheat, our ancestors supposedly developed Private property was invented. And with that, the need to defend it. Along with new opportunities came new labor demands, tying most people to a hard regime while a privileged few received freedom and the leisure to do other things. To think, to experiment, to create the foundations Now, according to this familiar story, what happened next villages turned into towns, and with the emergence of cities, our species was locked on a familiar where spiraling populations were bound up with the kind that we see around us today. Except, as anyone can tell you, who's looked at the evidence almost nothing of what I've just And the consequences I'm going to suggest are quite profound. Actually, what happened around 10,000 years ago, is a long period of around in which villages And actually there's very little evidence which is not to say that nothing happened. Over those 4,000 years, technological change Without kings, without bureaucracies, these early farming populations fostered advanced metallurgy. They learned to cultivate olives, They invented leavened bread, beer, and they developed textile technologies: the potter's wheel, the sail. And they spread all of these from the shores up to the Black Sea, and from the Persian Gulf, all the way over where our excavations were taking place. I've often referred, half jokingly, as the era of the first global village. Because it's not just the technological but also the social innovations which enabled people without forming centers and without raising up a class Now, oddly enough, this efflorescence of culture as civilization. Instead, that term is usually reserved which came thousands of years later. Dynastic Mesopotamia. Pharaonic Egypt. Imperial Rome. Societies that were deeply stratified. So in short, I've always felt that there was about our concept of civilization, something that leaves us When we're confronted with thousands say, practicing agriculture, but not lording it over each other or exploiting each other to the maximum. Why don't we have better words? Where is our lexicon for those long in which we weren't behaving that way? Over the past ten years or more, I worked closely together with the late, great anthropologist David Graeber to address some of these questions. But we did it on a much larger scale because from our perspective this clash between theory and data, between the standard narrative and the evidence is not just confined It's everything: out whole picture of human history it's basically wrong. I'm going to try and explain Let's go back to some the stable reference points and orchestrating our understanding Take, for instance, that notion the human species lived in tiny until the advent of agriculture Or the notion that with the arrival sacred kings and rapacious oligarchs From our very first history lessons, we're taught to believe with all of its advantages and amenities, modern health care, space travel, all the things that are good and exciting, couldn't possibly exist without that original into larger and larger units and the relentless buildup Inequality, we're taught to believe, was the necessary price of civilization. Well, if so, then what are we to make Perhaps one might say there was just 4,000 years, before all these developments took place. Inequality was bound to happen, It was just a matter of time. And perhaps the rest for other parts of the world. Well, let's think a bit about what about the origin of cities. Surely, you might think, came the appearance of social classes. Think about ancient Egypt Or Shang China with its lavish tombs. The classic Maya Or the Inca empire with But actually, the picture What modern archeology is that there were already cities on the lower reaches of the Yellow River over 1,000 years And on the other side of the Pacific, in Peru's Rio Supe, we already see huge with monumental architecture In South Asia, 4,500 years ago, the first cities appeared and Harappa in the Indus Valley. But these huge settlements present No royal monuments, no aggrandizing art. And what's more, we know lived in high-quality housing North of the Black Sea, in the modern country of Ukraine, archaeologists have found evidence going back 6,000 years. And again, these huge settlements present no evidence of authoritarian rule. No temples, no palaces, not even any evidence or top-down bureaucracy. Actually what we see in those cases arranged rather like around neighborhood assembly halls. And it stayed that way So what this means is that long before there were already well-organized cities on several of the world's continents which present no evidence And some of them also seem to have managed mandarins and warrior politicians. Of course, some early cities did go on to become the capitals But it's important to note in completely the opposite direction. To take one well-documented example, around the year 250 AD, the city of Teotihuacan, with a population turned its back on pyramid temples and reconstituted itself as a vast collection of comfortable villas When archaeologists first they assumed they were palaces. Then they realized that just was living in a palace and subfloor drainages, gorgeous murals on the walls. But we shouldn't get carried away. None of the societies was perfectly egalitarian. But then we might also remember which we look to was also a militaristic society where women were completely So maybe by comparison, somewhere like Teotihuacan at keeping the genie But maybe we can just forget Perhaps all of these things Maybe we can still keep And after all, if cities without rulers were really why didn't Cortez and Pizarro find any when they began Why did they find only lording it over their empires? Except that's not true either. Actually, the city where Hernan Cortez the ones who enabled on the Aztec capital of Tenochtitlan, was exactly one such city without rulers: an indigenous republic governed by an urban parliament, which had some pretty interesting for would-be politicians. They'd be periodically whipped and subject to public abuse to sort of break down their egos It's a little bit different from what And archaeologists, by the way, excavating the remains and what they found there Again, the most impressive architecture It's just the well-appointed residences arrayed along these grand terraces And it's not just the history of cities that modern archaeological science We also know now that the history before the coming of agriculture is just nothing Far from this idea of people in tiny bands of hunter-gatherers, actually, what we see these days is evidence for a really wild variety before the coming of farming. In Africa, 50,000 years ago, hunter-gatherers were already social networks, covering In Ice Age Europe, 25,000 years ago, we see evidence of individuals their bodies suffused with ornamentation, weapons and even We see public buildings constructed And around 11,000 years ago, back in the Middle East, where I started, hunter-gatherers constructed at a place called Gobekli Tepe In North America, long before the coming of maize farming, indigenous populations created in Louisiana, capable of hosting hunter gatherer And then Japan, again, the storehouses of Sannai Maruyama of wild plant foods. Now what do all these details amount to? What does it all mean? Well, at the very least, I'd suggest it's really a bit far-fetched these days that the invention of agriculture meant Or to cling to the idea are especially likely to be egalitarian, while large-scale ones presidents and top-down And there are also some Take, for example, the commonplace notion that participatory democracy is somehow Or perhaps an activist group, but couldn't possibly have a scale up a nation or even a region. Well, actually, the evidence if we're prepared to look at it, suggests the opposite. If cities and regional confederacies, held together mostly existed thousands of years ago, who's to stop us creating them again today with technologies that allow us of distance and numbers? Perhaps it's not too late to begin of the human past, even to begin imagining what other kinds of civilization if we can just stop telling ourselves that this particular world Thank you very much. (Applause)