April 14, 1912. In the 40th minute of the 23rd the RMS Titanic is unwelcomely kissed on You know what happens next. But you might the ship's chief baker, defied death that one of the lifeboats, instead making sure women plunged into the water, he rode it down, in But what we like about this man is the he decided to get hammered. He went into the end on a high, he must have thought. He was just before it was completely submerged. The last But what's more, he spent two hours in that While others died in minutes, he trod water short of a miracle that this happened. reasons he survived when he really should on the ship, we'll leave his story until last. were on the ship that fateful night, not all the exact numbers were, but you'll generally hear Some of the passengers were insanely wealthy. tickets on the Titanic went up to PS870 (PS105,883 PS7 (PS852) today. If we are thinking in in today's money for the best first-class a third-class ticket. A second-class ticket would So, the experience on that ship was very different page news. If there were social media platforms lot of strangers writing RIP on their Facebook Titanic didn't even get a marked gravestone. ordeal. One of them was Frederick Fleet. the one that shouted "iceberg!" when things were saying things might have been different if he said, "We could have seen it a bit sooner." he replied, "Well, enough to get out of the way." he rang the bell to notify others. He also there was possible trouble ahead. The call was who asked Fleet exactly what he'd seen. During his testimony, he was asked how large the but then when asked if it was about as large as "It would be as large as those two tables Fleet was ordered to help put people on the along with 28 other people, four of whom were Fleet was one of the men that managed the oars boat was quartermaster Robert Hichens, That's because of the way he allegedly treated later said he refused to pick up people in the there's the famous story that a millionaire that she threatened to throw him in the water. they went back, they would likely be swamped and in the Newport Herald newspaper, saying: quartermaster. He was at the rudder and shivering like an aspen. As we pulled away from later that it was officers shooting as they trying to prevent those from the lower She was wrong about him being the Fleet was also an able seaman. Fleet, by the and his life later ended bleakly. reason why she threatened Hichens is that should row to keep warm. Hichens didn't like It's hard to know exactly what happened that its April 19, 1912 edition, some of the stories were "sensational". Brown wrote and we think her words are quite moving. She said: of the perishing men on the doomed steamer. husbands, sons, or fathers buried their and moaned and groaned only. While my eyes I particularly watched the broad promenade deck." first-class passengers died, mostly men. and 58 percent of second-class passengers died. say, too. We found his testimony. In it, he possible from the sinking Titanic. He said: in the boat, sir. Everybody was quite upset, there was no use stopping there alongside the head. We were in a dangerous place." women, too. As for some of the "The wind had sprung up a bit then, and it got with the oar and told her to take the tiller. and the ladies in the boat got very nervous. them to manage the best way they could." "She was rather vexed with me in the and she accused me of wrapping myself up in and drinking all the whisky, which I deny, sir." towards the sinking Titanic once they he'd told everyone they needed to get away because ship would pull them down under the water. said the words, "We are to look out for ourselves Hichens issued a denial. "I never made use of that other words in preference to that," he said. on that boat or if there was much drama at all. the Titanic's lights went out. In his testimony, or I imagined so, sir, for two or three it was the cries of one boat hailing the other. to alarm the women - the ladies in the boat." Hichens of drinking all the whiskey and but another first-class passenger, Leila Meyer. The wealthy couple paid PS82 for their ticket, thousand bucks today. Mrs. Meyer's story is a her father had died, and when the ship it. She later explained what happened. "I tried and tried to get Edgar to come into to stay behind and wait until he could leave, been saved. Mr. Meyer finally persuaded me to at home. I entered the lifeboat and watched time did I see my husband standing beside the Let's now move on to another of the Titanic. This one is about the only Fluent in Russian, he'd been working in Russia on his way home, he was first to stop in London, When the ship hit the iceberg, Hosono got up he had no idea what had happened, so he went told by a steward to get away from the boat deck. and wrongly believed him to be a third-class He was actually staying in second-class. Things definitely going to sink. He later said, "Somehow dread and desolation." He managed to sneak that he might not see his wife and kids again. but he saw that there were two spaces left when and Hosono jumped into the other. In terms of but Hosono wasn't familiar with western sailing Someone later wrote about his dire situation, Hosono chose life, and lived to regret it." rescue ship, he started writing a letter the only surviving letter from the ship to be Since he wrote it when things were so fresh in for it gives us a rare glimpse into how "After the ship sank there came back again in the water. Our lifeboat too was filled worried about the safety of their husbands and miserable as they were, not knowing what Earlier in the letter, he stated that he was and join the third-class passengers. As you know, terrible feeling I had... I was alone and screamed." to sink into the icy depths of the ocean and never but his story became a huge embarrassment for the only Japanese guy on the ship had shown a nation obsessed with honor and dying honorably. sneaked onto one of the lifeboats and so let talked about how women and children on the The US media joined in, writing stories about in comparison to Hosono sacrificing nothing. they often called him the Japanese "stowaway." death, Japan made him the subject of something means you should be socially ostracized. People should have died. They said he should die now. saying bad things about him. He was an outcast. but even after that, Japanese media used without honor. You can also be sure that his wanted to talk about Asian people. Well, at His story isn't much different from that of the This British shipping company was the Ismay was the highest-ranking White Star Line coward, too, saying the honorable thing to do A poem was written about him at "The Captain stood where the Captain should But the Owner led when the women fled, But like Honono, Ismay did at least help women and place for himself. Also, like Honono, he lived in depressed and hid from the world, with his He had to testify, of course, which is show today. Like everyone else, he heard a bump find out what had happened as a matter of urgency. what he called the "natural order" of things. he replied, "The boat was there. There was the officer called out asking if there were any were no passengers left on the deck." always with his back to the ship. When asked why, Ok, so it's about time we heard from Titanic. One of them was Rhoda Abbott. to Providence in the US. That's the middleweight champion boxer Stanton Abbott. and took them back to England with her. But so she decided to take them back to the She was 39, and her two boys were 16 and 13. quite a lot for a third-class cabin, When the Titanic was pretty much finished, it Remember that as she was a woman and her boys easier than they could have. Naturally, Mrs. Abbott then told the boys they had one into Collapsible A. It was soon swamped itself. It was fortunate that Fifth Officer She was indeed lucky to survive. Even when she injured from the cold. After getting off, weeks in the hospital. We know a little about how survivor, who later wrote Abbott and her kids: if there hadn't been so many people around. thankful that three of them had stayed with her on then the other son went. She grew numb and the Carpathia. There was a piece of cork in took a long time, but finally we got it out." most of whom were men. Nonetheless, some of girls. For instance, the 10-year-old Catharina and her mother, Rosalie. Of the 53 kids that Now let's clear something up here. In another we mentioned the third-class passengers being parts of the ship were not accessible to certain of the third-class passengers were told to stay third-class passengers stayed. what the third-class survivors had to say. Buckley was asked, "Were you permitted to go on He said yes but then added, "They tried to keep us want us to go up to the first class place at all." tried to get out, saying, "There was one steerage and just as he was going in a little gate, threw him down into the steerage place. This and he could not find him. He got up over Another controversial aspect of the disaster or gates separating the classes. In He was asked, "There was a gate between He replied, "Yes. The first class deck there were some steps leading up to it; 9 or 10 He was then asked if it was "It was not locked at the time we made the or whoever he was, locked it. So that this fellow and he went after the fellow that threw him he would throw him into the ocean." he and his third-class passengers had about "They could not keep them down," he said, which some point. They weren't locked in like in the Another third-class survivor said the gates others down. He said, "The stewards prevented passed around for the women and children." had to stay back while working-class women And given the number of survivors from each were kept back for as long as possible. blacksmith Anthony Abbing. when he only got as far as the Atlantic Ocean. No he was "locked down in steerage." such as a Norwegian laborer who was heading to His name was Olaus Jorgensen Abelseth. which included a young woman who survived. He on the poop deck, but when the time was around they made their way to the boat deck. leave. That's when sailors were told they boats. These were still lifeboats, but they had "I was standing there, and I asked my said no. I asked my cousin if he could swim, and the bow of the ship was going down, and there was and cracking, and the deck raised up and got so feet on the deck. So, they fell down and slid When the water was just five feet away, they entangled in something but managed to get Abelseth later said he swam for about There were dead bodies everywhere. But then only for someone to tell him to get off as he to push him off, and no one tried to help him on. manage to drag himself over the side, the boat was they were later picked up. One man froze to death did not talk very much, except that we would say, As dawn broke and a ship was in the distance, face he remembered. The guy just said, "Who are him up like that for a while, but I got tired and a lot of which were floating around there, and to keep his head from the water; but it was not When they were picked up by the Carpathia blanket and given some coffee and brandy, clothes. He was still a third-class citizen! third-class passengers were told not to coming to rescue everyone. Some were not "There were a lot of steerage people there they had on deck, that they used to lift things I believe. These steerage passengers were crawling the boat deck. A lot of them were doing that." "They could not get up there in any other way?" Nonetheless, he did add that he didn't feel held back. That part of the ship filled to get out of there fast. When he was "Oh, yes. There was a friend of mine who told and then there was so much water there This testimony is important in regard to although he seems to contradict himself we think this bit of his testimony relating to "We did not talk very much. Just a little ways there on the deck, and I heard this man say saved.&quot; He put his hand on her shoulder, lifeboat and get saved.' She replied: 'No; let but I saw that he was an old man. I did not pay Very few people were alive on the ship as long as He was the guy we talked about at the beginning This Liverpudlian was the chief baker on the he was going to the pub with his friends to make that would have gotten him a seat But he was working, not traveling, on that could get into lifeboat 10 as its captain, but he children. He might only have been five feet three sure. Some women refused to go, either scared but Joughin didn't give them much choice. At one point, he went back to the pantry but he was merry as the Titanic went down. As him, he took it all in his stride. while all the commotion was going on, He said at one point, "That was just after and I went down to my room for a drink, as I followed up my men on to the deck." "I went down to my room and had a drop of liqueur I saw the old doctor [possibly Dr. O'Loughlin] So, he was pretty smashed when the boat finally the Titanic as it became almost vertical, and bones breaking, old and young, just He said he looked on in horror when the bodies had when the Titanic broke in half and went down as if that was, he replied, "There was no great shock, to Liverpool, you'll know it's a tough old town. things started getting crazy. Talking about the just wondering what next to do when she went." about that, "I did not attempt to get anything but that was daylight." "Then you were in the water for a long time?" Now, this shouldn't have been possible. Others 20 or 30 minutes, but two hours treading When asked if he had felt calm, he replied, "It by the situation he helped himself a lot. He but refused to let him on. He testified, "I and I what you call hung around it." in the water. When a lifeboat came into back in the water and swam towards it, so In his testimony, it almost sounds like the the commissioner says, "You have said you this collapsible, and then you spent some time it was after you got to the collapsible Joughin replied, "I should say we were The commissioner asked, "That means that for Joughin said, "Practically, yes." long in the water, although some say it was the you are fighting hypothermia, so we reckon the He actually lived until he was 78, taking was talked about for years, so on his death it was written, "Baker on the Titanic." there are many more testimonies Now you need to hear some more technical (Hour by Hour)." Or, have a look at "Why Is