I didn't realize how unhappy I was and how much that In traveling, I saw how other countries and societies America we are so focused on what you do and how that are. It's hard to describe how much happier I am now. Now, I intentionally build a life that I love. I'm Roshida and I'm 42. I retired to Mexico City from the United States. Before I retired. I was a consumer auto finance My last salary was about $200,000 a year. I grew up middle class with parents who didn't talk to Being good at saving money came from years of being Before I went to law school in that time. I was really checked to check after college was the is to be an adult. I was working as a receptionist and I realized I I knew I needed to do something else to be able to And that thing was law school. I went to law school at the University of Virginia. By the time I left law school, I had about two hundred student loan debt between undergrad and law school. I was talking to a friend who invested in real estate, that I could pick up houses pretty cheaply in Ohio. I purchased my investment property for seventeen home I purchased for eighty four and sold for around I got to tell you, I hated, hated, hated flipping And that's when I learned that what might work really isn't going to work for everybody. The investing strategy that's worked best for me has So I'm very much in the stock market, hands off, give of their mutual funds, set it and forget it. So after I was laid off in two thousand nine, it really me in that, like, I had to go to work, I had to find a And so when I got another job, my main focus with my off my debt. What I did was I really stayed focused. I paid one thing at a time, stayed focused on it, and As I earned more money, I just put it all towards my I lived what you might describe as a FIRE lifestyle existed. Once I got in the habit of squirreling money aside, then I just got in the habit of like pushing And as it grew, as my income grew, I just pushed a So at first it was to my debts and then it was When there was no debt left, it went to my Without the layoff, I would still be there, and even decision to go travel. I don't think I would have gone to take a career break She was like, if you don't go now, you're never going I traveled to 44 cities and I think twenty three one year of my career break. But in that time I came to Mexico City, I think three It was the only city that I repeated, and I just I love the energy of the city. My plan after my career break was to go right back and I'd be in a better mood and I'd go back to a different But traveling and seeing that the way we work world made me realize that I could have a different I always say that I accidentally retired. I paid off all my debt, I saved money and then when I I looked at my investments and I had about half a and I knew I was going to get another hundred and thousand in stocks from a company I used to work for. I knew I had about six hundred and sixty thousand I didn't want to go back to work. That was enough. It was enough for me to live while. If I was in the U.S., would I have decided that was Probably not. America doesn't really tell us when enough is enough. People who want to retire, they have to, on their own, need in order to retire, where you want to retire, are. But that's all part of doing the math that I In a typical month, I spend about twenty three hundred While the cost of living in Mexico is cheaper than the a lot of Mexico. So it's-- it's a cheaper city to live One of the things I love to do in Mexico City is They're usually really great places to hang out with neighborhood is doing. And I have a couple of favorite dessert places in love. This is good, Joe! I do have a temporary visa. I have a visa for one year as a residency visa. I came down initially on a tourist visa and I rented everything was on a tourist visa. But I knew I wanted to stay here, and I didn't want to So I got my temporary residence visa and I will renew And then in four years, I can get my permanent visa. Welcome back, my name's Roshida, and you're here Today, we're talking about life in Mexico City and Strangers, mostly women, were reaching out to me and I want to do that, too. Can you tell me more about it? I was helping everyone who came along, and eventually I be a business. And so I became a career break coach. I help women who want to take career breaks, leave world or move abroad and just do what makes them So I'm helping other women and specifically black had. A lot of times I hear from women who were like, it was possible.&quot; And so a lot of my time is spent and talking to them about what their life could look The income, but I'm getting from this, prevents me from very rarely touch my investments, so they're A lot of people think that retirement means you're not really retired. I consider myself retired because I when I want to. I don't work more than four days a I take weeks off at a time. I've taken months off and I will again and I just do I was the best version of myself when I traveled in stressed, I was allowed to do whatever I wanted to do. The only person who can make demands on me was myself. When I had the opportunity to rebuild my life from I made the decisions that made me happy and I can't ever making decisions that that don't bring you this I'm very open to what's next. So it's Mexico for me right now. I can see myself in other places for months at a time. I don't know that Mexico is it forever. I'm open to whatever comes my way, but for right now