Because he was such a big part of my life. It was something I'll It was just a weird blue line. That was John. He's there. It's okay. Leave it in. He's around again, you see. But this song fascinates me, It's my favorite song you ever wrote. That was your first mistake. You took your lucky break That was directed at John. We were writing songs at each other. Like weaponizing songs. Why did he want out? I think John didn't like I think all of us, the male a feeling of being trapped. In fact, when the Beatles broke up, He said, I feel great. I feel so energized. Just like when I told my wife I was I felt free. It was like a butterfly let out of a jar. And I think John had It's a bit like leaving the army. Then you go get married, you have kids. I think all of us recognize that John said he didn't miss Yeah, I think John said a lot of things John was that guy. He also said the Beatles were baskets, It's John was a lot of bravado You don't believe that he meant it. Not for one tiny second. Then he started saying those nasty things Humperdink, that you were a bore. Did you ever reconcile- You, Zack. That was another. Are you still a little hurt that you A little? Someone like John Lennon Yeah, it was very hurtful. But the one thing I knew about John off very often about things. So there was a point that he deliberately Why? He later explained it by over some things, and it was bitchy. I know for a fact he missed him. Talked to Yoko and she says, I talked to him on the phone. He said, You could tell he He's the guy you'd thump in the mouth. He said, No. You knew it hurt. He just had to do that. And at the time, I thought, Well, But I thought, No, it's really him, then we're going to be at each other and really bitching. If somebody didn't genuinely their feelings about them, they wouldn't that John did to lash back at you. They wouldn't hold a pig on covered They wouldn't call your stuff rubbish They wouldn't do it. I think he was very hurt. There were people turning him against me. It was his way of defending himself. He was quite pissed off about as he once called it. He's getting on all the telly. He's selling records. He was a jealous guy. I knew from my relationship with him quite likely to say that about anyone, He often said things he didn't mean. I know that when he died, that was one was that she took me aside She was gracious enough to do that for me. Where were you when he died? I was at home in England. Very early in the morning, someone that I was alone in the house, I think it was like that for everyone. It was It's so horrific. You couldn't take it in, And I just know, just for days, you just couldn't think that he was gone. You know your parents are going to die. When they die, that's shattering. Your mates, you think they'll and we'll all go to great old age. So John's thing was A really big shock, I think, It's a bit like Kennedy. There were certain moments like that. Obviously, I was probably more shattered And I had plenty of personal grief. But I And I'm not very So someone thrust a microphone I said, What's your comment? Very shocked. It's some terrible news. How did you find out about it? I Have you had a phone call this morning? From who? From a friend of mine. Are you planning to go I don't know yet. Do you know... Have you discussed the death No. Now, do you plan to? What were you recording today? I was just listening to some stuff. I just didn't want to sit at home. Why? Look, I didn't feel like it. What time did you hear the news? It's this morning sometime. Very early? Yeah. Drag, isn't it? Okay, cheers. All I could muster was like, It's a drag. And it was like, I couldn't I just couldn't. Nobody came out with any big comments It was just too much of a shocker. But of course, then that got reprinted. Mccartney, when asked what he thought of John Lennon's relationship when they were the best of friends. I would have liked to have straightened everything out. That's one of the things about you do the many things left unsaid. And he went to live in New York, And there were a lot of problems we'd bitch at each other. But the good thing was that I used to phone him in New York got to be friends again, and it was nice. Long distance friends, It was around about the time when He was a house husband. So I remember ringing him What are you doing? He said, Well, I'm just I just put the cats out. I'm just going to make some bread. Got the washing up to do love. I've got a couple of dogs. We talk about ordinary things, Because when we talked about business, your business, my business. What am I doing? You see, one of our big problems had been the business thing. And we found that we As long as we were talking like that, it was really easy. And we could get on fine. And it was, Wow, how are your kids? And we'd be It would be terrific. And suddenly, either one of us would say, And he'd get real mean. Because that was like a serious game You say my last conversation with John, And I went, Oh, gosh, that's like a full circle thing. They spoke about baking bread. It warms the house when you bake bread. Yeah, it was very special to me that you'd had the whole horrible thing I think we just realized, What are we doing? It was crazy. But it was very good, actually. It was the one good thing our friendship back together again. So I was very happy about that. Very sad about his death, of course, one of the worst things to ever happen. But at least we'd spoken on the phone, So that was a big consolation for me. And I was so glad that we got back to that relationship that we'd always had. We'd lived in each other's pockets to get back to that. Is it still painful to talk about John? The main feeling for me It's just numbness. You still can't really believe it. Still feel like you're there somewhere. It was just such a crazy thing. I think I felt like everyone felt, really. Just, oh, God. It's that irrational thing that You go between total anger and really just have some violent reaction to thinking, I think it's very much our modern society. I think there's a lot of that happening. Did John's death in any way views his celebrity status? Not my celebrity status, no. It changed a lot of things. What got? Well, something like that, To me, it's end of an era. Did it fight you in terms for your own welfare, for Linda's? A bit, because I suppose you You know there are crazy people think it's going to happen. I suppose something like that I mean, it's tough, but obviously, but I don't think you can live like that. I wouldn't like to live So really, my attitude is just I don't really know what else to do. I dream about him. I mean, the thing is, when you've had it was such a deep relationship. I love it when people I had a lot of dreams about John, I think if John was here now, the only one in the Beatles I think he'd admit that it But having said that, he was great. I'm more than proud to have It was a great experience. When the Beatles broke up, a lot I bought into it. I thought-That you were the villain? A little bit, because you start to think, Well, maybe I was. So I had to do a lot Wasn't I? Were we friends or anything? And that photo, when I saw that,