Definitely focus on SEO. Definitely focus on repurposing, consistency and just keeping at it. Hello, hello, and welcome back In case you're new around here, Zanga and LiveJournal and WordPress To making over six figures as a content I do a lot of other things as well, but a solid full time source of income for me. And I think it's actually more when I first got started, nobody It was very much the wild, wild West. Uh, people were paying pennies, paying in And, uh, yeah, there's just more content creation journey a possibility. So I want to share with you started in today's day and age. As a content creator and really Before we get into the episode, to the YouTube channel or follow I'm on Spotify, Apple podcasts, and also Let me know that you're here. If you have two seconds to do so. Today's episode is also I'll share a bit more about them later. Their link is also down in the show notes. If you want to check them out and Okay. So my first tip is to make sure that creator, like any job, uh, content I think we hear a lot about the good You get to be yourself and work from home and, you know, be in charge of your But. It definitely does have its cons. It has its stress. I think just like any other type has those highs and those lows. There are seasons when I'm like, brand wants to work with me and I'm And I just had this amazing And then there are seasons where I'm like. Nobody likes me, everybody hates me, want to work with me, you know, there's coaster, just like in any freelance job. But I think one of the other big with content creation is just. How private of a life you want to live. I think that's one of the hardest, up to personal criticism, potentially loved ones up to potential criticism. It's something that isn't really. Typical of a lot of other jobs. You know, you go into an office and even isn't, you know, criticizing the way that These are things that really Now, I also think you should decide you wanna be, because yes, as the always open yourself up to some amount Um, and also there's a lot of different I mean, of vlogger or personal vlogger going to be the most open to criticism But there are faceless content only see their hands or see slides Those are absolutely. I'm going to go down. There are also, you know, somewhere in sure, I talk about things in my personal to, when I feel really inspired, when Content strategy is not based Like I do not need to be living So figure out what type I also think that video content Cause you can, you feel like the person that you're watching. So if you maybe want to lean more or just on photos, right, there are it's really important to get clear. From the get go, what kind of the of content you're looking to create Now, the next thing. That you want to think A niche is basically a category of of content where you would fall in And I think even more important than even that could be broad, right? We can say online business or food or. Um, fashion or makeup or education, Those are all still pretty broad. I say, go even deeper and really figure This is really important in the early Figure out what that keyword is for me. When I really got serious about podcasts really started to take off on the keyword social media manager. That was my job at the I still do that more to come on that, and side hustling, building up my agency. And that was my life, you know, And I knew that I wanted to one looking for social media managers managers to share my expertise, my And so pretty much I'm going to be focusing on something pretty much every, every title had management, social media marketing, So I could really own that keyword Don't just think about your niche. If you're talking about food. Is it healthy vegan food? Is it easy one pot meals? Is it cheap meals for family? Like, get really granular in the beginning start to carve out a path for yourself. And that's how you're going It really is going to be... Likely through s e o in the little bit less SS e o focused once But in the beginning, you've gotta You've gotta find people who are Next, you want to create a revenue plan. And I know this might feel like It's really, really important before you idea of how you would like to make money, yourself in the right way, uh, and, and and kind of start to, uh, speak to your, There's so many different ways that you And my best advice is to Revenue stream, if you can at all of those streams can be taken away. Uh, something could happen platform or something like that. And you don't want to be left in the dark. So. There are quite a few different ways. I wrote them all down because There are brand sponsorships, Like if you're creating YouTube platforms now, like TikTok has creator There are affiliate links, products and services. And there are memberships and that all about you screen is a membership on rebuilding my membership in. This is a really, really cool way and just get closer to them, develop And also. If you're already creating great videos get you to the point of being full time, You screen allows you to launch a paid apps, as well as TV apps like Apple TV, like look and feel you screen is the for video creators to do memberships. And it shows they make it super have conversations with viewers in members push notifications all Creators like Jevin Dovey yoga by plus an art hub for kids all use And guess who else we me. I am in the process of building I can't wait to show it to you all. In addition to creating member I'm most excited to post challenges section of my Uscreen membership. And the best part is that launching a opportunities for you, making it Easier full-time gig use screen makes hosting of video hosting, billing monetization anything else that you need to create So again, I'm gonna leave a description, in the show notes. Definitely go check them out if And be sure to let them know So memberships are definitely a content creation business, but And like I said, I definitely recommend couple that you can kind of lean on. One of the probably most common creator is sponsorships. Now, the pros of this is that the some of the other options on this list. Like affiliate, revenue, merch sales, con with sponsorships is that it really to get those high paying sponsorships. When I first started out, um, I, sponsorship until I had maybe like I had received products. I was doing makeup content a lot. At that time I'd received products, but So you definitely do need an audience studies to show that you are able to over to a product, something to be So I think those are a great longer term starting out, that's not going to be. In the revenue mix, you know, on month episode all about sponsorships that I'm If you want to check that out, that you would like to go down. Another path that you can So YouTube, for example, you can reach a particular threshold. I believe it's like 4, 000 watch hours Definitely recommend doing that. It's some nice pocket change. That's really what it was for me in I was, you know, sometimes making a got to the point where I was actually Last year, I think was my I made over 50, 000. Just from YouTube ad I think it's going to be less than that. Strangely, even though my videos So it is a little bit, like I said, It depends on so many other factors So again, I don't really recommend source, but it can be a nice, like. Bonus for sure. Now, if you're not doing YouTube, like the Tik TOK creator fund. Uh, I think Instagram at least at one Even for the podcast, this is something I didn't even realize it, but Spotify for podcasters, which is So all of those little things, you 5 a podcast, maybe something So over time you are building streams for yourself so that you If one of them isn't working anymore, recommend thinking about, particularly of like product reviews or, or if and you are linking out a lot to. You know, household products or fashion Think about affiliate links. Now I used to always, I've, I've been affiliate program since I think And I was always like, this doesn't work. Like I don't make any money from it. I try to make the links and I never see anything tangible from it. But again, over the years, as you start one, It definitely, uh, what's the word? Snowballs? Combust? That's not the word I'm looking for. I don't know. It definitely. Oh my gosh. Compounds. Compounds was the word I was looking for. It definitely adds up. And so again, I'm not living off means, but it's now like, you know, And then the other thing with links that have high payouts. Amazon for me is like, You know, I when you, when somebody purchased but I do have certain softwares that Because if you think about it, if I'm program, that is a higher price, you to reward me handsomely for that. So look into the tools that you use. Every day in your business or, or if they offer an affiliate program. Even course creators often I know I'm an affiliate for one every time I refer a sale their way, So look for those higher ticket, Merch, of course, if you want to do like that, I've dabbled in this. I have a coaching journal that I also made a coloring book with my It wasn't this huge revenue, you videos all about how to create those coloring books, things like that. If you. Think that is something Of course you could do t shirts, And then lastly, products and services. I'm not going to dive too much into this podcast and YouTube channel is all about. So instead I'll link some resources If you want to get started with And services is like, just type in a search with my name. You'll find a lot on how to start Or a consultant or anything like that, I don't want to say easy way, but it can If you're already delivering content, on YouTube or Tik TOK or Instagram natural, a natural step to say, Hey, by I have this course around this topic, your social media for you, et cetera. Okay. So after you think about revenue, of content you want to create, you Hey, here's how I'm going to make money. Here's how I'm going to fuel this. You got to actually plan out your content And what I recommend starting with So this is going to be where you This is kind of your It's the thing that you think about can you do a video or a post or You're going to be thinking And then I want you to think about to help you, uh, drive traffic Um, and if I had it my way. And if I were starting from scratch, as something that's a little bit lack of better words, meteor that I onto a shorter form platform. For example, for me, My So if somebody says, Hey, Latosha, can I'm thinking YouTube, I'm going to YouTube video and post it over on platform, but also probably on Tik TOK Platforms as well, but really The reason I recommend starting long understand some people like have no you don't like it, then don't do it. You know, ignore, ignore that start with Instagram, whatever. Um, but if you can at all help it longer, that's a little bit meatier is a 30 second Tik TOK or a one minute It's a lot harder for me to It's kind of like here Whereas I really credit the fact that my well for those particular keywords. That I, that he set out to ring for lived beyond that initial upload. When I look at my analytics on YouTube, best for me right now are videos that honestly, and that doesn't mean that my is a testament to sort of the shelf life. a platform like YouTube, the same or, or anything that has kind of With my tick tocks. It's very much like they get a, you And after about a week or so, I don't I'm sure that's not true for everybody. I've never had a super viral I'm sure those probably have more people's day to day short form So that's kind of my, my spiel on that. Now, of course, you also need going to post on those platforms. When it comes to creating a content everything from your topics, kind of to that keyword or that niche that with two to three content pillars or That you want to talk about. So let's say that you are a hairstylist own line of clip in hair extensions. So you're going to sell And then you also are If people are in your area or To have you come work with them. So you might have the content pillars hairstyles, and you might do tutorials. You might do a behind the scenes of series where you actually share where you're manufacturing your hair. Or, um, you know, just kind of coming up with the idea, coming up designers, all of that kind of stuff. And maybe you have a client feature you know, little vlogs of getting special moments of their life. Like just off the top of my head, a random series about makeup trends. Right? Right? Because. Even though your ideal audience probably hair, they probably care about makeup too. They kind of go hand in hand, but back to anything that you have to you can go and do their hair or as So it's, yeah, it may be Yes. You might be even going viral if you are is it actually helping your bottom line? Is it actually helping you get known for? What you really want to So you want to make sure that you are and cycling through them as well. I like having content pillars just so I Sometimes I can get in these creative I'm like, all I want to make Like I just want to make But Latasha, like some of your they also might want to see a interview or they might want to see So cycling through those pillars your content is feeling related. It's all feeling a part of the same feeling super repetitive and you know, head with the same type of content. When it comes to growing your audience. As I mentioned, SEO really is I went hard with that keyword on I was able to grow my audience. Like that's the, the long story give it a good amount of time I say like three months minimum. Go with that strategy, go with that attention to feedback, listen to what review your analytics before you say this And before like really changing up And then another thing. With growing your audience as a gun, that So if you are, let's say creating a clips on Tik TOK, make sure that Those things can all be helpful ways There are lots of other strategies. Of course, you can also do know, guests on other podcasts. If you have a podcast, invite Well known names who are likely to You know, there's so many different of platform specific, but definitely repurposing, focus on collaboration Keeping at it. I know that's like the hardest advice actionable, but it's not I get it. I get it. Um, but it is a bit of a waiting game. That doesn't mean keep doing the That doesn't mean wait forever, you throw in the towel. And then the last thing that scale your business, right? Scale the business side of it. Once you have the content side of you're starting to build an audience. Transcribed You're starting to You know, you're getting in the day Then you really want to think And this is where you're going to And the reason we planned this out ahead growing your Business in a different way. If you are focusing more on focusing on memberships, right? If you're focusing more on memberships, focusing first on just building large audience, building an engaged. audience, most importantly, developing having those back and forth conversations that stuff, and really establishing your it is that you're looking to serve. Meanwhile, if you're hoping that your primary source of revenue, You might come up with like lists on your Mom, you know, I don't, I don't know, day, like listicle type articles like search where you can just link to your Maybe you adopt more of an Instagram build up a relationship with your outfits and link to affiliate links. Like your, your strategy for bit different depending on what. Your primary revenue source goal is But assuming you've kind of content strategy around that, Really? We're going to divide this into two journey, if you are selling to customers. And more to the client If you're looking to either work with So either way you want to through their eyes, basically. And in my experience as somebody who all of those and still do use all What works best for me for. So for the membership, for or anything like that is getting So I have a freebie. I have videos on this as well that There's gonna be a lot of Cause I know we're like. We're kind of flying through the Hey, here's how to get started Here's a YouTube cheat sheet. Here's blah, blah, blah, blah, blah. Download that. Well, now I have their email them through an email sequence. That walks them through the process of my community, of what it's like it's like to be in my community. And the goal is to get them Sometimes I'll also do webinars. Webinars tend to convert really well So I'll host special events for sell them access to my membership. Or a course or something like that. And I mean, that tends to work the best Emails are not, uh, at Like my videos are like Instagram if I have your email address. I can get in contact with you until you Sounds a little creepy. I know, but it's true. So that's what tends to work I think for brands, if you want to your profile and making sure that I actually, one of my first long in, in influencer marketing. I worked on the brand side and you How many people I could not get in touch They would even have open to Instagram bio, but I could not So unless I wanted to DM them. And usually I didn't because brands Sometimes there's tracking involved. Sometimes you have to copy Like if I couldn't find an email So make sure that you're You'll also want to create It's basically your creator resume when you reach out to brands, you of content that I've created. Here are my stats. Here are how many audience Are there typical demographics? Are they more male, more female? What's their age group? What's their location? All of that stuff. Those are going to be really And of course you can do I definitely recommend just I think the same is true for cold a freelancer, a social media manager. I recommend playing it cool here. Like I am not the person who's going to be Like give me 50, 000 to participate That's never the vibe. It's always, Hey, I'm a I would love to work Um, you know, do you have any. Any, um, opportunities to work Cool. Start with introductions, A lot of the times when I introduced up working together until, you know, But just making those connections. I connect with people on Okay. And then, yeah, same thing for clients. If you're going to provide a service, So again, I will link some resources for a discovery call link in your description bio, if you're on Instagram or Tik TOK If you happen to be a social to learn more about that. Customer journey and Be sure to check out the social I will link that for you as well. It's a great resource. We really go through step by step How to get clients, how It's a really fun class. So that's kind of it. I mean, I know that's kind of a lot to. Think about, but it really is. Like I said, I think it's I think the key to making a full diversification is making sure that you And I think particularly having is recurring, like a membership. I think that's really, So, you know, thing is a lot of us and we're used to that paycheck It's just not like that If you're working with brands, again, There's certain seasons Oh, around holiday time, that tends Whereas, you know. The middle of summer, maybe not so have members who are paying a certain they can cancel, so it can change, but reliable than just relying on brands or sales even can be really up and down. So be sure to check out you screen. If you are looking to create a membership, membership, explore their platform. They've got so many amazing features. I'll leave that link in And thank you so much for I'm going to have a lot of And, uh, let me know if you'd like more. Info on any of these topics I'm happy to do a part two. Thank you so much for tuning in. Please leave me a comment, subscribe, podcast platforms, all the things. We're almost at 200 I would really like to see us get there. I think I only need like three more. So if you haven't reviewed the show made it all the way through, that So please take a second to review I'll talk to you in the next one. Bye.