I don't know about you, but I can't Have you ever stood at the edge of a decision, deep down that something needs to change? This I've been here for a while. Lately, I've been I create, and after years of focusing I'm feeling the pull to expand beyond lessons I'm learning in real time, beyond simplifying life. And you know, as I reflect I've shared conversations, I've shared ideas, right? I've talked about these things before, this box for whatever reason. Maybe know that certain topics and certain videos But something else that's also true is that I've talk about myself like that. To talk about my ideas or stories that I have. You know, if I'm usually pretty quiet and observant, type of person that likes to sit there, observe, right? Because I talk to a camera for a living. for a living, right? So that's a bit ironic, and more every day to expand beyond minimalism conversation and lessons that I'm learning in Now that's not to say that I'm never going to talk because I will. And that's because minimalism are choosing to live. It's how we're raised but I'm also more than that, and I feel than that. But here's the thing, pivoting my Maybe you're feeling similar uncertainties in your a personal decision or a big transformation the truth is that we all face uncertainties and how to move forward. Knowing what to do we shouldn't take action anyway. And so today, using to navigate this uncertainty that I'm pivoting my content, and hopefully these Hey, my friend, welcome back to another episode of steps that I'm taking or the two ideas that make to share my thoughts on why we fear uncertainty it's easy to feel overwhelmed and stuck, right? outcome is going to be, we hesitate, and we end playing through different scenarios, playing realizing on my journey, as I'm navigating my own uncertainty itself. The real issue is that we are what steps to take. And the latter rings true for the content that I want to create, how I see my that I want to build, the things that I want to is where the uncertainty comes into play for me, of the other, and taking that action, committing for you as well. Then I want to share something Without clarity, uncertainty feels like an endless right? It creates this cycle of overthinking and and all of the uncertainties that build over way to get out of this fog, or the only way out let me be real with you for a moment. Clear the answers up front, and I believe this is the and it's a mistake that I've made multiple I have to have all the answers upfront before first step, before I can move forward. And that clear thinking - all this means is that of outside opinions or judgments or the fear you can develop the confidence to then take the And so for me, I've realized that I've had to well, what do I want? Well, now that I know why do I want to pivot? And then from there, I had well, what if this doesn't work out, shift my focus to just what feels You know, I'm growing and evolving on my journey only feels right for my content to also reflect with you as well. And so to help me navigate committed to keeping two ideas at the forefront referenced at the beginning of this conversation. of the outcome, and the second one is embracing The first idea, or the first step that I'm taking, the outcome and toward the process. You know, I've what if this pivot doesn't work? What if I lose But at the same time, I'm thinking, Well, what I've realized that focusing on outcomes like these of knowing what the outcome is going to be until thinking about this pivot as an experiment, from along the way. And this shift in thinking realize that clarity often comes after we start the process, I'm giving myself permission The second idea or the second step is probably the things might not go perfectly. A lesson that and hopefully it finally sticks this time form of procrastination. It keeps us waiting but waiting for perfection is the quickest we have to develop the confidence to take messy and imperfect. We have to develop the not 100% sure on every single detail, which right? You know, as I'm exploring and navigating same theme, the same idea that clarity, the the other side of action. And so for me, the probably going to be messy, they are not going to Let's shift gears here for a brief moment to be just about me. So if you're I want to put you on to a simple exercise And what I want you to do is I want you to take these questions. What do I want? What's holding even if it's messy or imperfect. And I want you to right? The goal isn't to get it perfect. Here's the beautiful thing about taking that content you create or navigating uncertainties Taking that first step brings relief. You'll tried. And once you start moving right, that and that is excitement about the possibilities, importantly, you'll begin to feel no matter how small, no matter how imperfect, And fun fact for you, this conversation you're new direction. I'm navigating my uncertainties in these first few steps might be a little messy. but just by getting this out, I now feel the what's to come next. Keep growing your journey, stay true to you, because I'm always staying