Welcome to the Heavy Spoilers show, I'm your - Episode 3 is now out and it's another banger with easter eggs, hidden details and things you show villain. It's getting very very sinister Heavy Spoilers ahead from this point out it check out now. Smash the thumbs up your Ex and with that out the way - Now episode 2 ended with a big reveal which came Totally forgot what this reminded me of but it was this episode that the penny finally similar fashion during the original X-men We now had two Jean Grays and many of you guessed the fact that she was pregnant and then the of the comics will know this as Cable and it The comics have always been pretty fully been nailed down. He's the time slept with Scott. I think. That's it in the comics but they went a bit all They actually wanted to adapt it during his origin story. However they realised it cut the entire thing out. Still with Pryor being on the side of a van Here though it's kind of a back door explanation the comics we had the Dark Pheonix saga which Jean in the comics then seemingly died and he then met Madelyne and due to her likeness to even suspicion that she might be the same Here he saw she was seemingly in a plane crash However this was all a plant carried out by He wanted Madelynne and Scott to fall in love Sinister was out to breed a powerful mutant in the hopes that they'd be strong He'd even gave her a personality similar to Jeans name Pryor...that was also a pun because The pair then had a whirlwind romance We're given a nod to this and even get think is such a cool thing to They also perfectly recreate the Goblin costume from the comics. So good seen something this hot from the I wish she was Goblin up my - Now if you love clothes which...great way to start right below the video. We've got theory time and lots of marvel things you should check out. lot of work into the fit so that it accentuates pecks and looser round the waist its gonna thank you to everyone who's picked one up and Now as always we begin with the iconic intro on Disney plus. The first two episodes the case here too. We see Magneto Vs haired look. I believe this scene pulls it had Charles and Magneto confronting We have Roberto running up to a chainlink fence did it in the original intro. Episode 1 role in the show in that he was used as a way something Jubilee did in night of the sentinals We also have Lilandra of The Shia'ar empire She most notably appeared in the dark phoenix away Charles. We can see him off to the right and - This is why I think the characters gonna with him in the finale. Brought up last week of the X-men we met in The Marvels and We also have have a shot of the moment in which Cyclops tried to stop Jean. Rogue kisses her hand whilst its over Ghambits lips even though shes got a bit of Guessing that's gonna cause issues but Now from here we cut to the episode reference to whats gone on here with the fire made into Madelyn though you can also see Upon entering Jeans mind we see several flashes This is a clear call back to this image which face has been removed though and it reminded me This includes a shot of her as Marvel girl 2. We also get...killed me this mate...also with Wolverine turning his back as Cyclops no notes, all banging because of this moment. Next we cut to a moment directly from the Dark Pheonix arc and can even see We then have Scott comforting Jean before we this a big part of the comics but it also made Jean and Scott weren't technically married and was experimented on by Sinister and this is why Now it's also important to bear in mind from the show so it could hint to when it till death do us part part two in which both The pair seemingly escaped in the end but That happened all the way back in Season 2 so it would mean shes been gone for a pretty the iconic Uncanny X-Men 168 and became We then see flashes of Jean waking up in Sinisters dungeon. Escaping into the woods then then made across a TV shop. Shoutouts to our editor Matt for She then travelled out to the mansion Morph says its gonna get confusing and we Spiral. Like Cable she was kind of created future version of herself forced her to go wibbly wobbly stuff and Beast then drops Through carbondating the pair he's realised bit different from the comics as Jean Either way Scotts devastated but Same person. Even if its Morph...still...looks Now the revelation completely breaks Madelyn tries to smooth things over but even - Now the comics also had Madelyn is something that she suggested to implanted in her mind and it would She then hears sinister coming from the baby Down in the lab we get Bishop looking at a time past arc. Bishops had to remain in the past back home. Cyclops asks him why he hasn't heard to come from the future. In the MCU altering time this that things go on a different past. In the means that things can ripple and change. This in which meant that Bishop could alter things in I kinda see it as that timeline still being erased when things were changed. Technically if still does so it doesn't create a paradox. future on this branch in which the days of Lots of timey whimey wibbly wobbly stuff mate but Now we also see Jean getting again ties back to that image from that he believes shes the real one Now Beast figures out that it was Sinister her room looking creepy as s**t near that way of portraying how he haunts her and Sinister has planted one of his gems in her head Jean then starts smashing up pictures and show. That had the group all standing around They also have jean in her old costume The marvel girl costume also spills out onto this goodness is now gone. Madelyn at and dons a new costume due to Sinister similar to his design with the dark She also has his diamond in the centre of her head and possesses sorceress The green glow looks similar to the chemical from his dungeon and it helps Downstairs we see some of the group Rogue and Magneto have booked the suspicious mate...sure they're just sweating so much mate...that's why shes Now at the showers we see Morph in his and Sunspot eating popcorn. Love how you style ones which they cooked with at the start Now this sort of turns the mansion into a in the new mutants movie. Sunsport a character who played on the fears Matt pointed out it also takes lots of inspiration arc. Gambits worst fears come to life and he Shes wearing her torn outfit from X-men 274 which Madlyne also creates her goblin creatures which the tone this episode takes and we get a in the Ring...or Saddokoh. This then turns She also creates a nightmarish version of sister Shard. She appeared in the Days Of Future We also get a Sentinal that looks there's clear references to anime Beast brings up Dante's Inferno which is of hell. This is as they're surrounded by firry also get a nod to the Jabberwock as he rides Now Jean arrives during this after awakening arrives at this point though and I love Rogue and Magneto finally arrive and Morph brings up how Sinister 1800s which is a nod to his Essex was obsessed with evolution and he became stemmed from untapped powers within one which Essex discovered he was a mutant after coming truly became the villain we know. If you wanna animated series episode Descent which features of course playing off Nathanial which is Morph transforms into his original animated look that from when Sinister had control. assassin but Morph managed to break free from his died during night of the sentinals but sinister Heading out to Sinisters lab we see based off a witches Caldron. He also pulls down an electrical power lever which of course Heading to his Cathedral we see if you get a Goth girlfriend go for it mate. Morph then turns into Magick who and when controlled becomes her a deep cut for comic fans and I loved We then see her and Magneto duking it He can just control metal whereas she can pair also touched upon during The Last Stand. reminded me a lot of Castlevania with the Back at the mansion we see as there's who calms down Jean whereas its normally a flip on the first X-men movie and she goes Im just saying mate, there's two jeans now and Scott already has a kid with one...so lets Psychically travelling to Madelyn we also get a flashback to her as a child. to her directly and they had a scene Stand. She also has a Cyclops toy there as Both Jean and Madelyn share these are brought on by a car nearly hitting crash with her parent while last stand We also get several flashes of key moments perfectly off the death of Jean grey. The version here and that's due to that being However in the next shot to the left hand side Ice Man was also in the original X-men lineup might also notice there's a giant hand before he turned blue...dabadee daba die Noiw its nathan being a representation and she realises its the greatest Blasting Sinister I love how you can catch a big hole in his chest which then Sinister is of course an immortal and he's gonna be the main villain in the X-men MCu Also it seems like he utters some keywords - Clearly riffing off the winter and like CIA brainwashing Now Nathans been infected by was first introduced in the Phalanx Covenant. Its something that he suffers with in the cure we know he doesn't find it. They and brings up how he's gonna go out and Now this is where things get confusing Forge. I even right...even googled...mutant who can build anything x-men and his At the end though we see Forge storms powers back. What we're dealing character which should hopefully That takes us into theory time theory So we saw an older version than the one we meet Bishop went to the future and then told He then might have sent this message back to In the future I think we'll and this will be the one that helps out Cable. Interestingly Forge appeared in the Phalanx all be connected. So he may cure Storm of Storms ability's to help and this getting her powers back. In the comics that stripped her powers from her in the Anyway theory time. Just get a one some times. Now we see Madelyn then giving her baby away. This throughout time with the basis of Moses. He went sea. Both allowed the child to escape their fate Madelyn then ends up hitting the road and when they were switched and its kinda like Finally we end with Forge was voiced by Gil Its likely that they're now following a big story. Can see Storm and Forge there on the ends up starting a relationship with Forge find out who she really is. So far shes always shes more than them. It develops her more as individual instead of just being a Goddess. built the gun from episode 2 and it could add Anyway that closes out the entry 3 in a row for me and I'm so happy to a big review talking about these episodes MCU manages to do this in live action I feel that even more now and its difficult The animation is a bit...bit off at points In terms of story they're doing such a good their interesting arcs. I think in the past, lean very heavily on Wolverine and just ended up you don't even need him to tell a proper X-men Such a good way to start off the season to discuss the fourth entry. I don't think video might be a bit later and I don't want around for us. We should have it up for the through the breakdown. Make sure you leave your Please drop a like on the video and as a member of the Spoiler Society You'll get early access to videos every week Now if you want something else to watch we have With that out the way, huge thank I've been your host and I'll see