(various surgery sounds and chatter) We have a pulse. Good job, guys. I'm Chris Gordon. I'm a plastic surgeon And I had been working And while we were there one of the directors of the Shriners asked if we could be potentially interested He pulled out his phone and said, So at that point, I brought the case back to Dayton. to my colleague, Dr. Rob Lober. There are a few people in the world He's one of them. Conjoined twins is a rare condition. Pedro and Augusto, they're connected at the tops of their heads It's that rotation that makes It's understandable that spending most of their time lying on their nursing care and extra attention, So they're three years old You know, they're really intellectually I mean, they can get up and walk a bit, Positional pain, neck pain, back pain, just a lot of functional disability There's an imbalance in their blood flow and these kids are already showing Most common story is that these twins This particular set up I think, consign them to lying around in a hospital bed and that really is I think the family, they've been praying that this was a possibility This has been like two and a half years This started off with Dr. Lober and Dr. Gordon showing me a picture of the twins It was a whirlwind to get them here. I was actually able to fly down with Dr. Gordon to go get them. To do this ethically, we had to come up with a plan that would good chance of coming out of this with mild So after a lot of discussions we decided that the safest way to do this, done, would be multiple surgeries We think we're really well positioned We saw the possibility that we hope of having a normal life. Augusto and Pedro have strong personalities. Augusto is definitely the more chill, If you take away a toy but give him something else. He's okay. He's just kind of is go with the flow. Pedro is the opinionated one. He wants what he wants. And he will tell you if he doesn't They both love dancing and music. As soon as you turn on the music, They don't care what else you're doing. Just let them dance. So we found during their clinic visits, The goal of medical play So instead of the mask coming at them, being pinned down by medical staff it's a lot of just introducing the item They've had multiple imaging procedures They've been sedated for all those. So I've been there throughout and they're going for surgery soon, They share venous circulation. One child's blood vessels Where they both are semi dependent Then the question becomes is whether or not they can be made to rely on their own All the tests that we have done up to have been toward answering that question. And we're now at the point to see if this is a potential for safe before making any vascular disconnection we're going to test clamp a vessel to determine if the blood reroutes The plan is the same. We'll give you constant updates. Okay. And this will determine whether the separation is even possible. Today we're doing angiography. and then we're going to do a craniotomy for test occlusion and possible ligation Augusto to Pedro. Honestly, nobody's ever done So if you see something that looks like seriously, seriously, speak up. Is everybody agreement with proceeding? Agree. All right, let's do it. We've been practicing, rehearsing, and I think we have all the pieces Now our interventional radiologists are going to be placing catheters up so that we can confirm our access points to make sure that it's safe to Doctor Akil Patel from Kettering health is a huge partner for us. And for Dr. Lober quite frankly. If there's one guy that you want in this surgery It's Dr. Patel. He is an extremely important because of his expertise He's been incredibly valuable being able to provide advice and expertise and also the blood vessel So these are all the internal branches, Then there's your vein, the gold to understand the blood supply cerebral angiography or formal We're taking pictures with contrast to get a really good sense of blood supply. When you squirt the dye You see it pass through capillary beds and then to the The angiography really takes you through in real time Veins can close and open. So as soon as you clamp a vessel, you see the picture changes Look at that. Yeah. Beautiful, baby. Yeah, that's it. Yeah. Are we good? Yes and no change. In addition to the question vessel safely, there's the question of We were dealing with blood vessels in a human brain. The shared blood vessels at the back of these two kid's heads And if we had just tied a suture So we started thinking of other ways How else can we do this? One of our pediatric surgeons says, Well, JustRight(r) stapler. Let's take a look. So this thing, it's meant for GI. And then, like, think that blows. So that's what you get. Look at that. And I'm kind of thinking it might work. Wonderful. The JustRight(r) stapler It really was designed to clamp on to tissue. Shoot double rows of staples to close the tubes. And then this little razor blade goes Voila. You've got two separate vessels And that actually is more reliable methods. The first time we used it, though, I mean, it definitely gives you Three is down? Yeah. Four is to fire. OK, firing. Oh, nice. Oh, that's nice. Yeah. Good. Yeah. Feel a little woozy, alright. I need to lay down. (laughter) these first disconnections showing that separation Maybe we can do this. How are the boys Does she think they're in pain? The first surgery had some difficulties. We were very happy that we had planned to do. It actually went very, very well. Until it didn't. After what appeared to be correct surgery, we were having life They bled about a third of their blood And then we basically just held pressure and everything was sort of simmered down. We just sat there for a while. We had done a lot of mock drills It was starting to get a little uncanny I felt like we would be doing so we were able to accomplish Before we were able to close. We were able to get it under control. It still was very stressful for them. We think it's going to be okay. It's safer to keep them asleep We pray for the boys, but they've seen everything move So I just say we were keep them asleep You know, I'd love to know right now. But it's not worth it. Yeah. You know, it was almost word for word, It started to freak me out a little bit, but everybody That was the thing. I'm really happy with the team. Yeah. When she first got here, what were her thoughts? That is a wonderful testament. We might keep them a little sedated, but I'll have to discuss Do you have any questions about that? Just, God willing, that everything goes God's working through your hands. I hope so. Thank you. You have to really spend some time looking at how these vessels come together The problem is that the anatomy is distorted relative to what we're used to. One of the things you can notice about the blood vessels are all shifted over. This is the midline, which is akin to the sagittal sinus But it's not even at the midline. It's over off to the side. I actually have to spend time manipulating the images I've thought about this day after day, with an understanding If these kids were apart, Since they're together, This is the And so it starts to actually make sense. The area we'll be operating on tomorrow, is right, right in here. This is what we're trying to preserve And then meanwhile, that are coming from the Augusto's brain I had to clamp him about 5 minutes after unclamping him because he went down Other than that, Augusto He's stable. And this is, I mean it's pretty well healed So I know it's just giving a scalp expansion. So where I want to go next is I want to and, and there's frontotemporal connections And so get those down some of the frontotemporal dissection I feel very, very comfortable with who we have from the anesthesia standpoint. Doctor Antosh is an outstanding person that really cares about everyone. We'll take great care of them. The anesthesia team is amazing. Sean Antosh has put together You know, they're just shooting As an anesthesiologist, but we always think about the worst case how we can fix the problem How do we prevent that from happening? We've realized over time anything can happen at any moment. We have two teams. Augusto's always blue and and the care team taking care of them So that way we can delineate who's So anesthesia plays a big role managing their hemodynamics, And then in real time getting and being the glue that kind of keeps It takes a huge team to make this work. We have surgical technicians. People that prepare the instruments. Radiology technicians. We have circulating nurses. EEG technicians You've got people running for supplies. Pharmacy urgently delivering medications It's not just neurosurgeons, And there's Dr. Salim Mancho. And there's Dr. Scott Rapp. The plastic surgeons who are calm under fire. And we have my surgical assistant, Trish. She's like the other part of my brain. She is like the reality check. She really does everything from preparing the surgeries, And with these boys, she has just been an integral part of their care. At any one time there may be dozens of people in the room, all part of this well orchestrated team. It's a huge undertaking without each piece there. So that's what you're going Can you see it? Yep, that's the first one. We had a goal of where and actually visualizing where that spot was became And once we were able to see that we could see that it was not feasible It was going to be possible to do I was at one point thinking, I'm going to have to close and call it, You injure these vessels and you only have a few seconds to live. And it goes very, very quick. And so you can't really take It would be really heartbreaking We've left them worse off than they But the plan B really didn't have any guarantees that there was going to be a complication I just don't want to nip the torcula. Okay. That was two? Yeah, for ten seconds. Three down. Yeah. And then four is the scary one. We're gonna fire. Get ready for pressure if needed. Okay. I fired. So again, have the aneurysm clip ready. Straight back. I'm bleeding. Straight back. You're good. Just stick it in there. I think you did it. It seemed to go fine. We had a little bit of bleeding when we did the disconnection, It didn't get out of hand. We were pretty comfortable once we did it. I think just getting to So this morning we assessed them and they were ready for their breathing They're breathing great right now. They're just on a little bit of oxygen just because that breathing tube But overall, they're moving everything I would encourage PT, OT, out of bed. Just, get up and play and I think that'll help They both have been pretty much wild dance parties feel pretty good about how they're doing they're acting out and being wild It makes you feel like everything's Tuesday, craniotomy We are kind of reaching this critical moment. Now, It's absolutely essential that they tolerate their own venous return. Without any reliance upon each other. And to me, that's a huge moment. And so I just kind of feel like up to that. It's really the moment that tells you Oh yeah, it does feel like it. Come up from, where's his orbital rim at? They are definitely tough kids. Amazing what they've put up with. We're going to do some venous clamping. And test occlusion But honestly, there's really So if they don't tolerate it, Then we'll have to figure out what to do I think this is categorically different You know, the question at that time was, can you disconnect And they'll do okay. But each time you really are Now we're taking the final piece of this. And and there's no, really There's there's nothing there's no back up. So this is really about As soon as you tie off that vessel Now, you have to ask that child to rely on the venous system Will that be enough? Since they never had time to to grow the structures Will it be enough? Let's just let it out real slow. Beautiful boys. Did you see any bleeding? I didn't. It didn't bleed. I'm gonna be on the cover of staple world magazine. Look at this neurosurgeon stapling vessels. They told me I could have my stapler. We're going to keep them asleep to rest the brain because this is Tomorrow and after tomorrow I think so. I think so. We'll see how it goes. At every step, every surgery, you know, there's risks of terrible complications. And every time we wake them that they've had such a complex surgery They're back to their happy, And even recently they've been taking that with strides. Up until now, we've been working primarily between the two brains, What's going down tissue expanders under the skin to try to stretch out some more scalp, to get some extra skin We'll blow these up for several weeks, until we get enough extra skin, And then comes the marathon. What are the hopes? What hopes does That's good. We're down to the final days of the surgical plan. We basically try to get about halfway and about midnight when we're exhausted, The next day we come back And that's the plan. Here's the general concept. Disconnect this and the coronal vein the trollar coming from They do schematic drawings as to what to expect. But if I was to remove bone at a certain location, what would I see? And I do a mental process of the steps that I would go through to open the planes those structures. The reason why I draw it is This becomes very confusing sometimes just drawing the same structure It's kind of a meditation that I do see it, it makes sense to me. That's one thing that's so striking about this whole project. I've literally studied and I look at it and I still get confused. Augusto's face down, and Pedro's that way. This is kind of what we're going to be seeing. I can't tell where to cross or not. The angio looks like But the CT angio doesn't. It's just it's agonizing. But yeah, here it is again. There's that disconnection with the tie. Okay. You know, and you can see where our issue is, is we don't know exactly where Yeah, right. When we were dissecting we found something that we didn't know about. an artery that came up right at this spot and it ran this way, and then it connected in to the other kid. And so it was feeding his cortex. It's not really clear what the function But when we cut that vessel, this kid gets a stroke. I really have thought about it a lot and it ends up becoming At some point at night. I kind of feel like we're not going to know Midday or something. Yeah, we'll be here as a backup Welcome to everyone. There are precious children of God who will go through and we love them and we pray When someone has a stroke that affects their language. even though you can understand it that doesn't make any sense and you can't understand Both are very debilitating. It could be just a pure motor injury, or maybe the leg. It could affect sensory function. And so it's really kind of hard to say Mom's going to be aware of it. Everybody's going to know it could cause, you know, For Augusto, especially. What will happen is we're going and vecuronium infusions. So when you guys aren't operating, and to clear it for a little bit but we won't have any problems with asoplesia. I just don't know what we're going to see. Ultimately, The problem is I can't quite picture it. Yeah. That's They're going to take a hit. They're going to potentially be set back. And other people went into situations We know that you're going to lose function It's horrifying to me to hurt somebody on purpose, even if it's for good purpose. You guys are ready. You I mean, you've gone So just like Eisenhower said, planning plans are worthless. You will be affected by things It's ok. You've got prepared for any unpredictable scenarios I'm worried. But I do think that we've prepared more and I don't think that anybody understands So we're at the point where we're ready with the final disconnection. So, after two years of planning three major disconnection surgeries the time's When the boys first arrived, their So we watch the video countless hours and then waking them up So we decided that we would do So through the course of it, everyone's hats that we have on and what they loved Bringing them down today they're still there, happy, excited three and a half year olds who love Coco. We don't get to see them again awake So that's a little scary, We've done four craniotomies so I think they're up to 19 Since we've done so much anesthesia everyone has gotten to know their anatomy, We know how they act under anesthesia So I think we're more than well prepared. We've put them to sleep. We've wired their breathing tubes in. We've gotten vascular access, art lines, all the ways that you can give I feel like we're very prepared for this hopefully last step of getting him I don't think it's possible to do this in a way I think we've done everything Now It just remains to be seen if it works. This is going to be what we call Which means you're taking bone off One child will be face down and will come from one side, And when we get to a good stopping point, and go the other way. It's going to be a long, So it's going to be kind of a long day. We're not all the way through All right. You need one more staple. Okay. I'm going to come off and see how it goes. Oh, dang it. Subarachnoid adhesions. Are you kidding me? You knew it was going to be too easy. It became real clear that frontal temporal were not going to just fall away It's just that is adhesed completely I mean, it really looks on the imaging You can see it. Then we just got to keep coming around. And that's going I think we need to see it from above. You know. I'm afraid he's got an MCA coming So they're both going to have a stroke. All right. Do you say close it? That might be the safest thing to do. So we don't hurt them. Yeah. The blood vessels from one child were feeding the speech and that kid's blood vessels that area were feeding the other kid. And that was not clear to us from the CT angio so we we really couldn't have known it. Alright. Hey Rob, have you heard the good news? Oh, please give a good news. The labs look great. Blood pressure's normal, without an inotropic support. Good news. Just wish we could get the brains apart now. It'll get there. That was a struggle. We're gonna try a new angle, The second morning we came in from the left side, We were able to get between the brains, And then that took us to mid-afternoon on the second day. Straight up. Okay, now let's go ahead and rotate. One, two, three, rotating. It's going to be something like that. We pushed on through the night, We were getting torrential bleeding from one of the sinuses Just any time you touch even the virginal dural wants to bleed. We were probably 9 hours at the same site. We hadn't moved a millimeter. Ultimately, the stapler was the key. We would staple. Pack. Wait. Staple. Pack. Wait. We just kept on moving forward with the stapler. And eventually we got across the site. There were adhesions of the brain to the lining. We actually had to sacrifice some of the frontal cortex At this point, we'd already caused more sort of intentional damage than we had set out to do, or that I was So that that was very difficult. I knew that I had hit my limit. We rested and then we got back to it There's no choice, you know, you can't stop. We were depleted. I hit a point where I thought And I thought that we might lose them. And then we hear from the anesthesiologist aren't going to take much more of this. It was much longer than any of us After being in the operating room so long, body physiology Basically, they were just showing By the time we were on the third day of this huge surgery, There's nothing we could do Because once they were circumferentially disconnected, You cannot move them. He's going to die. I was at the point I was like, this We can't do it. I thought, this is going to be another 10 hours of us looking at it. At that point, I couldn't think any more about And at that moment, Scotty Rapp comes in. He said, Rob, all you have to do is get to my finger. Just get to my finger. And I just feel like Dr. Mancho and Dr. Rapp came in They really saved the day. I was clearly a little more fresh, you know, because I wasn't sitting And so we just needed And that was really the main goal was we just had to keep moving forward Intercerebral separation. 5:43 A tremendous moment when we're ready It was an amazing, miraculous thing to see. One, two, three. I'm still trying to get my mind around it. When it happened, it was it was surreal. Separation is a huge change for their bodies. And it's very easy to not survive This didn't stop in the operating room. In the ICU, They were working around the clock We went through weeks of critical care to help us with every system Augusto was extubated and awake on Easter Sunday. It was a real gift. That reinvigorated everybody to see that and was actually on a trajectory We are now two weeks post-separation. Brain imaging looks like there's nothing to prevent them from recovering. We see that the brain stems are fine. Arterial supply is strong and the venous drainage looks appropriate. So we're pretty happy. It's just going to take them And so we just have to stick with it. I think the gains that you make early on to get them on the right track Pedro has been slower to recover. He should be getting extubated today. And it's going to take some time We have Augusto working with physical therapy, standing for short he's moving all of his extremities and just very slowly getting his strength We got a scan and areas that there were, and swelling initially looked as if they had recovered quite well. And the other crazy thing was Pedro He has grown It's not like he's growing back he's actually now growing skull I think the recovery that they have to go For example, how hard it is if you've never done that before. But I think we accomplished which was to give them a chance (laughter) Thee first time I saw a smile or a laugh I just felt they are going This was the right thing. You can tell that their personalities and seeing Augusto like that This is truly what Dayton Children's It touches everything that we do (clapping) yeah, The care did not end with the separation. About a year after the separation, It took a while for the wounds to heal. They continued to do their neurological And then once we were set with that, we were able to get them back home. Adios. Adios. And that was always and be in their culture and, you know, to live, lived their best life, To have them at this point is incredible. This is it. Yep Here we go. They found a great home for the kids. This is the therapy room. And seeing them in that environment They were playing with the other kids (laughter) To see that they're going to be loved and that people are going to And I think they are going to thrive. And I think what we were seeing leading up to going back to Guatemala is that it Augusto was speaking again. he was saying four or five words So that is going to pick up where those functions can transfer Hi Pedro. ?Como estas? The strength is going to be a long term But we are seeing that with support so I think they're going to walk. I do believe over time there's going to be quality of life. So the prognosis is good. It's just, it's a long process. They sort of have to reprogram. We talk about providing optimal health to all the children within our reach and what we're doing here Eventually, Augusto's heart was going to fail. and eventually Pedro's We had to do it. It was the right decision, ultimately. We still have work to do that we're doing remotely with them. And we still think about I was thinking about them this morning, as I'm kind of planning my day. You know, those kids will always be a part of me now and they're going to be a part