Impact, the force with which Sometimes for good, But we have our Phone Mrs. Williams,. Tell her to be ready in about Yes, Mr. Williams. You phone Sam and and see if from the executive. Yes, Will. Well, Mr. Mr. Darcy, what's I'm afraid it is, Walt. If you think you can persuade go right ahead. Gentlemen, I never interfere or anything else I must run my department Either I know why and when or you need another boy. And that's all Because I can take my own spot motor You won't have to worry there won't be many. I'm sure none of us want to What do you say we All in favor of buying signify by saying aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. A unanimous vote. Congratulations, Walt. Congratulate the board, Williams, if these valuable that other companies to get them, how do can buy them at the How do I know? I bought them this morning. Della, I was asked to rush Did you my wife, Della? Your maid said she's I gave her the message. Oh, fine. Oh, this just came. Thank you. What about those papers? They're here. Burke's checking them now. Good. Congratulations, Walt. Take a look at clause haven't been clarified yet. Oh no? I wanted to leave Get Judge Derring on Nevermind. I can get faster action if I and stick with him Yeah? Mrs. Williams on three. Oh, put the blueprints of I want Jackson to see them. Hi, duchess. I'm afraid now we won't be able What? You're not going with me? But I counted on it. But I thought as soon of whatever it was, I don't. Stupid thing still aches. And I certainly desirable driving companion. Now seriously and buy your little I'll send your And cheat me out Not a chance. I've got to drive over to San Love me? Bye, dear. How do you expect me to Nothing in in the as sweet as you do, duchess. I certainly don't feel sweet. I'm as grouchy as an old bear. Well, Doc Williams can give Close your eyes. Relax a minute. Take a look at that and see Oh, Walt. Oh darling, it's beautiful. Not bad. Not bad at all. You know, to quote my wife, it shows they belong When did your wife say About six years ago She gave me the first I ever owned. Those were the I still have it. I certainly hope your never discovers what They won't. Don't worry. I have only one vulnerable spot. What really happened All I got out of Della of the office with and were back in no time with Oh, I clipped They're short. No one's going to Not when I know I'm right. Mm-hmm. But how did you convince the With subtle hints and Like this. Either I get what I want or And that's all Walter. What a clumsy ox. I'm sorry, duchess. Oh please, sweet, If you could have Oh, don't bother dear, Not exactly a good You know you're The way I feel will probably make a If it's not going to Yes? I'm sure that by Swell. I'll run over to San Rafael and be back for you Darling, wait. That's perfectly, silly. I'll take a taxi cab and There's a drugstore on the I'll be there at 5:00 and we That'll save you all that the time it will take Smart woman, my wife, Where is your bag, honey? Oh, Su Lin still has some You sure you don't Very sure. Sweet dreams, duchess. See you at 5:00. I'd better get going. Bye, hon. Long distance. I want Berkeley seven, Hello. Ah, hi ya, beautiful. Yeah. Here. Don't forget, turn to a bell boy at the Tell him to hold Jack Burns, the Airport Hotel. That's right. I'll be checking in later. What do I owe you? A $1.15 to here, all this Yeah, yeah here. Buy yourself a Fine. Hey, where's that new woman It's after 5 o'clock. Oh, gee, I was so sure Maybe you'd better get Of course, I understand, Just to prove it to you, No, you really I'm going to be perfectly And besides... Besides what? Well, I've done something You remember Aunt You mean the old I'm way ahead of you. How much? Well, It isn't money this time. It's another relative, her All of a sudden out of the he telephoned me from Berkeley. OK duchess, I'll see Well you don't You're going to I'm what? Well, all he seemed able to get back So you buy him a ticket. Well, it isn't. I offered to, but he he didn't want any handouts. Well, without we'd pick him up and give I won't say I'm getting But where do I find this guy? Well, he should I told him to be on the lookout just in case we one another after Oh darling, you're such a lamb. Are you sure you forgive me? What do you think? Well, I better along. Your cousin Jim Take it easy, sweet. And miss me, will ya? I do already. Don't drive fast, and please Goodbye. Hello, Della? Yeah, Mrs. Williams Now, while I'm gone, gets her roses every morning. That's right. But this time on all the Yeah, S-O-F-T-Y. Hello. You must be Jim Torrence. Yeah, that's me. I'm Walt Williams. Hi, Jim. Hi. Where's Irene? Oh, she's a little at the last minute, worst luck. Ah, that's too bad. I was hoping I'd see her. Yeah, I'm disappointed too. Where's your luggage? Ah, I'm wearing it. Less trouble that way. Irene tells me you're Yeah. Goings been a I haven't exactly been What's your line, Jim? Oh, I guess I'm a better Hmm. You know, I can give you a back to Chicago That's fine. A little in with the What outfit were you with? Patton's Third Army. How was it? Rough. Except for the time in Italy, Patton's outfit Of course. But most civilians and I figured you didn't either. Well, I fooled you that time. Our last chance to chow No, thanks. I grabbed a hamburger while I can still taste the harness. Are you sure you Nah, I'm going to Chicken sandwich and a Coke. One chicken sandwich. Chicken sandwich coming up. Give me change for Oh, sure. Thank you. San Francisco, uh, Klondike Klondike two, six, seven, Oh, well, well, try Setter one, Bayview Apartments. Oh yes, Mr. Williams. No, your maid isn't She said Mrs. Williams to make her sleep and But perhaps... No, no, don't disturb her. Just leave a forget about a certain problem. Mhm. I think I have it, sir. You want her to forget all Softy, is that S-O-F-T-Y? Softy is going to take Is that all? Yes, that's all. She'll understand. Be sure she gets it the Bye. Oh, hi. It's been so long since of anything but a I had to find out what Why don't you That's swell. Nothing would suite me better. Tell me, uh, Irene still got The one she from the fall? Yeah. You can hardly How did you know about that? I thought you said you Uh, uh, from Aunt How else? She always sends me the I'm sure Aunt Margaret will Irene says you're I'm afraid my lovely giving me a build You don't know Irene. Maybe not. What's the matter? I think we've got a flat. Yeah, flat as a flounder. Well, let's get to work. I Hey, look out It's quite a drop. You got a flashlight? I think I have. Get the jack, I'll take a look. Did you find it? Yeah. It won't be long now. Come on, let's get going. Uh, wait a minute. Did one of your Huh? Well, something dropped. I, I saw it fall down Hm. It must have rolled From Irene and me. Hello. Need a hand? No, no, I'm all set now. OK. Goodnight. Keys. Need any help, bud? That guy must be crazy. Now, in case my husband to rush for his plane, Thank you. Show Mrs Burns to 302. Irene and me, sucker. Irene and me, sucker. Take Young lady. Excuse me. I want to see Mrs. I'm sorry, sir. But she left orders I'm sorry too, Lt. Quincy of the police department. Hello. I thought I left orders Ask him to come up, please. Yes? I'm Lt. Quincy with the I'm study to disturb you at Of course. Well, lieutenant? Did your husband go on a Why, yes, he went to Why? Was he driving a Yes, is, is anything wrong? I'm afraid there is. Won't you sit down? Has, has something Yes, Mrs. Williams. He's dead, isn't he? Yes. Oh, Walt, I knew something I begged him time and again It wasn't a hitchhiker, It was just an accident. He ran into a truck, You mean there was fire? He must have been I don't think he felt If there's nothing more you I think I understand. And may I say you've taken this Goodnight, Mrs. Williams. Take care of yourself, Softy. Irene and me, sucker. Ready? Yeah. That Williams must Yeah, he went to work as a sheet metal worker. Mhm. In less than ten years he's Well, he sure went out Yeah. All right, let's go. Softy. From Irene and me, sucker. Softy. Sucker. Softy. Sucker. Could Mr. Burns have and still make connections I see. Thank you. Yes? There's some Just put them under Please, tar tar, a policeman Ask him to wait, Su Lin. Mrs. Williams will You'll wait please. Flowers for Mrs. Thank you. Roses, Mr. Williams always You seem to have been Su Lin is honored to have And he... I'm sorry to keep you I wouldn't be disturbing you And I won't be keeping You're being very considerate. Won't you sit down? Everyone's been most thoughtful. And why shouldn't they be? Forgive me. I'm all right now. What was it, Lieutenant? The state police would like They found some wavy skid on the road as if the car when it crashed. Tell me, was Mr. Williams Why no, he was a fast driver, Well, was he, was Quite the contrary. What about his health? Could he have had a heart before the accident? I, no, he, he was But he'd been working and, and was overtired. Perhaps he fell asleep Oh, poor darling. If only I'd been able to he might still be alive. Well, maybe and maybe not. You mustn't blame Fate plays an important Your handkerchief. When's the next train 10:00 a.m. tomorrow. Uh, you're sure there No, I'm sorry. We have a circuit now, sir. Evanston calling residence in Evanston. One moment please. Hello? Mrs. Margaret Hubbard? Yes. Who's this? Long distance. I have a call from Who? Mr. James Torrence. He's a nephew, Jim Torrence. The call is for your I haven't any nephew, and I Sir, uh, Mrs. Hubbard What's the matter, son? Looks like you need a doctor. A doctor? I can't leave the Bender's just across Yeah. Doctor. Yeah. I'll make it. Now, take it easy, man. There's some concussion there. You've got to watch Yeah. Walter Williams' beautiful sat alone in the family Smart, someone might have Hey, what's that? Walter Williams. Walter, hey, ain't that the what is that He's dead. They did him a dirty Now, wait a minute. Don't touch it. We better turn it Homicide, Captain Callahan. Oh yes, Chief. The Duke just came The fingerprints are I'm putting Quincy on it. Right. That opens up a new can of There's the FBI Playing with ladies' affections All you've got to do, Yes, that's all I've got to do. Last known whereabouts was in a moving van somewhere east. Wait a minute, wait a minute. Last known address care of his Irving Apartments, Berkeley. Well, what are you Let's go. Did Torrence leave any No, he said he was Sorry to trouble you. Oh, uh, Lieutenant. If you should happen to hear There's an unpaid telephone Laundry? Let's have a look. Maybe I'll have to take this Not without a receipt, You mean you don't In my business you Mine too. Holy St. Valentine's Day. Look he had the same Well, romance in your Did you ever see the lady? You know, I never did. But I always knew here, the wonderful perfume. I'll lay you ten to Could be. But I'll get you Pretty fancy stuff Yeah, but he's a According to the shirt maker, had these made special. And they're just only his initials were WW. Sort of smells, don't it, Cal? Now, take a look at It was also found I for Irene and W for... couldn't it? Yeah. Homicide, Callahan speaking. Hello? Oh, hello, Fritz. What news? Uh-huh. Any luck? Both days, huh? Swell. Have it typed up and sign it. This report from Fritz will for this pile. His check up shows calls to Williams' private number. And a flock of them going on the seventh and The eighth in case is the date of Walt That ought to be enough of the grand jury. Go pick her up. I'd like to play It might give us two for one. Well, take them one at a time. A bird in the hand... Is not going to I'd like to give the Well I... Thanks, I thought you'd agree. Well, Lieutenant, uh, I was... I'm glad. I have some rather I thought you should know Come in. Thank you. Sit down, won't Thank you. I'm very anxious to It seems that your first hunch, responsible for your husband's you may have been right. Why, I, I don't understand, Your husband's briefcase yesterday in a moving at the scene of the Apparently the murderer That explains the that made us suspect ill or unconscious at Yes, I, I suppose it does. And by now the man is and never will be found. Don't you worry, Mrs. Williams. There were fingerprints And as soon as we get the his identity will be sent out on police broadcast. Oh, we'll find him all right. But just know we're keeping will feel safe until we are Yes, I I can see Yes, I thought you would As soon as we know his that you might recognize it There's that possibility. You know I'll do Are you sure of it? Now, I'll run along. You'll hear from me. I'll let myself out. Don't bother. And don't worry. Good day. See, everything after the has been obliterated by The only impressed are those between like RNS at the end And the Hotel Santa here Well, Tom, don't you think Why there isn't even evidence intent to communicate And who do you think she beat to wire to, the I'll tell you what I think. That you should have brought By the time you have figured out a way He'll be that much Not unless she's tipped Ernie's got her on Pretty good, huh? Fastest growing Have a heart, son. Are you trying to Oh. Sure, it's a hobby of mine. The way you're going Here, I just can't let you Back her up. OK, start her up. Shut it off. You're certainly not a mechanic Maybe it's a hobby of mine. Gee, what happened Perhaps I was talking when OK? OK by me. Thanks a lot, Harold. So long, Marsha. Bye. She's all right now. You better lay it off I'm the boss. I guess the new cars are Now, with a jalopy Aren't there any mechanics No, they all went over to I guess they got better wages. Tough break. How much do I owe you? Oh, forget it. But I'll be shoving along. Well, at least have You might as well. Marsha, can I use your - Sure, help yourself, Uncle Ben. 650 please. Flat tire this morning stalled on me. Nice and cold. Woodson's Garage. No, I did not give Fine thing using my phone to Aren't you ashamed? Gave me the wrong number. 650 please. You're a nice and your Ma's a fine woman. And I'll always buy But you ain't never going Busy? Busy, always busy. Wait a minute. We're not so busy. Would you like to and give Uncle Ben a hand? Why not? Maybe I can help you. Why, are you a good mechanic? Very good and very reasonable. Well, just what you need, girl. Better hire him. It's an idea, Uncle Ben. Come on. Thanks for the Coke. Sure. Well, I got Uncle Ben Nothing but a sticky Goodbye. Well, I hope he paid you. What for? It only took a minute. You're certainly not Here. This is no kind of Somebody has to do it if And I want to. Most be some business that Can you lease this Sure. I did while my But when he was well, we made a lot of And I had a hunch took over and tried Takes more than a I got along famously. Business has been fine until Could be again if I Yeah. You sure need one all right. Oh, for Pete's Do you want the You mean you'd hire me without You can repair automobiles, Except your name, well? Why not? Sure, I'll try it get someone permanent. The name's Bill Walker. OK, Bill, it's a deal. And maybe if business gets Don't count on it. Where's this go on the rack? Yeah. Marsha, Marsha, it happened. It's a boy, eight A pair of shoulders Well, congratulations, papa. How's Jane? Ah, perfect. Everything's perfect. I've got to get down to the I almost forgot. Oh, gee, thanks. I'm sorry I won't have Yippee! Say, we haven't settled Maybe I can't pay Suppose we leave that how much I'm worth Doesn't seem to be any Might be a good time for and find a place to board. We live right next door. I'll go ask Mom. She'll know of a place. Sort of a peaceful house. I noticed it this morning. Oh, gosh I forgot. She's down helping Mom finds homes for To stray mechanics? Well, you're not I'll go phone. Pearl, 674 please. Hello, Ms. Wellsley. May I speak to Mother. Hi, Mom. I've got some good news for you. I hired a man for the station. Yeah. No, nobody we know. He's from... He's Needs a place to board, you OK. She says she has to meet you Huh? And you like apple Cherry. Cherry it is, Mom. See you later. Now, I've got to Hey, where's the The one and only, Tell Judd you're working for me. When you get back we'll Thanks. Oh, that's real nice. You must have had a good Thank you for the young man. We thank thee and ask thy blessing and our new friend I hope you're good Who wouldn't be? Marsha eats like a sparrow Can I have your plate, please? Well, she can taking it She never takes anything easy. She has to put her whole she does. Well, now that you're through Have you thought of a Well, why can't We have a spare And I think you like my cooking. Like it? That's very kind But it seems an imposition. Imposition nothing, I can get back what I pay Oh, Marsha, what If you'd like to stay, Will you have some Mrs. King, you have a boarder. May I have a biscuit please? Excuse me. OK, Ms. Gallis. It's wonderful to come alive in your hands. You seem to sort of though you got real pleasure I do. When you're doing you can't think Bill, if something's why don't you get rid of it? What would you Amputation for the stupid What you need is a ring job, Gee, Bill, with the just can't afford it now. Ah, we'll take care of that. Hey, boss. How's Ed's credit? Good enough for a ring job? Well, sure if I can hold Oh, not a chance fella. Never mind I'll do Ah, thanks Bill. Maybe we'll see Some shoulders, huh? Yeah. Some father, huh? Bye Marsha. Bye. Nice kids. Hey, was that clowning No, things have been ever since he got Fix the car for him and only Then he gets it for free. I'd already figured Say, we could make it Anniversary of what? Junior's arrival and mine. Three months ago today. Time certainly flies. That was a lucky day when Your work's been bringing I'm glad of that. Say, look boss, why tonight and go to the movies? Ed said he and Jane were going. Well, that lets Mom out, I'd love to go, Bill. I haven't been in ages. Here's your opportunity. Go to work. Extra, extra. This is Sheila Graham of the shocking While beautiful Irene Williams with conspiring to the police are searching to be the lover of Mrs. in the horrible murder If I'm handling your case, I want one third of You're out of your mind. You don't realize what Perhaps you don't realize Torrence's fingerprints on your husband's of speaking on your There's a detective named he isn't exactly for you. Frankly, Mr. to wonder if my Underestimating the would scarcely be wise. Now, if we can get to trial he'll never get a conviction. But... But what? If he shows up we Oh no. Let's not cross that But if it comes to a choice, are we? Aren't you the What about this afternoon? Oh, sorry, boss, I guess You're only supposed to Is there anything Yes. What's San Francisco Better newspapers Anyway, California's supposed I thought that by I do very much. It's a good town, nice Thanks. We like you too. No fooling though, how many people ask What kind of questions? Oh, where you came from, Do you like it here and Al Knox asked me at if you wanted to join the Just interested friendly things. I suppose it is to wonder about a stranger like I did. You know, I've been wasn't such a good idea you last night. It's all right being seen in but... You get used to that They're always trying You just ignore it and after I'll go get cleaned. You know, I hate years this Sunday takes me back. Did you always fall I wasn't asleep, Mrs. Peters. I merely closed my Oh, so that's what you call it. I had to nudge you to Quiet, you're disturbing It even smells the same. It could be the same bees As they say, you can take a A rolling stone It has to stop rolling Sometime maybe. We grow a very becoming shade Don't you think? You grow a lot of Any one in particular? I'll have to skip the Someone tore it out of the book. You're married Yep. That's right. You must have to be hurt so deeply, of someone, even yourself. Maybe it's better that Bitterness and Can't you see, Bill? They're like a wall that from the garden and Make room in your heart for I guess this is Sorry. As Mom would say, you never rich Hey that's a fire. Anybody home? In here, Bill. Mrs. Wellsley sent a said you helped her can them. When I delivered insisted that I have Where's the boss? She took a book back Oh. What a day. Hey, what's the idea? Are you darning my socks? Well I thought a drawer isn't doing you much good. I found it when I put fresh papers You have a heap of the haven't you son? Does Marsha know? Do you think I'd tell her? This is your problem, Bill. Because I found out about to tell anyone else, When you trust folks And you give them a chance that seems right to them. How can one little Don't forget, it's a and understanding at I'm going next door for a Mom. Bill, are you home? Bill, are you in there? Yeah. Mom went next door, Marsha. Hi. Did you work awfully late? Oh, about 6:00. Anything wrong? Come in. I want to tell you something. I'm checking out. Has something happened? No, I'm doing done a long time But why, Bill? My name isn't even Bill. There isn't any Bill Walker. I'm Walter Williams, the Walter Williams? I don't understand. You may not even But at least you'll Sit down please. Finally Larkspur and you. From there on you know. I'm glad you're going Going back? Wild horses couldn't What are you going Nothing. You're going to let her Oh no, Bill. Why not? She tried to kill me, But they didn't. Who said they didn't? Let them try and prove it. No matter what can't be tried for something Oh Bill, can't you see? You bet I can see. She deserves everything The sorry part of it is No, Bill, the sorry part to take a hard jolt to Sure, it hurts to be by someone you love But that doesn't to take justice to trample on the hearts of A barren, frustrated to a woman who accepted so thoroughly she I'll never think of our moments I feel stripped bare, degraded. Because you've closed to everything else even me. Oh Bill, please. Don't destroy the one chance We haven't got a chance. Doing the right thing I know. In this world, you and you get hit Forgive me, boss. Try and forgive me. It's a boy. Pair of shoulders You know, I hate to tell this Sunday takes me back. You have a heap of the things that Take care of yourself, Softy. Irene and me sucker. Softy. Softy. You're not big enough to take a hard Sure, it hurts to be by someone you love But that doesn't to take justice trample on the hearts of But, Bill, please don't we have for happiness. Mrs. Peters was kind enough at least the Larkspur portion Very thoughtful of Mr. Williams, when you that the hitchhiker had been a close friend of it must have been a I didn't come here to Lieutenant. If you need me for Captain, my office will Let's go, Marsha. Just a minute, Mr. Williams. We'll need your signed we ask for your wife's release. It won't take long to be typed. Yeah. All right. Come in. Sit down. Mrs. Williams, we Really? I can scarcely wait. It seems it was Torrence who It's Jim, dead? You did it. You killed him. No. He tried to kill And he ran into the truck. It was an accident. An accident? You wait all these months You let me rot in Wait a minute. You let everybody Pretty convenient, wasn't it? A dead man can't be Mr. Williams, perhaps your if you would explain to Amnesia? Oh don't tell me you Where's he been wandering around in a daze? He tells us he's been in in Idaho, working as a station run by Mrs. Peters here. I understand perfectly. Now that my chance I suppose you'll demand to give me so that That's fantastic. Yes, isn't it? After you telling us that was a perfect stranger. That's not true. The time and place for meeting I must advise you can't testify There's a law against murder And nothing's going to stop me It's all right with me, Captain. Go on talk your head off. I, I, I was to have He insisted on it, Several hours before we There was a violent scene. He threatened to kill me And I wish he had. This is incredible. Not one word that Then you have nothing Mrs. Williams, was there a mentioned? No, unless the maid overhead. She was in the apartment. In fact, she picked up that he threw at me. Where is she now? I don't know. She left me suddenly Please could the questions wait? I feel rather ill. Will you have Mrs. Williams 10 o'clock tomorrow morning. That's all. We're going to hold you too, On what charge? Suspicion of murder. But he's not guilty Then it should be Take him down and book him. That fiction of Mrs. Williams No, we just couldn't buy that Let's go. And Daly's going to (...) OK, boys, hop to it. I want all I can tomorrow for the Grand Jury. OK, Chief. Oh, Tom, don't miss a bit. Dig up everything you can on You surely believed Irene Call? She made better Well, sure, she's a Don't forget I went all widowhood with her. She's a bad customer. Well, that's for the And Williams insisted So it is his funeral. Funeral all right, especially But murder is out of There's a few pieces They might be in Idaho. If it's not too much out of You're going to miss me, Maybe I'll turn private eye Hi, Williams. Mr. Williams. Thanks. Sort of feeling it from Sorry Williams. OK Williams. Well, not very good news Well, Walt, the an indictment against you. Mrs. Williams was released. I see. Now, don't you worry, Walt. We'll have you back at and in short order. Come on, Eldredge waiting for him more We're just leaving Mrs. Peters. But remember, don't hesitate Thank you so much. Hi, boss. Bill, what have I done to you? If it weren't for me If it weren't for I came back here because I you do. I still do, no Will you do something for me? Mhm. Go back home. So I know you'll Not a chance. You'll have to think than that to get rid of me. I'm a big girl now. I've just been to Where I found these Of course, some of them but you seem to treasure So? I don't think they your claim of amnesia. As if you were interested claim of mine. Now let's get one Most people when think the police are only Our job is to get And the truth never hurt All I seen was a Ah, quit kidding You made the bone up. I had no more to do with And out of the whole population you just happened to happened to be your Ah, have a heart will you? I suppose you'll tell the But you better have some if you expect the Wait, Lieutenant. Bill, we all know But we're going to need help Lt. Quincy can't take he has to be on ours. And I have a hunch Why don't you tell All of it, please. I'd like to. Thank you very much. I guess I should have told the But I wanted to be with as little Well? No sign of the lug My dear Mrs. Peters, stop trying to be a detective? How many times do you think this spot for any Now be a nice girl, take Go back to Larkspur. What time is it? It's only 4 o'clock. We still have time and go on a hunt for Su Lin. You've had me on the But Lieutenant, the maid We've got to keep looking That's all? Wait, she was Shuffling chopsticks. Quincy you dumb flat foot. This Su, what's her name? Was Chinese born. If her port of entry there'd still be a file Let's go. Back to town, immigration. I hope the counselor has Are you Ah Sing? Understand? You speak the English? Also French, May one ask what is desired? We're looking for Su Lin Chung. A Chinese counselor and might tell us where she is. This daughter of offended the honorable police? Oh, no! They just wanted to ask her Mr. Williams, the man Ah Sing's heart is heavy that But things that are not Well if you hear anything of Su Lin, untruth is And not wisdom when Better for the soul to Su Lin must keep silent You know, you're quite a gal. In case I haven't You're just too easily There must be a way out. Why can't we find it? Oh, buck up, boss. Tomorrow's another day. It's the day you go to trial. Bill, I'm afraid. And the state intends to prove that the defendant, did with malice of forethought Torrence who he knew And then with his he drove he car into the jumping clear himself some And subsequent he in the back of a And for three months as Bill but it imprisoned for conspiracy in But then he decided that He thought he could eat So he returned, most anxious and to write the had imprisoned his Ladies and gentlemen blooded premeditated murder. It must be punished to the Call the first witness please. Captain Callahan, tell you what suddenly cured No, he did not. But he did tell you the man that the amnesia was a hitchhiker he had picked up. Yes. And that he knew nothing or a relationship with his wife from his amnesia and That's what he said. We should all Your witness counselor. No questions. No, I saw no signs of amnesia, He was a bit evasive But not vague or unsure. In your opinion, doctor, have been caused by a fall? Yes. If the head had such as a stone or a metal pipe. That's all, thank you. Your witness. Dr. Bender, are you familiar wrench for changing I'm afraid I am sir. I've had a regular epidemic Well then in your head injury which caused by a blow Yes. It could have been Thank you, doctor. The ones with the earliest are heavily creased been carried in a Thank you. Lt. Quincy, will you where you found these In the bedroom occupied Peters' home in Larkspur, Idaho. Is this your Yes, sir and at least a record carbon of it. Would you read it June 9th, 8:32 p.m. Message for Mrs. Walter Williams, &quot;Mr. Williams called, said he wants you that Softy's going to take Was there any Well, I just asked and he said yes, And sort of laughed as if Some joke killing The state versus All the rounds so far have And it was a grim faced Williams this afternoon. What the score will the stand is anybody's guess. But he's going to need to get a decision. And though Torrence after telling you, this is you still telephoned out if there was a cousin Jim. You are hard to convince Is it so incredible against believing such Oh, that is very touching. I'm a husband who planned a trip his wife and did kill her lover. That's a lie. Your honor, I object by the prosecutor be stricken from the records. But your honor, there is Was your wife's lover. Objection sustained. There's also her own story you insist that she tell. And then we have your from your own lips. One featuring a perfectly an equally strange cousin Jim of substantiation for either of them. Su Lin! Follow that Yellow cab. Please hurry. Wait for me. Su Lin! Su Lin. Ah Sing. You remember me, don't you? I was here with Lt Quincy I just followed Su I saw her come in here. You must be mistaken. I'm not mistaken, she's here. I must see her. Ah Sing, don't you understand? It's to save a man from I will send her to you. Oh, Su Lin. We've been looking for Mr. Williams need your I can not help. You must forget that Forget it? But you're his only witness. You're the only Not as a witness. Only with silence can I to me and my family in China. Why? I heard other things. That most unhappy day bedroom his voice A flower vase broke into pieces. He can explain all that. I do not believe what That I heard anything Don't you see? Yes. Much sorrow comes from women And Mrs. Williams she's not What made you say that? That night when he was was but wall of falsehood. Behind which you could go You mean she went Su Lin are you sure? Yes. Because next morning I found street shoes that on the closet floor, with out as though removed hurriedly. And in one pocket a Su Lin, that's it. Proof that she and to meet that night after What hotel was it? Oh, I don't remember. The key, what Returned to coat pocket. Come on. We'll get to Lt. Quincy, he'll know what to do. And pray Su Lin every Now, hold everything. Even if this long we'll just keep on pitching. Here it is, yes. Room 302, Airport Hotel, Maybe we got our miracle. Especially the Chinese one. It is the hope that Su Lin was Oh, Su Lin. Come on, next stop Oakland. Let's see the little I was on night duty. But I sure don't remember Quite a dish, eh? A little too highly seasoned Lieutenant, I just found a on June 9th. Judge Baxter Mr. and Mrs. J. Burns J. Burns, Burns. Look Quincy. The handwriting on the on the photograph. And here's a little the cover up telegram And look at the impressions. J here and here RNS. J Burns. That's the name she Room not slept in. Say, I got that dame She said they'd by midnight, because her But Quincy. This ties it all up, doesn't it? Yeah, like a greased pig. What do you mean? We've got the evidence Of what? Su Lin's theory that Irene This evidence only to keep a date with We can't even prove that But you know he didn't. It was only a name that Fine. If you can prove that But none of this will prove it. Sorry, copper. But we are just up Right There's a couple sample Came up from the Take them to Parlor B Sure thing, sir. Be seated. The case of the state Proceed, Mr. Eldredge. Your honor, we will Take the stand Mrs. Williams. Raise your right hand. Do you solemnly swear that the has cause to be the truth, but the truth, so help you God? I do. What cooks? The defense calling her? Mr. Eldredge, in calling this witness? Merely for purposes of Now, Mrs. Williams this Was stolen from my apartment. So according to to Walt, my adoring and this belongs to Mr. Williams. This is your Of course. I'm touched that he should And this telegram addressed is that also your handwriting? It is. Now, Mrs. Burns, I This photograph is and adored, Irene. Did you write this too? I, I see no point in all this. Merely answer Did you write it? I did. And these letters addressed did you write them? Yes. And this monogrammed garment a Why must I be tortured I never made any secret of That's why he's dead. Your love for Jim Torrence? Yet on the very you had a rendezvous with a I don't know what I don't know any I was at home that Oh yes, the sleeping pills. Well, you must walk For you spent at least at the Airport Hotel in Oakland. Where you registered for Don't waste the court's This is the registration card And there's the room clerk And this, Mrs. Williams, is the key carelessly left in the was found in your All right, I was there. Are you satisfied? Not quite. This J. Burns, Mrs. Williams, Yes. Have you been in No, no. How long seen you've seen or Well, I don't know, You bet, she doesn't remember. Because there isn't any Jack That was an alias And it was Torrence that night after your to kill your husband Not true, it's not true. I have bad news, Mrs. Williams. I can prove it's true. These pajamas, these letters, you identified for the court which is full of the clothes of Mr. James Torrence. And the suitcase was found in Hotel where it's been And it says on his tag, in large print: That is all, Mrs. Williams. Just a moment, Mrs. Williams. Your honor in view presented, we now ask for a against Walter Williams. And we intend to charge Irene to commit murder against Oh no. The case against Walter Court adjourned until 2:00. Well, that's that, Walt. Congratulations, Mr. Williams. I haven't the words But we, we could never Ah, sure you could. You know, son, right always wins especially when like this one to do the push. Well, I'll be seeing you. You know, it will to be able to eat and getting in your Oh, fine, Walt. We're looking forward to having The Denver plants are You think you could How about it, counselor? You bet you can. Oh, good. Well, I'll be running along. Well, do you think It's OK by me, boss. Yes, impact the force with which sometimes for evil,