Olive oil is not fine wine. Olive oil is a principal three ingredients you use It's olive oil. It's There's no luxury onion There's no luxury garlic And there really shouldn't Meet Andrew Benin, an olive oil startup Rather than use the vintage label aesthetic, green plastic squeeze cartoons on the label. But despite its product's garnered rave reviews from alike. We believe that punch, a kick, and kind of and better taste damn good. My name is Andrew Benin, company, Graza, is than $48 million this year. After graduating with a Binghamton University in variety of successful like Warby Parker and finding his niche. It wasn't until a trip to that inspiration struck. My wife is from Spain and we family, and I had a sensory specific olive oil. After that moment, it was Andrew found that olive oil bigger flavor than what he in the US. The quality of It didn't have a chance to It didn't have a chance to else. It didn't have a two years and then sold and It was just fresh from the Andrew went on an olive oil eventually bringing several He took them to Chef Michelin-starred restaurant once worked. When you're Michelin star restaurant, a to build up where you're notch stuff. And a luxury And Mike was able to temper this stuff is great. This oil is amazing. Now your job is to make it as you can. With that about building what would the Spanish village his olive oil tour. He partnered up with an who became his co-founder All they needed now was a More specifically, they We worked with Picual, a mostly found in Spain. We wanted that flavor, we wanted the oxidative important if you're going Working with one specific easy or less expensive. In a commodity market, your sourcing the commodity. Our goal was to do different, which was we olive oil, and we only want very specific reasons. Reason number one was we Andrew says he had the place where many great The moment was showering, a Bronner's bottle. They're this Castile soap milliliter behemoth of a wash off because it's so And probably that extra like, &quot;That's it! This is the form factor.&quot; Graza developed two basic Drizzle is a finishing oil. Use it as a salad dressing. Use it raw, we like to say. Sizzle is our other Sizzle's for sizzling. You can think of it, it's But before he could start needed to sell investors on And we got a lot of no's And usually one of those oversaturated marketplace. Andrew raised $230,000 in year. Meanwhile, the Graza oil to online influencers, the product. Our strategy, at the beginning, was get world. Get other people No one's going to listen to We have no credibility. We're in zero retail So we used the power of Graza's website went live in Launch day was incredible. I think we did $100,000 in I mean, we were sold out We had raised enough money operating with this amount gone. Whole Foods reached In our industry, getting displaying success at Whole the snowball effect. It's kind of the if you can do it anywhere. Since that skyrocketed from $4.4 million in 2023. The business is projecting the end of 2024. Graza is currently sold in stores across the country. Scheduled expansions in up to 18,500. Andrew puts much of Graza's reviews. I mean, we had Bon business, and we had Food business, and it was like the best roller imagine being on. Also presence on social media We do send product for free to garner an audience. Some people might get upset wouldn't you do that if you You got someone with a not going to give them a the outsized return on that brand. So we do that. We do it proudly. But he growth is helped by its moderate pricing. Sizzle website, while Drizzle Some people will buy Drizzle 20 bucks. Some people will cheaper, and that's what This model helped us possible. Graza also offers customers can receive oils for 10% off. But Andrew admits selling olive oil is expensive, to sourcing and purchasing We're working with probably very frequently we're production. We're buying, olive oil from one farm, lot, and then bottling, for that. And that hasn't It's actually gotten harder Graza has raised about $10 started, almost all of inventory. Andrew says the and meet customer demand on at least one occasion. In April 2023, Andrew accusing another olive oil copycat culture when that bottle for its pizza oil. Biggest failure was letting me. My emotions, when positive way, can do a lot let them manifest in a outsized harm. So I tread thoughts that are rooted in lightly in what is the because once you put definitely lose control. But despite some stumbling grow, introducing a few new olive oil, potato chips and company Aura Bora on a In May 2024, the company recyclable olive oil bottles sold in yet another can. We thought of the Beer one-to-one refill for our which are 750ml, and then a which is 500ml. On our website, we sell comes with two squeeze funnel that we worked with Despite these innovations, Graza is going to focus on There's a lot of pride in There's a lot of value in There's a lot of focus in we're benefiting from Graza's, an olive oil olive oil company. We're scale now. Sustaining that is a I had 300 business ideas think that I tried to start This is the one that I