Transcriber: Nika Kotnik Thank you. What do you eat? No, what do you really eat? It's a Wednesday night, by the time you get out of here, You stop at the store on the way home But, is it organic? Is it local? (Laughter) I get it. It is overwhelming, All of the things we're asked A little over two years ago, one year without processed food. The first questions you might ask are, and &quot;What makes a food processed?&quot; And I'll get to those. But tonight, I want to focus when you're wondering what to eat. I am a food writer, so on some level, - I'm the editor of Edible Baja Arizona, a local food magazine but I also happen to believe that they impact the food system, and we have the power So what makes a food processed? Of course, all foods are processed. Agriculture is a kind of process, so is All foods are processed But increasingly, they are not. Study after study has shown than how we're eating it. Think about the difference versus corn chips Same source, three very different foods I spent a lot of time over the many things that we find But for me, what is processed, from of all people, &quot;There is a difference between things There is a difference or could bake, and foods People can make corn into corn tortillas. People can't really make without access to a laboratory I spent a year thinking about but tonight I want to focus The first is the process of how a food How vegetables get from the ground, to a grocery store in Arizona. The second process is what happens to you How your body responds when you drink a glass of apple juice The third process it is the process of how the foods Often this process revolves And it is this last one, that I find the most potential How does a food get This is the Mariposa Port of Entry It is the largest inland In the winter, 70% of produce comes from Mexico, I like to say that it is the Ellis island A watermelon. How does a watermelon to a Safeway in Tucson? It starts on a farm, a really big farm, A migrating field crew goes in there they pack them up, 40,000 pounds of vegetables, There's a flurry of paperwork, and finally, it arrives here There are about 100 of them there, and I spent a few days And let me tell you, At this particular warehouse, every single day, they might move I remember standing and it being inconceivable to me, how this mass of fruit one mango in one person's kitchen. The system is vast. And its survival depends on pesticides, Compare that to this. This is what I eat. This is one week share the community supported This produce comes from a farm Yes, we call him farmer Frank. Farmer Frank sends they harvest enough produce wash it, put it on a truck, There's not a lot of storage, According to a study by USDA, is still contaminated with pesticides, If that's not processed, what is? You have these two watermelons, What makes one Well, the first difference Conventionally versus organically, on a monoculture And the second is the process On average, 91 cents goes to the middleman. It doesn't go to the people So, when you buy food that's gone you are supporting that 91 cents. On the other hand, when you buy food you are helping to ensure get more than 9 cents on every dollar. Let's go to the second process. Once that food has gotten to you, what happens to your body Sugar is a good example is less important than the how. A lot of people ask me, And the answer to that question is sugar. Sugar is in everything. Before I go there, I have such a voracious sweet tooth, my mom instituted a rule on which I was allowed one sweet everyday instead of all the sweets, all the days. But sugar is in everything, It is in, for example, The spinach of breakfast confections. This particular brand of mustard and a little high fructose corn syrup Grape-Nuts, a seemingly has four different kinds of sugar And that's what makes sugar so tricky. It comes in so many different forms But what's important to know, sugar is sugar. All sugar molecules, no matter the type, are eventually digested What matters to your body instead How much sugar you eat and how quickly it arrives Think about the difference between eating an apple In the apple, you have to work you have to bite it, chew it, swallow it, so it trickles into your body slower. Apple juice, on the other hand, And that immediacy stresses your body out. But the problem with sugar is We all really like it. It pulls our triggers in ways And food companies know that, Unfortunately, there has been that says sugar is simply not good for us. What do we do? What is the alternative? One alternative is to eat less sugar, the other alternative Diet desserts. The way that food companies is they process out the sugar and fat so that your body thinks that you're still getting your dessert. But anyone who's ever been on a diet, Eat one brownie made with Splenda before you really feel full. Compare that to the sweets I ate Home-made chocolate made with raw honey. Cookies made with wholegrain flour, These sweets satisfy and because they were all bound up that sugar trickled into my body slower. A lot of people ask when I tell them &quot;How do you feel? And the easiest answer For me, this is no small thing. I have dieted on and off my whole life: I've counted calories, really, I've been through the wringer. But unprocess is not a diet. When I eat unprocessed, I eat when I'm hungry, During my year, but I ate a lot of delicious food. If there is one take away from sugar, it is that if you're going to eat Savor it. Make it your one sweet a day. Don't waste your sugar on mustard. (Laughter) Let's move on to that last process. How do the foods we buy Let's go back to tonight. Wednesday night, Most of us assume if we want we need to spend more money, When I started my year un-processed, earning a graduate student salary I lived in this tiny little apartment without enough shade Throughout my year, I saved every grocery receipt and at the end of the year, The grand total, the amount I spent was about 4,900 dollars. What that means is the amount three, mostly organic, largely local, was about 4 dollars 50 cents a meal. I am aware that there are people is simply unaffordable. It is out of their reach. I'm really interested in that, to the endeavor of eating unprocessed on the amount of money which is about 20 dollars a week. But the fact of the matter is most of us have a few dollars This is the hide of a sheep that I spent two days using nothing Before I'll go there, I will say (Laughter) I've been a vegetarian problem always being, But I read what we have read: to the environment, water, How can I eat meat I spent two days And, here's the surprise: Instead, it made me so grateful, and pay to a local rancher with the same reverence respect I could pay money Indeed, if there is one takeaway it is simply that the money I'm not saying and grind our own grains, What I'm saying you realize it is so worth the money who's doing it well. According to a study if everyone in a community shifted 10% of their spending together we would create 140 million dollars Spending money locally Spend 100 dollars at Tucson's Food Co-op, and 73 dollars Spend 100 dollars at Safeway, The importance of the money is also that we are withholding it from the balance sheets who are then, using it, to grow unsustainable food, In short, to process and sell us foods But apart from all that, the reason for eating unprocessed I don't have to worry about because I know where is coming from. I don't have to worry what is doing I don't have to worry about because I know who's getting my money. It's one rule, and then I can do what I've always wanted to do After all, the point of food it is to bring us together. We have the power Of course, we don't do anything. You do things, and I do things. You go home to make dinner, It's only when you and I decide that big change begins to happen. Join the CSA, read ingredients labels, ask questions of the people and companies What do you eat? That's up to you. But you have the power Thank you. (Applause)