(upbeat music) (upbeat music continues) - Today we're gonna talk about a better way to Now, there's two schools to making delicious cold coffee drinks. There's cold brew, that's with cold or room temperature water, and then there is coffee that's brewed hot and chilled and diluted by ice. And that's what this is gonna be. That's iced filter coffee. And I've made a video a video using a pour-over And I think I used the pour-over because iced filter coffee They've got big batch brewers. That was how the technique Now, there is obviously, This might be a better It is, I'll say now, a little bit slower. What I'll do is I'll walk you through some of the experiments I did to Then I'll go into the recipe itself, walk you through step by step, and then to finish up, of different tips and when using different immersion brewers. It's kind of embarrassing to me that I didn't think of this video sooner. It's actually a really But I also think about the fact that over these last few years, and we've learned some And I kind of wanna highlight the moments of learning for me that And this all should have started with a video I made awhile back called &quot;Immersion Brewing is Better Than Percolation Brewing.&quot; Now, iced filter coffee has Because we're gonna dilute it we're gonna use less water Water, when we brew, is kind of a solvent and when we have less solvent, it's harder to dissolve the When we compared percolation brewing and immersion brewing, especially at finer grind settings, we saw immersion did a of extracting the coffee When you get really fine and you're trying to pass it's more likely to channel of quick routes through that over extract while everything else It tastes uneven, sour and It's not ideal. That typically doesn't And that was where I thought, &quot;Oh, this is gonna be the solution to the problem of iced filter coffee.&quot; But then I started to experiment some more and it takes me to another video. We did one called where we experimented with and tried to get to an and one of them was steep time. Now, I said in that video that my four-minute steep than my two-minute steep, and I didn't think it was good enough to justify the additional time. I wanted lots of people as a daily driver recipe. But Jonathan Gagne picked on that. He is a noted coffee author of &quot;The Physics of Filter Coffee,&quot; excellent, linked down below. You should check it out. He said, &quot;Well, hang on a second. If four minutes was better than two, well, what about six, eight and 10?&quot; Then he developed the AeroPress technique, now known as the Gagnepress where you steep your The results are very delicious. Now, I'm not saying you have What I am saying though a longer steep to get a better extraction, there's no kind of stress about If you miss this by a minute, you're good. If you miss it by three This is a very tolerant technique, especially when it comes to time. As long as you cross a to five minutes, somewhere there, depending on whether it's a light roast or a dark roast, you're gonna be fine. And that made me think of something else. If my brew time is longer, is So I did some simple comparisons. I brewed a pour-over and of the liquid coming out the of short iced pour-over style seven-minute steep time in And yeah, the liquid coming out that would be hitting the I mean, a few degrees Celsius, Why would you care about this? Well, the cooler the liquid is, the less ice you're gonna And the less ice you need, the more you can turn You can sort of trade and that will help with The one other video I wanna in the past that I realized was a video called &quot;The For most people, adding a tiny amount of salt to coffee decreases Now, often this is a great trick when you're served really terrible coffee but cold coffee has a higher and I realized that saline, It's really easy to make up. You can buy a cheap dropper like this. You're looking at an 80:20 ratio, so you could do say five grams dissolve it and here, we're maybe four drops depending and how bitter the coffee What we're gonna end up with is this, a coffee full of complexity and we did a good job with the extraction but it is cool and One other quick note. I would recommend lighter, because they do so well as iced filter coffee, washed Ethiopian coffees in particular. Very, very delicious, though pretty much any and this it should be full Should be a good time. Ah. Perfect. Start the day on a hot, sunny day, a refreshing drink halfway through or a little pick-me-up Speaking of which, it's time now for an ad for this video's sponsor, CoPilot is a fitness app with an online personal trainer. And over the last four months, when it comes to working towards my goals, it's been incredibly helpful. Now, I'm not trying to run a marathon. My goals are around and really enjoyable part of my life, and CoPilot has helped in three main ways. One, accountability. Having someone I'm accountable to, someone motivating me Two, flexibility. My schedule changes all the time and I'm not stuck working they just work around mine. And three, personalization. You start with a call with your trainer and you talk through the kind of exercise you wanna do, talk about the kind of and they build out a You get to the gym, you don't have to think about There's no analysis paralysis. Secondly, if you're traveling or doing something Drop them a message and you Three, personally, over time, I've wanted to add in not just resistance work, a little bit more steady state cardio. I just drop my trainer of workouts I want, and It's been really enjoyable And if you wanna try CoPilot, in the description down on screen and you can get 14 days free to trial having your own expert Thanks to CoPilot for Let's get into the recipe. We're gonna start with and this is where things get, for me, a little bit tricky to explain. I'm gonna talk about brewing water as kind of the defining about a dose of coffee per and if you're brewing a pour-over, you might use 60 grams per liter of water. So if you brew half a In case the maths is still we'll leave some example recipes of coffee, two, three, four, and hopefully get a bit This would brew what I of coffee for people. We're gonna do that, but we're of brewing water up into but we're gonna change our We're not gonna use 30 grams, which calculates out There's two reasons for this. One, I want a slightly for any dilution that happens in the glass while I'm drinking it. And two, technical, and I'll link a video that explains this, but immersion brews produce, slightly weaker coffee and so we need to compensate for that too. As for the grind size itself, It's not espresso fine. What I'll do is I'll this grind setting and then let's say a two-cup So it's probably a little bit closer to the pour-over than it is to espresso but it is a notably finer grind setting because we can use that with an immersion brew without Now, we're gonna use the Clever We'll talk about different techniques and switch arounds with that. The Clever is a great immersion brewer. It's one of my favorites. It's got a great deal of capacity, It's easy to use and it's inexpensive. It does benefit from putting Not all immersion brew I'll touch on it in a second, but that's what we're gonna do here. Now our brew water. We're gonna carve it up 2/3 hot, 1/3 cold. With 500 grams of water, that's not the neatest thing in the world, so we'll call it about and then we'll have about 170 grams of ice in this particular case. You could go up or down five grams. Nothing bad is going to happen. You know, you can kind with these measurements. It's okay, but approximately You can obviously preheat your brewer. That's helpful because as you can, get as much I'm gonna put 330 grams in here. (Weber catch cup clinking) You can obviously use a teaspoon to mix. If you happen to have a these are great. But for this, let me be just kind of useful. I'm gonna ask you to steep If you really can't If you miss that, if you go it's gonna be okay. It is still going to be very delicious, so don't worry about that. Pro tip, do not get your ice out until you actually need it. That means kind of when go and get some ice at that point, just so the ice is as cold as possible and not gently melting in your carafe while it's waiting for (coffee pouring) (coffee pouring) Again, it's a little slow. Patience is required. I promise, it will be rewarded. There will be some ice left. Do give it a stir. (ice clinking) Probably using the wrong spoon for this. Hang on, something a bit more appropriate just to make sure we chill And when pretty much all the Don't forget your saline, two, three drops is plenty. If you've got fancy ice, feel free to ice your (coffee pouring) And you will have a (ice clinking) Mmh! Tastes like Kenyan Coffee, which it is, juicy, fruity, nice kind little acidity, lovely That's a very enjoyable if you're willing to invest a little bit in terms of time. I did say I'd touch on some and it seems worth mentioning a few bits and pieces about them. So first up is the Hario Switch. It's another steep and release brewer. It's one I really like. Obviously, it's a kind as opposed to the Melitta Its capacity is a little bit smaller. At these higher ratios, I've had some success up to which would then mean 260 grams of water and 140 grams of ice in there as well. The good thing about this is there's loads of paper options available. You can get fast-flowing papers, slower-flowing papers It means with say, a fast-flowing paper, you could do coffee first, water second, but in every other situation, coffee second is generally my preference but it's a super versatile for making this kind of coffee with. Next up, the AeroPress. I know some people don't see because you are pressing water but because so much of the of immersion conditions, I This is great. Obviously, the capacity, but there is the new AeroPress XL. This is sort of comically large. We're still testing and This we've had success to about 440 grams of water with 220 grams of ice down below. Hopefully these ratios are now But yeah, this has been bigger than anything You might think that this to a really big brew but there's a downside when Cafetieres, French presses, are great. You know I love them. I think they make but when it comes to iced filtered coffee, they have a significant downside. They're metal filtered coffee, of suspended material, of coffee floating around in the beverage. And while my recommended technique reduces that quite dramatically, It's kind of unfiltered coffee, and when you chill coffee down, you experience a lot more bitterness from those little tiny pieces. If you're absolutely in a kind of pinch and you have to use this, on the saline. You can filter a French press brew but I really don't recommend it. It'll be very slow and very frustrating. You pour this through a V60 filter, it'll just clog and choke You can get good results I really like cloth brewers but there's so much work keep it tasting good and clean and fresh that I don't really recommend it. So the coffee from this is to a chilled finished drink, I think you do need ideally just to minimize the bitterness, give you a bit more clarity. I think it makes And so whatever the weather, at home, I hope you give And if you do, well, let me and let me know if you think I've missed out that should have been included here, whether there's some tips or with your infusion brewing at home. We'd love to hear from you. Thank you again to CoPilot The link's in the description, the QR code's on screen right now. But for now, I wanna say and I hope you have a great day.