The first match of the competition: Ghost Jianchou Wang Suozhu vs. Iron Zen Staff Zeruda Good, good, good, good, good, good Ghost Jianchan, I'm here to meet you, I said fat man, you don't chant sutras in the temple, what are you doing here? Stop talking nonsense. I said I want you to see how powerful I am. This one doesn't work. I'm stupider than you. You can't even stand. Come on, go on. Go on, go on , go on. Go on, go on. I want to enter this place without buying a ticket. Sir, I am rich. I donated all my money to save the country. Tell me to go in. I have to pay. If you don't have money , get out of here . Look, this arena is right in front of my house . Can't I just go in? Now, you are on the Kang of your home. You have to fight the first match. The ghost is worried. Wang Suozhu wins. Okay, okay, okay, look at what you are doing. My daughter is here. I tell you, my daughter is long. She's very cool. Do you know? If she comes over, you tell her that she never saw me. Do you know where your daughter is? Look at you, isn't that where she is? Fourth master, fourth master, fourth master, you can't hit anyone. How can I not slap you in the face? Why did I tell you? I hit you every time I see you. How come I can still see you wherever you are? Aren't you just here to see you? Look at you, you old bastard. Dahu, why are you here? I want to say a few words to you. You said you wanted to invite the Wind Sword, Guan Chong , so that you could invite his opponent, the lock post of the Jeju Lancet. I beg you, don't follow me. Brother, can you compete in martial arts? I, Yang Dahu, never treat my friends badly. As long as you agree, you won't compete with me in martial arts. From today on, no matter when you come to your place to eat or drink, I'll cover it all. How about I just drink that mutton soup and beef? That big tiger, what are you talking about? This is not about eating and drinking. I came here just to compete with him. I want to win. I am the best swordsman in the world . Besides, if I win this arena match, it will be enough for me to live for three people. Yue's is, um, Suo Zhu is here, that big tiger is here, I won't tell you anymore, you go back and tell Liang Yongsheng that I am here to win him, let him be careful, yes, that Suo Zhu is OK Okay, okay, go back, go back, go back, no, my brother, go back , lock, lock, lock the pillar, okay, okay, okay, this skill is not bad, okay, okay, good brother, is it okay? The county magistrate is okay, it's okay, It's okay. It's okay. It's okay. It's okay. It's good to chase the wind and rush through the sword. It's good to win . It's good. Get out of the way. Get out of the way. Get out of the way. Who's coming? Go away, don't have eyes? Don't worry about this guy. I'm looking for Liang Yongsheng. Where are you looking here? Follow my hand. Brother, what are the Japanese gesticulating? He said he is two hundred and five. Do n't make trouble with him. What on earth is he saying? He just wants to remind me that I haven't finished fighting him yet. Why is this guy so lazy when I still have to fight him? I 've invited his opponent Lightning Knife, Mr. Yunzhonglong County Chief, to have tea. You're welcome . Okay. , Good Silver Spear Little Overlord wins, good, good, please invite Ghost Hand Judge Bi, a handful of hair known as Jianghu people, please invite his opponent, Liaobei Whip King appears , good Liaobei Whip King, win well, please invite Zhongyuan Yang Yidao , Okay, Hao Cheng lets you not be good at learning, bid farewell to Wang Suozhu, fellow villagers, on behalf of the county magistrate, I will announce that today's game is over and the game will continue tomorrow. Okay, let's go, let's go, let's just say it. Now I'll announce, The game has begun. Good, good, good, Silver Gun Bully. I'm here to challenge you. Good, good, good fight. Silver Gun Bully wins. Good, good, good, good fight. Good, good fight, good fight. Which one? Why didn't I see that thing about you? I only care about tea and don't know what ghosts are worried about. Well, hello, fellow villagers, young and old. After these few days of competition, our top three have come out. They are chasing after them. Good job at Fengdao Pass, good, good, Silver Spear, Little Bully, Guijianchou , Brother Wang Suozhu, you really have two brushes. You guessed it right about these three people. Tomorrow is the last day of the competition. These three heroes will fight against Ningjin's No. 1 in the world. Liang Yongsheng is good, good, good. All young and old men, please don't miss it. Let's go, let's go, let's go. My legs are numb. Let's go. Liang Yongsheng. I have already watched the entire competition between Ghost Seeing Sorrow and Chai Feng Dao. If nothing happens to your opponent, you will be the final winner. On the third day after you finish the competition, I hope to have another fight with you in Huangjia Town. Of course, if you are afraid of losing to me or are timid, you can do that. If you refuse to accept the challenge, I will promise you. On the third day after the competition, we met in Huangjiazhen and we made a promise. You have a spirit in heaven to bless Brother Yongsheng. Tomorrow is a safe and peaceful Yongsheng. Tomorrow, you only remember one word when you go on stage. Hurry up and practice again today. Don't use these two moves tomorrow unless absolutely necessary. Why don't you use them? Nakata Shinba will watch the whole battle tomorrow. You asked him to fight again in Huangjiazhen in three days. You have to be careful and know yourself and the enemy. Only then can you win every battle. We can't let him reveal the details. It's all clear now that it's getting late, take the time to rest , go, okay, okay, now I'm going to announce the final challenge of the martial arts tournament and the horse racing will start soon. Please invite the county magistrate to speak. Okay, okay, okay. First of all, I would like to thank Jia Yonggui for the discussion. Okay , okay. , Good Suozhu. That Suozhu is my brother Suozhu. Come on, Dahu, why are you here again? There are ten dollars in it. I have saved it for several years to prepare for a wife. Now I give it all to you. Think of it as a bonus. Don't compete with my brother, I'm gone. Dahu will take my king, Suozhu, and live an upright life. If I lose, I will admit this Liang Yongsheng. If he loses, he doesn't deserve to be called the best swordsman in the world. It's rude, isn't it? Suozhu, I still have it. By the way, I'm not leaving. I'm okay, okay, okay. Why didn't Mr. Wang come to deliver food today? I'm not the protagonist today. Everyone is eagerly waiting to see the last sentence of the game. I represent the fathers and mothers of Ningjin and give us the national hero of Ningjin. Liang Yongsheng cheers up. Liang Yongsheng, today's competition in the ring is about making friends with martial arts. We will see the difference on the sword. Whether the title of the best swordsman in the world can stay with us in Ningjin is all up to you. Okay, brother. , Okay, okay, good brother, look, it's so lively, you know it's good to watch the fun , the lion dance in Haoleling is so good, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, here, here, Daxia Liang, what are you doing here when I'm here? You're here to cheer us up. We're all in the same group. If you have anything to do, just tell me no, no, no, what can you do without your bear likeness? Get out of here, Master Liang. Master Liang, look at you, you're such a bear, you're such a tortoise , If you touch me again, I, I will kill you. Okay, okay, okay. What are you doing? It's okay. Now I announce that the first match will start immediately. The fierce tiger sword Liang Yongsheng will fight against the ghost king Suozhu. Good, good, good Liang. Yongsheng Hebei Wuqiao Wang Suozhu came here specifically to ask Brother Liang for mercy. If he offends, get out of the way. Okay, good, good. He didn't use all his strength. It's really good. Anyone who dares to use a short sword must be faster than ordinary people. You can only take advantage of it if you are faster than him. Okay, Okay, brother, okay, okay, brother, brother's sword is so fast, Brother Liang's sword is faster, but his skills are not as good as others, I bow down to Feng Cheng, and say goodbye. Now I announce the victory of the first game with the tiger sword, Liang Yongsheng. Good, good, good brother, wipe it. Brother Khan, Uncle Drinking Water , how's my fight? It's okay. The next game is Yongsheng. Do you remember what I told you last night? It seems to be slow but fast. I'm going to focus on the last inch. I'm announcing the second game. The competition is between Tiger Blade Liang Yongsheng and Silver Spear Little Bully. Be careful, brother, come on, brother, good, good, good. You guys call a few people from our village to go into the crowd and keep an eye on those unfamiliar faces. The evil actions are different. Keep an eye on those who are hiding and tucking them in. Don't let them do anything. It's nice to look at. I'm not a thief. Okay, okay, okay, okay, it's easy to handle. Do n't stare at me. Listen to me. Just now, I saw a person over there. Don't touch his clothes . It's not over, isn't it? What are you doing? You naughty kid, why are you big or small? If you come back, I'll do it. You're kind enough to treat it like a donkey's liver and lungs. Okay, I don't care about this. The one who suffers the loss depends on who is using the gun. Let go first and then When the knife is pulled out, it seems to be slow, but the last inch suddenly exerts force. Good, good, good, good, good. This Miao knife is really fast. This Miao knife is good, good, good, good, good. Good, good, good, good. Well played, well played, good. In the second game, Tiger Blade Liang Yongsheng won. Good, good, good. Yongsheng Guan Chong was indeed scheduled to play at the end. Now you can only rely on yourself to adapt to the situation. You shameless old man, I call you. Steal, I told you to steal. Thief, thief, you are such a shameless thief. How dare you steal? I told you to steal. I told you to steal. You, shameless old man, I told you to steal and kick him to death. Senator Jia, this is What's going on? Someone put his hand into someone else's pocket and took a cup. I'll smash you to death. What are you causing trouble? You're watching something all day long. I 'm sick. Now I announce that the third game will start immediately. Tiger Dao Liang Yongsheng will fight against Zhui Feng. Good sword attack , good, good Liang Yongsheng, come and see how I killed you today. Well, I'll also see how you killed me . Come on, come on. Oh no, Yongsheng's physical strength is more exhausted than I expected. Is this also a good thing to do for me? The only difficulty is your physical strength. If he is the first to attack , you should be able to defeat him within thirty moves. If he is the last to attack, you may have some trouble in the end. If you risk your own life, you can only survive if you are more ruthless than your opponent. Good, good, good, good, good, good, good, good, good, good, good, good, good, good, good, good, good, good, good, good, good, good, good, good, good, good, good, good, good, good, good, Liang Yongsheng, it is really not easy, fellow villagers Dear young and old, fellow villagers, after three rounds of intense and fierce competitions, our national hero from Ningjin used his superb sword skills to defend the title of the best swordsman in the world. Now I announce that the champion of this martial arts competition is our Ningjin's best swordsman in the world. Yi Dao Liang Yongsheng is good, good, good, good, good brother catches his brother, brother said, who sent you here, brother, brother, what's wrong with you, brother, Yongsheng is fine, he just passed out and looked at him, Mr. Huang woke up Wake up, it hurts, it hurts, the pain has not hurt the vital part, hurry up, carry it to stop the bleeding, brother, wake up, wake up, brother, wake up, brother, it hurts, sir, Mr. Jia, this, this, the county magistrate, this is not safe, get out of the way as soon as possible, I'm so staring at the white-eyed wolf that I can't let go. It's the white-eyed wolf who did it. White-eyed wolf, don't go back. Back up. Back up. Back up. Back away. Everyone, fellow citizens, fellow citizens, listen to me. Go back, go back. Go back. Back up and go away, what are you doing? You can't let yourself go. Dear fellow villagers, things happened suddenly. Please avoid the county magistrate. Some things are easy to say. Someone is causing trouble, and the murderer will be punished severely. Whoever caused trouble is the only one who can tell you. Counselor Jia, there is such a big mess today, Liang Yongsheng. , Huang Shansheng's life or death is uncertain, there must be an explanation. What do you mean, who will explain it? Who did you say will explain it ? I don't know. When the competition was set up, you made it very clear that Liang Yongsheng entered the competition. You are responsible for safety. Now something like this has happened. If you don't explain the big things, who will? Mr. Men, fellow villagers, I never expected that such a thing would happen. How should I explain it? Maybe Liang Yongsheng has become enemies with someone, right? If you do this, are you bullying me? Ah, are you bullying me? Councilor Jia, who dares to bully me? I just laid things out like this. What should we do? We have to ask the county magistrate , Mr. Ming Duanmen. The magistrate can't tell you. Lord magistrate, go ahead and punish the perpetrators severely. Punish the criminals severely, punish the criminals severely, punish the criminals severely, please Mr. Liang Yongsheng, Huang Shanren must do his best to treat him, all expenses will be borne by the county. Please rest assured, the county magistrate cannot let him go, cannot let him go, cannot let him go, cannot let him go, Don't let him go, don't let him go. Folks, folks, I told you that such a bad incident today was accidental. Please rest assured that this county will definitely order a thorough investigation of the truth. Liang Yongsheng is our great hero Huang Shanren in Ningjin. He is a model who is enthusiastic about serving the people. The murderer who attacked them must be caught and they will be severely punished. County Magistrate Jia Yonggui Sir, next, what do you think you should do, Lord County Magistrate, I didn't expect such a thing to happen. I didn't expect what you said about the safety of the ring and Liang Yongsheng's safety. How do you ask this county to explain to the villagers? Mr. County Chief, this happened so suddenly. I won't talk about this. Folks, I gave Jia Yonggui three days. If the murderer cannot be found within three days, I will ask Jia Yonggui for three days. , Just three days , okay, okay, okay, okay, stop, Dahu, be careful, he has a gun in his hand, brother, wake up, wake up, eternal life, my brother is awake, my brother is awake, father, my brother is awake, eternal life Why am I lying here? Yongsheng, Brother Yongsheng, where did someone shoot just now ? Why doesn't it hurt? Are you okay? Where is Mr. Huang Dashan lying ? Where is my knife? Where is my knife? Eternal life here. How does it feel? Eternal life, how it feels. Why are you feeling dizzy ? Is it okay? I want to vomit. Yes, someone has drugged the tea of Shengsheng. He has drugged me . Go, stop, run. Help me, Dahu, you two. If you really want to kill me, why should I kill you first ? Brother, there is no need to interrogate this old guy. He has already admitted that he was the one who drugged me. I ask you, why did you drug him to harm me ? Mr. Liang, spare your life. I want to ask you something. Cry, cry, cry. Tell me, why did you harm my brother? Is it the Fourth Master ? It's the Fourth Master. It's the Fourth Scar. He asked me to give medicine to Daxia Liang. I was afraid. He said the medicine was not poisonous and would not kill anyone. I tried it myself last night and it was confirmed that the medicine would not kill the person, but he would be sleepy for an hour. Then he continued. No, no brother, tell me what you want me to do with this old Dongyou. Let him go. Okay, let his brother go. He almost killed you. We can't let him be so easy. We have no grievances with him. He can. Are you hurting me? He must have something behind him. Tell me what's your problem? Get out of the way, get out of the way, get out of the way. Find the gunman quickly and wait for an opportunity to kill him. Now that he's alive, he's going to be a trouble in the future. Master, take a look. Ah, I saw it and I did it. It was this boy who was shouting there just now. Now everyone in the town is staring at us. What if they see it? The mouth is under your nose. If they see it, they will say It was the murderer who resisted. He was shot dead on the spot. As soon as the gunman is dead, we can say whatever we want. Go quickly. It's you two. Keep up. In a moment, you two run forward. Don't look back. | Head, don't look back. If you don't hear me, run, run, We are selling snacks, snacks of all kinds, cigarettes, cigarettes, master, master, everything is done, what happened? There are too many people. I, master, what should I do? The most important thing now is to find the gunman who fired the gun. Why is there no blood? The door was closed inside. You go around that way and let's outflank our enemies. Go quickly, Dahu. If I were the gunman, you have seen it now. It's a pity that there is no one outside. Let's go. Get out of the way, get out of the way, get out of the way, get out of the way, get out of the way , on the ring, you really saw Liang Yongsheng dead, really, I saw him, he was just lying there, get out of the yellow Get out of Huangjia Town, get out of Huangjia Town, get out of Huangjia Town, get out of who? Give me a gun. I'm telling you, I see you, come out quickly, or else, I'll kill you with one shot. Ah Si'er, this is Huangjia Town, not Longtan Street . Don't cause trouble today. The master is gone. They hit me with garbage. The people named Jia are gone. Get out of Huangjia Town. People named Jia are out of Huangjia Town. The most important thing now is to find the gunman who fired the gun. You were just poisoned. I wasn't poisoned. Didn't the old man say that it was not poison? Then if he lied to you, brother, I saw the white-eyed wolf returning to Longtan Street. The old man did it to the little grandson. Are you back? I sent him back. Brother, brother, are you okay? Daxia Liang was not injured. But I fell on my back as soon as the gun went off. Come on, come here. What are you doing? Why are you with him? What happened to the lock post? It's my brother. He's the gunman he's chasing with me. Don't you think you're too stupid to kick him? He's competing with my brother in the ring. How's the competition going? I told you, if I have the ability, I'll come on stage too. Brother, the lock column said I said that the gunman may have been hired by someone. How do you know that the gunman was hired? I often travel around and know a few people who are involved in this business. They all have one thing in common : they collect money after killing people. Today's gunman was caught by Dahu. I probably haven't had time to collect the money after the chop. As long as we find the person who paid, we can find him. I know who asked him to do this. Get out of here. I have to do it today. You must get out. Get out and have the skills. Let's fight openly and openly. What kind of man are you? Get out of here, sir. Why don't I take people out and kill them now? Don't come over here. What are you doing? Don't go alone. Whoever dares to move like a dog and dance like a dog will not be able to see the sun tomorrow. Try, don't come over. I'm coming over. What's wrong? Do n't come over. I'm coming over. Not only do I dare to come over, I also dare to sit down. Sit down and look at the moon with me. Liang Daxia, I want to tell you something. Let 's go and stand still. Stop trembling. What's the matter? Why are you doing such a mysterious locking post? Why are you so worried? What kind of trick did you play? Mr. Liang offended me. Wang Suozhu just wanted to test how many moves you could take from me without a knife in your hand. I just counted you and received 18 moves from me. What kind of trick are you playing again, Mr. Liang? To be honest, you won in the ring today. I feel a little uncomfortable, so I decided to test it out with you. I didn't expect that you would take another eighteen moves from me without a knife in your hand. I am completely convinced now. Wang Suozhu is willing to bow. Liang Daxia is a master . You get up first. You, you, you get up first. You promise me first. No, you get up first. You don't agree. If I don't get up, I can't accept you as my apprentice. My master said, it's true that he won't accept you as his apprentice. Yes, I can't accept you. Do you really think I'm like that liar? Well, then I don't want the title of master and apprentice. Do I want the practice of master and apprentice? I said brother, with your skills, I can't be your master. Let's talk about it now. It's not like this when we are talking about this matter. We have found the gunman and dealt with the white-eyed wolf. Let's discuss this matter slowly, okay ? Then you can't trick me. I'm tricking you. Whatever you do, listen to me. Get up first. Get up just now. It really scares you. I thought I let you plot. I can't help it. If you don't want this arm to turn into a white bone, try moving it. I give in. I give in. I give in. Mr. Liang, I'm not shooting at you. Those are all Yang Kai's guns. I killed him. I 'm helping you. Why did you shoot to kill someone who told you to do it ? That gun god, I want to give you a way to survive. You can go to the government with me tomorrow. Just ask. If you tell me clearly who paid the money, I will spare your life, Baiyanlang. It was Baiyanlang, the mastermind, not you. The one you killed was the murderer. As long as you tell me clearly, you will not be punished. If you don't tell us, we will If I don't kill you, just continue to take the blame for White-eyed Wolf and live in Tibet. Let's go. Let's get rid of White-eyed Wolf first. Liang Daxia was stunned for a moment. Looking at Daxia Liang, I think this is too cheap. White-eyed Wolf. Why do you think so? Honestly. If our brothers go there, there will definitely be casualties. This is not the best result. So what do you think? Let 's move this gun master to a safe place first and report to the officials tomorrow morning and let them come and get him by themselves. None of you dare to challenge me. Too arrogant, steamed buns, newly baked steamed buns, steamed buns, stop, stop, stop, park, stop , why is my brother going to live forever ? What are you doing? Are you not a beater? What are you doing? Let's go together, what are you doing? It's up to you to control people, whether you beat me or not, go away and seek death, okay, good brother, good job , good, good, good, good, good, good job, good job , good job , good job, too good job. Okay, good fight, good job, good, good fight, great, good, good fight. What the hell are you going to do? Brother, you are so awesome. What are you going to do? After the fight, what else will Yongsheng do when you go home? If you're not this person, why did n't you tell me earlier? Get in the car. Go back to see the master and get in the car. Why do n't you draw the knife? You can't cut me. What are you doing with the knife? If I put the knife out, your head will be moved. If you draw the knife, you'll have to do it. Really? It's my uncle, I can come with you. Really, what if I really don't put the knife away? You can't stop the knife. Why did my master explain it to me and let me help you beat me? If you cut me down, who will help you? You kid? Who said I should just sit there stunned? Yongsheng, you are right as we sword practitioners, so true martial arts practitioners have to pull out their swords. The most taboo for martial arts practitioners is to be brave and ruthless, but to be unambiguous when it is time to take action. Okay, okay, Okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay. I heard that your injury is not healed yet. No need to worry about it. If you can't compare, you can continue to postpone it. Just say &quot; no need.&quot; My Wang's wound has not healed yet. According to the rules, I chose my apprentice. You can't compete on stage on my behalf. It must be you. Although you are my disciple competing, if you lose, I will bear the responsibility. How will you bear the competition? The stakes remain the same. If my disciple really loses, I will still offer you the Xinyou Sword Manual. I can't make an appointment in the ring. It has to be you, Mr. Nakata. Don't you dare? I said that I will defeat all Chinese swordsmen. Whoever comes, I will defeat him. It's a promise. Let's all be witnesses. Okay, okay, okay. , Good Liang Yongsheng, come up here. This is my apprentice. His name is Jianghu, Tiger Sword. Liang Yongsheng, let him compete for me. Yesterday, you injured Ping Gengjiro. I don't know his name. Anyway, if I defeat one, it 's you. That's it. Let's get started. The moves in the Xinyou Sword Recipe all start with dealing with the Japanese sword. As long as you make good use of the changes, you can deal with all sword techniques. The big split with the wind knife is to face the big split. Swing the hand horizontally and start blocking the waist. Follow the wind and sweep the autumn leaves. Sweep the enemy weighing thousands of pounds. Escape, step, pick up, lift like thunder, run wide, lift down, bevel left and right, use quick access to move, change shape, thrust out, bayonet, Chinese swordsmanship is broad and profound, there are endless changes, don't stick to fixed forms, you must understand them thoroughly, and you will continue to improve. Good, good, Good master, good, good, good. Good fighting. Good fighting. Good . Eternal life. Good. Good. Good. Good fighting. Good fighting. It's okay. I'm willing to admit defeat. Please admit defeat. Please keep the sword manual for me temporarily. But the new The sword skills of Akechi-ryu only belong to the new Akechi-ryu. In one month, I will find you to take back what belongs to us. Please practice your sword skills before you come. I know how to do it, but please don't be too proud. You are obviously holding a Miao sword. But I used Pu Dao's sword technique. You don't care what sword technique I use. I'll beat you. It's not in line with the rules of martial arts. Chinese martial arts never stick to fixed moves. Only by mastering it can we continue to improve. Do you understand? Let's go, okay. , good, good, good little Japanese tiger sword beam eternal life, tiger sword beam immortality tiger sword beam immortality, tiger sword beam immortality tiger sword beam immortality, tiger sword beam immortality tiger sword beam immortality, tiger sword beam immortality tiger sword beam immortality, tiger The tiger's sword will live forever, the tiger's sword will live forever, the tiger's sword will live forever, the tiger's sword will live forever, the tiger's sword will live forever, the tiger's sword will live forever, the tiger 's sword will live forever, the tiger's sword will live forever, the tiger's sword will live forever , Senior brother Yongsheng protects Yongsheng , go fast, go fast, brother Ishiguro, don't move, uncle, hurry up, let them stop shooting, don't hurt innocent people, you have to pay the price for your actions, I said, let your people stop shooting. Gun, otherwise I will kill you, kill me, and you won't survive. I have no intention of leaving alive this time. If you don't believe it, try it. If you don't believe it, try immortality. Come on, Uncle Master, where are you? Remember, the spirit of the Chinese people is that a man is as good as a knife. Don't throw it away. Do n't forget your uncle's hard work. Master, let's go, let's go. Mr. Wang, you can take your knife away. Don't wait for them to run away. You will hurt yourself. I want to see if you are the one who killed me. Liang Yongsheng , I should kill you first. Back off , get in the car, get in the car and put on clothes for him. Why change clothes? Why do you have so many clothes? Why do you just listen to me now? Jump out of the car later. Lie down on the side of the road and don't move. No matter what happens, wait for the car to rush by and someone will take you away. Do you understand? If I don't get out of the car, what they want to arrest is that I can't let you die for me. This is what my master told him to do. Now you are risking your life. Hand over Liang Yongsheng. Mr. Wang, I told you that you can't save Liang Yongsheng. I haven't turned over this chapter yet. It's still undecided who will lose and who will win. Battalion Commander, go quickly. We are guarding and driving. Rush over and there is a Jaap Haicheng behind you, tell Yongsheng to jump out of the car so that he can go away. What are you doing standing there in a daze? Go and kick him down. Go and rush over. Brother Yongsheng, let me just say a word. Although my surname is Jia, I am indistinguishable from Jia Yonggui in blood. But remember when your Yongsheng brother went to Longtan Street to take revenge. As long as you open your mouth, I, Jia Furen , want people and guns. I will do what I say. Let's make a deal. If you let Liang Yongsheng go, I won't kill you. I will let you go. If you have Liang Yongsheng, you will still kill me. Chinese people keep their word, unlike you. Japanese people only play dirty tricks. I don't believe you. You either let Liang Yongsheng go or we both die together. Let them put their guns down, don't shoot, put down their guns, and stand back. Let's go. I can only send you here. You drive this carriage all the way north. Don't look back. Tell my senior brother, Liang Yongsheng, that I will consider him a brother in this life. I'll see you later. Be careful along the way. Tell everyone to change clothes and return to Wuhan. Pick up Master at the gym. Master Mr. Wang has arrived at the door of your martial arts gym. You are now safe. You can let me go. Stop talking nonsense. Don't shoot. I want to be alive, you bastard. You little devils, come up here, Major Tax Police Corps. But the Major's people are here, you bastard Liang Yongsheng. He, that bastard Liang Yongsheng, has already run away. Escape there. Show me carefully. Don't let a corner fall . Knock on the door. Go in, go in, go in quickly, go in quickly. Close the door, close the door. Brother, this is my aunt. This yard is his uncle. Please excuse me. I'll come back and tell you. Scary Fourth is leading people to check one street after another. They are checking very carefully. Every house has to come in to check. How about it, Fourth Master? There is no fourth brother there without you. You see, today is your big day. If we don't go back, it will be too late. This is the only street left. Are you still checking? Check, check, you are not allowed to peel off our skins. You are really checking? You are still checked? If you are really checking, I will peel your skin off first. Your eyes will be wide open. Hey, it's a good evening for a wedding banquet. Open the door. Open the door quickly. The door is coming. Come on. Come on. Come on. Come on. What are you doing? No, no, no, no. Fourth master, take a look at what you are doing. What if something goes wrong? What's the right thing to do? Bullets have no eyes. Okay, okay, put down your guns. What are you doing? This is, hurry up, my mother, Fourth Master, are you okay? I'll come and check your yard. Why? This is my private house. My private house is to keep you safe. I have to see if there are any outsiders sneaking into Longtan Street. Everyone has asked for inspections. Your house doesn't allow inspections, so just check it, right? Don't rummage through my things. Look at what you have in my house. I can still like your things. Well, then let's rummage. Let's rummage. Brothers, do your rummaging carefully and don't let others rummage through it. , It's okay, it's okay. It seems that someone went out first. Brother Si, there is 80% movement in the house. It's right inside. Si, go, you, you trash, really, where are you running? Grab it, where are you running? Run away. Do n't run, don't run, don't run, you bastard, I'll go, I'll kill you, go, go, go, bastard, what are you doing when I'm here? I, I'll catch the chicken , I'll kill you, you chicken Okay, okay, it scared me to death. I also said that your chickens are raised like this. Xiehu, that's okay. It's okay. I'm leaving in the evening. Remember to come for a wedding drink. Walk well. Walk away. Fourth Master, walk slowly. Tiger, come out. It's okay. Come out. It's okay. Fortunately, there is this secret cave. Big tiger, are you scared? Cuihua, look, I'm looking for you all over the world. You are hiding in this big market in Huangjia Town. You think there are so many people, so I can't find you. Go, go, why don't I go? I can't help you. Go, go, go. It's almost broad daylight. What do you want to do? I don't want to do anything. But Fourth Master If I want to do anything, I can do it. Go, go, go, let me go. Help me. Let me go. Look at you guys. You are just idiots. Thank you, thank you, thank you , thank you. Thank you. Money, collect the money, collect the money and don't leave. You haven't given me the money yet. Brother, what kind of world do you think this is? It's all for nothing. Just watch the fun and don't pay. It's not what you said. It's just a favor for someone who has no money. What kind of work is it? I don't believe it's more exciting than my golden gun stabbing the throat . I have to go and see my brother. Help me look at the stall. Second son, follow me. Let go. Help, help. Let go. Hold your legs. Look at the two of you. Why are you so stupid? It's shameless to bully a small number. Who's so careless and robbing people in broad daylight? Is there any royal law? Is there any royal law? Who is it? After all, stand up and stand up. Don't speak anymore. Please let me hear you clearly. Do you know me or not? I am from Jia's family on Longtan Street. He is the scarred fourth son. It's him. I'll tell you. It's this little girl who stole from me. I didn't steal this treasure passed down from my ancestors. I didn't steal it. I stole it. She stole it. I've been looking for her for several days. Let me tell you, young and old, don't just eat carrots and worry about going to the market and selling them. The vegetable vendor is all gone. He framed a good person. Why didn't I steal ? It's not up to you to steal or not . Come on, it doesn't count. You have the final say. Your family is the county government. You little bastard, what are you yelling at me again? I'll blow your mouth off. Come on, help, help, let me go. Help, Cuihua, let me go. Mom, Cuihua, are you okay? Mother Cuihua, are you okay? Fourth Master Cuihua , Fourth Master, please, please don't embarrass us orphans and widowed mothers, please, you said you, old woman, you are the instigator here. I'm so kind to Cuihua. Tell me, you two, you and I have food and drink at my master's house , and I'm taking good care of you. The wind doesn't blow the rain, the sun doesn't protect you, what are you doing? What are you doing out here with Cuihua? Oh, you brought her out to beg for food, you are a [ __ ] , right? What are you doing, fourth master? What are you doing? Please do it, please let my daughter go. Old and young men, please say something. Look, pity me, an orphan and a widowed mother. Yes, that's right. It's so outrageous. Please, young and old, please be so unreasonable. This is such an immoral thing, pity me. How can I do this? It's so immoral that I'm worse than a beast. You say it's too bullying. Come on, is this something humans do? This is too much. How can you do this? You beast, he is so shameless and hateful. This is not something humans do. Your Majesty, your Majesty, this old man is looking for death. What are you doing? Take him away, I want to leave, let me go, I killed someone, scarred fourth son killed someone, scarred fourth son killed someone, scarred fourth son, refused to let him go, you want to die, right? The old lady is so pitiful, you can be ruthless. What do you want to do? You can do it. Boy, whose crotch is not covered, and you are exposed. You didn't see the fourth master here. I saw the light and saw you bullying people here. Brother, I'll tell you to beat him, boy Long Tan. Street Jia family, have you heard about the Jia family's affairs? Don't worry about what I said. You walked out of the Jia family's crotch. How can it be so shameful? Your family will always be responsible for this matter. You are full of food. I really want to You're dead, aren't you bragging? We people from Ning'an Village, you dare to hit me. I see you are a brat talking back to the King of Hell. You're impatient. Isn't your Ning'an Village a place where thieves come from? Now they are finished with Ning'an Village. That's right, okay. I'm going to give Ning'an Village some face today. You get out of my way. I'm going to kick him to death if nothing happens. Is it okay? This matter is not your business. I saw it and followed him now. I have something to do with you, so what do you want to do about it? You should let the person go. You should pay for medical treatment. If you need to apologize, then apologize. I really gave you face. Okay, good fight , good, good fight, good fourth brother, are you okay? Good fourth brother , good fight, good fight, good fourth brother, fourth brother, fourth brother, are you okay? Fourth brother, let's come together. Okay, okay, okay, hurry up and focus on hitting the white-eyed wolf. It's the white-eyed wolf. Come to the side. What's going on with the fourth son ? What's going on, master? He bullies people, he beats people, he scolds us, and he even asked that bastard next to him to slap me with the sole of his shoe. All of you were beaten by him, master. You are scolding us for being a monkey who wears a hat to imitate the human form. Well, stop talking. Come on, we have never been this kind of coward. Stop talking. Where are you from? What is the name of Ning'an Village? Liang Yongsheng, these brothers under me are all You are the one who beat me, but you dare to do it, Liang Yongsheng. It seems that you are tired of living and looking for death. Go to hell. What should I do? He even got the guy. Okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, come on, use it. , what are you doing with my stick later? Brother, take the stick , hit hard , hit, hit hard, hit hard, hit, hit, hit hard, hit hard, hit hard, kill people, kill people, kill people, Run, kill people, run, old man, kill people, kill people in Ning'an Village , old master, old master, kill people, kill people in Ning'an Village, report to officials, report to officials, kill people, run, fast Brother Running, master, master, master, you are killing people. Close the stall and go separately. Good mother, master, master, master, wake up. Master, master, master, master, gun, master, big bolt, master is running away. Master, I will catch you and I will close the stall. Hurry up. Go back to Ning'an Village and call people, come on, come on, stop, come on, come on, you two, I'll lead them away, master, go over there, the fourth son is over there, catch him and kill him, master, hurry up, Cui Hua, this matter today has nothing to do with Yang Cuihua . Kill Liang Yongsheng, you stinky mother-in-law. How about we take a break or leave? If the white-eyed wolf comes up in a while, we and I will be dead. Let's go, mother, mother, Madam, come here, master, stop and give me a lot of eyes. You are all optimistic about Liang Yongsheng. I will let you live for a while. After leaving, I stood and took master, this is not the way back to Longtan Street. Why are you going to our Huangjia Town? The meeting has ended early. What are you doing? Why did I ask Huang Shanyou to borrow a gun ? Liang Yongsheng and I have formed a relationship. Isn't it Ning'an Village? Isn't it those unruly people? I don't believe that they all have nine lives, sir. Master, what are you doing? Master, let's really go to Ning'an Village. Master, we'll wait outside Ning'an Village. We're not afraid that this turtle grandson won't come out. As soon as he comes out , he'll shoot us to death with his old sleeve. It's not like poking a hornet's nest in Ning'an Village. It's not difficult to kill Liang Yongsheng . You know that I am a person who wants to save face. But when Liang Yongsheng made me look disgraced at the big party, I killed him quietly. Damn, where can I put my face? Where can I put my face? I've been looking for you all the way. You ran here and you came. How are you coming? My mother, my mother is dying. Madam, great lady Liang Yongsheng came to see us. Liang Yongsheng came. Look at us, my benefactor , please don't say that. I'm afraid the child won't survive . I'll take you to the doctor. Why do n't you go? You're a kind-hearted child. There's something I want to beg you for, as long as I can do it. The Cuihua who arrived is a miserable child. She has lost her father since she was born. When she was eight or nine years old, she asked human traffickers to abduct you. You also asked human traffickers to abduct you. What is your name? My name is Cuihua. You should go first, good bastard. You want to run, squint, come here quickly, run quickly, pull it faster, pull it down quickly, bastard, where are you going if you want to run away, run, run quickly, little bastard, don't let him run away, what's your name? My name is Cuihua, Yang Cuihua, run quickly. I will definitely come back to save you. Is your name Yang Cuihua? How did you know that there was a small stone when you were kidnapped? Do you remember? I remember that it was me. You were really a stone. Of course. I remember, I remember, look, I have always kept this piece of cloth. God, my mother, has also opened her eyes, so that we poor people can get together again. My child, I can't stand it any longer. I will be the last to die. , the thing that worries me the most is Cuihua of my family. Mom, I want to entrust her to you. Don't keep thinking about death. Don't worry. I will definitely treat her like my own sister. If she is not my own sister, you are a kind child. Let me think about it. If I betroth you Cuihua, please promise me. My child, do you want me to be unable to close my eyes even if I die? I beg you, child, auntie, I promise you. I promise to be a good boy. A good boy, come and help me sit down, you two. Just give it in this Dragon King Temple , give me a head , give me a head, and from now on, from now on, the two of you are the mother -in -law's mother -in -law, the mother -in -law mother and mother, the mother -in -law, is this no way? It's me, I want to come, she can't help it, then why don't others take you home? What's wrong with me? What are you doing? Go out, why are you going? What are you doing when you go out? Who are you when you go out? What do you want to do? It's a tough thing to say to me . I'm about to die. You still call me a bear. Today I'll show you what Prince Ma takes away with his three eyes . Come on, brother, it's okay. Just wait here. If it's okay, take him back. Come on, go back and follow me. Don't force me to attack women and hold a knife. Your head is harder than a water jar. White-eyed wolf, I tell you to kill me as soon as possible. Don't wait for me to writhe over. Wait for me to writhe over. You two are today. I'll definitely not be able to leave Ning'an Village. I'll wait until you are reincarnated in your next life. Let's talk about it. Let 's go. Don't follow me. Brother, don't come here. Put the knife down. Brother, brother, whoever comes, whoever comes, whoever comes, whoever comes, the white-eyed wolf wants to kill Brother Yongsheng. Come on, come on, young and old men, come to Yongsheng's house and kill, kill and kill. Old and young men, come to Yongsheng's house, come to Yongsheng's house, kill and kill. Come on, go fast, big tiger brother, big tiger brother. Something happened. What happened ? What happened? What happened? This white-eyed wolf wants to kill Brother Yongsheng. Why? Stop, stop, don't move, don't move, don't come here , put it down, don't come here, Master, how do you do it? It's not easy to do it, it's not easy to do it, it has to be done, otherwise we won't be able to survive in Ningjin in the future. Si'er, listen to me. Ah, once you take action, kill Liang Yongsheng first. I know, please be honest. Old and young gentlemen, every injustice has its debtor and its owner. I am here today and want to take Liang Yongsheng away. He has nothing to do with others. I hope you all, young and old. Gentlemen, give me Jia Mou some face. All young and old gentlemen, I am here this time to take Liang Yongsheng back to Huangjia Town. Because Liang Yongsheng refuted my face in Huangjia Town, as long as he regains this face from me, I will let him go. Come on, young and old gentlemen, you are blind. Don't let your body bleed. Even though you are like a bear, you still need face. Your face is like the shoe mat under my feet. I will trample you to death. Even you are not afraid of the strong wind. Your tongue is right! You are a wolf with white eyes, I told you to let my brother go quickly or else I will attack you and let my brother go. My brother let me go and my brother let me go. My brother Liang Yongsheng listens to my advice. Follow me back obediently, maybe you will come back alive. Otherwise, there will be a lot of coffins today. Did you come to Ning'an Village just to talk? If you have the ability, kill me. Look, who of us is afraid of the other? Now that I have said that, For this reason, don't blame me for breaking up with you. If any of you want to go out today, just come, but I have to tell you beforehand. Look at one gun, two guns, three guns, four guns, five guns, and countless bullets. Who dares to come up and kill him first? Brothers and sisters, whoever steps forward and shoots, you know , come on, who is afraid of whom? Come on, you can't go back like a big tiger | Go, brother, leave it alone, white-eyed wolf. You guys can go and try. You guys are trying to walk into Ning'an Village. This is the end of your life. Don't say anything. Okay, this has nothing to do with them. I'll walk with you, let's go, get out of the way, get out of the way, get out of the way, fellow villagers. Our brother is a member of Ning'an Village. If we are taken away by them, how can we hang out outside? How can we hang out? Let my brother go and get out of the way. If you dare to take my brother away, I will fight you to the death. It has nothing to do with you. Go back and take good care of my uncle. Be obedient and catch me. This thing happened because of me. It has nothing to do with Brother Yongsheng. I'll let you go and let my man go. I don't know when Brother Yongsheng married his wife. I don't know either. Ah, when did this Yongsheng brother get married? Goudaner Cuihua, let's go. Brothers, uncles, aunts, this incident has affected everyone today. Come back. It's okay. I'll go with him and see what he does. Brother, get out of the way. Get out of the way. You can't take him away. My brother can't be taken away. My brother can't be taken away. My brother can't be taken away. My brother can't be taken away. Don't follow me. Come back. Brother, forget what you said today. I'll do it today. They're right, come on. We're not afraid of death. We're not afraid of death. What are you going to do if you let Brother Yongsheng go? It seems that we can't take this person away today. I originally wanted to let Liang Yongsheng go, but I don't want Ning'an Village to go on a killing spree. But you guys are so shameless. I'll count you to three now. If we don't disperse, I'll kill Liang Yongsheng first and then bloodbath Ning'an Village Master, put down the gun, don't move, put down the gun, put down, put down, don't move, put down the gun, put down the gun, put down, put down the gun, put down the gun, put down, put down, put down the gun, put the gun down, put down, put all the guns away, and get out of here immediately, you don't know What happened today is none of your business. You get out of the way. As long as you are here, there is no need to ask anything. But don't forget that this is Ningjin. If you know the truth, stop talking nonsense. Du Meicai, do you think your rabble can handle me? Is the machine gun firing? You bastard, who are you talking about? I'll count you to three. If you don't leave, don't blame my men for ruthlessly destroying Mr. Xi Meicai. We don't have the same knowledge as him. We don't have the same knowledge as him. You can throw out all the bullets. Play a trick with me and I will spare your life today. If you continue to do evil things and provoke Ning'an Village in the future, I will not spare you lightly. Sooner or later, we will meet again. Don't forget that day when we meet again. Naturally, I will not forgive you. I will forget that it is not so easy for you to run wild on our land. Our Ning'an Village is not a place where you can come and leave whenever you want. You can't let him go. Today, this officer is here to help us. Let's get rid of the siege today. I heard the superior said to let the people go. Let's let them go. It's not a crime to take human lives for such a few dogs. Ning'an Village is a place with royal laws. Let them go, go away, go away. Get out of here, Liang Yongsheng, remember that this person can't protect you for the rest of your life. The day he leaves is the day I kill you. White-eyed wolf, I tell you that no one in Ning'an Village can rely on you. If you don't accept it today, you don't have to leave. I'm rolling, rolling, rolling, rolling, rolling, rolling, rolling, rolling, rolling, brother, what are you doing? Brother, eternal brother, let's talk about it later, okay? I and your surnamed Jia have nothing to say, Haicheng, get out of the way, I said to him, &quot;Hai.&quot; I have long disliked you. You are so arrogant. If my brother hadn't saved you at that time, you would be drinking with the Lord of Hell now. You know, it's okay if you don't repay your kindness. You are still biting my brother like a mad dog. What are you doing? What kind of business do you mean? Do you know anything? What are you talking about? I have such a bad temper. Songhua, stop, stop, stop. Stop, stop, stop. You, let go. Haicheng, Haicheng, don't move. Let me go. What are you doing? Your surname is Liang. I'm not done with you. Haicheng, stand at attention and shut up . Okay, don't be angry. Brother Yongsheng, I don't know what holiday you have with the Jia family. Let 's talk about it later. Let's go to Qingdao first. Okay? If there is any holiday, will you? I know what kind of bears you and I are pretending to be. Brother, look at his bear-like appearance. It's superfluous for you to follow him. It's really not possible. I don't have Zhang Butcher in Haicheng. I don't eat pigs with hair. What are you talking about? Haicheng, you can eat whatever you like. No one cares about you. You can do it yourself. What are you doing here? What are you doing? What are you talking about? What are you doing? Go home. Brother, what are you doing? Have you forgotten what dad said? You haven't done anything about Qingdao yet?