Ahh, it's so smart Hello and welcome to the DriverReviews and today we are looking at the first electric called N. This is based on the already but this one has a heavy bias towards thrills will be my perfect companion on some The price? Well, it starts at anything from the pricier Porsche and anything and everything in between. please press subscribe and the bell icon so that This is the Ioniq 5 N. And the N brand what M is to BMW. Well a lot like that, actually, because the man who used to head up the M division for BMW heads up the which is the south Korean district where this Nurburgring, that driver's playground, If you are expecting this car to be then it is not. It is very much a performance It is actually bigger than the normal Ioniq 5. It 5 cm wider. And that is to take into account the When it comes to looks, well, it's as though and picked up anything and everything in its path. cool things down, and then a really prominent chin runs all the way along the car and round to the At the top is this huge roof spoiler, the biggest rear diffusers I have seen on there's a brake light, and then to chequered reflector lights. It is To give your eyes a rest, open the boot. Here which increases to 1540 when the back keeping it all on the road are these This Ioniq 5 N has been fitted technology that has been specifically developed by Pirelli. Inside, there are certain design features really pressing on. This centre console, and there is even some padding here for some and connected to the car when you're really this in a car that isn't a racing car before. than in the non-N Ioniq, and that is just to There are more normal things, like a sliding forward to be useful to me. Then you have got and wireless charging and loads of sockets, so An interesting feature is this rear-view mirror. It can be a normal from a camera that is on the rear spoiler of angle. Talking of mirrors, this door one coming onto a roundabout. I know that's because shorter side of things, you just have to sort There is the usual long list of tech, from the steering wheel itself is rammed full of and fun levels, which is what this car but I am hoping that it will deliver the Before I go, I have to show you the also a couple of really nice details, and this sunblind, which you can put up and DriverReviews partners with many of the largest thousands of verified and unbiased customer tyre different tyre brands across all price ranges Dunlop, Michelin, Continental, Hankook and many look out for the DriverReviews logo to come from real customers just like you. To and to find out the winning tyres of this year's In normal mode, you get just over 600 horsepower. Boost mode and you get 650 horsepower. Plus you get Then you have got three levels of launch control which means that it would be impossible not private roads or a racetrack of course. This thing is quick, there is no denying it. 0 to 62 happens in 3.4 seconds. It'll impressive is its torque. 740 newton metres of GTB. And to put that performance even more into and cheaper than my current favourite high-performance electric car, the Porsche Taycan. And that's even in the entry level guys, There are more settings to keep hold of all of on a racetrack, there is something called N where it reduces the peak power so that you can mode, where it prioritises short bursts. There are cope with it all. But how easy is it to use on the read an awful lot of instructions before you get But familiarisation will solve it all. When it comes to slowing things system to date. The regenerative system is the has got an impressive deceleration force of 0.6 g. they then join the party and slow things down technologically savvy system that helps On any stretch of tarmac, it is crucial to in an electric car, because you do lose some I'm really pleased to say that feedback is pretty got the steering in the most sporty setting, However, this car has a party piece that It's another bit of tech called n-e shift, and it's in there on my steering wheel and it basically mimics you think that you're driving a car with got the physical attributes of you hitting the It demands that you feed it another gear from the paddles on the steering wheel. But this car doesn't have blowing my mind. These paddles actually work the but it's making me feel like there is one. It It is really clever because, and I've had to when the car is in, say, fifth gear, going really Normally with an electric car, the instant torque car thinks you're in the wrong gear, it sort up until a normal conventional petrol engine you know, change gear or bang down the gear and Now, you might have tuned into the fact that you a car. And you would be right, because, yes, with, and it's in here somewhere, with N Active I told you this wasn't the easiest thing to navigate when you're on the move. Sound. Here we go. N active sound plus. And you can choose between three different noises. This is Now, for me, that's not quite loud enough. and it was a lot louder than this, so you can Hyundai for this one, please, going Then you've also got evolution, which is sort of the usual sound of the future of Yeah, I'm not too fussed about either of those, because I have found one that I You're welcome. It is the most petrol-powered noise I can possibly get. And it Oh It even blips the throttle for you. Oh, it's so addictive. Now, I know that it might make you wonder, that behaves and sounds like a petrol car with a I really do. But Hyundai here is showing us that a battery with a body bolted on top, you can give So that's the forward stuff and the slowing this has got a four-wheel-drive system that's got system which basically fine-tunes the setup for driving modes you're in. The driving modes. I got three, you've got eco, normal. Well, let's On these country roads, the Ioniq N its size belies. And it is the little handling Oh, it grips so nicely that you fire yourself out and What an all-around wonderful experience. Bravo, N. Bravo. The Ioniq 5 N is very much bursting with hot hatch DNA, all be it for the electric there's loads of space in there. Plus, if you then don't worry, this thing will top But most importantly for me, it is a brilliant Thank you so much for watching subscribe and the bell icon so that you're