Professor Paul Bloom: introduction to evolutionary psychology from an evolutionary a case and give some examples of illustrate certain aspects of One of the advantages of an mind is that it forces us to would otherwise take for There are a lot of aspects of what we do that seem so natural They come so instinctively and and sort of unnatural, scientifically but if we're at the mind from a scientific sort of distance from ourselves people would not normally think And the clearest case of this And as a starting point there's psychologist and philosopher begin with. To the psychologist alone Why do we smile when pleased Why are we unable to talk to a friend? turn our wits upside down? are the common man.] &quot;Of course we smile. at the sight of the crowd. And so probably does each things it tends to do in the To the lion it is the lioness to the bear the she-bear. the notion would probably seem creature in the world to whom a fascinating and precious and object which it is to her. note about this passage. It assumes not just merely in It assumes that--William James male humans who sometimes take And so, it assumes a male You wouldn't normally--You this way. beautifully written and you're that way anymore either. if--William James way. better than his brother, an obscure novelist. Finally though, terrific one, all of these things seem they seem natural is not because or logical truths. contingent aspects of our And so we need to step back. back and ask questions like--and to ask--Why does poop smell bad? &quot;Well, poop smells bad because The stinkiness of poop is not universe. is a fact about human To a dung beetle poop smells Why does chocolate taste good? tastiness of chocolate isn't world. that doesn't hold true for many And so, we have to step back chocolate appealing? Don't say they're lovable. and, as William James points most animals, children. precious and wonderful. Why do we get angry when people Suppose somebody walked up to You'd be afraid. Would you get sleepy, suddenly desire some cold soup? Those are stupid alternatives. us you would--we would get angry Why? someone does us a favor? Why don't we feel fearful? throughout this course is step We're going to ask questions thought to ask, address, of course, standard in all The first step to insight is to fall down and not up? who articulated the question response saying, Of course things fall down.&quot; fall down, but why? Why does water turn solid when These are natural facts about but the naturalness needs to be assumed. explore, throughout the course, try to make sense of it. questions that you wouldn't We've already done this to some visual perception, rationality, but now we're going maybe even somewhat more Now, we're going to start We're going to talk about the what they're there for, I want to start off with the And the wrong theory of the illustrated in the television Trek. world, there are characters, Spock in the original Star spin-offs, who are described as capable, in fact in many ways, capable people. having emotions. having emotions because he's they lack emotions. to lack an emotion chip. this--on a TV series does not They're able to fully function. in a TV series emotions are You do better off without them. sort of common sense who might use my rationality, and not let my emotions guide my off.&quot; notion of how to think about the And in fact, Using the example of Star in his book How the Mind the problem here. been driven by some motives or Something must have led him to to seek out new civilizations had gone before.&quot; curiosity that set him to drive It was solidarity with his competent and brave officer. attacked by a predator or an Did he do a handstand, theorem? quickly mobilized his faculties to take steps to avoid a future. Spock did not walk around naked Presumably, he felt modesty. Presumably, he had some He engaged in conversations. sociable interests. would do nothing at all. scientifically. don't exist in the real world unfortunate cases where people to some extent or another, And you could look at these them. the most famous case, Gage. Intro Psych example - an poor schmuck. foreman. site with explosives and iron And due to an explosion, head like so. upwards. popped out the top of his head. feet away covered with blood and The rod itself weighed thirteen Amazingly, Gage was not killed. unconscious only for a short his friends surrounded him and And they--And then they took On the way to the hospital, had a little pint of cider to people. had to have surgery. done he wasn't blind, didn't lose language, no paralysis, In some sense, He lost his character. time of what Gage was like. excellent book Descartes' He used to be a really a family man, very trustworthy. fitful, irreverent, grossest profanity, deference for his fellows, advice, capacities and manifestations. a strong man. that women are advised not to And he couldn't hold a job. couldn't hold a job. He was in the circus going iron rod telling everybody the clapped. Phineas Gage, damage to that same part of the cortex. basically lost a good part of And what this means is they about things. Damasio tells a case of one of pseudonym here of Elliot. frontal lobe. and with it came a lot of And again, as a result of this, deaf or retarded, of profane character that but he lost the ability to He lost the ability to set Damasio describes him here: At his job at an activity understand the significance of office.] likely, to turn from the task he had else and spending an entire day He might spend an entire principle of categorization he Should it be the date or the pertinence to the case or He couldn't set his goals. being able to keep a job, people. lost their emotions. you could have your emotions But they lost a large part of a result, their rationality Emotions set goals and And without them you wouldn't anything. study, to go out with friends, to raise a family, priorities set by your emotions. without those emotions. we're going to explore here. that emotions are basically priorities and we're going to and the next class about We're also going to talk about It turns out that cultures, including differences between American South and the American have somewhat different baselines to respond to. as Darwin well knew, that are shared across all So, the agenda for this class go like this. bit about facial expressions, communicate our emotions - not but an important way - and at the case of smiling because Then I want to look at one case that of fear. feelings towards our kin, related to, to the next class, So first, faces. I have a brief film clip from world's great scholars in the In Ekman's work, instructions on how to make faces. more practical career along with He trains police and secret out cues to honesty and There's a very interesting by Malcolm Gladwell a few years interested in. Please lower your brows and That means even those who me now. Tense your lower and upper Don't pop out contact lenses Stare. [laughter] Okay. Press your lips together with That's good. [laughter] Okay. eye contact with me doesn't mean Okay. . What emotion does that Anger. of different faces from around. is but he seems to be on a lot but the thing is you don't need You don't need to rely on Even if you go on line there's, faces from all sorts of genders This is from a Japanese women And there are some subtle and across countries and across universals. hard to figure out what these mean. example because I want to focus This one's a little bit easier. back and up, please. [laughter] Raise your cheeks. can. You're smiling. Yale is actually really big on We have two of the world's This is Angus Trumble, Gallery who wrote this wonderful A Brief History of the in art. Marianne LaFrance, that picture but she studies smiling in children, and the different social uses And there are some interesting about smiles and about smiles One--Oh. universal. that young children smile. Zachary, when he was younger, [laughs] [laughter] Thank God. And even blind children, will smile. making an important point that looking at other people's faces. human. Smiles are social signals. smile when they're happy. It's not as simple as that. wish to communicate happiness studies. bowlers and the studies are very What they do is they film So, the bowlers do their down all the pins, A strike. the bowling world. pins but what they don't do, knock down the pins. They don't smile. friends and give a big grin. films of people who have just Now, not surprisingly, gold medals are very happy. Olympic gold medal. on the podium grinning. their faces in a normal Then when they stand up and there's a big smile. during sex, an activity where whether or not people smile And you can discover this a partner or a mirror. So, there are other things we There are different types of There are actually quite a few are different in interesting This is Paul Ekman again. Which one's a better smile? right? left? of smiles. of greeting. Am&quot; smile. which had at that time--They stewardesses anymore but come in and they would smile. But it was a big, a smile to communicate &quot;hello&quot; smile where the communication is The difference is around the It's not the mouth. A real happiness smile, smile, after a neurophysiologist involves moving the eyes. only one out of every ten people So, if you smile at somebody, but you want to smile at them, gifted it's difficult to fake a You could--It's not difficult world. for instance. contexts where they have to And what they do is they simply The mouth moves up, attacking their record or and they'll smile and--but it's The eyes don't move. a few years ago when there was a majority leader. named John Boehner won this battle. guy--This is not very nice. Roy Blunt, as he stepped out. his expression. And he's not really very happy as opposed to a smile like So, you have two sorts of Duchenne smile--called--also and then a Pan Am smile, And you'll use each of those your day and in your life. different smiles have real They seem to sort of reflect and emotions and thoughts. for instance, When their mother approaches smile. or someone else approaches there greeting smile. couples. work--Well, what he does is he And by analyzing the film clips marriages survive. different cues. sort of side topic: for Gottman--This is his big It's not if they fight a lot. other. other. is contempt. clips: I walk in, spouse has the look of contempt, [laughter] smiles they give when they see the lab. that's actually bodes better Am, or greeting smile. of college yearbook photos later. correlation, a reliable somebody is now and back thirty photo--what sort of smile There is some evidence for a This is known as a coy smile or This is sort of a very This is a smile of You give it when you want you want to join in; positive about you. sort of, a high-stress of risk. you turn away. You turn away and kind of give up in other primates. [laughter] own infant, and the infant gives submissive, coy smile. infants. baby smile. The baby is being approached, goes like this , and then the aversion . Babies are cute. Any questions at this point What are your smiling questions? Student: Do nonhuman Professor Paul Bloom: I don't know. smile shows up in non--The &quot;Do nonhuman primates give the such as a distinction between a greeting smile, happiness? I'll find out for you for next That's a good question. Student: How come some other people's smiles? How come some people's smiles smiles? psychological answer, and there's more thing-- but the deeper answer is some Some people are better able to happiness. smiles which is going to come I think, which is going to come emotional contagion and some issues of morality. So, what I'd like people to somebody, please turn around and look at them. Just look at them. look back. This is not-- [laughter] Okay. the smiler. not at me, at each other, and that will be the person--If dispute--yes, unable to resolve this dispute, will be the smiler. expressionless. Now, the person who is the [laughter] One, two, three. [laughter] [laughter] restrained circumstances, difficult to be facing somebody not smile. by the way, for virtually every The phenomena is known as you're facing somebody, and they're--they look at you it is very difficult to just molding in accord to their own. happens and how that works is on. Yes. Professor Paul Bloom: I question is, smiling with your teeth versus There probably is. difference but my bet is that And my bet also is that that how much teeth you show when is the sort of thing that would country differences. there's been research finding different from people in the And I think that those are the expect to find in cross-cultural Every culture is going to have happiness smiles, of that sort is something which you're raised and the people I want to deal with a few and the first case study of an the emotion of fear. for different reasons. emotion, it's universal. Many nonhumans, species have it too. the lecture on behaviorism where conditioning and different afraid of. What I mean by this is it's to be afraid of a person, gratitude, it's not You could be afraid of falling It has a distinctive facial This is a famous picture of Lee assassinated by Jack Ruby. face standing there, the face being drawn back in a human everywhere would be able So, the basic question to ask And the answer's a little bit We're afraid of spiders, storms, large animals, strangers, humiliation, alone. too but those are big things to I'm not even going to ask. this room, who's not afraid of You're a tougher person than I These are universal fear Why? Why would you be afraid of And the answer is--And why people afraid of guns, The answer is not particularly These are things there. in our ancestral environment. these are things that through have been dangerous to us. things and not so afraid of similarly for nonhuman primates. certain things and they can certain things, the fears they develop, snakes. urban Chicago, And they asked children raised &quot;What are you most afraid of?&quot; say, &quot;I'm afraid of being shot. I'm afraid of being killed by somebody. a car.&quot; children in urban Chicago are even though many of these seen a snake outside of a zoo in These are natural fears. the psychologist Judy DeLoache she's studying babies' fears of babies obviously who, have not yet seen spiders and There are various ethical babies--you can't try to spiders and snakes but the more indirect methods finds, these are what psychologists that is, these are things that concern. about fear. this lecture and for next emotions. broken down into two categories. Those emotions you feel towards relatives, and those emotions you're not related to but And I want to focus generate kind or altruistic &quot;Altruism&quot; is the biologists' generosity, and evolutionary hard to explain why animals A very old, very wrong view of shaped animals such that they're If so, then from an kindness towards an animal--that animal--is a mystery. to survive, then it's a puzzle positively to other animals. Here's a simple example showing Imagine two genes, containing their own gene. for its offspring. only for itself. next generation. It's a very simple case. brain that says, will do much better from a from an animal who has evolved a &quot;Eat your offspring.&quot; offspring, those genes are a What matters then is not What matters is reproduction. we would expect animals to care because children are the means But it gets a little bit richer And this is one of the major biology over the last half Forget about the animal a bit Take a perspective of the cold People have been sneezing in Now, you're coughing. Why do you sneeze when you get Here's not a-- Point made. answer. all these germs inside you and out, so you sneeze. wrong, but it's not bad. more interesting. person's perspective. try to get away from your own &quot;I have a cold.&quot; of the cold virus. as much as you evolved. survival and reproduction. evolve different strategies to And what it does is--one way to animals and manipulate their From this point of view then, you have a cold is that your your body as a tool to replicate From this person--this germ's way of making other And there's tons of other There's a parasite known as bodies of rats. rats get eaten by cats. cats' feces and then it ends up If you are a rat and you have you are perfectly healthy The toxoplasmosis rewires your afraid of cats. sort of bizarre quirk of a Rather, it's because this is a strategy of the toxoplasmosis In fact, a real powerful virus system altogether, What it would do is it would make people want to run around and kiss them on the mouth. there is some evidence that There's some evidence, that one of the effects of like syphilis is it arouses the makes people more sexually the strategy through which these Imagine a virus, that captured an animal's brain brain such that the animal would so as to pass on the virus. you would call that virus Along these lines, Richard Dawkins took the general are the vehicles through which From this perspective, person's--is just the gene's way Well, as psychologists, this way of analysis give us? altruism. survive? are going to be the ones that themselves. which genes reproduce. way of making another gene. to altruistic animals because, operates at the level of the there's no hard and fast body and someone else's body. the biologist Haldane. &quot;Would you lay down your life And he responded, life for three brothers or five Now, he's joking. if you're normal. logic, the ultimate causation of Our genes have wired us up--our and love our kin because, our genes manage to replicate And in fact, looking at genetic relatedness. from an evolutionary care for other people. genes, you dying for the life of compromise because the genes If you imagined--;So, If you imagined a choice the animal choose to die and the choose for its brothers to die, body it belongs to will make And there's an interesting The selfish gene theory is cold-blooded evolutionary but it provides a scientific genuine altruism, from the standpoint of the and fast difference between From this perspective, interesting questions at least When a new male lion takes over the remaining cubs and any abortions. but from a genetic standpoint it The other cubs are genetic They do not have his genes. of the way can he reproduce and The females do their that's a reliable adaptive These cubs are not going to the female's best strategy is to From a psychological point nice to their kin, and particularly in birds and Birds and mammals invest in as opposed to fish and For birds and mammals, we devote a huge amount of protecting the ones that we Moreover, the kids we have are time and require our resources. psychological mechanisms that One is how parents or how children. respond to parents. few of these phenomena. Small animals make distress They chirp, they mew, The governing of a distress delicate high-wire act for any evolutionary point of view. annoying enough to actually to get people to help you, to pick you up, to you. it can't be so annoying that [laughter] But, from your point of view, them. at very minimum, And it's more--it's not or pitch. brains are wired up so that that up the wall. babies are cute. typing in &quot;cute baby,&quot; getting rid of the porn and coming on to that. but anyway it was over that. And do not be tempted to say, way nature works is that babies Otherwise we would have killed [laughter] If--Babies are not--Human sort of, metaphysically cute. wouldn't say, Rather, they're cute because of They're cute because there are the way our brains work. this is how it works for all So, babies have these big, an upturned little nose, Those are the ingredients for Stephen Jay Gould has a discussed this, Mickey Mouse from the Walt Mickey Mouse starts off as an [laughter] cuter and cuter as the artist baby-like features. known as a baby-face bias. United States. in Asia. adult, Leonardo DiCaprio, helpless, kind and warm. people with baby faces are more people like Ben Affleck, who do not have baby faces. Now, one question which is lecture later on is &quot;who is Testosterone Man?&quot; [laughter] for a vote because I'm going to I do not--I only want the men Who would go for--And forget unhappy. here? [laughter] Okay. Well, the women votes would We will discuss when we get the Your choice will depend on cycle. Now, so far, respond to--We're talking about What about babies' responses to Well, there's a very old theory proposed by the behaviorist B.F. babies' attachment to their provides food, but it could be food from a And because of operant the baby is driven towards the An alternative theory is that drawn to their mother for as well as fear of strangers. the psychologist Harlow experiments with nonhuman what he called &quot;wire mothers&quot; And you'll see illustrations of Wire mothers are mothers that They have a little nipple it and give food to the baby. food. food but they give warmth and There was a while in the professor was known to be students but didn't really And he was known as the cloth And another one was very provided no love. mother. movies. and final movie is an example of currently done, scientific point. Now him-- I think I'm-- They're [laughter] next class by wrapping up and more detail and what they tell And then we'll move towards I'll see you next week.