In 1939, the Fuhrer's declaration of war heralds the rise of within Hitler's inner circle. SS boss Heinrich Himmler. [Guy] The outbreak of war gives Himmler all his twisted, racial thinking These can all happen, in his view. To make his dreams a reality, Himmler has within his SS His name is Reinhard Heydrich. He is utterly ruthless, manipulative, and a useful man to have Heydrich and Himmler But as they push forward inner-circle rivals are already plotting Goring will look at Himmler Your boy's doing really well here. He's And, of course, Bormann It is a very, very old political game and Bormann And Heydrich's meteoric rise both inside and outside This is the inside story the power struggles, that would create a monster and fuel the September 1939. The invasion of Poland is underway. And for Hermann Goring, the most powerful man within Hitler's [Guy] It pummels Polish towns and cities, It is, you know, and Goring takes full credit for it. In this film, penetrating pictures give the German people a powerful impression and show that will be struck and destroyed. This is a complete turn around for Goring. At the beginning of that year, Hitler's expansionist plans Goring is a real sceptic but it goes really, really well And this gives Goring yeah, this is a great idea. But there are others in the inner circle who also realise that Poland Heinrich Himmler, is looking to set in motion a radical plan Himmler is an ideologue. In many ways, he's kind of if such a thing is possible. He's anti anyone ILLUSTRATIONS Himmler really is a dyed-in-the-wool You know, he's got a vision of the future It's a vision that the Fuhrer shares, as he celebrates his victory His plan are clear and uncompromising. [archive, German] The Fuhrer's words confirm for Himmler that Poland is where their shared Himmler plans to turn a large part or &quot;living space&quot; He doesn't just want he wants to get rid of the Slavs as well. He wants to get rid He's got this idea, you know, REPRODUCTION OF SUPERIOR PEOPLE I'm going to Germanise Himmler's goal is to expel millions of to make way for German settlers. It's a radical project motivated but also by his appetite for power. Once they've all been cleared and they've taken over their Lebensraum, it is the SS that are So as they move into occupied territories, so Himmler's own role and authority And Himmler has his very own example Reinhard Heydrich and head of the infamous SD, While Himmler fixates he's the one that gets things done. [Robert] Well, Heydrich He's not a dreamer. He's someone who tries to implement [Guy] If you want to draw you're going to draw Heydrich. Heydrich is tall, he is blond. He's a brilliant fencer Such is Heydrich's reputation, Heydrich was absolutely ruthless He managed to put fear He could make people's blood run cold But when Himmler first met Heydrich, Back in 1931, while Himmler was building up Heydrich was unemployed and desperate. [James Holland] Before Heydrich joins up After all, he'd lost The cause of Heydrich's disgrace [Robert] He was simultaneously engaged and one of the women's fathers was a very influential man with good Heydrich made the mistake of dumping ...and her powerful father demanded Heydrich was dismissed as a result, not so much of the dual engagements but which was deemed to be unacceptable WAGGONBAU A.G. BERCHING, FOR RENT Heydrich's timing With the onset of the Great Depression, he was left high and dry But his favoured fiancee The woman who he was going to marry, been a supporter of the Nazi movement It was her who introduced him and also who encouraged him Himmler was looking for someone to create a new SD secret intelligence service Heydrich had never worked but he didn't let that hold him back. What experience does Heydrich have All he has done is read as a boy some And he uses his knowledge to impress Himmler as to how Luckily for Heydrich, Himmler, the wannabe soldier, was dazzled [Robert] Himmler is someone without ever having been a soldier, that military language, and he decides to charge Heydrich Having successfully completed Heydrich was now That is the limits of his experience, Heydrich learns on the job In Heydrich, Himmler had found prepared to do the dirty work He's sublimely efficient, Heydrich. In 1934, while Himmler drank tea it was Heydrich orchestrating the Nazi Party's What takes place, of course, is one of the most infamous acts It's called the Night of the Long Knives [gunshot] It's believed in just three days, between But the principal target Rohm is, in fact, the godfather So they are willing to sacrifice for their own political The Night of the Long Knives as the Nazi Party's foremost agency ...making the diminutive figure of Himmler But it's Heydrich In many ways, the extraordinary success because Himmler and Heydrich They have complementary talents, one is someone who manages to cultivate very close relations the other one is clearly a very efficient Five years after Heydrich is now in charge of every police And it's as the Nazi regime's that he receives from the Fuhrer's It instructs him to begin work GET RID OF JEWS ...to Hitler's so-called Jewish problem, by means of emigration or evacuation... THROUGH EMIGRATION OR EVACUATION ...in the most convenient way possible. [James Holland] Heydrich in 1939 He's still comparatively young. So, when he is given an order to start of course, And you know that someone like Heydrich motivated enough that he won't disappoint. Heydrich has in effect been chosen to make the Nazi dream but as the army prepares to invade Poland, he will soon acquire for which there appears Orders from the top, they're quite often quite vague. Hitler never says, He just says, Now, what does that mean? Who knows? And the interpretation of those orders As German troops pour into Poland, with securing and preparing To do this, he has formed special to terrorise the civilian population [Sonke] The task of the Einsatzgruppen was to decapitate the Polish society, you have to kill the priests, the politicians, the economic leaders, This was the task of the Einsatzgruppen. But this is merely groundwork to make Himmler's dream Heydrich's men have new orders. Millions of ethnic Poles are to be moved And as for Poland's Jews, They are all to be corralled DETENTION INSTITUTION ...ready for future deportation. They are suddenly marched out with every other Jewish family with one suitcase They're put on these long train journeys where they're crammed literally crammed into them like sardines. It is inhumane, it's disgusting, By early 1940, have been crammed into ghettos inside a newly created zone Heydrich has no moral or practical partly because it is only supposed But the impact is upsetting other senior Nazis. Hans Frank is the powerful new Nazi boss which includes the Polish capital, Warsaw, He is not happy about Heydrich using his new fiefdom [Robert] that his General Government as he calls it, a dumping ground for undesirables Frank also happens to be Himmler's inner-circle rival. Himmler will refer to Goring he's always got his snout in the trough, and write him off as this sort of you know, self-denying sort of shrew You can't get greater differences When Goring hears that SS activities are threatening the economic viability it's the perfect opportunity so he calls Himmler and his old friend [Frank] The real problem was Hans Frank of running the General Government and, of course, Himmler was given We have these disputes who's saying, look, stop dumping and Himmler saying, As the Fuhrer's number two Goring forces Himmler to agree can happen without Frank's consent. For Himmler, it's a frustrating reminder of who holds sway Heydrich will have to find a new plan As for Goring, his priorities as a new theatre of war is about to open. Emboldened by his success in Poland, Hitler decides to strike It's now their turn to experience the devastating effectiveness It started in early April and then on the 10th May 1940, the Wehrmacht attacked of France, Luxembourg, And flying combat missions is none other than Reinhard Heydrich. Unlike his boss Himmler, Heydrich satisfies his craving This was an incredibly risky undertaking for a man of his immense importance And it says a lot about his desire he wasn't just a man who could fly a desk he could take risks and he was a kind Once again, the Luftwaffe's is instrumental in defeating In just six weeks, Western Europe is under Nazi control [Sonke] the highest decorated and highest rank Decorated as Nazi Germany's Goring's position as the Fuhrer's The Nazi occupation of France a somewhat far-out solution The island of Madagascar. [Robert] Heydrich sees it in using the former French colony as a new Jewish home. Heydrich's plan is to ship all of to this remote island off the east coast It's a terrifying sign of the cruelty Heydrich is prepared Of course, it is always assumed that because Madagascar particularly for Central Europeans, that many people would die in the process But there is The British Navy. The plans for Madagascar on a German victory over Britain. As long as Britain is still in the war, the sea passage to Madagascar Goring, is about to take his biggest gamble yet. He promises the Fuhrer that he can bring [Richard] Goring is very keen that Somehow or other, it will put the Luftwaffe on a pedestal And at the same time, enhance Goring throws the full force But his pilots meet unexpectedly They didn't understand they didn't understand the radar system so they didn't quite get so therefore For months, Goring personally assures But as the conflict wears on, it is also for long-range operations And of course, there was the problem that Germans just don't have long-range So as long as the British don't lose for the German air force For Goring, it's a personal disaster. Having promised so much, all he can deliver is Nazi Germany's It's the start of a growing distrust a growing distrust Hitler's going to ask himself how much longer can I put up how much longer can I entrust him By October 1940, For Heydrich, the Madagascar plan But Goring's failure will lead as Hitler focuses his attention With Britain standing defiant, that the Soviet Union now holds the key Hitler's decided if you can defeat then to turn against Britain, and anyway Britain has no more hope in Europe, For Goring, invading the Soviet Union is strategic suicide but since his own military failure, For Goring, the British Empire is Goring makes this clear to Hitler, He is at a point at which he realises if Himmler and Heydrich, on the other hand, On the 22nd June, 1941, codenamed Operation Barbarossa begins. For Himmler and Heydrich, this is the showdown with what they regard What happens in the evolution of is this merging of Bolshevism and &quot;the Jew&quot; So, it becomes the Bolshevik Jew. And antisemitism runs Russia's' vast territory also offers for their new German empire and they will [Robert] fundamentally different Certain rules which could not be in the ideological war Himmler predicts that millions of Russian as the German army tears In its wake, the Einsatzgruppen follow. And it's soon clear a terrifying escalation of violence [Robert] Very quickly, begin killing Jewish men And then very quickly thereafter start At this point, Heydrich is moving from a territorial solution Heydrich is proving to be the inner circle's most committed follower And just weeks after the invasion, to sign off on what would [Richard] Heydrich comes to Goring with a THE JEWISH QUESTION ...to undertake the &quot;Final Solution&quot; The term &quot;Final Solution&quot; but what is clear is that Heydrich Heydrich is looking for assurances essentially from Hitler via Goring, that it is him, not the army, who is fully responsible A solution Heydrich, the man who only joined the SS is now stepping out of Himmler's shadow that lies at the heart of the Fuhrer's But ironically, it's antisemitism that When Heydrich was only one year a file claiming the young SS officer It revealed that Heydrich's had remarried a man These accusations that he's tainted, which, of course, in the Third Reich are a serious thing. The story had originally been used to tarnish the reputation a well-known musician and composer. Even though this idea had been shown to be nonsense it still dogs and haunts Heydrich. Though Heydrich could easily show he's well aware even unfounded rumours are dangerous. Therefore Himmler's support was crucial. [Guy] There's no doubt that Heydrich You know, we see repeatedly how it doesn't matter whether, you know, it will be used against you anyway, Heydrich knows this because Now, eight years later, Himmler's protege is proving Heydrich's Final Solution has evolved as his task forces develop They would round up predominantly Jews They would march them to a wood and they would get them They would shoot them [gunshot] The next group would then they would be shot and they would fall until the pit was filled, and then they And that was repeated right across It's a genocide instigated but also a cold, calculated bid for power. [Robert] Himmler and Heydrich they will be rewarded for implementing Tens of thousands of Jews [gunshots] And sites such as a ravine would become forever synonymous The mental image that we all have is, fundamentally, the railway tracks which lead under that famous building But the Holocaust really began Over just two days in September 1941, more than 33,000 Jews were systematically And how the SS leadership both to their men and themselves People like Himmler and Heydrich as weak and decadent, Their commitment was primarily So, what we consider heinous crimes, from their point of view, But for all of Himmler and Heydrich's the Fuhrer has decided control over this vast new territory Hitler is always careful not and even though he is actually trying and other agencies But Heydrich is far from giving up. He has already in his sights the perfect His target, the Protectorate of Bohemia For the Nazis, the Protectorate of Bohemia In an economic sense, there are major armament productions and with the beginning we see a massive increase Czech saboteurs are severely damaging For Heydrich, this is a job for the SS someone who has the Fuhrer's ear, [Guy] There's one man in order to take over The man he has to impress who is head of the Party Chancellery and is basically in the shadows That's why he's called I think that you have to realise just about every member route to Hitler is through Bormann. Heydrich mobilises his intelligence to disparage and denigrate What they are saying in charge of these territories [Guy] And he is desperate to, you know, and literally grab it by the neck until all the people start Bormann needs little persuading, as Heydrich's promotion a way to control Himmler's rising star. [Guy] If you look at Hitler's inner circle he is incredibly cunning. He knows that means he will be reporting directly he's reporting directly to Hitler When Bormann presents Heydrich's Hitler is furious. The Czechs, he says, Heydrich is coming to Prague. On his arrival, Heydrich cracks down very hard as soon as he arrives in the Protectorate. [Guy] Now, the common perception is, actually, is he just rounds up everybody and shoots But as well as that ultimate stick, So he improves the rations of workers. This is going to make people happy. Essentially, what he wants to achieve in which the labourers in the armament will no longer succumb to the propaganda It's an incredibly devious plan because he is taking away with one hand +(not german) Heydrich's strategy soon yields results. The Czechs appear and production figures are back up. When Heydrich returns to Berlin, Goebbels, the Nazi head of propaganda and one of Fuhrer's closest confidants, [Thomas] As Goebbels wrote into his diary, he managed to play cat and mouse and really managed to get them It was really then Heydrich within the Nazi hierarchy While Heydrich is personally Himmler's rivals watch with interest. Everyone wants It's like a kind of soap opera, They're constantly looking and Goring is watching He can sort of look at Himmler Your boy's doing really well here. He's going to be trouble for you And, of course, He's very much associating himself It is a very, very old political game. And Bormann Himmler's inner-circle rivals see Heydrich's success as a way [Robert] Heydrich now reports directly Some people perceive that as the beginning in the sense that Heydrich Heydrich is fast becoming in his own right. Now is the perfect time to take On the 20th January 1942, the Berlin suburb of Wannsee of high-ranking civil servants, party officials Chaired by Heydrich, it will be one of the most infamous Heydrich called the Wannsee conference, Firstly, in order to gain control and second, in order to coordinate in the implementation Heydrich's Final Solution up to 11 million people He'll require almost dictatorial control of numerous government agencies [Richard] Heydrich wants to make it clear that he is number one I'm in charge, and nobody is going to get in the way. The meeting is shrouded about how they will identify and classify THROUGH EMIGATION OR EVACUATION ...and then move them They'd now reached a new level They were going to be deporting Jews The meeting didn't spell out but the implication [gunshot] With millions of Jews imprisoned Heydrich's Final Solution into a genocide on an industrial scale. What Heydrich and the Gestapo officials is the idea of setting up very large numbers of people in one day In other words, you moved from a to a more abstract, By March 17th 1942, at Belzec in eastern Poland where, in just three months, [Richard] And that's what happens These camps are set by March 1942 and that's where millions and millions Himmler and Heydrich are planning of innocent men, women and children. Perversely, the management is the pinnacle of Heydrich's career. As spring arrives in Prague, As overlord of the Czechs the days of defending And appropriately, with a concert of his father's work. [Robert] This is a moment Something that, of course, was very close to his heart. [Guy] He's in charge of the Protectorate He's in charge of all the security And he is effectively in charge the genocide of the Jewish people. That evening, shows a new side to his personality. He was schmoozing, he was And it seems, ironically, a kind of social confidence So it was a mark of the fact that The following day, Heydrich is expected After his success in Prague, in the occupied territories The SS leadership's ambition in 1941-42 is to expand their powers to the rest of Eastern Europe which is still very firmly controlled It could be a major breakthrough But Heydrich's rising status could also make him a target. The next day, Heydrich takes to a waiting plane [Guy] It's a mark of Heydrich's arrogance Not for Heydrich, the idea of cowering with a whole line of tanks No, he wants to show, you know, in an open-top car It's a journey Heydrich has made and with the hope of a new promotion, He must have been feeling super confident and very happy The reports to Berlin were looking good. The reports from Berlin were looking good, But as the car slows to take The next thing he sees is a man with a Sten gun, and points it at him. Heydrich immediately goes for his gun. The bomb thrown by a second assassin All sorts of stuff But it doesn't seem to affect him. He continues to fire at the conspirators But he then slumps back. He falls to the side of the car. He is now in a lot of trouble. On hearing the news of the attack, Himmler immediately sends Heydrich's wounds are serious Seven days after an operation Heydrich appears to recover. But then, ...falling into a deep coma [Guy] When news that Heydrich there is enormous shock It makes not one of those men If this can happen to Heydrich, Himmler's investigators soon discover that Heydrich's attackers were Czechs But the fact that Heydrich died under sparks rumours within the inner circle. [Guy] There's a lot of conspiracy theory And we even see it in the case Did Himmler deliberately But why? The theory is that in the long Heydrich was unique. a more ruthless and efficient You know, he could have easily been [James Holland] I suspect that he would have ended up because I think he's probably cleverer Despite the rumours and speculation experts are sceptical that Himmler really The rumours about internal involvement have really been around Some people, I'm pretty certain, were relieved when he died, although Heydrich died because medical science It's as simple as that. You know, it's a cock-up, Himmler was absolutely mortified He needed Heydrich. If the SS boss did have any concerns they are soon overshadowed by outrage. This is the first time a leading member And Himmler is not the only one Hitler is apoplectic, you know, Heydrich was so popular and it was clear Two villages are identified as being but it's merely a pretext I mean, there was They totally wiped out two villages, and they killed nearly 500 civilians, In full view of the world, the male inhabitants while almost 300 women and children where almost half of them While the two villages are literally Heydrich's body is returned to Berlin In the minds of Hitler's inner circle, Heydrich's death is a shock For Goring, isolated it is time to get back into the fray. Whereas Bormann will have to find new As for Himmler, it's horrifyingly simple, just continue Himmler begins to take more for pushing the genocide on OPERATION REINHARD He's very keen that the Final Solution Signed off as Operation Reinhard, the murder of over six million men, in what will become the single worst crime The Holocaust.