(wave crashes) - [Woman] Whoa. - [Narrator] Antarctica. Unbelievable, unbearable-- (water crashing) And now, a 50-day sea expedition attempts to crack its mystery, uncovering the improbable creatures that somehow thrive at this merciless, alien edge of our planet. (imposing ambient music) (splashing) Day one. The government research vessel Tangaroa embarks from Wellington, New Zealand on a precarious, 50 day, Destination? Antarctica. A voyage of potential (imposing, foreboding music) Just getting to the Ross Sea navigating the mighty Southern Ocean and 460 kilometers of crushing sea ice. In this International Polar Year, Tangaroa will join 17 other ships in a top-to-bottom census and Andrew Leachman is its captain. - Like a telephone directory of everything that's down there, because it's never really been done. (intriguing music) - [Narrator] But satellite charts show the worst icing condition in years. Even with Tangaroa's 70-meter this could be a Mission Impossible. Though he can hardly wait to get his hands on the strange, scaly marine biologist Andrew Stewart knows it'll be no dip in the ocean. - The ocean is a very Down here in the Southern Ocean, everything is that much harder. (waves crashing) You've got to kit up like the Michelin Man to get out on deck. Everything takes so much more effort. - [Narrator] Whatever happens, know they'd better play well together because there's no turning back. They certainly won't lack toys. The team has new gadgets, new cameras, cutting edge science to help them check the health of the ocean. (murky bubbling) Has overfishing caused harm? Is global warming forcing a sea change? The scientists aim to find out. (tense, intriguing music) Once they get past the seasickness. Ship's doctor Jenny Visser Tangaroa will sail well beyond the reach of a helicopter rescue. If illness or injury strikes, help will come by slow boat or not at all. Dr. Jenny's skills could mean the difference between life and death. - Right, how we doin'? - Good, we got that just over here. - Yep. - [Narrator] Six days out, the - See that? It's on the radar. That's good, that's good. - [Narrator] A free-floating chunk of ice calved off an ice shelf. This legendary menace of the high seas reveals only one eighth of itself as it glides aimlessly and - [Andrew L] Look out on port - [Narrator] The team find it thrilling. An ominous hint of the Tangaroa is a fisheries and these small icebergs, called growlers, seem to be ganging up on the ship. - Obviously, there's icebergs There's a few growlers about. We're heading south, so I'm not certain exactly I wanna go and have a look, and just have a feel for the terrain, and so which way we can to the Ross Sea. - [Narrator] Captain Leachman knowing others have attempted and failed. - You're in the footsteps It's a challenge. It's a real challenging to take a ship down there. (tense, still music) - [Narrator] In 1914, Sir Endurance became trapped in sea ice. He and his crew spent a grueling winter battling the elements crushed and sunk the ship. It's an epic tale of Antarctic survival, and it replayed in 2007 when ice engulfed the tour ship Explorer in Antarctic waters. - Read the history and you'll 'Cause I know the rules. - [Narrator] The rules are simple. Never underestimate the ice and never turn your back on it. Satellite ice charts and will help guide him to the Head scientist Stu Hanchet worries about the encroaching ice but he trusts the captain. - There was quite a bit of in fact be able to get into the Ross Sea and achieve some of our objectives. We envisage probably taking to break through the pack ice into the open waters (grave music) - [Narrator] The Tangaroa but he ice doesn't know it. (ice rumbling) The sharp prow makes (low, foreboding music) (tense ambient music) (whale blowhole spraying) - Right there. Look down there. (water sprays) - [Narrator] Off the stern, the scarfing down a hearty meal (water sprays) Minkes can grow nearly nine meters, positively puny compared to who can stretch to more and that means an awful lot of krill to sustain a healthy population of whales, penguins, and seals. (penguins vocalizing) Especially the crabeater seals, who also make their home slurping down krill, not crabs. Each year, they eat about 25 times their body weight in krill, filtered through their (penguins vocalizing) And these ever popular will pass the dark and They'll brave temperatures to lay eggs and raise their chicks. (penguins vocalizing) The work these scientists do down here could help all these animals (beeping) Each night, three hours of darkness brings new danger to (wind howling) Safety depends on constant vigilance. And this is only summer ice. In the winter, Tangaroa (ice sloshing) (seabirds calling) - All right, how are we doing? Let's look. - [Narrator] At last, (low, awed music) By now, Tangaroa has spent 10 days at sea, nearly four of them packed in ice. Wind and current keep ice free in summer. Voyage leader John Mitchell but experience tells him he - That's always gonna get in the way, regardless what you do. Even on the best ice years, It's always where you wanna be. - [Narrator] While the sea the team prepares to For the first time, these scientists will get to see what's down there, courtesy of the Deep Towed Imaging System they call DTIS, custom made for this type (low, pensive music) Its high definition will act as the team's eyes in this high pressure, (telephone ringing) - Okay, we're ready to go. And we're in position, go when ready. (crane whirs) - [Narrator] No one has in such icy conditions before. Too late to think about that now. (splashing) Like an explorer dispatched the imaging system begins The scientists hold their breath. - [Scientist] Yeah, this is the dry barrel on channel 15, mate. - [Radio Man] Roger that, thank you. - [Narrator] Nobody really At last, the ocean floor. (tense, low music) - Andrew, could you just hold - [Woman Scientist] It's going well. - [Man At Radio] Recording now. - [Narrator] To a marine Like the first moonwalk. As the live video images the scientists log what they see and strain to find things - [Woman Scientist] Some stars. - [Stuart] Yeah, mm-hmm. - [Narrator] They will crawl for an hour, the length of a video tape, giving the team their of polar marine life - [Stuart] There's of things here, isn't there? (water splashing) - [Narrator] Now that they've seen the creatures on the video, they want to get their hands on them. For that, they'll need to (machinery clunking) They approach trawling systematically. First, they'll trawl sweeping across the floor to Then, they'll trawl at mid level, collecting samples of free-swimming fish. Then, skimming the surface for plankton. They'll also use specialized equipment to sample water and mud from to study its microbes and chemical makeup. As a commercial fishing practice, bottom trawling dredges because of damage to the seabed. Science, however, takes - You know, we have limited our trawls to about 15 or 20 minutes bottom time. (chains clanking) The actual percentage impacted by the bottom Woo! It's chilly cold. - [Narrator] But the bottom 15 minutes before the rough seabed forces the crew to pull the net. That's the cue for Christopher Jones to grab his gear. - [Christopher] This will be exciting. - [Narrator] The anticipation forget all about the minus 10 And Andrew Stewart thinks have come at once. - It's gonna be be a bit like Santa Claus coming up the stern around there. We don't know what's Could be a pair of socks, or it could be a new bike. Who knows? (chains clanking) - No, this is good. We've got all sorts of things in here. - [Narrator] Santa must be - There's a big dissostichus, a big, beautiful dissostichus mawsoni. That's what we're lookin' for, add we got a good one here. - [Narrator] Dissostichus mawsoni, the Antarctic toothfish, one of the giants of the marine ecosystem. On the menu, it goes by Chilean sea bass, and it's harvested by the thousands. If it disappears from the ocean, more than dinner's at stake. - [Christopher] A nice, - [Narrator] It could mean an ecosystem on the brink of collapse. - This is the fish that is probably the most economically important species that's being caught by in the Southern Ocean. This is a fine specimen here of an Antarctic toothfish. - [Narrator] This big guy tells the crew that all's well down below. (crew murmuring) The undersea camera built about what they might collect. - [Researcher] Yes! - [Narrator] And the bottom trawl net delivers on its promise. Sponges, among the most have no nervous or digestive systems. They feed by filtering The trawl brought up an exotic specimen that weaves its body out of silica. - [Christopher] That's which is also known as a glass sponge. And very slow growing, very irritating if you get - [Narrator] And Santa's a special gift for Andrew. - [Andrew S] Snailfish. Fantastic. - [Narrator] Snailfish and Andrew may have found a new species. - Get some of these It's good haul. (low, pensive music) (engine humming) - This is why I came to Antarctica. Seeing things like this, it's just beyond words. We now have whole families of fishes that are found nowhere else in the world except in the Southern Ocean, and these are fascinating animals. These are the ice fishes. Temperatures above five degrees celsius are too hot for them, and in fact, are lethal for them. - [Narrator] The sea of fish to baffle and Nature even saw fit to of Andrew's snailfish. - You have to look at such features as the shape of the teeth, the jaws, the shape of the gill rakers, as well as counts of the vertebrae, counts of the dorsal and anal fin rays. - [Narrator] And then along that blows biologists out of the water. - [Andrew S] Now I have no idea which species this is at the moment. That color pattern on the fins is like nothing I've ever seen before. - [Narrator] Most scientists hope to find something truly new, but only a few actually accomplish it. Andrew might have discovered making him the first human that's evolved over millions of years. Though cut short, this first trawl offers something for everyone. - Oh, I'm very happy with We only had 10 minutes on the bottom, and there was some quite rough grounds, so we had to haul early, but, yeah, looks very good for the first one. (awed ambient music) - [Narrator] Scientists have cataloged about 135 species of fish from the largely unexplored Ross Sea. On this expedition, the team intends to add a new chapter to (low, simmering music) In the depths of the ship, the team studies the fish finder to locate schools of small fish and krill, the foundation of the - Yeah, we've got scratching - [Narrator] Since big the scientists want to check their health. That means another fishing expedition. (telephone ringing) - Yeah, hi, Andrew, it's Richard here down in the acoustics lab. We're seeing a bit of a mark We're quite interesting in (crane clunks) - [Narrator] The target's (splashing) (crew shouting) But as the net closes in on the fish, the weather closes in on the ship. (dark, foreboding music) (machinery whirs) Unlike the previous trawl, this monster mid-water net will trawl between surface scooping up the free-swimming fish. - This is the bit that's and all these little red that tells us we're catching fish, so everything's looking - It is indeed. (foreboding ambient music) - [Narrator] Menacing clouds A sudden turn in the polar and anyone caught on deck. - Okay? - [Andrew L] All righty, comin' up. Here she comes. (uneasy music) - [Narrator] The wind hits suddenly. Before they can get the net on board, a full gale sends its fury. (foreboding music) - Hauling now, hauling now. (machinery whirring) (clanking) - [Narrator] With the stern ramp open, the angry sea floods the deck. (wave crashes) - [Crew Woman] Whoa. - [Narrator] Waves crashing over the stern can easily sweep a crew member where the cold shock can (crew shouting) But the crew won't abandon the catch. (tense music) The net overflows with silver fish, a very healthy sign. (crewman shouting) (pensive electronic music) - It's one of the most abundant It's eaten by quite a lot of species, so it's important in the food chain. - [Narrator] Among the Andrew spies a lethal predator, most likely feeding when snared. - [Crewman] What's the - Daggertooth. Wonder why it was called that. Stick your finger in his mouth. - [Narrator] This striking find wields a mean set of choppers. - [Helmet Crewman] It's a pretty fish. - Comes up underneath like that, bites down, chomps, reverses, and it severs the spinal chord. It's paralyzing that fish, turns around. (clucks tongue) - [Narrator] The ferocious to the science program. The ship slows down to ride it out. Nature runs the show now, and the team battens down the hatches. - This isn't fun, you know. (idle, electronic music) - [Narrator] Despite the life goes on. A well stocked galley serves those who could still manage Whatever the sea throws at (dishes clinking) Though striding in heavy - [Man] Ooh, that's good. - [Woman] That was good. (wind howls) - [Narrator] At last, the storm passes, costing the crew a day - You might get caught out on (cross-talking) - [Woman Scientist] Make a checklist of-- - [Narrator] Microbiologist involves checking the health of the Southern Ocean's tiniest residents. (soft, murky music) This device collects her water samples. She can remotely open and close the sampling bottles at various depths, from the seabed to the surface. - Okay, we're ready to go, Steve's ready! - [Narrator] Once the the team rushes to retrieve - [Crewman] There we go. - [Man Over PA] Get - [Crewman] Yeah! - As you can see, it's a and the deck crew have bringing it on board in such So we're gonna pull it so that we're out of the and then we'll start taking - [Narrator] She wants to see if increased greenhouse gases in the ocean have any effect on life down here. She'll measure chemicals, and bacteria in the sea. - [Julie] We've got the and going in about 10 different directions for an analysis of nutrients in the water, chlorophyll, phytoplankton. We're also looking at those very, very tiny zooplankton. - [Narrator] Her work in this far off sea may have global implications, but Julie's about to feel the full weight of her isolation from the world back home. (low, uneasy music) Just two weeks into the mission, Captain Leachmen receives an from the New Zealand Police. - The other morning I and the sergeant in Matamata said, &quot;Look, we've got some bad news. &quot;Have you got a Dr. Julie Hall aboard?&quot; And I said, &quot;Yes.&quot; And he said, &quot;Well, &quot;been killed in a gliding accident.&quot; (low, somber music) Anyway, what I did do is got Julie up, and sat her down. It was my (breathes and it's a very, very Said, &quot;I'm awfully sorry, &quot;and your husband's been killed.&quot; - [Narrator] Julie's was also a scientist. He died while competing - He was competing in the and he had an accident and had been killed instantly (water rushes) - I explained that I would do everything in my power to get her home. But the difficulty, of course, of being isolated where we were, there's no guarantee we could get her off. (somber music) - [Narrator] Fickle weather have conspired against Julie. By now, Tangaroa has of any helicopter, and too If Julie has any hope of getting home, Captain Leachman must find a nearby ship able to make the journey. - I had to think about my own situation, how I felt about things, how any decision impacted on but also the impact me leaving would have on the science and the people around me. (low, somber music) - [Narrator] With the and the nearest ship at Julie has to make an immediate decision. Stay with the mission or - And as it turned out, I made - She decided that, really, she was going home to an empty house, and that she didn't want to go home. She was happier where she was. - The strongest reaction of came from people who really and also not really the in terms of being surrounded who were very supportive. (colleagues cheering) - [Narrator] As they edge their way along the Ross Ice Shelf, the wind kicks up an icy spray. Just another summer day in the Antarctic. The temperature plunges and spray freezes on contact. The next Deep Towed Imaging much to the crew's relief. - Such is the life of a sailor. Everything frozen, including us. - [Narrator] And the forecast - [Andrew S] Okay, this that just came in this morning to show us the current state of flight. - [Narrator] The southern faster than expected. Already covering several of - It could be arduous. If this southerly wind continues, the whole thing's gonna freeze up, and it'll be like operating so it's not good. We won't really do much sampling if those conditions prevail. - [Narrator] With the to minus 1.8 celsius, the sea starts to freeze in a spectacular, if alarming, display. It stretches to the and can potentially strand the ship. (low, uneasy music) - Don't like it when it's really thick. I really don't. I'm always frightened (chuckles) - [Narrator] The pancake ice has begun, heralding one of the planet's the freezing of seas around Antarctica. Over winter, the event effectively doubles the size of the continent. The science leaders call an - [Scientist] Good morning, how are you? - Morning all. I think the general consensus is now that we don't go much which is probably a good idea, 'cause looking out the window. - [Narrator] They agree to as long as they can before - 'Cause we're at the of our activities, we're gonna do a DTIS tow, and (churning machinery drowns out crew) (icepick banging) - [Narrator] It's like (machinery drowns out crew) (splashing) (murky, foreboding music) The slushy turmoil on the surface hides the calm waters below. As Antarctica began its deep freeze over 30 million years ago, life here evolved and flourished. Now comes a new challenge. Despite the pristine nature the imaging system shows human intruders. The stills camera snaps a beer bottle. And commercial fishing in the form of a trawler's longline. When the weather allows, commercial trawlers drop to catch toothfish, (brooding music) (machinery whirs) These healthy specimen means more than tonight's dinner special. - [Scientist] Sizable - [Narrator] It's the poster child for good fishing management. Elsewhere in the southern seas, indiscriminate fishing practices its relative the Patagonian toothfish. But stricter Antarctic to have our fish and eat it, too. Christopher Jones hopes it stays that way. - It's the one fish that human beings are having the greatest impact on. We're okay now, but we have if we decide to increase the catch. - [Narrator] This whopper 56.8 kilograms, and still only half the size In once recent summer, the longliners relieved the Ross Sea of 3000 tons of them, while Tangaroa has only (woman and Christopher laughing) There may still be plenty but these scientists are always chasing the one that got away. Besides catching a mammoth toothfish, the team has also collected including the glacial squid. - [Squid Man] That's a lovely Very nice condition, indeed, - [Narrator] Squid and octopus, fragile members of the rich live in every climate and at every depth. They may look bizarre, but they boast the biggest Like any spineless creature, a squid's first instinct to hide, but a cornered one has some like this parrot-like beak or these lethal hooks, But right now, Darren Stevens has snared his catch of the day, an incredibly rare deep water octopus. - This is a lovely it's another one of the dumbo octopus, and a very gelatinous individual. - [Narrator] Only a have ever been found anywhere, and this is the first intact The fact that it came out makes it even more remarkable. (camera shuttering) So far, Darren has collected 26 species of squid and octopus, but he yearns for the big one. This baby colossal squid, can grow up to an Darren hopes to meet its mother. (low, pensive music) Overnight, the imagine too rocky for the bottom trawl net. The situation calls for the smaller, more robust beam trawl. (crane whirs) Instead of the steel doors, a large wooden beam props - Here we go. - Yup. - [Narrator] As the net pulls in, the team eagerly awaits its catch from 1600 meters down. It feel like they've hooked the big one. - Oh, yes. - [Narrator] Perhaps it's - Well, (chuckles) yeah. I heard something go whoomp - [Narrator] Not a squid, - It looks like we might have done a little bit more geologic sampling. - [Woman Scientist] Oh, dear. (woman laughing) (camera shutters) - [Narrator] The deckhands get (boulder clunking) (ramp rumbling) (splashing) - [Andrew L] Where-- - [Narrator] Studying the Captain Leachman finds a - And what we're gonna do is-- - [Narrator] If they leave right away. - [Andrew L] At some from this area through this ice bridge and away to the north. - [Narrator] The way to is to head for warmer waters. And in the southern hemisphere, - Go north, young man. Go north. (machinery whirs) - Bring 'er up and drop those. - [Narrator] As Tangaroa Julie deploys the multiple or MOCNESS. Each tentacle of this MOCNESS monster has snatched plankton and - This is a very important It's come from 3,400 meters, it's the deepest one we've ever done. - [Narrator] Along with known as zooplankton, Lisa spies a tiny deep sea squid, a little gift for Darren, the squid guy. - Is Darren up there? - Darren? - [Phone Man] He says he is. - Tell him we've got a present for him in the plankton lab. Isn't he beautiful? He's in very good condition. You know, we've found and quite often, they're bright No, he's great, and very much still alive. - What have you got for me? - Here you go. - [Lisa] Isn't he cute? - Bathiteuthis abyssicola. You've done very, very well. - Thank you. (strange ambient music) - [Narrator] As Tangaroa the work in the plankton lab goes on. (water pouring) - Ooh. In the MOCNESS net, we collect some of the and sometimes it's come up with those larger phytoplankton - I'm amazed at the It certainly looks quite productive, a lot more productive than I'd But I guess something's got to be there to feed the krill which live down here. - [Narrator] The mid-trawl and Chris gets the smelly job of weighing and measuring It's the only way to calculate how many of these crucial crustaceans - Krill really drive That is, all the land-based predators, the penguins, the seals, the birds, most of the fish species, whales, they're all highly dependent on krill. (blowholes spraying) - [Narrator] The arrival of two - [Woman] Whales, can I just drop it down? - [Crewman] Whales. - Oh, there is he. - [Woman] Whales! - [Narrator] They've come gorging themselves before migrating back to their breeding grounds in the Pacific. (woman laughs) - This is great, it The, (chuckles) the sun is shining, and it's just a beautiful day. The ice is right behind those whales. (blowhole spurts) (serene music) (light splashing) - [Narrator] Emperor penguins also come for the all-you-can-eat buffet. After laying their eggs the females complete and arduous trek from open water to feed the chicks, and krill, one of the lowest becomes a meal fit for an emperor. (penguin vocalizes) 33 days into the expedition, Tangaroa breaks into open water again. (cool, moody music) On the horizon looms Scott These insignificant looking rocks are actually the top of a sea mountain, a volcanic undersea mountain thrust from the bottom of the a deep region known as the Abyssal Seabed. - Yeah, well, these that second set. - [Narrator] Malcolm Clark that thrive on dramatically steep slopes. (monitor beeps) Some creatures prefer a They opt to live on the rocky sea mountain instead of the posh seabed. - So animals that need to like corals, sponges, they're able to latch on, and again, survive where the soft doesn't enable them to survive. The team decides to drop in using the beam trawl, but the seamount is (splashing) (splashing) (crewman shouts) Up comes nothing but the tangled cables of the broken trawl. The wooden beam is smashed in two. - From the DTIS, it looked pretty good, so, no, it was worth a go, and it's just one of the risks we take. - [Narrator] They need to repair it or they're dead in the water. (cross-talking) The crew is optimistic. - It's not gonna take long, I mean, if you give us an hour (blowtorch sparks) - [Narrator] They cut out the tangled wire and splice it back together. And where would a sailor - Practicing the crocheting. - [Narrator] Before long, Having braved ice storms, for almost two months, the team braces itself for the most high pressure They will delve 3,500 meters a depth almost as high as the Swiss Alps. To prepare for the mission, team members perform an decorating polystyrene cups. - Because they've been made when we put them down into the deep, they'll hopefully compress and get smaller and smaller and smaller, and eventually, we hope they'll turn out basically like thimbles. - [Andrew L] We're in - [Narrator] It will endure than we experience every day. (splashing) - [Kareen] These black blotches are-- - They're interesting, aren't they? - [Narrator] Suddenly, the (dark, murky music) It looks barren, like the surface of Mars, but a closer look reveals life. No one has ever witnessed in Antarctica before. Then something goes horribly wrong. (electricity crackles) - We've just lost the video. - [Technician] Yeah, we We're just gonna see what happens. - [Onlooking Scientist] We're - [Narrator] It could or a catastrophic failure. - It just concerns me when you get to that depth You sort of think, oh God, the pressure has broken a seal or something. - [Narrator] They haul and see the problem right away. - [Woman Scientist] Oh, dear. That dripping water out. (chuckles) That's not supposed to happen. Yeah, what's happened is the pressure has been too great for and it's got a hairline crack across it. - [Narrator] Remarkably, the allowing Chaz Mariette to - You can see a crack started to form across the glass lens on and as we scroll through the frames, you can see water starting that's these blurry bits here, and slowly filling up and the lens with water. Evens out across the glass, you can still see all the - Yep, really exciting. - [Narrator] For the rest of the team, the experiment is a crushing success. (idle electronic music) - Here you go. - [Narrator] 300 atmospheres of pressure bearing down equally on all sides have miniaturized them without damage. - Very impressive. (chuckles) - [Narrator] Even the remain in perfect miniature. The team also take the having fed out more than 5000 meters of the repaired cable into the sea. (machinery whirs) The beam trawl finally And after six hours of waiting, the team gets its reward. (wet splattering) 12 buckets of mud and one single fish. But in this mud, lies Like this sea cucumber. - It's hard to see where's That would be, I guess, He's wagging his tail, though. - Now if this doesn't of marine biology, nothing does. (pensive, brooding music) - [Narrator] Kareen has for a better look. - [Kareen] This is the backside of it, and the front of it is which has got these oral tentacles. (music drowns out scientist) - [Narrator] Then Kareen finds an even more curious specimen. - It has something quite which sort of likened it a We don't know how many are down there, we don't know how common this is. I have never seen - [Narrator] Sea cucumbers are walking along the bottom, sucking nutrients out of the mud they eat. The video enables the in all their sluggish action. (camera shutters) Scientists recognize about none of them very attractive, except maybe to a marine biologist. But as the expedition winds down, they'll encounter creatures (still, tentative music) 44 days into the voyage, and the last day of sampling has arrived. (switch clicks) It's also Andrew's 50th birthday. The team has stayed up (idle electronic music) (splashing) (metal clunking) They've conducted 312 sampling deployments at 39 different stations, yet still, a sense of - This is the last bottom - [Narrator] The video shows parasites attached to deep sea rattail fish. The scientists hope the trawl snares one. After a long day's wait, Andrew and the others get With deep trawls, they've come to expect some strange specimens. They are not disappointed. These Abyssal fish have evolved to cope with the crushing pressure down below, but when they're pulled to the surface, their guts blow up like a balloon. - As they've come up, the pressures caused their and blow out their mouths. Unfortunately, it doesn't - [Narrator] And the fish has turned up in the net. - One of these big parasites You can see that thing, it's got a tube, part of it goes in, well (idle electronic music) - [Narrator] Today, Andrew only a biologist could love. An ambush predator with a - And the scientific name named after the hindu These fish have a remarkable much, much larger than themselves, and the whole stomach area This is just a great find. It's the first find for this expedition, first record of this As the mission winds down, the scientists log the (camera shuttering) This snapshot of Antarctic biodiversity will be compared with the (camera shutters) (engines humming) As they head back to New Zealand, Captain Leachman reflects on Tangaroa's 7000 nautical mile journey through one of the most - [Andrew L] Once you've had a touch of it and seen the visibility, seen Mount Melbourne Ah, I mean there's no, words can't describe just It's wonderful. - [Narrator] And would he go again? - Oh! Of course. (water sloshing) - [Narrator] For Julie Hall, is not the one she left, but she has no doubt that was the right one. - I felt that he would and finish the program that I've put so much time Been planning this for over two years, so to walk away would - [Narrator] Andrew scored 88 different fish species. At least five are thought but only a small fraction is still out there. - I think that what we from the Southern Ocean I think in many ways, we've - [Narrator] As these they're proud that their have made this unfathomable (murky, pensive music)