Just about everything you could build box. Whether you're making cabinets or all just variations on the humble box. just getting into woodworking. And boxes with all different kinds of the simple rabbet joint method I use It gives you nice square corners without for Mere Mortals where it's my goal to teach you how to build your own projects tools. You can get started today by shop for under $1000 at mytoollist.com. using regular three-quarter inch lumber Aesthetically speaking, smaller boxes making thinner boards is a topic for this exact box, I've got free plans down this box using this single board. First sides to their lengths. These final two aside for now. Next I want to rip all of of you probably already know when I rip then flip it around and rip it to its up the two pieces that make up the lid all I'm gonna do is shave a little bit together. The secret to edge joining boards is you really tight. Just a real gentle clamping Then you want to look down the edge and it's bending a little bit on this one couple of cauls. These are just boards so that the glue doesn't stick. That Seems kind of silly to use so many these clamps is really important. And you're looking for is a small bead of you've got enough glue in the joint. Okay basically four different methods for use a router table with a straight bit router or a router table. The second blades in your table saw. Some places you have any dado blades, a third solution two cuts. One going this way, and the That method is a little tricky for it. It requires a special dangerous. So what I'm gonna do is the dados using a single blade and just gonna want to do is clamp a board to fence and it'll let you come right in to actual rip fence. The next thing you're down to half the thickness of the board have to be exact but I like to get as on the ends of the two longer pieces so within that rabbet. In other words the three-quarters of an inch the thickness using both the miter gauge and the RIP situation, since it's not a through cut the board. This is a safe method. Never combination if you're going to be cross board because that is just inviting piece right back at you. So again for it's fine to use both. So this is real board and start making cuts advancing stops at the rip fence. One thing people sometimes point out is to make dados and rabbets that you can't left with little ridges. And they do make that purpose. I've never owned one it. I get perfectly fine results with a few ridges in there I can sand those they still hold it just as well. And excited to see how this all goes drive. Now I can change my setup to cut each piece to hold the bottom panel in for these cuts and I will be needing the that's because I'll be doing them kind rabbets. This time I'm gonna start with it further and further away until I get half-inch plywood for my base so I'll that board. I'll make one pass over the fence over a little bit at a time until So when you think you're getting close want to test it against your actual not going too far. So here I can tell could do like half a blades thickness. To get a good fit on that bottom panel fitting all of the side pieces together. makes this process a lot easier. I highly this one for probably fifteen years and hundreds of times I've used it. But if regular bar clamps on the sides. Rather to just make a mark where I need to cut start with so that I can nibble it down The bottom panel will help keep the box like to glue together all the sides and reason I like to use rabbet joints is the glue that makes it a really strong get glue on both surfaces. This one and any glue on that bottom rabbet just yet there. Now I can put the glue in this And like everything else I'm not putting can see how the lid turned out. Nice, now final size but I think I'll wait until measurement. I'm gonna make my lid a little bit lip all the way around. If you want you box. And I'll kind of wrap it on all four this is a free paint stirring stick that sandpaper to and it's really handy for