It's the most requested For a good reason. It's the country's only A distinction they have had for 20 years. Join me as I take you inside one of the A 3 Michelin star restaurant This is De Librije. Welcome to the Netherlands. Where windmills, tulips, and Dutch It's one of the most progressive Known for peace, love, legalization, It has a rich history of business, To list all of the famous Dutch They are known for producing About an hour northeast of Nestled in the heart of this picturesque Stepping inside, we are reminded right Here is an original jail cell door. This is insane, and I'm laughing now, but I'm pretty sure that there was a time when This place is more than just it's also an award-winning hotel. Aside from a few reminders, everything to create an atmosphere of modern elegance. Once upon a time, this restaurant was located in In 2015, they opened a second location, and with all the space left They named the whole thing De Librije. So, it's called The Library Makes sense to me. As any student, chances are they But when you think about it, both This place feels comfortable and cozy. Like a regular living room, with a bit The dining room is in the former prison courtyard and features glass ceilings that Add to it plenty of large plants and when you are actually inside. I never imagined a prison could be so comfortable. This was once a dark place for The whole place is swimming I have visited hundreds of and somehow, they still manage This is one of those places. My wife and I order champagne by the glass. Two dynamic servers come to the table and pour I have never seen anything like it. Everywhere else, they come with one bottle. Here, the procedure is different. I really like it. Shortly after... our first bites. Spring bean, horseradish, young mustard. Followed by asparagus from It contains some liquid so we are And finally a rose, fully The spring bean is really great. The asparagus and the rose look Before we know it, Chef Jonnie Boer is Chef Jonnie grew up in the food service industry. His parents ran a cafe-restaurant one of the coolest places in the Netherlands. It's almost completely free of cars and and centuries-old thatched-roof houses. Growing up here gave Jonnie a deep At age 17, he went to culinary school and then started to build his At age 22, he heard that a restaurant with regional products. He wrote a letter to ask for a job A year after, he was named head chef. Chef Jonnie started to focus with strong importance on ethical In 1992, Jonnie and his wife, They got the first star in 93. The second came in 99 and made Jonnie the In 2004, the restaurant became the second in Then, this building opened up. They bought it and opened a sister restaurant. Soon, it had two Michelin stars. For a total of 5 stars in a 1km radius. In 2015, they moved the sister restaurant This year they celebrate 20 years The sister restaurant in I ate there yesterday and it was really nice. Chef Jonnie is here to answer His 9-course menu is called the Passport of Taste. With two options. The seasonal menu or vegetarian. For 299 euros and 279 euros. We can customize the menu by I will go with the seasonal We receive a little passport to help us understand Who shows up next? The Chef's better half. His wife Therese. She is front-of-house manager as which translates to "Master of In the wine department, there are two For 132 or 299 euros. Looking at the wine list, I see some exciting So I decide to skip the pairing and go freestyle. I see four wines that I want to taste The first is Krug vintage champagne from 2011. I discovered it recently and I Next, a big smoking box arrives. WHAT'S IN THE BOX?! We don't have to wait long. It's a tribute to the suppliers of the restaurant. Every 3 months they choose 3 different suppliers, and make three different Here we have shitake mushrooms grown in A veal head where they use And finally a mature cheese fondue. The mushroom was the most exciting. It was cold but had nice umami flavors. Really good stuff. I was flying high with this dish. I like the veal dish too, and reminded me of a childhood experience. The cheese was nice but just didn't Next is a unique bread service. It's bread made with fermented grains and seeds. Served with a tangy whipped cream made Fascinating combination and cool presentation. Next, a member of the culinary He introduces himself as the Pancake Man and We learn the secret to a light pancake is a small It comes with creme fresh, caviar, and mint. The mint is mild and lets the Next is a beautiful combination of shrimp with It's freshened up with a touch of kaffir lime. Absolutely gorgeous textures and another Coming up next, a permanent fixture on the menu. Langoustine. Here, instead of pan-frying it, Ceviche is a popular dish in Latin America and is basically raw fish or Here it's prepared with and jazzed up with all kinds of herbs Another show stopper. Our other wine is a 2017 I know that 2017 was a good year for Burgundy, and thought this one would blow my mind. But unfortunately, it remained I mentioned it to Therese. She tasted it, agreed, and took it off the bill. Instead, we were treated to a glass It's a serious wine. One of my favorite premier cru so far. It comes from The Pucelles, a famous parcel that Great choice by the sommelier One thing I love to see are nice utensils. The craftsmanship is just breathtaking. Next is a special dish I was recommended to try. It's one of the classic extra It looks like a piece of art. The egg has a special flavor because the We are told to slice it open Really nice delicate flavors and lovely textures. Sorry, but I need to stop the video We're about to hit 300,000 To celebrate, we've got two surprises for you. First of all, we're finally doing a Q&amp;A video! Got questions? Drop them in the comments below this video. I also have a fantastic giveaway for you! One lucky winner will get to choose a restaurant And of course, I'll take care of Sounds fun, right? To enter the giveaway, just follow me and leave a comment "I want to go with you". That's it! The giveaway runs until we Good luck! Then, it's time for a walk. Taking a tour of this amazing facility. In the history room, we see how much this For big celebrations, you can rent this The whole countertop is an induction stove. Gorgeous. Next, we take a look at the herbs and microgreens, where Chef Jonnie is also the gardener. The chef could be doing anything But there he is, standing among the microgreens He could hire someone to do it for him, but probably this is what he loves to do. This is his life. It was truly inspiring to meet him. And then stop by my favorite place. The wine cellar. It's not huge, but it's filled Speaking of, our next wine I was curious to see what a great producer Of course, this was a step back but curiosity is above everything. Next dish we go for a little skate. They look a lot like Stingrays are long, and skates are short. Here we have the cheek of the skate, The base of the sauce is buttermilk. The sauce took this dish and ran with it. There was a hint of spicy and sweet It would have been amazing with anything in it. In terms of service, this place The service team has regular routes and they're constantly observing and checking But here it's an example of how it can be Next is more tableside cooking. This is pike perch in riesling With bacon, crispy potato, and chives. In a beurre blanc sauce with celery. It pays tribute to Jonnie's grandfather, This is the signature dish from 1993 when They decided to bring it This one is super dynamic with a lot happening. But it all works and there is a nice balance here. I was saving the biggest wine for last. The big gun of red wines. This one is a 2020 Romanee Conti Corton. These young bottles are already so beautiful. No more words are needed. It's a really big one. So let's talk about big ones. The global wine industry is worth But fine wines account for As a luxury product, it's a lot like There is an extremely limited quantity. It's the same for a Rolex Panda Daytona. If you want one, you can't buy it To get one, you need to go Driven by pure speculation. That causes prices to skyrocket. The same is true with wine. Romanee Conti made only a few Every major producer sets an allocation, To get on this list, you need to be connected. There is a huge difference between a Wines can be faked more easily. And if they aren't stored properly, they go bad. Something you won't know until you uncork it. That's why buying wine in a restaurant, mostly is a safe option. For me, tasting certain vintages is one of the most exciting things in my life. Often, it's more exciting for me That's why, when I'm at a restaurant, When I see rare or exceptional wines, When I go to a restaurant in the mood for I often skip them and go with Sometimes, I buy more bottle than I can finish. I taste them. Usually, I use a spittoon, and spit them out. I simply want the experience of the And of course, the story itself. Often, I don't finish the bottle. What I do with the remaining wine? Take a guess, and I will tell Our next dish is veal sweetbread, Dutch The chef uses sweetness and acidity very well, which takes the flavors in a This is a classic dish from 2004 that Worth every penny. Duck, red cabbage, and madras curry are next. It's cooked and then cut like a t-bone The jus is made of red cabbage and orange. This dish was excellent and smelled I also enjoy some Asian notes. We have one more classic dish before dessert. This is Epoisses, rabbit Epoisses is a cow's milk and it's known for its strong The smell is so powerful, it's the only Taste-wise, it's super buttery and so We are advised to pop the mix, and try to get all the flavors in one bite. It's super rich and mildly gamey but very nice. Now we are on to desserts. This is an ice cream made of dark It's topped with a foam made with homemade rum This is definitely a combination And it is absolutely mindblowing. Last but not least, our final Blossoms, leaves, and tips. Here we have elderflower Tops of spruce with rhubarb. And finally, blueberries with This is not grandma's apple pie and ice cream. There is a ton of work and a lot Finally, a creative presentation in the petit And that will do it for the Our total for today is just And now my final thoughts on De Librije. This space is amazing. It's elegant and cozy but doesn't Chef Jonnie showed his creativity The service team was attentive and left The owners were friendly and saw my problem with I love this couple and am happy to meet them. When I see such remarkable people, I always think that with their success is inevitable for them. I think, in this case, the 3 Michelin So what I do with the remaining wine? If I have leftover, I leave That's what happened here as well. I left some of Krug and most But this Romanee Conti is just for us. The perfect company for And that does it for this episode. Thank you for joining me, if you See you next time!