Fred Rogers was a legitimate American national Over 31 seasons he proved to be the reliable, who guided millions of youngsters through Fred single handedly introduced children's a medium that was heading downhill fast. His radical kindness, typified by a gentle a world beset by problems. Having Mr. Rogers as our neighbor made the Early Years on march 28th, 1928 at his grandparents house His parents, James and Nancy, were extremely religious household. James worked at the McFeely brick company, He was a hard working, industrious man who Nancy volunteered at the local hospital as She had a deep love for helping others, which In later years, Fred would fondly remember to hand knit sweaters every Christmas for This family ritual instilled in Fred a love during his TV show, Mr Rogers' Neighborhood, Every one of the hundreds of sweaters he wore The extended Rogers family was very close, grandfather. The two spent many hours together, where the expressing all of his feeling and emotions This had a great impact upon Fred, who fondly he made his day special by simply being himself. Those words made Fred feel special, and he people feel the same way. Tough Times a baby girl named Elaine. Fred loved being an older brother, even though Away from the love and security of his family, He found it difficult to make friends, often The other children made fun of the fact that in with their rough and tumble play. As a result he became quiet and shy. His parents told him to ignore the negative focus on positive things. This only made Fred feel more hurt and confused. In his later years one of his key messages to be acknowledged rather than ignored. The outlet that Fred finally stumbled upon When he was just a few years old, Nancy would By five, he was playing it himself. He was a natural and, within a few years was and family members. His act would also include a puppet show. Fred found that these outlets allowed him upset other people. When he was ten, Fred's grandmother bought pump organ. He spent hours each day practicing, with his he felt like he was being his true self. In his early teens , Fred also became obsessed in a basement darkroom. His favorite thing to capture on film were The Rogers family attended the Presbyterian From the very start, Fred was eager and engaged. He was entranced by every sermon, finding and the personality of Jesus Christ. It inspired in him the deep felt desire to An Unlikely Friendship as shy and uncertain around his peers than He did, however,develop a very unlikely friendship. Fred could never have imagined that he would Stambaugh. Stambaugh was a popular and talented athlete When Jim suffered a football injury, however, of weeks. The school assigned Fred to deliver Jim's notes for him in class. Jim and Fred spent time together and come Fred could see through Jim's exterior image Fred's quiet, thoughtful nature. When Jim was released from hospital, the friendship Through Jim's influence, the other students after all. Fred hadn't changed but now the other students From this he learned a powerful lesson that through his TV show decades later - be yourself As a result of his new found acceptance by and bounds. He became involved in school activities, becoming newspaper. By the end of his senior year, he was president He came to be respected, rather than mocked, During his highschool years, Fred developed life. George Allen was an African-American friend As well as sharing Fred's passion for music, He shared his enthusiasm with Fred, teaching While Fred never developed George's passion of imparting his aeronautical knowledge. It was then that he learned what it was to College intention to go to a seminary and become a This seemed to be his natural calling, allowing groomed him. Still, he felt a need to achieve a college to enrol at Dartmouth College for his freshman He decided to study the romance languages. After a year, however, he decided that what Dartmouth had no program that was worthy of College. It was during an initial tour of Rollins College Byrd. Sara became hugely impressed with Fred's a part of her circle of friends. Fred majored in music composition and minored Prior to graduation in the summer of 1951, He still fully intended to attend a theological But everything changed when Fred saw his first On the small screen Fred watched as two men In an instant he saw the potential in this once. At the same time, he was appalled at the lowbrow Fred was so passionate about his desire to that he decided on the spot to give up on a career in television. Getting Into TV music degree in hand, Fred applied to NBC any positions available. He was hired by a producer named Charles Polacheck. Fred moved to New York, full of enthusiasm, minor errands. He experienced the worst in his colleagues, In later years, Fred remembered how one of for forgetting to put sweetener in his coffee. He tried, mostly in vain, to bring a positive Fred's favorite NBC show was Opera Theater. The show collaborated with famous composers nation via the tube. Fred worked his way up to becoming a floor He was in charge of timing the programs, making actors know when to stop and start. His attentive personality allowed him to shine Fred also became floor manager on a handful He came to appreciate the wide variety of One of the shows he worked on was The Gabby He watched and absorbed the lesson as Hayes one person on the other side of the screen. Ultimately though, Fred became frustrated. NBC wasn't showing any interest in moving education. He decided to leave and pursue his passion especially the children. In 1953, Fred and Sara, who he had married station that was opening up in Pennsylvania. It was to be called WQED. They decided that should apply and Fred was WQED was the first community television station Fred saw it as the ideal opportunity to shape A month before WQED was scheduled to go live, would be a valuable addition to the line-up. Fred and a young woman named Josie Carey, up with something. The show they come up with was called The The Children's Corner started out very simply. While Fred worked behind the scenes, Josie On the night before the show aired, station tiger puppet as a good luck charm. Fred quickly dubbed the puppet 'Daniel'. Without telling anybody, Fred positioned himself a painted sheet. As Josie began introducing the first episode 'Daniel' appeared on screen and began The puppet proved to be a hit with audiences the show. Fred was the puppeteer as well as organ player. In order to rush between the set and the organ shoes. The Children's Corner became so successful The show even came to the attention of NBC, When their head of religious programming went and Josie to fly to New York to appear live They returned to Pittsburgh for the Monday The NBC Saturday show now exposed Fred to He began receiving hundreds of thousands of The NBC executives quickly secured Fred and They also had larger more professional puppets NBC put pressure on Fred and Josie to quit But the pair would not relinquish their loyalty to travel back and forth. Despite his gruelling TV schedule, Fred continued degree. He attended the Pittsburgh Theological Seminary, his Masters in Divinity. The most influential course he took was a worked with children to see how they reacted He found that children reacted very differently and would more easily open up and communicate Fred was ordained in 1962. His vocation was to work with children and television. Plans were put in action for a Fred hosted But before it got off the ground, Fred received Moving to Canada in charge of children's programming in Canada. He wanted Fred to come to Canada and put on at children and using puppets and his musical In was a huge risk for Fred and Sara, who But it was everything that Fred had been working to Toronto. But, when he arrived, Fred was shocked to in front of the camera, rather than behind Rainsbury had seen Fred work one on one with to connect with them. Over the next 12 months, the two Freds developed agreeing to appear on screen. The show was to be called Misterrogers as Rainsbury felt that this would make it less The show was set up in a neighborhood with with. A man named Ernie was brought in as the puppeteer. The show was a huge success in Canada. However, after the initial twelve month contract to the United States to be closer to family. Mr Roger's Neighborhood Moving back to Pittsburgh, Fred waited patiently another children's educational program. After two years, during which he held an education for Fred to host his own show on WQED, Mister The show premiered in October, 1966. For the first year it was essentially a rehashing Within twelve months, however, the format up by the Sears Company as a major sponsor, Fred wrote the theme song that was to become The revamped show also added more characters, Each episode Fred would go out of the studio The second national series, in 1969, rolled In the third season, the show, which had become Broadcasting Service or PBS. The first run of Mister Roger's Neighborhood seasons and four hundred and fifty five episodes. By then Fred was ready to take a break, and But Fred was still busy. Ever the perfectionist he took the opportunity older episodes. New original seasons of Mister Rogers' Neighborhood Between then and 1993, fifteen new episodes together and carrying through one overall The huge popularity of the show was due to He never acted, always striving to be genuine His main method of teaching was through his grew up with him. The show would start with Fred talking directly Then it would transition to a field trip, Then it would be back live where Fred would This was a whimsical place where the characters scenarios. Then Fred would move out of the Neighborhood in the neighborhood that day. From start to finish the emphasis of the show and exploring feelings. Fred was not afraid to discuss any topic that and death. In addition to these 'heavy topics', Fred the world around them and keeping their curiosity In 2001, Fred retired at the age of 71, after five episodes of Mister Rogers Neighborhood. The show was officially over, but Mr Rogers reruns. A Life Beyond TV Although best known for his landmark TV show, into other work as well. He was involved in the children's book business, documentary style features. The most well known of these was series called For the show, Fred travelled all over the Fred authored a total of thirty six children's of going to the hospital to potty training. Fred's passion for children's education In 1971 he founded a non-profit organization He also made his voice heard on a national issues. In 1969 he appealed to a group of senators cutting funding to PBS. Largely as a result of his efforts, the funding In 1984, he was called as an expert witness Studio. The case was about the new Sony technology the video recorder. This new technology threatened Hollywood and the grounds of copyright. Fred testified on behalf of Sony, stating able to tape his show for later watching together. Sony won the case. Death and Legacy A year after his official retirement from cancer. His last public appearance was when he tossed A few weeks later he underwent surgery to It was unsuccessful and Fred went home to He died on February 27th, 2003, surrounded Fred's passing was mourned around the world. But it was felt the hardest in his native His memorial was held there and was attended PBS took steps to help children to come to They continued to air reruns and a special Neighbor was hosted by Michael Keaton. During his lifetime, Fred had received many Freedom. In 1999, he was inaugurated into the Television in the Smithsonian Institute as a 'treasure The greatest legacy of Fred Rogers is the The lessons he imparted - of tolerance, compassion, as they were when Mister Rogers Neighborhood to air in the 1960's.