This is China, and this is China, yet the degree far surpasses that of many, perhaps even most village into one of the world's wealthiest of British Colonial rule, the 27 years since to blunt the full totality of its anomalies from that--and fast. This is proving challenging. different to the mainland as it can be. North in Hong Kong, they drive on the left. Hong strongest in the world, in fact, with visa-free only get relatively weak Chinese passports Hong Kong has unrestricted access to the entire and censored in the entire world. In fact, Hong mainland residents are not even allowed to and being granted a permit, whereas the countries can visit without any visa or permit--it visit the city than Chinese people. side--the general, international flair to Hong Kong's traditional tea is closer to on milk--uncommon in traditional Chinese cuisine of ethnic Chinese. There's also the ever-present tart, ubiquitous across the city's bakeries and sum restaurants in the rest of the world. With exposure to Westerners, access to international of one, is far more similar to places like But Hong Kong's distinction goes deeper than that. the very core of its legal and political system. structure just about as fundamentally different meanwhile, is a free-market, capitalist economy on English law. With the handover of Hong Kong enshrined into Hong Kong Basic Law--in broad the status quo of democracy, capitalism, and So in the era since the handover, you have a autocratic country oversees a capitalist, incompatibility that the pair have increasingly in 2019 when the Hong Kong government proposed It was called the Fugitive Offenders and Mutual The law was born out of a murder, as a 19-year-old admitted to doing as much, but then couldn't no formal extradition agreement between Hong Kong the pro-Beijing party, the Democratic Alliance presented some changes to the law: that special case-by-case basis to any jurisdiction, regardless Kong. While this would only apply to 37 specific piracy to offenses involving the unlawful use public as a serious concern. Now, it seemed, whisked away from their western-style courts and China's. For people with such a cultural it seemed like another slide toward Chinese The protest began in earnest here, well before it the Central Government Complex. Then, the movement then, a month after that, a crowd that organizers against case-by-case extradition toward the protest in five years, the bill, and its most maintained that the extradition rules were that followed, the protests continued to that reached global headlines and ranked as the Carrie Lam gave in and withdrew the legislation. effectively striking down Hong Kong legislation also served as justification for another legal balance between eastern and western influence in and it was annexed, in its entirety--all 162 to zero. This criminalized acts that or efforts of secession from China, or terrorism justified by the protests, but critically, law didn't have to clear Hong Kong legislation, People's Congress, then signed by Xi Jinping--an laws on the supposedly autonomous Hong Kong. similar security legislation had been presented officials, and it was subsequently dismantled pandemic that had Hong Kongers assembling in wake of what China viewed as a secessionist the nation took legal reform into its own hands. bar association protested, the western world the streets were quiet. Unlike during Hong Kongers didn't take to the streets, they universities. Rather, when reporters asked about one by one, organizers and activists focused their but getting themselves and their families out of up a path to citizenship for Hong Kongers well over a hundred thousand opted to move thousands more opted to move elsewhere. For could ever return to what it was before. true, full democracy with universal suffrage. For Hong Kong was essentially ruled outright by the of the British monarchy. But in the 1980s, closer and closer to universal suffrage--where the territory experienced its most representative today, that has started to regress as Beijing Now, Hong Kong's elections system quite literally world. But much of it stems from what's called body who votes for the Chief Executive--the head convoluted and has changed with each of the last of the positions were just directly appointed--the Chairperson of the Drinking Water Safety Advisory Advisory Board, for example, each automatically But the vast majority of seats were themselves In 2016 there were 38 of these each representing financial sector with 18 seats, another even one representing religious interests with itself has a different way of determining like the education constituency, allow for and many higher-level administrative staff vote on who they send to the committee, and appointed as Chief Executive of Hong Kong. committee seats were voted upon by organizations any registered bank that has been operating working at the banks, the banks themselves. Yet the eligibility criteria is simply just a list vote in this constituency, and that's how Gate catering company, ends up with the right to vote the most powerful politician in the territory. fact that the head of the government was voted on residents of the territory, would be enough to of the composition of this voter-base to begin into the so-called pro-Beijing and pro-Democracy control by the central government, then there's democracy for Hong Kong. These functional committee, consistently skew more towards the For example, in the 2012 legislative council general public in geographic constituencies, while constituencies. The pro-Democracy camp actually seats--winning 18 to their 17. But considering constituency seats, 26 to pro-Democracy's 9, the the legislative council--as they have in But something changed in late 2019. In the midst the territory held its District Council Unlike the territory-wide legislative council or District Council seats were directly elected camp showed up in force. For the first time ever, colossal 388 of 452 seats--an absolutely massive legislative council and Chief Executive elections Beijing decided it needed to make some changes if China's National People's Congress--which itself but in a process almost entirely controlled 2021 to reform the composition of Hong half of the seventy seats were directly elected elected by the functional constituencies. But twenty directly elected by the public, thirty then another forty elected by the election members voted in by the functional constituencies. the people and towards the historically But that was far from the full extent of the perfect history in voting in a pro-Beijing chief the strongest block of support for pro-democracy constituencies made up of people, rather constituency, made up of 85,000 teachers, one of the few pro-democracy constituencies. filled by these functional constituencies made some by four times. Meanwhile, the number of seats about the same, while they also added more than by someone already in another position, in this If that wasn't enough, all candidates for Kong now had to be approved by a candidate criteria and has absolutely no mechanism that decides among other things who can run for are directly appointed by the Chief Executive. camp, which just years ago was able to win path towards any position of power. China has system that claims to represent the will of the control over to the central government. system, there is now also a widespread trend of functionally, and culturally--with the mainland. the peninsula to both Macau, another autonomous of the Estuary. This was considered by many a there was already a reliable and popular network and road traffic between both territories and drive on the opposite side of the road a vehicle across the border requires a separate and approval by the neighboring Chinese But a far more practical connection station in 2018. This connected Hong Kong meaning one can now travel non-stop well over a Shanghai in about eight hours. This was also without a long wait at the border, mainland the station itself. This meant that mainland most problematically to supporters of Hong force after the immigration checkpoint, Hong Kong within West Kowloon Station and on the stipulating the autonomy of Hong Kong's legal have now been instances where individuals have while physically in Hong Kong, but after clearing Beyond the increasing physical connection with intangible alignment with China. This is not of Hong Kongers are ethnically Chinese--but as coming at the expense of maintaining Hong the newly opened half billion dollar Hong Kong Palace Museum, and focuses on educating the But they've been very careful to phrase it as even if in function it could be either. Critics forced through by Beijing as a form of cultural its construction without any consultation critics say this is a violation of the rules COVID was another example of alignment with to align its prevention measures with Beijing's policies. After all, not doing so would act as which is not a realistic option for Hong Kong's the later years of the pandemic, this served as a Westernized city had become. Throughout 2022, 21-day quarantines for arriving passengers, vaccine passports for access to most of the western world got back to normal in Ultimately, Hong Kong's strictness, borne out of both worlds. The city had an extremely high COVID and far higher that most of the Asian continent. Kong's closest equivalent, did not see the same. one in 2,800 people. In Hong Kong, though, 13,516 policy was far less strict. It opened its borders and was devoid of almost all visible restrictions midst of its strict zero-COVID policies. direct competitors. They both portray themselves east and west, with high English proficiency, services and other important institutions. And is home to the Asian headquarters of Apple, Microsoft, Boeing, and plenty more while Hong Prudential, Estee Lauder, and more, but the nature of multinational enterprise in Asia. chosen as the best city for western companies reflected by the fact that Hong Kong barely has has consistently chosen the city-state to the they're also just simply losing business. the highest profile headquarters moves from Hong have selected elsewhere. The New York Times, for while LVMH--the luxury goods conglomerate and dozens more brands--opted to move up to businesses with regional headquarters in Hong Kong count since the year 2000, and a similar trend Since 2018, Hong Kong's economy has been 5.8% in five whole years. Over the same span, Hong Kong's historically red-hot property tourism figures have been terrible, 2010s. Hong Kong is just not what it once was. it's losing what made it unique. The destinations Shanghai is certainly the city best-suited to it makes sense the companies that want to further there. Singapore, meanwhile, has effectively It is tremendously cosmopolitan--at times continent--and yet it still has high exposure and Singapore also runs on a western legal system, and also runs as a democracy--although also an Singapore is, of course, its own country. It is the world and China as Hong Kong. It is therefore Hong Kong is changing fast, and when a company is dollars to build a headquarters, fast change is State, Treasury, Commerce, and Homeland Security about the growing risks in operating in Hong Kong. and businesses placed by the new National Security and that there could be challenges with access the freedom of the press in the territory. And multinational companies rely on the ability to in Asia, and there's a significant number of that is increasingly influenced by Beijing. what Hong Kong uniquely offers. There's the option city with direct access to mainland China, and and familiarity. The city is just consistently It's tough to know what Beijing's end-game central government as it's difficult for western and legal system, so the city almost acts as economy and the western capitalist one. This into the country while simultaneously to maintain their brand of socialism. and the other autocratic leaders in China This has been demonstrated by the Tiananmen by the censorship of media--the instinct is to rather than confronting its cause. But in In a democratic Hong Kong, therefore, there will long term, one country, two systems was never the future the world will look back on Hong Kong destruction of a once-great city out of Rather than do a traditional ad-read here at for the new show me and my team made called a bit of a twist in this trailer, so it's worth The Getaway where these six creators are taking a great American West. The problem... there's a Snitch The Gamer? Am I 1,000% sure I am not the Snitch? say to change your mind? The Therapist? You guys The Card Counter? I'm not-- I'm not throwing shade to do it-- Steven! The Finance Guy? This Snitch and I worry. The Political Scientist? I Snitch. You really never know. Sure. Okay. What am I? Alright, nice. Ohh yeah. Snitch. like shows that have, you know, a sabotage have a saboteur. Okay. Alright. I have this series. There's even the ones that have a couple I don't bel... It's Boston. Boston was never the have everyone as the saboteur. And we thought are there two Snitches here? We got-- We gotta run! you know... That's a great--Oh, that's gonna make You can watch the Getaway to Nebula.tv/Wendover to sign up and you'll even cost down to just $2.50 a month. With that you'll Originals made by creators you probably already videos early and ad-free, and you'll be helping