- Your last partner, I never met him, but I hear he left some - Let's get one thing straight. You're never gonna fill Jimenez was a good Fill Jimenez's shoes? The tip of your dick Crazy, crazy Does his crazy Look at this mess. Makes me sick. - There's no way to stop It seems like no some innocent fool is and we're always gonna We're never gonna find - Tell that to his widow. (dramatic music) - And we're always going We're never gonna find (woman sobbing) (dramatic music) - It's a weird one. Nothing out of place, - And no motive. There's just a couple - The proof is always You just have to know - Excuse me, sir, this is a crime scene- He's the greatest sex crime If it isn't Detective - Detective Sally Ferguson. - [Sally] We could use - Tom Samuel. - What have we got, Samuel? - Well, Vaughn, we've got All we've got is- - Two bodies. Both dead, naked, one man, Two scented candles - How did you- - No sign of forced entry. He loved the way they smelled. He wanted to cross the on their wedding day. You dirty dog. He would have experienced (pants unzip) Anniversary, the couple wanted to spice things up. Check the date on - Vaughn's right, today was This is huge! - And, what the You just pulled your dick out and started jerking - Samuel, he's By putting himself in the he's able to solve Bag this up. - Some call it a blessing. It's more like a curse. - Is that what it feels like? (sniffing) - Threesome. You wanted to see You wanted to watch. 25 feet from the bedroom, You didn't wanna see No, he stood right here. (pants unzip) - [Samuel] Oh, come on. (Vaughn groans loudly) - Role play gone - We've got a bloody fire poker! We've got our murder weapon! - Why do your revelations - Why do kittens require milk? - No, not the same thing. - Hey, hey! He's the most brilliant Put your ego aside and - My ego! We've got Captain Pant Puller flinging his fluids all - Wait, he knew them. They were close, so He, he... I think he knew the house. Why? What did you want, You wanted to see what he Closer. He was close to home. (dramatic music) There's our man. - All right, let's Go, go! - Vaughn, that was amazing. I'm sorry that I doubted you. Your methods are unorthodox, but I cannot argue - No hard feelings? - No, not gonna do that. (dramatic music) Johnny. Okay, Carter. I can stay here all night. So why don't you and I cut what happened on March 15th. - And what's in it - What's in it for you is I (suspenseful music) (sighs) - The guy's name I met him downtown at a club You may have heard of it. It's down on the corner - Cat Branchman. So what's a guy like you (suspenseful music) Okay, I know what You're just using what - I'm not Detective, - We'll see how after a few weeks in - Fine, detective - That's better. - The guy's name It was a Chinese He's the real gang boss. Story went he hung and took pictures of them. - Finley. - Used to run a club downtown. The front of course, called - Finley! - Ran it with a guy - Okay (suspenseful music) Let's try this one more time. Finely, who do you work for? - Coffee, Mr. Coffee Coop. - Coffee Coop? - His name was Baldy - Now you're just Finely, I'm gonna give Who is in charge? - His name was Angryman. The warehouse is for being a detective. - I want a name. - Justin. - Thank you. - Hangtree. - Don't say hang. Goddammit, do not say hang. - Hang. - Nope. - Hangman Justincat. - Finely! - Poster. - Do not say poster or cat. - Cat poster. - Okay, that's it. I'm losing my patients. Winslow, get this (suspenseful music) I'm losing my patients. Let's try this one more time. Getting too old for this (beep) (suspenseful music) - Well played detective. Well played indeed. - Hey Carter, you hang in there. (dramatic music) Hello, you must be I am your new You last partner, I never met him, but I hear to fill. - Let's get one thing straight. You're never gonna fill Jimenez was a good man. Better cop. Fill Jimenez's shoes? The tip of your dick - I'm very sorry if I'm sure Jimenez - The best! - Okay. So these prostitute murders, seems like a serial killer. - Could be. - I actually worked - I don't give a hobo's You think Jimenez like some kind of a Not on your ass. Jimenez always shot You think you're Jimenez? - Absolutely not. You're goddamn - I just said I'm- - Jimenez would in the time it'd take you to itsy-bitsy, teeny weenie, Two daughters raising You want that job, huh? Mr. Babydick? - What is going on? - You wanna be their daddy? - No. You know what, I think we - Not Jimenez. Jimenez got off every goddamn day That's more than I can say for - [Joshua] What? - Jimenez wanna be? - I can assure you I - Why not? What's wrong with Jimenez? - There's nothing - Then why wouldn't you - I don't know, you said- - Smurf pecker! - Okay, I'm out. I can't make this work. (dramatic music) - Jimenez would've made it work. (dramatic music) Come back from (dramatic music) (snaps) - First things first, I do not care that you're rapper, Gun Rack. What I care about that you murdered So, you better start talking. (suspenseful music) - Yeah, but you - You know, I'm actually Because I respectfully, I killed Darnell Yeah I shot him with my nine I shot him nine times 9:00 pm on the dime And by the way it (suspenseful music) - That don't mean nothing. I got a vivid imagination. I couldn't have shot Darnell, I was at my cousin's Red Lobster, November 9th. - At Red Lobster? - [Gun Rack] Mh-hm - Geez, I gotta I find that really I got an alibi Birthday, Red Lobster When in reality I shot It's a lie Anyone can tell this If you know about my Just confess, Gun Rack. - I confess that shellfish that rhymes with (indistinct) It's just words. Thought that they're They just happen to but, you ain't got no proof. Shot up Darnell And tossed it in I have no idea what If I had to Identify it of the long ass variety. Some seaweed in there too. Look, Detective, I hate I ain't kill nobody. Stroke my chin real And I was laughing super - The name of the album is - It's a concept album. - A concept? That's a picture of And behind you is (suspenseful music) - Coincidence. - You're going away for a You're gonna confess, if it's you hear me, Gun Rack? I'll beat it outta you! - I'll beat it outta you! - He's free to go. - What, no, no, no, no, no. We have everything we need. - No, it was She just confessed Infidelity, crime of passion. Let's go Mr. Rack (suspenseful music) Bonus track, bonus track I got a ride or die bitch And when you let me out I'm This is my confession Admissible in court I killed Darnell That's right, I'm a And if you come down - [Gun Rack] Okay, okay, Hey, whoa, whoa, whoa! Damn, damn, damn, chill, ow, ow! (banging)