- Did you know that. - With this VPN, you can protect yourself from all hackers trying to - What? Who told you that? That's crazy. - Hackers can set up fake access points. They're able to sniff out steal it, and you get ripped off. - That's not entirely true. What I was going to say was that. - [Announcer] Without a VPN, your internet browsing data cellular provider, ad - All right, would you just stop? This is getting ridiculous. - [Narrator] I use ExpressVPN because it keeps my information anonymous. - NordVPN. - ExpressVPN. - ExpressVPN. - Okay, okay, okay, that's enough. You need to understand this. There are good reasons to or a VPN, and I'll share but judging by all of the content you'll read or watch online, you'd be forgiven for thinking is the ultimate solution to every hacking and security problem we Welcome to All Things Secured. My name's Josh and my goal here is to First, the security you the legitimate reasons to use a VPN. And finally, the things 'cause let's face it, there's a lot of confusing information about Virtual Private Networks. And if you watch through not only will you have of what a VPN can do for you, I'll also share with you the number one threat to that no VPN can protect you from. So to help us sift through let me share with you about your internet connection right now even if you're not using a VPN. One, your ISP or Internet Service Provider can broadly see which websites you access. So while it may not know exactly which YouTube video they can know that you accessed YouTube. Two, HTTPS is now an internet standard. All this military grade marketed by tech companies is present in more than 85% of If you see the padlock your internet traffic is Three, despite this encryption, our browsing activity is being tracked by more companies than you might realize. Using tools like cookies, the Chrome browser and well, cookies. Four, your device is wherever you get online. This IP address provides information about your geographic location which is how online streaming in specific countries or locations. Five, our security and Sure, we can encrypt our data in transit, but what about your login information that gets stored on target servers or our credit information When we give them our data, and sometimes we don't even have a choice, we're trusting that And that's usually not under our control. You have to trust somebody. You're either trusting your ISP, the owner of the Wi-Fi or if you're using a VPN, the VPN company. It's virtually impossible So how does a VPN help in Well, let's lay the groundwork here by discussing what a VPN does well. What are the legitimate reasons you might want to use a Well, the most common use is to combat censorship. I used to live in China where the government blocks everything from Facebook, Twitter, Gmail, Wikipedia, the New York times. And dare I say, even YouTube. A VPN is the perfect tool to bypass this kind of state censorship Along those same lines, a VPN is a good tool for location spoofing which basically allows and make the internet think The most common use case here from major networks or on platforms like Netflix, Disney Plus, Hulu, Pandora and others. For example, I'm here in Thailand where Disney hasn't yet By connecting to a VPN and paying for my Disney subscription fee, I can access this geo restricted content as if I were in the US. Ironically, the last is actually what it was for encrypting data. As I said earlier, internet security has already And when you're accessing something like your bank via HTTPS, a VPN doesn't make that it just acts as a safety net. The only exception worth mentioning here is that a VPN does Remember when I told you that can see what websites you're accessing even if they don't know what Well, a VPN will hide that your university, or doesn't know anything So really all that talk about a VPN protecting you from hackers and offering military grade encryption. I mean, it's a half-truth. I think there is value in for those who are at a but for most people it's And before I forget, let me be clear about what a VPN does not do. And you may hear what I'm about to say and think it was completely unnecessary. But trust me, these are questions that in my email inbox. First, a VPN isn't an internet connection. You have to connect to the internet, whether that's on your cellular network, your home network or public Wi-Fi, and then you connect to a VPN. Second, a VPN isn't a that will let you do whatever while you're connected. Every commercial VPN company claims they don't keep but they have no So don't do it. Finally, a VPN doesn't protect I mean, some providers have but that's not inherent feature of a VPN. A VPN is a tunnel that can including viruses and malware being delivered to your device. And that's the perfect that I'm glad you've stuck around to hear. As my friend, Ron White - You can't fix stupid. - The biggest single threat and privacy is not it's not viruses or If you're not aware of if you're not skeptical and every link in every email, and no antivirus software is Before you succumb to that might lead you to purchase this kind of software, know this. You can avoid more than 80% of the problems people face and privacy by just using common sense. I mean, things like turning on two factor authentication, monitoring your credit and identity, and especially being skeptical of every inbound email and If you've made it this far please take a moment to browse through some of the videos that I've linked to in the description below that will help you do all Subscribe to this channel if you're interested in more of online security topics like this. I hope it's been helpful, thanks.