(soft music) (light chiming) (crowd cheering) (eerie ambient music) (synth music) - [Nexpo] I have discovered of Local 58. (eerie ambient music) A VHS archive of an Animal Education, Storm Artificial Intelligence, and are among the topics of short, educational VHS guides. Tonight, we will envelop ourselves within this [a t r o c i t y] This is Gemini Home Entertainment. (computer clicking) (soft music) (static hissing) (man screaming) (knocking on door) Oh yeah, I'm digging this. (soft music) On our plate tonight is by an internet creator named Remy Abode, birthed from an alternate Containing events stemming the hope for a brighter future, Gemini Home Entertainment is a video distribution company ready to take you on an educational of life knowledge. What that knowledge is, exactly, is unclear at this point in time, but what we do know, is that out of place. Something isn't right here. The series was birthed and since then has built up to a total of 16 videos, each with and each giving us a different piece of the puzzle as to what's happening within this world. The guides appear to be presented in a VHS anthology format, a far cry from the silent onlooking and broadcast interruptions Whoever's behind Gemini and everything within each Tonight on our plate, we World's Weirdest Animals, The Deep Blue, Artificial Our Solar System, Camp Information Video, Lethal Omen, Wilderness Survival Guide, Sleep Image Visualizer, Games for Kids, Advanced Mining Vehicle, Monthly Progress Report, Home Invasion Help, Crusader Probe Mission. Because there doesn't of established timeline here, order of their release date. If you can't tell, we've so pop open those Lunchables and grab that Crystal Pepsi, we're about to dive This, my friends, is (dramatic music) (soft music) World's Weirdest Animals. (ominous music) The video opens by showing us strange and wacky wildlife that of Minnesota, like prairie chickens and burrowing owls. The overall pacing and layout of the video are pretty simple, with the names of the animals being presented alongside a couple of facts, all over some (upbeat music) The overall tone changes to the three minute mark. Contrary to the prior animals, the habitat for the one upcoming is And if that weren't strange enough, music is nonexistent merely leaving us with And so, the next animal up is something called a Woodcrawler. For the next couple minutes, the video explains a bit more about them, like the fact that they're are excellent hunters, do and prefer the homes of large families for nesting. Apparently they &quot;adapt&quot; to this residential environment, although it's unclear (static hissing) So, right in the middle of episode one, we get a brief glimpse of what we can assume to be a Woodcrawler. It appears to be some sort of long-legged creature, and I've got a funny feeling much larger than a human. Curiously, the video of a paradox, claiming that but &quot;they stole their voices&quot;. If we're assuming that the victims of these so-called then it leaves us wondering what exactly they're doing to them. Lastly, I find it interesting was described as &quot;Nature's mockery&quot;, as that term could be interpreted in a couple different ways. Are Woodcrawlers ridiculing of nature and how life or are they some kind of absurd imitation of human life? I could be way overanalyzing but, I'm just curious why that's there, considering how unnatural (static hissing) In this next scene, we're outside of that same house at night. It's hard to make out, but we can notice people inside of it this time. Why? (static hissing) (camera thudding) Yeah, those aren't people are they? (eerie ambient music) So, with their bizarre, with the caption claiming it's clear that Woodcrawlers They imitate them. This effectively establishes as their method of &quot;adapting&quot;, somehow involves and conforming, to the best of their ability, to natural human life. As we've seen, though, their They're incredibly tense, and when faced with an outsider that isn't one of their kind, they attack them. They're an absurd imitation of the human form, a (upbeat music) Storm Safety Tips. (soft music) Brought to you by a Harbinge of this video is to help keep you and your family informed on of a major catastrophic storm. The steps outlined are pretty cut and dry, with the first being by improving structural support, and fixing leaks. Step two advises that you install an early warning system, Harbinge Technologies makes. According to the video, this Albedo Alarm will warn you ahead of time if a storm or other danger is approaching your home. Interesting. I wonder what that could be? The third step involves which should be, precisely, The tape then advises us foot wide aluminum hemisphere and to place their Timbre We're given no further context But it should. (soft music) This next segment explains It's first advised to take followed by powering on our Timbre radio, and remaining calm. Oddly, when these steps are appear below each one to the table in terms of instruction. Rather, it tends to inflict the viewer with doubt, with claims like to you now&quot;, &quot;ignore all They're auditory hallucinations&quot;, and &quot;your tears are filled with salt&quot;. If we took these statements away, we wouldn't be losing out on anything which makes me wonder why its there, and who the hell wrote it. (soft music) (static hissing) (static hissing) (static hissing) (eerie ambient music) (soft music) (soft music) Listen, under your feet, It seems that this line is which leads me to isn't the type we know of This, combined with immediate in the field, alongside to the bunker if we see them, makes it appear that Woodcrawlers and whatever's emitting these lights are perhaps the same creature. With this in mind, this leaves us to wonder exactly this storm entails? How often does it happen, and most importantly, why is it happening? (dramatic music) (upbeat music) Deep Blue. (soft synth music) (soft music) Created by a Gyneva Production of this one is simple. Lighthearted education about of the deep blue sea. Towards the latter half of the video, we cut to a The Mariana's Trench is foreboding hole in the ocean floor, described as the deepest place on earth. Following this, we can introducing an even deeper and more ambiguous region of the ocean called the Demisia Tunnel. And ominously, the depth here is unknown. (soft music) (static hissing) (eerie ambient music) (eerie ambient music) (eerie ambient music) (eerie ambient music) (static hissing) (eerie ambient music) Nothing can live inside The same, however, can't be Taking what we know so far about Woodcrawlers, and the connection to them I'm led to believe that a full body shot of one of them. With this, we become aware of their ability to exist and beneath the extreme pressure of the ocean floor, cementing them as a that humans, by all accounts, (soft music) (soft synth music) Regnad Computing, huh? (ominous music) This next entry involves a new, state-of-the-art AI tech showcase. The overview explains that for about four years, and Curiously, this is the only tape so far to start off with absolutely no music, which I found notable considering the music stops when an ominous revelation is about to happen. The AI showcase is laid out in the form of short stories. Each iteration spans four lines of text, and as we progress through this video, we'll find that what starts off as unintelligible, quickly morphs into something we're (static hissing) (computer beeping) (ominous music) As expected, this first We can gather an overall idea of what it's trying to convey a Secret, Death, and Iteration two expands on this a bit, and reads the following: Mary followed close behind. They're searching for the secret place. I hear you. And with Iteration three: There goes Mary down the stream. The secret place will keep us safe. The river flows but not with water. (static hissing) (computer beeping) (eerie ambient music) (eerie ambient music) (ominous music) Alright, so that was a lot to take in. Those last two iterations original story, formulating a narrative with tons of clues to pick apart. The story here surrounds two We can assume that leaping over a river to It's unclear what this secret place is, but for now, we can assume it In iteration four, we get references to a so-called &quot;voice from space&quot;, and in that same story, has become something else. This &quot;something else&quot; of the hungry eye that's however by this point in of what exactly that is. Something else I found At the beginning, we're told we're going to explore three iterations In reality, we received five. This leaves us with two Either an external party had tampered with the video or this computer, or this AI is somehow advanced enough to make decisions on its own. Personally, I'm led to believe the former, and this is why. As we can see, the structure of these stories takes During iterations two, four, and five, however, we of text that address either us, or Jack, in the first person. And after stringing these together, we gain an interesting result. I hear you. Jack, do you see me? I have become something else. Do you see the hungry eye? Here I am. With this context, I want you to that last iteration once more. (computer beeping) There is some sort of voice coming through the broadcast. It's extremely muffled, however it's clear that something is either interfering, or feeding information to this AI. And personally, I'm led She and Jack are not just They're actual people, and I'm going to infer that the story presented actually happened. Moving on. Towards the video's end, into two diagrams. Given the references and the moving stars, I'm led to believe that these two circles represent planets. The larger appears to be the hungry eye, being denoted as alive, with intent. It seems to be hyperfocusing which we can assume to be Earth, and in the second diagram, we can observe the effects Somehow, it's projecting some sort of vessel down to Earth, and once it makes contact, it mutates into the creatures It's clear that there's and there's a lot of context so let's press on to see (soft music) (soft music) When we shift gears to Our Solar System, we're able to learn a few facts A diagram greets us, encompassing Earth, Mars, Jupiter, After learning facts and Venus, we then make our of the only planets in of supporting life. (soft music) (static hissing) Upon making our way to Jupiter, the video highlights it's big red spot. It claims that it's not an eye. It is an open wound. We then observe Saturn. The outer portion of its ring is absent, and it's denoted as (soft music) (eerie ambient music) (static hissing) (ominous music) The Iris is new. It is with us now. Laughing at us. It's clear that the of Woodcrawlers, but the Iris, which has somehow caused neighboring Neptune to mutate. What exactly that means at but if I were to guess, of breeding ground for by solar storm. Due to its presence, and Saturn are beginning of its influence, and given the story so far, it's safe to conject that (soft music) (soft music) (light acoustic guitar music) Tape six changes gears a bit. Here, we're introduced campground named Moonlight that's completely isolated The tape showcases its many accommodations and activities, including hiking and their flagship which is oddly denoted as a harvest. Afterwards, we're able to catch a glimpse of their various structures. Among these are burrow-free and even their original rustic cabins for those feeling a bit more outdoorsy. Each of these are beautifully decorated to ensure your stay is and you can rest easy in place in case a Just be absolutely, (knocking on door) Do not answer the knocking at the door. (crickets chirping) (eerie ambient music) Around three minutes into the video, we're introduced to the Allegedly back in the 1930s, strange, well-dressed men would to enter the admins cabin Apparently, one night, a and they left, never to be seen again. Following this, we get a mention of Skinwalkers, that during the same time period. For those unaware, Skinwalkers are a type of shapeshifting humanoid creature that's able to inhabit the form of any animal they desire. It's unclear if they're of Skinwalker within but, with what we know about Woodcrawlers and how they function, I (crickets chirping) (eerie ambient music) (knocking on door) (soft music) (eerie ambient music) (door creaking) (eerie ambient music) Adam Levitch, Barry Bethany Newman, Alec Davison, and Dorothy Bates, are listed as vessels. Carriers of something, that isn't good. It's clear to us that the knocking was coming from Woodcrawlers, and given the photo of them, we're able to finally establish a scale for how gargantuan these creatures can be. I'm going to conject that in World's Weirdest than the ones we're seeing While we're currently unsure of what their lifespan is, we know that this one surely Given the campground's mythology, with the stories about the with so-called Skinwalkers in the 1930s, this implies that these creatures have been here for decades. But this leaves us to wonder and how they've upheld the status of mere campground mythology for so long. We know the original likely being killed or and resulting in the but where have they been since then? What is clear is that Now advertising burrow-free cabins and having a clear awareness of these creatures existing, someone gave it the green light. But who? (soft music) Wilderness Survival Guide. (soft music) In this one, a man named Jack Wylder is gonna teach us about wildlife. Fitting name, and familiar. The video opens informing us about various safety measures We learn which equipment to bring, and are then presented with various natural like thorns, ditches, various animals, and what to do if we with a bear. (soft music) There's our skinwalker. So we now know that and inhabit the bodies of humans, but animals too. Interesting. Following this section, we're greeted with numerous florae and their impacts on humans. Among these, are poison ivy, which causes rashes, itching, Water Hemlock which causes trembling, convulsions, respiratory And lastly, something Not the Woodcrawler but the actual, proper Nature's Mockery. Its effects on humans sudden muscular paralysis, and flesh decay. In other words, something something that can into a being hardly resembling a human. But hey, at least it won't kill you. (soft music) (coyotes howling) (cougar roaring) - [Man] Help! Help! Help me! Somebody! Help! (soft music) (eerie ambient music) - [Narrator] One of the most disturbing, and unethical aspects of this video was the description of a human pleading for help. Clearly they were desperately in need, however the video plays it off, persuading you that this human being that's probably on the but an auditory hallucination. Knowing what we know about Fake People and their conformity to human life, I understand that this could But what if it isn't? We're presented with a catch-22 here. If we risk our own life and they're not a fake person, then we've done something good and helped save a life. But if we assume that it's a fake person without ever confirming it, and they'd be left to die. It's a tactic of manipulation. Gemini Home Entertainment has of whoever watches this, and it effectively contributes a panic, per se, in which you (soft music) Moving on. We then learn how to create a fire. Critical knowledge for anyone If your fire fails to start, though, Jack Wylder advises to... - [Man] Help! Help me! Somebody! Help! Help! Somebody! Help! Help! Hello, somebody! Help! - [Narrator] And so, we have exhibit A, a fake person screaming (soft music) (ominous music) (upbeat music) (crickets chirping) (eerie ambient music) Welcome to &quot;Lethal Omen.&quot; A video game intended It takes place at Moonlight Acres, and throughout this video, we're able to observe the embodiment of various motifs we've The beginning of the the player peeks around however is soon greeted with an enemy mob that (gun firing) Interestingly, these in military fatigues, giving that there's some sort of military intervention at play here. It should be noted that there have been absolutely zero references to government involvement thus far, however given the circumstances, Keep this in mind. We'll come back to it. Anyway, a few moments later, to be a fake person, and afterwards, the Albedo The game tells us to run. (eerie ambient music) (Woodcrawler screeching) And that my friends, is what Panic. Disruption. Invasion. (Woodcrawler screeching) It appears to me that the in followed every single protocol that Harbinge outlined The dome was there, and the radio was on, but that didn't stop them. Like breaking through cardboard, a Woodcrawler was able to of refuge with ease, which leaves me curious if in good faith. If we can recall, there to their video, not only but they were also selling and the Albedo Alarm. From an outside perspective, they appeared to be to reap profits, although that point is merely conjecture they, too may be oblivious of their products. The blind leading the blind, per se. (crickets chirping) (footsteps thudding) (distant howling) (static hissing) Alright, I know this is a video game, but if the Iris is able to move around the solar system at will, coming within a critical there's a problem. And it aint just Woodcrawlers. Interestingly this section which mirrors the various other references we've seen to Woodcrawler activity. The fields. The fake people. The knocking. If there's something I'd takeaway here, it's that it seems like these more violent when the sun goes down. (ominous music) Oh yeah, I forgot to mention. You can actually play this. &quot;Lethal Omen&quot; is a game You can spend a solid hour discovering its hidden lore, and unlocking each of the I'm going to go over them now, so if you'd like to play this for yourself and keep things unspoiled, to skip forward to this timestamp. (dramatic music) Like we established, within &quot;Lethal Omen&quot;, there to uncover. Before we get to those, though, I wanted to take you into the campground to explore the hidden lore awaiting us. We begin the game next of Moonlight Acres. Both ends of the road are blocked off, however we can observe two cars nearby. One out in this field, and another resembling a police car. We're tasked with collecting three keys, and after doing so, we're then granted One of the first things you'll notice is this bulletin board. It contains two notes, and two strange images The first note informs us of the &quot;Lights in the Sky&quot; event taking place tonight at 9:30 p.m., and the second informs us to Moving inward, we're then In the first, we can observe headphones, a shortwave radio, a TV, and a Gemini Home Entertainment VHS tape. In the second, we get much of the same. This time, though, a stack of tapes containing Storm Safety Tips and other Gemini media are present, however there is this one In the third, we can observe Here, we learn that an SIV is something called a Sleep Image to plug into a module. And that same SIV module can Given the name, it seems that the SIV's goal centers For who, how, and why, we're currently unsure of. But, interestingly, if we we're able to observe the SIV the former men's club supervisor that we know was In cabin four, we can see On the TV once more is that SIV tutorial, and scattered across the and headphones, along with a tape labeled Albedo Alarm Settings Video. Moving onto cabin five, we There isn't much to this one And last but not least, cabin six. This one clearly has been evident by the large break in the floor. Within it, we can observe with a SIV module and some sort of strange plague surrounding it. Upon making our way back outside and to the archery area, we're greeted with seven targets along with After taking them out and approaching the targets, of newspaper articles about the events taking place at Moonlight Acres. Campgoers distraught after in the Sky event is abruptly canceled. If you've been looking in the Sky event this year at don't be so hasty to pack your bags. The official Moonlight updated, revealing that the event has been abruptly canceled, with no reason given. Campgoers are enraged, to Moonlight Acres every year and demand an explanation The times asked Moonlight They politely declined. The other is partially to make out, but it seems to focus on the disappearance of a person named Jordan Barnes. They were most likely Canadian, and given the fact that this note is beneath the one about the Light's in the Sky cancellation, we Investigators are are worried about their disappearance, pondering if they're victims Moving on, once we make our way into the administrator's cabin, we can observe numerous campground photos covering the walls. The first, amusingly, and displays an aerial The second shows the The third is a swimming pool, circa 1988. And the fourth is a camp staff On the far wall are that are unlabeled, and of VHS tapes. Here, we can make out however this specific one Given what we know so far about the SIVs and how they operate, I'm led to believe that this is an archive of numerous staff dreams. Further inside, we find a shelf full of TVs and a strange door Upon making our way up to it, we encounter an unkempt attic full of and on the floor beneath them? Various notes, reading the following: &quot;It was looking into me. Wants to eat the camp. I fear the men may return. My face is going away. I hear voices. The spot on my neck has grown. There's a bonfire tonight. I will stay in my bedroom. Light's in the Sky is tonight. I've been told that the Maybe it will leave us alone now.&quot; Something that stood out to to the spot on their neck. It seems to reference an and there are absolutely zero or any sort of creature. Given what we know about Nature's Mockery, it doesn't seem to be that either, which leaves me curious as of infection taking place here. Something biologic. Moving on, if we make our way back outside and head leftward, we to be Nature's Mockery. And within it, a heavily giving us a visual as to what this plant actually does to you. While examining it, the in the commercial gameplay spawns in. And then we're told to run. (eerie ambient music) And so, like we saw earlier, and from here, everything (eerie ambient music) (Woodcrawler screeching) (crickets chirping) (footsteps thudding) - [Man] Help! - [Narrator] Well, except that. And so, this time, we hear in the distance. (footsteps thudding) - [Man] Help! Help me! Somebody! Help! - [Narrator] And we come to with the same plague we (gun clicking) - [Man] Help! (gun clicking) Help me! Help! Help! (eerie ambient music) (crickets chirping) - [Narrator] And that, my Play the game like the commercial, and encounter the Iris staring into you. - [Man] Help! - [Narrator] From here, we're going to explore Clearly, &quot;Lethal Omen&quot;'s lore with tons of questions that we're currently unable to answer. I'm curious what else so let's head back in to uncover it. (eerie ambient music) Moving on to the ending two, you once again begin the game as usual. Collect the keys, and fight the enemies, of approaching the Nature's you gotta make your way back Once you're inside and turn around to exit, with a strange mannequin (eerie ambient music) And after approaching it, (gun firing) (static hissing) (knocking on door) To unlock ending three, you kill the enemies, and approach Nature's Mockery. This time, instead of making your way to the cabin or bunker, you're required to pass to the family cabin area to claim this hidden key that's also After obtaining it, you make where you'll find this target And after doing so and heading to the highway you encounter an abandoned police car, before the following plays out. (eerie ambient music) (ominous music) (gun firing) Ending four involves us After taking out the first round of enemies, we're required to shoot each target to the entrance. Curiously, we then find an and upon exploring it, foreboding hole also covered in plague. Upon approaching it, we're of creatures in the distance. (distant roaring) And, of course, we do as and jump in, giving us our fourth ending. (ominous music) And last but not least, the true ending. Here, we gotta do Keys, enemies, Mockery, plagued key, and heading back to the front. Curiously, we then see an and after approaching of enemies in a formation. This time, though, they're They're waiting on us. (eerie ambient music) (footsteps thudding) (eerie ambient music) (distant roaring) But, that isn't everything. The game continues. (eerie ambient music) We approach a tree with a sign. &quot;Shifting tendons shape anatomy. There are fewer livestock now.&quot; And another. &quot;Wretched hands tap my window. A stranger's fangs scrape the walls.&quot; (knocking on door) (floor creaking) And another. &quot;The floorboards creak while I sleep. Growing cracks leak with red.&quot; (floor creaks) &quot;The field has eyes, burning deep. They are becoming restless.&quot; (floor creaks) (static hissing) (dramatic music) The mannequins. The hole. The police car. The ritual. And the Iris. There is a ton to unpack within &quot;Lethal Omen&quot;, and the beauty of it is that, when presented you're left to encounter So, let's recap. The role of the mannequins is currently unclear. It's important to note that they appear to have a much higher polygon count than anything else found in &quot;Lethal Omen&quot;, but aside from that, is given regarding their existence. If I had to guess, I'd say that they that the camp admin If we can recall, right when we encounter them leading to a potential however this is hitherto unconfirmed. Moving onto the hole, this of Woodcrawlers. Their breadcrumb trail as they It's currently unclear what but perhaps we'll find our The police car seems The Police likely received calls of strange activity going potentially involving the however after investigation, they never made it out There's a looming impression that they're aware of Woodcrawlers, but this is also unconfirmed. And lastly, the ritual, an After realizing that everyone is a fake person, you lose Police can't help you. Camp admins answered the The bunker that's that can't help you. And a supermassive, sentient It goes without saying that fighting back is futile, and the game communicates Get in, they beckon. Give in. - [Announcer] We'll return (soft music) - [Narrator] Alright, halfway there. You still with me? As we can see, there is a lot going on with Gemini Home Entertainment. We still have tons of questions about the overall story here, but I wanted to circle back and recap on what we know so far. Refill your drink, heat and get cozy, 'cause we're (dramatic music) In review. Within Gemini Home Entertainment, the entire story revolves around the Iris. We know the Iris is a supermassive, sentient planet that without humans ever knowing it. When, how, or why it did but what we do know, is that it infected the turning it into something that is alive. Neptune has become somewhat of a minion to the Iris, a vessel, or lens that it uses to emit Given the diagram from we can infer that within these solar storms, are embryos and seeds that mutate into Woodcrawlers and Nature's Mockery the Iris' next target for mutation. Back home, the primary prey of Woodcrawlers are humans, but we know that they're of animals as well. Woodcrawlers are highly resilient and clever, given their although it's still unclear what exactly they do to achieve this. On top of Woodcrawlers, Nature's Mockery is to steer clear from, and it's method of infection appears to Somehow, at an unknown and disfigures whatever it leaving the victim in a At this point, we're currently unsure if Nature's Mockery eventually kills you, but even if it did, Within the Camp Information of the mythology behind a Given that the strange, at the same time as the in the 1930s, I'm led to assume that this campground was among the very first establishments of the Iris. This explains why every single original staff member died, well, except the admin. They weren't listed. This point leads us into &quot;Lethal Omen&quot;, an archaic video game that cements the time-period for Gemini To me, the game seems to of that admin, taking us within their desolate campground. The various endings seem to be symbolic of the many ways they could've died, but that true ending, the hopeless suicide and transformation, that is Lastly, we have two characters, Admittedly, Mary's We can assume that she mutated and have made the tenuous assumption that she's trying to communicate to Jack through the REGNAD computers. Regarding Jack, he's a recurring character throughout Gemini Home Entertainment. Obvious references are and AI videos, and, given the nature of his work as a wildlife videographer, it leaves me to wonder with these tapes than they're letting on. If we can recall, Worlds Weirdest Animals, Storm Safety Tips, and Wilderness Survival Guide all have strikingly similar shots of video, so if he's the one behind these, clearly being attacked we're left to wonder what happened to him? Where is he? And so, alongside the abstruse nature of Jack's role here, there are still tons of questions left unanswered. Why do these tapes start off ordinarily, but devolve into a disturbing mess? Do each of the companies that distributes for have humanity's or is there something larger at play here? What exactly was that in &quot;Lethal Omen?&quot; Why are there stockpiles of SIV recordings in the admins cabin? How exactly do Woodcrawlers infect humans? Is the majority of humanity aware of this impending threat? And most importantly, why did the Iris enter our solar system? We know that it's there, but we don't know how it operates and what it's overarching plans are. What we do know, though, is that Gemini Home Entertainment They know about Woodcrawlers, the plague, the deaths, and Neptune's infection, but coincidentally, we Clearly there's a lot of context left to fill, and see what else Gemini (soft music) (soft music) Well well, perfect timing. (soft music) For video nine, we once again meet our good friends over at Harbinge Technologies. This time, they're presenting on how to set up a Sleep Image Visualizer, a device in which we can assume to give us a look into the dreams of others. We begin by orienting and headset before we move Interestingly, throughout this video, we'll soon notice anomalous interruptions that have been recorded over this tape. (soft music) (static hissing) Interesting. So in the middle of this video, we observe it cut to the dream sequence of a Levi Jacobs. And within it, we witness our first mannequin character No further context is but curiously, immediately we can observe the same to represent a SIV client. (soft music) (soft music) (static hissing) (muffled chattering) (soft music) (static hissing) (footsteps thudding) (knocking on door) Let's recap real quick. Levi Jacobs was asleep for four minutes. Adrian Gordon was asleep for four minutes. Jack Dean, however, was (static hissing) (eerie ambient music) (eerie ambient music) Alright, so throughout this one, we received two references to the Iris. One being in the Goodnight sequence, and another being within the dream of Joseph Allen who never woke up. Interestingly, the video in claiming that these images or the future, however it's clear to us that they do represent the Now, backing up, we've seen the name Jack in the series twice so far. Firstly in Artificial Computer Learning, and most recently in the His last name's different in this one, but for brevity, just know Over on the Gemini Home they posted this image the SIV video released. On the very bottom, we're and to the left, we can make out bits of the story surrounding him. According to the article, Jack and wildlife expert. He had gone missing in May, and his disappearance has been the subject of a nationwide manhunt. He allegedly disappeared while filming a new and enlighten what I'm from what are most likely Curiously, the month he went missing and the time period he underwent in the same, which leaves this three-day slumber While that is currently is that Jack Dean's and the World's Weirdest Animals videos are distinctly connected. Two parts of the same With this in mind, we and we also know that he's Either of these could've killed Where is he? (computer chiming) (crowd cheering) (soft music) (soft synth music) (soft music) Next up on our list is made by an Optica Video &quot;Are you bored? Need some new, fun games to play? Well, you're in luck!&quot; They claim, and so we learn about the ins and outs of various (soft music) First up, Hide and Seek. Simple enough, one player's the seeker, and the rest are hiders. They count to 20, and go on the hunt. (soft music) (computer chiming) (crowd cheering) (soft music) Next up, Freeze tag. One player is &quot;it&quot;, while (soft music) (crowd cheering) (soft music) Third up, Sardines. The sibling to hide and seek. One person hides, and the rest go seek. (soft music) (computer chiming) (crowd cheering) (soft music) Fourth up, a game called... (crickets chirping) Well, that's new. Contrary to every bit of advice we've gotten in and following the lights when the sun goes down are We know that Woodcrawlers and Fake People are more active at night, and advice like this does nothing but ensure their demise. Unless that's the point. (crickets chirping) (computer chiming) (game buzzing) (computer chiming) (game buzzing) (computer chiming) (game buzzing) (computer chiming) (game buzzing) (computer chiming) (wind whooshing) (crowd cheering) (computer chiming) (crowd cheering) (ominous music) Alright, so Feed the Woods. A game that unequivocally leads As we could see, during this section we observed numerous Interestingly in the third one, we could observe a strange It seems to match the eye that and given the nature of this game, it would make sense. Clearly, the woods are a threat. A sort of eldritch location that serves as a breeding And as with anything that Backing up, I wanted to of this tape, a company Considering the name, of a game that quite literally of these creatures, I'm led to assume that Optica Video isn't This is a manipulation tape, with nefarious intent. And it also drives home the food source is drying up. With this notion in mind, let's think back to Moonlight Acres. We established that it for the Iris. The very first location in which humanity experienced the effects of it. Given what we know from &quot;Lethal Omen&quot; about the Light's In The and the disappearance of Jordan Barnes, we can speculate that perhaps Moonlight Acres is or was closed during the The Woodcrawlers are hungry, leaving them with no choice but to expand to the neighboring forest to inhabit and feast on animals, which, as we learned from the camp admins note, also It's here where we realize for anything they can get, and this is further evident by the shot of the Woodcrawler at the video's end. Whoever is behind Optica Video isn't someone inherently good. They're helping them, leading to question the morality of Gemini Home Entertainment as a company. With Regnad, Harbinge, and Gyneva, there was, at the very least, ambiguity in their ethics. But here, that's not the case at all. (soft music) (soft synth music) (soft music) Next up on our journey is a tape named Advanced Mining Vehicle. Here, we're introduced to a Canadian organization called NAMAD, or Northern Alberta The video begins by revolutionary piece of mining technology called the Remote-Operated As the name implies, it provides the user with tunneling capabilities, while mitigating all risk that (soft music) (static hissing) (soft music) The video then informs us of the various technologies present within the ROCT, like an optical zoom lens to focus on important details, a compact microphone or nests, and even an altimeter with a heads-up-display so and what the ROCT is tunneling into. (eerie ambient music) (footsteps thudding) (static hissing) (eerie ambient music) Following this, we then learn industrial-grade battery aboard the ROCT. And, it seems like we're it's been spotted by something. (eerie ambient music) We then cut back to the of 145 meters. (eerie ambient music) (static hissing) Interestingly, spread through of fleshy, stringy substance (static hissing) (eerie ambient music) (static hissing) (eerie ambient music) So here, we observed the to be a Woodcrawler nest to as Gardens. The deeper we go, the more which, combined with the phrase, &quot;mutation of the heart&quot;, that these creatures are infecting and mutating Earth somehow The purpose of the red however we can postulate of artery for the Woodcrawlers crops. Whether those crops are the Woodcrawlers offspring, Nature's Mockery, or something else entirely however we know that something is being propagated (soft music) (soft music) Video 12 is an educational film brought to us by the Warner In this one, we're going to learn about a condition known as Deep Root Disease. The video's split up into five sections. Roots, Contraction, Bulbs, Diagnosis, and Sprouts. In the roots section, we of some sort of growth. We're told that Roots begin of something called Bulbs, and as growth progresses, Furthermore, its base resulting in the surrounding (soft music) With this newfound context, is biologic, driving home the point that this first underneath the skin's surface. We learn that it progresses rapidly, and after making contact with bones, is able to spread freely. What exactly its effects (soft music) Moving on, we learn how to contract DRD. Here, though, the subject is, strangely, doing absolutely nothing. (door creaking) (soft music) Straight off the bat, we can make the connection and the spot on the camp And given what we know from &quot;Lethal Omen&quot; and the player character's transformation in the suicide ending, I'm definitely seeing (soft music) (ominous music) (distant clattering) (ominous music) Alright, so Deep Root Disease. A somatic condition appears to spread via direct contact. This video is pivotal because it breaks down a prior assumption about how these human We initially assumed that Woodcrawlers inhabiting victims bodies were the only way they created fake people, however in this video, we learn of something entirely results in formation of new bones, and shifting tendons. It goes without saying that to Woodcrawler transformation. The process seems to start slow, but rapidly takes off With this in mind, I wanted to back up to the Camp Information Video and highlight this section As we can recall, they When we first got to this point, we were unsure if this was or something else, however I'm really beginning to think that these two terms are synonymous. With Deep Root Disease, it is something entirely different, it's a sickness, a plague, with someone infected. It's this affliction that ultimately results in your untimely leading you to becoming one with them, and gaining a primal desire and spread DRD to the next unsuspecting family So, in short, Fake People are gutted and inhabited by Woodcrawlers, and due to this notion, they of Deep Root Disease. On the other hand, Deep creating new bones, and A cycle of life, per se. (soft music) (static hissing) Monthly Progress Report. Our third venture into the This one opens by introducing us to various Regnad staff, along with a project name for Following this, they take us through their major advancements computer processing, failure avoidance, and ACL communication. In the first, we learn that have drastically increased, to create 3D models, like In the second, we learn of a breakthrough in their Predictive given the name, seems to give Here, Regnad claims that its capabilities will soon allow their PCs within the next year. In section three, they tout of technological failures. They credit this breakthrough and wisdom from their client, but who this client is, And lastly, in the final that all communication between Regnad and their client have been recorded from the Artificial Computer That recording is as follows. (static hissing) (computer beeping) (wind howling) (computer beeping) (computer beeping) - [Distorted Voice] Mary sees- Sleeping- The vessel- Jaw- (static hissing) (computer beeping) New things roam- The harbinger- Mary hears- The hungry- (static hissing) Jack. Jack. Jack. Jack is us. (wind howling) (ominous music) - [Narrator] For the past three minutes, we observed the AI tech in action. Given that, this time, we have a grander, outside perspective on how things work, it allows us to formulate some key points. For one, we can see that are becoming infected Deep Root Disease, that this mutation can of analog transmission. Two, we realize they're meaning that they've nailed Three, we understand that the ACL module feeds the client a prompt, transmitting it through of the building. And four, the client, which is responding, effectively opening a line of communication between Now, at the end of the video, we observed to meet their client, meaning that they're well aware with something. This is not an artificial intelligence, and these stories bear stark references to what we've seen from Gemini so far. In Iteration 1,417, we can with the response given reading, &quot;Mary sees the gateway die. Sleeping ones are eaten whole. The vessel floats into the maw. The jaw unhinges.&quot; Now this could reference Either we can take it literally, assuming that Woodcrawlers eat people, like the vessels we saw in or we can take this symbolically. The line &quot;Mary sees the gateway die&quot; seems to allude back to Given that they seemed thinner than usual in the Our Solar System video, combined with the fact that it was perhaps Saturn is in the way, of sorts, unknowingly on Earth. It's withering away, and at the very same time, the threat of the Iris is ever growing back home. It wants to mutate, to consume everything, and this vessel we all and closer to it's demise. The next prompt is Moonlight, with the response, &quot;New things The harbinger guards in vain. Mary hears a creaking sound. The hungry eye is welcomed.&quot; Admittedly this one is Could be referencing fake people as the new things that however it's ultimately up for debate. What is clear, is the term harbinger, which clearly alludes to A harbinger is defined as a person or thing that announces or signals the approach of another. In other words, exactly what This line drives home the of their existence, and so too of the inadequacy of their products. This explains why the Woodcrawler was able break in so Their guidelines don't work, but they're none the wiser because they probably Lastly, with the references that he mutated. When this happened, is still unclear, however we can postulate that it just might have been when And so, with the way I don't think Regnad's Any sane person would pull however they're pressing onward. I know this won't be good. (soft music) (soft Christmas music) Christmas Eve Party. I love those. Here, we're placed into a at Moonlight Acres. (soft music) Things start ordinarily, and the party seems lively. The sun's going down though, and we all know what happens then. (rumbling) (rumbling) (animal howling) (creature screeching) (soft music) (footsteps thudding) (knocking on wood) (wood creaking) (distant indistinct shouting) (screeching) (soft music) (screeching) And so we get our first look at a distinctly different Whatever this is is with some sort of tentacles (soft Christmas music) (ominous music) And like that wasn't enough, we then learn that this abomination is Mary. This video is interesting because it presents a contradiction. Mary Dean was listed at the however at the end, she is We know that Deep Root Disease gains speed after it gets to your bones, but, damn, I didn't This leads us to assume that Jack and Mary entered the Mary's affliction was and she probably figured With this, the outside by her as she stepped and, while out there, that is when her transformation finalized. I know it sounds like, and could very well be a stretch, but I'm struggling to find an What is certain, though, is She's as foreign to us as And now we see what that (soft music) (crowd cheering) (soft music) Ah, Home Invasion Help, an educational guide by at Optica Video. The video begins by explaining how stressful home invasion can be, and reassures their viewer that We're then told of a couple like the fact that windows and doors are the most common entrances during a home invasion, and that locking them can slow a threat. Following this, it advises including cameras, motion All of which can be (soft music) (ominous music) It's clear to us that this cementing the fact that Optica Video is not a company of good. Interestingly, we now know the method of entry when Woodcrawlers Incapacitation, followed by or in other words, the nasal cavity. Now, quick side note. The reference to the because it's not something Interestingly, we also perceive humans as what and perhaps their interpretation of a human nose is a proboscis. I don't know. It could be a stretch, but that's what I took from it. Following this, we're This handheld camera Let's see what they find. (thudding) It's funny, going back to the beginning of this video and rereading everything with this new context, in a different perspective. This video never referenced homeowners, it was always ambiguous. So, throughout this home, we can observe the red fleshy substance we saw all over the Garden. Furthermore, we can notice into the shape of humans, with one of them clearly being alive. This is Deep Root Disease This family's house is clearly infested with Woodcrawlers, and likely has been for a while. Alongside this, the disease was possibly all over their house without them knowing it, and after contracting it and having it run its course, we now see what exactly it does to you. Furthermore, as we can recall these Deep Root sprouts are able to grow, anywhere, giving us a visual cue and warning of places to avoid. We can also notice how Much like the plagued NPC at the end of &quot;Lethal Omen&quot;, they're frozen, likely in their final moments of infection before their You're left in a vegetative Unable to feel. Unable to speak. But there's a catch here. A few videos ago, we do two things. Spread DRD, and inhabit which we now know is of a human nose. We never really entertained the idea of Woodcrawlers inhabiting the bodies of people already infected, which is what I believe is happening here. Their skin is gone, and we're witnessing what otherwise would be taking place inside of their body if they were fully intact. With this in mind, these people are now likely coexisting, one version of them are fake people but the real version, their infected insides, well, (soft music) (soft synth music) (soft music) And so, we make our way to the 16th and final video of Gemini Brought to us by Gyneva, has returned from a decades long mission after photographing Jupiter, (soft music) (computer beeping) (eerie ambient music) So unsurprisingly, Crusader and its many moons. And all of them, appear and alive. Interestingly, we also observe two moons being fused together by an organic force, cementing the fact that the Iris' influence is abundant, affecting Oh yeah, and Neptune's f-cking missing. (eerie ambient music) (computer beeping) (eerie ambient music) (computer beeping) (eerie ambient music) (computer beeping) (wind whooshing) (ominous music) (computer beeping) (ominous music) Alright, so this final video but I'm gonna do my best to line it out. So here, we observed the inside of the Iris, something that of every cornerstone of a sentient being. With arteries, muscular fibers, and even what appear to egg sacs. Before we get into what let's back up and establish what exactly this Crusader mission is. As we could see, it began in June of 1982. If the Moonlight Acres mythology then we know that the Iris arrived in the Solar System decades earlier. With this in mind, we can was reactionary. It's likely that astronomers with Neptune, with strange anomalies and movement not physically possible. And so, they launch the Crusader to venture out, take photographs of only Jupiter, Saturn, and Neptune, and report back with their findings. As we saw, the first stop was Jupiter. Here, everything was normal. The moons were there, Jupiter was there, and everything checked out. Upon moving to Saturn, Crusader 5 then photographs three of its moons, Titan, Iapetus, and Chiron. Interestingly, Chiron but the Crusader was still It gets even weirder in which we can read that the Crusader actually only photographed two of them. Anyway, moving on, we then This segment only spans two months, and that's because Neptune is gone. During its hunt for this missing planet, it comes into contact with various moons of Jupiter, Uranus, and Saturn of place and out of orbit. And following this, it of the problem, the Iris. It's here where it's sucked inside, and begins to photograph its interior. We then make our way through the esophagus and the spine, before approaching what the video calls it's conscious mind. While inside, we then observe including a DRD infected person standing over a bed in early May, and either a transmission module or structure from Regnad It's here where I'm led to believe that we're witnessing of the Iris. Somehow, the Crusader was observing the visual input And finally, at the very end, we lose signal. The Crusader goes and from here, we assume that and made its way back to Earth. Well, either that, or it's still inside the Iris. And the Iris is the one (wind whooshing) (dramatic music) And there we have it. 16 videos, chock full of and tons of names, companies, planets, creatures, you name it. There is so much going on within Gemini Home of it is that it's given to us with such ambiguity. So much of this story is and for all I know, you could very easily have a different theory from mine on the events taking place. Tying this all together so if I were you, I'd grab a Monster, because we're about to go full theory mode to piece together all of this. And so, ladies and gentlemen, to me, Gemini Home Entertainment goes a little somethin' like this. (dramatic music) Sometime within the millennium, a planet that we now know as the Iris enters our solar system, nesting its place between It was looking for life. Any sort of home to invade and colonize. Initially, Neptune was a contender which is likely why it chose this spot, however, it then The perfect target. The perfect home. The Iris begins to study, and interact simply because it can. It's far smarter and more powerful than anything humans have ever experienced, and could easily take over in an instant, but it wont do that, at least, not yet. It mutates Neptune through some sort of means that is unclear, and this transformation finalizes sometime in the early 1930s. It's here where it began to and with this, Jupiter and Saturn were affected by proximity. Within this first solar storm, there were likely trace amounts of Woodcrawler, Nature's Mockery, and Deep Root Disease embryos, seeds, and antigens respectively, and it's possible that, it took years for these that is invasive. (ominous music) Deep within a Minnesota forest, with Earth. Beneath the ground, they begin nesting, of the Earths' crust and building what we come It's unclear how deep this Garden goes, however given the phrase we can assume that as the Earth's core. On the surface, effects of this mutation are felt in larger and larger quantities over time, and by the mid 1930's, people an unknown plant begins to multiply, and a strange, slow-moving disease begins spreading throughout People also begin acting erratic and unnatural, however on how to handle it. Word began to spread by the late 1930s as campgoers began reporting sightings of Skinwalkers, that we now know were most likely Woodcrawlers of various animals. Given their repulsion to sunlight, we know they were only seen and heard at night, never got a good look at them. As the Iris becomes more influential, the Light's in the Sky attracting more campgoers, and resulting in more victims. Strange men began to show up as well, and with this, some sort of ambiguous deal was made with the camp, and they left without ever returning. (knocking on door) (eerie ambient music) As these creatures and this various companies begin studying and creating VHS tapes, Harbinge forms after the Iris' threat becomes known, and they begin to create guides while engineering devices that they believe will Regnad, a highly-competitive computer company obsessed with becoming a leader in becomes fascinated by the Iris and begins manufacturing with it, thus resulting of their titular AI. Gyneva, a group likely composed of scientists encounters anomalies deep within the ocean floor, and decides to share their discovery, later landing them a in which they help launch a Optica Video, an otherwise at, some point, is taken over, resulting in their videos becoming manipulation tapes in favor of the Iris. And caught between everything, a company that aims to of Earth for archival purposes. They seem to be a neutral party and this is likely why they accept all media about the Iris, (eerie ambient music) As the decades pass, the mutation of humanity becomes ever abundant. People disappear in growing and US Governments likely become involved in studying the events transpiring. Resultingly, Moonlight Acres was shut down from the '40s through the '80s, and during its closure, various engineering feats and the Crusader 5, both of which were created to And by 1982, the Crusader (eerie ambient music) In June, it approaches Jupiter. Nothing is found, and everything checked out. Three years later, it approaches Saturn, studying it from December of 1985 to January of 1986. Things, too, seem ordinary, until the Crusader finds a Concurrently back home, Moonlight Acres reopens its doors in 1985, advertising burrow free cabins, and new measures in place to During that same year, they throw their first Christmas of reopening and a new outlook, however this party abruptly ends due to Mary's transformation that has not yet been studied. Consequently, the partygoers and among the latter, is to the campground bunker It's here when he waits things out while his mutated wife leaves, and thereafter, he in life to spread the word Back in space throughout Neptune goes missing because of its mutation. It, Jupiters, and Uranus' all of which are caught by Crusader 5. And soon after, in 1992, it gets devoured by the source of the problem. It's safe to assume that, Jack Dean had filmed his and Wilderness Survival Guide to our prior assumption about of the former, we realize that due to the Iris' vision of a man in a bed in early May of 1993. The same time we know that We assume that this DRD to him given their inability by his bed. It's here where he to check if he contracted that DRD infected people And with the existence of his dream, we learn that he did not. Resultingly, he ventures He was given a new lease on life, and decides to explore a house As we established, the flesh people we saw were likely their infected insides, with their actual bodies being elsewhere, but something I failed to mention earlier was what happened during that ending. The Woodcrawler that attacked in either his death, or his untimely transformation (clattering) And this is only the Take this and multiply of Minnesota, the United States, the World and we realize the monumental scale of the problem. Gemini Home Entertainment is but a small lens to what we can see. Now imagine what we can't. The claim that the SIV dreams was a lie. They were stockpiled in And that was because they of humanity would look like. (wind whooshing) (tapping on window) (eerie ambient music) So, as fate would have while I was chest deep Part of an entirely new we have a new video, It appears to be an internal company tape, completely separate from of Moonlight Acres. (soft music) The opening shot takes Given that it was denoted before the first attack, we is happening concurrent to the we saw a few videos back. (soft music) (eerie ambient music) Moving on, we then observe In the first, written on to someone named Curtis to uphold their end of the deal with these giving into these creatures abhorrent demands. - [Glenn] Curtis, come down Fulton and I have devised a plan on how we can continue to uphold the deal without giving into these Richards has seen a bear We'll go out and shoot it. If the Statue wants a sacrifice, it'll have to settle for this. I will be a pawn no longer. Curtis, I tell you this If I could do it over again, I would never have made that deal. Glenn. (choir singing) - [Narrator] In the second to &quot;Lethal Omen.&quot; - [Glenn] Wretched hands tap my window, A strangers' fangs scrape the walls. - [Narrator] Alright, so that the camp staff made giving us more context on of Moonlight Acres. For starters, this &quot;Glenn to have had some sort of affiliation with the camp during its original run, and we can assume that he was authoritative as big as a deal with the strange men from the 1930s. I'm led to believe that this &quot;deal&quot; involved the Statue in exchange for sparing their lives. Initially, Glenn went along with it, fearing that if he didn't, he would meet the fate of the others who began to go missing during the same time period. By the year 1946, nearly he decided that he couldn't do it anymore. It was too much for him, and so he explains to to mitigate the burden of having to live his life That idea is a bear. He's going to offer a bear in lieu of another human being in hopes But, of course it doesn't. Regardless, the bear undergoes as humans would, however with in a mutated abomination. Initially, it still resembled a bear, however with it came a newfound At this point its unclear if the Statue purposefully of absorption into this bear or if it's some sort What we do know, though, is that people are still being sacrificed and molded into something otherworldly. It's just that, this time, as limbs for this monster So, as it turns out, Moonlight because of government intervention. There was a monster on the loose, and, given that Christmas Eve Party, nearly everyone was killed. (dramatic music) Alright, for real this we're at the finish line. We're done, we're here. During this journey, we the Bear, Fake People, The weird mannequin figures, the death of a couple, the motivations alien communication, planet mutation, inevitable societal collapse, dream recordings, strange and this bizarre unawareness as to what's actually going on. I cannot wait to see more episodes of this so we can get answers in mystery. There was a lot left to interpretation, and I'm keen to hear your input about it. For instance, what did the mutation of Neptune actually entail? How in the world did to reopen Moonlight Acres? Who's creating the Optica VHS tapes? What was the dynamic between camp staff and the ritual statue in &quot;Lethal Omen?&quot; And what exactly does the We know that it's happening, and we get visuals of it, however the endgame is What we do know, though, of Gemini Home Entertainment, Woodcrawlers and the Nature's Mockery is consuming. And on the brink of collapse, society is hanging The Iris is with us now. Laughing at us. And we know it's not going anywhere. (dramatic music) What began, appearing to about creatures taking over humanity, had blossomed into an incredibly dense alternate history of lore to uncover, interactive elements, and ambiguity surrounding a company that we're still unable I absolutely recommend from start to finish and formulate your own theories on what you think Gemini As we've seen, there are tons of secrets, and you just might spot something that could change your entire outlook on this series altogether. Remy Abode has crafted and the beauty of it is to be ongoing. I dunno about you, but I know for a fact that I'll be here for that ride every step of the way. This is not the end of the road. There are still tons of and much like The Walten Files, we now lie in wait until In the meantime, I'm going on vacation. I'll see you all at Moonlight Acres. - [Man] Help me! - [Narrator] I've heard (soft music) (wind whooshing)