This episode is brought to you by Brilliant When it comes to energy storage, our first But what if we went old school ... like just that kinetic energy, old school. I thought I'd explain an example of a mechanical And are they making a comeback? I'm Matt Ferrell. Welcome to Undecided. The versatility and dropping costs of lithium for not only consumer electronics, but also But it's not the only solution out there. The often overlooked technology of flywheels for supporting renewable energy like solar High power density, long lifetime, high efficiency, in flywheel technology, but how do flywheels The world has been shifting from fossil fuels low carbon emissions and maintain cheap prices. Both electricity consumption and renewable over the world in the past few years. In 2018, global energy consumption reached solar and wind only accounted for 1,827.8 in the world. Since renewables like solar and wind aren't off anytime, energy storage systems need to to make them more widely viable. But why do chemical battery installations Why not flywheels? I mean the first question to ask is probably, Really?" Or maybe it's actually: "What are flywheels?" A flywheel contains a dual-function electric It operates like an electric motor in an EV so that kinetic energy is stored in the spinning Then, when it's turned off, the dual-function and the mechanical energy stored in the rotating electricity. It's similar to how regen braking works When it comes down to it, a flywheel can be To get a little nerdy for second and talk a rotating mass is directly proportional to angular velocity.[^formula] For example, imagine one at 30km/h and another at 100km/h, which You probably guessed it ... the faster one. That's an example of angular velocity at work. Now, let's say one of the wheels is 5kg You speed them up with the same exact velocity, one will be harder to stop? If you guessed the heavier one, you got it. And that's an example of rotational mass at Optimizing the shape or increasing the rotational However, speeding up the flywheel increases and the resistance of the material that it's can store. Bottom line: spinning a flywheel too fast Now that's obviously something you want to is something we've been mastering for a long Flywheels were first used in potter wheels threads. Later, they played an important role in the used in engines and machines to smooth out However, the first flywheel used exclusively in 1883 for a military application. In this case, the flywheel installed in the source and provided directional balance. And in the 1940s, the concept of flywheels Oerlikon, when it released its carbon-free The Gyrobus used energy from the grid to spin generator while on the move. When the flywheel was completely charged (3,000 of up to 50 to 60 km/h. Since then several improvements have been storage capacity with safe operation. Flywheel Energy Storage Systems (FESS) are besides the flywheel and electric motor: bearings, FESS have bearings to support the rotor and which allows it to spin at high velocities. Mechanical bearings require high-performance properly, and are also sensitive to gyroscopic The main losses of flywheels are caused by To solve for that expensive magnetic bearings high-speeds in order to reduce maintenance any lubrication. It also helps to increase efficiency due to FESS also come with a power electronic converter input/output of the electric motor/generator. Flywheel Energy Storage Systems (FESS) fall Low-speed flywheels are made of steel and These are heavy and use the advantage of their (back to the point that flywheel energy is On the other hand, modern flywheels that feature 100,000 RPM, which makes it store more energy square of angular velocity. You still with me? Because I'm not sure I am. Advanced flywheels are housed in a vacuum They also have air or magnetic suppression are made of materials with a high strength-to-weight In practice, flywheels have a fast response to stabilize the grid frequency when unstable In addition to that, they can be completely considerably longer lifetime of about 20 years (about 95%), and high power density so it All these advantages make flywheels a suitable They've been used as Uninterrupted Power applications to provide power backup for essential Flywheels have also been used as Control Moment Space Station (ISS) to hold the space station surface. In motorsports they've been used as hybrid like in the Audi R18 e-Tron LMP1s that won And they've also been used in the electrical FESS have also been used in grid applications as frequency regulation and power fluctuation Similar to how Tesla's Hornsdale Power Reserve Some examples are the Beacon Power 20 MW units Township, Pennsylvania to support frequency These plants were commissioned in 2011 and Beacon's flywheel rotor is made of a carbon Its flywheels spin up to 16,000 rpm and can cycles. Another company playing this game in order storage applications is Amber Kinetics. Their all-steel M32 model can provide 8kW higher than 86%, and offers 11,000 cycles. In 2018, the company in partnership with West commissioned a 128kW/512kWh flywheel energy This project is integrated to a grid connected 116MWh. Amber Kinetics also installed another storage a 60 MW solar power power plant in order to Since its commission in 2018 it has already But, how do flywheels stack up over other Compared to batteries, flywheels are made can be reused, and may have higher capacity In addition to that, batteries need to be flywheels, which have a much longer life cycle. In comparison to other mechanical energy storage hydropower, flywheels reach higher efficiencies. So, what's the catch with flywheels? Why haven't we seen them popping up in solar The latest technology provides energy just energy installation cost. According to the Electricity Storage and Renewables: FESS costs varied from $1500/kWh to $6000/kWh, range from $1000/kWh to $3900/kWh. On the other hand, lithium-ion battery storage from $200/kWh and $1260/kWh in 2016, and it's $77/kWh and $574/kWh. Flywheels are also beaten out by flow battery and $576/kWh by the same year. Another interesting analysis is the Levelized comparable to LCOE but for storage systems. The article Projecting the Future Levelized that, for short discharge duration and frequent reach about $520/MWh in 2050, while Li-ion Mean LCOS of $280/MWh and $220/MWH, respectively. Flywheels need to have a big cost reduction of new materials with high strength and low-density the electrical motor/generator. This means a lot of money and time spent on have been overlooked in favor of the latest But there is an interesting hybrid approach. But before I get to that, I'd like to thank If you'd like to learn more about physics Essentials course at Brilliant. Physics was never my strong suit, so brushing really helped me wrap my head around flywheels. Even if physics makes your brain spin with has over 60 courses in other topics like mathematics, They teach all of the concepts through fun understand the &quot;why&quot; of something ... not It helps to develop your intuition, which into the way I learn. Go to www.brilliant.org/Undecided to sign The first 200 people will get 20% off their Thanks to Brilliant and to all of you for Now, back to the hybrid approach...Some recent verify the feasibility of integrating flywheels One example is the AdDHyStor project, operated about EUR3 million EU-funding for trailing system to support dynamic grid stabilization Another recent example is the 8.8MW lithium-ion system in Almelo in the Netherlands that will to the grid. This looks to be a promising solution and Jump into the comments and let me know what and if there other types I should take a look If you liked this video be sure to check out Be sure to subscribe and hit the notification And as always, thanks to all my Patreons and I'll see you in the next one.