Hey there, guys. Paul here from TheEngineeringMindset.com. In this video, we're the different ways to of your existing chiller setup. Just before we get started though, I want to take a moment to for sponsoring this video. Danfoss want to help you longer lasting, and and they have a wide range of solutions to help make that possible. In fact, they have up you need for your chiller systems, including compressors, AC drives, system protectors, heat exchangers, valves, electronics, and sensors. It doesn't matter what kind of Danfoss have products that increase reliability, and ultimately take All of these solutions come together to help you design and from the inside out. You can get started by heading In most applications, chillers are the single largest energy-consuming piece of There's a lot of pressure on engineers as well as building to reduce the energy consumption and carbon footprint of buildings. So chillers are naturally going to be in the focal point for this. We'll have a look at both low cost options as well as some potential Let's first consider how First we have the compressor. This is going to to take and compress it into a higher pressure. For this to work we need and we'll represent that with this Q with a subscript of E and the words &quot;in&quot;. The Q stands for energy, the E stands for electricity, and the words in stands for with respect to the refrigeration system. As the refrigerant it's going to to take away the building's unwanted thermal So we have thermal energy entering the refrigeration system here, and we'll represent that by the Q with a subscript of th for thermal, and the words in because it's energy entering This unwanted thermal energy is then rejected from the condenser. So we have energy leaving the system here, and we'll represent that with the letter Q and the subscript of th for thermal and the word out for the with regards to the system. We also have fans on which run to force the So you have electrical energy also represented by a Q, with a subscript of E for electricity and the word in because The condenser and the evaporator and they're exposed to water which causes restrictions Between the evaporator and the condenser, we have the expansion valve. This maintains the pressure differential between the high and low This also controls the into the evaporator, and ultimately the superheat Then we have the controls and fittings and these direct and dictate how the system will work. So we have lots of components, which are all playing to change and control the and pressure at different points. All of these play a a chiller will consume. Let's work our way around the system to consider different ways to reduce the energy I do just want to point out that the estimated energy savings listed for each of the items is for individual implementation. You can combine these steps mentioned, but the potential savings will not simply add The first area that we'll consider is the most energy-intensive part, that being the compressor. In many cases, the is able to be retrofitted Check with your chiller manufacturer or your chiller service specialist if your chiller can be retrofitted. For example, replacing a with a Danfoss DSH scroll compressor with intermediate discharge valves allows the compressor to operate more efficiently at part load, and this could produce energy savings of around six to nine percent. The biggest factor affecting the savings is how much of the year does the chiller operate at part load? If it's at full load for most of the year, then there will be little to no savings. However, if the chiller for the majority of the year, which the majority of chillers do, then there is big potential Compressor VFD Retrofit. If it's not feasible to replace the compressor of the chiller, then VFDs, or Variable Frequency Drives, can often be fitted to the compressor. This allows the chiller to at part low conditions. The efficiency of full load, however, will be reduced because of Most chillers will operate for the majority of the year, so this is a very attractive option. Retrofitting a VFD can of around 20%. The next part to consider is what the chillers compressor does and how does it link to of the evaporator and the condenser? Remember, it takes a and compresses this to a higher pressure. This is what the electrical So let's look at some ways no and low cost option. Chilled Water Reset. The chilled water out of the temperature was traditionally fixed, usually somewhere around or 42.8 degrees fahrenheit. But it's common practice now to apply a chilled water reset strategy. The chilled water reset allows a temperature of the chilled water to be increased during This reduces the amount of work done by the chiller's compressor. The increase in chilled water temperature results in an increase of the refrigerant. The compressor takes the refrigerant at the evaporator's pressure, then compresses it and to the condenser's pressure. So the higher the evaporator pressure, the less work the compressor needs to do to increase that pressure. As a rule of thumb, the chiller's efficiency can be increased by one to two percent per degree celsius the chilled water There are a lot of ways to implement this. You should first check with if this is applicable to your chiller, and ask what temperature should be imposed. If it is applicable, then you can start to decide what will be the deciding because there are many ways to do this. We won't go into too much but some common options are to control based on the to control based on the actual load, both sensible and latent heat, or to control based on the average or highest demanding valve Before implementing chilled water reset, it's important to consider the chilled water pumps for variable volume systems. This is to meet the cooling load. The optimal point should be calculated to make sure that the doesn't offset the The cooling coils are often The temperature of the chilled water is crucial for this, so check if that is And you should also check if the chiller manufacturer recommends any temperature for the water or refrigerant. Condenser Water Reset. This can only be implemented as air cool chillers do not This is very similar to we just looked at. By reducing the temperature you will reduce the amount of work the compressor needs to do, because the decrease in water temperature will result in a reduction in the condenser refrigerant pressure. Again, as a rule of thumb, you can typically save one to two percent per degree celsius the water Usually, the condenser water is fixed at around 27 degrees celsius, or 80 degrees fahrenheit, and the cooling tower fans or bypass line adjust to control this temperature. Some regions of the world will be able to reduce the as the outdoor wet bulb This will reduce the condensing pressure of the refrigerant so the There are limits on how Eventually, the chiller will just shut off to protect itself, so do check with the before doing so. Cleaning the chiller, this should be a fairly obvious one, but you'll find buildings that have even never cleaned their or they do so infrequently. Every chiller is designed to have some amount of fouling, but over time, biological growth, dust, foreign particles &amp; will build up and line the surfaces of the pipes and the heat exchangers. This will cause the pumps to work harder, but also reduces the ability to transfer thermal energy between the water and the refrigerant. Appropriate water treatment should be carried out You should contact a local to determine the correct chemicals and dosing intervals. Additionally, the condenser and evaporator should be physically cleaned periodically. If the condenser is connected then it's good practice For evaporators and condensers, which are on closed loops, then it's good practice to physically clean The amount you can save really depends on how much fouling has built up on the surfaces. Cleaning heavily fouled chillers can lead to an energy saving up to around 10%, whereas a lightly fouled chiller would see a one to three This is going to depend on how much fouling builds up, as well as how long the chillers run for. It is best to keep a daily log of the operating conditions to compare the performance over time. This will indicate when it's economical to isolate the chiller and cleaner. Don't forget to also clean the fins on the condenser of an air-cooled chiller. Over time, these can accumulate dirt, dust, pieces of trash, animal mess and biological material, which builds up on the surfaces and reduces the heat The expansion valve. Many chillers use a to control the flow of refrigerant into the evaporator to achieve the desired superheat. If you want to know how a then we've previously made a very detailed animation video. See the links in the The thermal expansion valve can be upgraded to an which will provide much especially at low loads, and because it's digital, it's able to respond to changes and control the superheat with greater precision and speed. It does this by measuring and the temperature at the The precision allows to be reduced so that doesn't need to work so hard. By replacing a thermal expansion valve with an electronic expansion valve, energy savings of around 14% are possible, but this varies on the Air cooled chiller and Air cooled chillers will use condenser fans to reject the heat. These are often controlled to run either 100% off or 100% on with no variations between. Sometimes these fans are grouped together to provide cooling stages, especially on larger units. These fans can be replaced with EC, or electronically controlled fans, which allow the fans to This provides a much more uniform airflow over the condenser coils, and also allows energy savings. Replacing the fans on with an EC fans can lead to Free Cooling or Economizer Cooling. This is a very popular but it can also be used It involves removing the unwanted heat from the cooling system without or with minimal This is isn't possible in all locations. It can be only used when is below the chilled water Using a free cooling allows the chiller's However, the pumps and fans will still run and will likely run at higher speeds, so some of the savings from are offset here. Using a free cooling cycle could reduce the chiller's by 20, even up to 50%. Again, this really depends on and the setpoint temperature. Air-cooled chillers sometimes have a free cooling feature built in, which uses the fans if conditions are right. But I have come across some installations where this hadn't been commissioned, so check with the chiller manufacturer if this feature is available, or if it can be retrofitted to your existing air-cooled chiller. Alternatively, air-cooled condensers can be fitted into the system to use just ambient air and fan power to remove as much heat as possible before it reaches the chiller. For water-cooled chillers, a common approach is to and the chilled water circuit or a plate heat exchanger, to directly transfer the heat. This allows the unwanted thermal energy in a chilled water return lane to be transferred over and rejected by the cooling towers. However, the two systems It's only the thermal energy which transfers from via the plate heat exchanger. Controls, Controllers and Fittings. Where possible, choose digital as these can perform faster When replacing a fitting, check with a manufacturer whether there are more energy efficient and reliable fittings available. With both fittings and controls equipment, over time, manufacturers will which means it becomes to obtain spare parts from third parties. Do stay on top of this and do not just replace like for like. Always seek improvement. On the control side, a manufacturer will quite often release new software updates periodically for the controllers and equipment. Make sure the service and BMS is updating your systems where possible. This will allow the controllers to operate more effectively If you use a third party pressure them to come up with new energy savings control strategies, not just for the chiller, but also how it interacts with You can ask for this as part or as a contract renewal, or just ask them to provide quotations for the improvements. Chiller and Plant Sequencing. The chiller, cooling towers and pumps all have different efficiency curves, especially at part load conditions. A plant sequencer can be used to ensure that the most efficient is used to match the current cooling load. The sequencer can be used either just for the chillers, or more advanced ones will include the associated large plant items. If you opt for the then it's possible to reduce the entire system's energy consumption by up to 20%, sometimes higher, but this really depends on how bad the control strategy previously was, also how efficient your Cooling Tower, AHU and Pump VFDs. The cooling tower fans, the chilled and condensed water pumps as well as the AHUs all Although these aren't part of the chiller, they are part of the cooling system, which the chiller is serving, and how they work will of the chiller. These motors can easily be integrated with variable speed drives to produce large energy savings. You'll often find that the pumps and fans are providing a higher flow rate than the system is designed for. You can check the building's These plant items are typically oversized by five to 20%, so fitting VFDs allows to closely match the design. Additionally with some the VFDs can be used and vary the speed to Using this method can typically lead to a 30% reduction in energy That about wraps things up. But before I go, I just want for sponsoring this video. Don't forget to check out their wide range of chiller solutions over at chillers.danfoss.com. Okay guys, that's it for this video. Thank you very much for watching. I hope you enjoyed this If so, then please don't forget to like, subscribe and share. Also don't forget to Twitter, Instagram, Google+, as well as check out our articles on TheEngineeringMindset.com.