- Good afternoon, everybody My name is Douglas Rogers, I teach in the Anthropology Department, and I'm the Faculty in Russian East European Today is a special event not who's one of the most well and most fascinating in the past 50 years, but because in a much this is the first time that words &quot;Program in Russian East European are being uttered in public at Yale. Applause is appropriate. Our program dates from July 1st, 2018. And we think that the around campus and full are good evidence of expanding of this part of the world. So thank you for coming. Look at our website, we hope to bring you many I want to thank MacMillan Center, the Council in European Studies, for helping us with this event also, and especially the Poynter and the Office of Public Eileen O'Connor is somewhere here. Thank you very much for your and many other events and hope to have in the future. The plan for today is over to Constantine Muravnik, for suggesting this program to make it happen. He'll introduce our guest, who will then speak for a little while, followed by sort of open question answer and discussion period. So without further ado, Constantine. (audience applauding) - It is my distinct honor to welcome Vladimir Pozner to Yale. Mr. Pozner needs an who are too young to remember in this country when he regularly appeared on Ted Koppel's Nightline and then co hosted the At that time, he once visited Yale, so it's not a welcome but a welcome back. Mr. Pozner may also need who are detached from contemporary Russia, where he is omnipresent in the media. For the past 10 years, he has where he interviews various from all walks of life; Gaidar, Shoigu, Ted Turner and Vekselberg, Hillary Clinton and Sting, Michael McFaul and Ksenia had a chance to face Mr. and be judged by millions Mr. Pozner's opinions on from politics to soccer, and arts quickly go viral. They have become a fact of that he has been termed, the spiritual leader of the This is despite the fact just as much as he is He was born in France and grew up in the U.S. and came to Russia only at the age of 19. Perhaps this cosmopolitan is what endears him to Russian public, tired like any other public, Perhaps, this ability to and American and European to the subtleties of and brings him one step and no less appreciated Especially now, when the and nations are only widening. And one side increasingly the views of the other. In his more than five decades Mr. Pozner has done his share of partisanship and propaganda. However, this changed in the '80s when he pioneered a project of so called space bridges, with Russian and American audiences. Moscow viewers named him &quot;TV And this high mark of recognition has never decreased ever since. In 1989, and in from 1994 to 2008, Mr. Pozner headed the In 1997, he founded the School a platform for education and He's written several books and made a number of about different countries, These films brought the Germany, England, Israel and Spain closer to millions of Russian people. It is my hope that this will also achieve what That it will bring a little closer to our and will maintain what a dialogue, based on mutual So please join me in (audience applauding) - Thank you very much. Quite an introduction. I'd like to say a couple and what I am not withstanding It's important that you understand that I don't represent Any organization, I represent myself. I am an independent journalist. And that's an animal that and not only in Russia. I think, for me, it's and I hope I'm not going to speak long because I was told we would And I think that might be the because you have questions or views that you might wanna share with me, and I can't guess them in advance. But there are certain before we have that conversation. I'd like to say, first at an extremely dangerous moment today. Never have the relations between Russia and the United States not what it was before, During the worst times of the Cold War, when I was living in the Soviet Union, and I remember all that very, very well. Russians were anti White but not anti American, In fact, there was a vis-a-vis the Americans. Today that's different. Today it's anti American And there's a reason for it. Another thing that is, to me scary is that neither side seems to be afraid of nuclear weapons. 30 years ago, those of certainly remember an American which is about what happens after a nuclear strike. There was fear of these weapons as there was in the Soviet that these weapons can and if Today, there's a feeling it's as if there are no nuclear weapons. It really doesn't seem to And the danger of a not a but an accidental one has of mistrust between the two There have been several times in the past when computers warned of a nuclear attack. But it never got to the real thing because people took the Now, they didn't have a long time. If an ICBM is launched from Russia, it will take about 10 minutes So you know, and vice versa obviously. So you don't have a long But my feeling is that if today those same computers malfunction that an attack has been launched, the response would be immediate. Because the feeling is that Not that long ago, we were all Gorbachev, Gorby, Gorby, we're gonna be... And in such a really short period of time, how did this happen? Why are we at the point that we are today? And I'm not saying who's to blame, because that's not a productive But we should try to understand The Soviet Union once Gorbachev took over, didn't really last very long. He came to power in March of 1985. And by December 1991, there Some people say, it In a place called the Belavezha, which is a kind of a the President of Ukraine, and the President of Russia to part company, decided to Now, each had his own reasons, definitely. But if we look at Mr. Yeltsin, He was the President of Russia. So he was number two to Gorbachev. Because Gorbachev was which Russia was part, the Get rid of the Soviet Union, and there's no president and That's precisely what he did. So no more Soviet Union. Quickly no more Warsaw Pact, countries that were usually and part of a military that Alliance disappeared. And so the United States how do we deal with this How do we deal with it? There's no more Soviet Union. What is going to be U.S. And of course, Yeltsin also had to think about what is going to towards the United States. You may remember that soon ceased to exist, and I think Yeltsin came to the United States. And he addressed the And he said, the people of to the people of the United to build a better world, a world with our peace. And this was exactly of Russians wanted. And I would even say that of Russians would like to with the United States, There's no doubt to my So that was what Yeltsin wanted, and what kind of response did he get? What kind of response did Russia get? Well, the United States of treating Russia. One was to say, let's treat after World War II, Germany, Italy, and in some of the countries such as France, or were but were really badly hurt. Let's find a way to see to Nazis, fascists do not come back. And communists do not come that in those days, the and the Communist Party of And that plan turned out was which was basically a a lot of money but in a very precise way to develop certain things, and not to allow others to develop. Now, that could be the policy, See to it that democracy begins And let me say, just for the record, Russia never in its entire thousand years, never had democracy, completely absent. So it wasn't like something Russians had, and then they They didn't know what it was. So let's spend money on getting and seeing to it that the And that could have been one approach. The other approach was you held a nuclear bomb over our heads, you lost the Cold War, and You're gonna be punished for what you did. And there were people who who supported the other in this country. Early in 1992 a document was by a gentleman called Paul Wolfowitz. You may know who he was, he of the United States The document he produced came to be called the Wolfowitz Doctrine, but that's the way it was addressed. It later was incorporated in something that was officially That document was leaked And so it became public. And what it basically said, it's available, you know, and you'll find it, what The United States should never again, allow any other country to challenge it. The United States must And we should tell our allies not to worry about developing their own weapons because we will do that for them. And we must watch out for Russia because we don't know The bear might get up on his When that document was there was an outcry by the in America now the word has lost the meaning that So when I say liberal, I'm not sure that I'm saying the right word, but at least many people Edward Kennedy said that it that no country could or should accept. It was quickly as it were removed and rewritten by Mr. Cheney. Not a very liberal man in any sense as far as I can remember. And the Secretary of Defense but basically it retained must remain, was to be And basically, that view was It was the one that was accepted. And the attitude towards you're no longer a superpower. You are a second rate country. Just, just keep quiet, please. This became evident and if you follow the policy Now, let's begin with and his meetings when he all of them quite important, and take down the Berlin Wall. And he was told by James Baker, and now this is not many people. I mean, when I would say this, many people say, it's He was told by James NATO will not move one inch eastward. Well, not long ago, on the National Defense archives of George Washington University, declassified the minutes of and it's there. But it's not only Baker there was several people there, the German leadership did, Western Germany those days and so on. And finally, I'm not saying, could have stopped Germany from re-uniting but the fact of the matter and took down the Berlin Wall. And NATO stayed put, it It stayed put under Bush Senior, it stayed put during the But in the next four years a decision was taken to enlarge NATO, three countries; Poland, the Now, I'm gonna read something to you. You know who Thomas Friedman is? New York Times old hand columnist. He, when this happened, this He called up George Kennan. I don't know if you're all but he was one, in my opinion, perhaps one of the most brilliant minds, political minds of the United States in the second half of the 20th century. The man who devised of the Soviet Union rather than war against the Soviet Union, So, you know, a brilliant man who established the very Vis-a-vis the Soviet Union. So Thomas Friedman called him up. The article he published it's called &quot;Foreign Affairs; Because in 1947, in the Mr. Kennan had published this and he signed it X. So he called him up and he asked him, what did he think about his Let me quote, &quot;I think &quot;I think it is the &quot;said Mr. Kennan from his Princeton home. &quot;I think the Russians will &quot;and it will affect their policies. &quot;I think it is a tragic mistake. &quot;There was no reason for this whatsoever.&quot; That decision, and now is what really started this relation, turning itself, as you might say, that's where it all began. Because the Russian reaction So this is Yeltsin, late Yeltsin was, &quot;you promised not to do this. So, how do we trust you, I would also like you to, perhaps try to solve a little problem. It's a kind of a mathematical. Take the time from when March 1985, to 2007, when Putin has been in power for seven I ask you to find a single thing in foreign or domestic policies while still existed, that might in any way anger, irk, disappoint the United States. Let me answer that for you. Nothing, not one thing during that period. Now, what did Russia First, the enlargement of NATO. So that was number one. Then the bombing of Yugoslavia. That was done by NATO and mostly on the United States. Let's face it, right? The UN did not condone this. So the bombing of Yugoslavia to June 10th, '99. Then Kosovo and recognition of Kosovo although it had been part and there were people in Russia who said, you're letting the genie out of the bottle. Because if you do this, then that will do the same. And Russia did the same Vis-a-vis (indistinct) to begin with, okay. Yelstin was very angry. He made a speech, he said, and of course, this is very Yeltsin-like. He said, &quot;We're not Haiti, &quot;Were a great country. &quot;We have a great past and &quot;Russia will come back.&quot; He was really, really angry. He didn't say the but he spoke his mind. Then finally 2000, year 2000, although elected to the presidency. And one of the first thing to become a member of NATO. Why not be a member of NATO? NATO was created to defend Europe and perhaps not only Europe from a country that you couldn't predict. There is no more Soviet Union, and there is no more Warsaw Pact. Why can't we create an organization where we are part of it, said Mr. Putin, and act together to protect He was told, go take a walk, basically. What about some kind of partnership or becoming part of the European Union? Again, and this is all except when I say my you can look it up. And he said, no, you know, you're too big. Your country is too big, you can't. And all the while Russia that it's no longer really Now, one of the things is that much like the that they have a mission, was selected by destiny. Now, you know, my being I laugh both at you and at them. Because we French know that and we have no mission, But seriously speaking, that's a fact. And so the sense of losing of being told, we don't care about you, the reaction of the was one of you're insulting me. You don't respect me. And so the anger, gradually, and the anger focused on Gorbachev. Many, many Russians figured You don't stand up to these men, to the United States. And then the same thing for Yeltsin. You'd be surprised how unpopular Gorbachev and Yeltsin are today in precisely for that reason? Well, there are some others as well that have to do with economic So now here we have Putin, who as you know, as soon as 911 happens, calls up, Bush Jr. W, and offers his help. And yes, and does help in Afghanistan. And if you wanna have your soldiers, your military people in Central be my guest and in Georgia, absolutely. So it's not just words, you know, we wanna fight terrorism together and gets nothing in exchange. So finally in 2007, in the group of 20 in This is February 10th. &quot;I think it is obvious that NATO expansion &quot;does not have any relation &quot;with the modernization &quot;or with ensuring security in Europe. &quot;On the contrary, it represents &quot;that reduces the level of mutual trust. &quot;And we have the right to ask against whom &quot;Is this expansion intended? &quot;And what happened to the &quot;made after the dissolution &quot;where are those declarations today? &quot;No one even remembers them. &quot;But I will allow myself &quot;what was said. &quot;I would like to quote the &quot;Mr. Berner of Brussels on May 17th, 1990. &quot;He said at the time, quote, &quot;to place a NATO army &quot;gives the Soviet Union a &quot;Where are these guarantees?&quot; And you know what the answer was? The answer was, yes, but to the Soviet Union and you're Russia. Well, what kind of a Last year, I think it was, making a foreign policy &quot;Our mistake was that &quot;And your mistake was that you tried &quot;to take advantage of that.&quot; That is the situation today. Now, it may seem to you that I don't want the word blame used. It was a mistaken political decision. It was not the Russians. It was this decision that in Putin's attitude towards towards the United States, which is why I say how U.S. policy created Putin the way he is today. And the really, if you is that Russian leadership, and say Vladimir Putin does not trust the United States, which makes it very difficult to move away from where we are today. So something I wanna underline, so we are in now in a new We are in a new Cold War The danger of an accidental We no longer seem to fear that, there used to be demonstrations, you know, get rid of nuclear weapons, The possibility of a terrorist a nuclear weapon has grown. And to make it look like someone used it on each side, not the terrorists. So that I believe is something and finally, as someone I would like to say that I mean Mainstream Media, Russian media, Mainstream or indirectly by the government shows an extremely negative U.S. policy and so on. And much to my surprise, does exactly the same Which to me, is amazing to be a free media that's As someone who works in Russian media, I can say it's hard to There are some opposition but that's not mainstream. They address a very So there we are, I think people who call themselves they're not journalists. But those people have a destructive role in creating the distrust, that the have vis-a-vis each other. And the fact that we don't is really quite interesting. But there it is, So I'd like to wind up with no, I hesitate to use the word gentleman, from a man whose name was Herman Goering. You all know who he was? There may be some people Well, he was Hitler's right hand man, and he commanded the Luftwaffe, And he was, of course, at Nuremberg, he was judged, getting But he managed to get some poison, probably from the Soviets, of course, since they poison people, as we know, so as not to be hanged. But he was interviewed shortly before he committed suicide. And here's what he said. And I think this is something &quot;Naturally, the common 'Neither in Russia nor in England, &quot;nor for that matter in &quot;But after all, it is the &quot;who determined the policy. &quot;And it is always a simple &quot;whether it is the democracy &quot;or a parliament, or a &quot;Voice or no voice, the &quot;to the bidding of the leaders. &quot;That is easy. &quot;All you have to do is tell them &quot;they are being attacked &quot;for a lack of patriotism, &quot;and exposing the country to danger. &quot;It works the same in any country.&quot; Said Mr. Goering. And I think he was absolutely right. And we are being led by our in that direction in both countries. I remember an ad that I whose name I, he starred in, An African American, not a young, what? - [Woman] Freeman. - Freeman, yes, yes, and And he does it very well. He's a wonderful actor. But you know, he's tells you, we are at war, and we And of course, it's very scary. You know, there's nothing I can And I speak, I'm happy I do this in Russia. And I'll keep doing it as Because there has to be some voice raised against what's happening. We're being manipulated. You know, the way Putin is portrayed. Well, he's worse than Hitler. And even Hillary Clinton, this is, I'm not a Putin fan, believe me, but what's going on here? And of course, President Trump, is not too positive about him, but anyway. So basically, that's what and see I've only spoken for 45 minutes. And I would very much like to discuss, I hope you have problems, (audience laughing) That was a Freudian slip, wasn't it? I hope you have questions, what I've just said, in the it can't be argued about. I mean these are facts, that's a whole different issue. So thank you again for, for (audience applauding) - So I am acutely aware of which one of us has more experience in So I think I will skip the first question and and comments with the following We have two microphones, You may think that you have a loud voice but the people behind you will not agree. So please wait for the microphone. Please be aware of the fact for conversation and a lot of us. So please keep your and we'll try to keep things moving. And we'll move back and So I'm gonna start on this side. Go ahead, sir. - I'm very interested in your The U.S. Intelligence is involved in U.S. elections. And I don't think I'm that the Russians are in So I'm very interested - Well, I think that's a you know, a question a lot of people have, I'm happy to answer as well as I can. I wouldn't say that the Russians I mean, the Russians don't really know who the Republicans are. It's not part of their daily interest or the Democrats for that matter. But, is this microphone working? - [Audience] Yes. - Okay, but it is the fact over the years have been the ones that have achieved breakthroughs Nixon did when Jews were allowed Bush did, Reagan did, such as Carter, and Clinton but that's, Russians did support, including the Russian did support Trump. Now, look, they had a choice. Hillary Clinton or Donald Trump. Hillary Clinton said KGB agent and had no soul Trump said, I think I I think we can do this. Now, yes, the Russians wanted him to win. And I think that's normal. Did the Russians interfere? Officially, Putin denies it. The Russians officially deny it. U.S. Intelligence, it can't furnish the exact proof but it is certain that they did. I've been reading just recently, you know, there was this huge, I special issue in New York Times about the you know, pages and pages with wonderful illustrations that are supposed to really No, this kind of thing. This is journalism? Interesting, isn't it? And when you read the and you ask yourself, it's not an article. This one, two, three, four with graphics, five, six, six pages And when you read it why was it published now? It's got to be a reason for this, right? I mean, this happened a while ago. What is the idea? And what you find at the very tail end is that over the past few the popularity of Mr. And the number of people who believe that the Russians interfered That's a good reason to And this is a very that doesn't furnish any proof. But it's very well done as This is just one. So I said this came out September 20th. The next one comes out in Time Magazine, which is October 1st, on the same thing, but this is, again, the interference of the Russians. And then we have another story in the New York Times September 26. So I'm saying to myself, of a salvo, cannons going. And I have to ask myself, And I would ask you, you know, why now? Does this have to do with I think it probably does. Now, did the Russians interfere? I think they probably did. I think they probably did. Was that effective? I doubt it. I very much doubt it. They didn't spend a whole which is really nothing when But they did, you know, some I believe that, to won the election because you have to be very naive for that. I mean, a farmer in Idaho was influenced by Russian propaganda? I mean, I worked in Soviet And I'm not of the highest, I mean, it's not that great propaganda. (audience laughing) It's not something I'm I mean, perhaps what I do today is because of what I did back then, you know, mea culpa. But really, was Putin the I don't know, I can't I'm a journalist, give me proof. Give me proof and I'll say But I think yeah, there to do it and so what? Does America ever interfere (audience laughing) Never?! You know, why is it okay for you and not okay for them? You know that's a question. Well, I got an answer to that from one former CIA high ranking gentleman. &quot;He said, well, you see, &quot;But we interfere for good, So I thought, well, that's it. So that's how I answer your question. I would say, yes, I would of that, the impact of it. And I would say that it's being in this country now for And it only really surfaced Before that, it wasn't there. But you had to find a reason why she lost. And of course, it was And that's par for the course, isn't it? Le's hear the next question. - [Man] what is your opinion of the past Trump, Putin meeting? And you think it was it's actually reason trying - Even if it was for show, it was good. It was good for, how should I At last, these two men, one of the most powerful country in the world, and the other is the that has 10,000 nuclear warheads, and may not be that powerful, These two men have gotten together. And that in itself is positive. Nothing was really achieved. But I would say that one is it seems to me that the two And that's very important. You know, Gorbachev and Reagan, were completely different human But they liked each other. And they achieve some really when you think about it. So I think it was a good thing. I think it was a first step. Of course here, the reaction Because supposedly, well, that he trusted Putin, and that So how can you trust both? They're saying opposite things. And there was a lot of talk about the fact that he lost to Putin. What did he lose? He gave Putin the opportunity to be on the same stage with him. That's true, that's true. Did that increase Putin's stature? I don't think so, I don't think so at all. And I hope that there's a next meeting, I hope there is. I hope that somehow to break out of the I mean, I'm not again, I'm But even if he tries to do the U.S. Congress, seems hell And I don't know why. Now, if, if the American establishment wants regime change in and someone different of the people who run this that is extremely dangerous. It's not going to happen. It's not going to happen. Russians are living worse today than they did five years ago. The sanctions are hurting. But the average Russian is saying, we're being punished This is not fair. This is the American bully, And we'll take it, we can take it. And I think that's true. The Russians, the tougher it They're pretty weak when things are good. No, it's true, but when things are tough, that's when they're really, you know. And I was reading this book It's called &quot;The Cycles and he dwells on 1850 when the, you know, there were revolutions in Europe in 1848. And there was a Hungarian Revolution. And the leader of that revolution And finally, that revolution by the Austrians and the Russians. And so speaking in Congress, said that the United This is 1850. And Senator Hale, and &quot;the future historian might about the year 1850 in At the commencement of this the highest legislative body of the world, the world wisest, greatest that ever lived or ever will live, forgetting and neglecting which considered their own limits, constituted themselves into to try the nations of the earth for atrocious acts of despotism.&quot; 1850, the idea that the to interfere in other countries from a U.S. or other point of view, that was from a U.S. point of view, 1850, well, then you begin to understand a lot of other things, because that's what the United States has done time and time again. But when another country does So in Syria, if the U.S. goes and support, the so called And the Russians go in to - [Audience] Assad. - Assad, the Americans The Russians can't, you know, It's a tit-for-tat thing, isn't it? So, you know, that's the answer there. That's how I look at this issue. - Is there someone over on this side? - Are we done? - No, no, pick on this side. There's a question right over here. Perhaps, if you would before you ask your question. - [Rob] Okay, my name is Rob Foreman, I work for the medical school here. I used to listen to you on - That was a long time ago. - [Rob] See the gray hairs? - Yeah, well-- (audience laughing) - [Rob] But I'd like to frame That I'm not so sure I what Russia did in interfering, although America has some of that attitude that you described, but who is largely considered to who does not have the interests is beholden to the Russians, what they did was comparable have done in Central America And on that basis, I guess my question is A, is accurate and B, why not? If not, because I don't know on what the Russians did who seems to be in the - Well, I would say this, it I'll say this to that, right. I will say this. What I said initially, was saying during the and what Hillary was saying, it's obvious to anyone that the Russians would support Trump, it's obvious. And Americans should understand that. Not because of what Trump stands for, not because he's a whatever the Supreme Court to be more conservative. Russians don't care about that. They don't even, it's not But they think about the and the United States. And judging from what he said, back then, their relationship could improve. And that's basically it on the one hand. On the other hand, you how many American senators, how many political figures said that the Russians were trying What does that mean? How so that the aim of the Russians was to somehow destroy American democracy? There's none of that. So I can understand what you're saying. But it really is not at all. It doesn't correspond to what Mr. Putin or the majority of people in or care about today. Today, there is much less support for Donald Trump in Russia than there was. People are asking themselves, He comes here and he says and says something completely different. You know, if today he says, to the same thing. So there are lots of questions. And there's kind of a, how should I put this? They don't take him too seriously anymore, except that he has enormous power. - [Alexander] My name is You touched on at the about how there's intense And just now you say that, would want to improve relations. Why do you think, how does very bad relations with of Americans in Russian minds? And also, do you think that like, is there a distrust of or dislike of Russians in America? - I think the word hatred is a bit strong and I didn't use it. I said that the attitude of Russians today towards American is more negative than it was back during the and I think it's mutual. And I think that that's the have said, what they've is doing in both countries. And I think it's an Because before Gorbachev in Soviet Union, excuse me, in this country, very and the Russians, you know, the Russians, oh, the Russians are coming (mumbles). But as soon as Gorbachev glasnost, perestroika, he became, you know, So I think that if there to change that attitude, it And that's why I say We are manipulated. And we all say, well, It's not true, we make our decisions, and we come to certain conclusions because of what we see and So, basically, that's it. I would say that certainly to get a much broader picture. In fact, we could communicate with the other side via the internet. It's not happening very So that the, how should I put could do a lot to change what's and it's a two way street. And I think it's people like you, that is to say of your age, they're the ones who for me, because you can do this. Whereas people of my age can do far less. So I would hope that, you might lead you to look into this. And I don't say to anyone, believe me. Trust me, heaven forbid. Look into it. That's all I would say. - So I was struck in both your talking and now your sort of mutual on both sides and I've about how this may or may not be different to what this picture looked - I wonder if you could recall, so just take the New York Times. I mean, I wonder if you what New York Times reporting about Russia about the Soviet Union - Yeah. - And whether you see a - Let me give you an example. Back in the 1970s, 1980s, all of the major television networks, which are the most powerful back then especially All three of the major networks, ABC, CBS, and NBC had bureaus in Moscow. The head of the ABC Bureau was a woman by the name of Anne Garrels. Well, that was a rare thing to have a woman as a chief. Not only that, but she spoke Russian and I'd like to tell you that the vast majority did not speak Russian, they And one day when, and I and I was doing the show that, you know, I did for Moscow radio. And we talked and she said, &quot;You should be on U.S. television.&quot; I said, well, you know, She called up Ted Koppel, you remember who he was right, Nightline? I hope he's not forgotten. (audience laughing) And she said, you know, dissidents on all the time, who represent 0.0 point something of the country of the Soviet Union, Why don't you put on someone the Soviet viewpoint and So I got on Nightline, and since I was not your typical Russian as far was concerned, who is this? I had great ratings and so I was on again and again and again. And then on NBC and Today, that wouldn't happen. I was allowed to argue on American television. I was allowed to do that. Ted would invite someone to rebut me and very often the we're not gonna do this 'cause Pozner is a pain in the what sits and we don't wanna talk Today, I would not get that possibility to be on a major network regularly. And that's what's changed. That's what's really changed. And I've come to think that or not official, and so It was an official censor, and the censor would read Today that doesn't exist in Russia. But of course there is the boss says no, you can't say that or you can't print that. So, and I'm talking about So I call that government censorship. But there's something that And it's just as effective. And what's happened with is that what used to be independent, you know, CNN belonged to CBS was created by William But gradually, many of were bought by larger companies. CNN, he sold it NBC, NBC was And so these very important became part of huge was then made very different. The attitude towards what media is supposed to do changed dramatically. I asked to the group of just try to find in the New York Times over the past three years, 2015, '16, '17, any positive article about Russia. One positive article, didn't find any. Not one, now I say myself, then what is it? I mean, there have to be people gee, they have good ice cream, you know, or they have great theater, and they do. And people are standing in And that's a nice thing, right? Give a more or less accurate, And that's the New York Times, And it's to me, it's because I was, you know, I for quite a few years until a man by the name of Roger Ailes, I don't know if you recall who that was, he killed our program Just didn't resume the So I know what freedom of the fence as it were. It's a different issue. So that's what I'm saying corporate censorship is just far more sophisticated - I think we're over on and people in the middle are also welcome to ask questions somewhere. We see a head way in the back. - Actually, you could lob the microphone. - [Rick] So, my name is Rick Schneider. I work with Rivendell Institute at Yale. - Where are you? - [Rick] Right here. - Okay, thank you. - [Rick] I'm also a visiting and currently at Bushka. - Yeah. - [Rick] So my question experience with leaders in Russia, do you sense any room for I mean, after all the, maybe the big sticking point right now in our relations is all of those sanctions, other than the Magnitsky, of course, but most of the sanctions and Donbas is a big problem. So, is there room for - I bet, first of all, because the key word is compromise. The key word is compromise. I had asked for the Is that still possible or is I wanna answer your question, because I wanna show something that I think is important. And I asked, oh my! (audience laughing) I asked that a map of Russia with Ukraine be put up on the screen and hopefully-- - [Technician] This will take, it'll take a couple of seconds. - I'm in no hurry, and a and Mexico be put up on screen. Now, let me go back to the Two totally independent and Fidel Castro decide for Russia to deploy Did they have the right Absolutely, two independent countries, and Fidel Castro was not So, is that, okay. So they make that agreement. And so it's begin bringing or the parts to assemble. And the United States discovers this. - [Technician] That's not the (mumbles). No, no, no. - And Kennedy says to the Russians, turn your ships around, And if that leads to And the Russians turn their ships around. But there was a compromise. Not made public in this Kennedy agreed to pull that were deployed in Turkey in exchange, because the Russian said, in Turkey right on our border, almost. You say our missiles are but so are yours. Take them out and we will not deploy ours. That was a compromise. Now, Kennedy asked that because it would kind of and blah, blah, blah, and then it was later. So that was a compromise. And it helped avoid World War III. Well, this is not yet happening-- - You may have to sort of ask folks to conjure in their minds. - All right, I will do that. - Yes, I think you wanted to-- - So now the Russian leadership sees NATO as an existential threat. Rightly or wrongly, that's not the point. The point is that that's And this is not politics. You know, why would you bring NATO closer and closer to In Latvia, it's on the border, in Estonia, it's on the border. Now, Ukraine is being, is moving westward, it's a complicated issue, the United States has played a certain role in It's moving westward. If it ultimately goes or whatever you wanna call it, then it's logical to surmise that Ukraine will join the European Union Now Ukraine has a border with Russia. Not only that, but Crimea, but I'm not, we can go about how Ukraine was not the point, but Sebastopol of the Navy, the Russian Navy, naval fleet of the Black Sea. So if Crimea remains Ukrainian, and if Ukraine becomes part of NATO, the Russian fleet won't be in Sebastopol, but the American 6th Fleet might very well be there. And NATO will be on And the Russians see this And they say, we will not permit it. Now, does that correspond No, it doesn't. When you talk about existential threat, you say, I don't care as in the Cuban Missile Crisis. You say, no, we don't We're not going to allow this. It is my opinion that been some kind of internationally that Ukraine would not for at least the next 50 years, there would be no Ukrainian problem. Why did I ask for a map of Well, the United States has a pretty large border with Mexico. Now imagine that you have That's not that hard to imagine. And imagine that the is not a big fan of the I think that too, is not But since it's a little it asks the Russians to or five divisions to be placed You think the U.S. would accept that? So why would the Russians accept this? That's what it's really all about. Does there have to be a compromise? In my opinion, yes. And the compromise has to will not become a member of NATO. And then the compromise is We get out, but there's the guarantee. Crimea is a different issue. There could be an agreement under international supervision. Let's see what the people of Crimea want. Do they really wanna be part of Russia or do they wanna be part of Ukraine? Or do they wanna be an I know that the answer And so does everyone. Which is why no one is even of the people who live in It's a tradition, it's existed But basically, that's my answer. Yes, you need a compromise. And if neither side is well, then we're in deep whatever. - We're over here for the next question. (man speaks in foreign language) I can't hear you. (man speaks in foreign language) You guys speak Russian? - [Man] No, I gonna switch to English. I just wanted to greet you in Russian. I've been following you Going back to tell and certainly, some of in Washington back in the Soviet Union. I'm from Ukraine, just for the record. So I certainly share your that you speak about. Today, however, I'm to accept your point of view. And I can't get rid of a like a legal defense the bad behavior of a person I'm certainly not naive or in any country, including And certainly, I do agree Not being an expert in this field, it's difficult for me to really know the exact chronological So it's difficult to and what was the effect However, in your presentation today, I think you certainly presented Mr. Putin as a positive peace loving person. And I'm not sure that I - I don't know, I don't. - [Man] Well, you certainly brought up a number of effects that who was continuously on the to the world, not just the United States, but the West was the However, his actions, not but overall, Eastern Ukraine. His pretty aggressive actions in Syria, certainly don't create that position. So I think there's a little either that's the United made that, created that who is a not an easy person to work with? (audience applauding) But certainly his actions in many ways, not just his actions, but of the military, Russian don't support that, that view. But to get to my question, I for discussion sake, agreed and maybe the Western to the image of Putin that you described. Putin is not only responsible of the Russian Federation, but and who contributed to his of Russia as somebody who in the way he runs the country, thank you. - That wasn't a question (audience laughing) I made a point of up to 2007. And up to 2007, Putin did that would speak of an It all happened after 2007. It happened in 2008 with Officially it wasn't but you know, so no big difference. And then all the other things but up until 2007. And so that Munich speech when you have to respect us, you our interest, the world is not uni polar, it is multipolar and we will Incidentally, that's why Not because he contributed to although they did, but he was lucky because the price of oil was high and so that certainly helped. But because people saw him to the American bully, and told him off. And that's where his Russia is back. We're up from our knees, And they have to take And we don't give a damn if you like us or you don't like us. But you know, Putin is our man. He is a true patriot. And that's where his strength lies. Now, if you talk about I would absolutely agree with you that A, he is authoritarian, B, he has pretty much stymied the development of democracy in Russia. I do not agree with basically almost all of his policies in Russia, I'm much more supportive than with his domestic views. So I have no argument with you. I did not present, I don't you know, a lover of peace. I was simply making the point you could not really And that well, I say find it, well in 2006 or in 2005, you know, I would say okay, fine. I don't know what, you know, And of course, Ukraine, with and have having been seen, because of the language, in a way the Russians, you was born in Ukraine. So the fact that Ukraine would leave, very painful to Russians, as it would be in, you but that certainly does that certainly does in what's happened in Ukraine. So I have no argument with you at all. But because of the in my opinion that were who has a very different How many years ago now, you I think that there was a And it was missed. And it's too bad for everyone. - There's a hand right up here. - [Anastasia] Hi, my name is So I grew up in Russia, now for five years. So we've talked a lot about and his international policy. But, you know, being the is there a future for Russia? Should we hope for anything better? Should we because you there is a big division in like some people just all we've got, and there But then, of course, with and I know you're not the fan of him. - No, I'm not. - [Anastasia] But, you know, there might be someone else. But my question is, should in terms of like for us for Russians? Should we hope for the future for Russia or should we just practice and forget about? - Well, you know, when I would have to ask what what do you mean? What would you like to change? What is it that that makes And my answer to that is, And the future is, let me The main problem, from my is that the leadership, all All the people who are and all the rest of They were born in the Soviet Union. They went to Soviet schools. They were members of the Young Pioneers. They were members of the They were members of the They were created, formed by a They're trying to run a system that they really don't And they're not very good at it. But whatever they do, is that they have. And that mentality is a Soviet mentality. And there's not much That's the way they were brought up. And you can't say, well, 'cause there are no others. And what I say is, in my people who are not born who were born afterwards, that is to say, the next generation and that's when you will see real change and you have to have patience. I have no doubt that And you know, during the worst times like the Tsar Nicholas Russia's greatest literature developed. So it's not that, it's not from that side, I certainly Not at my age, it's gonna But in all countries, it took over 200. And I guess there were gee, do we have a future? Because there were all kinds of things. You had slavery in the United States less than 200 years ago. Come on, since you have to So my answer to you is yes, But it's going to take time and you cannot do anything about that. Except that if you're young, you can look forward to a because those people will disappear. And it will be your ballgame. As a Yankee fan, I know what I'm saying. (audience laughing) - [Alec] I'm here, here, over there. - Oh, okay. - I'm a father of Yale undergrad. My name is Alec, we met 16 We spent a couple of days Remember that? But the question that we had very interesting about what made my family And, you know, and I actually and now I know my answer. But back then, I believe about my father who really, you know, after the conflict and Transnistria that was 100 kilometers from Odesa, when people all of a sudden You know, geopolitics, yeah, Tit for tat, we understand that. You know, the United States Southern border, NATO we all understand that. But with people going and in 10 years, people who it's not even Karabakh, and Azerbaijanis, we have They have some, you know, But whatever is going when neighbors killing I mean, do you really of Ukrainian language is Or these stories that were made up about, you know, Western Ukrainians, Nazis was gonna move in, how do we stop that? How do we stop people in situations like they can meet up in Minsk, you know, they can make agreements. They can disagree, you you know, money interest and kleptocracy that is so omnipresent in Russia and Ukraine, and everywhere. But how do we stop that? How do we stop? How can United States and and stop brothers from killing brothers? - Well, you know, if I had the answers to all of those things, I probably would be in a different job. No, seriously, I mean, I the world's problems. And, you know, people in many places in Africa, for instance, brother's killing brother and so on. And this is going on everywhere. But I would say that if the of the United States, of Germany, we're actually asking that question. That question they were asking. I think they'd find a way to answer it. But I don't think they're I think they're asking And they have very different aims. And that's why this is going on. So, to me, the answer is pretty obvious. How you make people do that, that's a different question. Why is it that egoistic take first place over these things. That's the real question. And when you say we understand, I don't know who you're talking about. Most people don't even know, where Georgia is for instance, Most people are really the level of knowledge is lower than the doorstep as they say. So there is no effort and that game at all. It doesn't say, how do we stop? It says they are to blame. And that's it, and on both sides. So I think the only way to make our voices heard. And that's not easy. And sometimes it's dangerous. But again, if you know, did I ever, no, of course not. There was a guy by the name, he is a German who fought he was the youngest Japanese, as they were called, submarines. And when Germany lost the war, And he became a priest, and very anti war. And as he went up the ladder And Hitler became the head of of the Protestant church in And he spoke out against war. And finally he was arrested, and he was sent to a concentration camp. But he survived. And when he came back, he wrote a book. And in that book, there's a because I think it's one and powerful things I've ever heard. He wrote, &quot;When they came for the Jews, &quot;I didn't say anything, &quot;And when they came for the communists, &quot;I didn't say anything, &quot;And when they came to &quot;I didn't say anything, &quot;of the trade union. &quot;And when I came for the Catholics, &quot;I didn't say anything &quot;And when they came for me, And I feel that, I very If we don't speak out, however we can, and not irresponsibly, and not but rather with this understanding that it's our human duty to do this, well, then we keep saying, That's, it's certainly very Russian. They should do it. And if they don't, then what? So that's really, that's my view. And it's an idealistic view, perhaps, but that's the way I look at it. - [Anastasia] Okay, hi, I'm here. So my name is-- - (mumbles) to the left. Coincidentally, I'm also (audience laughing) Lots of us here, I'm So you started your talk by the U.S. could have taken - Towards Russia. - Towards Russia, after and presented this as a we have right now. - Yeah. - So if we hypothesize with your knowledge of Russian politics, economy, that you mentioned, do you of Marshall Plan could - Well, you know, that's of how I answer, I can't prove So it's kind of as you say, But do I think that that than what they did? Yes, clearly, clearly, it To what extent it would I don't know. But I do know that when the media in Russia changed dramatically. And I think nobody would argue with that. Dramatically overnight, it During the Soviet times, into the Voice of America in Russian, The BBC World Service in Russian, the Deutsche Welle in Russian, because they were not getting that they were getting and the Russians tried to block that. The Soviet government did, trying to block them but As soon as Glasnost came, they were getting it They were getting the when they're getting any when they're not. Or usually they do. So that's one example of So I do think that had let's help them. Let's help them become democratic. I do think that it would the result would have been positive. I can't tell you how positive. So that's, you know, to your hypothetical question. - I think we have two more, time for two more questions, - [Acia] Thank you, my name is Acia. I'm from Yerevan, Armenia - Well-- - [Acia] Yeah, it is tiny, - You see it over there, right. That tiny little country - [Acia] Yes. - Okay. - [Acia] So I'm a doctoral but today I'm going to ask-- - You study what? - [Acia] Genocides. - Wow! - [Acia] yeah, a lot of fun. But today, I'm going to ask a question about current developments that happened right next door to Russia, and are very connected to what you talked, about speaking out the new the generation that maybe can change or may be the change. - Yeah. - And something like that no one ever expected that in such a tiny post could lead to change, which was and establishment of the government, which is totally and fully - Yeah. - And the funny question when I discuss this with is how come Russia did not intervene into these developments in any way? And I would really appreciate like, how come that Vladimir in any visual way to this development? And how was this even or was it observed, seen in Russia because it was next door. It was a big change. And some people were even as an example for other countries to topple their governments, - Well, one reason might be that perhaps Putin isn't quite the man you all think he is. You know, that's a possibility, I'm not insisting on it. Another reason might be that never expressed any On the contrary, said we are but look where we are. And we've always had very and we wanna have close There was no absolutely no And it was the people, there that was the people who spoke out. You know, Armenia is really What's the population now? Three million, and there was a Can you imagine 30% of comes out in the streets. You can't ignore that. And that's another reason. But the very question, reflects the way people think about it. Because that's the way it's been depicted. So, you know, that's my Well no, I'm not gonna go into that. One more question you say. - I think one more, yeah, So we're back on this side. I see a hand right next to you. Hello, you. - [Woman] Hi, I'm a and Russian studies. I guess my question is about the poisoning in the UK earlier this year. (audience laughing) - Finally, finally. - [Woman] Is there a way for that doesn't escalate, the kind - Yeah, you know, when this I was shocked and I tried to figure out for myself some kind of logic. Now, you know why, who Now, you know, let's I means she's, you know, she didn't do anything. Skripal, he was a military agent, right? He worked for the former Putin work to the KGB, which is military intelligence, and they can't stand the KGB, and the KGB can't stand That's normal competition. So, and he betrayed his country. Let's face it, right. He went over to the other for British intelligence. And he was caught, and he was tried. And he was sentenced to 13 years. Now, I don't know if you're to spies, who to turn and are then caught? Well, in wartime, they're shot. But in peacetime, well, like 30 years, 25, 13 is a weird sentence. Not only does he get this considering, but he's excuse me, Russian spies who were caught. Now if he was exchanged that means that he really didn't know He was no danger to the Russian side. So, you know, let him go Now, Putin doesn't like traiters, who does? If Putin wanted to kill him, he was in prison, he could do it. And you could say that or that he committed suicide or whatever. He was no problem killing They let him go, they exchanged him, they could have exchanged someone else, they exchanged him. What sense would it under those circumstances, Putin is anything but stupid. Not stupid, it's very risky. The risk of somehow this being Why do it, this is not a dangerous person. He can't do anything. He can talk about what So I try to find, I'm not I'm saying I'm trying to logic, not emotions, logic as in something like that. Alright, it's not Putin. It's one of those lower, you who think that Putin would But would Putin like it No, of course not, they get So why would they risk it? They're not gonna get Because if Putin had ordered it, then yes. So why would they do it? So to me, it really remains a mystery. Because it's stupid, It doesn't do anything positive at all. So am I denying anything? I'm not denying, I'm saying give me proof. Please, just show me, yes, there it is. Now this interview, did you see it? The interview of Rita, what's her name? Sonya, of those two two people. Did you see it? It was one of the most unprofessional pieces of work that I've ever seen. (audience laughing) That was just, you know, And it happened, you Putin had said these two and so they come the next It's laughable except So I would say to you that I find it hard to believe I really do, but somebody did. There's no doubt about it. And now I've heard a really nice story. You know that Mr Skripal in Britain, every time he'd meet with his he would be paid a you know, 5,000 pounds or 7,000 pounds, where if he felt he had something really interesting to say, 10,000 pounds. But again, he was of no real interest. So I'm thinking, and now I'm thinking, British intelligence we don't need this guy, And he's not kidding. Now, why don't we, and make Well, that's brilliant chap, So British intelligence poisons the guy, and the whole thing works this way. It's not impossible. I kind of laughed at myself And I'd like to talk to Mr. Incidentally, if you've not &quot;The Pigeon Tunnel,&quot; which is And the other one I He writes with total disgust that he was in for so long. I mean, really. So, you know, there it is. My answer to you is, I just don't know. It's such a weird thing, it really is. I see no reason for it. It's just invading another But this I don't know. It makes no sense. One day, we'll know the real thing. Oh incidentally, Salisbury, I don't know if you've ever been there. I was there, I shot a And so, you know why I went is I don't know, how many I have no idea. It's a beautiful, But it's because they have original copies of the Magna Carta. And that's the beginning of if you don't count the ancient Greeks, and I really wanted to see it. And they brought it out. And I can't tell you what, you And you say, what was it 1215 you can't put a man in that he's committed a crime. And you have all the kings It's amazing, that's why I went there. These guys didn't even They went to see the - All right-- - Let me thank everyone (audience applauding) (gentle music)