(SOFT INSTRUMENTAL MUSIC) NARRATOR: The animal kingdom... A remarkable collection breathing, natural wonders. Enthralling, impressive, tenacious, and nurturing. Innovative, tough, surprising, always genuine. Discover their past, present, and future. Just breathtaking. Just intriguing. Just tremendous. Just animals. Octopuses, chameleons of the sea. Not only are they they also have (SOFT INSTRUMENTAL MUSIC) and brilliant Along with squid, cuttlefish and nautiluses, they make up a group known as cephalopods. The name comes from the Greek, meaning &quot;head foot,&quot; an apt description of their While they may seem they're highly intelligent. (STIRRING MUSIC) From the tiny pygmy squid, barely the size of a fingernail, to its giant cousin, which grows longer than a school bus, these fascinating animals are more They are the colossal that put fear into ancient mariners, beings that captured the curiosity Remarkable for their and jet propulsion, these highly evolved animals from the surface (MUSIC CONTINUES) Despite all their talents, the majority will just long enough to breed, a short but spectacular existence for animals born to be different. (UPBEAT INSTRUMENTAL MUSIC) For a unique group of creatures, cephalopods still have with other members The absence of a backbone a classification that encompasses more than 95 percent Insects, spiders and crabs belong to the largest group collectively known as arthropods. The next biggest phylum a wide ranging collection of animals, including almost a quarter Its name comes from although most of its members This solid covering is secreted from a cloak-like called the mantle. It's a thin layer of tissue which and is one of the few that all molluscs have in common. Another is the &quot;foot.&quot; Although the form it takes For some it's a means of propulsion. (MUSIC CONTINUES) In others, it's a device The majority of molluscs have But a few lack Instead, they function Around the globe, it's estimated there are of these soft-bodied animals. With such diversity, molluscs are separated The gastropods It includes snails and slugs that live above and below from the common garden variety, through to vividly coloured Bivalves are another dominant class. Their hinged shell protects Clams, mussels and oysters The third largest class of molluscs They are the only group Most lack the characteristic shell but that doesn't mean Cuttlefish and squid have While the octopus has evolved the nautilus still has its All cephalopods have multiple limbs, but depending on the species, the numbers vary from less than 10 These appendages are designed Unlike most other molluscs, cephalopods are exclusively meat eaters. Cephalopods are the only mollusc meaning blood can only flow such as arteries and veins. This is far more efficient where the heart pumps blood As a result, cephalopods are faster (SOFT INSTRUMENTAL MUSIC) They're also more intelligent. Their advanced cognitive function is due to the largest of any invertebrate. Amongst cephalopods, there is an odd one out. Nautiluses are considered a throwback They're less developed than so form a separate subclass All six members lack that helps their close relatives Instead, they're forced to carry their multi-chambered shell around They also have an abundance of limbs 50 for females, up to 90 for males, more than any other animal The other three types of cephalopods to be grouped together They all have chromatophores, pigment cells that can be altered or help the animal (MUSIC CONTINUES) Ink sacs are another feature To confuse predators, they can release a dark cloud into the water. There are some obvious differences While those in the superorder have no internal shell, they all have eight strong arms to help them grip prey. (SOFT INSTRUMENTAL MUSIC) Squid and cuttlefish make up Just like their relative they all have four pairs of arms, but they have two additional long limbs that lack the strength but give them greater reach They also have at least There are four orders Cuttlefish have their own, as do their closely related cousins All remaining squid families except for the ram's horn Another one of a kind cephalopod Despite what its name suggests, this deep water organism but isn't classified While cephalopods generally share there is remarkable variation (UPBEAT INSTRUMENTAL MUSIC) In the world's oceans, it's estimated there are close to that come in all shapes and sizes. Octopuses account for They are a diverse group ranging from the comical, to the colourful, and the deadly. The common octopus is Growing to just under a metre long, it's only a tenth of the size the giant Pacific, but the common octopus's make it the most intelligent. It's found in the shallows around coral reefs Common octopuses of 15 to 16 degrees Celsius. During the hotter months, they'll swim deeper than usual Like all octopuses, they have venomous saliva the perfect combination to subdue, then slice up prey. The world's smallest octopus, the wolfi, weighs only one gram, the same as a paper clip. It lives in the shallows In contrast, the Dumbo octopus prefers depths The average Dumbo is An inhabitant of many oceans, these intriguing cephalopods are named after in celebration of their Like their cartoon namesake, they use their ear-like fins or propel themselves These flaps also help with steering. One of their smaller relatives from the waters of northern Australia couldn't look more different. This is an algae octopus. Growing to about six centimetres, these cephalopods live taking refuge in dens (SOFT INSTRUMENTAL MUSIC) The Indo-Pacific region hosts that look like twins, the mimic and wunderpus octopus. When their slender limbs they measure around 60 centimetres. The feature that helps are the longer eye stalks The coconut octopus is only of its more colourful cousins, but it's adept at disappearing. This resourceful animal will use to survive in the muddy substrate Its name comes from (MUSIC CONTINUES) And when carrying its home there are other ways to get about. The mototi is another small species. This one has It displays two blue rings to warn potential predators (TENSE MUSIC) There's no mistaking the threat posed The highly venomous uses colourful markings In nature, this type is known as Commonly found in tidal pools the blue-ringed octopus to take out 26 humans. Fortunately, they're generally shy and won't attack unless disturbed. A blue-ring's toxin the venom being stored The sand octopus lacks of its relatives. Instead, this mid-sized cephalopod (MUSIC CONTINUES) The bobtail squid employs It lives in the sand and mud of the Indian, Roughly the size of a thumb, this tiny cephalopod has apart from hiding during the day It's one of more than Included in their ranks are the largest and smallest On the dainty side which is less than half the size It's found around mangroves A glue gland on its upper body helping it remain undetected. The colossal and giant squids are at the other end (STIRRING MUSIC) Despite living in every ocean, these cephalopods are rare to see, as they prefer to remain at least Encounters with bigfin reef squid They grow to a less daunting and shelter around shallow reef in the warmer waters They're often mistaken for cuttlefish that extends the length (SOFT INSTRUMENTAL MUSIC) Pyjama squid cause Despite what their they're actually tiny members Their black stripes that these Australian cephalopods If threatened, they release a toxic slime The flamboyant cuttlefish is another small creature Most of the time, this unusual looking creature wanders the ocean floor but if it fears an attack, it takes on a different persona. By raising its membranes it signals to other animals (MUSIC CONTINUES) In comparison, the broadclub cuttlefish than face a predator. Growing up to half a metre, it's the second largest They are a shallow water species, found throughout in depths of less than 50 metres. Their bigger cousin, the giant cuttlefish, has a smaller, They're only found Its mantle measures 50 centimetres, but with the addition its length doubles. When not hunting for food, these gentle giants Finally, the nautiluses, the only group of cephalopods that don't seek the shelter (STIRRING MUSIC) These shelled animals in the Western Pacific descending below 200 metres then rising at night to hunt. If threatened, their only option Of the six species, the chambered is the most common. It's also known as due to its impressive shell, which can grow up to From the depths to the shallows, cephalopods have found a place in every ocean on earth. (SOFT INSTRUMENTAL MUSIC) For such simple animals, cephalopods have an impressive at their disposal. The most obvious is their ability to fool predators and prey. Octopuses, squid and cuttlefish skin cells made up of sacs of pigment that are controlled to alter the animal's appearance. When muscles contract, the cells expand, forcing the sac to the surface There are up to 200 for every square millimetre of skin, and they're responsible black, brown, orange, red and yellow. (MUSIC CONTINUES) Blue, silver and green hues are produced by a second layer These plates of protein can reflect to help the cephalopod make Octopus and cuttlefish changing their skin texture This complex process is achieved known as papillae. When muscles contract, Octopus or cuttlefish for up to an hour. But, if they choose to swim their cover is blown. As soon as their muscles relax, the skin smooths out, to reduce drag The algae octopus The algae-like filaments on its body make it look like a clump tumbling on the sandy floor. (STIRRING MUSIC) To deter predators, both the mimic and wunderpus octopus prefer to impersonate If under threat, they can transform or banded sea krait. While squid don't have some species have their own trick They're able to produce light energy through a chemical reaction These blinding flashes both predator and prey, giving squid the advantage While many cephalopods to react to visual stimuli scientists suspect Octopuses, cuttlefish and squid all have large eyes that function but they lack the red, we use to determine colour. (SOFT INSTRUMENTAL MUSIC) These cephalopods are more advanced, in how they deal with Their eyes can see through and create an accurate picture or in the case of cuttlefish, what's behind them as well. Their unique &quot;W&quot; shaped pupils give them a wide range allowing them to switch between forward and backward views. As with most aspects the eye in a nautilus than its fellow cephalopods. Their pinhole pupil depending on light intensity, but the image it provides is of Fortunately it has an excellent sense Nautilus have an ingenious way as they slowly travel vertically between the depths and shallows An adult's shell can have all connected by a soft tube To dive deep, the animal floods To rise up, Cuttlefish have a similar system They adjust the levels in their porous internal shell But that's not their only means Along with octopuses, several species of cuttlefish how to use their appendages to walk. This technique is used when staying close to the ocean floor All cephalopods have a more efficient jet propulsion. They draw water then expel it at pressure Some species of squid and octopuses can achieve speeds using this method. But they can only sustain that pace (MUSIC CONTINUES) Regardless of the challenges all cephalopods have developed to survive life in the sea. (SOFT INSTRUMENTAL MUSIC) Cephalopods come from dating back to before the dinosaurs. Their earliest ancestors lived evolving from an ancient group These primitive cephalopods and lived on the ocean floor. Over time, coiled shells evolved, which were stronger and allowed The addition of buoyancy control greater scope to hunt Nautiluses are of these early cephalopods, earning them the title While many of their relatives in favour of heightened intelligence nautiloids held onto theirs, which scientists believe It's been theorised that hit the earth 66 million years ago. This catastrophic event and causing oceans to turn acidic. Researchers think that nautiluses by staying deep and By slowing their heart rate they were able to live off the air Most cephalopods As fish and marine mammal numbers members of the mollusc family against these swift swimmers and became targets themselves. For every species of cephalopod 20 others have perished an estimated loss of close to In the modern world, their relatives are a diverse bunch. With their noticeable head gastropods such as have obvious traits As do chitons, (SOFT INSTRUMENTAL MUSIC) Soft bodied bivalves, are part of the family, but the similarities While researchers have learnt by studying their fossils there continue to be large gaps This is particularly true which leaves behind The fact they exist a testament to their ability (UPBEAT INSTRUMENTAL MUSIC) Cephalopods are the loners and for very good reason. With their reliance on stealth, rather than speed, for hunting, their solitary existence means When it's not feeding, an octopus will sometimes rearranging rubble less obvious to predators. Any gap in the reef Their pliable bodies as long as it's larger The only time octopuses is when it's time to mate. (MUSIC CONTINUES It's a similar story for cuttlefish, solitary for most of their lives, except during the breeding season. Instinct brings giant cuttlefish off the coast of South Australia. The only time these normally placid is when they're trying to mate, males asserting their dominance Some species of squid are more social choosing to swim in schools, They will opt for close to the surface, clustering in loose formations when they're most vulnerable Cephalopods are not known but they sometimes travel between spawning and feeding grounds. They might not be the most social but these perceptive, are well equipped to live (SOFT INSTRUMENTAL MUSIC) For most cephalopods, life is short. Consequently, mating is so they make it A male octopus puts on Even at his psychedelic best, his advances But with persistence, his potential partner Sperm &quot;packets&quot; are transferred to the female via a specialised arm This is the common for most cephalopods. After a successful delivery and the female swims off to deposit up to 100,000 eggs. In a rare display she will stay with her brood to ensure they remain unharmed. Mating is more of an &quot;all in&quot; affair They come together where competition is fierce. At this breeding site there are twice as many males and they will do whatever it takes Like the octopus, they show their &quot;true colours&quot; This male is displaying red to warn others A female can mate over a number of days. She stores multiple sperm packets until she decides which is the most The largest and most dominant males and they're not above using to ensure their success. It's not uncommon for a male to flush out any other before depositing his own. They will then stand guard When the female is ready to she will choose somewhere protected, away from the current, placing each one individually to give it the best chance The process is slow going This will be the last Like most cephalopods, the male and female will die Over the next two months, the contents of these tiny sacs With no adults to guide them, they emerge with an instinct to hunt. Inside the egg, of small fish and crustaceans These will become (SOFT INSTRUMENTAL MUSIC) Squid have a similar start to life. In patches of seagrass, the mother distributes all coated in a sticky mucous Months later, the tiny hatchlings will be swept up During this in between these youngsters become Growth is rapid. Starting at just they increase in size Yet only a few will survive Octopuses, squid and cuttlefish As semelparous animals, they will only mate once. Their life expectancy is between depending on the species. A nautilus can survive As they get older, they add chambers to their shell so the size of their &quot;home&quot; becomes a reliable indication They can reproduce multiple times making them an anomaly Octopuses, squid and cuttlefish pack a lot into their short time their cycle of life ending (SOFT INSTRUMENTAL MUSIC) In the marine food chain, cephalopods play an important role, both as predators and prey. In the Southern ocean, squid are second only to krill as a food source such as sperm whales and albatross. Near the surface, dolphins and seals are known (TENSE MUSIC) Deeper in the water column, the biggest threats are sharks, moray eels, and other large fish. Cephalopods are none more so than the octopus. These cunning carnivores come (MUSIC CONTINUES) Other molluscs and crustaceans but fish, baby turtles, and other octopuses, are all up for grabs. These cephalopods have covered in hundreds of suckers that create a tight seal The largest suction cups on can hold up to 15 kilograms, more than its own weight. These remarkable devices Before taking a bite, an octopus can taste its meal Should their catch venom is delivered from the beak, not enough to kill the animal, but sufficient to paralyse it. This toxic dose has another purpose. It dissolves tissue that connects a mollusc's or crustacean's shell making consumption easier. An octopus can often be tracked down known as middens, outside their den. All cephalopods to tear their meals It's important the food is small because their oesophagus runs before reaching feeding their most essential organ Octopuses have huge appetites, which means they have a major impact Researchers in California in the local octopus population was responsible for a in gastropod and hermit crab Squid are also good eaters, consuming close to a third Along with cuttlefish, their diet is similar to the octopus. These hunters having the bonus that can stretch out longer These also have suckers to better grasp their prey. As cuttlefish grow their diet shifts from crustaceans to fish and other cephalopods. These foods provide more energy, allowing them to take on (SOFT INSTRUMENTAL MUSIC) For cephalopods it's a case of as mid-level players For animals that pose cephalopods have often been cast With their long limbs octopuses and giant squid were regularly portrayed that instilled fear In Scandinavian folklore, these giants are known as Kraken, mythical Nordic creatures capable of drawing ships down The Romans revered them An early mosaic depicts an octopus In Polynesia, they are known as Kanaloa, a god of the underworld Over time, their mystical qualities have been surpassed The reddish-brown ink of cuttlefish was once used Known as sepia, it was so similar to the colour the term has stuck, and now refers to a special effect applied to digitally enhanced The darker ink from squid to add flavour and colour Intricate nautilus shells prized for their delicate patterns These accomplished divers to a fantastic submarine that literary character used to explore Up at the surface, cuttlebones are collected These porous, internal shells are a source of calcium Whether they're seen as useful trash powerful gods or fearsome leviathans, these ocean-dwelling creatures on civilisations across the globe. (SOFT INSTRUMENTAL MUSIC) At a time when many oceanic animals populations of squid, are thriving, and that's no coincidence. This adaptable trio caused by extreme climate change Typically, the top predators These fishing habits on cephalopod populations. Fewer of these soft-bodied animals Plus, they experience With their limited lifespan cephalopods have learnt to any disturbance They are also highly tolerant A warm change in sea temperatures but when conditions aren't ideal, they can delay their maturation. (MUSIC CONTINUES) In one such case, a population of Humboldt squid postponed breeding and in the process Researchers have found squid to handle rising levels produced by the burning Cephalopods are notoriously but based on commercial there has been a substantial increase Unfortunately, nautiluses Demand for their attractive shells has caused their numbers to plummet. Since 2017, this ancient creature Scientists are cautiously optimistic that nautiluses are beginning from their population depletion. (STIRRING MUSIC) Overall, cephalopods despite their soft bodies. These intelligent molluscs have learnt to adapt using their long list of talents to make the most These are the survivors of the sea, the nautilus, squid, cuttlefish, and octopus. Captioned by Ai-Media