Hey guys, Toby Mathes here. And today Which are these Spousal lifetime access trust. I think that's what it stands for, but, But I brought an expert to go over it are using it. Like this is the go to trust for estate as they're dealing with the expiration you'll get to know about here and I brought on John Anderson, John, welcome. Glad to see you. Good to see you. So we're going to have to get into this. And I think what we do is and, John is a, expert all the time, sees other people's And we can talk about what a SLAT is they're using them for, how you're going to get pitched or estate planner, the bad and the ugly So let's do 10,000ft view. John, what is a SLAT? What does that stand Yeah. So SLAT Spousal lifetime access trust is a type of irrevocable trust where one spouse creates it and gifts assets into this trust. So transfers, certain assets into it. And the beneficiary of the trust So if husband creates a trust and he's got, you know, some properties those properties into this trust, She can get the income and, and possible Why would anybody do this? Like, like, hey, we're married. We have access to each other's assets. If you're in a community property state, what's mine is hers or what's mine is his, Why is somebody use this? So the main purpose of it is to reduce estate taxes. if you take an asset and you give it away to someone else, let's say, and then you pass away. The estate tax is based off of the assets And if I've given it away, it's Then I don't have to pay taxes on it. I don't have to pay the estate tax on it. So the idea is we're giving away assets to your spouse through a trust. And because they're in this trust they're not subject to the estate tax. Now, I could give an unlimited amount to my spouse anyway So is this more to preserve the exclusion? And like as we sit here today, is 13.61 million, And then the married is double that, So I actually I know yeah. what is that 27.22 million. Right. So is the idea that I'm preserving both halves So this is really for people million threshold So the way the estate tax works is it's either assets that you pass on or it's gifts So if I, if I made and when I die instead of 13.6 I would only have 12.6 million So when we're making a gift to the trust, we're using up the exemption as it is Now, with the Trump, tax cuts, part But that's going to sunset So right now it's 13.6 million. And so I can make a gift for 13.6 million any tax implications. necessarily right now there are other But if that gets cut in half when the tax, Trump tax cuts, sunset, I've already moved it out So I can kind of take advantage as opposed to just waiting to see All right. I accumulate assets and I pass away, me under an estate tax Correct. Is it going to be It's the net value. So let's just say that I have a business but it's worth 10 million bucks right now. I don't have anything to worry about at least at the federal level, You know, it's a to look at your state too, but at because it's below the 13.61 threshold. Or if I'm married, I could go all the way But the Trump and that's going to move down to I believe So it's probably gonna be around Right? Yeah, about 7 So I could still be But if I, if I'm married, I'm still okay under that circumstance, And, let's just say my estate is worth 20 million, then I know that I could give away half of it to my spouse it is something that I could lock in. Correct. If I use up my exclusion, to my spouse, we're eliminating the estate Everybody pays it on the first dollar It's going to be horrible. I would still be okay, right? Correct. If you made the exclusion is of that year. Now you have to use the full amount. So for example, if I only made a gift of 7 million and it does sunset back down to 7 million, I don't get the 7 million on top of what the exclusion would be reset to. I have to either use the full 13 million what it's going to reset to, So this is really for people million of assets At least 14 million. Okay. So let's go through the math. Let's just say that I'm worth 25 million and I don't do this. I pass away in 2025 where the estate And I'm okay. I live until January 1st of 2026 and I pass away, you know, in the morning of 20 of the of the new Year, Now, what would it be like You'd use the exclusion of at least one And, I guess I could give the rest of it That spouse passes. Now we're looking at some serious Right now we're looking at having, million subject to taxation. Yeah. So you'd have 18 million at a 40% tax. Yeah. Well, you'd get both. You'd still get your 7 million each. So you get 14 million. That would be nine. Yeah 11 million. So I think what practitioners are doing wealth category at 25 million or whatnot, hey, let's give 13.6 to your spouse so we can lock it in. So the difference and under the difference And then you can use your exclusion So worst case scenario We use our $7 million exclusion Now we only have 5 million subject to tax million in my my state in that correctly. Correct. All right. So now we've got that out of the way. So this is a trust irrevocable trust. And what does it do. So you transfer the asset into the trust. And you have a trustee who's The beneficiary is now your spouse. But they're going to have limitations The assets for. So they can't just take the money. No. What can it be used for. So it depends on a couple of different one is who is your trustee? A lot of times the way that I've seen it that, well, you can have your spouse And that is true. But the more connected the trustee is to the beneficiary, the more limitations use the assets for. So if it's if your spouse then you're going to be limited which is help So spouse wants a Lamborghini spouse. Like let's say that I do this. I put this money into this trust. I've lost control of it. Correct. Like like let's say it's myself I put this in a trust, a spousal lifetime access trust. She is the trustee. She's the beneficiary. I'm done. Right. I can't touch that money. I can't control it. Correct? Correct. Yeah. You've got to be out of it. If you have what we call incidence still on the trust in some way, So the whole idea is to get it Okay. And then in my case let's just say my spouse can only use that for health So if she wants to go buy a Lamborghini Well, it depends. the way that the courts have interpreted is they say that you can maintain as to what you are accustomed to. So if you were, you know, frugal you only bought Toyotas your whole life. then that's all you can do after that. You can't use it to the trust being created. So if you want to be able and you got to buy a Lamborghini and maybe you can buy a Lamborghini. But even that is a bit of a stretch. and you got to be careful, right? Because if the spouse is in control It's going to be like you weren't Correct. But it can it can even go so far you know, a smaller home, if you wanted to upgrade your home, because you have to maintain whatever the same standard But let's keep in mind that that's for the the SLAT, right? I'm still alive. So in my case, I put the money So I know that I'm getting a 13.61 And I know that now. And by the way, you can give a spouse It's just when they pass away, you're But here we're saying, and you still have access to that money. You're never going to starve, without you're going to maintain your But I'm still alive. It's where So what happens if you do this? Your spouse goes out, you end up in a divorce. What happens to that money? two things can happen. Either the spouse keeps it. Or a court can, judicially dissolve But you do not get your exemption back. You. So you're done with the 3.61. It's done. Yeah. Once. Once you make that gift, So if they undo it, or do I still get to use those monies If it gets undone then no, that's those assets are going to be counted so you used up all your exemption, and you're out of exemption to be able So that can be a 4 to $5 million mistake. Correct. If that happens. So that's it. Hey, baby. We can't get divorced. It's going to when you pass away. It's going to cost the kids $5 million. We got to stay together. That's your argument. But otherwise it's not it's Right. They're either keeping it would it be under the same terms of the, So like if you, you get divorced, the other assets to the court I mean, the courts are going and weigh the options or you I mean, you can negotiate it with your how you want to do the split. So technically you could create, an agreement where they keep the SLAT, maybe you get some of the other assets, but they're going to But it's not your property. So I guess a separate property. That's one of the beautiful things Your spouse is like, this is mine. It's not ours. This is mine, not yours. we probably haven't seen much of that. Have you seen any cases Yeah, yeah, it has happened. And a lot of times community property states where it does where the court can basically separate it because in order to make the gift you have to create an agreement and then you can transfer it And then there's limitations So it's truly a gift. And there's then there's restrictions. Do you, let's just talk about you'd use this other than so why you would use a SLAT Not really. So if you want asset protection or other types of benefits, that you can get from irrevocable trust, than using a SLAT. It's it could do it, but it's like using a the wrong size screwdriver for, for you know to to put in a all right. So I got to get my head around this What goes wrong on these? I mean, you've seen a ton of these. I know you're reviewing them What do you seeing? Are the biggest problems Yeah. So the probably the biggest way these is the reciprocal document doctrine. this is a court doctrine that basically says if what if each spouse creates a SLAT and you basically create them assets into them, wasn't for estate planning, which is what It's simply for tax avoidance. And under the tax code, just simply for the purpose of Yeah. So this is so anybody out there all these things are great, And my spouse would do one for me here. You may as well not have done it. The courts are just going to nix it It wasn't. It was it was tax motivated transaction. We were going to put you back Yeah. So that that happens a lot where The the documents were identical. The only difference was The date that they signed The funds that they wanted to put into it was telling them to put into it was identical. luckily they hadn't fully funded it yet. And I told them, do not don't do it. Don't put any more into these. it's all going to get undone So that's that's a big one. And that's pretty obvious if you're practitioners not aware of it, has no idea it exists, that's the, seemingly attractive points. I will divide it up, will use If, Congress doesn't act, you know, 20, 26, And, you know, spousal together So if you're above that point, and this is going to start, you're You're going to have somebody talking about it saying, hey, We should lock down your gift. And if we do this now, then you never have to worry about it It's going to go down. It's going to get eliminated. It's Whatever they do, they're selling you Now, we know that we have the reciprocal What else do we have? That's that's a way to pierce this thing So another common way where either you retain too much control over the assets, you know, maybe they say, oh, well, you you may have given up this asset, that you have certain abilities to maybe promise, if you retain those powers, Or the other one I see a lot into the trust, but you don't file when you make the gift, I see this all the time where the 709 was never filed Right? Maybe they did this ten years ago and we were just dealing with that And they never filed. they never filed it. They just didn't. They keep saying, oh, we made a gift but there's nothing to back it up mom and dad continue to even make payments on things And it was like that You guys just said because we said it Yeah. You got to remember. Oh, and when the IRS audits these, the burden of proof is not on the IRS. The burden of proof is on your estate. And so they have to produce this is a completed gift. This is the amount. This is the proof. So if you transfer a business and you just say, oh, it's worth Did you have a professional business how do we know what the value of that gift actually was when the gift was made? Or did you make Did you actually, you know, show the value of those stocks on that So there's an all of this paperwork until at least three years So because your family has to file a, an estate tax return after you die, and then that's when the statute And they have three years after that and audit you. So you have to have all of this If they ever do come back to audit you. What usually happens with these do they just automatically distribute Does it go to a living trust? Does it go to some other trust? What happens to this? Usually the trust. The trust itself will identify and then I mean, There's, you can have it immediate, create something where you have a legacy There's lots of different ways Okay. So we went over a couple of things. The reciprocal trust document and or anything else that can cause this thing Another way that the trust will often get pierced through is the if so. So we talked about hems But if you start taking benefits, from the trust or your spouse takes out a bunch of money conveniently transfers it into the bank spending all the money No, that's a problem. So you've got to be careful about Is it going into an account And are they the one that is Or are you having control over that account Because it's not hems for you, it's hems You can throw your kids in there too, All right. Now, this isn't the first time I want to say like it was We had we had the same thing. Or one year It was unlimited. I think that was the year the Yankees owner, passed away even though he had billions of but I remember one case where some kids, were the benefit beneficiaries of a limited partnership via gift of dad transferring a building into it, very little basis. And then when dad passed the estate tax, and it wasn't even there, but they lost their step up in basis, there would have been no tax. So the year that dad actually did to where there would have been no tax. But because they did the gift ahead And now these kids, it was several million dollars of tax that that would not have been there. But for the fact that dad got and did this transaction, is that the same Yeah. So if an asset is not subject it does not get a step up in basis. So just step up in basis. Just explain that maybe quick. Yeah. So step up in basis. If I buy a property for $100,000 And if it's worth $200,000 and I sell it, between the basis So if I die and it's worth $200,000 now my basis resets to the fair So now my basis or the basis in the asset And so if it's sold immediately because the basis and the sale price Yeah. So let's say it's a case and you take 10 million Five years later, that thing's worth The estate tax is But now when you go to your kids, instead of having a, hey, and now I'm going to have the difference We have a $5 million tax hit. That could be capital gains. For example. Maybe it's long term capital gains plus the 3.8 plus year state. You could be you could be looking at many, That didn't have to happen. If you just left it alone. So I'm always one of those guys I'm like, don't be gifting those assets. I see why people would use the SLAT here, substantial net worth. If we have the people 30 million, 40 You don't want to get completely smashed, coupled with some other strategies. Maybe they're they're looking or, you know, giving some assets But I'm trying to figure out other Is that literally am I missing it, or are there other No, that's that's pretty much it. As to reduce the estate taxes. All right, John, that somebody else needs to know about these things I think another way that these kind of can come back to bite you is, you know, We're not doing So we're just going to use one we're going to save our spouses exemption So I use up all of my exemption. And I gifted in everything to my spouse. And then my spouse dies. Everything that I had given to Right? I may have gotten being able while my spouse was alive. Right? But now that they've passed away, everything moves on and I have nothing. So a lot of times what you're doing which spouse is going to die first. And I have seen it many times where the wrong spouse dies first. So the the assets are now moved on the you no longer and it can create some, some pretty bad issues. And there's probably advisors out there saying, don't worry, No you can't. No. Right. The more you try to draft around it, the less likely it's going to be a gift interesting stuff. Mr. Anderson. I appreciate you coming on Is there anything else that that these folks would need to know I would make sure if you are talking to someone about the SLATs look into other ways as well, because the SLAT is not the only way There are other types of irrevocable trust There's charitable giving that can be used and sometimes that may be a better option So make sure if you're working with someone to do estate tax planning, that you get all of the options, that seems beneficial at this time, marketers are doing. They're trying to push people into one product, saying, but it's not the only option. And estate and there are a lot of pitfall pitfalls So make sure that the person multiple different options, if the SLAT you feel like then you can use it at that time. So, I'll say this. I'll put John, in the show notes, if they want to have a discussion just type in strategy Just type in the the word strategy. And, we'll set you up with somebody and see what it would take to either what somebody else is proposing to you so please reach out and, since we're And if you know of anybody that could benefit from this information, John, thanks again for joining us. Thanks for having me.