(dramatic music) to be a Marine - He was so alive And he cared about what he did. There was just something very - Between his characters and the real life Gunny, He's a giant teddy bear. If I were to describe my really loving and really caring. He was definetly always the He was a made everybody laugh. He was compasonite and caring. Using his celebrity status to difference in the lives of veterns. -No one seems to want except for the veterns. The that the government - Gunny would say the to help a veteran is and he's and example of that. He was as authentic - Full Metal Jacket probably Obviously the best-lookin' in my opinion. - He makes you wanna of mannerisms and respect. He was funny, he had so many It was humbling for me. - I learned more from that guy He wanted to be doing - He treated his fans like that he had not met yet. And the things to really make a difference we went to, it's priceless. (dramatic music) special tribute the one, the only, Gunnery Best known to fans around Gunny left us all too during our ongoing mission You know, after every at the end of every day that Gunny would look around Now for him, it the next shot or He was asking about our next mission for because he thought of every single one of them. Gunny had a mission. When he stepped in for Military Makeover, on the service, sacrifice, served in the military. So join us, as we honor Gunnery Sergeant R. Lee Ermey, Corps, Retired. The Gunny. (dramatic music) - Ron was trouble from He was, I would just say You know, no really bad damage, mischievous things was 15, 16 years old, and at the school, when he didn't have and finally ended up goin' into the juvenile court. After the judge looks he said, &quot;You know, the &quot;you only really have &quot;You, your parents, your &quot;'cause you're a troublemaker, to resolve that. &quot;So you're gonna either go into juvenile hall. &quot;Your other alternative is that At the Yakima Courthouse Navy and Marines. He went to the Navy and and the Nay said, &quot;we have no use for So he went next and the Marines said, &quot;We'll straighten you out.&quot; - [Narrator] So, in 1961, compelled by a judge's order, In the Marines, Lee and entered the military By 1965 he was a preparing other young Remarkably, living and loving shape his future. Sent to Vietnam, he were on the front lines brutality of the war. It was shrapnel that ended his dream of a Actually, he would Once a Marine, always a Marine. - For him, the military And that's why it - [Narrator] As Stanley Kubrick world were to discover, that could not be denied - What did our family think acting career? My mom was really quite proud, he wasn't so happy about it. My brother was in when he got the big offer I remember him calling me for this movie If you fast forward, was gonna introduce the movie that my parents So, my dad's &quot;You're not gonna believe this, up, took us to Seattle and we walk in,&quot; nobody there.&quot; He said, &quot;That's when I was told &quot;for just your mom and I.&quot; where I realized (piano music) the restaurant in Manila. Lee was going to school, my 20th birthday. I notice him because that were playing He came back with an apple and after that he every day to see me. This necklace remind me of him. To be Mrs. Gunny is hard, person (laughs). But I am also proud to be - People have often asked me was like Lee Ermey boot camp. He tried to be a disciplinarian, every harsh word He was full of contradictions. He was the toughest guy, Hard, but kind. Eccentric. Patriotic. - He made every day even if it was just to pick up some milk. We would go on family car rides and he would sing, but it always over and over again. It was really bad, - Hey yo Gunny, - Said rap? Its SITREP. - Sitrap. - SITREP, not sit rap. It's, gah, SITREP, SITREP, (rap music) Yo, Gunny, yo - SITREP, not rap. Right on time Mad cap (rap music) hey, you alright? You zoned out on me - You're making me crazy. - My father loved comedy. He actually had done back in the 70s just to to help pay the rent, actor at the time. - The Gunny enjoyed of different roles as an actor, he liked comedy, And if you talk to him he would say that his role - All these different one of them, his was Fletch Lives, Jimmy Lee Farnsworth. And he said, &quot;Jack, I &quot;the sleazeball minister, And it was great. - This is The Gunny Come on Art, that's attention. - Oh, sorry. - What is it, take 20? - No, I thought that that ... - I'm trying, okay? - You'd never make - I am trying. (dramatic music) I feel so privileged Military Makeover. What an honor. - And it's really important that we present to you, the viewer, and entertaining manner. - But we all know who the America's men and women Those who have willingly gone We must never forget the - And the reward of a hug, for your service, Take care of their We should always remain - Good job, Art. Semper Fi. - I remember when that this guy R. Lee Ermey Military Makeover. I was like oh, wow, okay. And I looked him oh no, that guy! You know, from And I was like I'm dead. I mean, this guy's gonna - Art! - Hey Gunny, I just finished like you told me to. - That's a beautiful thing. Me and the boys are so with us out of the way place spic and span back in the morning. What do you think? - I, I thought we were - Art, you thought wrong. Why don't you do Throw us to commercial. - I guess Military Makeover - Bringing Gunny to the show was One of our associate and had a magazine ad, And in the ad was Gunny. I looked at her and I said - When I found out he I had to go back and Mississippi Burning, Seven, the voice of But he also knew He was there to and why we were doing this. - With all due respect, to pitch in where we can, - The Gunny was the He was the perfect fit. He just personified and once we had the anchor, him fell into place. - I'm Gunnery join me and a platoon of for another Military Makeover. Okay boys, I want to saws sawing. (whirring) - How are you? - Nervous. Excited. We had nothing. Literally nothing, help out here. - [Gunny] Wow. So we've Your gonna love the kitchen. - From not having even to just everything they did. I mean just getting or a dining set that meant a lot to me had a place to eat. That really did and it gave me hope. - Deep in his heart he was to be motivator in chief how to take care how to give back to them. And just spreading that message (military rhythm on drums) people to attention, in my military mind to go to attention You're not good but I tell you one thing And that is the deck. You call it flooring, Now, inside this house 1,000 square feet of deck. You have got about 20 and get this done. You got it, go! Make it happen. - Ultimately, I know the giving these veterans a home have a new beginning. - White, I come what do I see Jen? I see white. Everything is white. What are you gonna - Isn't white a color? (laughs) - I know. - White is a non-color. - I know, but I'm it's gonna be amazing, Trust me. Oh my gosh, working is absolutely amazing he's a film icon. And I know he really believes and I know he probably - White doesn't work. We gotta go something Jennifer comes in, and by it looks like home, not I can't call this a job. It's a habit that I have. But it's a fun habit, And anything that helps That's the way it is. It's beautiful. - You know, everything Everything was, you that's who Gunny is. That's who Gunny, like He's faithful, veterans and military. - I always wanted one of That'd look good out Now, now we're talking. Tank. - Tanks. - This is a big old tank, That's a big sardine can. Now, you were You know, Extortion 17. Are you okay, do you feel good - Absolutely. - Okay. - Yes. - Would you mind telling what's going on? - Well, I was a Chinook guy. My crash was Extortion 17. My chopper went The second Extortion 17 crash of Seal Team 6 all 31 were killed. - Oh. - Yeah, it's uh... - That, that's bad. - It's tough to be in the because I'm still So, having two crashes it's tough to deal He was very careful of his words that subject is. Of course I wanna because I want those men And so, it was a proud moment fallen soldiers, basis as the Gunny was. - The Gunny had a that he never lost For me to manage him, immediately, that - He always wanted to try or veterans. That was his family. They were all brothers. - You know, as I travel I do find one idea that We all support, and the great folks who to our security and safety. Protecting us, running when there's an emergency. You gotta admire those guys. - You can tell he's genuine he feels and does. He's not doing it for publicity he truly has a huge heart to help veterans. The world needs a few - The last time that Lee came he was not feeling well. Some Marines were coming up sure enough he showed up Marines that were there, And he stayed with them. He took pictures, That's the kind of guy he was. He gave so much time - Military service and of our country is a big deal. Our military and all are a big deal. We need to be there for them in any way we can. (hard rock music) like we did it. Another Military - Everybody's happy. The tears that you not of sadness. You know what I always take that veteran - Gunny, I'm gonna but I'm not giving a hug. - Oh, come on. (laughing) has left the scene won't be filled. You know, for five years, Military Makeover. And we found it And we're so fortunate incredibly deserving Our passion and commitment if it wasn't for the of our dear friend, R. When we started it, It's now a true passion, Gunny may have left us, can still hear his voice right next to me saying, The Military Makeover We're on it, Gunny. (poignant piano music)