- Nothing brings me more better understand the tool they have to live their life on purpose. We have this magnificent brain, and it has different predictable parts, and the better we get to then we have more power over who and how we wanna be in any moment. The brain does not have We can actually understand and then behave in ways and more peace. It thrills me. I love brains. I am Dr. Jill Bolte Taylor. I'm a neuroanatomist, and the author of &quot;My Stroke of Insight,&quot; and &quot;Whole Brain Living.&quot; I'm a neuroanatomist. I study the anatomy of the brain, so I can visualize in of how all the information comes in in order for me to be able to have a perception of reality. When we look at the human brain, it has emotional tissue and the left hemisphere, and it has thinking tissue and in the left hemisphere. So we end up with these four modules of cells, that result in very specific skill sets, resulting in very specific personalities that we all exhibit. So we have left thinking that and it's what we call our It categorizes and organizes, it has language, and then another group of cells places meaning on top of that. I know when I'm being analytical and organized and I'm planning or I'm counting one plus one equals two- I know that that's my left The left emotional part of our brain has miraculously stepped out of the present-moment consciousness and given us the ability to or to project ideas into the future. Now, with that, I can create as the linearity across time. And now because I have I can learn from my past experiences. The right emotional part 'How does it feel to be in my What does it feel like and I feel the pressure What does it feel like I'm not on the clock. I've got this excitement, and And then my right thinking tissue is simply the consciousness of me, big as the Universe, connected to all that is. And this immense sense of &quot;Oh my gosh, I'm alive!&quot; We are living creatures made And there's an awe and a wonder, and this deep sense of gratitude. Once you start realizing the four different and being able to you can't not see it anymore. And once you understand it, it's like, &quot;I have so much more power of my brain than anybody It's beautiful. So I grew up to study the brain because I have a brother who's diagnosed with a brain disorder, schizophrenia. So my focus was on, how does our brain create Because my brother's perception of reality was so different from mine. And so I was teaching and performing research and at the age of 37, and I had a major hemorrhage happening in the left hemisphere of my brain. My brain says, 'Oh my I'm having a stroke!' And then another part of my brain is saying, I'm having a stroke! How many brain scientists had the opportunity to from the inside out like this?' And then when I awoke the left hemisphere was I no longer had me, the individual. I didn't know where I Jill Bolte Taylor died that day. And I was literally laying in this bed, and felt like a ton of And when you're in the and you have this expansive openness, big as the Universe how everything is interrelated and energetically impacted. So I still had those portions but me, the individual, I was gone. And we really had no idea what I would get back or if I would have any ability or recollection of the identity So what the stroke gave me to the depth of these emotions. However, my sadness, my grief, grief is a whole body, whole envelopment, and it takes you to your knees, and it takes you to the floor, and it just flood with and 'Wow, I feel this because I loved, this is But it's not designed to be a lifestyle; it's designed to be information that I can then learn from and hold onto, and find meaning in my world. The emotions, the power of the emotions are so beautiful, so rich, so everything, that without 'em, we would be one plus one equals It took eight years for me to completely recover all function. I knew that I had completely recovered when that organizational and said, &quot;Now I wanna be the boss again.&quot; And the rest of my brain went, because we need your skill sets to be a functional human But no, we are not gonna of the left hemisphere. We are now gonna live as a of our own head.&quot; I have to have that to be a functional human being. But even though my ego center my left hemisphere is not who I am. I am a left hemisphere If we are hooked into the emotional part of our left hemisphere that it's not familiar, I don't and I become constricted. And I can fuel that by with those whom I am familiar with, then we all become more constricted, we all become more rigid. We all become more we versus they. Yet, we have the capacity of a magnificent collective whole in relationship to a magnificent world.&quot; And as we engage with the the world becomes healthier. We have the capacity to understand and have a healthy relationship with all the different And when we look at the anatomy that streamlined activity of our brain, the two and we're having a whole brain I think the first thing we and open to explore what's Get to know who you are. Get to know your four characters. Get to know how they engage in your life, who they have relationships with, how they feel inside of your body. How much time do you want to spend in each of these four different parts? Once you know that, then you And to me, that's personal freedom, to be able to know I have by moment who and how I wanna be, regardless of my external circumstance. And it's a wonderful,