Thanks to World of Tanks for sponsoring today's the Galilean moons, are perhaps some of the However, of the four, there is one that hardly fact it is the third largest moon that we be hard pressed to say any facts about it simply not know much about it? Actually, we is far from boring. I'm Alex McColgan, and we will take a deep dive into this mysterious makes it unique, and why it has been one of Let's start with where it fits into the moon in the entire solar system, and just while its diameter is only 58.4 km (36.2 mi.) mass of the planet, meaning it's less dense, second largest of the Galilean moons and orbits taking 17 Earth days to do so at an average Even at this distance, it is still tidally of Callisto always faces its parent planet. in an orbital resonance with the other three Callisto has a very tenuous atmosphere composed although oxygen has never actually been detected is so thin that the molecules contained within should be stripped away by atmospheric loss that Callisto's crust is replenishing the of carbon dioxide surface ices, evidenced the surface of Callisto is one of the most placing it at over 4 billion years old. You'll Callisto. Its surface is completely covered than any other object we've observed. In crater will probably just overlap another activity, cratering is perhaps the only process appearance over its lifetime. Why is Callisto's bodies in the solar system? Well, on geologically that can erase almost all evidence of past surfaces in the solar system because so much plants, volcanism, tectonic plates, and human wear down and lift up the ground. Even other fewer craters thanks to tidal forces which You see, the first 3 Galilean moons Io, Europa a 4:2:1 orbital resonance. These moons exert means that every time Ganymede orbits Jupiter times. The orbital resonance exerts tidal never allowing any of them to get a perfectly the gravitational force acting on the moons Jupiter. This creates tides that stretch the cores. This doesn't happen with Callisto. processes such as volcanism or plate tectonics all these years. Limited tidal forces and in another very unique way: there are no mountains initially formed at the very beginning of that has since frozen over, and apart from exactly the same ever since. So, let's have of the biggest are truly impressive structures. crater on Callisto, measuring 1,600 kilometres the largest multi-ring impact crater in the km. Its these craters that add to the unique rings than craters anywhere else. With these it may have completely punctured the thin in the light patches you can see in the middle. notice they have a mottled appearance, there the bright knobs and the darker plain. These of Callisto's surface, which would make likely making it two billion years younger fractures in the crust, a concentric failure though, within the rings, these bright knobs they are believed to be the degraded remains past. We don't know exactly why they have due to micrometeor impacts, or simply the brighter than the lower plains because the will have fallen down the knobs over time, impact craters are also fascinating due to shallower on Callisto compared to our Moon, well over 100km wide, however it's only was breaking apart before it impacted, causing surface, or it could be that the surface has impacts that occurred later on. This crater at least, yet you can still clearly see the clear evidence of how unchanging this remarkable there is even a large dome found in the middle. you will see a few concentric rings and a the case on our Moon. However, Callisto has where just the opposite happens. Look at Tindr a pit in the centre. Why does Callisto have fact that Callisto's crust is not just brittle, or a salty ocean underneath. Estimates put The Galileo space probe, which spent several chunk of its time aptly studying the Galilean field could not penetrate through Callisto, under the surface at least 10km thick. This unless the ice layer is at least partially can be maintained below the ice to create Callisto has a small silicate core at its begs the question, can Callisto be conducive under their surfaces? Well, life as we know Callisto might have an ocean of liquid water kilometres (500 million mi.) away from the star. And the absence of tidal forces in doesn't the only source of heat, to warm the sub-surface visiting Callisto wouldn't prove anything. ejecting water directly from their subsurface prospects without ever going into the oceans so scientists would have to penetrate the combined mean that, unfortunately, scientists for life appear to be less favourable on Callisto shouldn't be ignored. If we ever go to explore a perfect base. You see, orbiting at a distance that Callisto is located beyond Jupiter's thousands of times more conducive to human also has a lot of water-ice, that can be used the staple to keep humans alive. Separating for breathing. Callisto's geological stability surface relatively worry free, and the lack faster, easier and more efficient to travel the inner Jovian system from a safe distance, into the outer Solar System. Lifting off from gravity, and you could also get a gravity true that this is a futuristic prospect, although this is a distinct possibility. Now, while during its few flybys, there is still a lot With any luck, we'll get that from the European due to launch in 2022, which will reach the and three of its largest moons, Ganymede, close flybys of Callisto during this mission. questions like: does it have a sub-surface life? Beyond that, there's also the questions what more we will still discover about this everything you could want to know about the Let's head to a different world for today's am a bit of a gamer, and I do have a bit of element. World of Tanks scratches that itch good you are, you can't just go in all guns and capturing certain points in the map can The 40 maps are really detailed and thought the 550 tank models themselves, so that each is a free to play game, so give it a try using starting bonuses. Just note that this is limited If you enjoyed this video about Callisto, moons in our solar system too, so check out to my patrons and members who support the check out the links in the description below.