Why are native speakers so hard to &quot;I was doing a play in the third year of are beeping at you, and you're trying especially in London or any kind of big &quot;But my elder brother sometimes would play liked to pull pranks on me and try to Good morning, good afternoon, and good evening. this video, be sure to subscribe because we make miss any. So with that said, let's get on with understand native speakers. Now, we're going to but trust me, this will help you understand What I'm going to be giving you today is English learners do not make their listening type of English again and again. So I am going and we've got an easy level, medium level, I'm just going to be talking like this with a are very familiar with this accent. It's probably easiest one for you. The medium level, I'm now it's not a perfect Essex accent. I'm not from the standard English. And finally, the Country accent. Again, not a perfect Black being perfect. It's about seeing if you can So let's listen to story number one. This is the you don't understand a lot of it, don't worry. &quot;Have I not told you this story? Right, Okay, year of drama school, and we, um, it was St. Day because this is important. And I had some jeans at the time. And I went to pull on my skinny tight. And my foot got caught in the bottom of you know, the hole for your leg is about that if my foot got caught, I would just pull up I yanked up my skinny jeans, and then my forcefully hit the ground. My foot banged against Felt it straight away. I went, 'Oh!' It was um, yeah, and we had to go and get a new phone walk 10 minutes to the phone shop because I and then we got stuck in traffic because of the broken toe, phone didn't work, St. Patrick's not a fun day. So yeah, you can break your that? Did you understand all of it? 90% of it? The main difference between how I speak in is mainly speed, and I do a lot more linking is always tricky when you're listening two words can sound like one word. So let me draw &quot;It was St. Patrick's Day. I Do you see how I take that 'R' and I put remember 'rit.' That's very confusing if you're expecting to hear a pause in between the words, remember it was St. Patrick's Day.' So what 'R' So in a standard English accent, we only pronounce 'Rs if there is a vowel after when we have a word like 'remember,' there's no say 'remember.' However however, double 'however.' so 'remember it,' if I want to link those the 'R.' 'Remember it.' Because suddenly, the rule. We pronounce the 'R' if there is a The next link I did was 'pull on.' &quot;And I've got the word 'pull' and I've got 'pull on.' I'm going to say 'pull on,' The main idea with linking, most of the time, is you are taking the ending of a word, and of the next word. So instead of saying &quot;I felt it straight away. &quot;I felt it straight away. I went 'oh!&quot; I could say, 'I felt it straight away,' would sound like ChatGPT, okay? So what it.' I felt it straight away. Can you the next word? We are not putting a So the best way you can understand someone how to link words. So if you become an expert on when you hear it, it's a lot less foreign. It's to learn how to make these linking sounds so Another thing I do in this story that might my 'T's. This is super common not just from The 'T' is becoming a consonant that we don't to 'D's. British people just drop 'T's. So you've So what I do because it's my habit is I drop caught,' I say 'my foot got caught in.' My foot So I do pronounce the 'T' at the end of 'caught,' and I want to do some linking, so I want to say But for 'foot' and 'got,' I take away the 'T.' So many people from the UK, many native speakers, going to hear instead is a glottal stop. So if you imagine that someone has just turned the volume your mouth. Just stop the air. 'Ah.' Stop it. The that is a glottal stop. We just stop the someone just goes and closes our throat. 'foot,' I just stop the air coming out of my listen out for those glottal stops. When Let's move on to story number two because I bit more time on that one. So this see how much you can understand. Let's go. &quot;I've met a few celebrities. I don't I just--They just happen. But I remember one or sommit? Somewhere. But the traffic had been and you can't find anywhere to park, and people navigate around all the cars, especially in just awful. There were bikes and everything. And tense. Everything was just so stressful. I felt 'cause I had to go somewhere. I was nearly in on his bike. No, riding his bike down the pavement my childhood, sort of like, this is my favorite the pavement, and I went, 'I know who you are.' you're-- You're Martin from The Parent Trap,' nice, and we just spoke for, like, 10 minutes, and I think, you know, he was sent from the universe How was that? Was that a little bit harder? Well, was doing sort of an Essex, modern Cockney kind of if you don't hear it, it's still really useful to I want your ear to be so trained that no matter you still know what the word is. Because then let's look specifically at what makes this So, quite near the beginning, I say &quot;or Sommit,&quot; sommit, somewhere.&quot; So that's instead of saying You'll notice that native speakers don't really don't say the full word. Everything gets changed. the UK say &quot;or sommit.&quot; So, I was in Soho or a lot was &quot;like.&quot; This is so common all around the like, like, like, like. &quot;Like, you're trying that word, just try to forget about it because it is &quot;I don't like him&quot; or &quot;she likes ice cream.&quot; obviously pay attention. But any other time, it &quot;Oh, she was like really sad,&quot; and I was like, &quot;Confused.&quot; Those &quot;likes&quot; don't really but they don't really have a meaning. I think a key reason why you might find this We've got completely different vowels here. So know why.&quot; &quot;Why.&quot; &quot;I've met a few celebrities. I they get completely changed. If I said something &quot;In any kind of like big city, it's just awful.&quot; a whole other world. That's probably to understand. So listen to it again, slow it all right? Try to just expect the unexpected. I know that's confusing, but you can hear the &quot;K&quot; so there's not a lot like.&quot; You can still hear the &quot;i&quot; of &quot;like&quot; in of practice of listening to slightly different Let's move on to arguably the hardest one to If you don't understand a lot, it's okay. You are of this type of listening practice. If you have this will be hard. It's supposed to be hard, see how much you can understand, and &quot;So, I'm the youngest, and I've got two 10 years older and one that's six years older. physically. Not at all. Never fought. Very pull pranks. He was a bit of a prankster. you know, try to wind me up or whatever. And I and I had a lovely dress for my school disco. It my younger brother had gone to pick me up. And so much older, he looked after us sometimes. So pick me up from the school disco. I came back, like, um, a ladder going up from the floor to the like, our television on the floor outside, the there had been a robbery, someone had broken sobbing. We, like, 'What are we going to do?' know. What do we do? There's a burglar out in the came out of the house and went, um-- And went, here. I was hoping it would just be your brother. and I didn't want you to be here. 'Cause this is my younger brother, but he wasn't expecting a fun prank between two brothers, you got me How was that? Was it okay? Okay, good. Let's you're very unfamiliar with. It's not highly Peaky Blinders, maybe. But even that, it's much matter, okay? I am not here to teach you how to here to do is I'm here to open your eyes to all Okay, it's not always like me, and that's why So let's get into it. Why was that so I was using more phrasal verbs and phrases I say &quot;wind me up.&quot; You know, to if you don't know what that means when you hear &quot;What? Uh-huh. What? What? What?&quot; So like in a fun way. Maybe poking them, just &quot;And like, you know, trying to wind me up you don't know what I'm saying. Then I pranks on me.&quot; When we pull a prank, we do pull water down their back or put something they go, &quot;Ah!&quot; You're pulling a prank. Now, with prank when you hear &quot;pull,&quot; you're going pulling? What's going on here? Pulling something? is you need your vocabulary to be as big as it the more phrasal verbs you can learn, the English books. Obviously, you will learn a but make sure you're listening to real people where people just say the words they want to say, hear again in your life, but you might. So it's read books where the author likes to reflect real type in something like, um, books using colloquial vocabulary will really help with your listening their speed and the linking. You don't also want have complete control over learning vocabulary. then you just have to worry about following Speaking of vowel shifts, obviously, the vowels like &quot;window, window.&quot; &quot;There was, like, um, a So instead of &quot;window,&quot; which is what I would say &quot;window.&quot; I did a tapped 'R' in that story. So very calm.&quot; In places like Scotland, Liverpool, So if you're expecting to hear &quot;very,&quot; it might way to use these stories to help you the most? So find challenging. Maybe it's all of them. That's five times. Five times. If you want, you can listen to it more slowly. You can even read the subtitles on this video. So you can even look at do not understand, listen to it five times. Write video where you're really struggling, and then read what I'm actually saying, and then listen detective. You've got a magnifying glass. What it that is not making sense to you? Is it the in that last one. I was going to mumbling you need to find some people to listen to who listen to mumbly people because clearly that Stop listening to the same types of English. It comprehension because you're only listening to you. Please don't get overwhelmed. If you listen a thing,&quot; it's okay. You've got plenty of time. enjoyed this video, please give it a like. If can do so there. And if you would like an online the link for that is down below. Thank you so much