(dramatic music) - [Colin] The vast expanse is punctured at its heart by a lush, tropical oasis. Its river arteries swell with the rains attracting wildlife in abundance. (water splashing) Yet by the end of the dry season, 95% of the water has vanished. (dramatic music) This place of flood and drought is called the Okavango Delta. (dramatic music) What causes this extreme (dramatic music) (stick whooshing) (singing in foreign language) (dramatic music) (dramatic music) Kalahari means big thirst. It's the second biggest covering over 93,000 square kilometers. It blankets most of Botswana. It's also home to the largest and to a conundrum. (dramatic music) It's a place where a of water a day, drained through a labyrinth of that form the Okavango Delta. (dramatic music) This island of green covers an over 15,000 square kilometers. It's the largest inland but it's also an anomaly. The waters from the mighty Okavango River never reach the sea, instead, they're sucked into the sands of the Kalahari Desert or (dramatic music) How is it possible for to exist right in the heart in the world? (dramatic music) The Okavango Delta is a and drought. (dramatic music) During January and February, rain falling on the Angolan drains into the Okavango River. (dramatic music) In one month, a massive surge of water races 1,200 kilometers down river. (dramatic music) Over the following four Water now dominates the land, there is no getting away from it. Lions usually avoid getting wet, but here in the delta, they to patrol their territory and search for prey. (dramatic music) So the lions of the Okavango have learned to overcome and teach their young to (dramatic music) (singing in foreign language) The delta is also home They're specialized for life in the swamps and graze in the rich water meadows. (dramatic music) They prefer grasses that and so they advance and with the ebb and flow of They can't outrun killers on dry ground, so they stay as a protection from predators, but sometimes even the swamps aren't safe. The pride wades through they're focused on making a kill. (dramatic music) And when there's lions on the hunt, freeloaders are never far behind. (dramatic music) A hyena has spotted the pride long grass. (dramatic music) Hoping for an easy meal, (dramatic music) The lionesses focus on a group of lechwe. (dramatic music) (dramatic music) (birds chirping) But in the water, the swamp and agile to catch. This time, the lions leave empty handed. Hunting in the watery swamps (dramatic music) When the flood waters approach they're funneled through a natural gateway called the panhandle. (dramatic music) Here, water dominates (dramatic music) The panhandle's permanent water channels are home to some well known inhabitants. King of the waterways is a (dramatic music) (dramatic music) (dramatic music) (dramatic music) (dramatic music) Hippos are totally deep enough for them Their sensitive skin loses than other mammals, so during the heat of the and overheating. (dramatic music) (dramatic music) But hippos manage to through a network of swampy labyrinths. (river waves crushing) By propelling their huge and grasses, they create hippo highways. (dramatic music) As they bulldoze new waterways, they allow the panhandles water and fish to spread from one area to the next. (dramatic music) And these thousands of Attracted by an easy live in this small area of Botswana than in the surrounding Kalahari Desert. (dramatic music) The annual floods bring a All these women have to (dramatic music) Or net them in their thousands. (dramatic music) The men fish in the panhandles (dramatic music) They navigate its channels (dramatic music) The local people have learned to adapt their whole way of life and water ways. (dramatic music) (singing in foreign language) Local Hambukushu women harvest the reeds that lie in the banks. (singing in foreign language) They're dried and then to construct and repair houses. (singing in foreign language) Homes are built on higher ground to keep clear of the flood waters. Flash floods could devastate in an instant, but with a healthy respect for the river's fluctuating ferocity, local people have learned to thrive here. The Okavango's waters provide everything these people need to survive. (dramatic music) And provides rich surroundings (dramatic music) (dramatic music) From May onwards, the flood waters continue (dramatic music) As the floods move through it travels slowly at It takes four months to travel through the whole delta. The water struggles to penetrate so the flood water doesn't actually reach the until August. (dramatic music) (leaves rustling) (dramatic music) But things used to be very different. Thousands of years ago, the delta's waters extended much further than today. (dramatic music) They even reached as far as 90 kilometers southeast of today's delta. (dramatic music) They are one of the largest covering over 15,000 square kilometers. (wind whooshing) (dramatic music) And during the dry season, (dramatic music) But in extremely wet years, the delta's waters still as the Boteti River which reaches out to the edge of the pans. (dramatic music) (dramatic music) But it's been almost two decades since the delta's precious the Makgadikgadi area. It seems fated to remain dry forever. (dramatic music) (elephant grunts) (dramatic music) This year, the rains have in the north. There's a change in the air. (dramatic music) Animals are drawn towards the (dramatic music) And all of a sudden, a trickle of water wets the dusty ground. (water gurgling) The dry channel of the Boteti River is flooding at long last. (dramatic music) Only about 2% of the have made it to the far end of the delta to fill this river bed once again. (dramatic music) (dramatic music) Elephants have picked up several kilometers away and after surviving the long dry season, they feel like celebrating. (dramatic music) (dramatic music) Fishermen who used to were forced to move or face starvation. Now, they've returned. (dramatic music) The arriving flood of the parched lands to the delta's south. (dramatic music) (elephant grunting) (dramatic music) Life finally returns to the areas around the Makgadikgadi Pans, but this reprieve will be short-lived. Soon, this precious wet will or evaporate in the face (dramatic music) (dramatic music) (dramatic music) (birds chirping) But for now, the flood continues and in the heart of the delta, Although the desert is never far away, this verdant wetland offers right in the heart of the Kalahari. (birds chirping) This clawless otter hunts (dramatic music) (dramatic music) Crabs, frogs, fish, even are on the menu. Its body is long and streamlined, propelled by strong hind feet. It's flattened tail is used as a radar, making this otter a swift It's clawless, tactile hands are ideal for probing and grasping. (dramatic music) And its strong teeth can (dramatic music) Even though the waters are and searching hands can easily find crabs. (dramatic music) Fish though, are more difficult to catch. The otter must hunt them (dramatic music) This catfish's swift escape (dramatic music) But once caught, rough means that the slippery (birds chirping) Having eaten his fill, the to dry his sodden coat. (birds chirping) Everything about life in the (birds chirping) Sheets of water cover at the height of the flood season. (dramatic music) This vast shallow lake is of small islands. (dramatic music) They are all shapes and sizes and rise just high enough and flood plains to support (dramatic music) And this is where many from the unrelenting waters. (dramatic music) About 70% of these islands (dramatic music) Trees and other plants colonized the soil and gradually the mounds and more deposits from the murky waters. (dramatic music) This old termite mound may well have been the Now abandoned by its original inhabitants, it is a welcomed shelter for (singing in foreign language) These gregarious animals of up to 70 members and makes an ideal den for the whole tribe. (dramatic music) Mongooses search for food in small groups, digging in leaf litter or for tasty morsels. (birds chirping) Some of the band stumble (dramatic music) Mongooses are very inquisitive and this tortoise is It doesn't seem to be edible or willing to react to the so eventually they abandon their find. After suffering the as a marking post, the tortoise tentatively and continues on its way. (dramatic music) The band comes across a They decide to stay and Mongooses often seek the or even troops of baboons. More eyes on the lookout make them more relaxed feeding, but they can never relax hungry killers lurk everywhere. (dramatic music) An unwary moment, a quick pounce and this mongoose has lost of a leopard, but despite this bad luck, the life of the delta mongooses is easy compared to those (dramatic music) Just a few kilometers away, takes over. Water quickly becomes a rare luxury. (dramatic music) Despite the delta's seasonal ebb and flow, it's nearly always hot and dry here. (wildebeest bellows) (dramatic music) Life is a constant struggle for survival against the dry heat. (dramatic music) Summer temperatures can reach a blistering 45 degrees celsius. (dramatic music) Delta animals like the simply cannot endure and so savanna animals take their place. (dramatic music) But people have also found ways to survive outside the delta. These are the Bushmen. (dramatic music) The secret to their success is the passing on of key knowledge from generation to generation. (wood clunking) This is done using elaborate and so lifesaving wisdom and experience is passed on to the next generation. Children learn by observing their elders and the lessons start This village elder knows exactly how to handle The child pays attention, his life could well depend Poisonous insects and deadly animals are part of the Bushman's (dramatic music) (dramatic music) Finding food is the other crucial lesson. (dramatic music) Boys are taught to hunt by the men. (boys howling) Much of the skill is passed on through dramatic reenactments (boys howling) (dramatic music) (stick whooshing) These children are as deadly weapons. Once they've mastered the they will graduate onto but there's no substitute Hunting is vital to They track on foot. (dramatic music) Patience and stamina is Bows and arrows are the weapons of choice. These weapons require The Bushmen have to get within to achieve a deadly hit, but their chances of a kill are increased by a secret weapon. (dramatic music) Poison. (dramatic music) They've been expert toxicologists and make a whole range of (dramatic music) Once hit, it may take hours or even days for the poison to take effect, but death is inevitable. (dramatic music) (arrow whooshing) (dramatic music) The Kalahari has been the Bushman's home for tens of thousands of they have refined their to get the most from (dramatic music) They've learned to rely to bring just enough (dramatic music) It takes knowledge, perseverance They know exactly where often in the most unlikely places. (dramatic music) The juicy fibers of the bi root are an excellent source of water and it can be used over several years. By replanting after use, ready for next time. (dramatic music) But animals also know about so to avoid confrontation, the Bushman protect a with prickly Acacia branches Wild summer melons are also a vital part of the Bushman diet. The seeds are roasted and the flesh is boiled but when all other water the ever resourceful (speaking in foreign language) During the brief rainy and store it underground of ostrich eggs. (dramatic music) (speaking in foreign language) The holes are sealed using a leaf from the Kalahari Tibouch bush. This plant is known for its antifungal and antioxygen properties and it's possible that these properties keep the stored water fresh (dramatic music) The Bushmen are completely and know all its secrets (dramatic music) (wood clunking) (dramatic music) (rope thumping) They spend their days from the land. (dramatic music) (wood gnashing) (speaking in foreign language) Roots, beans and truffles and shared by everyone. (dramatic music) (dramatic music) (dramatic music) But at night, there's time to socialize, exchange hunting stories and (singing in foreign language) The men string dried insect cocoons filled with seeds together (singing in foreign language) These are used to provide a dance beat and at the earliest used in human culture. (singing in foreign language) It's their rich history and that has enabled the Bushmen's despite the challenges posed by the forbidden Kalahari Desert. (singing in foreign language) (birds chirping) In late August, the delta's but the Kalahari dry (dramatic music) Water becomes scarce. (dramatic music) Like the Bushman, the animals to cope with this dusty (dramatic music) The life giving rains won't arrive until at least mid-October. (dramatic music) As the land gets the drought claims its first victims. (dramatic music) (wildebeest bellows) The young, weak and but their deaths provide for the regions' scavengers. This elephant's carcass has already attracted a (dramatic music) These scavengers play a pivotal role in the perpetual cycle of life and death. (dramatic music) They clear up carcasses nothing goes to waste. (dramatic music) But by August, the parched land can no longer support grazers, so the herds of buffalo and antelope head towards better grazing within the delta's lash boundaries. (birds chirping) But predators are extremely territorial and are forced to remain The lion prides in these marginal areas are struggling to find enough food. (birds chirping) And this is one of the last in the area. (birds chirping) So the hunters constantly stalk them. (dramatic music) Working together, they as possible. (dramatic music) (dramatic music) They aren't designed over long distances, so they of their target. (dramatic music) Buffalo, a formidable foes. (dramatic music) Weighing in at up to 900 kilos. (dramatic music) They're equipped with a huge set of horns and could make short work (dramatic music) One of the lionesses spots a The young calf is caught unawares. (calf bleating) (dramatic music) But the buffalo aren't about to give up on a fellow herd member. (dramatic music) Sensing a second chance, (dramatic music) This time, they stand their (dramatic music) But whilst prey is fast it's still in plentiful supply By September, the dry on the Kalahari. Just a few miles away, the still hold water and as more the local hunters are spoiled for choice with available prey. One of these predators is the serval cat. These close relatives of lions Exceptional hearing helps Eyes closed, they listen for of their prey. (birds chirping) They also have proportionally, in the cat world, this means they can sneak and reach impressive speeds of and its super long neck allows it to see over high vegetation, but most incredible of all, servals can perform astounding up to five meters high landing precisely on to stun or even kill their prey on impact. With a success rate of over 50%, servals are one of the amongst all cats and on their menu. (dramatic music) (dramatic music) Their spectacular leaps are straight out of the air, but a catch doesn't guarantee a meal. (dramatic music) A second serval has witnessed (dramatic music) And is intent on snatching a free meal. (dramatic music) But this free loader has bitten (birds chirping) Eventually, he's forced to admit defeat. (birds chirping) Finally, the winner can get of plucking and eating his prayer. (birds chirping) (dramatic music) By October, it's the late dry season. Every creature in the has either died, left (dramatic music) (hooves thumping) The long wait for the rains continues. (dramatic music) It's been eight long months and even then, it only (dramatic music) (elephant grunts) (dramatic music) (dramatic music) Even the delta's water The lush green turns to Most of the rich waters of the Okavango have now disappeared into the ground. (dramatic music) Hippos have nowhere left to hide. (dramatic music) Desperate times call hyenas even attempt unlikely kills. (dramatic music) The shrinking pools become (dramatic music) The last of the waters will soon evaporate into the atmosphere in the (thunder rumbling) But at long last, the as storms begin to build. (thunder rumbling) (rain pattering) A savior has arrived just (dramatic music) And once more the Okavango's and dry can begin again. (dramatic music) Sustaining life in the delta's wetlands and supporting the surrounding Kalahari for yet another year. (dramatic music) (dramatic music) The waxing and waning of the it's alternating floods and droughts are all part of a natural equilibrium. The delta is a living heart Its labyrinths and channels function like an organism's bringing life to all (dramatic music) The perpetual rotation of wet and dry, beats out a natural (dramatic music) (dramatic music)