Some images sum up a city. The poor quays of Calcutta, Her malnourished children, And its dilapidated buildings. But for 20 years, the landscape of By the arrival of shopping centers With its cohort of Western brands. * It's a beautiful day Which Calcutta has long dreamed of. The Acropolis shopping center. Move over, make room. The mayor of the city and a minister, Have made the move. With one of the actors Welcome to the paradise of Upstairs, next to the traditional kitchen, 3 Western fast-food brands Subway, Kfc soon and Domino's Pizza. The brand's 600e point of sale in India. How much is it ? 59 rupees sir. 59 rupees, right? 59 rupees, 80 euro cents, It is a Western product at a very low price. The main selling point of the brand. And there are even cheaper. This pizza is first prize at Domino's. And it is only sold at 49 rupees. * That's why she's so popular. A pizza at this price, It's like a dream come true. For me and for the customers. Make people dream with junk food, It is still possible in the countries In France and in Europe, the tale Prevention campaigns To warn against junk food. By eating less sugary and fatty products, You protect your health. In 2004, a law was passed to limit And the advertisements for these products This is to apply the law against obesity. Under pressure, manufacturers have reduced, The amounts of sugar, salt and But they don't run out of ideas On the Internet where advertising is less controlled, They target new consumers. In the countries of the South, brands By walking in the playgrounds. And charge their products with * New Territories Survey We go from starvation to obesity, It's going to be a health disaster. If you think of Rio de Janeiro, Some cliches come to you Copacabana Beach, Sculpted bodies, the sweetness of life These common places are very exploited Especially those of Soda. Football, favelas and sugary drinks. But the reality of Brazil, here it is, One in two overweight adults And according to this lawyer of a Brands of sodas are not there for nothing. Abusive marketing is one of the main Children become addicted And afterwards, to wean them, They drink a lot of soda And sometimes even with a bottle. Parents give this kind Because they say to themselves, If it's so prominent Why would that be harmful? * Brazil is the third * The truth is, I love sodas. I'm addicted. Almost everyone drinks it. And when I go out too. It is my grandson who loves it very much. Big bottles are for me And the little ones for him. He takes them straight from the fridge. It's exactly the size of his little hand. * In Brazil, there is no law governing So brands don't hesitate to Belo Horizonte, the sixth largest city in the country. In the popular districts of the Hills, This public college is not the most miserable, But he has no budget * Everything could soon change * Come on, put on your costume! * These 14-year-old children will participate Between the colleges of the city, This is the last rehearsal. The winning school wins 15,000 reals, 5000. Yes 5000 reals. So what ? That would be great, we could Soccer balls, volleyball equipment. * Whatever the outcome, This teacher enrolled the children, She even has the official title Unthinkable in France. College students join In the biggest room And the party obviously starts with, A Coke. * Of course we choose to drink Coke. Logically, they are the best! You gave out a lot 20 bottles maximum. And Coke? Enormously ! All refrigerators! How much is that then? About 2000 cans? Yes that's it. That day, the brand is everywhere. And yet, it is a school event. Are you spending a lot of money on this operation? * Yes, we have invested a lot, Because the goal is to make people dream. And that is the best gift Finally I mean not children, But teenagers from 12 to 19 years old. And who are our audience. * Don't be stressed. Breathe. * It's time for students To go on stage. Thanks to the red mark, They have the right to their moment of glory. * Are you aware Yes, well, more or less. * Because I find that Coke The brand is already so well known! Everyone here knows her. * The School Festival, A great notoriety operation. Coke forever! Today, tomorrow, Coca-Cola, always! The most popular brand of soda ensured the loyalty of its In this still young country, Industrialists don't wait for college McDonald's sends its clown Ronald in A legal marketing practice in Brazil, Last year, an association for the protection So, at McDonald's, we prefer not to talk about it anymore. You can't just answer 2 or 3 No, I can't, really. No info, really? Unfortunately, no, sorry. A school principal goes to us Here's lunch kids. That's for Johanna. That's for Gabriel. * In Sao Paulo, Anna-Marina Fazoli, Tries to prevent junk food A daily fight to protect * In Brazilian canteens in general, We serve crisps, often fried snacks, It's really difficult because, It's not just The little ones too. We really have to make an effort * At our request, the director By telephone, to bring the clown Ronald. And a few days later... Hey, hi guys, how are you? Hello welcome ! What an honor! We pass ourselves off Good morning ! Good morning ! Let's go, everyone there? I want everyone to clap their hands, Because I'm going to make my entrance! Let's go ! Music ! * Can we live without nature? The truth is that mother nature must be Always more tenderly, as if The sketches talk about the environment and sport. No brand reference. On the costume of the actor, The yellow logo was even Objective, not to be accused One, two, three, let's go! * We applaud loudly! But the children are doing well Goodbye ! Does it make you want Are you going to ask your parents? Yes ! What do you want ? I want nuggets, fries, a toy A maxi soda! And you, leaving here, what Fries and ice cream. * This type of show Has already taken place in hundreds of schools. Does the brand assume this We asked McDonald's Brazil, And received this response by email. Is he there, who is he? A clown ! What Clown? McDonald's Clown! He has already come to the nursery where I was before. No law, no regulation, Nevertheless, this practice in Brazil. However, last year The complaint of an association has Ravier Bardo sent a letter In charge of education * Based on the precautionary principle, It was recommended to no longer allow * The most effective marketing Subtle and repetitive advertising Especially in children. * A child does not dissociate the message * Here is what we filmed this morning. If we recover the water that has Well we can reuse it Wash on the floor, right? I feel totally helpless. I sent recommendations, The Secretary of State for Health Despite sending 2 letters to the Ministry. In Brazil, the kings of food In other developing countries, They offer good products India, 1270000000 inhabitants, A priority market for Western brands, Looking for opportunities. Here street food is So to compete with him, Industrialists from Europe or America, Play on the lack of information In this huge mall in Calcutta, Among the restaurants, it is a Who makes the biggest turnover. The American brand has revisited its And it works. The restaurant attracts 3,000 customers A record in India. What do you want then ? I want it there! Which ? There is a burger, I want to eat it all! In Europe or the United States, the menus Not here. Only sodas or juices. But consumers aren't complaining. I never got sick. For me, it's clean, So I trust them. It's very good! It is very good for health! Yes, it is very good for health Managers are aware of But they have no right to express themselves. We record the conversation discreetly. People don't ask you questions About the sugar content, No, very little, very little. You know, in India, people don't Whether in the United States or Europe. It's starting, but it's really very weak. Paradox, while some of the Another part of the population Suffering from an obesity epidemic. 30% of teenagers are overweight. A figure multiplied by 2 in 5 years. Suraj, 15, weighs 99 kilos, * I would like a spicy chicken pizza. The teenager is a fan of fast food. Over a week, I have to go 4 times Eat pizza or burgers. We want to enjoy life. Do you think you are addicted? Not at all ! Addiction is something else. I don't smoke, I don't drink. I am not addicted. * But you know that's not good, right? Yes, but what to do? That's to say ? What can I answer? But you don't want to stop eating? If now I will have to I will stop eating. Suraj has an appointment at this clinic, Specializing in Discounts heavy interventions 300 patients a month are operated on here. More and more teenagers. * Hello Suraj, how are you? How are you. Ready for the operation? Yes I am. Last interview before surgery. * So you have 54 kilos to lose? Yes that's it. In 4 weeks, you can put back * Because of his overweight, he is Hormonal dysfunction leads to In addition, he suffers from a trauma I tried everything but I can't So the doctor will help me. television, advertising, Have a very important role. They use stars By offering them products Besides, he plays with the idea Lets be modern, * Suraj's operation will take place the next day. Are you my boyfriend? I really want a Mac Potato Tikki... Okay ! Thank God the Mac Potato Tikki, Costs only 25 rupees. The TV spots, multiply the With a promise, International quality. * Take very high quality ingredients, Mix them with 100% real chicken, And add our secret spices and herbs, This is how you get a good dish. What is it really ? Are the products sold in India To find out, we compared them. We chose McDo and KFC, Two very popular brands in India. Here's what we discovered. At McDo, the Indian Mac Chicken, Is two and a half times more 5 grams against 2 grams of sugar. The net o fish contains, 2 times more saturated fat. 3 times more for Mac Nuggets. As for Indian fries, Almost 6 times more saturated fat. At KFC, the results are no better. Indian fries contain Hot Wings, 3 times more fat. In France such rates would be Because of nutritional commitments We wanted to show these results, To a pioneer in the fight He directs the Center for A highly respected NGO in India. Shandra Buchan wrote a report It was already pinning the content Aimed at Indian consumers. * The goal is very simple, If there is more fat, salt It will taste better. People will eat more That's the challenge. Junk food tastes good, but We present our comparison to him. * These results are very shocking. Multinationals watch It's no problem for them. To sell greasy products, While they cannot do it in France. * So this result is very shocking. We brought him the sandwich The Spicy Paneer Wrap, A vegetarian cheese sandwich. Its nutritional composition is This thing has 51 grams of fat, 25 grams of saturated fat, If you eat this sandwich, So you don't have to eat Not even a piece of bread. * If you show this picture She'll think it's good for * I have rarely seen an absence so It gives an image of healthy food It's not just for That some brands sell a This is what a The fast food chain This former chef I designed this sandwich. hello, can i have one He chose to show us Misleading brand marketing. You use butter on No, oil. It's only worth 28 euro cents. * It's simply stuffed bread. And look at the sauce, there is so much oil! It's not actually mozzarella. Inside they say it's cheese, When in fact it's a kind It makes you feel like real cheese, But that's just gravy. And why don't they use cheese? Because it would be too expensive. After working 6 months for the brand, The chef chose * For them, everything is good for making money. As long as the money is coming, there is I caused them a lot of problems, 'Cause I think of food as Not a chemical construct. All my ideas were rejected But I can't conceive It's not possible to give that to people. It's not good. You pay for it one day or another. In India, Domino's does not publish any It would be illegal in France. So these products, we have them Starting with pizza It contains 52 grams of fat, The equivalent of 5 tablespoons of oil. And indeed, not a gram of cheese. As for the stuffed bread at 30 euro cents, It contains 11.6% saturated fat, A nutritional bomb. We requested Radio silence. No response to our interview requests. So we went to The general meeting of the Association In a trendy bar in New Delhi. All the bosses of the big brands are there, Gathered around a drink. Among them, the general manager * Hello sir, can I I don't want any interviews, sorry. But why does Domino's not publish any I have no answer for you. But yet the brand does Don't want to answer? No. This means that Domino's Come on, get out of here! The HRD comes to the rescue. What do you want ? My question is very simple, Obesity is a big Yeah, well, that's not the only problem. So isn't it irresponsible to I am not authorized to answer, But send us an email and you will have Obesity, One problem among others for Domino's. We will never receive Only the US headquarters returned an email, By redirecting us to In the countries of the South, Food kings profit Elsewhere, where rules exist, Some manage to circumvent them. 5 p.m. in France. The time when families start their snack. * For Nathan and his sisters, It always ends the same way. Children from 7 to 12 years old pass And teenagers aged 13 to 19 pass * So, for 10 years, manufacturers And knew how to make themselves popular. Of the top 20 brands Half are food brands. Above all, they developed Who showcase their brands. We call it Advergames. Oreo, Fanta, Haribo, Products are at the center of these games. And there, unlike the TV spot, There is also no obligation to indicate Only the Nestle group specifies it But it's written very small. This is a Nestle ad. This is an advertisement ! Why do you think they They put the games because It's funny for people. And you think that's advertising, the game? No, it's more of a game. Mom comes to see what's going on. What are you doing ? We make a game where it is necessary Do you just have to tap on it? Yes ! Is it quite boring as a game? The side maybe a little treacherous, Is that it does not appear as an advertisement, Where we don't tell you, eat And have x,y cereal for breakfast. So I think it's a little disguised. Now it's up to them to sort things out. No, that's really a first, I didn't know it actually existed. What are the consequences What is the difference with a television commercial? A researcher has just written a Aimed at children. And she leaned into those advergames. We eat with our eyes. We eat with our eyes That is to say, when we Well that makes you want to eat it. And the interest after digital marketing, It is that it is often The child is not passive He is really a player in the game on the Internet, Or he is an actor in the relationship And moreover, and there, We have figures that are a little worrying, Which show that children, Do not recognize, first, The fact that it is a brand And they don't recognize no We show him some games * It is important to monitor Since, of course, the child will be To improve its performance, And because it's a universe And all the time he plays, He is required to join Games to watch. Especially since the effects on the Especially for overweight people. In this hospital in the Paris region, An obesity specialist should With digital marketing. Hello Adrian, here we go! Hello. -Things are going well ? Hello. We can take off the shorts Its good. 1m73 for 95 kilos. Adrien 15 years old, has been followed for a year, To fight against his overweight. But he is constantly in demand. Last night, what did you eat? Do you have games on your phone? Yes, I play a little on my phone. Did you notice, That there was from time to time Yeah, did you notice that? Yes food or soda. Yes, for example? It was McDonalds. Yes, so McDo they are there? Yes, but sometimes it pops up all of a sudden. OK. But you can't actually remove it. Already 7 kilos lost. Cheer ! Adrien is on the road to recovery. Hello Chloe. Hello. Others have more trouble Chloe, 11, is slightly overweight. As the interview begins, The little brother is having fun on No burgers or any But the Happy Meal mascot is present, Which challenges the doctor. So did you finish the games? No, I'm doing them all. As soon as he wants to load an application, So indeed, I gave the Ok, But here it is, McDo, it's harmless quotes, So suddenly, I did not Is it harmless Mcdo? Yes, finally the application for Yes, for me it is harmless, Finally, it does not represent a danger for them. That, for you, is No, for me, it's not advertising, Because they know McDonald's enough, To want to go and ask to go Do you think about it more or not? Yes, it makes you want to go to McDo. That's probably insidious Who finally is one, Because the goal is still This little reminder to have Here, it can possibly make you think, Here, it's been a long time since we've been, If we go there tonight. Consumer targeting The marks had however Happy holidays, see you soon. In 2008, the 20 largest Had signed the same promise, That of limiting advertising to The commitment also applies to advergames. But no penalty is foreseen. Yet we find that most games, Are offered on iTunes, Or on the Google Store for Free and without any mention These brands, we contacted them. Only a few of us Here is their response. The Nestle group, With regard to these advergames which The games we have developed The Kellogg's Group, With regard to our Tresor brand, Our consumers are teenagers We therefore do not address children. The Mondelez group, Our three apps target young adults, Over 13, 15 or 19 years old And Coca-Cola, The communication is intended However, your request concerns us. No industrialist has agreed to Neither do their communication agencies. So, to understand their marketing strategy, We lent ourselves to a little role play. We got passed We create a dummy brand, With the help of a specialized graphic designer. A very sweet fruit juice called Swag, It means too cool in English. Cutting and collage workshop. Everything is ready. We contact several They made games very &quot;The fall&quot; for the Oasis brand, &quot;The Adventures of Belin&quot; which highlight And KFC's tastycomics children's site, 2 million regular visits. This game consists of collecting To spice up the exercise, we add The bottle displays a rate We are filming with a hidden camera. first agency, We present them our fruit juice. We want to compete with the Oasis Fanta brands. OK. The idea is to be in a slightly fun universe that - Ok, children, it's children-children? OK. It's very clear. The advertiser introduces us to the His client, one of the top five It's a very very simple game since it's the Where we play with the heroes who are on the packaging The agency's client is committed, Not to advertise However, the game is aimed The principle of the campaign, And after the production, constantly outsources it. Here what I tell you here and the strategy of which I We have no right to say that we are targeting children. In fact we have no right to target It's time to taste. Not a note on the sugar level. To know more, Second appointment with an agency, Who presents himself as the leader This entrepreneur has just realized, An application for a chocolatier, Downloaded millions of times. They increased their turnover by 30% on Do we know what age group? No, but it's the children's 4h so... It's hyper chocolate muffins, So it's complementary with your target. The communicator will give us Based on psychology. Generally we manage to place the mark at the They are going to be exposed to the mark 5, 10 times. It is thanks to the brand that we progress, that we And that solicits pleasure hormones And it's associated with the brand, We offered an interview on To these agencies and their clients, No result. So these images, we wanted The obesity specialist. It's thanks to the brand that we win, And it creates pleasure hormones, It creates happiness. It is dreadful. It's terribly relevant. We also know very well that the games So, there is this alliance of 2 addictions, Who are the game and the sugar. And I think it's infuriating Because we fight everyday every day, In front of each of the children, Who, as soon as he goes home and Will disappear, probably. I hope that we will be able to legislate against that, And I will lend my support Legislate, precisely, In France, food advertising Through an authority of It is led by industry Stephane Martin is Hello, Philippe Levasseur. Stephane Martin. He just wrote a report, Who concludes that 99.8% of Comply with ethical obligations. Including on the Internet. But advergames are not We show him the game Clearly, we score points by consuming. Yes, but because it is It is a universal principle, It's either money or And then of course, when you It's your product. That is, if we create Placarded in the street, we have If I do it as part of a I escape this obligation? Where that speaks to all those I escape this obligation? Because it's not planned. Nothing was planned. Even as obesity continues Especially in the most modest families. Nothing just happens, Because the public authorities also know, The economic impacts for And now there is, In any case, there may not be the But it is true that currently In public debate, It's not a question who is And nothing should change soon. No bill is under consideration for Yet growing. Back to India, The country where everything is possible And composition of the products. We find there Suraj the teenager, 1 hour before his stomach reduction operation. Hello. So ready for surgery? Yes. It's good, aren't you afraid then? Of course, I'm impatient, I will finally be able to lose weight. But I have to start again What do you mean ? That I'm done with * General anaesthesia, The surgeon begins the operation. * That's his liver, It turned yellow. And it widened because of the fat. * The doctor will completely remove Before replacing it in the abdomen, It went very well, he's fine. Nothing to worry about. 4 months later, we will learn that Suraj, Lost over 30 pounds. It took the teenager, a surgical operation for A few months ago, the 20 largest made an announcement, The establishment of nutritional criteria But again, it's about self-regulation. No sanction provided for in case of non-compliance, Application date 2018. By then, in 2 years, obesity will have killed, 5.6 million people worldwide.