If you're ready to use your life, ChatGPT is I'm going to show you going to show you a can use to get precise, Trust me, I'm not messing Go to chat.openai.com and either With the free version of ChatGPT, you have you have access to ChatGPT 4.0. For now, 5 is plenty powerful text box at the bottom prompting ChatGPT. whenever you ask so we can start just by asking, &quot; When prompting ChatGPT, it's important So let's try that first one again. Which Or maybe you're How about which design tasks So if you're unsure of go ahead and give it like what industry you the AI can best help you But that's just the start. that we should consider precise answers and So when possible, provide Tell ChatGPT A story, math help, product suggestions, Number two, context. Tell this task performed. help the AI give a Number three, an example. you're essentially template to use when it Number four, a persona. Want ChatGPT or maybe a college professor? Number five, a format. Specify if you want an outline, or any other It could be fun, serious, realistic, and if With this in mind, we programming help, business development, personal coaching. As you begin prompting always get the answers just let the AI know in about their answer The AI will reprocess the give you a better answer. as reiterating, and creating effective prompts with actionable AI create prompts for you later on, and so keep it in mind. It's default, when you start a ChatGPT doesn't know We're going to change but for now, every new chat This is both a There will be times where you a few things about you you like certain tasks times you'll end up and it will be a blessing the AI's memory of that To handle this dilemma, you'll that is, a place where reuse again in the apps for this like but you can just use a productivity tool like several prompts and then for them, so maybe personal prompts, work I'm sure you see how valuable prompting is a large market of prompts and AI workflows, my special trick comes in, Once you've had a long successful chat with times and worked ask it to create a learned about you that you can reuse on Reiterate the prompt that it gives you a then go ahead and your prompt library where Now you're set up to use this I'll link a starter prompt in below that you can use started with having AI Remember to be creative If you've just started using AI, having AI create these great way to learn how yourself because you can see what the AI is the future when you're creating your own don't be afraid to ditch chats You can overprompt really odd results. In delete that chat and start or from a well-developed With all this talk and storing them for nice if chatgpt could just Like always? Well, it can. Click on your account menu custom instructions. From that allow you to set for chatgpt to use In the first box, you can bit more about you, to your use of AI so it when responding to your like &quot;I'm a biochemistry study tips and techniques.&quot; can change the way in which So it's writing length of its responses, use concise and simple wording? Let me know even when I don't ask. and speak like a Notice that there's a toggle disable these custom you want to start a new I hope this helps you instructions and some fine-tuned prompts, and the specific tasks that By default, your be saved so you can easily You can even rename the chats to easily really important. While chats are private to you, reviewed by human reviewers at This helps improve the AI and it's like for example Generally, your information reviewed by humans, enter any personal numbers, account Alternatively, you can and disable saving chats a human reviewer will be able to access So at this point, I hope you feel Let me know in the if you've ever had to or video meeting and for AI to transcribe and you, you should check and I'll show you If you enjoyed the video smashing that like button Subscribe for more, have fun with I'm Anson Alexander and I