There's a lot of misconceptions and unfortunately, these false beliefs perpetuate the stigma around the disorder. I'm going to debunk I'm Dr. Tracey Marks, a psychiatrist and I make These myths are in no specific order. The first one is believing at some level, we all have it. This idea is a variant on which stands for attention isn't a real illness. Instead, it's a focus problem that falls on a spectrum Well, true. We can all struggle at if we have a lot going on, or need to sustain attention The ADHD is so much more In fact, there are a lot of reasons that you can have trouble Some of these reasons are being run down for any reason, sick, working long hours or being burned out. Also, anxiety interferes Illnesses like COVID that makes it hard to focus So all of those are things that can interfere with your focus. I said ADHD is more than a focus problem. People with ADHD also have Time management is huge. Organization, multitasking, and in some people there's I talk about that in my video on symptoms that you can These symptoms taken together cause a lot of problems for people such that the person with ADHD can flounder and underperform such that they never reach Everyone isn't experiencing So yes, there are lots of and make it hard to get things done, but no, everyone doesn't have that most often leads to a for the people affected by it. Number two, ADHD medication is a crutch. It's hard for me to talk about this one without getting upset. Medication isn't for everyone with ADHD. It is a double edged sword because it comes with side effects that are intolerable for some people, but when it works, medication corrects or and levels the playing field The idea that medication gives goes back to the belief but a decision you make expected of you like you can It is true that people with ADHD can hyperfocus on the things but they can't control the things that they're interested in. You can wave a million dollars &quot;You get this if you can and summarize them this week.&quot; The money doesn't give them and complete the task. If the content of the material doesn't resonate in a way they won't be able to complete the task. It just won't happen, even though they desperately wanted to. So this hyperfocus interest thing is not just something that they pick and choose based on selfish interests. Also, the hyperfocus can be a bad thing because they can get locked into something and lose track of time, and therefore neglect or be late to things, making people angry, or not completing assignments because they got lost in something while they were hyperfocused. I mentioned not taking medication This hyperfocused thing can as a consequence of taking stimulants. You may have five things You take your Adderall, and six hours later, you've done one thing. That one thing is fleshed that's probably overkill, but you've let some people down by not doing the other things. Number three, myth. If you cared enough, you'd remember things. This is related to the to the things that interest you, and the assumption that you People with ADHD can Memory requires a certain amount of focus and attention to a subject and then retrieve it later. If you don't attend to it will not be encoded A good example of this is right after they said it. For example, let's say I walk up to You may see me and the first thought is her hair looks awfully thick. Can she get a comb through it? You may even imagine If that's what's going on in your mind while I'm saying my name, you're not going to encode the information even though you heard it because your mind was This is how it can be all the time with someone with ADHD; information goes in one and only some of it gets retained. The things that get retained are not cherry picked based Sometimes it's just random, but this can be a difficult thing for people close to you to accept even though they understand and that's where you has to create a system that reminds you of the things that are for the sake of your Number four, accommodations an unfair advantage. Most school accommodations are things like getting or complete assignments, and there are other things like sitting near the front of the class or taking tests in a separate room. People who believe this myth are usually referring to the extra time. Hey, I got a concert I want to go to the night before an assignment is due. I want to get some extra time too. The extra time needed is because of the things like getting sucked or having trouble organizing your time, or even reading and It can take you longer just to read and reread the questions on a test. The person without ADHD If you need more time for a test because you're not prepared that's a completely different because you process Number five, people with Things like needing more time for tests and assignments can make but if you have ADHD, you can even think this about yourself, especially if you're failing classes or struggling to finish work tasks that your coworkers don't In this setting, it's easy to think what's wrong with me? I'm just not good at anything. But the information processing impairment that comes with ADHD is a from intellectual capacity. Think of it as a performance issue. You have a certain set of capabilities, but you stumble with I'll use myself as an example. You hear about people being I could never read a book in a day. I can only stay focused so long before I forget what I read So I have to read very slowly Because of my slow reading, my fifth grade teacher told me or told my parents that I don't Fortunately, my parents and encouraged me to focus on the things that I was good at like math and science. But if you don't have this kind of rhetoric and shape what you think about yourself, especially when it comes or people whose opinions matter to you. Number six, people with ADHD It can look like laziness or lack of discipline from the outside, but on the inside, it's lack of adequate motivation. The motivation I'm talking about is a brain-derived motivation And what do I mean by that? I've heard it said you're not motivated? You can't remember? Well, maybe if I pull out my belt, you'll get motivated. No. Punishment, shaming, and The threat of losing your or get the person moving get in the way of getting their work done. But the person with ADHD has a brain that does not and the nerve circuits that I talk about that in detail I'll have that video linked and in the description. As for laziness, what seems like an easy task can seem monumental to The low motivation from low dopamine can make you feel completely Inertia is defined as a property of matter where things at rest remain at rest or remain in motion unless With ADHD, you can't that changes your current state. You know you need to do this thing, but you're stuck in this mind space and just can't get out of it. And similarly, with the hyperfocus, you can be moving at 50 and you can't get out of the fast lane. You just have to keep going that forces you out of it or So the inactivity here is involuntary. Last myth, number seven is ADHD medication makes people with ADHD more or drug seeking. This belief stems back to is unnecessary because that requires medication to correct it. It is true that stimulants but the addiction comes from the people who are taking them for and not to correct a Stimulants produce immediate results within minutes to an hour. And like other medications that produce these quick your body can become So over time, the dose that you took and you need a higher dose I usually encourage my patients to take breaks from the or vacation if they can because giving your body a break from it slows the tolerance process. But tolerance can happen with anyone and isn't proof that Addiction happens when someone like taking it around the clock to be on top of their game day and night. And this might be someone and needs to be awake for 20 hours a day, but our bodies aren't meant to The current Adderall and Ritalin shortages perpetuate this myth. Adderall and Ritalin are in the same category of abuse Now, many of them are back ordered and some pharmacies if you call them won't tell you over the phone You then may have to drive around shopping from pharmacy to And all this secrecy and where you can't and the vibe around taking stimulants and puts you into a drug seeking mode, which is something Technically, you are drug seeking, but you're seeking the that you were prescribed Take a look at these other videos that I have on ADHD, understanding the brain and how it can look differently in adults, and share this video with someone you think believes some of these myths so that we can decrease the stigma around having the disorder Thanks for watching. See you next time.