Hey, everybody. Don Georgevich here. I hope you're doing well today. Hopefully, you have a second interview, because you can prepare yourself for your second interview. So, if youve got a second interview, pat Congratulations. That means there's a company out there that want to explore that with you further. They want to see if you want to work there So, when you go to the second interview, now Don't worry if you stumble on a question or This is natural; it's okay. You don't have to go in there and answer every It's okay to stumble on your answers; it's It shows that it shows that you're real; it It shows that this is a natural setting and So, if you stumble on a question or two, don't on to the next one. Don't put yourself down over that. So before you go into your second interview, to do this job. They're going to want to hear it. They're going to want to hear how you think are facing this position. So, a good idea is to fully understand what So, you may even want to go in with some type that shows them you've been thinking about how you plan to do it. Whether it's right or wrong, they're going into this job. And when you take your personal time and you you're genuinely interested in working for It shows that you want to be there, that you kind of person you're going to be if they about the challenges that are around the corner. So, having a plan is one of the best ways this job. Because believe it or not, just because you're for jobs, that doesn't necessarily mean that for them. It just means you're looking for a job. And they can't necessarily sense how enthusiastic So, this is one way to take that to the next the job, and here's how you're going to do Trust me, they will be impressed. But more than anything, let them know you Every company has pains, they have challenges, I mean, why else would they be hiring you? They're hiring you because they had some problems It could just be a simple job; they need somebody have a problem and they're looking to you So, let them know that you understand what are; repeat it back to them. And then, what they're going to think is and This guy or this woman really understands This is the kind of person that we want working So, make sure that message comes through in So, in a second interview, they're starting So, don't disappoint them. Let them know that you're a team player and that shows how you have worked with teams your last job. I mean, it's one thing to just say, Yes, them how you're a team player. Put it in context for them; don't just say, was a team player. These are the teams that I worked on. These are the teams that I've built. Communicate that effectively to them. Let them know that you're a leader; a teacher, I mean, actually you've been all of those You've been a teacher, you've been a leader, You just probably don't realize it when you things. And this is what companies are looking for. They're looking for people to lead, theyre knowledge, to share what they know with other Instead of just keeping all that information the kind of person that likes to share that everybody is on the same page. And when you have good communication in a You also want to be prepared to talk about Because they're going to ask you, they're ability to do this job. And you don't want to just say, Yeah, I Yeah I have that kind of experience. You got to give them specifics. When they ask you questions, you not only but you want to tell them, Here's how I've Let me give you an example. Here's a project I worked on that use this Give them specific examples of things you've that you are extremely qualified and knowledgeable You want to remove all the doubt from their Because they have a lot of doubt from anybody They have a lot of doubt about their abilities And so, the interview is a way to test you, problems are, and that you can be a solution And the best way to do that is to talk about on projects in the past. I mean, think about it this way for a second. If you were interviewing someone for your them? Think about that. What kind of questions would you ask someone Those are the kind of questions you should be ready for them. Think about your past projects and experiences write down in detail. And what this is going to do; this is going those past projects in the interview. Don't just count on being able to talk about You want to rewrite all of those ahead of so that you can speak about them like they But if you go into the interview and you don't going to tell your stories, you're just going projects, what's going to happen when you your projects in a different order than what So, if you don't do that, you have to remember, a little bit different. There's going to be a little bit more pressure more nervous, you're not going to have that that you worked on. So, that's why I really encourage you to write it a lot easier for you in the interview to you worked on. One of the things they're going to want to into what your plans are for this position It's a bit of a test. They're going to want to see what you think are you going to need, what resources are certain hurdles? They're going to want to know all of this And when you can talk about your past experiences; job, this is going to put them at ease and if they hire you, that you're going to be for them. Because this is a second interview and you've make sure that everything you've said in your say in the second interview. So, if you were lying about some certain things say the same thing in a second interview, So, make sure that everything you say in the you say in the second interview. You want to make sure that you don't create Because if they catch a contradiction between second interview, that's probably it for you. You're not probably not even going to say They're just not going to call you back. So, keep that in mind. Be consistent in the second interview with interview. And to wrap this up when you go in there. Make sure you give them a good firm handshake eyes and smile, show your teeth, show them there. Happy people are great. People like to be around happy people. So, let up some smile. And when you go in there and you give a big that's an image that is going to stick in They're going to remember that, they're going that you're a happy person and people like So, go there, be happy, smile. And even while you're talking and interviewing Just smile at them while you're talking. And when you smile, this is also going to This is going to release some of the tension And what I'd like to do is when I go into things that I want to talk about, but I'm every time I look down at my notes, I've got sure that I'm showing a big grin, and that to be there. Now, don't overdo it; don't go in there and You want to be natural, you want to be fun, know that is the kind of place you want to That's all I have for you today. Good luck on your second interview. I hope you get the job offer after that. If not, maybe you'll go to a third. If you got a third interview, just stay along today for the second interview strategy, because interview. Alright, my friend. Good, better, best, never let it rest, until We'll see you in the next video. If youve found this video helpful, give to my channel, so you get notifications every And by subscribing, you support me, my message, So, I'd really appreciate it. Make sure you hit Subscribe.