(gentle music) Welcome to my world. (energetic music) Two escargots ponte frisee. Two green salads. Okay, (mumbles) here. Lamb chops, steak frites. Shouldn't you be Two smoked fillet, Come on, make the dessert. Chocolate tart, please. As a cook, tastes and Now I'm in search of new ones so I'm leaving New York City, and hope to have a few and I'm willing to go to I am looking for extremes I'll try anything, I have nothing to lose. (ambient music) Tiny, tiny little menu. Now a sensible chef would probably go Hugely popular But my center of food I'm catching a train to just outside of Bordeaux. My father's side of and generations of I haven't been I'm going back to the Hopefully there'll and maybe we'll discover I'm really looking Of all of the places of all the places I've been, I'm really excited Arcachon. My father loved this town. It's where he spent He imparted the spirit of this and it's where we spent many (children playing) It's where I crept (children laughing) Where I had my first and most I have powerful of murky brown fish The taste of Saucisson a I'Ail, the smell of Gitanes cigarettes. Those summers played an important (ambient music) So I want to go back and I want to relive those moments. My father's long so it's my way of reconnecting of family and tradition I have. Arcachon's located on the which spills out into It's sort of the where working families vacation. The main trade year-round Cool. I know longer have but I'm hooking up with He was my partner in crime We're gonna take this trip but I've got some time to Snack time. Above and beyond being I cook all of this stuff. This is the food that I first You know, French cuisine, I'm a chef of a French so for my first meal in town, I'm looking for the Some classic brasserie Okay, we're here. I can hear my steak going (steak sizzling) This is sort of like a French This is a sort of place Basically, it's beer, bread, Merci. [Server] Bon appetit. Oh, yes. This is a bavette, a typical grilled with shallots. This is my first back in France in 20 years, Just what I wanted to tuck into. I'm very grateful they didn't So this is a good halfway house for someone taking a back into the France I'm not plunging immediately I'm easing back. It's a great, comfortable Merci monsieur, au revoir. Au revoir. Yeah, feelin' good. I'm home, baby. I really want waffles. I should probably do that That was a big thing My brother's like me. He lives in New York, I'm supposed to meet him but I run into You walkin' around, Yeah. What's up? When you blow into town? We just got in. Oh yeah? Have you eaten yet? I had like a little snack. Maybe a waffle? I saw there's a Yeah, let's do it. I think I saw it over there. Let me ask you this. Do you get an electric buzz and you start seeing like St. Louis Chambon, I think I saw Louis My brother and I in Arcachon in 25 years. Of course the first thing we were discouraged Sweets. What do we got here? What kind of gaufre? When we were kids, could we get a treat. If we could score a gaufre, So a gaufre was a sweet, Memories, da-da-da-da You know, it's magic. But you know, that's because of long ago, far away, when I bite into Do they taste different? When they're warm, and and all that stuff. Yeah, cool. This is great. (laughing) I think if my mother tucking into waffles with wild Alright. [Chris] This is great. We're heading to La Teste, a We're gonna check out and the local food joints. Look at us, my brother and me. I'm 44, he's 42. We've gone far away to France. Everything's changed, that some things La Teste. I'll tell you, if I'm gonna be really pissed off. [Chris] Oh, God. I'm nervous. Whoever thought we'd do [Chris] Goofy and fun. (train speeding) Our first stop is the house It no longer belongs but there's a picture I look in our silly little and we're wearing berets, standing in front of I want to see that space. Can you remember the direction? It was this way. Yeah. (engine roaring) I remember La Teste as a and as soon as we make it seems the time has [Chris] The town Nope. [Chris] That's (mumbles) It looks exactly No, it's great. Those two there are like (photo snapping) I'd say that's exactly like Yeah. We go this way. Yeah, the fire station. Hey remember we had a Yeah, exactly. (French music) So we're right on our block? It's across the I think it's down, Oh, we're very, very close. This is so weird. Gettin' chills, man. Okay, so it's number five. [Chris] Number five, exactly. There was a gate right here. But it was just a low, wooden... This was where the... That's right. The famous picture was taken. Yeah, and then they put That's not changed at all. Gardens in the The little dining area in the That was your room for awhile, and I was across the (speech drowned Were in the back. And their one 25-watt light bulb they used to light The current owner, kindly lets us in I just want to see the garden where I used to drink Fantastic. It's fantastic! It looks exactly the same. Right here, buying my I learned how to crack Buy like a six-pack of Kronenbourg Many happy lunches right there. That's where my (speaking made wonderful, fresh tomato shallots, and parsley. You know, it was the I was six. Oh, it's incredible. (photo snapping) Chris, the pump used to be here. The hand crank pump. Yeah, that's right. I wonder if there's still buried in here somewhere. (laughs) Probably. Ah, memories. Oh man, this is too much. Well, should we check out [Chris] Sure... Before we leave, we (photo snapping) So actually, if we we'll hit where where the boulangerie was... Just like a couple blocks past. Part of that main drag. Past the school, yeah. [Anthony] This we'd get breakfast [Chris] Bonjour, madame. I haven't smelled [Chris] Un baguette. Deux Parisan... We order baguette, Au revoir. Au revoir. Merci. Alright. Okay, here we go. Recipe unchanged in 20 years. Absolutely. There's a slight like Mm-hmm. You know? Absolutely. I remember I died for Magic. It's the best. This raisin bread is But I've got a that's right around the corner. Basically, if we're too and we couldn't agree on and what we're gonna we'd go around at basically the It's called Le Bistro now. Exactly the sort of place the have been eating It was very convenient, But what really drew us was their fish soup. Soup du pecheur. We're there. (slow music) The restaurant has It was rattier. It was rattier. I seem to remember like, and maybe a peeling It was basic (people I hope the fish soup It was the best [Chris] Merci. Here, they call it The soup du pecheur. I guess I was impressed by and strangeness... It was kind of exotic, yeah. It was murky, and it was I really loved that stuff. As soon as I started it was one of the first It's basically fresh shredded and reduced to with a licorice-y hit of garnished with parsley. Of course, I never got it It looks great. Merci. The soup even assortment of condiments. This is exactly right. Croutons, Gruyere cheese, and a garlic and These traditional its rich, hearty flavor. That's wonderful. Mm. That's just great. So even though this the soup is just Okay, this place has not changed Life is beautiful. This is the best. Good to be here with you. Of course. Chris, I could not I could not be happier (engine running) Bonjour. I'll never forget It was the summer of 1965. It came from a day the little oyster boat of my He took the whole family out. We went out early, early We waited for the tides This was when Monsieur Sanjour and I slurped it down to the It was a defining moment for me. So my brother and I are back. We joined two oyster to check out their and maybe hit 'em But as with so many things so much is the same, The oyster parks are In fact, their property extends I have no idea how they but they say they know. Today, these guys are checking on their two year All of these little platforms It's sort of like This allows the water It protects them from predators. The ones that we're are gonna go into shore, They'll be sorted Tomorrow they'll be placed for the nutrients they need. It'll be another year will be hitting I don't know how he's doin' I'm freezin' my butt I'm wrapped up like Did I mention it's This, as you can see, Pull in a couple of tons I mean I remember the It was a fairly Of course we had the advantage of doing it in the Yes. I also remember the We were walking We'd sit here for a few hours. The boat would go down, Yeah. We almost had a picnic up, and walkin' around A lot has changed since and it looks like I fresh out of the water. But in truth, that was a once This was my most triumphant There was wonderful Everybody seemed to I just see this glistening, I thought, okay I can do this. Just one bite, one slurp. Boom, I did it. And I felt like I guess it was that moment to think about food as It sure caused a You looked like you and pitch over the edge. Yeah, well yeah. I like 'em now. You're eatin' them now. It was gross. I thought it was gross. I've been lookin' and impress ever since. Here's a lascivious fact that Oysters change sex every year. So Chris, how do they The females spew out millions and the males just and it all just mixes Sort of like a pool at Club Med. Absolutely a cess going on out here. If you were to tell an that would not be an insult. (laughing) Some might argue that the It provides its own sauce, requires no shaping and it's hard to imagine This is where they come from. Dominique and Jerome of their oysters And after 28 years I wonder if they're gonna taste the same. Oysters for breakfast, babe. Okay, moment of truth. Fantastic. Merci. Alrighty. Go ahead. Do it. Mm. Oh, amazing. The liquor, and the salt water. The oyster liquor It's essential. Arcachon oysters do Brine, flesh, Eating fresh oysters at an oyster shack. Yeah, what's better than this? Cheers. This is really great. I realize eating these to stepping into a time machine. But Chris and I before our adventure ends. First, we need to shop This looks lovely. We're ordering cuts of and an assortment of sausages. What I'm really going or pork sausage with garlic. [Chris] Saucisson? It was my father's favorite. We're stocked up so we're off to Cap-Ferret on the northern coast This thing's got juice, man. Okay, let's ride. (engines revving) (rock music) So what were we thinking? Riding scooters all in the dead of winter, cold, windy beach? It's an insane venture. But hey, cruisin' I'm starting to feel 16 again. Hey, let's go terrorize (rock music) Frostbitten to the bone, we Let's hit the beach! Let's go. Of course I remember Atlantic beach Oh yeah, me too. [Anthony] We'd come out We'd sit on the beach, swim, I remember my father's on the beach at Cap-Ferret. His digging into his sausage, and a nice fresh baguette. He knew exactly how [Chris] Want to [Anthony] Yeah. When Chris and I got we'd head towards one of where we used to play as kids. These blockhouses were the Atlantic Wall as a defensive measure of France in World War II. Hey, maybe we'll hit a landmine. [Chris] Oh yeah. [Anthony] Or some I remember there on the side like that. (slow guitar music) Yes. This was a wild and great beach, but this hasn't changed at all. Just great. This was a great place We'd lay out our usual bottle of Vittel, an and picnic meats. The first thing my is Saucisson a I'Ail, I remember this well. It's the sausage more That's the taste (ambient music) When you're a little kid, and you grow up playing with little plastic Army men, you imagine battlefields So when we came here this is what battlefields making those funny accents... It's not Normandy kind of a fun time But why leave it We brought along our We're older and more mature now. More mature now. (Laughs) (energetic music) Oh, very nice! My eye! Fire in the hole! (firecrackers firing) Damn! We didn't get those [Chris] No. (laughing) Get in that hole, corporal. Come on. Fire in the hole. (firecrackers firing) [Chris] (laughs) (energetic music) Then we're gonna light it, we're gonna run we're gonna take Run away! (bottle exploding) [Chris] Good one. Outstanding, corporal. Most excellent. Got the bastards. (grunting) Alright. (peaceful music) I'm glad we made it, man. Wouldn't have missed it. I'm really glad we Me too. I know that my brother that things can't be the Things change, things move on. One can't recapture the past. So one can go through the but no matter how wonderful, One cannot be nine Later, talking we realized that for my father the whole time. We had a very nice You know, how badly and how much he would've throwing firecrackers inside Dad would've loved this. He would've just loved He would've loved the idea. He would've loved Yeah. (peaceful music) (energetic music)