Translator: Leonardo Silva William Morris once said, that you do not know to be useful These are words I live by for two reasons: I love being surrounded by beauty, and my physical surroundings I can meditate and do yoga but if I'm surrounded by a mess I am unable to focus, to work or to relax. A serene space is a requirement both professionally and personally. Clear countertops, an empty desk to write on. That thought alone but the world I live in doesn't readily There are more products The 1950s-era supermarket but by the 1990s, Let's take a look at a swanky Notice the lack of clutter, the negative space, This is no longer the ideal, or, even if it is to some people, We, as a society, are accumulating much of which can be to when imports to America allowing huge amounts of cheap toys, As a result of this accumulation, 1 in 11 American households to rent self-storage space. One quarter of households have so much stuff in there, And although US consumers we buy 40% of the world's toys. So, while I find this New York apartment it wasn't necessarily I remember coveting There was the Berenstain Bear the pencil collection the Teddy Bear collection, I wanted more of all of it. More equaled better, which equaled All I have to say is, because at 19, wanting to see the world, where I spent a good deal of time with a bunch of joyous children They were happy and fulfilled, but they had none of the collections A broken bicycle tire And, when I say &quot;entertain&quot;, emanating from their beings What's more, my stuff Due to weight restrictions I was only allotted 40 pounds for the entire four months away, Yet, I felt unencumbered. It was freeing, and my days became filled So, a seed was planted, but it wasn't I judged American consumerism, but I bought tons of trinkets Many were for friends and family, but many were for me. I shipped a huge box of tourist gear But this was a unique circumstance, right? That box was proof It was proof that I was How I came to believe otherwise I became a minimalist became more important than my possessions. Seven years ago, I started writing For the better part of my life, and here I was, rolling out of bed, planting myself at my desk, It was a passion I never knew I had. And I was willing to go for as long as I was around. I was living in New York at the time, living paycheck to paycheck, After all, India had taught me But the more I wrote, to daydream, to brainstorm, to create. So, here's the thing about necessity My bedroom walls I had to create space and it was a small bedroom, and pages upon pages of files proof that I had earned (Laughter) So, to create space, I checked my desk, I figured, &quot;In this day an age, a desk is unnecessary.&quot; I scanned all my graduate school files, I recycled all that paper, and I even downsized my book collection, but, after doing so, I had That became my writing space, and my room got bigger. So, I had decluttered to the essentials, but I loved beauty, and I was in New York, or, I should say, New York because we would all agree, I had no idea how to put an outfit together So, once the city schooled me the decluttering extended to my closet, because it was (Laughter) I got rid of anything that didn't I was ruthless about it, Gone were the days of hemming wondering if I looked OK. When I did make purchases, paused to make sure I really loved them, then purchased sparingly. I like to call this &quot;the power of pause&quot; I used my teeny apartment, my teeny closet and my teeny budget And I continue to use them today, even though my life couldn't look I moved to Indianapolis. I moved in with a man We've just sold and have moved And big reveal: I'm about to have a baby. (Laughter) Seriously; I'm 35 weeks along. We might want to flag any doctors (Laughter) So - While I moved to Indianapolis I moved into his fully furnished house. And guess what the first thing I decluttered. I love my husband, and I knew he loved me when we went through and decided whether to donate it, In my defense, he had become the bachelor that all of his friends had given when they got married. But he's also a collector. So, when he put his foot down I got to learn what his passions are, When we got married, we asked because we didn't need anything, but, when we got pregnant, we welcomed the baby showers I don't want minimalism to shackle me just like I don't want So, in this season of accumulation, and the art of conscious consumption I have called that list more - conscious consumption and I have gone to town But when the baby years are over, I will declutter what is and pass on the baby gear Now I'm very aware that I could be (Laughter) hates show tunes, but you know what they say, &quot;When the student is ready, So, while I look forward to discovering I also plan to use simple living When I teach my little girl it won't be just because It will also be that she shares this world and having a healthy respect is part and parcel to being during our time here on Earth. I believe a home should be a haven, a place to return to, so that we can better deal that are inherently going to be instead of add to them. When asked how he created Michelangelo said, &quot;It was simple. You just chip away until you see David.&quot; What if our life is our masterpiece? And what if we chip away until we see what matters most, What would that life be like? So, I just want to ask two things The first is I ask and you find some quiet, serene space, and you imagine what your one that has nothing to do or how you think but how you truly, authentically want to. And then, the only other thing I ask is that you wake up tomorrow, and you chip away all that is unnecessary, until you're living your masterpiece. Thank you. (Applause)