Tonight marks the beginning of a 2-night, 3-day tour of Ginzan Onsen. Please enjoy the fantastical world of winter. Our journey starts at Tokyo Station. Today, we finally stay at the long-awaited Ginzan Onsen! We will head to Ginzan Onsen by taking the Yamagata Shinkansen. It takes approximately 3 hours and 30 minutes from Tokyo Station to the nearest station to Ginzan Onsen. It's my first time going to Yamagata. I'm very excited! Arrived at Oishida Station. The inn we reserved this time includes a shuttle bus from Oishida Station to Ginzan Onsen. This year is a warm winter, so it seems there is less snow than usual. About 25 minutes by bus from Oishida Station. We have finally arrived at Ginzan Onsen! Oh... there is no snowfall at all. But it has a nostalgic atmosphere and is very quaint. The hotel we are staying at this time is &quot;Honkan Kosekiya&quot;. It is a very popular hotel that was renovated in July 2022. The drinks in the lobby lounge are all-you-can-drink 24 hours. This hotel is all-inclusive. Rubber boots and geta (Japanese wooden sandals) are available for loan at the entrance. Footbath towels are also available for free. The room we booked is a riverside Japanese-style room on the third floor. There's an elevator in the hotel, so moving around is very easy. The room keys are managed with QR codes. This time, I stayed with my mother. The room size is 20.00 square meters, with a toilet included. Opening the door, there is a wide veranda where you can view the streets of Ginzan Onsen. The hotel has a total of 14 rooms. There are only two riverside Japanese-style rooms. The phone in the room is a dial type. The phone is fully functional. Cute appearance. The closet contains cold-weather gear with the Kosekiya logo. You can't take it home, but it's very useful for going out at night. There are several dining halls and cafes in Ginzan Onsen. This time, we went to &quot;Yukemuri Shokudo Shirogane,&quot; which just opened in April 2022. Guests staying at Honkan Kosekiya are offered special prices for meals! From the second-floor counter seats, you can enjoy the view of Ginzan Onsen. A menu exclusive to hotel guests. I was surprised when I opened the menu. Some dishes are half the regular price or even free! If you order too much and leave it, you'll have to pay the regular price. Most alcoholic drinks, meat, and salad dishes are also free!! The special prices are available from 15:30 on the day of check-in until 14:00 the next day. Open until 22:00, takeaway menu is also free. Drinks include Japanese sake tasting (1980 yen) and Maruef draft beer (600 yen). Normally, these would cost money, but they are free for hotel guests. And it's all-you-can-drink. Yay!! You can enjoy six types of local sake from Yamagata. Plum wine soda mix (660 yen) and a dish of secret bean tomato stew with pork belly herb breadcrumb bake (700 yen). These fees are also included in the all-inclusive, so they are free. So delicious!! Recreated Ginzan Tsukune charcoal grilled (600 yen). No additional charge for this either. Delicious! Steamed vegetables (600 yen) and a dessert plate (600 yen) were also free this time! Be sure to try it when you stay at Honkan Kosekiya! There are no convenience stores around Ginzan Onsen, so this service is very much appreciated. I feel like I understand why this hotel is so popular. Night has fallen on the streets of Ginzan Onsen. It didn't snow today, but it seems like it will tomorrow. Looking forward to it. We'll return to the inn and head to the hot springs. There are two types of public baths in the hotel, which can be enjoyed by men and women at separate times, switching at 8 AM and 8 PM. Amenities include: toothbrush set, towels, yukata, face &amp; hand soap, cleansing lotion, emulsion, facial toner, and socks for geta (Japanese wooden sandals). This time, special permission was granted to take photos of the large communal bath. First, a bathroom tiled in white, recreating the history of Ginzan Onsen. Though the bath is on the smaller side, it never felt crowded as there are only 14 guest parties. The entire space is white, giving a sensation of being enveloped entirely. There's a faint smell of sulfur. The water temperature is just perfect. Next is the black bath. Unlike the previous one, this bath is completely black, giving it a totally different atmosphere. This bath was built on the site of the study of the previous owner, who was also a calligrapher. The water temperature here is also perfect. After bathing, it's time for dinner. &quot;Nogawa Tei.&quot; This establishment is exclusive to guests staying at &quot;Honkan Kosekiya.&quot; Like Shirogane Dining Hall, drinks here are also all-you-can-drink. For drinks, we chose a sparkling wine named &quot;Polestar Glass.&quot; The meal is a course menu featuring ingredients from Yamagata. First up is lily root manju. Hot and tastes like yam, very delicious. Salad with shallow-pickled vegetables and smoked duck. The vegetables are fresh and very tasty. Pumpkin soup. The meal is delicious, of course, but all the tableware is stylish and chic. Salmon mi-cuit. Mi-cuit means the dish is half-cooked. The main course is roasted Yamagata black beef and red wine stew. It's tender with just the right amount of fat, very delicious. The dessert plate features a silhouette in sugar powder. A dish that makes you feel like you've come to Ginzan Onsen. When we returned to our room, the futons had been laid out. Thank you. This concludes the first day at Ginzan Onsen. Good morning. It's the morning of day two. Ah!! It's snowing!!! Having grown up in a prefecture where it rarely snows, seeing so much snow really excites me. This is a blessing of snow. January and February, when it snows, are the hardest months to book an inn at Ginzan Onsen. Originally, I was supposed to leave Ginzan Onsen today. But wanting to stay another night, my mother called a ryokan in Ginzan Onsen. And then, a last-minute cancellation allowed us to stay another night at the popular inn &quot;Nagasawa Heihachi&quot;! Thank you, mom! Breakfast is served in the 1F lounge, which has a doma (earthen floor) and an irori (sunken hearth). Wow!!! It's so luxurious! Local dishes from Yamagata and seasonal cuisine are offered. Oh!! This is Yamagata's local dish &quot;Imoni&quot; (taro stew)!! My first time trying Imoni. You can taste the richness of the beef. It's much more delicious than I imagined! From now on, when asked about my favorite dish, I'll answer with Imoni. The breakfast spread is so luxurious, everything is incredibly delicious. All the dishes at Koseki-ya are delicious! The hotel's checkout time is 10:00. It has started snowing more since the morning, accumulating on the ground. Even though it wasn't snowing at all yesterday, it's amazing how quickly it can snow in a snowy region. I left my luggage at &quot;Ryokan Nagasawa Heihachi.&quot; Check-in time is at 15:00. Discovered natural icicles! In the prefecture where I live, it hardly ever snows, so everything related to snow feels fresh and exciting. But it's so cold that I can't stay outside for long. Decided to warm up at a cafe named &quot;Crie&quot; in Ginzan Onsen town. The only red post box in the onsen town is the landmark. The cafe is very popular, so you often have to wait in line. How fantastically beautiful! From the cafe, you can see a world that seems like it could be a movie set. When the cafe is full, there's a rule that limits your stay to one hour. This time, I ordered the most popular item at the cafe, baked cocoa. It looked so delicious that I also ordered a homemade pudding. The baked cocoa is topped with roasted marshmallows, making it look cute. And the pudding looks absolutely delicious. The cocoa is slightly sweet and warms the body. The caramel is a bit bitter, offering a mature taste. The pudding is firm and extremely delicious!! Came to the souvenir shop on the first floor of the cafe. Since there's still time until check-in, I decided to buy souvenirs in advance. The shopkeeper loves cats, so there are lots of cat goods in the store. Of course, there are also many local souvenirs and sweets for sale. For souvenirs, I bought cherry-flavored Pocky and Ginzan senbei this time. The Ginzan senbei looked so cute, it was an impulse buy. Ginzan Onsen is also famous for being the setting of NHK's serial drama &quot;Oshin.&quot; So, I also bought some Oshin pickles. And, wanting to feel the atmosphere of Ginzan Onsen even after returning home, I bought some bath salts. From the afternoon, the number of tourists has increased. Today, due to the Spring Festival, which celebrates the Lunar New Year in China, Taiwan, and Singapore, many foreigners have come for sightseeing. While walking around the town of Ginzan Onsen, I found a dragon-shaped container from which hot spring water flows. The container is filled with a large number of coins. Here, I'll introduce two recommended eateries for street food in Ginzan Onsen. A takeout specialty shop, &quot;Ganso Nogawa Tofuya.&quot; The shop's popular menu items are yudofu and fried tofu. Decided to eat tofu while soaking in a nearby footbath. Today's temperature is 0 degrees. Extremely cold. It's super cold, but the view while soaking in the footbath is breathtaking. Starting with the yudofu (hot tofu). It has a gentle aroma and taste similar to yuzu, which is delicious. The fried tofu has a crispy coating and is also exquisite. It's perfect for a light meal. Next is &quot;Meiyu-an,&quot; selling sweets for souvenirs in Ginzan Onsen. The interior of the store has a retro and comforting feel. Many celebrities' autographs are displayed. They also sell apple juice, which I've had in the Gran Class of the Shinkansen Hayabusa. This time, I'm trying an apple cider, a drink I haven't seen in other prefectures. The store's recommended street food gourmet are curry bread and fried manju!!! Next, we'll enjoy gourmet food while soaking in a foot bath on the bridge. Even though it's so cold, finding a foot bath makes you want to enter it for some reason. So, here's Street Food Gourmet Part 2! The curry bread uses wheat flour from Yamagata Prefecture, making it a local specialty. The stock varies daily, so you're lucky if you can get one. The coating is crispy, and the curry inside is quite spicy. The spices are perfect for a cold day. Next are the fried manju. They are filled with plenty of sweet bean paste. These are incredibly delicious. My body and soul are now dyed with Ginzan Onsen. There are 13 ryokans (Japanese inns) around Ginzan Onsen. Ginzan Onsen is on solid ground, making it very difficult to construct new ryokans or hotels. The advantage of the solid ground is that it's less affected by earthquakes compared to other areas. It's time for check-in. Tonight, I'm staying at &quot;Ryokan Nagasawa Heihachi.&quot; Nagasawa Heihachi is a traditional wooden three-story ryokan built in 1925. The lounge is so beautiful that it's hard to believe it was built a hundred years ago. The waiting room has a nostalgic atmosphere. There are also Ginzan Kokeshi dolls. Cute. The ceiling was decorated with photos and autographs of actors who appeared in the drama &quot;Oshin.&quot; Tonight's room is &quot;Yakushi&quot; on the second floor. You have to go up the stairs to get to the room. Oh! It's quite spacious. There's a bed on the tatami floor, combining the best of Japanese and Western styles. Wow! The back is also quite spacious!! This room also faces the river. You can see &quot;Honkan Koseki-ya,&quot; where I stayed yesterday, right in front. As evening falls, lights gradually illuminate the town, giving it an even more fantastical atmosphere. Dinner is a kaiseki meal inside the ryokan. Despite booking the hotel on the day, the meal is incredibly luxurious. There's meat, fish, fresh vegetables, and even my favorite imo-ni (potato stew). Yamagata beef!! First, a toast with plum wine as an aperitif. The sashimi includes shrimp, sea bream, salmon, and scallop. It looks beautiful, is fresh, and very delicious. Crab gratin. The surface is crispy while the inside is creamy. It's incredibly delicious even though it's piping hot. Steamed dish of white fish. Every gourmet dish I've eaten in Ginzan Onsen is delicious. There's a huge amount of my favorite dish, imo-ni (potato stew). The soy sauce-based soup tastes somewhat similar to sukiyaki. Now I understand why the Imo-ni Festival is so popular. Yamagata beef is very thick and incredibly delicious. The inns in Ginzan Onsen are of a very high standard. At Ryokan Nagasawa Heihachi, you can enjoy two types of hot springs, both indoor and outdoor. Inside the closet, there are yukatas, towels, and socks. The yukata marked with &quot;Nagasawa Heihachi&quot; is adorable. Amenities include towels and a toothbrush. Again, I was granted permission to film, and I took some shots inside the large bath. This is the indoor bath on the first floor. The rooms and baths have been renovated and are very clean. The painting of a waterfall on the wall has a very cute and atmospheric feel. The outdoor bath is available for private use. It's quite cold compared to the indoor bath because the windows are open. But since it's private, you can enjoy the hot spring to your heart's content. Such a nice bath. As night falls, the snow starts falling again. With fewer tourists around, Ginzan Onsen becomes very quiet. It's like stepping back into a far-off past. The streets of Ginzan Onsen, brimming with Taisho-era romance, are said to have inspired the setting of Studio Ghibli's &quot;Spirited Away.&quot; The snow piled on the table is powdery. This is what you call powder snow. Ginzan Onsen. Tomorrow is the last day. Good morning. Starting the morning with orange juice. There are lots of drinks in the fridge, but in this inn, they are all for a fee. It's nice that all the drinks are in bottles. Since it snowed quite a bit last night, there's a lot of snow accumulated on the roofs. This is the inn's breakfast. Very luxurious even in the morning!! When you lift the lid, inside is hot yudofu. It's very hot. This inn offers a shuttle bus to Oishida Station in the morning. But I want to stay in Ginzan Onsen a bit longer, so I decided to take the public bus back instead of the shuttle. I don't want to wake up from this dream yet. Ginzan Onsen was once one of Japan's leading silver mines. At its peak, due to the development of silver mines, the population reached up to 220,000 people. As the silver mine began to decline, miners accidentally discovered hot springs while searching for silver veins. Behind Ginzan Onsen, there is a remnant of an old aqueduct tunnel. This tunnel was dug for the drainage, transportation, and access during silver mining. Water drips from above, so umbrellas and boots are essential. Originally, the tunnel extended about 1000 meters, but due to collapses, it is now about 135 meters long. Without lighting, the tunnel is pitch dark even during the day. It's fascinating to think that tens of thousands of people once mined for silver here. Emerging from the tunnel, I found myself in a snowy landscape. Snow play is still fun even as an adult. Living in it might be tough, but I wish I was born in a snowy region... My trip to Ginzan Onsen is almost over. While waiting for the bus, I decide to relax in a cafe. After an hour and a half wait, I finally enter the cafe. Ginzan Onsen doesn't have many shops, so the cafe is very crowded. But the view is incredibly beautiful! Obanazawa city, where Ginzan Onsen is located, is famous for its soba. The menu offers a variety of soba-related dishes. Since I had a big breakfast and am still full, I order the shop's most popular item, black syrup and kinako (soybean flour) soba soft-serve ice cream. Soba seeds are sprinkled on top of the soft-serve ice cream. I also order a blended coffee as an addition. The stylish soft-serve ice cream served in a masu (wooden box). The milk flavor is very rich and delicious!! This must be monaka. It's crispy and delicious. When you pour black syrup and sprinkle kinako, the soft-serve turns into a Japanese-style dessert. I've decided. I'll visit Ginzan Onsen again next year. Be careful with the bus schedule in Ginzan Onsen as there are few buses. I wanted to stay till next week, but just to be safe, I decided to take the 4 PM bus back. Wow!! Such a crowd!! Despite the long line, I managed to get on the bus. Where should I go next? Thank you for watching till the end.