Hello good morning and welcome back to the life of crab and lobster fisherman. I'm joining my friend Jamie and his crew aboard It's a perfect morning a stunner of a day to be working his commercial crab and lobster What I understand I will explain as they do the crew to explain. His gear is already out at sea so we're going of fishing gear. Let's go!! (Engine noise) Which ground do you work in your crab here Is it on clean ground? Yeah all of this is on clean ground, soft yeah you'll see as he lays more rope out the ropes people's feet Looks like mainly Pollack frames in these, Yeah Pollack frames, Hake and stuff like that. Well it's good, it's using something that else. Yeah, basically yeah. Starfish. I was going to say &quot;You're good at catching Well it's a shame there isn't much of a market to swallow. If there was a market for them we wouldn't Haha. They're quite interesting aren't they them Sometimes you get them and they must come em and it's just absolutely stacks of em. Loads of them yeah. Yeah normally summertime. You'll notice here when I asked about what rate of crabs to lobsters on this ground because nine pots and the rest every single one's It shows about being selective about the type these these same style of pots they would different grounds you can Target different So his controls here are working the winch Open the door clear out the contents crewman here rebaits the pot closes it and Just like a really effective working conveyor Just measure this one Only just. She'll do. We caught some Gurnard and took them round Jame ate like 5 fillets. By t'time I sat down there wasn't anything They don't take long to go do they. haha. He was eating them faster than we could cook We prefer a bit of crab to lobster to be fair... Yeah. There we go. First one - 25 pots. That's it. That's one string, that's one Fleet that's First pot to come up went right down at the over the back so now all he's doing is he's on the other end. Shot that out and as you steam away that pot first one back out so they'll just run out It'll become apparent what I was saying about they don't all tangle up when they go back not around anyone's feet because it's the Whereas on ma boat I'll shoot the pots over at the back so as soon as the first one's in the other direction is enough to pull all system. Lets shoot it. See all the ropes running out here First one gone... and now the weight and the drag of that one [Music] Sea gull noises. Theres the last one... last one gone J. Just like that... so pots in pots out. Loads easier like that self shooting rather We were just talking there we were just looking All the little bits that are that have come There's a combination there of of leaches a decorator crab and the million starfish. So that first Lobster that come up first thing now your banding them and keeping them separate Yeah. Ah band em and put them in the tank there, That's the main thing you need to keeping by the time you get it to the market. Yeah. Yeah you don't want nothing to go dead on here you know... Absolutely. Right get the gloves on for the next set. Big boats or stuff like that... I get that many folks who contact me about They either think that it's trawlers, or rod That's right yeah. They don't understand theres anything in-between. Theres literally yeah.... So being able to show that there's smaller as possible yeah yeah because they think fishing, all fishing is - when it isn't. yeah yeah basically it actually is Sea slug or something there isn't there.. Yeah they do say it's a smelly old job the Yeah that's what they are they're just a scavenger It was hard like, they graft. It was one every 7 fathoms like. None stop. they do say but they make big money doing Was gonna say.. These ropes seem to be thicker than the last Seagull noise. Yeah first one up... They're a handful aren't they. Haha They are that... once they've got hold do you land them do ya? Yeah we do at times yeah yeah. There's not much you can do with them, put back out. Where do you want me to stick him? I'll stick him in there yeah (Engine noise) Proper ginger crab that one... he'll have Wrecking or down from Scotland. Too much Iron-bru!! Yeah. Haha. Be nice if it stays like this... okay (Engine noise) a little squat yeah I'll tell you what finger off but a little bit of strength yeah that gauge there one second if you just just they're the guage we got each side there have lobsters, hen crabs inside cock crabs on size yeah yeah that's what it is ones really the process so simple so quick it's um yeah mine with a tape but that's because I'm going what two or three lobsters when these boys and much easier to use a gauge [Music] yourself something quite quite a booming wrecks where I've mapped it against it and I was exactly right yeah yeah I see where I was going on that one yeah know a rack is broken up or something like we'll be only working a couple of options that little bit you move it again really [Music] you like follow the Contour right [Music] thank you this bit means [Music] how many did we get enough please just one of undersides [Music] running in that one's or what not in over yeah buns on your lobsters that you don't bother in here [Music] if you keep it with a key Potter shouldn't the big you know Savage and chocolate yeah and you'll just in a water tank s [Music] otherwise you throw it in the face all that time pumping it full of water [Music] we've got a few boxes there we've got that was just brought through there was an awful in this box just to show the diversity of call him creepy crannies it's some form of interesting [Music] a couple more fleets to go [Music] yeah the [Music] is not good [Music] [Music] um [Music] who's ready for you and Bonnie hen it's good yeah good I came [Music] so [Music] yeah [Music] exactly if [Music] [Music] it's a nice looking hint funny looking girl [Music] foreign [Music] that's the last Fleet gun used to fall a bit you can't go back in another we did have a few lobsters in that last flight yourself I'll tell you why it's got loads we are with Charlie done we've got what we've recognize like 350 odd kilo yeah yeah more and 400 kilowatt crop and in the back of the maybe half a dozen rate lobsters and a big he's landed on the deck but this is the color variation you get between them is blower as that one's here that one looks almost in it London the majority of the catch to the market and a couple of lobsters back because you don't you yeah that's right yeah we sell to in mine there and we sell a little bit online you know just fresh lots of products really a link into the description of the video to it yes or on Facebook yeah yeah I'll put a to get back onto the Marine get those back and our day is done an absolute stun every we had around about 400 kilos of crabs out joining us I hope you found it interesting