"The Persian Empire was a creature of war." rapidly absorbed the Near East through until Alexander the Great destroyed it in the the Persians were part of the Median Empire, of Achaemenes forcefully seized the throne, which would rule Persia for more than 200 years. due to its vast, effective, and well-organized, the infamous immortals--the Persian elite heavy the cavalry their central striking force, rely guarantee success. But what exactly did their questions puzzle historians to this day. In this the armies of the Achaemenid Empire, including how Chapter 1: The Military Machine of an Empire the city of Pasargadae, just north of today's leader as well as an astute administrator, and diverse empire. One key to his success was how imposing Persian culture and traditions upon officials in place, and disrupted everyday life known as satraps, for each province. These their military service and paying him tribute. largely continued as it had before. Because of successors as liberators rather than occupiers. patchwork of cultures and peoples. Cyrus Egypt, and Babylon. At its greatest extent, stretched all the way from Greece to India. The staggering. Endless borders, countless invasions, a large and effective army. Unfortunately, Persian equipment, organization, and tactics of its sources and descriptions from outsiders, such as a prolific source, his reports should always clear when considering his account of the size to Greece in 480 BC: "I cannot give the exact for there is no one who tells us that; but to be one million and seven hundred thousand." is impossible. However, they also agree that the military challenges of their empire, muster up to around 300,000 men at a time. this size would be comparable to some of the it is important to note that we're talking not a standing national army. Persian armies that was reinforced by additional levies and This core of the Persian army was a standing force of heavy infantry mainly These elite fighters probably looked nothing like although Herodotus did describe them as Xerxes' somewhat like this. If you like this image, you as prints in our merch store, which is linked the Ten Thousand are shrouded in myth, but we know their heart. One was the royal guard of 1,000 as depicted here. They're often called butts of their spears. The other household were similarly armed but never depicted in wall armed with spears and bows. In battle, the spears and shields to form a protective wall, flights of arrows over them into the enemy army. by three groups: nonprofessional Persian and mercenaries. Mercenaries, as we discussed in can be challenging to identify. In however, it seems clear that they relied on sources plausibly hint at the use of mercenaries mercenary usage during this time is probably the seize the throne from his brother, Artaxerxes the Battle of Cunaxa in 401 BC, their master way back to Greece. One of their leaders was the their service in his work Anabasis. Many of the but records mention numerous others as well. were recruited in a sort of militia who wrote a groundbreaking 1,196-page history of of granting land to tenant farmers in exchange for determined the required military participation come back to the Persian soldiers shortly, but up the bulk of most Persian armies--the satrapal provinces in a variety of ways. The main job of enforce his authority. They were responsible king expected them to handle minor uprisings and they were allowed to raise troops on their own threats. This was the case, for example, when of Lydia (Tissaphernes) and Phrygia (Pharnabazus) however, the king called upon the satrapal armies campaigns. Every satrapy was obliged to supply example, Bessus, the satrap of Bactria, commanded BC, in which Alexander the Great defeated the final blow to the Achaemenid Empire. satrapies were as different as the empire itself. fighters with pelts, clubs, and wooden helmets, but even if we don't take him literally, were anything but uniform. This was both their By incorporating provincial troops, the Persians before. This gigantism became a characteristic ultimate assurance of success. Indeed, in many through the sheer force of their numbers. The force lacked tactical coherence due to the mixture military traditions and fought in their own ways. anything about the Achaemenid army as a whole, components in our further investigations. "If now you shall think that 'How many look at the sculptures [of those] who bear the Persian man has gone forth far ...; a Persian man this inscription on the tomb of Darius the Great for the Achaemenid army as a whole. This is no the most important weapon of the Persian army. were used by both infantry and cavalry. archer-spearman equipped with a bow, a short although other types, like this figure 8 shield, some form of headgear and a robe, as on this not seem very practical for fighting, which is why figures of high standing in artwork but not soldier wore trousers and a tunic. In addition, as types of body armor, most commonly scale-covered thanks to severely corroded pieces of scale As for weapons, reliefs and mural paintings depict One of them was carried over the shoulder and one distinctive and, according to Herodotus, could who were some of the best in Greece. The form of archers, but generally speaking, there were this one and one with an additional recess in the latter is depicted on the famous Miho jewel and Persian soldiers also used axes and maces, slings, are frequently found in pictorial sources are the so-called Akinakes, a short weapon associated Persian soldiers varied, but a short spear and these armies operated in battle. Mount Behistun in Iran bears a royal inscription the Behistun Inscription, it provides a clue as to Achaemenid army was the king. The historian first victory over the Medes around 559 BCE to the BCE, the armies of Persia answered unequivocally present in person, he always held the authority however, suggests that this policy might have been rebellions, Darius the Great transferred command while he coordinated them and led the main force, simultaneously. This diffusion of military respond quickly and effectively to multiple there are examples in which a king delegated the Aegean campaign of 490 BC, which led to the a Mede, and Artaphernes, Darius' nephew. surrounded by a personal retinue of kinsmen and infantry. Lesser nobility formed the bulk of the infantry. According to Herodotus, the Persian army was made up of 10,000 soldiers and divided into 10 10, with a corresponding officer hierarchy. This control over their armies and made it possible for capability that was far from assured at the time. it's hard to know how the Persian army they used, and Tuplin and Jacobs give us little "Each occasion has distinctive features, but it precise way in which specific troop categories, of battle." Still, there are a few things usually formed the center, while the mercenaries native Persians were assigned the most critical missions. For example, at the famous Battle around the Spartans who were blocking the mountain path. The cavalry was often placed on the wings, known as sparabara, formed a defensive line the back weakened the enemy with a barrage of the enemy while the infantry launched a frontal size of the Persian armies, except when facing a hail of arrows, such as the Greeks. relied on mass with the cavalry and navy. divisions to a whole new level. While Cyrus army during his first conquests, he clearly knew introduced by the Assyrians, cavalry units Cyrus himself had faced the famous horsemen of There, Herodotus tells us, Cyrus defeated the exploiting the horses' natural fear Cyrus conquered the Lydian capital of Sardis and however, Cyrus looked farther east, perhaps Afghanistan. There, cavalry was a necessity. cavalry force. According to World History of branch of the Persian army. From then until the mobile striking force. According to Christopher all evidence regarding Persian cavalry in his played a prominent role in a significant do not know the exact nature of that role, ambiguous to identify patterns or even agree that Persian cavalry rarely used shock and pursuit role, riding up close to the enemy wheeling away. There was also an Arab dromedary and occasionally chariots, although the era of the know a lot, but we do know this: the Persian of cavalry and its use on the battlefield. gigantic armies presented its own challenges. the first to make naval warfare an integral used in combat since prehistoric times and who made the most significant innovations in as historian Arther Ferrill explains, "the on a large scale and create a major naval their navy boasted up to 800 ships. They maneuverable, and resistant oared vessels ideal in the Mediterranean region, from Anatolia, as with their land army, the Achaemenids used satrapies rather than building their own fleet. was during Cambyses II's invasion of Egypt in defector by the name of Phanes, a former mercenary Among other things, he deployed around 40 ships Cyprian cities, which also had powerful navies. enabling him to supply his men by ship as they Levant. In the end, he defeated the Egyptian army Egypt another province of the Achaemenid Empire. of during Xerxes' invasion of Greece in 480 BC. substantial tributes levied on the nations along the Aegean Sea, enabling it to penetrate deep into problems. This was an enormous feat at the time, limited certain knowledge about the Achaemenid military giant. Herodotus was not entirely wrong when he wrote to draw the bow, and to speak the truth." The mass, their traditional archer-spearmen, their huge armies across great distances. This allowed Mediterranean for almost 200 years. For much greatest challenge for the Achaemenids. There, the off Persian attempts at conquest in the early the armies of Alexander the Great finally