&quot;The celebrated Manhattan cocktail was Hi, friends of cocktails and history. Today we're taking a look at how to the ones made nearly 140 years ago. We'll make three versions of this classic using recipes from 1884,1887 It was obviously pretty popular by the end and when exactly created the Manhattan cocktail. its creation, including the popular Manhattan All of that is highlighted by the cocktail in his excellent book, Imbibe. Besides the history of and the school of thought behind them. We'll make two of them. I highly recommend this book. Now, who's ready for some Manhattans? Before we get to today's cocktails, I'm thrilled for the Cocktail Time channel, That's because you'll need a couple Curiada can help you out with that, if you're You'll be able to find my collection on their site Click the link in the description to let them know This time I'll start with the modern version. Most of you know it, it's almost as simple The now standard 2-1-2 ratio of 2 oz whisky, 1 oz not only makes a delicious, but also And while rye is usually the preferred option nowadays, just called for whiskey, only a few specifically During prohibition Canadian whisky I think the Four Roses Single Barrel bourbon brings with enough spice from the high rye mashbill. whether you go with rye or bourbon. that fits your choice of whiskey. I'm using intense, well-rounded flavor that will pair bringing out flavors of caramel, orange and stone fruits. and complexity and bring the other 2 ingredients Add 2 dashes if you're using a classic bottle, or Then fill your mixing glass with ice and stir And all that chilling will do you no good so make sure you place it in the freezer or you fill That will keep your strained Manhattan For the final touch, the classic Manhattan garnish, As we usually do for these &quot;Old vs New&quot; episodes, I'll first make all three versions, then into making the 1884 Manhattan, as written the Bar Keeper's Handbook, using equal parts added as well, since it's based on the original I made gum syrup in the "syrups episode" last year. The addition of gum arabic gives If you don't want to make your own I just received a few including this demerara gum syrup. It has a nice I'll leave a link in the description if you want to Now, back to the cocktail. The recipe calls for a bar-glass to be filled then to add two or three dashes of Peruvian Bitters, Wondrich suggests trying it with orange bitters, of the Manhattan Club, so that's what I'm using. 1/2 a teaspoon, which is what I'm using, Here Rittenhouse 100-proof is the best way to stand up to the equal amount of vermouth is a bit confusing, but Wondrich notes that I guess we don't need the barspoon for this And for vermouth I'm using the one based on the Equal measure as whiskey. All we're left with is to strain it into a fancy cocktail no cherry or a lemon twist, so we'll serve I'll set that aside and make the final a Reverse Manhattan, from the 1887 He calls for 2 parts vermouth to 1 part whiskey, of curacao or maraschino. I chose over orange notes from the curacao. For whiskey and vermouth I'm again using and Carpano Antica Formula. 1 pony glass of whiskey, A pony glass is 30 ml, or 1 ounce, Lastly, 3 dashes of Boker's bitters. I'm using And since this isn't a dasher bottle Wondrich suggests stirring this cocktail, but to keep in line with the instructions from the and shake this Manhattan. This vermouth-heavy recipe is believed to have been to which a bit of spirit was added to give it and follow the recipe with the final touch - So, how do the old stack up against what you can Let's find out. I'll start with the modern and use that Full bodied whisky is the main player here, complemented by the sweet notes of the vermouth. 4 roses Smooth and just sweet enough with the aftertaste and the bitters. We'll see how others compare. Aroma of vanilla lets you know the whisky but not as sweet as I'd expect from the bring extra spice and tone down the sweetness. subtle spice. Interesting. is present on the aroma, with a bit of fruity it's the sweetest of the three and even just a small leg up in terms of stiffness of this recipe. But like always - don't just take my word Cheers, friends of cocktails, I'll see you I really prefer this one. - Mhm. What about yours? &quot;I've only got this one and its delightful!