Westin: This is I'm David Westin, bringing you this week, an industrial boom We went to Mexico and transportation costs the American supply chain and but we begin with a biography, not one about a person How do we classify something something that has never and something that might be beyond our understanding? This is a story about identity-- whether our identity and, if so, what we need -There is nothing special They are very wonderful things. They're incredibly-- and we're very wonderful as people we've evolved that way-- but there's nothing in other material. Westin: If anyone should know can do everything it would be Geoffrey Hinton. The computer scientist and University of Toronto is known as the Godfather of AI. After working he quit his job in 2023 about the risks of the this even as he continues to We sat down with him the Nobel Prize in Physics. -I was in a hotel in California. My phone went off and I thought about and then they said I won and I thought, &quot;Wait a minute. I'm not a physicist. Westin: But it was right, it will be Professor Hinton who will be receiving the award for their breakthrough work That generative AI is reshaping is beyond doubt. Bloomberg Intelligence expects to nearly double their CapEx with revenue from AI set to approach a trillion dollars by the end of the decade, but before we get to the future of AI, we turn to its past. We asked Geoffrey Hinton when this new creature first arrived. -I would say it was born with something that which was called It never really panned out, It was a model not very good images, -Well, there could be a debate but I would go all the way back and then John von Neumann, in the thirties, forties, Westin: Marty Chavez has spent his career and he traces its birth back to the very foundations -So it's been around people thinking about what is the nature and do human beings Is everything that's happening just a form of computation? People were asking almost a hundred years ago -Artificial intelligence are rapidly advancing fields Westin: Whatever most agree that and many decades to get here, that in just the last few years, A series of rapid breakthroughs what were far-out predictions -The big milestone which work by looking and then generating guesses about what they think That's why they're generative. Then that was followed by things that could generate images. Before that, there were things captions for images, and then they would generate that describe the image. Those were the early versions Now we're getting which can generate everything. They can generate -The huge milestone is one that we hit 2016, 2017. This was a milestone in the evolution It maybe didn't get but it certainly of everybody in the field, and this milestone came about because of the work I mentioned a few of them-- but another contributor was the Internet of vast amounts of labeled data. Westin: The breakthroughs worked to achieve have developed to the point that now it might be indistinguishable A study this year by cognitive showed that people more than 50% of the time, clearing the bar Humans themselves only pass but, as surprising as that is, How far along is AI again, if we're Is it a child? Is it an adolescent? -It's more like a toddler, maybe like a 3-year-old. -Let's imagine that awkward teenager phase of AI. What happens next? Westin: Whether AI is a toddler today the question is, how much can it learn, and, perhaps most important, For Geoffrey Hinton, Does that mean that generative will be able to do Is there anything that it -Yes. Most people there's something which is consciousness or subjective experience, That's probably all nonsense. The history of it is, predicting the next words were initially designed Now, there's a whole bunch in symbolic logic and that's they think it must be true-- who think people work and they're wrong. They never managed to produce as these big language models, these big language models &quot;They're just using and it's all just not No. Our best model of how the same model as how these They're just like us, than they are like so understanding is all about having the features interact, and having those We do it pretty much Westin: What about creativity? Can generative AI -As someone else might have You want people to be special. If you take standard tests AIs already do better Westin: What about You have worker bees, Then you have middle management, Could they replace CEOs? -OK, so there's a good which goes like this. Suppose you have a big company maybe he's the son but he has an executive almost certainly a woman. This executive assistant is asked to achieve things and she achieves them and would never thought of, so he becomes He gets what he wants. It all happens behind That's how it could be our own AI assistants and they were and they never wanted We could somehow achieve that, Westin: I had a boss once &quot;A danger is wishing Do we wish ourselves by hoping that generative AI Because it might be if we believed it can do -Yes. It is very threatening, and we should definitely into figuring out whether Westin: What effort What should we do? -OK, so for something everybody knows There's a very simple solution-- It's just we don't have We still give big subsidies to so we know what to do. We just won't do it. With AI, to keep AI safe of more intelligent things than we don't even know what to do. What we need to do now that there really is these things and they really are going but also how are we going We have some chance Westin: And that's where we turn How much good can it do, and what do we need to do a responsible citizen The life of artificial to the lives of people AI is already being used to make What could this mean and, therefore, economic growth, We posed those questions -It will be a wonderful thing Whether it be a wonderful thing is something else In a decent society, if you increase everybody is better off, if you increase the rich and the big companies and ordinary people are because they'll lose their jobs. Westin: AI's ability could also give new life whose productivity has stalled. U.S. productivity growth in the 21st century than it was but for all the talk of the economic change has been slow Goldman Sachs reports claim to use generative AI with tech and information When wider adoption does come, Hinton anticipates it will have on different parts -Many people say, you know, For this particular thing, What we're doing-- In the Industrial Revolution, we Now we're making human and that's very scary, so there's some areas An example would be health care. If I could get 10 hours a week I'm over 70-- so if you take someone and by having them work they're not going to become It's not that you're now only You're just going to get so in elastic areas, it's great. There's some areas like I have a niece who answers letters of complaint She used to take 25 minutes Now she can just scan It'll give an answer. She'll look at it, That's 5 minutes now. I suspect they'll need It may be they can just-- everybody can complain but I suspect they'll need so some jobs are elastic. Others aren't. The nonelastic ones, I think and what's going to happen is, created by the increase is not going to go to them. Westin: Hinton's prize the only Nobel awarded this year Two Google DeepMind scientists and a professor received Nobels in Chemistry to predict the structure and even to invent Marty Chavez of Sixth Street called AlphaFold, shows -As important a breakthrough if you think about the problems the problems in biology are Proteins are the basic but then those proteins into organelles of a cell which organize themselves which organize which go to organ systems, populations of human beings. Westin: Beyond biology generative AI could also have For one thing, it will require to drive it. Wells Fargo projects a 550% surge in AI power demand by 2026. Ireland is a poster child for the extent Its growing number of the country's electricity -The good news is, We've been through many periods where we have had but what this is going to mean As we electrify transportation, we now have this big, for energy to power Westin: Brian Deese of the National Economic Council and is now focused on studying on energy at MIT. -So in the near term, it creates that additional and are we bringing or dirtier sources online, which but the longer term, the bigger AI is a technology which in lots of aspects including our energy system, and where these two technological at the same time could actually help us find more efficient ways Westin: For all the good that do for the human race, perhaps none so apparent as its Anja Manuel's published a report -AI, by its nature, is dual-use because it is a multi-purpose It's like electricity It's going to power everything, positive use cases Westin: Anja, the biggest geopolitical risk-- has been the threat -Yes. Westin: There's recently was with an attempt to have if there were to be a human had to be and the countries there agreed What do we make of that? -We are really on day one and how it can be used There have been in the last couple of years-- a lot of them, thankfully, to think carefully about AI two, how much you would allow and this means, really, if you have a predator drone, directing it and deciding who In the Ukraine war, to drone-on-drone dogfights, drones doing their own and very soon, that's very dangerous is always going to be faster, the incentive for everyone is to use lethal because they'll always win, and then you'll have huge Lots of different people in different ways. The Korea conference I'm not surprised I would just give You used nuclear weapons. You know, when the U.S. we proposed some limited limits I think, as early as 1946. Then no real arms control until after you had and we got to the brink, and then we had but what was going on and what is going on now-- and bears emphasizing--is, there are some and American talking about these issues. There are other Track IIs that are more I'm part of one of them-- with the Chinese and the Chinese interlocutors are equally worried than the ones you and I -For a long time, there's going to be who can get the best lethal All of the defense departments like the U.S., China, all those defense departments are busy working They're not going to stop. If one of them stopped, What we need for that but to have a Geneva Convention. Now, you don't get things like for chemical weapons, until after something so I think, realistically, are going to happen and then maybe we'll so for chemical weapons, the conventions Putin isn't using them and they haven't been used much, so basically, I'm hoping they would work although I'm less confident, till after some very nasty Westin: Whether AI works a fundamental question can maintain control, Professor Hinton says we at least for long. -As soon as you make agents, things that can act to make an effective agent, you have to give it the ability so if you want to get to Europe, you have a subgoal and you don't have while you're solving That's why subgoals are helpful, and these big AI systems Now, the problem with that is, if you give something it will quickly realize that's almost always useful, of just getting more control that will help me achieve so these things will Even if they got they'll understand that, I'm going to be better at doing and so they will try That's the beginning Westin: But that suggests that, in fact, -We don't. Westin: to be able to get -We control it right now, but we don't have how are we going when it's smarter than us. Westin: How do we go about that? Let's take the United States, before we go globally. The United States, There are good people in -At present. Westin: some probably but are they up to the job what you're talking about and -I think with they are taking it seriously. It's just very difficult One clear thing that I believe they we need many of the smartest to be working and we need them Now, the government The big companies The government, I think, that the big companies spend on safety, of how will we stay in control, Right now, they spend, like, and nearly all their resources even better, bigger models. Westin: As you say, big by the government but they are often. I mean, you have big accounting to comply with various on accounting. If the government were to say, &quot;at least for the very largest &quot;mandate a percentage that will be devoted what's the right number? -I'm not sure that's It shouldn't be because that's very complicated, and they put all the revenue The thing to go for is a fraction The bottleneck here how many Nvidia chips or how many Google Tensor chips It should be a fraction That's an easier thing Westin: What fraction? -I think it would be perfectly Now, that's my starting point, Westin: From everything you is generative AI potentially an existential threat I think that's It really is Some people say and until fairly recently, I believed it was I always thought it would be but I thought it would be before we had really smart We had plenty of time Now I think it's quite likely that sometime these things will get and we really need to worry Westin: Coming up, a race for We go to Mexico to see is evolving in real time. That's next This is a story about potential, the potential that further between the United States for both countries-- but also a potential -The plastic Westin: Baldwin Britton based in Monterrey what some are calling -And everything comes and it gets melted As CEO of Plastiexports, in Northern Mexico and finished consumer products-- in his newest plant, -So this is that we're selling that basically came so these products and they're relocating Westin: What was once and other exporters is beginning to give way The share of U.S. imports coming from China, which hit 21% in 2018, is on the decline, down to under 14% last year. The share coming from Mexico, over 13% in 2018, is on the rise, topping 15% last year. [Applause] This closer integration between was jumpstarted by the North or NAFTA, back in 1994, covering Canada as well At that time, a young American was an advisor on the treaty. The promise of the agreement took him to Monterrey, Now he's the Mexico director of the recently merged Canadian Pacific forming what he calls His goal is to fuse together reaching from Upper Canada all the way to Southern Mexico. How fast is that need -We're investing and getting right now because if you look out there--BMW, Volvo, ArcelorMittal, Ternium-- Westin: Britton you'll find something he makes As a longtime supplier and European his new customers Chinese multinationals -30 years ago, we saw from Mexico to China, we have seen this shift Westin: Are Chinese companies -Yes. They are coming. They're setting up plants As a matter of fact, the State of Nuevo Leon, which is the industrial hub they're setting up, companies like us to be in Westin: Today industrial parks are sprouting up -There's a city in China 35 years ago, it was a village Today they have over 20 million. We see that happening to Mexico. -There is a philosophy among these companies to go abroad, go to these other countries, integrate, Westin: For decades, has been in the business and operate factories in Mexico, overcoming some of the friction -Our technology is Mexico, and we help companies that it takes to learn that Westin: Over your 38 years, some harmonization in regulations and rules, -They've gotten more strict, more rules and regulations. It's more complex today So we put an umbrella bring them into Westin: Annie Cheng is one of the companies using Tecmo in Saltillo, an hour and a half Leoch makes batteries cars, and golf carts. It was established in China and still manufactures there, but in 2011, Leoch relocated and just last year, it opened with plans to open two more. -For the export process, the first containers Westin: Russell has seen as companies begin to shift from China to Mexico, at first because and the delays in transportation and then when the nearshoring by the pandemic and tariffs as companies sought -So it started to be a movement where the boardrooms were saying, &quot;We should consider We have all of our eggs there. A lot of these public on their books until they can adjust by diversifying into India, into Mexico. Westin: We visited a facility that was close when production moved to China, but since the pandemic, moving production The Monterrey plant is now the place where they make, the Barbie Dreamhouse. They're all destined -Yeah. I know that. Westin: The raw material comes from the United States by rail straight -Of course, and we've got resin cars Westin: Is that what -Yeah, 90 tons of resin produced from the U.S. Gulf Coast Westin: Although some have the victor of the U.S. trade war Eaton says the United States from deeper integration He points to the auto sector under the United States- the USMCA, as a future that will help U.S., Canada, -You really can't talk or a Canadian-made car These autos are really You know, the cars crossed the 3 borders before you produce a car. Westin: Auto sector is really Give us a sense of where -The USMCA says that 70% or 75% of a car must meet content requirements under the USMCA, for a lot of companies For example, the steel company billions of dollars to process their own slab They're going towards that meets the USMCA standards, and so instead of purchasing they're going to start here on site, consuming iron ore and other products We're stronger together, When we manufacture in Mexico, it creates more synergies Westin: The nearshoring money isn't just about ways raw materials It also requires which we saw in dozens through the area. But if you look at this area, if you came here 20 years ago, -Well, nothing. Westin: Nothing. Alberto Chretin spent industrial real estate, some 6 bidders competed FIBRA Terrafina, a competition ultimately won when it paid $2.8 billion doubling the size Tell us about that bidding war. -Terrafina was a public company, so there were some unsolicited you know, from one company and another one, to make the decision Westin: Is commercial in Northern Mexico If you were starting out today, -Absolutely. Westin: Despite his continued Chretin acknowledges particularly when it comes of energy to power the plants. Addressing with respect to electricity requires a fair amount -Yes. Westin: Is there enough to be able to take care of that, or do you need private capital -Absolutely we need The administration The last administration whatsoever in generation so that has hindered the ability environment for new companies -Part of Mexico's challenges It's its own barriers so it's things like to affordable, consistent, Westin: Shannon O'Neil of the Council She sees the window but also some troublesome As you talk to investors how concerned are they you identified, like -These really are front and so the justice reform that judges are now elected, that those judges could be by the government Westin: What about security Because it wasn't that long ago some of the individual in a state of civil war -Security has worsened Homicide rates have remained but things like extortion, and other-- Westin: One of the things tends not to like -And it's building that happened It's continuing and we've seen it You know, Mexicans would be record highs and most of it has been frozen, foreign investment, so this is a time even as companies are looking Westin: And if that the USMCA itself, that successor agreement underpinning will be up for review in 2026, with new governments in both -I do think these pretty difficult negotiations. The really looming issue for the review of the USMCA and where does China fit into and where does China fit more broadly in North America. Westin: And that's to the future of nearshoring of the government those of Marcelo Ebrard, Mexico's newly minted If the United States all the potential benefits from it will take both governments and that will depend of the new Mexican president and what the upcoming could mean for those plans. -We need to accelerate Westin: Marcelo Ebrard is for President Sheinbaum, as mayor of Mexico City under President Andres Ebrard's appointment itself that President Sheinbaum and supports In the last administration, for the U.S.-Mexico-Canada You negotiated the USMCA on behalf of Mexico Has it been good for Mexico? -Extremely good. Doesn't make sense It was the best business That's the reality. Westin: was the one who demanded but on the campaign trail, American companies of what the agreement -As you know, they've announced that they're going to move a lot of their manufacturing I'm just notifying if you do that, we're putting that you want to sell Westin: Today, Mr. Trump for trade restrictions, in October about -To me, the most beautiful word and it's my favorite word. It needs Westin: Whoever is elected Minister Ebrard in the upcoming review If, in fact, he were how would you respond Because he certainly says he's going to go back -Well, we are extremely linked with the United States so if you put tariffs those tariffs are going for consumers so I think we have in order to reduce to have tariffs in our because there are exporting to United States. You don't solve anything doesn't make sense, because it's the same Westin: I know you have for example, How do you see When do they make sense? -Well, it's easy to abuse to put tariffs for any kind We are not especially friendly for several fields because it can be costly even for so we need to have Let's see what happens in order to have a conversation about the competition Let's do something because you are not going through tariffs, doesn't work. Westin: One thing and Vice President Harris is the need to confront China, and on this, Minister Ebrard with both candidates, of substituting Mexican-made -We need to improve the domestic component of that, so we are importing also Vietnam, and there Westin: If Mexico is to realize there are some hurdles starting with energy. -We need to expand in order to fulfill our goals in terms of renewables for the next, Westin: President Sheinbaum very aggressive goals -Very, very aggressively. Westin: I think it's 45% -Yes. That's true. Westin: Can that be achieved -No. The idea is to invite and to share the responsibility. Westin: There's There's also distribution. There are some questions about the ability How much needs to be invested -Ah, well, it's a huge amount in order to fulfill which is very, very important, Westin: What do you think that from you in terms of assurances in order to put -Clear rules, certainty about how the market is going to work Westin: Do you and, really, regard private markets as a way to get as opposed to something -No. We think that the only is to have a close relationship Westin: One of the things doing business in Mexico is, there is a lot so to speak, What can you do specifically -Well, we can cut back There are many, many, That's true. It doesn't make sense. You make the people waste time, and our main objective Westin: Does President to cut back on the regulations -Well, we have the majority in so we can use this all those regulations. Many, many of them When you review the regulations, you say, &quot;Well, this regulation Why so?&quot; Well, nobody so you have more and more so let's cut them and facilitate the life Westin: Minister Ebrard some of the difficulties after trying to secure a deal You've had a fair amount with the U.S. investment -Sure. Westin: including which has been put on hold. Where does that stand now? -Well, we are waiting maybe in December, I think. Westin: Are you hopeful? -Yeah, always, always. Westin: Do you think -I think so. I think so because Why not? Westin: What did you learn of negotiating that deal? -With Tesla? Westin: Yeah. -Well, we need to be very close We need to really put the information on time for the decisions that so we need some sort of trust We need to work more closely in order to be successful of investment in Mexico. Westin: Since the USMCA Washington has formed to protect certain industries industries like semiconductors, batteries, active as well as rare earth minerals. The upcoming USMCA review for the trio of countries to better compete globally a plan that may require not only new but also industrial policy. -We are in the same I mean, not always because of the competition so I think that we have in order to be successful Westin: From Mexico's how could it be improved? There's a review As you look forward what might Mexico want -Well, we need to upgrade It seems to be what about microchips, about medical equipment, about several things, to do it to be more competitive It's not only about free trade, but it's about in order to be more not only to have tariffs We need to have a plan, Let's have a common agenda energy, power industry, Why not? Westin: But in the end, that the real potential and its further integration will depend on its ability and he can see a world transforms the world -There is no other because we are not new resources from oil or-- No. It doesn't exist. Everything is going to depend to produce better and more. Westin: How far can you go? How much progress can you make through integration -I think that if we are agree, if we have a common vision the private capital this can be something near 25% of the imports so you can imagine You can change the country Westin: There's a race on Anja Manuel of the Aspen Security Forum, depends on how you are -Absolutely, The two biggest contenders now, are United States companies but it's a little bit What people tend to focus on is, on the most advanced chips, semiconductor slowed down the Chinese race to get the fastest, these things OpenAI, Anthropic, and the evidence is that it has Depending on who you ask, 18 months behind I think that's important, because if you look at how AI the plugin models, the Chinese are first rate, especially in all and people like me who are in so the Chinese are first rate That helps you do surveillance They are first rate That's a fancy word for drones that can be used everywhere, but it's not just Westin: Given that does national policy for national security reasons, require us to try Is it a zero-sum game? We can't allow them to really and not be at risk. -Yeah. You're absolutely right has been on slowing China down, and I do think that some Sometimes people call it between the United States I prefer to call it so you can win a race two ways. You can hobble your opponent or you can run faster yourself. I firmly believe so the United States are going to win this race and let me give you The export controls what the Biden administration on some limited outbound where we don't allow to invest in the most quantum computing, and it'll slow the Chinese but only so much The Chinese are very good The thing we really is running faster ourselves, and the Biden administration The CHIPS and Science Act was Unfortunately, the part that is the piece, the $173 billion, to advanced research That is critically important and innovating, and, anyone lobbying for it, Westin: Geopolitically, at United States which I think is a mistake. There are other nations What are the other nations -There are. Look. The most advanced as I'm sure you're speaking to they're really The UK has amazing researchers. France has a very and the United Arab Emirates, so there are a lot of countries The hard thing, as you know, and electricity these super sophisticated models is very hard for anyone but so it keeps down who are really in this race Westin: You mentioned the UAE. There are reports now that curtailing some the Nvidia chips being sent What should U.S. policy be like the Middle East, which, a lot of compute power now, an awful lot of capital -It is deploying The UAE and Saudi Arabia, they're really the classic The UAE works very closely including there was a big and MBZ, the head of the UAE, that they're going to do an MoU That's all good. The UAE says that some of the investments in the most advanced We think that's true, wants to both work with China and wants to work with us a lot, while helping I think, is the right policy. Westin: What about protecting and perhaps some interfering Are there the things to try to protect ourselves? -This is really difficult. I think misinformation and It exists now, so some of the deep fake I think, could be useful, but there's so much Deep fakes is one aspect of it, for you before, the ones to cause harms to me and the community for the Aspen Strategy Group is really the most important. Westin: Anja, you have written about the need for for safety purposes. What would that testing -It can take a number of forms. I would say it needs to have One, it must be mandatory. It has to be every model, only the very, very largest, and it should probably happen are deployed and it needs to be done in on the harms that you and I on physical harms, That may not be There are other harms bias, deep fakes, the things Those are important, too, that if you boil the ocean you won't get at those things David, how AI intersects chemical weapons, how it can jailbreak, what it can do to be autonomous, replicate itself Those are the narrow things that I think need before those products and do all the great good that they're also going to do Westin: Does the government, the United States have the capacity particularly computing capacity, or would it need to mandate have their computing capacity -They may. Governments may not Look. The first attempt at this has been They stood that up I've met a lot They're very impressive. They say that they're doing in weeks, not months or years, It's on a voluntary basis. Ultimately, yeah, for the companies to have to do under supervision so it can be so, for me, just how the testing It's what is being tested for and how independent Westin: So, Anja, tell us is doing in this area. -Yeah, so the Aspen of which I'm is a group of senior that comes together big, thorny problems and hopefully leave partisanship We just did a 4-day conference we're talking about-- and there is a super fascinating that has some of the leading on AI, thinking about some that you and I Westin: That does it for us I'm David Westin. We'll see you again next week