An Epic History TV / HistoryMarche collaboration, In December 1804, in the Cathedral of Notre-Dame Emperor of the French. Europe had never seen such a sudden and dramatic nobility, to military dictator of France, Revolution and war had cleared Napoleon's war would dominate his ten-year reign: a conflict millions dead, and a continent in turmoil. Eight months after Napoleon's coronation. The French Empire, and its Spanish ally were an army of 180,000 men along the Channel coast. But as long as the British Royal Navy ruled But nor could Britain challenge France on And so British Prime Minister William Pitt Napoleon, using diplomacy and gold. Britain would prove Napoleon's most steadfast mockery of the French emperor. Britain and France were old rivals, in Europe But now Pitt feared Napoleon's conquests Emperor had to be defeated, and Europe's was ever to be lasting peace. Pitt found willing allies in Europe: among of the French Revolution, and a dangerous Austria harboured the deepest grievances, steadily eroded by French victories. The final straw came in May 1805, when Napoleon Milan. Austria, Russia, Sweden, and Naples joined Coalition... And devised an ambitious plan for a series The main attack would be made by a combined Rhine into France. But Napoleon got word of their plans, and He was determined to strike first, before his army, now renamed 'La Grande Armee', His target was the Austrian army of General Bavaria, a French ally, and was now dangerously Napoleon ordered Marshal Murat, his famously attacks through the Black Forest - while enveloped Mack's army from the north. That summer, Napoleon's Grande Armee was motivated - its regiments at full strength. What's more, it had been newly reorganised imitated by virtually every army in the world. Each corps, commanded by a Marshal, was a its own infantry, cavalry, artillery and supporting transport. This meant each corps could march and fight, ... allowing Napoleon to break with the old and advance with his corps widely dispersed... This helped to disguise his real objective, army could advance along multiple roads, and from scattered villages, rather than relying When the enemy's main force was located, This is how Napoleon's army was able to his enemies. Mack didn't realise the danger he was in Napoleon's fast-moving corps crossed the Mack launched a series of poorly co-ordinated fighting, the Austrians couldn't break out Mack desperately hoped that Kutuzov's Russian the Russians were still 160 miles away. And so at Ulm, on 19th October, just 6 weeks Napoleon. The French took nearly 60,000 Austrian prisoners, blow against the Coalition. Russian General Mikhail Kutuzov was an experienced His army was exhausted after its 900-mile But hearing of the Austrian surrender at Ulm, Napoleon alone, he immediately ordered a retreat. Napoleon pursued. The Russians fought several sharp rearguard capital Vienna, which the French occupied Kutuzov slipped away to Olmutz, in today's as well as Emperor Alexander of Russia, and Napoleon was furious that Kutuzov had escaped. By now his army was also exhausted, and far He needed to force a decisive battle, quickly. Fortunately for him, the overconfident, 27-year-old overriding the concerns of his veteran commander, With the Allied army closing in, Napoleon a battlefield he'd carefully selected... Napoleon oversaw the dispositions of his army sleep beside a camp fire. Dawn would mark the first anniversary of his that would make or break his young empire. The morning of 2nd December 1805 was cold Two armies of near equal size faced each other But the Allies held the high ground of the Marshal Davout, was still marching to the Seeing Napoleon's thinly-stretched right from the Pratzen Heights, to steamroller the Napoleon's army. Little did they know, Napoleon was counting just such a move, whereupon he would launch cut the Allied army in half. His bold plan relied on his correct prediction Davout's III Corps on his right, and a perfectly The battle began around 7am, as Austrian troops with French troops defending the village of In the face of overwhelming odds, the French But gradually, they were forced back. But the Allies, instead of carrying out their The morning mist and the late arrival of orders another hour before the first three Allied Soon fierce fighting erupted around Sokolnitz Marshal Davout's corps, which had just force-marched the French right wing. Around 9am, his lead infantry brigade appeared Before being driven back in turn by Austrian Two more of Davout's brigades reinforced As the mist began to clear, Napoleon saw that off the Pratzen Heights, and he ordered Marshal To the alarm of Allied commanders, two French mist, were suddenly seen advancing straight General Kutuzov was forced to hurriedly organise Column. Two hours of bloody fighting followed. Musket fire was so rapid and furious that turned to the bayonet. By 11am, the French, with the advantage in and driven a deep wedge into the Allied position. To the north, a giant cavalry battle developed... while a Russian force from General Bagration's before it was halted by cannon fire from the A decisive charge by 6 regiments of French allowing Marshal Lannes' V corps to move Now Grand Duke Constantine, commanding the Allied reserve, in a desperate bid to reclaim A battalion of the French 4th Line Regiment losing its Eagle standard in bloody fighting. Napoleon, who'd moved up to the Heights, In this grim melee between the elite horsemen Napoleon had broken the Allied centre. Now to close the trap on the Allied left wing, Around 2pm, Napoleon ordered four divisions General Buxhowden, commanding the Allied Attacked from three sides, the only escape Many of his troops were forced to flee across French artillery opened fire, trying to smash About 200 men and dozens of horses drowned thousands of Napoleon's propaganda. The French Emperor had won a brilliant victory. His army had taken more than 10,000 prisoners, Thousands of dead and wounded of all sides for days. The Battle of the Three Emperors, as it became As Russian forces retreated back to Russia, a humiliating settlement with France, agreeing up more territory in exchange for peace. But meanwhile, news had reached Napoleon of off Cape Trafalgar. British admiral Lord Nelson, at the cost of complete, that it ensured British naval dominance the next 100 years. Britain, master of the sea; Napoleon, unbeatable The whale and the elephant, neither able to When William Pitt received news of Napoleon's have said, 'Roll up that map of Europe, A month later Pitt was dead, but his warning and upheaval... was to prove prophetic... In December 1805, at the Battle of Austerlitz, won a crushing victory against the joint forces Napoleon now dominated Europe - able to In February 1806, he sent an army led by Marshal dared to side with his enemies... and gave Another brother, Louis, was made King of Holland... His German allies, Bavaria and Wurtemberg, While Napoleon made himself 'Protector of alliance of German states, that would contribute In recognition of the new reality, Emperor Holy Roman Empire - founded by Charlemagne or purpose. Austria had been humiliated; France remained But in the summer of 1806, all eyes were on The Prussian king, Frederick William III, had been about to join the Coalition against at Austerlitz. He was heavily influenced by his wife, the France and Napoleon. She led the influential 'War Party' at Matters came to a head over Hanover - a king George III... been occupied by the French... for other territorial changes. Now the Prussians learned that Napoleon had in exchange for peace. Frederick's advisors now persuaded him that But Prussia then made a basic strategic blunder... its new allies in the Fourth Coalition... Their forces were too far away to help Prussia... Who would now face Napoleon's Grande Armee In 1806, the Prussian army had a fearsome reign of Frederick the Great. Napoleon, a student of history, regarded it But Prussia's army had been allowed to rest Its generals were old... its staff work hindered movements ponderous and predictable. Prussian soldiers, however, could be relied while Prussian cavalry was regarded as amongst In October 1806, Napoleon invaded Saxony with Advancing in three columns, the French crossed along roads carefully reconnoitred by scouts Napoleon intended to threaten Leipzig, and army, which he believed was near Gera. The Prussians were in fact further west, concentrating Saale. Its commander, the Duke of Brunswick, had advance... But wrongfooted by the speed of the French, defensive line. On 10th October, at Saalfeld, Marshal Lannes' commanded by Prince Louis-Frederick, the king's The Prussian force was routed, and Prince of the French 10th Hussars. Three days later Lannes made contact with news to Napoleon. The French Emperor, believing he'd found for his corps to concentrate for battle at Bernadotte's I Corps and Davout's III the Prussian flank from the north. But Napoleon was wrong - Lannes faced a by General Hohenlohe... The main Prussian army, 52,000 men under the straight into the path of Davout's III Corps. The Battle of Jena began at 6.30am on 14th Marshal Lannes' V Corps already had a toehold His first task was to drive back the Prussians, - arriving by the hour - to deploy. His infantry led the way, and fierce fighting and Lutzeroda. Meanwhile Augereau's VII Corps advanced on Lannes' left flank; while Soult's IV right. Napoleon joined Lannes in the centre of the support the attack on Vierzehnheiligen. The village was won, but then lost to a determined On the right, around 10am, Soult's infantry on its right flank near Rodigen. A decisive charge by Soult's light cavalry and capturing two enemy colours. As VI Corps began to arrive on the plateau, Ney ignored orders, and dived into the fighting cut off by a Prussian counterattack... and General Hohenlohe was expecting the arrival at any moment. Until then, he remained largely inactive, But he had run out of time. Napoleon had begun the day with just 25,000 By 12.30, a steady stream of reinforcements As the Emperor rode past the Imperial Guard, called out 'Forward!' Napoleon stopped and demanded to know who'd youth, who ought not to offer advice until But the moment had arrived. Although the Guard, to its frustration, remained forward in a general attack. The Prussian army began to give ground - at in a general rout. Murat's cavalry were launched in pursuit, Prussians. General Ruchel's two divisions finally They briefly held up V Corps' advance, but fire, and charged down by French cuirassiers. Meanwhile, 12 miles to the north near Auerstadt, to fall on the Prussian left wing at Jena. Instead, he encountered the Duke of Brunswick's up new positions. Davout's III Corps, 27,000 men and 48 guns, while Bernadotte's I Corps, which had orders Davout, nicknamed the Iron Marshal, showed He formed his first division into a defensive his infantry forming squares to repel a series Advance Guard. His other two infantry divisions arrived to face of repeated Prussian attacks. But Prussian movements were slow and poorly advantage to try and outflank Davout. At a crucial moment, the Duke of Brunswick fatal. King Frederick William himself took command. Several Prussian units remained uncommitted. But the king, convinced he faced the main Around 12.15 Marshal Davout counterattacked Davout had won a stunning victory against His corps suffered 25% casualties - one twice as many losses on the Prussians. When news reached Napoleon that Marshal Davout army, he reacted first with disbelief, then later awarding him the title 'Duke of Auerstadt'. Marshal Bernadotte, in contrast, was nearly Napoleon's army began a masterful pursuit to regather their strength. Two weeks after the twin battles of Jena-Auerstadt, III Corps, entered Berlin. The next day General Hohenlohe surrendered At Lubeck, General Blucher and 20,000 Prussians and forced to surrender... While 25,000 Prussians besieged at Magdeburg Prussia's army had been devastated by a In just 33 days, Prussia had lost 20,000 dead, It was a humiliation that proud Prussians nor forgive. Unlike Saxony, King Frederick William refused He continued to hold out in East Prussia, to rescue his kingdom. Despite another glorious victory for Napoleon yet... One week before Christmas, 1806, French Emperor of Warsaw, then part of Prussia. A year had passed since his great victory and two months since he'd hammered the Prussians But Russia still had powerful forces in the Russian First Army, commanded by General Bennigsen. Napoleon would not be master of Europe until to make peace. But that winter, Napoleon's first attempt down in thick Polish mud. The Russians withdrew to Bialystok. The French army, half-starved and frozen, ... while in Warsaw, Napoleon began a famous Walewska. In the late 18th century, the once mighty up by its neighbours - Russia, Austria, as 'partitions'... until in 1795, a third Now Polish patriots looked to Napoleon as against their occupiers would lead to the Marie Walewska became Napoleon's mistress Ordinary French soldiers, however, had little and they missed home. Desertion rates soared. There were even a hundred cases of suicide. Marshal Ney, commanding Sixth Corps, sent quarters. What they found were Russian and Prussian into a surprise winter attack by Bennigsen. Napoleon quickly laid a trap for the Russian and lure Bennigsen west, while he led the and rear. But the Russians captured a French courier Bernadotte. Bennigsen, now warned of the trap, ordered skirmishes against the pursuing French. But he refused to give up the city of Konigsberg at Eylau. The Battle of Eylau, fought over two days, was fought in freezing conditions, with neither Marshal Augereau's Seventh Corps, advancing and was cut to pieces by Russian cannon fire. Five French eagles were lost. Napoleon's army was only saved by a devastating, led by the fearless Marshal Murat, and remembered At Eylau, for the first time as Emperor, Napoleon He and the Russians covered up the true scale to have lost a third of their armies in the After the horrors of Eylau, both armies sought Meanwhile, the newly-formed French Tenth Corps by 13,000 Prussians under General Kalkreuth. The city came under heavy French bombardment, After 8 weeks, with no prospect of reinforcement, May. Napoleon's northern, sea flank was now secure The French emperor now commanded an army 190,000 troops. But it was Bennigsen who moved first, launching on 5th June. Ney conducted a brilliant fighting withdrawal, Bennigsen, having lost the element of surprise, more. Four days later at Heilsberg, the French lost defences. But the Russians continued their retreat the Napoleon thought Bennigsen would head north keeping to the east bank of the Alle River. So when Napoleon's army marched north, it right flank, that next encountered the Russian In the late afternoon of the 13th June, Russian that they'd found a single French corps Bennigsen decided he had time to cross the before the rest of the French army could arrive crossing the river. Marshal Lannes, commanding 16,000 men and to Napoleon that he was under attack from Then he fought a skilful delaying action, large screen of skirmishers, while gradually Lannes was still holding off the Russians That night, Russian engineers built three movement of troops over the river. But Bennigsen was taking a huge risk. If this turned into a major battle, his army and the steep banks of the Mill Stream dividing Bennigsen had also badly underestimated the would react. The first French reinforcements arrived that The Emperor himself wasn't far behind. By dawn on the 14th June, about 40,000 Russians Bennigsen ordered an attack on the village flank. But French cavalry reinforcements led by General In more than an hour of charge, and counter-charge, back. Marshal Mortier's Eighth Corps now arrived In Sortlack Wood, General Oudinot's elite Prince Bagration's Left Wing... but was pushed back. Around noon, on a sweltering day, Napoleon He was soon followed by First Corps, commanded wounded Marshal Bernadotte, as well as Ney's Marshal Bessieres. The date, 14th June, held special significance of his great victory over the Austrians at The battle then entered a lull, as Napoleon dangerous position, and issued orders for Bennigsen, meanwhile, who was tormented by now faced the full might of Napoleon's army, But before Bennigsen's retreat could get French guns signalled the start of Napoleon's It was led by Ney's Sixth Corps on the right from Sortlack Wood. But as Ney's troops left the cover of the cannon across the river. As the French attack faltered, Prince Bagration attack. Ney's corps retreated. But now General Victor's First Corps came Its artillery commander, General Senarmont, at point blank range with case shot. Hundreds of Russians were mown down within Under this onslaught, Bagration's men began Around 7pm the Russian Imperial Guard launched French advance on Friedland. But they were outnumbered, and outgunned. As exploding shells began to start fires in joined the attack. With its only escape route under threat, the towards the river. But Friedland's houses and bridges were The town became a deadly trap for the Russians. Many were drowned trying to cross the river, North of Friedland, some units were able to But there was no disguising the Russians' The Battle of Friedland was one of the most At the cost of 10,000 casualties, he had inflicted 20,000 men killed, wounded, or taken prisoner The Prussians abandoned Konigsberg the next Corps, while Bennigsen's shattered army Tsar Alexander's advisors implored him to He accepted their advice, and a ceasefire Alexander and Napoleon met for the first time near Tilsit, and developed an immediate rapport. Tilsit proved to be one of history's great each other for days, with banquets, parades into the night. A friendship of sorts developed... whilst of Prussia, was left out in the cold. And it was Prussia who would lose most in One third of Prussian territory was taken to be ruled by Napoleon's 22 year-old brother And the Duchy of Warsaw, to be ruled by the would prove a stepping stone on the road to Polish troops were recruited into the Grande of Napoleon's elite Imperial Guard. Russia only had to give up the Ionian Islands, that left the French emperor master of Europe. Alexander even agreed to join the 'Continental of Great Britain, which banned British ships The System had been established the previous Napoleon hoped that by cutting off British chaos and political upheaval in Britain - allowing There was just one problem - the Continental Not only was it impossible to enforce, and damaged French trade just as much as British The decisive weapon in this economic war would that summer, ensured its continued naval dominance the neutral Danish fleet at Copenhagen - capturing Napoleon's hands. Royal Navy squadrons blockaded all major French while ensuring British merchants could continue The navy even seized the tiny Danish island goods into Europe. But most disastrously for Napoleon, the Continental proved ruinous for his empire... The first would be fought in the Iberian Peninsula, ally Portugal to join the Continental System. In November 1807, French troops, supported The Portuguese royal family fled to their without a fight. It looked as though Napoleon had won yet another But the Peninsular War was just beginning... In the autumn of 1807, French emperor Napoleon He had humbled Austria... and Prussia... and Of the major powers, only Britain still defied navy. Napoleon had ordered all territory controlled Britain - the so-called 'Continental System', economy and force its government to make peace. But neutral Portugal had continued to trade sent an army under General Junot to occupy The invasion was supported by France's ally, rulers in contempt: The Bourbon royal family was decadent and The king and crown prince loathed each other, minister Manuel Godoy, the Queen's lover. Spain, Napoleon concluded, was backwards, and devised a plan to seize control of the In the spring of 1808, under the pretext of troops took up strategic positions around The Spanish people saw the French military - and held chief minister Manuel Godoy responsible. There were riots at the palace of Aranjuez; Napoleon invited the Spanish royal family, of Bayonne, and sent Marshal Murat and 50,000 But on 2nd May 1808, the people of Madrid It became known as the Dos de Mayo Uprising, This scene shows Mamelukes of Napoleon's Madrid. 100 soldiers were killed. The French responded ruthlessly, shooting more than a hundred by firing squad. Meanwhile in Bayonne, Napoleon forced King King of Spain on his own brother, Joseph. That summer, as Napoleon forced a new, modernising entered Madrid as its new king - the Spanish The French weren't just arrogant foreigners were godless atheists who, during the French Church. Napoleon, priests warned the peasants, was Revolts erupted across the country. The Spanish army was joined by militias and killed collaborators. French soldiers carried out savage reprisals. No mercy was shown. The countless atrocities horrified Francisco War' series. At first it seemed the French would easily Girona, Valencia and Zaragosa were besieged of Galicia was routed by Marshal Bessieres But eight days later, as General Dupont and slowed down by wagons piled heigh with loot, Castanos's Army of Andalusia, and forced The Spanish took 18,000 French prisoners - about Bailen was a humiliation for France - her France's enemies across Europe were delighted... Napoleon was incandescent with fury. The situation went from bad to worse. The Portuguese joined the revolt, while fierce the sieges of Valencia, Girona and Zaragoza. Spain's new king, Joseph Bonaparte, was The British assisted the revolt - which - by shipping weapons to Spain using the Royal On 1st August, a small British army commanded to aid their revolt. On 17th August, he beat a small French force main army at the Battle of Vimeiro. But Wellesley's newly-arrived superior, Junot and his army to France, with all their In Britain, the generous terms were seen as exonerated Wellesley - the future Duke of again. Napoleon decided the only way to sort out himself. He assembled 130,000 reinforcements, including led Most Spanish troops were inexperienced, were had no coherent strategy. They were no match for the Grande Armee, heavy defeats on the Spanish at Burgos and At Tudela, Marshal Lannes' Third Corps avenged of General Castanos, sending it fleeing in Napoleon pushed on rapidly. North of Madrid, 8,000 Spanish held the mountain Napoleon, impatient to break through to the Horse of the Guard. In an attack of almost suicidal bravery, they the French to take the pass. Four days later, after Napoleon threatened gates to his army. Unaware of the disaster engulfing Spanish by Sir John Moore, had just arrived in Salamanca another smaller force en route from Coruna. The British army was inexperienced, but in organised, and led. As news reached Moore of the Spanish collapse, by attacking Marshal Soult's isolated Second to Burgos, and France. At Sahagun, on 21st December, the British frost, and made a dawn attack on a French But as Moore prepared a full-scale attack Napoleon was advancing rapidly towards him, While two French corps under Marshal Lannes Napoleon saw a chance to get to grips with Intending to trap Moore between his own forces his troops over the icy Guadarrama Pass in Moore, facing odds of more than two to one, march 250 miles to the coast where his army For both sides, the race to the sea was an bitter cold. Many fell by the wayside, as British discipline Except among the rearguard, which fought several, at bay. Soldiers of Britain's elite 95th Rifles This specialised light infantry regiment wore were one of the few units on any side armed Unlike the standard smoothbore musket, rifles the bullet as it was fired, making them slower In one legendary incident during Moore's picked out and shot dead a French general Thanks to the skill of the rearguard, and kept one step ahead of the French. On New Year's Eve, Napoleon received grave Austria mobilising once more for war. The Emperor immediately left for France, taking Marshal Soult and Second Corps with finishing The pursuit continued, but on 11th January For Sir John Moore's exhausted army the prospect of rescue. But few ships were there to meet them on the Fortunately, the British had been able to Soult's advance... and three days later, allowing Moore to begin embarking his cavalry But the very next day, Soult's army appeared on the heights of Penasquedo, where he sited Half of Moore's army deployed in a defensive divisions held back to protect his right flank. Both armies were roughly 16,000 strong. The French had 4 regiments of dragoons, while But the broken terrain of walls, hedges and to cavalry. Soult's plan was to attack the British right sea. Around 2pm the French artillery opened fire. Then Mermet's infantry division advanced, left. Moore had been unsure if Soult would attack, begin embarkation. Now he hurriedly cancelled that order, ordering his open flank, and Fraser's division to The French advanced through hedges and over on both sides. Then the British counterattacked. The 42nd Highlanders and 50th Foot charged French out. But in confused fighting... they, in turn, Sir John Moore was close to the front line, and men. But as he ordered up the Guards brigade to by a cannonball. He remained conscious, but it was obvious to the city. Soult sent forward Merle's division to support Scottish general Sir John Hope had taken over Moore, and he ordered forward two battalions Now Paget's division, led by skirmishers British right flank. The terrain was so bad for horses that French but were slowly pushed back by the British. Paget's advance threatened the flank of forced to withdraw... while an attack on the right by Delaborde's of Piedralonga, but got bogged down in heavy Around 6pm, dusk fell, and firing died out News that the British line had held reached 8pm. That night, the British lit campfires and Coruna, to begin embarkation. The next morning the French found the enemy But they were slow to take advantage. It wasn't until noon that they were able position overlooking the bay of Coruna. The British had almost completed their evacuation In a hurried departure, a few British transports overall losses were light. A small Spanish garrison held Coruna, waiting before surrendering. Whether Moore's retreat to Coruna was a still debated. And did he abandon Spain in its hour of need, time for others? Either way, Britain's only army had been day... While Napoleon now faced the prospect of a conflict with Austria... a war on two fronts before. Napoleon had blundered in Spain. But it was years before the scale of his mistake Then, he would say: "I embarked pretty badly on this affair, The immorality showed too obviously, the injustice very ugly." In 1809 France, under Napoleon Bonaparte, But the French Emperor's invasion of Spain to deliver the easy victory he'd expected. And with many of Napoleon's best troops An old enemy prepared to challenge France Austria had been preparing for war with France in 1805. Now, with Napoleon busy in Spain, and a British attack in northern Europe, it looked like This time, Austria's armies would be led brother. At 37, he was two years younger than Napoleon, high command. And he was learning from past defeats. He'd begun to reform the Austrian army along and introducing new infantry tactics. Napoleon, warned by his spies that Austria back to Paris, arriving on 24th January 1809. The French army in Germany, commanded by Marshal So Napoleon summoned units from Spain, called German allies in the Confederation of the La Grande Armee was no longer the finely-honed head, it was still a formidable force. Archduke Charles ordered diversionary attacks his main attack against France's ally, Bavaria, It came a week earlier than Napoleon had expected, Charles was relying on a rapid advance, but rain and a slow-moving baggage train slowed Marshal Berthier was a brilliant chief-of-staff His forces were too widely dispersed, and isolated at Regensburg. Charles ordered his corps to converge and But on 17th April Napoleon arrived at Donauworth He immediately ordered Davout to withdraw It was too late for him to escape without Davout's Third Corps was one of the best battle across wooded hills, the heroes of the heroism of General-Major Liechtenstein, Third Corps escaped the encirclement. The Battle of Teugn-Hausen was the start of First, he used Marshal Lefebvre's Bavarian Marshal Lannes, to drive a wedge into the Then he pursued its left wing towards Landshut, army... French troops and their German allies stormed But Napoleon realised that Archduke Charles he'd left Marshal Davout to face the main Sending Marshal Bessieres in pursuit of the falling on the Austrian Fourth Korps at Eggmuhl. The French, and their German allies, won their But Charles's main force was still intact retreat across the Danube. The French pursued, storming the walled city Napoleon put Marshal Lannes in charge of the When the attack faltered, Lannes threatened his men, suitably chastised, took the city. During the siege, Napoleon was hit in the alarm. But it proved to be a superficial wound. Stubborn Austrian resistance had allowed Archduke Danube. Napoleon had cut the Austrian army in half, towards Vienna. Napoleon led his forces in pursuit, detaching popular revolt in Tyrol... and Third Corps his line of communications. Charles chose not to defend the capital - which Instead Charles and the Austrian army lay Napoleon was now down to 80,000 men, facing Charles's army had fought bravely and well But Napoleon still had a low opinion of Austrian On the night of 20th May, French engineers between the river islands of the Danube... By noon the next day, Napoleon had most of the river - about 24,000 men and 40 guns Napoleon expected the Austrians to retreat But reports soon arrived that the entire Austrian columns - 90,000 men, and 300 cannon. The situation got even worse. The Austrians began to float heavy barges the flimsy French bridge. Each time Napoleon's only supply route was delays to the arrival of reinforcements and The battle began around 2.45pm, as infantry The village was soon under attack from three General Molitor's French garrison clung streets, and suffering 50% casualties. To support the defenders of Aspern, Napoleon Column... but they could not break through 'battalion mass' formation. At 6pm Archduke Charles ordered General Bellegarde's Charles himself rode among the front ranks In ferocious fighting, the Austrians took Napoleon immediately sent in newly-arrived About the same time, the Austrian Fourth Column where Marshal Lannes had taken charge of defences, the Danube. The first Austrian assault was repulsed. The veteran French cavalry commander, General but was hit by grapeshot, and died of his Around 9pm the Austrian Fifth Column finally against Essling, which was thrown back by As night fell, firing died out across the could among the dead and the wounded. Overnight, Second Corps and the Imperial Guard army, which now numbered 71,000 and 150 guns. But then the bridge broke again, leaving Davout's Nevertheless, Napoleon decided to attack, But first Aspern would have to be retaken. Heavy fighting broke out in the village before By 7am, it was back in French hands. At Essling, fresh Austrian attacks were fought of the Young Guard. With both flanks secure, Napoleon launched Second Corps. Austrian guns poured fire into the advancing General Saint-Hilaire, leading the attack, blown off... a wound that proved fatal. Archduke Charles sent his Grenadier Reserve The French infantry, under torrential fire, At this critical moment, the French bridge the vital flow of reinforcements and ammunition By 2pm, the French had been driven out of Heavy fighting continued in Essling, which retaken by the Young Guard. Napoleon knew his army could do no more. At 4pm, he ordered his exhausted cavalry to then gave the order to retreat. Archduke Charles, whose own army had suffered content to watch the French withdraw to the In the final moments of the battle, Marshal and closest friends, was hit by a cannonball He died of his wounds a week later. It was a deep blow to the Emperor. The two-day Battle of Aspern-Essling was Napoleon's and hasty planning. Both sides suffered heavy losses, and Napoleon of the exhaustion of the Austrian army. The French Emperor had learned new respect Under Archduke Charles they had fought bravely, leadership. Within days of his defeat, Napoleon had summoned and begun planning his revenge... In May 1809, the Austrians had defeated Napoleon's His enemies took heart. After years of French military dominance, Three weeks later, Pope Pius the Seventh excommunicated propaganda coup for his enemies... But in the wake of its victory, Austria hesitated... the war... While Napoleon responded with a hurricane He summoned reinforcements to join him near The Army of Italy, under his stepson Eugene Marmont, who'd together driven Archduke ...as well as Marshal Bernadotte's Saxon Napoleon's army grew from 90,000 to a massive army of 128,000 and 414 guns. Six weeks after his first attempt had ended the river once more. This time his engineers had built solid bridges no repeat of the disasters of Aspern. 'For the French army,' Napoleon declared, The stage was set for the largest battle yet On the evening of 4th July, in heavy rain, of Lobau - not towards the devastated villages which was soon ablaze from French shells. Archduke Charles had left only a small advance By dawn General Massena's Fourth Corps those troops back, winning space for the French At 1pm, Napoleon was ready to begin his advance the main Austrian position: an escarpment known as the Wagram, 100 metres As General Lasalle's light cavalry and Massena's Oudinot's Second Corps and Davout's Third Bernadotte's Saxon corps and Eugene's At 6pm, unsure of the enemy's strength, the Wagram plateau. But his troops met determined Austrian resistance By dusk the Saxon Ninth Corps had pushed into The Saxon infantry wore white uniforms, like were mistaken for the enemy and fired on by The Saxons panicked, and fled with heavy losses. Napoleon's attempt at a quick breakthrough That night both armies slept in the open, moves. On the second day, Napoleon planned for Davout's the Austrian flank, while his other corps But to the Emperor's fury, he learned that had withdrawn his battered Saxons from Aderklaa... Aderklaa was a crucial strongpoint in the Napoleon gave orders for its immediate recapture, heavy losses. The Austrians had their own problems. Archduke Charles, knowing he faced a superior lay in an all-out, dawn attack. He was relying on his brother Archduke John time to support the attack on the left. But by dawn there was still no sign of him. What's more, as Fourth Korps began its assault had received its orders late, was still getting right wing. Charles had to tell Fourth Korps to abort were ready. With the Austrians paralysed by delays, at A fierce infantry battle erupted in the village dragoons and hussars fought a giant, whirling the other. Davout's corps took the village, though to a strong new position on the Wagram escarpment. Meanwhile a serious threat had developed to Klenau's Sixth Korps had driven back the as far as Essling - dangerously close to Napoleon's Napoleon urgently needed to reinforce his But he was also determined to hold back his So he ordered Massena's Fourth Corps to the left. A huge redeployment like this, right in front So Marshal Bessieres was ordered to lead centre. Casualties were high. Even Marshal Bessieres had his horse killed But the enemy was kept busy, while Fourth Klenau's corps to fall back. Napoleon now assembled a grand battery of battlefield. This was one of Napoleon's trademark tactics the enemy line, and pave the way for a decisive The Grand Battery fired an estimated 15,000 Around 1pm, Napoleon ordered a general attack. As Davout continued to batter at the enemy Fourth Corps would advance on the left... Second Corps on the right... While in the centre, General Macdonald would formed up in a giant three-sided square, to But despite the terrible French cannonade, Reserve met the French advance with torrential Macdonald's giant square was cut to pieces, and the attack stalled. But the Austrian army, battered by relentless Every part of the line was under pressure Archduke Charles, determined above all to The Austrian withdrawal was disciplined and Napoleon had his victory. But his army was also so shattered by fatigue any effective pursuit. The Battle of Wagram was a brutal slugging-match, in European history. French victory came at unprecedented cost: An estimated 37,500 casualties, against 41,500 Four days later, French troops caught up with As the fighting escalated, Charles knew he and asked for a ceasefire. But he had not consulted his older brother the news. Not least because long-awaited British support Three weeks after the Battle of Znaim, the assembled - 35 ships of the line and 39,000 the Scheldt Estuary. Its aim was to destroy French shipping and But following the successful bombardment and let the initiative slip from their grasp. Their force was bottled up by French troops by fever and dysentery. About 4,000 died. Many more became permanent invalids. The survivors were evacuated back to England Emperor Francis, informed of the British debacle, couldn't fight on, made peace with Napoleon. In October, Austria signed the Treaty of Schonbrunn, Bavaria, Saxony, the Duchy of Warsaw and Russia. In total, the Austrian Empire was stripped to pay an indemnity, limit its army to 150,000 which meant ending all trade with British Archduke Charles, meanwhile - one of Napoleon's so bitterly with his brother, Emperor Francis, Napoleon had won another crushing victory. But there were worrying signs for the French His enemies were learning, while he would to fill the gaps left by veterans killed or Few could have guessed in 1809, but Napoleon If you'd like to learn more about Napoleon's Publishing has nearly 200 titles on the Napoleonic covering everything from the history of elite Visit their website to find out more. Thanks to HistoryMarche for creating the battle Visit his own YouTube channel for more great And huge thanks to all our Patreon supporters Find out how you too can appear in the credits, at the Epic History TV Patreon page.