In today's chess video, we are going to learn We start with the moves E4, e5 and then white At first glance, this looks like a very risky to some nasty checks like this, but there From here, there are 2 main lines. If black takes this pawn, that's the kings then it's the King's Gambit declined variation. In this video, we will focus on the accepted and strategies for white and also how black Now when black takes, the immediate threat here. Some good options are bishop e2 or bishop also vacating this f1 square for the king In fact, bishop c4 was played by the great This is also called the Bishop's Gambit. But anyways, the best Move I feel is knight this position. Now let's try and understand the objective Black is a pawn up and he always has a slight From White's perspective, it's all about dominating Look, white has forced this pawn away from gain center control and also try to regain Moves like bishop c4, knight e5 and castling Kingside. This is actually a very complex opening and is not played that often. I generally recommend playing this opening higher than you. Such a player would most likely be well versed beat you at those. So you might need to try something different. And this might be your surprise weapon especially all the main ideas and strategies behind it. You can use it to complicate the game &amp; create your opponent off guard. Just studying it a little or even watching in your chess tournaments. Talking about tournaments, we are having our Saturday for our Members. If you haven't yet Joined, then please make a Chess Talk Member right now by clicking You'll find all the details over there. Okay, now let's look at the 2 most popular line. In the first variation, we will see how white variation, I will show you how black can defend Whatever lines I am going to show you are can been played by both sides. At the end, I will summarize all the important so keep watching till the end. Alright, now from here, the most common move This is the main line. Then we play h4 attacking this pawn. G4 attacks the knight. Knight e5 saves it. Now if Black tries d6, then we can simply Therefore, in this position, the best Move central pawn. Now if you want to regain your pawn immediately, If knight takes, then you take back with your And if black takes on E4, we play d3. Knight has to move and then we can take on Going back, the best Move in this position Black is forced to block with d5. E takes on d5. Then comes bishop d6 stopping white from advancing Then we go for d4 defending the knight and Black castles, white takes and now if you the board. White is a pawn up and all these white pieces Once we push g3, this pawn will soon fall. And after white castles, even this rook can All in all, this should be a good game for These are just some of the common lines, but let me just summarize what you need to do Basically, it's important to develop your Eventually, you should push d4 and exploit You should be able to regain your pawn like This e file could be used by your queen to attacks so keep an eye on that. Ultimately, you will need to open up black's prevent him from castling. This f7 square is always going to be a good to expose Black's king. In order to do this, you might have to sacrifice to do that. As I mentioned, in the king's gambit, it's to give emphasis on the positioning of your Alright, Now let's look at how black can counter But before that, I request you to show your up button right now. Okay, so a very good way to deal with this with the move d6. This is probably the best defense for black. What it does is that not only opens up this the center and prevents white from playing After this, you will see two main moves - d4 Let's look at d4 first. After d4, we can go for g5 defending this Then comes h4 as usual attacking the defender. Again G4, attacking the knight. This time white cannot play knight e5 because Also, he cannot move to g5 because f6 or h6 Therefore, the best Move is to actually go Then queen f6 is the best Move that I recommend It defends this f4 pawn and also attacks the Then knight c3 planning to play knight d5. We play knight e7 preventing it. Knight g to e2 putting pressure on f4. Bishop h6 defending it. Queen d2 adding another attacker. Bishop d7, then comes g3 forcing this pawn Pushing forward isn't a good idea because square and it becomes difficult for us to Therefore, in this position, we simply play move now. G takes on f4 and finally we castle on the If you look at this position, the material White's king is still in the center. We have all these attacking options on the you. Going back, now let's look at what happens position. We start with h6 preparing for g5. Then comes d4 attacking the f pawn. G5 defends it. White can castle kingside. Then bishop g7 putting pressure on the center, Then g3 trying to open the f file for the From here, we have this interesting move, If he moves the rook, then we can tear apart our queen into the game so that isn't looking In fact, in this position, it's actually best And after all this, if you see the position, safe and there are a lot of attacking options Database shows that from this position, more only 30% of the games by white. Just to summarize and give you an overall mind a few things. You need to smartly hold onto this f4 pawn. You should avoid making any unnecessary pawn in good shape for as long as possible. Your plan should be to develop all your pieces center with your knights and bishops. As soon as you get an opportunity, castle and then you can go after the white king with Okay, so Here's a Chess puzzle for you all. It is White's turn and you need to find the Do share your answers in the comments section If you liked this video, you should watch Danish Gambit. And Don't forget to Subscribe to our channel Thanks for watching and See you in the next