Pretty bad-a--. If the dog can't get your leg or arm, it's going to go for wherever Hi, I'm Terry Adams, and this is Tiny, a 9-year-old Belgian Malinois. She is a trained dual-purpose dog, trained in tracking, and apprehension. I am an eight-year Army dog handler with also 10 years of civilian handling and instructing experience. Today, we'll be looking at military dogs in movies and TV and Look left. Cerberus, left. Really, honestly, it's pretty spot-on. The only thing that would be different would be, in my experience, is directing the dog with a laser versus letting them free-sniff. You know, the dog being and hop into the window and then search from All that's realistic. He's got something. That is totally realistic. If the dog is sent into a building and sees a threat, then the job of the dog is to apprehend. The dog does target the arm. We do train them to apprehend The things that we use are In this scene, the subject is actually That's how he's taking that bite without actually being bitten. Check here. I found them. Two bodies. When it comes to tracking especially in the conditions The canopy holds a lot of odor, which makes it even When it comes to my military experience, we have tracked more or but we track more explosives. From the source of the explosive, to maybe where someone is So yes, you can use clothing to search for a familiar It doesn't have to be a living person. It can also be a dead person as well. I definitely give it a 10 out of 10. Some of the things, if you notice that the dogs are you see that there's some stomach shots. So you know, if the dog then they're going to go You see the two Belgian The Belgian Malinois is an awesome dog. Before, the shepherd was the go-to dog. Now the Belgian Malinois based off of speed, stamina, size. They're not as big as a shepherd would be. Pretty bad-a--. But this is not as common to teach. But once again, if the dog it's going to go for wherever Scaling the wall to bite the In the military, it wouldn't be so realistic, only because if we had a threat up high, we would just neutralize that threat. But if we wanted to get a dog up high, that is a possibility. You see a lot of cross fire from a lot of the good The dogs probably wouldn't have last very long in the real world. Probably within after the they would've been shot by someone. Realistically, we wouldn't put our dogs freely in danger of a lot of that. They'll be sent to a specific target and then brought back to us to make sure that we're These dogs are really Would've been also great to based off of the new technology I'm going to give that a 7 out of 10. There's a lot of shooting going on, and normally a handler in harm's way of that many guns. Oh, and Dennis, can you clear out some Confuses the dog's nose. They're searching a building. They have everyone leave. Normally, we would not but we would isolate So in that way, we know no one's as we search the building. Or try to figure out a as we're doing it. This is a DEA dog. And they're looking for meth narcotic. The handling from the handler He did a lot of touching stuff. In the real world, especially a little more than military, it's a big liability to sit there and touch the objects that you're wanting the dog to search, because you can cause the dog You want to minimize, as much as possible, your manipulation of the dog. So when conducting a a building search, we would let the dog free-search. Then we'll come back and detail. When we detail, we would but point towards where How long have we got They're gone. We're good. So here we see the dog doesn't indicate on possible narcotics. Just means that the dog wasn't Now with the narcotics the dogs can catch the odor, but it would have to be which are areas where odor collects, and the dog can then track it to source. We'll give that handler a 3 out of 10 for his handling skills. Hey, kid, stop. The dog is barking. That can be a sign of the dog We like a little bit calmer alerts when it comes to explosives. Just because of how volatile they are. And with something like that, it's either a mine or a IED, right? Improvised explosive. We don't want to do that explosive to go off. Most times, our indicators are going to be a down or a sit instead of a barking, just because we want that calm behavior. And based off of the placement of the odor is how they indicate. So if it's something they will perform down. If it was something that was or high, placed into a wall, they're doing a sit. Seek, Dex, seek. Come here. Seek. Attaboy. Seek. You see that the handler It is a common word. Seek, zoek, find it. These are all common words that are used throughout to go and search for an odor. What is that? You see that there's a Labrador. This is a common choice of breed for an explosive detection dog. The reason why they make really good explosive detection dogs are one, nice in nature, very high-driven, very good at hunting odors, whether if that's an explosive, narcotics, or even a bird. The handling of the dog definitely. The dog would've been a little further out from the handler. Most of these dogs are where there were old minefields, or just routes that are known for insurgents to place IEDs. We would want the dog so that we can save the handler, just in case the dog trips the explosive. All right, good boy, good boy. No booms. No booms, good dog. Words of encouragement In these situations, you're not able to reward the or a ball, some sort of toy. When we train these dogs, we teach these dogs that equal this big reward, this toy. And so that's why they to go out and find these explosives. In the scene, you see that the dog is a little bit more vocal. It's not a deal-breaker. Biggest thing is we are working off a motivation of a toy, which is what causes the frustration, and that's where you get those barks from. I would give it a 8 out of 10. Reason for not having a 10 out of 10 is based off of the handling of the dog. Found something. Good boy. The way she's utilizing We didn't necessarily use flags. We use chem lights though. If we did do a flag, it was a makeshift flag out of rocks and reflective tape, where we would just drop it And we used the chem light to mark how far from said IED. Clear. Leavey, check the vehicle. I've actually been in a without the explosion. My dog passed an IED We were traveling north to south, and the wind current was So with the odor being pushed past us, and me and my dog actually My dog caught it about 50 yards. And he picked it up going back. But the IED was rigged for MRAPs, and our little weight wasn't But we could've definitely Megan Leavey and her from an IED. Military uses dogs to be able to protect soldiers Which is one of the reasons why we train the dog to work She was a little bit on the luckier side. Based off my experience, I I'm going to give it a 10 out of 10. Based off the equipment, based off of the situation itself. You remember me? Your favorite chew toy from 2015? A lot of the military working dogs are fairly temperamental. I definitely have a few from dogs when I was in the service. That going in, leashing them, and they decided to go ahead and bite me. So we do use muzzles quite a bit for more aggressive dogs. Typically in the beginning, you're not meeting them with a muzzle on, just because of the We don't want to stress the dog Now, if it's a very high-risk dog, then yes, we would put a muzzle on. Just because we know is more than likely going to bite you. Me and you are going to 1,500 miles. Just act like your daddy's As the handler approaches this We would want to approach a just to show the dog that So the dog doesn't take advantage. The voice, the way he's speaking We don't want to come But we also don't want to come We want to come in with a All right, I'm going to leash you up. All right? Be cool. He gets down to the dog's level. Wouldn't necessarily get as in face to face. Only because that's a very big risk. But also, we don't want to come in and hover the dog as a dominant and showing a dominance play. Realistically, he could do this, but he would put himself into with having a dog right in his face. What are you all so scared of? She's mellowed out big-time. Hey man, I forgot to tell you not to touch her on the ears, man. I left that part out. Most dogs don't really It's just every dog has its own trigger. It could be its paws, it could be leg, rubbing the side of them, putting your hand over their head. And this particular dog, Hey, we weaned her off the Prozac, so she might get moody from time to time. This dog's on Prozac for PTSD. You have some that when regular, they can really turn into a pet, a household pet. My last military working dog, he actually went to a home as a retirement, a home with kids. And he's been doing great. This particular dog is based off of its military experience and based off of the loss Rating-wise for this scene, It's very realistic for a dog with PTSD and aggression issues and with a trigger, of touching the ears. No, no, let's go. It wouldn't really be realistic to send a dog on another dog. One, because we don't train that, because it would be more of a distraction, especially when it comes And even as law enforcement, they wouldn't want that, with the dog not having This would be more of a natural reaction, versus training. You're OK. You're OK. With Sam being a German shepherd, it is fairly common for a protection dog. Dog is very loyal. It is a great protector. And it is a dog that will This scene, I would rate a 3 out of 10. Really, we would never OK Max, go search. It is an option to have the One of the things with that because you do have, like, you have the kid with You know, there's a So normally you'll see a like 30 to 50 feet worth of a line, to be able to control a little bit better, just in case you do have You see the dog, he That's very common with an explosive dog. We do teach it black powder, which is in most weapons. And smokeless powder, which He probably missed that guy because he was overwhelmed from the odor of the weapons that were down there. My rating for this, for &quot;Max,&quot; is definitely going to be a 10 out of 10. Everybody has their way of searching, and that's one of the techniques, and he performed it very well. Based off the clips that we watched today, my favorite scene is going We don't see that with all that action, but it's Thanks for watching. If you enjoyed this, fetch the next video for another.