(relaxing music) - Welcome to another episode in the Beginner's Guide to Coffee, and today we're covering Now, that doesn't mean I'm gonna give you an exact recipe for all that we're gonna cover. That would take a really, Instead, I'm gonna give you the kind of idea behind the drink, so that you know what to order, what you might expect when you do, and what you might want to make at home. So, first on the list, (relaxing music) Espresso is now incredibly It is basically a small, strong coffee brewed under pressure, typically topped with a red-brown foam called crema. That seems a little wishy-washy, but there's loads of different ways to make espresso these days. Now, the Italian National which of course exists, does have a very precise and I'll show that to you here. When you talk about there's a bit of a confusion between what is a single because here we've got, for a single espresso, but often you'll see recipes for 14, 18, 16, 20 grams of coffee. That's because they're brewing inside a double basket so they're basically brewing a double espresso. Now, you'll see Italian espresso talks about milliliters in the cup, that's a volume measurement, whereas modern espresso And if you have grams in the cup, and how many grams of you have what are called ratios, so the ratio between ground A traditional espresso to one-to-three range, right? So that's how much liquid in around 25 to 30 seconds, typically under, say, six at a brew temperature between 88 and probably 96, 97 degrees Celsius. I don't want to be overly because it can and should but that ratio will give of what to expect from And as I said, modern coffee a double espresso as standard. Traditional coffee shops a single espresso as standard. Another quick note, if you're in Italy, you'll probably notice an espresso at the bar. They say, un caffe, right? They just say, a coffee. That is the default way of so if you order a (relaxing music) A common variation on an That name means restricted, and the idea is from the you get less liquid. And that liquid will be more more kind of textured The easy way to do that is and let less liquid The better way to do it so the whole flow is slower, and you're able to using less water. But in terms of ratios, say, one-to-one, or, say, That would be broadly speaking the definition of a ristretto. (relaxing music) Increasingly popular in modern It just means a long coffee. Here, the ratio is much higher. Typically, it's not just the case of pushing more water that you would brew an espresso with. Here, you'd be grinding coarser and allowing a lot more liquid to flow in a kind of similar brew time. Here, the ratio might up to one-to-five, one-to-six, and that's kind of the limits, really, of a traditional lungo. (relaxing music) Next up is espresso con panna. Now this is a drink more than inside of Italy. It's not a traditional drink necessarily. Here, it's just an espresso topped with a little whipped It's also more commonly seen where you'd want to buffer a bit of that bitterness with the cream. It's not typically served more modern style specialty coffees. (relaxing music) The macchiato is a but it shouldn't be. The name means marked or stained, and I think its history to a traditional espresso bar in Italy. There, lots of coffees would be served. You'd kind of order your drink, pick up something that sort of separately. Here, if you wanted just a little bit of milk in your espresso, which is kind of what the drink But, because of the crema on an espresso, if you pour just a you can't necessarily tell which one has just a splash of milk in it. So in order to tell which one was which, the barista would grab that jug of milk, grab a little teaspoon of foam, and dot the one that with a dot of foam on top. So that way, when you you could see easily which This was how it was until really latte art And at that point, a macchiato became an because baristas wanted and pour nice-looking because it's hard to do So the drink has more recently shifted, and a modern macchiato of espresso and milk, steamed milk with a thin However, we should mention which Starbucks has used where you have a kind of latte drizzled or marked with caramel, and I think that has caused over the last 10 or 15 years (relaxing music) Espresso romano, Roman espresso, I guess, is served very simply. It is a shot of espresso Now, you see it served or as a little slice of lemon. I would say with lighter, kind I would avoid the lemon slice, and I would go for a lemon twist because you're adding to an already quite acidic beverage. But with a darker roast, might contribute just a and be really quite pleasant. (relaxing music) The cortado is another drink that's gotten a little bit confusing. It is historically speaking a It's most commonly seen there, and it is a one-to-one of These days, it's become a little bit like the sort of macchiato so the barista can pour latte art, and it can be anywhere of coffee to milk, to a This is definitely a drink and the traditional style one and there's a huge amount of variance in the strength or size of especially in modern coffee shops. (relaxing music) In a very similar vein The name, despite being an Italian name, probably doesn't It was probably Italianized because it's not a drink It's a smaller latte. Typically, it's a single shot of espresso, and the ratio is one-to-two, sometimes one-to-four. It crosses over with the cortado in many specialty coffee shops, where one shop's cortado is identical to another shop's Piccolo. That can be a little bit confusing, but that's roughly the idea behind it. It's a small latte. (relaxing music) The story you most often is that after World War Two, American soldiers stationed in Italy couldn't handle espresso, and so had asked for it to to be more like American coffee, and thus was born the Americano. It's probably not true. Modern espresso wasn't and took a couple of years to really gain popularity after that. Ultimately, the idea is right, though. This is a way of making espresso close to American style filtered And to do that, you use hot water to dilute down the espresso. These days, that ratio will go from anywhere from to one-to-five. It's pretty open in that regard. And typically a specialty shop will put the hot water in the cup first and pour the espresso on top. The order you do them in doesn't actually make any real difference. It just looks much and then coffee on top. (relaxing music) No, the long black is a little because of the culture that it came from. This is a drink that came out and as that culture spread, as that style of espresso brewing spread, they were brewing a lot of up-dosed, so a lot of coffee in the portafilter, ristretto-style espressos, and that was being used in a long black. So it's a little different because traditionally, typically, it's a double ristretto It's a stronger, slightly than an Americano, but often there's not all (relaxing music) The cappuccino is super interesting to me because it has such an In fact, I made a whole but ultimately the It goes all the way back to Vienna, and it was called a kapuziner. And here, you used coffee to the color of the Capuchin monks' robes. That was how you described you wanted your coffee. Since then, it's changed a great deal, and a modern cappuccino is Firstly, it should be a You might see a ratio of one-to-three, to one-to-five in terms and it should have a thick Ideally, that foam should be micro foam, where bubbles so small that and it's a delicious, lovely drink. Now, there is the old rule that doesn't really make any sense, that is one part espresso, and one part milk foam. Now, that means if you had a single shot of Italian espresso at 25 mils, then your single-shot cappuccino would be a 75 mil drink, which it's not. (relaxing music) So the caffe latte is interesting. It's another drink that evolved despite having an Italian name. You don't really see Its history or its roots might be something like the cafe au lait, the French drink where you'd and equal parts of that and hot milk, often served in a bowl. Dip a little pastry in But the caffe latte, is defined by being a The ratio of milk to coffee and it will have some foam This means it's very popular for people who like a sweeter, milkier thing, and popular with baristas who can pour really nice latte art into it. Ratio wise, it will vary quite a lot. It can go from, say, one-to-four, up to one-to-six, in some cases. Often it's served as a larger drink with a double shot in the base. (relaxing music) The history of the flat white Those from Australia argue those from New Zealand would It most likely originated against the big, awful, of the 1990s. People didn't want a They just wanted a flat, white coffee. That was it. Just give me not the big foamy And these days a flat especially in Europe, in a lot of specialty shops. It would be defined as in that it's typically a double shot drink in say a five or six ounce with the textured milk similar to a latte, so a thin layer of foam on top. Again, commonly poured with latte art because you've got that really thin, silky texture of milk that lets you pour quite intricate, delicate While it has been adopted by some larger chain coffee companies, if you see it in a chances are there's a bit of and you'll probably (relaxing music) Caffe corretto is a kind of It means a corrected coffee, and it's corrected by This is often served as an espresso with a little booze on the side. Sometimes the booze is but what I most commonly is that people will drink the espresso, nearly finish it, and swirl it around and sort of and mix it with the alcohol As for alcohol, most often sometimes sambuca, occasionally cognac if someone's feeling fancy, but those would be the main in a caffe corretto. (relaxing music) Historically, the word mocha kind of existed in around coffee when it was referencing Coffee from that part of the world was often labeled as mocha, and what became popular at were mocha java blends, theoretically blends of coffees from Yemen with coffees from Java. Now, this became a kind a kind of idea rather and people began to put other coffees in their mocha java blends, just to aim for that heavier taste profile. How that connects to a hot chocolate with some espresso in but that seems to be the kind As for the drink itself, it really is pretty variable People might use sort of couverture, sort of melted chocolate. They might use a chocolate syrup. There are no hard and fast rules. You might even see in some cafes, too. It is ultimately a hot chocolate with a single or double shot of espresso, but there's really very around what a mocha is. In some cases, it might have Ultimately, you do you. Now, there are a few that I just want to touch on quickly. But before that, I want to talk with a short ad for Skillshare. Skillshare is an online learning community where millions go to take the next step in their creative journey. I use it to indulge my creativity, to fire my creativity in a Sometimes that might be photography or it might be something culinary. Recently, it's been video. I've really enjoyed on video for Instagram. Sometimes I like to go back to the basics and kind of dive right and Hallease is a great teacher. I enjoyed this class, not just because it was a but because Hallease is a great teacher. And as someone who does a lot of teaching and communicating through video, watching a great teacher teach is also super useful for me. Premium members get access to and they're adding new stuff all the time. If you want to check it out, click the link down The first thousand of you to sign up will get a one-month Thank you Skillshare for (relaxing music) So the red eye is really a drink that I've only ever seen in North America, and it obviously references the same way you might take and, you know, arrive and feel pretty terrible and need some coffee to pick you up. It's basically a filtered coffee with an espresso dropped in it, just to give it some more Personally, I would separate and then take my filtered coffee with me. But, if you're in a hurry, I guess just throw it all (relaxing music) Now, the breve latte is that I typically only It refers to a caffe latte. Instead of using milk, which if you're not familiar with it, is half whole milk and half single cream, so a notably higher fat That's basically it. It's the same ratios as you'd aim for, I guess the same texture, though half and half won't so you'll have a slight variance in sort of foam texture there. It is a milky, kind of fattier, richer version of a caffe latte. (relaxing music) Last up, I want to talk Now, this is actually but quite a confusing drink. It originates most most likely in Blue Bottle. It's a drink that's named made by a company called Libbey. They make a particular glass and if you had coffee and milk in that, it was a kind of one-to-two It was quite a strong milk drink with a little bit of foam on top. That was a gibraltar, and and it's not always served in but that's roughly the idea behind it. This happens once in a blue moon, where a cafe kind of names a drink and it kind of leaks out It's kind of interesting. Ultimately, if you're ordering you're really probably or a cortado in some places, too. It's really within that but it did seem worth But now I really wanna hear from you down in the comments below. Did I miss a drink out? I know I didn't put the affogato in, but that's because it's Maybe there's a definition I'd love to hear from you. Leave me a comment, let But for now, I'll say thank and I hope you have a great day.