Welcome to another Mathologer video. In 2007 a unrelated mathematical gems was discovered. has largely gone unnoticed and is actually in do something about this sorry state of affairs and and save it from oblivion :) Ready for something gems? Well, first there is the iconic identity. the smallest instance of the double-miracle that square and that therefore by the converse triangles all of whose sides are integers. Of course Pythagorean triples like 3, 4, 5 people have been obsessing about for thousands of gem. Our second mathematical gem is the super 5, 8, 13 and so on. You all know the drill... and so on. Starting with two 1s, in the Fibonacci term. Easy peasy. Again, just like 3 squared plus this sequence that miraculously shows up all over mathematical gems possible have in common? Not let's do something unusual. Let's bend the like this. For the moment, let's focus on those the rest out of the way. There. We'll come back bending the Fibonacci sequence that's new. Now, these numbers and look at their products. Why pick Don't worry and just run with it for the 1 times 3 is 3. Another pair. 1 times 2 is 2. 2. PLUS 1 times 3 is 3. 2+3, that's 5. 3,4,5 , Maybe not? But wait, wait, we are not finished numbers in the red block and all of them tell us First let's look at the incircle of the triangle. touches all three sides of the triangle. Sort In our example, the radius of the incircle top we get 1 times 1 is 1. Then there are sort of the airbags of the triangle :) Each of and extensions of the other two sides. For the hypotenuse and touches these extensions The radius of this excircle is 6 and 3 times 2 1 times 2 is 2. Finally, this excircle has radius first four Fibonacci numbers have so much to tell Let me summarise all this. So there are six ways something important about the 3,4,5 triangle. Top of the excircle of the hypotenuse, and the two other two excircle radiuses. Then this vertical triangle, that one here doubled is the 4 and the right? And one more thing. The product of all times 1 times 2 times 3 equals 6. And the area of this case 1/2 3 times 4 which is also 6. NICE :) Let's bring in the next Fibonacci number 5. These famous Pythagorean triple in exactly the same way. A lot of you will also be very familiar with this our products really work out again. There 1 times doubling that gives 12, 12 squared. And 1 times Fantastic :) And what about all those circles. and 1 times 2 at the top is 2. Tick! That radius equals 15. Nice. 1 times 3, the radius is 3. All works perfectly :) Area also works out. again this block of Fibonacci numbers also 16, 30, and 34. And all the radius business works ever after, as we push the Fibonacci sequence But there is a lot more. A LOT :) Things to Pythagorean triples growing on some bizarre the mysterious Feuerbach circle in action (ever real-life applications of Pythagorean triples Before I get going just quickly. The discovery and Pythagoras and most of what I'll be by H Lee Price and and Frank R. Bernhart in the I'll put links to these preprints in the I'd also like to thank Colin Pountney for Now let me show you a bizarre tree of Pythagorean by the Dutch mathematician F.J.M. Barning discovery that this Pythagorean triple only pointed out in those half-forgotten So, let me grow this Pythagorean triple tree for root of this tree is what's up there in the Pythagorean triple 3, 4, 5. We grow the tree Let's highlight the three pairs of ex-circles. Those ones there. Get rid of the Now we complete the three boxes al la Fibonacci. our original Fibonacci box translates into a magic, so does this new Fibonacci box. Let's times 5 is 15. 1 times 4 is 4 double that is 8. 1 Again complete this box a la Fibonacci. 3+2 is triple. Again, 1 plus 2 is 3. 2 plus 3 is 5. We that one just gives the second most Let's keep growing the tree. The three children There, make three copies on the left box. to the ex-circles. Get rid of the other numbers. a la Fibonacci. More Pythagorean triples. The going forever by spawning more and more children Now, of course, it's amazing that all this works is that this tree produces ALL Pythagorean appears exactly once. Really? :) Well, actually, does not produce all the Pythagorean triples, it triples, the so-called primitive Pythagorean To start with, since swapping the 3 squared and substantial, I'll consider the Pythagorean triples of the two ways of writing a Pythagorean if we scale the triangle by a factor 2, we If we scale by a factor of 3 we get another the smallest Pythagorean triple that corresponds and all the other Pythagorean triples like that triples that are minimal in this respect you know all the primitive Pythagorean triples you Anyway, as I said, our miracle tree contains all And since absolutely every Pythagorean the tree really captures all Pythagorean triples. tree has this property at the end of the video. 185 is a primitive Pythagorean triple. What are with this Pythagorean triple? Leave your answer how to navigate from 3, 4, 5 to the triple middle, right children. So what I am after are child, then middle child, then middle child Here is one more crazy fact that will become Turn all the columns of our boxes into fractions or, more precisely, a tree of pairs of fractions. to start, all the fractions are less than one. is the fact that this tree contains every positive Again, I am lying a little bit. The tree does 1 exactly once, it contains every REDUCED tree contains the reduced fraction 1/2. There. other fraction that reduces to 1/2. Again, the one and every one of these exactly once. Noice. this tree contains every rational number in surprising. Just think about how densely packed but somehow, miraculously, here we find these If this reminds you of the Farey tree, another to another beautiful insight. You can read about in the description of this video. Before we put here is a bit of an interlude. Let me show you It's all sort of self-explanatory and so I'll I've known these pretty Pythagorean trees Anyway these are nice fractal constructs that are if you are looking for a special Christmas tree there :) I should mention that I produced this some Mathematica code in a post by chyanog Mathematica code in the description of this show a very pretty animation of a spectacular and Pythagoras in a closely related ingenious way Something else to look forward to. Also, If the area of the bottom square of the tree little tree? Leave your solutions in the comments. it contains every primitive Pythagorean there is another aspect to this tree that in my visually capture the simple parent-child grow this tree purely in terms of triangles and Definitely one of the prettiest pieces of geometry for connoisseurs. Let me show you. Okay, let's Pythagorean triple combo. Quick reminder, in the top two numbers the incircle, bottom two and the diagonals, this one and that one, they hypotenuse excircle, other two So, 3,4,5 at the bottom that's the parent and How are the children related to the parent 3, 2 on top, so the incircle radius of this child 3, 2 is at the bottom and therefore corresponds Now, in theory the child triangle like that one here. Let's see whether NICE, that circle really fits perfectly :) Okay, 3 times 1 is 3. In the parent 3,1 3, that one there. And the right-angled child And for the pink child things pan out like this. also quickly animate the pink child having the way the tree grows in terms those circles. the right is how you can also see the triangles referring to the Pythagorean triples up there on you can actually describe the complete growth purely in terms of the pictures over there. No miracle. Let me show you. Okay, let's As you can see the four circles don't another mathematical superstar makes its Wilhelm Feuerbach discovered something that the that if you take any triangle and mark the through these three points touches the incircle all sorts of other magical properties. For triangle the circle also always passes through dedicate a whole Mathologer video to Feuerbach's there always is this special circle that touches For the moment let's remove the incircle. Okay, centers of the three ex-circles. Now extend these with horizontal and vertical short sides like insight. Scale these triangles by a factor of four Seeing is believing. Let's Here we go How long is this vertical side? now I said we have to scale these triangles there 24 is the length of one of the sides of the Count again. 1 and a bit. Actually, this bit is 4 times 1.75 is 7. Works again. So, really, if get a right-angled triangle with sides 7 24 and Brilliant. How about the other two triangles. is 28. Aaaaand ... 28 works. This side is 11.25 long is this one? Well 12. And 4 times 12 is 48. And Okay, now for some visual candy. Let's animate the incircles. Super pretty don't you think? geometry. Of course, that was all a bit fast and of a parent. The parent triangle is the one in triangle. Connect the center of Feuerbach's circle angled triangles with vertical and horizontal the 5, 12 13 parent triangle in the middle isn't it? But there is one more AHA moment hiding incircle earlier. Well let's put it back in at the to the center of the Feuerbach circle. There. Now the incircle center. And extend to a right-angled Ring any bells? Doesn't it look like a scaled Well, in the tree the parent is connected to ITS parent. And now it turns out that what the parent of the parent which in the case of And it turns out this always works. For any reconstruct ITS parent triangle by connecting the extending the connection to a right-angled And scaling this triangle by a factor of 4. Pure entries in the tree have a parent except for construction to 3,4,5? How do things fail there. Whenever I do one of these pure maths video to appreciate anything unless they are also given fun and important real world applications of from another video? That's my father. When I was project together with him. I think the task a bathroom. To tile a room you usually tile row this only works out nicely if the walls of the On that day, my father introduced me to a simple If that's our room, mark 3 meters from one mark 4 meters from the corner on the other marks. If you get 5 meters you can be pretty A very simple, but at the same time very powerful who among you already did know this trick? important life lesson :) Okay here is a another life lesson :) Have a look at this. me to give this pearl necklace to my wife solution to this puzzle at the very end of this Okay let's climb up the tree along a few First let's climb up right in the middle triples that we encounter along the way. What's pretty obvious. The first two This will continue forever as we ascend the tree. triples with this special property along the for example, for the blue one the two short sides the triangle will be very close to being an the higher we climb, the triangles will get closer since the short sides always differ by one we'll we just get arbitrarily close. Interesting, at this point? Well, for example: Are there any words, are there Pythagorean triples the first two Well let's see. If there are such integers A and This means that an isosceles triangle with root of 2 can be written as a fraction, if and you probably all know that this is not the case. And so we conclude that right-angled isosceles Bummer ! :) However, all this is not a complete close to being isosceles we can use the numbers in 2 by fractions. For example 169 divided by either 2. Let's check. There... pretty close. And of course being isosceles, the corresponding approximations The family of triples that we come across on our family named after the great 17th century challenged some of his colleagues to find some ascending on the far left and right of the tree Let's first climb up on the right. In this family the largest number and the next actually named after Pythagoras who is credited course, just as with Pythagoras's theorem which cannot be sure who originally discovered this know a lot about Pythagorean triple 2000 years to see what's happening in terms of the let's draw these special triangles such that the a look. There the 3,4,5 triangle. 5,12,13 that rescaled like this, the triangles become higher up in the tree. In fact, very soon the Interesting. Finally, Plato' family named That's the family of triples that you In this family the largest number is two the outer families are very similar. Rescaled, the There are a couple of interesting questions other interesting families of Pythagorean triples correspond to climbing the tree in certain regular And so on. Lots of room for exploration Well this is Mathologer and so I definitely still things I talked about today. So for the keen among start with any two positive integers at as usual a la Fibonacci. So, A plus B that's At the very beginning of this video we chose but later on in the tree most of the choices at this point in time most of us would probably choose for A and B, our pair picking will always radius stuff, as long as we complete the box not hard to check. But before we do this, let's will make things look a lot nicer in the long about so far perfectly with a famous theorem what we'll do is to is to choose the numbers on things off in the box. Again pretty much anything always has to be chosen greater than U. Obvious, let's start by choosing U and V instead of A and good idea. Okay, U+V goes there. What about the You got it? Fibonacciwise we are moving in the we have to subtract. That number up there should just quickly double check the Fibonacci action and U + V equals U+V :) So the box is really the three numbers in the corresponding would-be is the product of the circled numbers, so V minus school maths torture time that V-U times V+U is V that's just U times V. That's it? No remember we V. Third number. Remember for that one we have to times V. Simplify on algebra autopilot. And so in And that this equation really always holds no easily check by expanding everything on the left the results. Again, if you choose 1 and 2 for U 4, 5 and if you chose U and V to be 2 and 3 Now if you've been around for a while maths wise really ancient, something that already popped in Euclid's Elements, the most successful and time. There in book 10 of the Elements, Euclid that we get all primitive Pythagorean triples ways such that 1) U is less than V 2) that one that the two numbers have no common factors other even, no common factors. As long as we make such we get every such triple exactly once this way. So Pythagorean triples ages ago. Pretty amazing. once, doesn't this ancient result seem like the really gives all the primitive Pythagorean triples at our tree. Let's focus on the right sides of the can check, all the conditions in Euclid's theorem tree. The number on the top is always smaller than and the other one is even and the two numbers And so to prove that the tree really features all only have to show that any possible Euclid choice of one of the boxes in the tree. That's a really Actually completing the proof is a pretty routine in this video. Let me just point out two delicious you look it up or make it up yourself. The first radius of a parent is always smaller than the Pretty obvious both in terms of the algebra and excircle radiuses. The second insight is that the incircle radiuses of all other right-angled 1. Anyway, just to give you a taste of the proof One of the things to prove is that every For this you first show that every primitive In turn that parent then has a primitive triangles having smaller and smaller radiuses. with incircle radius greater than one has string of primitive triples necessarily ends And this means that what we see over there is primitive Pythagorean triple we started with, exactly once in the tree. For more details I've omitted or only glossed over today check out so I started by showing you how the Fibonacci many other Pythagorean triples. However, it this translation was the growth rule of the Fibonacci sequence. In fact, as we just proved, of the box and filling in the rest a la Fibonacci not that special in this respect. However, it about the Pythagorean triples produced by the at these first four Pythagorean triples produced special? No? I give you an hint: Have a look at Can you see it now? Yes, all those numbers keep on going we get every second Fibonacci number every second Fibonacci number. This is very the triples are produced from the four Fibonacci this product plus that product. Why should that Well it's late in the game and so let me just the four consecutive Fibonacci numbers in the Now that third complicated That complicated expression turns out to be always the expression on the right is equal to this Also think about it like this. In the Fibonacci the next term. But who would have thought that any always combine into another Fibonacci number in everything Fibonacciwise, the Fibonacci sequence Anyway, that's it for today. Except, I also wanted the Fibonacci sequence and Pythagoras. This one