Chinese companies are autonomous vehicles. In August, the country 16,000 test licenses for around 20,000 miles of autonomous vehicle testing. One of the biggest players Baidu. The company says it in Wuhan, operating on its Go. CNBC's China bureau ride in one back in May. On China's notoriously drove up a ramp, made a way around bikers riding I tested out a trip from the the new Daxing Airport, and Baidu, Weride and Pony, and the rides were subsidized. But China-linked autonomous quietly been testing their China had carte blanche. Chinese companies came in they feel is sort of a freedom to develop, California roads for years. And then about a couple of Commerce discovered this a second, this could be a So they started to In September, the Biden ban on Chinese and Russian Cars aren't steel on wheels It's like a computer on There's a huge amount of Just think about it. Where Where your kids go. Where your house is. Where All of that data being sent Chinese military. It's just a risk that we CNBC wanted to learn more were doing on California's increased scrutiny around could mean for the industry Chinese autonomous vehicle presence in the United The very first time I came vehicle industry was right I was in Silicon Valley the Google of China, to launch the opening of a new And they would be doing in California, so that in able to deploy Baidu States and in China. This The push into the US was plan to make the country a technologies. They were part of a larger That was Xi Jinping, lieutenants, saying, hey, the global leader in next includes electric vehicles, autonomous vehicles. Well, ground in China got word started to race around and forefront of that. And But there were other followed. Since, several China-linked research labs in the US and by California's Department their autonomous vehicle firms Didi, WeRide, have offices in Northern many U.S. autonomous car Collectively, these five 1.6 million test miles on 2017 and 2023, gathering autonomous vehicle five companies, Didi is the an active a AV testing DMV's website. But while 1.6 million miles experts say it's nowhere they would expect from a bring a product to market. China has several companies they're not really making expect. We do know that did try to commercialize, trucking company, but after accident, they were no Pony.ai also had plans to service in California in never realized after the permit was suspended by following an accident in AVs ran into a traffic Pony.ai does still have a autonomous vehicle with a safety driver operated a grocery delivery using its autonomous been mentioned on the service since. What we see out of the are extremely spotty a continuous testing out of a more advanced Zoox. They have do test and development of efforts that we see from best, and certainly not peers. DMV data shows that the miles logged by some of the AV companies operating in less than the miles logged Waymo individually in the The same data shows that was an 84% decrease in the by these same China-linked At its peak, there were more doing testing in Today, 2024, I see very among Chinese autonomous products in the United So if competing in the US goal, why were these Experts say there may have The Chinese were here, recognize that Silicon autonomous vehicle go? You go to where the So they hired a lot of been working for Apple or said, let's get the best We have funding and we want company, take that China, apply it to our we're off and running. The regulatory framework testing was also more than in China during the technology. For example, state's first rules for the on public roads back in Meanwhile, companies in licenses to trial their AV years. But that regulatory rather quickly. Where competition between really rests is in the Autox, Weride, Pony.ai, venture with Geely called support at the provincial regulators who say we see vehicle services. We want power to accelerate that Now, that stands in stark here in the United States, concern is safety. We actually have better United States, but the carefully before approving The question of why these the US troubled Missy military officer and senior National Highway Traffic aware of the value of the collected by autonomous As people have been told the new oil. It became pretty clear to very much surveillance They have multiple cameras many different angles, and every day over and over and of testing, but also information that may not certainly is sensitive about vehicles that go in installations, about how we A car drives around, it will faces. It will capture movements of other all kinds of information of leverage in the future. Probably the single biggest those vehicles could be know, made to suddenly take randomly, spontaneously, at would quite know what I do think people need to one piece of information car is probably going to be attack or malicious use of It's actually learning through repetition in data don't know that an attack wasn't somehow tied back to in these systems. Representative Marc Veasey Last year, he and three a letter to the Biden the dangers that Chinese operating in the U.S. pose security and the government to act. For the companies that are and saying, we're just able to improve our that just doesn't make any We know that the Chinese to spy, and that any in China, that they're the Chinese Communist want to collect that data able to have certain levels when it comes to products. Still, Dunne points out that doing was in no way When it comes to where that Chinese companies in Nobody's talking. There's likely never know. But realistically, their accumulate experience and create coding. And naturally, that transferred back to And at the time, there were There weren't any legal Why not send it back to Of course we're going to do In an email to CNBC, it didn't treat Chinese than any other companies them licenses to test their When a company from any permit in the state of out some paperwork, pay a they're allowed to drive. So there's no restrictions post supervision, meaning what anybody is doing with The Biden administration's connected cars from China address some of these cover any systems and vehicles to the outside cellular, satellite, Wi-Fi driving systems like those The prohibition on software model year 2027, and the would take effect on cars The proposed bill comes on on Chinese vehicles that introduced earlier this Chinese companies were able exporting some components Morocco, which have free United States, and then those third countries into tariffs. So how do you plug Well, you know what? I assemble it in our friendly We're not looking at origin We're looking at the the software. And we United States, we want to the time being, on anything runs like a Chinese Cummings says that while the start, she would like more privacy of the public. I wish the Biden step further and make sure data, either. It's very tempting to sell video data being collected driving assist systems, so actually a more near-term being collected by all American manufacturers. Veasey agrees that says we should take note of American companies wishing If it wasn't that big of a us collect this same data they're not allowing any their roads. But not everyone agrees with Lei Xing has been covering over 20 years, and worries progress of autonomous The amount of data that pretty significant, but to politicized because unless collect information, we and the utilization of AI to go forward. Still, China has been much about foreign companies The country heavily high-resolution maps and for driverless systems due concerns. Currently, no for mapping in China. It's sells and manufactures some China, has been dealing In April, Tesla CEO Elon deal with Chinese tech Tesla access to Baidu's navigation technology for suite of driver assistance Do we see Waymo there? No. Do we say Cruise there? No. Do we see Zoox there? No. They've looked at it, get the permits to get That's their conclusion being and for the CNBC reached out to Didi, WeRide to ask them what ban and how it might affect Baidu and Pony.ai declined Autox and WeRide did not Still, as tensions between says that the US could be China. Waymo, Cruise, Zoox, the States, their single is getting the technology So it's safe enough that can expand. So there's here in the United States. They don't need to go to source their technologies They can do it here on Many Chinese autonomous chips and technologies from Qualcomm. And should those would definitely hamper with the leaders here in China has been hedging The country has begun semiconductors after the US country's most advanced Many questions remain about Chinese connected vehicles companies already operating implications it will have vehicle market. In an California DMV spokesperson aware of the proposed ban vehicles and would update for the affected companies the law be passed. They'd have to do a complete and say, well, if we're an incorporated here as a company, are we still That's their hope that they But I think, where are we It looks like the world is the China Plus camp and the And when it comes to future chips or autonomous vehicles, the trend seems power bases would like to its own systems so that and not reliant or side. Signs of Chinese autonomous from the US are already Global ride-hailing giant delist from the New York months after going public WeRide also announced that IPO. It's a week to week thing Chinese companies trying to Ten years ago is automatic. Today, it's really up in approvals on both sides of Complicating matters further happen to the relationship companies who already vehicle technology. Take partnered with Geely's manufacturer, for its sixth More recently, Waymo also partner with Korean of its robotaxis, leading hedging its bets. In an Waymo spokesperson said the Zeekr remains unchanged. The ban could also impact vehicles sold in the U.S. are assembled in China. The Department of Commerce said less competitive in the relatively higher prices of It estimated that 26,000 fewer vehicles would because of the rule. It's in the best interest of from their perspective, to from the cheapest companies So I get that, but it is that these companies be companies that definitely back to the Chinese Veasey says perhaps there's I'm not saying that we China. I'm saying that we rules on how we deal with on each and every thing something like autonomous they've just proved not be honest, brokers when the issue of trade or At least for the near expect autonomous car home markets. Look for the United States autonomous vehicle to After all, it's the most world, and by the looks of protection from Chinese come, too. On the Chinese They're going to grow and look for the Chinese to applications to friendly maybe South America, There's a recognition. Oh, United States. We learned a But from here forward, can build our own