Thousands of years ago, a little white and blooming under the feet of Ice Age giants This little flower belongs to the genus known thriving in cold climates like the Rocky Mountains, giant megafauna, sadly, are not. But for a brief time, about 12,000 years ago, Northern Hemisphere, from New England to central So how did this little, cold-loving flower with warmer climates, and for hundreds of Well, at the time, those places weren't After the northern glaciers reached their planet started to warm up. But then ... something happened. And it sent the world into a cold snap that For example, in the Channel Islands of Great celsius, whereas today it rarely drops below This cold spell was so intense that geologists those little flowers that flourished in the And yes, in case you were wondering, there cold event around 14,000 years ago that only The thing is, during the Younger Dryas, it This chunk of time also coincided with one history. So for decades, scientists have been studying out if something like it could happen again. And it turns out that what caused the Younger are both the subjects of ... heated debate. In the late 19th and early 20th centuries, in places where they didn't seem to belong, And they actually uncovered two layers of spells -- the Older, and then the Younger, Now, you can't find these flowers there So, since the flowers could only have lived this part of Europe had returned to a more And in more recent decades, more evidence For example, in ice cores from Greenland, are consistent with a period of much colder And in the UK, scientists used fossils of range for the Channel Islands. And they found that the warmest month was today's winter temperatures. But, while the evidence gave us a sense of event that allowed an arctic environment to happened. And figuring out the cause of the Younger There are lots of different hypotheses, ranging eruptions and meteorite impacts. One suspected culprit is the planet's flow You can think of it like a conveyor belt. Oceanographers call it the Atlantic Meridional This flow of ocean water starts near the Equator. And when the warm water moves north, some It also cools down as it moves toward the Europe. Both of these processes make the water more the movement of the conveyor belt. If this circulation pattern slowed down, the And that's actually the premise of the movie where New York freezes over - albeit on a But, what would make this system slow down? Well, some scientists think that the Younger Arctic Canada that held back a huge glacial In this scenario, A LOT of glacial water ended that water was fresh, not salty, it was less That density difference messed up the whole deep Atlantic is a crucial step in the ocean So, when that part broke down, it made the Then, the warm water got stuck near the Equator, And experts have found evidence of that meltwater -- in sediments north of Alaska dating back beginning of the Younger Dryas. Now, we know that the sudden flow of meltwater So the fact that it originally came from Alaska it was a huge amount of water. And what's surprising is that this vast the first place, because the ice sheet on So it's possible that warming actually drove Which sounds weird Now, another hypothesis is that the Younger in Germany, which we know happened around deposits that it left behind. Now, the direct effects of such an eruption of years -- like, maybe some cooling caused sunlight. But it could've had indirect impacts that ocean circulation or the expansion of sea-ice Atlantic. So far, experts think it's possible that they're still running computer models to And maybe it happened alongside the meltwater Then, in 2007, another possible cause gained This event could've unleashed that flood In this scenario, sometimes called the Younger a kilometer wide hit the Earth around 12,900 But, evidence of this impact remained elusive buried under Greenland's Hiawatha glacier. Early data show that it could be associated And, in addition to the crater itself, researchers all over the world. For example, research from South Africa has dating to before the Younger Dryas. Platinum is rare on Earth, but it's more So the rapid increase in platinum could be But the case isn't closed just yet. To figure out if a giant impact really caused old that crater in Greenland is. Also much of the chemical evidence is still One thing scientists are sure about is that place during the Younger Dryas. At the same time as this cold spell, an extinction the Americas, Europe, Africa, and Asia. By the end of this period, 36 genera of megafauna sloths, saber-tooth cats, and other iconic Now, most of these extinctions happened at doesn't mean the cold was the only factor There are a few different ideas about how Some researchers thought the most important This model was developed in the 1960s and But archaeologists weren't convinced - why megafauna all at the same time? There is some limited evidence from one beach and camels some 13,300 years ago. In addition to the bones, archaeologists also of mammoth, bison, and other game animals. And there's evidence that people hunted sites in North America. But the timing isn't quite right: some genera arrived in North America. So, even though there are some signs that analysis of the extinctions says that they humans and climate. And while a lot of research has been focused plenty of other evidence that shows that lots For example, fossils in Halls Cave, Texas there dropped during the Younger Dryas. And even though Texas is a long way from Greenland, The landscape in Texas changed from forest bison and two species of horse - disappeared But other animals just shifted their range. Halls Cave shows that warm-adapted hares were but not during the cooling period itself. And hares were part of the story on the other the Natufian culture were living in the southern These people hunted animals like hares, gazelles, And based on isotopes found in deep sea sediment to cool significantly, which had major impacts And in response to the colder temperatures, People had to move around more because they to sustain them. Finally, after about 1,200 years of cold, And because there's no clear answer to what exactly why it ended. But based, again, on sediment cores, we know again about 400 years before the period ended. And it's still unclear why there was such and the climate of the Northern Hemisphere. Despite this lag, it took less than a hundred which is really fast by climate standards. In fact, we know that temperatures in Greenland or less! Now, the events of the Younger Dryas might was actually just the most recent event of There were many climate changes before the This one has gotten more attention because big, biological changes, like the extinction As temperatures warmed, the Dryas flowers and much of the world went back to its previous for good. Ultimately, what we're still learning about the larger history of Earth's climate and To me, it's nothing short of astonishing little flower. Ok. Wanna know more about what happens when an lake? Check out our episode How 7,000 Years of Epic Also thanks to this month's super chill &amp; Eric Higgins, John Davison Ng, and Patrick Support us at patreon.com/eons for sweet benefits Like this one from Lulu. I love the La Brea tar pits. There's some beautiful spots there that And as always thanks for joining me in the Subscribe at youtube.com/eons for more adventures