INTRODUCTION BARRIER IN SALES to office during the evening, I was terrified of closing. to get face-to-face with prospects Then, at the end, I would choke to do now?" leave it with me and let me think about I learned later that the words, "Let me it" we'll never meet again." were "thinking it over" and that my buyers. But no one ever called. the price, the market, or the making sales. It was me. More question. frustration and failure. My very me think about it; why don't you call me life. sorry, I don't make callbacks." "You don't make callbacks?" need to know to make a decision right He looked at me, then down at my brochure, if you don't make callbacks, I might as He got out his checkbook, signed the order, I walked out with the order in a mild state breakthrough. the decision-maker, and used the it over: "I don't make callbacks." now." minutes, compared with my normal on air! Within one month, I had broken to sales manager, and -two salespeople under me, all of first meeting. Business boomed! of the key closing skills is essential capable of. sales-closing techniques, all 1,000,000 salespeople to be sales stars. in selling is your ability to get a book is to show you how to remove this and all the money you want. know how to prospect answer objections, and ask for the order why prospects hesitate and delay, and to overcome these obstacles. As a result, who make all the money. at all. I was given some brochures people." I was nervous about cold-calling afraid of rejection, of which I got a lot. door to door, barely making enough to get The Great Question that some salespeople are more my life. for advice, especially on how every book I could find and practiced to audio programs of top salespeople seminars and sat up front. learned. If it sounded good, I would go I discovered later that this is the of succeeding or failing. and to close the sale. I practiced with hesitant prospects. Eventually I to ask the prospect to make a from rags to riches, from new I ever worked for. I later learned a remarkable thing: if you absolutely confident in your ability to ask presentation, you will be more aggressive will have higher self-esteem and a better sales day, and you will even use your time Because you know that you can close the sale, of the time. This self-confidence will positively them even more likely to buy from you. Your an upward spiral of increasing success. closing, are learned and learnable. If close the sale. closing, are learned and learnable. to close the sale. The only reason that because you have not y et mastered the these time-tested methods, you can use better and better. most successful and highest-paid people 1 SALES PERSONALITY capable of becoming, is the only real end --Robert Louis Stevenson INSIDE job. It begins more important than your product sales skills. It is more important than the fact, your personality determines fully This is easily proven by the fact that there high sales volumes even with a highly competitive, depressed market. At the same time, there buoy ant markets who are selling poorly. Mental fitness is very similar to physical requires proper diet and exercise. Mental regular practice. Become more mentally fit, will rise accordingly. and self-esteem. Self confidence yourself. The better you will have in prospecting, presenting, Like and care about yourself, and you will successful with them. to be successful in selling. If you excuse to avoid talking to prospects for failure or rejection. more you like others. You like other The more confidence they have in you, are selling. of someone whom we about. We prefer to buy from people about yourself, and you will genuinely Take Charge of Your Life many people here are self-employed?" their hands. Then I ask again, One by one the audience realizes what I am their hands. They suddenly realize that they The biggest mistake you can make is to ever yourself. From the time you take your first Self-employed. You are the president of your selling your services into the marketplace only one employee--yourself. Your job is of your services throughout your working life. for themselves and everything their activities and for their results. They say no to criticizing and to be, it's up to me!" In a study done in New York some y ears ago, percent of people in every field looked upon treated the company as if it belonged to them being in charge of every aspect of their lives. to their company personally, exactly as if The biggest mistake you can make is to ever yourself. From the time you take your first The sales manager of a Fortune 500 company He said that he was with his top salesman, of a $200 million contract with a major client. aside and asked, referring to the salesman, he?" a bit surprised. He said, "What "Well," the client said, "in all my the 'my contract' and so on. He sounds that true?" "Yes, in a way he does." As the president of your own personal services in charge of everything that happens to your training and development, and of continually control of sales and marketing, production organization and efficiency. You are the boss. themselves passively rather than lives and changing things they don't like, along and do it for them. The great own personal and professional programs, or attend courses. They only to pay for it, but also to give them can earn more money. Go figure. Take all the training you can get. Use every learn more skills that you can use for the upgrading your knowledge. If your company accept them immediately. Don't delay. Every in your own future. a result of your own choices up to both your actions and your inactions in the both what you have done and what you fail to do, like completing your start work, have a greater impact on do. The difference between winners and losers always accept responsibility themselves for Losers never do but instead always have some are doing poorly. looking for ways to solve the face each day. which we define as "an inflammation fatal to success. Once a person is progress, he makes excuses for every Winners are different. Winners are solution for way s to solve the problems and deal with They continually try new things. If one thing They never consider the possibility of failure. A major difference between successful salespeople that successful salespeople work much harder Stanley 's research for his book The Millionaire millionaires he interviewed attributed their Over and over, when successful people are say things like, "I was no smarter than harder than they were." to work hard. They are planning even claim that they work hard and they don't really work very hard at Don't Waste Time 50 percent of his or her working in a little later, works a little slower, leaves a little earlier. He spends most of coworkers, personal business, reading the Internet. earlier, work a little harder, and stay a hours and coffee breaks. They work in the make every minute count. H. L. Hunt, owner of more than two hundred richest man in the world, was once asked on success." He replied, In 50 y ears of experience, I necessary for success. people never do this. Second, have to pay to get what you want, Top salespeople are absolutely determined pay the price, in advance. Ambition and desire are the foundation qualities turns out, top salespeople have above-average Top salespeople have a burning commitment successful. They will not let anything stop "hungry." just enough money to pay their so they can get through one more the extra efforts that are essential for great MAKE THE EXTRA EFFORT a sales competition each y ear which was about 35 percent above their weeks' vacation in the Caribbean as a Each November, during the contest period, worked day and night to qualify for those had average sales throughout the y ear became period. and reviewed the sales of each made a startling discovery : the a week during the y ear. But in the to an average of four policies a week. By harder, those who qualified for the policy during the forty - to fifty -hour The managers sat down with their salespeople a little extra effort throughout the y ear, category all y ear long, instead of just once would translate into income over a forty -y If a person started selling when she was twenty five, and if the average salesperson made this would translate into ten extra y ears could achieve the same amount of income in y ears. And she would have the money ten y NO AMBITION, NO HOPE and tell me that they have no at their level of income. They make debt. They ask me what I can do for them more than they are already Reluctantly, I tell them that there is really ambition. If they don't have the desire they are today, there is nothing that anyone "Some people are born to be followers, and and I have to assume that you were born to anyone who particularly likes this response. success. Top salespeople also have high levels of empathy, their customers. Ambition, the desire to achieve, genuine caring for the well-being of your performance. say s that EQ or emotional quotient, for success. He defines along well with a large number of other feelings, and moods. He concludes that for building and maintaining high quality and at work. make every effort to shoes." A person with sympathy may feel him from the outside. A person with mind and heart of the customer and to is an old saying, "If you can see Joe sell Joe Jones what Joe Jones buy s." Empathy requires the development of long-time salespeople think primarily in terms of making for long-term relationships or the future. about the second and third sales to this customer first sale. Further, they imagine selling Everything they do in their dealings with long term. As a result, they are far more salespeople. third sales to this customer while still they imagine selling to this customer Poor salespeople look upon every transaction and then get out. Peak-performance salespeople sales as much as they think in terms of opening THE IDEAL COMBINATION to be the ideal combination for is too ambitious, he will not care that sense this. If a salesperson is too to ask for the sale. Balance is essential. ever been in history, and they are sophisticated, knowledgeable, all time. with so many salespeople that through plastic wrap. If the her well-being, she perceives it it. She knows in a few minutes himself, or if he is genuinely concerned ASK GOOD Q UESTIONS AND LISTEN CAREFULLY empathy with a customer, or with intently to the answers. Dominate the Covey say s, "Seek first to understand, invest in understanding your customer's have for him or her and the more in the end. Top salespeople possess above average willpower They have the ability to keep on keeping on, and setbacks. They are willing to pay the eager to work hard. They are prepared to go are never any traffic jams on the extra mile." every bit of success that they aspire to no such thing as something for nothing, no way to get to the top is through hard, time. of people who have gotten into a and earned a lot of money in a short and in most cases, the people who made As they say, "Easy come, easy go." every bit of success that they aspire to must thing as something for nothing, no fast, The Highest-Income Years the fortieth or forty -fifth y ear of majority of individuals only develop the high earnings a bit later in life. States has a net worth of $1,010. One third next few y ears, are broke. They too common. desire, hard work, and of time, to achieve the success that you this book, you will move ahead faster Get Rich Slowly but Surely qualities for success in business lacks patience is not cut out for is no fast, effortless way to make money. selling them. Don't waste a or create financial shortcuts. Chasing the surest way to destroy your character and The worst thing that can happen to a salesperson during an economic boom, especially at the gets the idea that making money is easy. For for the next opportunity to make easy money. early success causes him never to settle down necessary sacrifices to achieve enduring success. himself, and to stop believing is to fail. Top salespeople have high levels of belief their companies and their product or service's There seems to be a direct relationship between product or service and how easily you can Your customer can never believe in your product William James of Harvard said, "Belief creates This is why it is so important for you to something that you consider good for your experienced having to sell something that good. If you have this feeling, you will never market. If you cannot put your whole heart sell very much of it. Salespeople approach me continually, saying, this company, or the people I work with, or to be successful at selling it. What advice I cannot help them. If you don't love your cannot possibly be successful selling it. respect your company and your boss, and you stand a chance against a sales professional In fact, you cannot even be lukewarm about competitive market. You have to believe that You also have to believe that your customer don't believe these things deep in your they should have it. One of the secrets of success in selling is salespeople love what they are selling. They defend it and argue over it. They will talk bed, they think about their product. When hardly wait to talk to prospects about it. make a living. But when the business gets words were never spoken. companies, and you'll find that these and services. That is why they sell so you get into this business, you gets into you, you will make a great life." Keep Your Word with themselves and with others. Earl Nightingale once said, "If honesty as the surest way of getting rich." as a sacred thing." You all things. Live in truth with yourself and the work that you have to do to achieve The average person is built like a human lie many experiences with half-honest or dishonest pick up insincerity or falsehood across a fool in the world is the one who thinks he THE CRITICAL DIFFERENCE commissioned a study to find out and not from another, even $50,000 interviewing customers, bought from one person over another word trust was defined as "feeling the and fulfill his promises." It is crucial that you never say your product Never make false claims. Never even exaggerate. things you can do to establish your credibility weak in comparison with that of your competitors. The top salesperson, because he has a combination natural ability to turn strangers into friends completely honest with yourself and you practice others, you like yourself more, and your customers you. and becoming an excellent person and you can never like or love anyone else anyone else to like you more than you is the single most important determinant both personal and business. Choosing the product or service to sell is married. There has to be the right chemistry, or service that you like, enjoy, and feel with your personality. salesperson will do poorly her. This does not mean there is It simply means that the salesperson Choosing the product or service to sell is There has to be the right chemistry, or it There are two types of products, tangible capable of selling tangible products, and products. If you can sell the one, you probably A TANGIBLE PRODUCT taste, feel, hold, demonstrate, and equipment, furniture, decorations, kind of person who likes tangible you are selling them. You can relate to are talking about them, describing never be successful or happy selling an AN INTANGIBLE PRODUCT OR SERVICE is something that you cannot touch or of some kind. For example, investments and training products and services are an idea based on concepts and numbers If you are the kind of person who loves ideas content selling some kind of intangible product. The best way to ascertain which type of salesperson am I interested in concrete products and things, to work with your hands and deal with products you do like philosophy, psychology, and metaphysics? politics and religion or your interests are selling intangible services. If your major clothes, and computers, then you should sell If you ever get into a field and feel uncomfortable service, this is an indication that you may individual personality. When you are selling become involved emotionally. It will excite your attention. You will like to think about heart is not in what you are selling, you THE KEY TO SUCCESS love your product and be excited work of your customers. You will only are selling is a great product or service on the market. are selling the right product for you is is an emotion that comes from you are doing on the outside is in If you are not enthusiastic about what for you. Perhaps the most common emotions of poor performers resentment. They are jealous of other people's opportunity to criticize and complain about behind their backs. Fortunately, their negative achievers. But it dooms these underachievers careers. Speak positively about them. Look Try to emulate them in every way reminding yourself that anything that as well. Be grateful that there are than you, because this is proof that for others what you want for Program Yourself for Success people, you program your same things that they do. And when it will find way s to help to move you toward your goals. It will subconscious mind will give you to achieve your goals. It is the most it any way you want. force in the world, and you can use Confidently Expect to Succeed research, psychologists have found that to go hand in hand with great success in in advance, you will be Everyone around you, making them offerings. you expect, with confidence, becomes expect to succeed, you will succeed. If you will be popular. If you expect to a good time. Your expectations will Your expectations exert an inordinate influence confidently expect to sell to a prospect, subconscious mind of the prospect. In a very enable you to influence the prospect into both of you. One of the greatest obstacles to selling is when the salesperson, as a result of attitude to be successful. He unconsciously manufactures advance, and when he goes in to see the prospect, himself that he is wasting his time. The prospect expectation and responds negatively to the Your expectations, positive or negative, are They can help you or hurt you. And good or those around you. Be sure that you manufacture expectations in everything you do. Virtually all customers are hesitant about been burned many times by salespeople in the knee-jerk objections and reasons for not buying. the money." "Business is slow right now." to look at," and so on. But none of these are and automatic responses to any sales However, if you confidently expect to sell, the customer eventually begins to relax and buyer has been completely turned around by expectations of the salesperson. sales resistance and kept on talking, the customer's resistance broke down, When you have been sold by a professional actually enjoy the experience. You don't happy that you bought the product or service, using and enjoying it. And the more confident more satisfied you are with the buying experience. each of your customers as well. The law of correspondence say s that "your world." In other words, everything that of what is going on with you on the inside. part of your sales or personal life, you have inside. Everything we have been talking about these inner changes in a positive and constructive Feed Your Mind with Mental Protein for thirty to sixty minutes each library of sales books. Each or watching television, invest thirty to will help you to perform better Henry Ward Beecher once said, "The first you put into your mind in the first hour sets day. If you feed your mind with something the first hour, you will perform better all relaxed, and self-assured. You will also be faster from rejection and disappointment. Average folks rise at the last then dash off for the office with no time Get up every morning two hours before your be at work at 8:00 AM, get up at 6:00, spend for your day. All top people arise early and rise at the last possible minute, run around office with no time for thinking or preparation. By getting up in the morning and reading a find yourself reading about one sales book fifty books per y ear. Fifty books per y ear total of five hundred books. Do you think results or your income? to read thirty to sixty minutes each of the most knowledgeable, skilled, the very best books written by top ideas, insights, strategies, and techniques could ever imagine. By the law of attraction, you will be the right time for you. As you build you will step on the accelerator more confidently toward sales faster than you ever thought possible. Not long ago, a young man, twenty y ears old, seminars. His name was Bob. He had long, unkempt had a negative attitude. During the seminar, thirty to sixty minutes each morning. He sat left at the end of the day without saying About two months later, I got a phone call came from a broken family, was a high-school minor problems with the law. Finally, his unemployed, had no ambition, and sat around Ultimately, the uncle laid down the law and rather than continue to sit around the house. Reluctantly, Bob went out and got a job in house to house and business to business. As made very few sales and very little money. continue living with his uncle and aunt. my seminar in the paper and in did not want to go. He only went the seminar, and picked him up In the two months following the seminar, however, The first thing Bob did when he got home was getting up each morning and reading for thirty job. Within a week, he was reading an hour AM and reading for two hours before he went sales took off. Then they exploded. He started more he sold, the more confident and enthusiastic A SUPERSTAR SALESPERSON his physical appearance. He had new clothes so he looked like a company began looking up to him and Six weeks after my course, they made him a charge of a small territory. Two months after and bought his first car. He had tripled and changed his personality. of his success to having been forced to thing he learned was the value of morning before starting out. It SIMPLE BUT POWERFUL a y ear. Many salespeople do not read whopping 90 percent of sales books are bought But whenever I talk with top I am always amazed to learn how at the present time. They sound like and concepts from their libraries of sales When you begin to read one book per week, yourself completely from the ranks of average onto the fast track and begin making more prove it for yourself. as exercise is to the body." The more you When you read more in selling, you products more effectively. The more your field. One of my clients is a sales manager with in a very competitive industry. Yet the salespeople of three times as much as those of his competitors Because of this, Everyone wants to work for companies are continually applying to him He told me that he had developed a very simple losers in selling. When he sat down to interview would say, "Thank you for coming in. Before What are some of your favorite books and audio personal development library ?" Then he If the prospective salesperson hesitates or friend stands up, takes her by the arm, and If the prospective salesperson can quickly programs that he reads and listens to, he A VALID TEST FOR PREDICTING SUCCESS who was not personally her own money in books and audio market. It was a waste of He had learned from experience to to their own personal and were the people who very soon as much as their competitors in "If you are not continually learning and else is, and when you meet that person, you --Reed Buckley overweight, unfit, smokes, eats too in any sport. No matter how nice or to win, he doesn't have a chance Author Reed Buckley once said, "If you are upgrading your skills, somewhere, someone person, you will lose." Business speaker Nick Carter once said, "Audio breakthrough in education since the invention When I started off in sales, frustrated and getting few results, someone introduced me Even now, after all these y ears, I still listening to top salespeople on audio sharing methods. Some of them are still with me today. university education each year just by you drive from place to place. was the term GIGO, which letters could also stand for "good in, good with audio learning as you travel from level to say and do what the winners TURN TRAVELING TIME INTO LEARNING TIME 25,000 miles per y ear. This means sits behind the wheel about 1,000 six months of forty -hour weeks, or two The University of California released a study get the equivalent of a full-time university educational audio programs as you drive from From this day forward, turn your car into Ziglar say s, "Enroll in Automobile University your career." you will be amazed at the each week, each month, and each CONDENSED KNOWLEDGE best ideas of ten, twenty, and even cost you hundreds of dollars and the distilled essence of the best thinkers programs as you drive around. when you come to a particularly how you could use it in your sales listen to it several times. By listening to alert throughout the sales day. Like a prospect, you will be attentive and MAKE EVERY MINUTE COUNT waste this precious learning time. to music in their cars. They miss one of to professional salespeople. the ears." For the salesperson, listening dieting on candy and soft drinks. He on the air. Instead of thinking about how are weakened. He loses his "edge." DO WHAT THE TOP PEOPLE DO to audio programs all the time. Their carry several different audio they feel they need to learn the most even know if their radios work, because ARE YOU SERIOUS? insists on listening to the radio as she is simply not serious about her success. I who have struggled for y ears at low of listening to one audio program (often tripled, sometimes in as little as Wouldn't it be a tragedy if the only thing three times as much as you are earning today single audio program? There are two great questions that you can high income in sales. These are two of the have used them over the y ears, and they have saving me many thousands of dollars. sales call is, what did I do right? parts of your performance. Even if were certain things that you did the best parts of your performance so You could write down: "I researched the client in advance." "I was well dressed and groomed." before speaking." "I asked for the order twice," and so By asking the question, what did I do right? focused on the best elements of your sales immediately after a sales call, you program create a predisposition to repeat these positive FOCUS ON IMPROVEMENT is, what would I do differently? positive things that you could do to Even if the sales call has been that you could do differently in the The advantage of these two questions is that positive. Force yourself to review and mentally ingredients of your performance. Then, the your subconscious mind will pass them back you for the sales call. Average salespeople have a tendency to ask asking themselves, what did I do right? they Rather than focusing on the best components the worst. This simply programs them to repeat "What would I do differently ?" is superior on your mistakes and shortcomings, and you again. very best sales calls. They review and did with the customer. As a result, they their subconscious minds. They then over again in subsequent sales calls. The power of suggestion exerts a strong influence and throughout your life. One of the key s the suggestive influences that you allow to minds. You must make every effort to ensure you are as positive as possible, just as you you wanted to feel the best about yourself You are positively or negatively influenced experience, and person in your world. If you programs, it affects you at an unconscious person. If you listen to useless babble on clogs up a drain and makes you less effective. in books, magazines, or newspapers, it fills demoti vate you and make you more easily discouraged. Perhaps the most important part of your suggestive people with whom you associate most of the Harvard, in his book The Achieving Society, group" was enough in itself to condemn a Your reference group consists of the people you associate, and the people with whom you reference group, in forming your personality, disapproving and critical, this can affect and sisters were helpful or hurtful can have you grow up, your friends at school, your associates exert an inordinate influence on FLY WITH THE EAGLES and associates with care. As Zig if you continue to scratch with the with those who are going folks who are positive and who have spend time with people who have virtues Meanwhile, get away from negative people. criticize much of the time. Especially avoid complaining about their work or about other "loser slime" that gets all over you and KEEP YOUR OWN COMPANY like" and "Birds of a feather flock This does not mean that they are are selective about the people with whom with whoever is sitting there or go out door. Instead, they deliberately choose time by themselves or with those people them. You must do the same. Here is a powerful way to put all these ideas method." Whenever I have started a new sales ground running. I set a goal to make 100 face-to-face time possible. From that moment on, I get work steadily all day long, often cold-calling, Don't worry about whether or not you sell the idea of selling aside for now and just 100 people and telling them about your product will happen during this time. First of all, people and listening to their questions and how to sell your product in that first 100 or two y ears. The second wonderful thing that will happen effort to sell, you will start to make sales and energy will increase with each call you augmented. You will feel more calm and comfortable. your customers, and they will like you and have made 100 calls, you will have turbocharged way to the top. next two y ears, you will find whom you called during your 100-call put them under no pressure to of you when they decided to buy what BREAK OUT OF A SLUMP out of a sales slump, or to start off a At any time, you can turbocharged calls as fast as you possibly you make a sale. There is something and enables you to perform at your with all of the other psychological book so far, you will become a zeal, confidence, and competence at before. You will have taken yourself in field position to earn Action Exercises: one of the hardest-working ; start earlier; work harder; stay 2. Make a plan today to go out and call on can; make it a game to see more people in in your business. work and your life, and refuse to as the president of your own 4. Start your own personal development library devote yourself to lifelong learning. product for you, tangible or to sell it each day ? and in your life; imagine that for the next twenty y ears. in advance that you will never give career. There is no defeat except from within, our own inherent weakness of purpose. 2 We learn wisdom from failure much more than success. We often discover what will work, finding out what will not work; and probably never made a mistake never made a discovery. CLOSING IS OFTEN THE MOST PAINFUL PART OF is the part that most salespeople dislike proceed. They freeze up and lose their feeling The prospect also dislikes having to make and closer to the end of the sales presentation, job as a sales professional is to structure move smoothly through the close and wrap up Closing is very much like a bump at the end You have established rapport, identified needs, answered objections. Now you have to wrap As you approach this final bump, your task quickly as possible. There is a story of an old gentleman who calls "Bill, I've got this rotten tooth, and much His dentist friend replies, "Well, Jack, Jack say s, "Wow! That's a lot of money. "It takes about one minute." cries. "That's an awful lot of money for "Well, Jack," say s the dentist, "if I can MAKE IT SMOOTH AND PAINLESS move smoothly through the close as possible. To minimize stress for both This is a key part of your job. end of the sales process. For you as a of all your efforts. The idea of start to feel tense. Your stomach churns. heart rate increases, and your throat to take action, and he may say no, fear of failure. move smoothly through the close and to possible. stress you experience. Take the prospect is a selling skill that you can learn with Once you have explained your product, and been aroused, move briskly past the close purchase. The key is to plan your close in advance. presentation first and then your close, plan presentation. Decide how you are going to engineer" your sales presentation. Start beginning and organize your sales presentation closing question. you are going to ask for the order informed and ready to buy. Plan and you can do it in your sleep. Top sales for word, in advance. So should you. wheels in frustration y ear after y ear, every sales conversation. When it comes their foreheads sweat, and they say cross their fingers, hoping and salespeople proceed through the single smooth, well-prepared process. 1. You must be positive, enthusiastic, and contagious. When it is clear that you intensely desire will have a positive effect on the 2. The prospect's requirements must be clear listening, you should know exactly what this your product. and the value of your product or about what your product does to 4. The prospect must believe and trust you. rapport and friendship. In addition, the prospect company and believe that they will deliver 5. The prospect must desire to enjoy the advantages offer. He must want what you are selling. a sale if the prospect is not intensely interested product or service. ideal for her needs, capacity to the prospect that this product or time. can you move confidently not been achieved, the prospect will refuse Closing Too Early You stop to look at a car for just a and say s, "That's a good choice; After you ask the closing question, you must word. Allow the silence to build up if necessary, In a situation like this, you don't know doesn't know anything about you. He is asking before you know anything about it. Attempting of what you are buying does not arouse buying insulted, and your first impulse is to simply Avoid High Pressure before you ask a closing question: Second, the prospect must need it. it. it and get full value out of your If you ask for the order before these four you will often kill the sale. The only pressure that you are allowed to pressure of the silence that takes place after After you ask the closing question, you must a word. Allow the silence to build up if necessary, loses. company was considering the automate every aspect of his national the job had done everything exactly identified the customer's needs, done and prepared a complete proposal for the final appointment, and the The president of the prospect company had was younger. He was curious to see how this close a $750,000 sale. In the final presentation controller and his accountant present to go came in with his engineer and computer programmer. As the salesman went through the proposal, installed, what would be involved, the warranties service they would provide, the additional other detail of the purchase. He gave him Finally he said, "If you like what I have this away." line, put his pen on the contract, and THE SILENT CLOSE to himself, He is going to use the salesperson was doing, so he just The salesman and the president sat there silently, seemed like an eternity. The silence lasted said a word. Neither of the other people present been prepared. pen, and signed the contract. At that else. The tension was broken, and the The pressure of the silence after the closing sales tool you have for concluding the transaction. Once you ask a closing question, you must anything. Just wait quietly for the prospect Recognizing Buying Signals the prospect will give off to let a decision. Relax and be aware of these it is time to ask a closing question. The prospect will often start talking faster. more positive and cheerful. In his mind, he tension has been broken. Whenever a customer positive and happy, you can speak up and ask SUDDEN FRIENDLINESS She seems to relax, shift gears, "How long have you been in "Would you like another cup of coffee?" you should respond warmly "Thank you. I will have another cup you need this?" Chin rubbing is another sign that the customer Whenever a prospect goes into deep thought, head goes down. If you are talking with a and thinking, stop talking immediately. Your no longer listening to you. If you continue noise in the room, like a big bee trying to perfectly silent. begins rubbing his chin and thinking, stop gone inward and is no longer listening While the customer is rubbing his chin, he through how he can buy your product, how he where he will put it, and so on. When his comes up, and you make eye contact with him, to buy has been made. such as, "How soon do you need Q UESTIONS ABOUT PRICE, TERMS, OR DELIVERY prospect asks you about price, "How much does this cost, exactly ? "How long does it take to get one of these Whenever the prospect asks you a question turn it into a closing question by asking did not mention. does this cost?" When the prospect say s, "By the end of Remember that the person who asks questions Always try to answer a question with a question. information and often close the sale. But control of the sales conversation. You: "How many did you want?" you've just made a sale. Any noticeable change in attitude, posture, decision is near. If the prospect sits up can test to be sure that this is a buying "By the way, how soon do you need this?" right away ?" "Would you prefer that we deliver this to Whenever you see a prospect changing his demeanor way, moving in his chair, brightening up, decision has been made and ask a question Why the Close Is Difficult the most difficult and stressful part of natural fear of rejection. We are to the way s we are treated by This begins with our parents and then transfers As adults, at an unconscious level, we are accepted by others. The possibility of rejection tremendous stress, and that we make every REJECTION IS NOT PERSONAL extremely nervous, an experienced my course. He said, "Remember, no not personal." is not personal." the prospect does not even All the prospect is doing is responding to where he is overwhelmed with people like, "I'm not interested," it on your ability or character. It is just a Fully one-third of salespeople drop out of deal with the rejection that is part and parcel however, continually remind themselves that don't let it bother them. The second reason closing is hard is because not succeeding. It is the fear of losing your money, of making an investment of energy and completely when the prospect decides not to The fear of failure, coupled with the fear people underachieve or fail in life. It is you begin to realize your full potential in Keep reminding yourself that there is no such feedback. When you try something that doesn't the valuable lesson you can learn, and then Some won't. So what? Next! Ralph Waldo Emerson once wrote, "Do the is certain." This is one of the most important The only way that you can eliminate a fear the thing that you fear. The death of fear Both courage and cowardice are habits. You confronting your fears and moving toward them fears and moving away from them, as most people "Courage is not absence of fear; it is control DO THE THING YOU FEAR fear of making calls. If you keep day, without really caring whether the way, you eventually reach the point at your fears of failure and rejection, this point, you will turn a corner in go up rapidly. along with the ability to face your life will improve. You will feel terrific will swell. And as you will improve on the outside. The fear of failure is also a major reason of making a mistake, of purchasing the wrong too much or of being criticized for making Every prospect has made buying mistakes in she wishes she hadn't. She has been left support or service, and sorry that she ever place. When you go to see a new prospect, you have prospect has had all these difficult and challenging must not only arouse buying desire for your the fears this prospect has, based on his How many times have you heard a prospect say, someone else before I make a decision"? have talked to their wives. Wives will husbands will approve. Managers will not to it. Many people cannot make a the approval and assurance from deal with the twin fears of failure Customers Become Comfortable inertia. If a person is comfortable is much easier for him to continue with get into a comfort zone. They You may have a cheaper or better offer are often not enough to get the things. or service to another, from one must emphasize all the additional of the benefits must be so great that different. You may have to and emphasizing the benefits and to finally make the transition. Another common obstacle to closing is the decision. Since the buying decision involves and limits the freedom and flexibility of nervous when it comes to making the final making an important commitment, they often "Leave it with me; let me think about it." closing, both on your part and on the confident, and professional at every move quickly through the close to the closing decision hanging in the air. In to say yes. Never tell the prospect that he is wrong. selling as a competition that you need to about your product or service, remain relaxed assessment of your product is incorrect. Instead Mr. Prospect. Many of our customers have had we have taken care of it." against his will, is of the same opinion with your brilliant response, the will still end up not buying. price or quality with your prospect, the objection to her satisfaction. part of your offering that she is USE TESTIMONIAL LETTERS to overcome objections and clients who had the same concern call these sweetheart letters. If you with the customer, go back and for you. You can even offer to write put it on his own letterhead. Never argue with him. And never look at win. objection that you get, such as high that say s something like this: When I first spoke to you about your product, price in comparison with other products available to go ahead anyway, and I am certainly glad higher price is more than justified by all we have experienced with your product since Sincerely, Show this to your prospect when the question often demolish her concerns. As a general rule, the prospect will discount product or service. After all, you are a salesperson. positively about what you are selling. your product, especially in statement. Third-party proof, in the form testimonial letters, is a powerful way to of what you are selling. This is why it is testimonial letters have skinny kids." A common error to avoid is expressing your a personal nature. The basic rule is to avoid Even if you feel strongly about one of these about the subject, make every effort to remain with the prospect's opinion, but don't own. Instead, gently bring the conversation by asking questions that relate to this area. Always Be Complimentary should do the opposite. If your and the prospect asks, "What reply positively. You could say, "Mr. have good products, and they have that our product is superior to them to you." You then concentrate on or service, but without saying When you speak positively about your positive way than someone who Don't Assume Authority authority that you don't have. It is is overselling your product, saying that do. lost a $10,000 sale with my of discussing the specifications if it could do two-sided copy ing. looked at the specifications more do double-sided copy ing. The understand what she was selling. Not enormous amount of credibility. Don't let More Obstacles to Closing expectations. These occur when particular prospect is not going to buy. attitude or his physical surroundings. May be the office or its leaps to the conclusion that this is not a to conclude the sale. s, "Whatever you expect, with prophecy." on the people around you. The whom you look up to and respect, well. Your expectations determine your you treat other people. The rule with regard to expectations is to people will like you. Look forward to people service. Anticipate people asking you tough to be successful more often than not. Incorporate into your sales activities, and people will You'll also make more sales. prejudging a prospect, you lose as that of someone who doesn't really to buy what you are selling. The fulfills your prophecy. He declines to Great Results from Small Beginnings services. He called on an industrial to find that the warehouse was fairly behind a desk in a small office off and no partitions. The building was Since my friend was already there, he confidently introduced himself to the one man who was business. He told the prospect that he was Their specialty was to find and place both industrial corporations. They had the ability technical employees, and draftspersons, as and bookkeepers. They focused on manufacturing DON'T PREJUDGE THE PROSPECT going on right now. I have just office. We are working on a major have anything firmed up as of y et. couple of weeks, I will be here. Please sometime in the future." of positive expectancy. He he was in that area, he would often he'd get the same answer. The of large contracts. well. He brought him information him on a regular basis and kept in One day he walked in and the prospect said, got a $50 million contract for design, engineering, going to have to hire seventy workers over He was ready. He made more than $200,000 in day s hiring and placing technical staff for that one contract than he was accustomed to Keeping a positive attitude toward prospective Keep Your Chin Up to closing. Nothing will kill a sale to care about making the sale in the first result of fatigue. You must really want to close sales. feel strongly that what you are You must be keen and eager and makes it clear to the prospect that Never forget, selling is hard work. It is interacting with customers can tire you out can be quite exhausted. five day s a week, you should go to bed shut down the house, and get to bed prior to every selling day. When you are than at any other time. You will be The Customer Comes First by a lack of sincerity. This often about earning the As soon as a salesperson begins to than as a person who needs help with language, and attitude change. Once commission, the prospect starts feeling like If you are going to sell five days a week, week. Turn off the television, shut down the eight full hours of sleep prior to every selling Prospects are very perceptive. They pick up salesperson. Prospects know when you are trying to make a sale that will help you. It is essential what you can do for your customer. The sale naturally. A common hindrance to closing arises when that is on a different wavelength from you. learned in sales was that "many people are prospects." you and the prospect; sometimes is anything wrong with either of you. Somehow the two of you don't get polite you are, you find it impossible Many people are prospects, but they are not Perhaps you are well educated, but you are You may be an analytical person who finds or results-oriented individual. May be you This happens more often than not. If you find yourself on a different wavelength personally. It will happen a lot. When it is save her for your company. where it is not possible, suggest someone in this area. Who could get along to each other. You will be amazed at how prospect to someone else with Practice Tag-Team Selling selling. No prospect is allowed to at least two salespeople. As soon as it off with a particular customer, he talk with someone else, whom he about this product than I do." to be a difference or conflict of like the salesperson, and the doesn't like the customer, which an older customer will not like a younger sold to by another woman. Be alert and the customer are not right for each other, LIKING IS ESSENTIAL can never sell to someone you don't about the prospect and sincerely want to or work, you will not be successful selling or how warmly you smile, something vibrations that the prospect will pick up. between you and a prospect, If you are in a retail environment, excuse else the prospect may like and you feel a lack of rapport, ask someone "who knows more than I In every case, get your ego out of the way. his problem or satisfy his need by finding the mark of the true professional. and resolved to make sure that to the last big obstacle, answering Action Exercises: your best customers have in with more people like them? at least three advantages these clear when your prospect 3. Overcome your fear of rejection by confronting again; the more you do this, the more you personal. the habit of doing whatever to fail, and it shall be. treat every prospect as if he has the of what you sell. customers; carry them with 7. Identify the major fears that your prospects buying, and then find a way to neutralize It is better to conquer yourself than to win yours. It cannot be taken from you, not by --Gautama Buddha 3 Victory becomes, to some degree, a state of Know ourselves superior to the anxieties, worries which obsess us, we are superior to --Basil King indicate you step-by -step toward closing the sale. is no interest. If there is no interest, In reality, successful sales have twice as The more objections you get, the more likely actually making the sale. There is a Law of Six that applies to objections. never more than six objections to any offering. there are never more than six. in the course of a week or a into a small number of categories. in a sentence completion "We could sell to every qualified didn't say . . ." a qualified prospect could give you to every question, criticism, or list, organize it by priority. What stand most in the way of your CLUSTER THE OBJECTIONS objections into categories. You may competitive objections, capability objections. Determine the clusters for into each of these clusters. It will Your job now is to develop a bulletproof answer objections. Determine exactly what your prospect objection to be removed as an obstacle to you need to do to eliminate your major objections, USE A TESTIMONIAL way s to eliminate objections is customers who shared that objection at customer's major concern is a potent INTERPRET IT AS A Q UESTION to deal with objections is for you to Treat it as a request for more a natural customer response to any When the prospect say s, "It costs too much," "That's a good question. Why does it seem pay ?" You then go on to answer the question If the prospect say s, "We can get it cheaper question. Why does it appear that our competitors GIVE A GOOD REASON treat it as if the customer is asking If the customer say s, "I can't afford really saying, "Show me how I can When a customer say s, "I have to talk it what the prospect means is, "Please give don't have to check and get someone else's MAKE IT EASY TO OBJECT do not want to get into an or service. They will be become upset or adamant. For this reason object by responding in a cheerful, Objections are not to be feared. Rather, they to sales success, the rungs on the ladder are those who have learned to deal with objections way. Compliment each objection when you hear it point; I'm glad you mentioned that." As compliment." When you compliment people questions about your product or service, you themselves. As a result, they feel more comfortable questions. But just like a trial lawyer, who know the answer to, never go into a sales the main objections you are going to hear. objections or questions about your about themselves. When you get an objection, hear it out completely. what the prospect is going to say. Often the you've heard before, but then will add her the end. Be patient. Practice your listening for clarification: "How do you mean?" the prospect that you were listening and that OBJECTION VERSUS CONDITION is an objection or a condition. An It is a problem for which there is a on the way to making the sale. for not going ahead. If a company is product or service. No matter how good it it impossible to proceed. If a person buying not possible. a prospect voices an objection, he He believes that because of this obstacle, seldom true. afford it" what does this mean? this moment, or that he cannot afford the price in one payment? That he cannot afford sometime in the future? When a person say with "How do you mean, exactly ?" One day an insurance salesman was introduced asked me a series of questions and then arranged second meeting, he presented me with a proposal insurance. I almost fell off my chair! afford it." to me that I would be unwise in to have less than one million dollars' I needed that amount, but I repeated, "I thousand dollars' premium available. Thank He said, "What if we structured it on a for $250 per month? Would that work out all surprised. At that time I had only heard of premiums. I had no idea that I could pay for was a genuine condition, a reason for not objection for which there was a logical and application form and purchased the insurance USE YOUR CREATIVITY are not aware of all the different way s or service, they are often convinced when you show them that there are options what you are selling. afford the monthly payments." You over three y ears instead of two, and Would you be able to handle that?" it out completely, ask the prospect "How do you mean?" is very helpful. behind the objection before you attempt may be answering the wrong concern BE POLITE AND RESPECTFUL and respect. Be low-keyed and a thousand times, always respond comment on your offering. care how much you know until their objections with warmth care about how they feel. As a result, and the product or service you THE FEEL, FELT, FOUND METHOD is to use the "feel, felt, found" the objection as being valid, in her concern, and then answering the For example, the prospect could say, "It saying, "Mrs. Prospect, I understand exactly way when we first spoke to them. But this explain that people with the same concern little more than they had expected to, they because they got so much more in value. other people have done with assure them that others have felt the and were happy with the this product would be good for them as USE IT WITH MANY OBJECTIONS great service, but then they don't many times"? you feel. Others felt the same way consideration in making a purchase like that we service and repair this item the afternoon during any business day. And there first thing in the morning." answer in the form of a testimonial or newspaper article attesting to the Be sure to ask, "Does this answer your question?" 1. UNSPOKEN OBJECTIONS an unspoken objection. The customer tell you anything. He or she nods and tell you where you are or how you are The solution to unspoken objections is to questions, lean forward, and listen intently prospect has an opportunity to answer your will tell you exactly what might be holding 2. EXCUSES, EXCUSES These are usually instinctive reactions "We're happy with our existing suppliers." have time to think about it. " "We are really not interested at the moment." serious. The best salespeople nod, control of the conversation. The very including excuses and impulse all right. Most people in your situation felt same way when I first called on them. But customers, and they recommend us to their This response immediately shifts the focus product and onto other satisfied customers. response you want: "Oh really ? What is 3. MALICIOUS OBJECTIONS you call on many different who are unhappy or angry about shout at their bosses or spouses, they take people tend to be negative in their product or compare it unfavorably to imply that you charge too much or quality. is to realize that you are not the problems of his own that have nothing to crossfire between him and other is to remain calm, confident, positive, on your part will soften the encourage him to open up to you. The fourth most common objection is a request type of objection for you to hear, because better than any other part of your presentation. the results or benefits she will can get them, you are moving into Use all your objection-handling skills. Welcome person for asking the question. Thank her completely, ending with, "Does that answer 5. SHOW-OFF OBJECTIONS objection. Sometimes prospects try to your product or service. They make questions about your product, When this happens, respond by taking the low are by how much the prospect already knows. prospect dominate the talking. Be conciliatory make a prospect feel important by listening more likely to warm up and buy from you. The sixth most common type of objections are These objections are aimed at you as a person. look like you are doing pretty well in this lot of money selling this product." it could be a sign that you are is attempting to bring you down a or behavior. your company, your product or a question. Start talking about the about what the customer wants and and the subjective objections will 7. OBJECTIVE OBJECTIONS objection. These are directed at your in terms of what it will do for the think that it will do the job that we not satisfactory for our needs." you can often get the sale. The very and other proof that make it clear that Assure the prospect that she will get the made it easier for her to buy from 8. GENERAL SALES RESISTANCE what we have called general beginning of a presentation. Until you the customer will be listening to you with closed mind. approach close. Say, "Mr. Prospect, relax. I'm not going to try to sell you some questions and see if there is some goals in a cost-effective way. When the prospect relaxes and gives you permission immediately begin your preselected open-ended and find out what he really needs that you 9. LAST-DITCH OBJECTIONS the last-ditch objection. You have sees how she would be better off understands what you are selling and of making a buying decision, but she "How do I know I'm getting my money 's sure this is the best deal I can get?" that yours is an excellent product or else who is using it today is very happy the last-ditch objection. After you answer an objection, you can often question: prefer?" to your home or to your office "Would you like delivery this week, or would Whatever answer she gives you to one of these then proceed to completing the paperwork and Sometimes the last-ditch objection is called overreact. And don't take it too seriously. question when they are buying one of these." The remaining-objections close is quite effective you have made your presentation, and the prospect clearly wants to enjoy the benefits that you don't know if I should get it now or if To elicit the remaining objections that are "Mr. Prospect, there seems to be some question hesitate about going ahead right now. Do you price?" Run these two questions together, question mark. The prospect now has to give it's the price," or "No, it's not Whatever he say s, acknowledge his concern an important consideration. And in addition might be causing you to hesitate about going SEEK OUT THE REAL REASON reluctant to tell you the real reason as he gives it to you and you answer it have no choice but to buy what you are For this reason, a prospect will hold back want to tell you what it is. He will sometimes but it is not the real reason that he is hesitating. you ask again, "And in that would cause you to hesitate from s, "No, that's the last reason." The reason he gives you in answer to this series objection: "I'm not sure that we can afford will actually do what you say it will." You then say, "Mr. Prospect, that is an that to your complete satisfaction, would Remain silent and wait for him to answer. you can answer that for me, I'm ready this question: "What would it take to wait silently for him to give you the At this stage of the sale, the prospect will could just do this or that," or "If I in You now have the closing condition, must convince him of to get the sale. You this objection to his complete PRICE OBJECTIONS after they have purchased a they asked a lot of questions about later and asked, "What was product [or service] rather than that of at all. want the lowest price for a product product or service. What customers want a reasonable price, a competitive price, What we have found is that customers do not service unless it is identical to another a a reasonable price, a competitive price, but The reason is because every customer has tried lower-priced item but ended up getting exactly service was cheap, and the customer was disappointed. down, or the buyer couldn't get it serviced. more on higher quality than lower price. At the same time, no customer wants to leave wants to find that she paid more than was who bought the same product or service. We know that the lowest price often comes with anticipated. price, you should look the prospect in a good deal. "Ms. Prospect, this is an deal. When you consider everything to be very happy with this The Just-Suppose Close prospect say s, "I'm sorry, I like our entire budget." that that was not a problem. Is there about going ahead right now?" has to say, "No, that's the only reason," Whenever you say, "Well, just suppose that's deal with that to your complete satisfaction; to you conclusively," you can usually uncover condition. by another $100." request and get it out for you by "Just suppose we could deliver this next next budget period. Would that work for you?" You use the sharp-angle close to turn an objection Sometimes it is called the bear trap close effective when the customer has almost run The prospect say s, "I can't afford the You reply, "If we could spread the payments down below $400 per month, would you take The prospect might say, "Your product won't You respond, "If we could demonstrate to guarantee on that, would you take it?" the objection as a reason for buying. GET THE COMMITMENT FIRST of hearing this final objection to see if they can solve it. The me, but I would need it by the end of next Instead of saying, "Let me get back to the faster," say, "If we could get it for With the sharp-angle close, the prospect has if you can answer his final condition, or hesitating about going ahead. can get you pretty much the same thing for to say, "Well, if I can get pretty much same thing at a lower price, I'll take it." You can use the instant-reverse close in a use and very effective. You can use it on can use it on both clients and prospects. his income in less than one y ear when he seminars. at all, especially a standard, well used you answer, "Mrs. Prospect, that's This always grabs the prospect's attention you mean?" This gives you a few seconds to think up a The prospect say s, "It's too expensive." why you should take it." You say, "Ms. Prospect, you want to get you?" "And you want to get the very best quality "Well, yes," say s the prospect. of these someday any way, aren't you?" "Ms. Prospect, that's exactly why you you'll never get a better combination of Why don't you take it?" One of my clients was with a cable TV company door to door. The team went out and tripled technique. The salesperson would knock on getting Pay Television?" The prospect would afford it." why you should take it, Mr. Prospect, The door, which was beginning to close, would would say, "What do you mean?" a satellite dish was that, up to now, he it. The salesperson would say, "Mr. ever going to have Pay TV, with programs, and so on, in your home for your The prospect would say, "Well, yes, someday "Then that's exactly why you should take special promotion, you can get it cheaper hookup fee, and you won't have to start fact that you don't feel that you can afford today." Homeowners signed up by the hundreds. Sometimes you can use the instant-reverse you call up and ask a question aimed at the Or you can ask a question about your product prospect. The prospect mechanically responds, reply by saying, "Mrs. Prospect, I didn't why I'm calling you." You say, "Mrs. Prospect, most people using when we first contacted them. The ones who be the most satisfied with what our product not interested, it could mean that this product I'd like to get together with you for about and you can decide for yourself. When would Always offer general time periods rather than appointment. "Would you be available sometime would Wednesday afternoon be better for you?" agree to see you on Tuesday morning or sometime and flexible. A multimillionaire friend of mine who started lectures to introduce people to his three-day, would point out that no one ever got rich were several routes to wealth that a person them. would stand up and say, "Well, I it." he would be stumped by this response. would say, "Sir, that is exactly why you By now, Everyone in the audience was interested say. H e would then ask, "May I ask, how high school?" or "Twenty y ears." costs $495 for two day s, and it is me that you have been out of school and still can't afford $495? That is exactly to this seminar to learn how to have to stand up and say this in a IRRESISTIBLE LOGIC irresistible. Everyone in the they could not afford to attend the working for y ears and they were still If they didn't take this seminar, which be broke ten y ears from now. At the end of his seminar. you don't have to have a great "That's exactly why you should It is to get him to wake up suddenly The Change-Places Close you have not been able to uncover close. It is especially effective when answer. a friendly relationship, given your tell you what he is thinking. You say, "Ms. minute. Put yourself in my situation and talking to someone whom you and y et she won't make a decision a reason why. What would you do or Very often, the prospect will identify with you're saying. This is my real concern . . ." She she is hesitating about going ahead with your OFFER A POSSIBLE OBJECTION then you say, "We're really talking about The prospect will have to then say either, something else." the money," pause and then ask, "Then Eventually the prospect will say, "Well, You then respond, "Ms. Prospect, if we could complete satisfaction, would you be prepared If the prospect agrees, you have made the Welcome Objections part of any sales conversation. We've and services that were disappointing. Your job is to be patient, polite, intently to the answers. If you are will tell you why he might be answer his question and close the sale. 1. Make a list of every objection that a qualified not buy what you are selling. never more than six, and then one. interested prospects buy your 4. Determine the one thing that a prospect and buy your product or service; concentrate will get this key benefit. more information, as a need for 6. Hear the prospect out completely each time practice all your listening skills. to Everyone I spoke to as long as he Perpetual pushing and assurance put a difficulty seeming difficulty give way. 4 The greatest thing in this world is not so we are, but in which direction we are moving. SELLING IS NOT EASY. EVERY DAY YOU MUST BE prospecting, identifying needs, making presentations, closing the sale. It is hard, hard work. especially closing the the more quickly you will reach the Preparing to Ask for the Order that the prospect is ready. Ask a lingering queries or objections: "Does If the prospect say s, "Yes, this makes do you need it?" your sales presentation is, "Mr. that I haven't covered?" When the prospect say s no, he means a closing question. One of the best closing techniques you can sometimes called the part-by-part close, or involves a series of questions, each of which requiring a "yes" answer. along, the encyclopedia sales ascending close sales methods ever selling encyclopedias went on to in other fields with this method and CAREFULLY CRAFTED Q UESTIONS psychologists sat down for six presentation, word for word. They research and the labor necessary presentation consisted of forty -two The questions would start from the most general question would more narrowly qualify the prospect to buy. the door of the home, either cold calling he would say was, "Hello, do It seems like a simple question, but it helped determine whether or not he should proceed who answered the door was merely a visitor, person who actually lived in the apartment ASK EASY Q UESTIONS a survey in this neighborhood for ask you a couple of questions?" yes. People love to give their The salesperson would then ask, "Do you education?" once more. The salesperson has you live here? Would you answer a couple in the value of higher education?" "May I sit down?" Answer: "Yes." we will be placing a set of neighborhood at no charge. Would ?" likes the idea of getting The salesperson would say, "We don't sell place them in your living room so that when ask where you got them, you tell them that us, so that we can come by and show them how for their homes as well. Would you do that?" EACH Q UESTION IN ORDER through forty -two questions, each of to proceed. If ever the prospect to an end. off with the offer of a free set of the prospect would have purchased a the y ear book for ten y ears, and sports and children's encyclopedias. He signed a one-y ear payment plan, books that he would soon have THE POWER OF YES is so effective is that it is based on When you ask a series of six or more questions the prospect will thereafter nod and agree If you can ask six "yes" questions at very hard for a normal person to say no later If you can ask six "yes" questions at becomes very hard for a normal person to say questions that require a "yes" answer offers, the prospect will often be completely of your offer. You can often ask the same question with slightly "Mrs. Prospect, would you like to increase "Are you interested in cutting your costs?" "Would you like to operate your business "Would you like to get more done in less "Would you be interested in a cost-effective itself over time?" Answer: "Yes." right away ?" Answer: "Yes." When the prospect say s yes six times in a almost anything you say, even if the questions differently : "Would you like to earn the highest return "Would you like to earn a much higher return account or money market fund?" is the favorite investment vehicle for yourself?" these benefits, would you want to get Every time you ask a question, the interest increases the desire for what you are selling. you are throwing fuel on the fire and intensifying CHOOSE YOUR WORDS CAREFULLY desire. It is like throwing water on you structure each question so that the only affirmative. They must answer yes. close is one of the most It is used successfully to sell investments, products, software, computers, Even vacuum cleaners and home presentation. from the general to the to the next, the prospect's buying desire he will burst out with, "I'll take it. do I sign?" Each time you describe a benefit in a sales increases. Here is an example. Imagine a friend to you. I went to. First of all, the food is the prices are very reasonable. The and a pianist in the main dining is a really nice guy, and every one, owned the restaurant. There is lots of free it's not even crowded y et, because not many people know about it." features of the restaurant, your desire dramatically. Soon you can hardly wait to DESCRIBE THE BENEFITS product or service to your eventually the prospect reaches the this?" presentation, the faster a little work to design and perfect such a it is almost irresistible. The invitational close is one of the most selling. At the end of your sales presentation, buy what you have just described. "Do you like what I have shown you so When the prospect say s, "Yes, it looks invitational close and ask, "Well then, When you encourage a person to "give it to product are often at least willing to him an invitation. Occasionally, when you say, "Why don't think of a reason that might be causing her the objection clearly, and ask, "Does that ask her to buy once more. you give us a try?" When you use the your entire organization will wrap its arms he or she is satisfied. you give us a try ?" When you use your entire organization will wrap its that he or she is satisfied. a car or a refrigerator, you can use the you take it?" or "Why don't you buy JUST ASK "I'm not sure, may be I should wait until it; let me think it over," you can say, know all that. But it's a superior product it?" be amazed at how many customers by this time. They are just waiting for When you do, they are almost right, I'll take it." Some of the standard invitational closing "When would you like delivery ?" "Would you like to have this sent to your "Which color would you prefer?" "When would you like to get started?" In every case, when you use an invitational and go along with you while you wrap up the you are prepared to answer with something By using the invitational close, you keep you in a rush, or would Tuesday be all right?" would be good," you have made the sale. We talked before about price resistance. Everyone These price concerns often go back to early surrounding money that you have dealt with price is seldom the reason for buying or not important, but there is almost always something POINTS TO REMEMBER ABOUT PRICE the price the first time it comes too much, more than the prospect is either because the prospect had no idea budgeted for it. weekend seminar. From the stage, I five per person." Many people went us later and said they wanted to go weekend, all inclusive. Instead of 495 about four dollars and ninety-five cents. They had no idea how much it cost to put or convention center, and as a result, price. This is quite common. anyone has is limited. When you give other things that the prospect could buy the principle of the excluded of something else. For everything cannot buy. highly. When you buy choice. You limit your options because available. This is why, when price say, "I can't afford it." product is going to cost, he will be deal of time building the value of price for the first time. Willingness to pay and ability to pay are to pay any price that you ask. No one cut off her options. different issue. Most people can enough. Your goal is to increase the Repeating and emphasizing the your product or service will wants what you are selling, the less Convince the prospect that the value of your She must be fully persuaded that the advantages than the money you are asking. can possibly avoid it. Instead, talk later, it will not seem as high. is a fundamental rule in selling. If you has decided that he wants to own and interest, and the conversation will be Often the prospect will ask at the beginning is it?" At this stage, he has no earthly understanding of the features and benefits would be by owning what you sell. If you give these things, he will have nothing to relate most important issue in the conversation, too LOSING THE SALE price, and I will tell you if I am the information process and shorten the now, you will kill the sale. no clue what he gets for the of the prospect, all alone, before you it, the prospect has no choice but to say SIDESTEP THE PRICE Q UESTION that there is an expression that is It is the words how much is it, is it?" price just to get the prospect to listen to not interested." Slam! And she would I soon learned that if I gave the price before presentation, I would not even get to first way of handling this question on the phone. prospect. I would reply cheerily. "If it is not just for you, there's no charge." I would then say, "Ms. Prospect, what I'm right for you, you are not going to take it, The prospect would say, "No, I'm not." take it, then there's no charge." Well then, what is it?" about. I just need ten minutes of your time; have something I have to show you." I would face-to-face appointment with the prospect. There is a reason that people ask for the money is the common denominator in our society. be the dollar, the euro, or the franc, is to they cost. The cost tells us where We ask the price so that we can fit a of experience. It is because Everyone can denominator in our society. It affects of anything is just like commenting if it arises too early in the sales THE REASON FOR PRICE RESISTANCE that you have not given him enough For this reason, never argue about or "reasonable" or "fair," or anything price, agree. Then go on to say is definitely not cheap. However, there does. Let me explain to you why we reasons why thousands of people like compared it with our competitors, and knew they could get something similar are?" If you charge a high price, be proud of it. expensive!" you say, "Yes, Mr. Prospect. of this product in this market. And we are before. Would you like to know why so many using our services even though we charge more?" and a chance to explain why your product or DIMINISHING PRICE RESISTANCE into a swanky retail store or the price tag is $800. She say s, "My, that's lot of money." this is an expensive dress. It's a St. they charge so much for this. First of all, is made from the finest materials, hand stitched, lining. When you wear it, you feel as if you dressed women in America. It holds its value. You can wear it y ear after y ear, and it $800." that a particular product is as as her buying desire increases. of dollars of high-fashion clothes are sold value rather than price. Always justify the price with sound reasons. much as it does. Never discuss price without your offering at the same time. Let me reemphasize: do not bring up price any conditions. When a prospect say s, "Well, is it?" you reply, "Good question. Can price is the best part. I'm going to come to I do, may I ask you a couple of and take control of the sales conversation. In my sales presentations, I always have a for the first time. By that point in the conversation, what I am selling and why it is the best choice say, "I'll bet you would like to know You must increase her buying desire by emphasizing increase buying desire by arguing about the But price does not come up until that point. is appropriate to bring it up. If the price To reduce price sensitivity, continually focus received rather than on the money charged. the customer instead of its cost. When the time has finally come to address tell a prospect a certain number of dollars. sandwich close. two descriptions of the value this product. For example, "This plus these attachments, a supply of warranty, will cost you X number of Not only that, we provide complete we are sure that you are getting In this case, you are sandwiching the price customer benefits. This descriptions of benefits value she receives rather than its cost. buying desire reduces price you are selling, the less concerned her buying desire by emphasizing buying desire by arguing about the price. You can minimize price resistance by comparing articles. When a prospect say s, "It costs "Compared with what, Mr. Prospect?" Often about. He knows nothing of your product, or have never bought one of your products, or He doesn't realize that prices may have purchase. prospect could say, "Well, compared You reply, "As it happens, ABC's product, certain features and benefits, costs $275 here's their recent price sheet." Show does make sales. Give the prospect the evidence proceeding with your offer. It's essential that you find out what prospects instance, if you say, "This Mercedes costs a lot," you then ask, "Compared with what?" Mercedes to a Honda, yes, your Mercedes costs distinct reasons a Mercedes is more expensive know what they are?" to oranges. Find out what your and the reasons for any price When a prospect say s, "That seems awfully Prospect, here are our major competitors. this is what they are asking for them. You other suppliers, our products are very fairly Stretch It over the Life of the Product the price over the life of the tag is too high, you can point out that it but your machine has a five-y ear "Even though you pay $300 more," you can per y ear, which is about $2 a month more benefits, and accessories that are built into cents a day, for you to have the best product Business Is Bad Even in boom times, folks complain and that they don't have enough cash. times in business, people become is. When business is booming, even though their complaints are no When a prospect say s that she cannot buy simply means that you haven't given her aroused enough buying desire. Keep focusing product, of what it does for your prospect, Intensified buying desire reduces price sensitivity. Sometimes prospects will say they are "short "What if we could offer you terms, and you period of time?" Or try these: as a trade so that you need no cash "What if we could delay payments until your "What if we could extend payments over a three year period, thereby lowering the monthly When the prospect brightens up and becomes means that he is capable of buying; he is This is where you use your creativity at its Buying a Mercedes my age driving a silver-grey blue leather upholstery. From that such a beautiful car. In the middle of the conversation, the perfect car for you. Come over here and window was a silver-gray in every respect. But my first I'm not in the market. I can't afford It costs too much. It looks great, but it's FIND A WAY TO MAKE IT WORK in car sales. He was a consummate It may be the wrong car for you at this car as a trade-in so that there would away in that car?" I said, "I couldn't afford it." the whole purchase for you?" replied, "I can't afford that much He replied, "Because this is a Mercedes, over five y ears rather than three. Could I never had a chance. They took my car in They financed the balance of the cost through the payments over five y ears. Because I bought able to write off the interest and depreciation. Mercedes came out to only $125 per month. ever owned. make a deal work if the prospect wants Once your prospect has what you are selling, find way s to Dealing with Budget Limitations limitations." The prospect say s, is all used up." We will sell you the product now, but budget period. How does that sound?" almost without fail agree. As an alternative, minimal down payment, or offer a or even try to get the customer's budget Find a way. From time to time, when the price is above say, "That's more than we expected to Here is how you respond. First, you ask, "Mr. something for nothing?" for nothing. get anything cheap that turned out to Again, after a few seconds, he will concede that turned out to be of any value. it true that you always get pretty much what Never forget that, in the eyes of a customer, Just because you say something is true does the prospect. then say, "Mr. Prospect, this is a great We are selling this product for the in business. If you want a great-quality and do the job for you, sometimes you have the money you need. Isn't that true?" Never forget that, in the eyes of a customer, proof. Just because you say something is true mind of the prospect. You know that you would that. Customers are accustomed to believing your product and that you will even exaggerate that's what it takes to get the sale. competitively priced," it doesn't comparison from a recent newspaper competitor, this is accepted as valid When you say, "You'll be very happy with "Yes, I'm sure I would." But she will your statement with a testimonial letter from letter is considered conclusive proof. You can reduce price resistance by breaking common denominator. Compare the price of your of coffee. Some people compare their products beer per week. Some compare it with a dinner your price to something that your prospect The Ultimatum Close when prospects procrastinate on the with customers who drag their feet. no. They are "thinking about it." They talking it over with someone. They are reviewing on. invested many hours in calling want to lose your entire investment, but earning any commissions. What do In this case, you can use the ultimatum close. the trail close or the sudden death close. process and resolve the sale, one way or the FISH OR CUT BAIT sales contract, exactly the way you have and tell him that you need to see him been there so many times that he will When you sit down with the prospect, look "Mr. Prospect, I have given this a lot of you, or it's not. But one way or another, you say ? the way we've discussed it, and if you'll authorize it, we can get started on it right You take the completed sales contract, put your pen on top of the contract, and push perfectly silent and wait. technique, 59 percent of prospects look back at the contract, and eventually 41 percent of prospects will go through the not to buy. But in either case, you your sales career. Sometimes the best answer when a prospect to pay," is, "Mr. Prospect, how far apart Or you can ask, "Mr. Prospect, what do we tell me the very most you can afford to pay, another, whether or not we can make this work." sale could be just within your reach. around in the customer's mind. Often, than the number that they have A SMALL DIFFERENCE He was invited to submit a for a new home. The contractor possible. The landscape architect put together a very tight proposal. He contractor and put in his bid for $7,025. up and said, "Absolutely not! expected to pay." He rejected the proposal slammed down the phone. to go to the phone, call the we?" this. He came back with a big smile $7,000 for this job. My student adjusted the size of a couple of the got the contract the next day. We've already mentioned the customer's conversation. He say s, "Just tell me how interested." is price your only concern? Are you as important as this solely on the When you put it like this, almost all prospects You continue with, "I know price is important guarantees, warranties, delivery, and follow-up give you the lowest price, but we can give today, of which price is only a part. How Your willingness and ability to ask for the open every door for you. Your readiness to opportunity will move you into the top 10 answering objections and closing sales are and perfect with time and practice. 1. Make a list of all the variations you get answer for each one so that you are ready 2. Stretch the price of what you sell over what does it cost per day, and what else costs 3. Select a prospect you have seen several or no answer; go back to him or her and tryout 4. Determine the key benefits that your customer product, and then think of way s to emphasize resistance occurs. for what you sell; write out a series from the general to the 6. Be prepared to back up everything you say objections; refuse to rely on positive assertions discount. objections that block the sale; there Patience and perseverance have a magical effect and obstacles vanish. 5 The operative assumption is that someone, operative compulsion is to find out who has action fast. IN GOLF THERE IS A SAYING: "YOU DRIVE FOR dough." present solutions, and answer selling. But it is only when you can step the plate, ask for the order, and close the Throughout sales history, merchants have used customer make a buying decision. The closing up to now, and those to come, are some of powerful closing techniques ever developed. and determine how you can use each one to services. variety of recipes for different dishes, of closing techniques. You should be able ask for the order at least ten different way are selling to and the kind of objections The Secondary Close use and well-liked, involves your If the prospect agrees to the to buy the entire offer. a car, a refrigerator, a stove, or close by asking, "Would you The color is a secondary issue. The purchase say s that he would prefer it in blue, he ASK ABOUT DELIVERY to ask, "Would you like this delivered, ?" issue. But by saying that he the decision to buy. Professional salespeople do the sales process. The secondary close of indecision and stress that the prospect focused on a prospect to make a buying decision. OFFER A CHOICE and cannot make up his mind, you with the factory tires, or would you If the prospect say s, "I would want the You then say, "Well then, let's get this that Once the pressure of the buying decision has focusing the prospect on the secondary issue, details. The alternative close is also helpful in overcoming decision. You can use it in a variety of way between something and something else, rather and nothing. They prefer to have choices rather and asking, "Would you like to the same product. one?" medium size?" Whichever the prospect chooses, he has made OFFER PAYMENT OR DELIVERY CHOICES present an alternative method of refrigerator, and the refrigerator only this week, or could we deliver it is still being offered a choice. a life insurance policy, you could ask, to your home address or to your Whichever the customer chooses, the sale is The Assumption Close maintain control of the sales process. as, "Does this make sense to you so If the prospect say s, "Yes, that sounds prospect has said yes to the sale. This is just said, "I'll take it. What is the "Well then, the next step is this . . ." Go happens now. Take out your purchase order, filling it out. "I will need your OK on and we will have this out to you by next Wednesday. prospect will almost always agree with you up the transaction quickly. The power of the assumption close is that transaction. Once you've said, "Then the plan of action, the prospect has to either objection, which you are quite prepared to This is often called selling past the sale. further, you begin talking about ownership prospect's attention toward taking possession that time. The prospect's focus is taken on payment and delivery. One way to sell past the sale is by asking, ask, "Would you like to pay for this with gives the prospect a chance to say yes to you to close the sale smoothly. A simple way to use the assumption close at pulling out your pen, glancing briefly at correct mailing address?" Then pose over down. that the conclusion is very carefully not simply "happen" toward the end of show. It is deliberately designed for maximum By the same token, you must plan your method you come to the close, you must know exactly just switch into the close exactly as you down the street. The take-away close is a powerful way of getting make a decision. It is a variation of the "assumption close." and obviously likes your offer, halt the presentation and further, let me check and make sure that warehouse." "Let me check and make sure that we When you come to the close, you must know then just switch into the close exactly as drove down the street. or go back into the stockroom they have the right size or color, she has that the item is available, out the order form. A variation of the take-away close is when and say, "Let me check with my manager and delivery. Can you wait here for a second?" the decision is already made. "Why don't you come with can't . . ." If the prospect gets up and SHOPPING FOR CLOTHES the time, especially when they are at an article of clothing, but can't seem other. The salesperson then say s, "Just minute. Before we go any further, let me check size." salesperson will often say, "We are Let me check and make sure we can you wait here for a second?" she has made up her mind to buy the THE TAKE-AWAY TRIGGERS ACTION economy was soft, and the number price range was limited. I was asking I got an offer for $240,000. The prospective house at a lower price because of the softness Just before I had to make a decision on whether another prospective buyer appeared. Before client said that if he liked it, he would We went back to the first purchaser and made told him that we had a second buyer coming did not agree to the counteroffer, we would at the higher offer that we expected to get. house, the first prospective buyer It turned out later that the second buyer thought of losing the sale, having it taken his offer and closing the deal. This sort Sometimes people do not know how much they suggest that they may not be able to get it. take it away that they step up and make a Sometimes people do not know how much they you suggest that they may not be able to get threaten to take it away that they step up The Summary Close included in your offering, you can you get to the end of your sales a lot of information. Let me just then you can make a decision one Remember, features arouse interest, but benefits time you repeat a benefit that is meaningful heightens. If you describe enough benefits, desire shoots up, often to the point where it. To use the summary close, go through each and repeat what the customer gets with each and point out the benefit that the customer product or service grows. make up a list, in advance, of the and rank them in order of importance. order. Watch the prospect for the one interest to him, and then emphasize them At the end of the summary close, the prospect's You then ask, "Have I covered everything?" sale by asking, "How soon would The Puppy -Dog Close techniques. It is used to sell billions It is based on letting the prospect touch, service. developed by pet shop reluctant parents. For a variety of reasons, many parents do not want to the dog will poop, pee, shed, gnaw, bark, parents love their children. fixated on the idea of getting a dog. over and over, until the parents store, just to "take a look." He shows a variety of puppies to a particular puppy, and the parents are "Why don't you take the puppy home for weekend? If you don't like the puppy, you refund." will lose interest in the puppy by the home. In many cases, they turn out to puppy--but the parents fall in love with By Sunday night, they want the puppy more LET THEM TRY IT OUT encourage the prospect to take the Some companies today are a new car. They promise that if the buyer day s, he can bring it back for a full refund. after the exclusive Xerox strategy. Their salespeople one of their copiers for a one-month free owner was not happy with the copier, On the other hand, if she liked the lease, with great prices, a tremendous and benefits that she was not currently One company I worked with had literally hundreds no time at all, they dominated the copier enjoy able to use that, once people had tried fighting to keep them and to get rid of whatever LOWER THEIR NATURAL RESISTANCE or service. But at the same time, and they like it, they quickly become comfortable with it, it is it than it is for them to discontinue it. or service, one that brings about them try it out. When you allow prospects often make the sale easier than you OFFER A FREE TRIAL hundred units for rent. Many garages, but they have never thought of into a self-storage unit. To counter move all their excess possessions out unit a few blocks away for satisfied, they can came and get all of their do you think happens? or service, one that brings about high try it out. the convenience of cleaning out and moving all their seldom-used materials go through the time and trouble of quickly begin to see the self-storage apartments. It becomes like an can store things that they hardly ever business is booming puppy -dog close. This is one of the oldest closing techniques American statesman, inventor, and diplomat The reason it is popular is because it is way your mind makes a major decision of any Unless you are acting emotionally and impulsively, decision, you think it through point by point. decision, the positives and negatives. You compare them against the reasons for not buying. weigh and balance the evidence and make your The Ben Franklin close does exactly this. you can say something like, "Mr. Prospect, decision with regard to this product, don't "Yes, of course I do." You say, "Well, let's use the method that make an important decision. As you know, he of his time, the first self-made millionaire inventors, politicians, and scholars of the "What Ben Franklin would do to make a decision paper [you do this as you are talking] and On one side, he would write all the reasons side, he would write all the reasons opposed You then take the piece of paper and write column and "Reasons Against" at the top Now say, "Let's look at some of the reasons for you." Then you write down the most attractive service and remind the prospect of the benefit feature. "Do you agree?" and again remind the prospect Once you get his acknowledgment, go on to until you have written down as many as ten buy this product or service. When the prospect answers, "Yes, it looks then give the page over to him and say, "Now, might argue against your going ahead with The prospect may say, "Well, let me think. write down the price. Meanwhile, you wait prospect figure out all the reasons against Most prospects can only think of two or three then compare these reasons with the ten reasons immediately. When the prospect can no longer to the decision, you can say, "Well, it The prospect will often look at the two lists Finish with, "Why don't we get started SIMPLE BUT POWERFUL on an airplane. He is a very agent. He told me that he had involving a trade for cash, land, institution and a real estate on this transaction with the vice to get him to come to a conclusion. and said, "Why don't we use the Ben He said he was surprised that the vice president out a sheet of paper, drew the line down the features and benefits in favor of this offering, He then asked the vice president, the decision reasons. As expected, the vice president could why they shouldn't go ahead with the transaction. vice president compared the two lists, looked said, "Let's do it!" And the deal was The agent told me, "Brian, I had heard about but I thought it was a bit corny, so I never my commissions on that sale were more than y ear. It was quite amazing." This is a fast and effective way to close involved. There are different variations of especially if it is relevant to the product The first variation occurs when you have spoken product, and he fully understands what he then take out an order sheet or sales contract prospect whether or not he wants to buy. "By might ask as you glance at the buyer, or "What If the prospect gives you today 's date bag. But sometimes the prospect will stop you by decided to buy this y et." have a terrible memory for details, and I If you decide not to go ahead today, order form away. OK?" You then continue Each time the prospect gives you another detail, as if you are trying to keep track of the become accustomed to seeing you write down written makes the order sheet more personalized starts to identify with the order sheet, seeing preferences. The more information the prospect the more committed he becomes to buying Once the order sheet is complete, look up the correct spelling of your last name?" of his last name, "J-O-N-E-S," his for his first name and middle initial, his his telephone number. The sale is made. The more information the prospect the more committed he becomes to the conversation. to sell hundreds of thousands of dollars' I've always been astonished at how see. You will be as amazed as well. Another variation of the order-sheet close ask all of the pertinent questions so that wants or needs. Then you present your product Finally, you ask your confirming question: concerns that I haven't covered?" have covered everything," take out the top, and begin filling out the details, for permission. Act exactly as if the no offering. Nobel Prize-winning research has been done laterality." This is an academic way of and a right "brain," each having completely example, is used to process details in a linear The right brain, on the other hand, integrates pictures, music, and stories. All buying decisions this is what you must appeal to. the decision-making side of the customer who bought your product or a prospect hears a story about to be in the same situation as that similar results. And this is exactly All buying decisions are made by the right Prospects will forget all the data, features, service within twenty -four hours, but they happy customers for weeks, months, and even possible. One of the best techniques that I have found "By the way," you say, "this reminds from XYZ Company. Just last week, she told about our high price before she bought this additional benefits she got from a slightly the difference in cost." about how satisfied people are Since the deepest human motivation other happy customers, you trigger prospect to become a happy customer as TELL A SAD STORY agents in the country, uses this the prospect seems to be resistant to copy of a document describing what with a net worth of $1.5 million. By the time taxes were paid his company had to be sold at a bargain basement of money left over was gone, to move in with her grown children as have social security. very interested in finding out did not happen to him and his wife. HEROES AND VILLAINS that you can use. This is the story of or even worse, bought a similar You tell what happened to that buyer his purchase. Make sure to add that this really regrets not buyingfrom you. a positive buying decision. Relevant stories should be part of your sales memorizes a series of humorous stories and salesperson should memorize a series of relevant your sales conversation and use to counter end of your presentation. One relevant story prospect into an enthusiastic buyer of your The Walk-Away Close hear in selling anything is, "Let me You can often save the sale by using a walk-away Let's say the prospect say s, "Well, I'd available before I make a decision." You a been doing business here for many y ears. who come from referrals from other all over town before they You can go out and check other prices, You're probably going to end up back right now? We can wrap it up for it out to you tomorrow morning." What we have found is that a buying decision unsolved in a customer's mind. It is a source you help a customer make a buying decision his tension, and free him to get on with other In follow-up interviews with customers, researchers decide to buy something, it drops off their thinking about other parts of their life and soon as it is made. them to make the buying are offering to save the prospect all expend to talk with other suppliers and Remember, logic does make sales. If you give from you immediately, you can often stop him THE TODAY-ONLY CLOSE I still really think I should go and check, the best deal," you can use a variation the walk-away close called the today-only You say, "Mrs. Prospect, I'll tell you and if you will just take it today, I will on this item." sale. often have to give her a reason, an that this is your last item or that you tomorrow, or that this is the last day of sales contest, and if she buy s it today, you now. added incentive, or a "kicker," is only the very end of the sales conversation. If that, it will have little or no impact on include your incentive as part of the more to get the sale. Save it until the last EXTRACT A PROMISE is what you use when the prospect is products and prices before he makes a concede, and instead of arguing, you "Mr. Prospect, I understand exactly how and check prices at other places. But I want you make a final decision, come back and talk in town." doubt in the prospect's mind. By at the end of his shopping trip, you are before he makes an absolute REFUSE TO SHOW YOUR CARDS very best deal that you can give me?" are going to go and look around. By checked out our competitors, and only best deal in town." to place, demanding to know seller, and finally, bring them all back TWO WAYS TO CLOSE THE SALE you the best deals that he can the sale. First, if you can beat the others a few dollars less than the best price he it, take out your order sheet, ask for the filling it out. If it happens that you deflect the customer's attention delivery, warranties, and follow-up "Mr. Prospect, the best deal for you is of several factors. Here is what we makes this a better deal for you ASK FOR THE SALE close to repeat the benefits that to him than simply a lower be a little higher than one of our for you, all things considered." around and looking for the best price. a solution. If you give him a than likely go ahead. All that is don't you take it?" Every now and then, when a prospect asks you him so he can think about it, there is nothing a hidden objection, and he won't tell you or insisting, you gracefully concede and prepare thank you very much for your time. I know a little bit later, and perhaps we can talk GET HIM TO RELAX agree. The pressure is off. He is that you are leaving. He is already to do when you are out of sight. getting back to work, his sales when the bell rings at the end of the Close your briefcase, stand up, shake hands for his time, and turn to go. But as you reach knob, turn around and say these words: "Mr. you one question?" tried to present my product and I feel like I've somehow done if you'd just tell me this: What was the The prospect, who is now relaxed and happy, when you leave, may then say, "Well, now buy was this . . ." Whatever reason he gives you, this is the holding him back from buying. Once you know answer that objection to his satisfaction You say, "Mr. Prospect, thank you. That's to you properly. Let me show you what we can You take your hand off the doorknob, walk will take just one more second," and you For example, if he say s, "Well, the reason not really convinced that your machine will require," you say, "Mr. Prospect, you we have a warranty that covers exactly that guarantee of satisfaction, would you be prepared Once you have the final objection, answer Only now, there is no more sales resistance. and will often buy if you give him one more FLYING HIGH a young man came up to me and sale of my career. I made a $2,000 before I used your lost-sale close." and the prospect would not put my hand on the doorknob, I turned to him and asked him, 'Mr. real reason you decided not to buy sat back down, opened my briefcase, and to buy. I earned two grand from a sale using that closing technique." One of the fastest way s to increase your develop a series of way s to get referrals customers. A referral is worth ten to fifteen takes one-tenth to one-fifteenth the time than it takes to start cold-calling and finding A referral is worth ten to fifteen times a The key issue in selling is credibility. When the credibility of the person referring you. credibility from the ground up, you walk in recommended you. The key to getting referrals is being referable. referrals is that the customer is not convinced friend or colleague. When you treat your customers quality and service, they will feel more comfortable people that they know. When you are polite, every time, people will want to share you ASK EVERYONE occasion, after every sales call and You can even ask for referrals in advance I am going to show you something that I think not this is the right thing for you at this give me the names of two or three other people When you ask for referrals in this way, in If your product or service is attractive and obligated to give you the names of two or presentation, whether she buy s or not. The MOVE FAST ON REFERRALS After you have spoken to the referral. Call the person who gave you speak in a complimentary way not. always wrap up your you happen to know two or three also talk to?" If the referral turns into a sale, think about referral. If you earn a substantial commission fruit basket with a personal note thanking Call back a couple of day s later to ensure person you call will always be delighted at will thank you profusely. Take this opportunity people" on whom you could call. Finally, send thank-you notes to each person thank-you notes to the people to whom they occasion, and always include your business send out, the better the reputation you build you become. within a few months of implementing to prospect. They have so many day long following up on them. steps, you will find yourself all directions. A good friend of mine, one of the highest-paid interesting strategy for getting referrals. then visits all his clients from the past makes it clear that the purpose of his call with the services his company has provided He meets with customers, asks a lot of questions, follow up on any difficulties that they are for the months ahead. With this strategy, hundred prospects to call on. Use the right words when you ask for feedback. everything going?" he will always say, "Fine." not complaining, it usually means that he he say s, "Fine," is because he doesn't If a customer is not complaining, it usually reason. The reason he says, "Fine," is argument with you. instead of asking, "How's it we can do to improve our services to you to the future, to an ideal future the specific things you can do to make his next time. This is what you want you get these ideas, promise to "OTHER NICE PEOPLE LIKE YOU" service visit, is to ask the "other nice covered: "By the way, I really like to know any other nice people like After you have asked for his input and will be open to giving you the names of in what you have to offer. Write if he would help you out by giving you will be contacting them. By and large, THE ALTERNATIVE CLOSE ON REFERRALS these recommendations. Ask know the names of two or three other nice (the alternative close). two rather than three. Take out your (the suggestive close). He will BlackBerry and give you two names and on your pad, you then ask, "Bill, Bill will tell you which one. than I do. Would you call him up and say, next Thursday afternoon?" Bill knows exactly what you are asking and the person and probably get straight through. speaking to you and that you will be calling opportunity to mouth a suggestion to him: Bill if that time will work for him or her. have set up an appointment for you Now that Bill has called one person, calling him. Ask him to, and he will call the second you as well. You will often leave his office credibility of the person you just spoke to. The highest-paid salespeople work on the basis regular part of their sales work to ask for they go. They have developed so many different that they no longer have time to prospect When you visit a referral from a happy customer, before you even open your mouth. This is the you to move into the top ranks of the highest key ? Just ask. 1. Select one closing technique each week memorize the words; practice it aloud repeatedly. you hear and develop way s to 3. Make a decision today to work by referral noncustomer for the names of prospects you 4. Plan and rehearse several different way your presentation; the more you ask for the 5. Develop and rehearse a series of glad as in your sales conversation to reduce resistance are powerful. be such a professional salesperson you to their friends and 7. Ask for the order; as soon as you answer initiative and immediately move into closing "putt for dough." the right thoughts and the right efforts will --James Allen 6 DOUBLE YOUR INCOME of the day that will busy life. YOUR ABILITY TO MANAGE YOUR TIME CAN BE THE your success as a sales professional. The determines the quality of your life. as one of many subjects that I saw it as a planet that orbited I realized that time management is the on is merely planets that orbit it, that You can do the same. How you think about your income largely determines earn and how much you accomplish. Average in terms of how much they make each month think about their income in terms of their make every hour pay for itself. terms of their hourly rate, and they are When you think of your income in terms of for you to waste time day by day. According the average salesperson only works ninety not made until about 11:00 AM, and his last afternoon. In between, he is warming up, hanging chatting idly, or engaging in other time-wasting Determine Your Hourly Rate how much they want to earn by the number of hours in a sales y ear, that amount each hour. y ear, divided by 2,000, your income your income to $100,000 per y ear, you You cannot reach your desired income you that kind of income. they say in hunting, "You can only eat what When you work for a fixed salary, you get show up at your place of work. But salespeople paid for results. As they say in hunting, The Law of Three entrepreneurs and sales This law say s that, no matter how many are only three activities that pay you account for more than 90 percent or success in any field, is this: do more things, and get better and better at In selling, no matter what the product, the desired hourly rate are prospecting, presenting, engaged in these three core activities are You Wake Up Unemployed and remain unemployed until and will buy within a reasonable begin. ninety minutes per day, this is ninety minutes each day prospecting, INCREASE YOUR FACE TIME are working or not is by measuring qualified prospects each day. Your job buy, and then to sell your products or home or place of business, rearranging reports, and listening to music in your these are not core activities. They pay One of the simplest way s for you to double of time you spend prospecting, presenting, minutes you spend face-to-face with qualified you should be asking yourself, would I pay what I am doing, right now? hourly rate to do what you are and start prospecting, s, "If you will be hard on yourself, life being easy on yourself, life is going to be The Key s to Time Management face-to-face with a real, live preparation and organization work on weekend. They plan each day the sales work before the selling day and in are available, they concentrate with those customers. This is Eliminate the Time Wasters in Selling The first major time waster in selling is when you find every conceivable reason to who can and will buy from you. much to do and too little time. The is determined by their choices about things that could make a significant low-value tasks and activities, those things are done or not. International, half of all working wasted time is taken up with coffee breaks, or other useless activities that make no work, the average person works about hours are wasted and only sixteen hours working hours, many of them are spent on hard and necessary. way to overcome set priorities on your activities, and you possibly can. Get up and get going. something important as early as of effectiveness all day long. to yourself, do it now! Do it now! started. When you repeat them often subconscious mind, where it serves moving throughout the day. delay s, play your own game. with people who have time to associate wasters in the world of work. Stay will only drag you down. only three activities that will pay your and closing. Only when you are you actually working. but do it on the go, or with your wrong with stopping for lunch, but eat it out of lunch. Whenever possible, have it with customers and prospects. Forget time and keeps you away from your TIME WASTER #2: THE INCOMPLETE SALES CALL sales call, requiring a callback. your presentation or taken all When you are with the customer, you forms, prices, or materials that you arrangements to go back and see the does not happen. call can often be caused by poor sales or to close the sale. When you you don't know what to say or how to prospect's response: "Let me think it As I wrote about in the introduction, when twenties, the only job I could get was straight-commission from office to office, selling $20 memberships discount card, the customer could get 10 to hundred different restaurants around the city. usage. It should have been an easy sell. But Forget lunching with coworkers. This is a your primary sales activities. cold call, make my presentation, and what to say. The prospect would say, "Well, I would thank her very much, make a note to day s, and go on with my work. Invariably, in, was in a meeting, was not available, was had spoken to her about in the first place. CHANGE YOUR APPROACH only making two or three sales a to call back after the prospect had from that moment on, that I would not call yes or no, after every presentation. next person I called on, at the end of good; let me think about it. Call me back I took a deep breath and replied, "I'm The prospect looked straight at me and said, I replied, "I'm sorry, I don't make decision. It is an excellent product. It pay need to know to make a buying decision, you take it?" take it." When I walked out of that meeting, I was a make callbacks. My whole sales life changed. same response ("Let me think it over"), callbacks"). The second person I spoke to fourth, and the fifth. In that one day, I in an entire week. Instead, they will forget you ever lived by The fact is that people do not think it over. by the time you get out of the building. When what you are talking about or why they might place. Over the y ears I have learned that a primary is that salespeople simply do not know how clearly. They do not present properly. They intelligently. And they don't know how to from customer to customer but make few sales. improving your sales skills and increasing TIME WASTER #3: INACCURACIES AND DEFICIENCIES find yourself with a prospect, but an intelligent presentation. You may the wrong specifications. You may for the wrong materials. You may she wanted and made a proposal that satisfy her need. Some y ears ago, in presenting a building put together a proposal on the building with and expected rates of return. I had it typed time to review it carefully. As a result, a proposal showed a building that yielded The prospect was very sharp. He quickly reviewed numbers, and then chucked the proposal back wasting my time with something like this?" deal. My credibility was shot. The that day forward, I have checked out. is done correctly, and check it Never assume that everything will McKenzie said, "Errant assumptions TIME WASTER #4: LACK OF PRODUCT KNOWLEDGE It boils down to ignorance of the invariably caused by laziness on the part very easily overcome with time and You should be intimately familiar with everything can do. Know what your competitors offer that service. Be clear why and how your product on the market. When the prospect asks, "If I have this service do this or that for me?" you should If you aren't sure of the answer and you foolish. The prospect instantly senses that about. Your credibility goes down the drain. you vanishes. You are soon back out on the Good product knowledge is the foundation of salespeople I have met have memorized their all their brochures and sales information, presentation with just the information stored same with you. Thorough preparation separates the sheep from salespeople. The top salesperson takes the her product or service. She reviews and then decides in advance that no one will ever ask intelligently and completely. specifications. If they lost all could still give a compelling sales in their own heads. is the confidence that it gives are calmer, more relaxed, and You have a positive mental attitude. on the prospect and cause him or her to smoother and easier. Preparation really TIME WASTER #6: UNCONFIRMED APPOINTMENTS sets off across town to see a prospect so everything should go as the prospect has been called out for some reason. As a result, he has it now takes him to get back to his office. because he did not reconfirm an Why don't salespeople bother to reconfirm that if they call to reconfirm, the prospect willing to take a chance rather than to risk TWO WAYS TO RECONFIRM APPOINTMENTS an appointment without the risk of directly and ask (even though you is our meeting tomorrow afternoon at When the prospect say s, "Oh, we're scheduled "That's exactly what I thought; I'll to seeing you." losing it is to call the When the receptionist confirms that say, "Please tell him that this is John my appointment with him at 10:00 AM The advantage of calling up and confirming more professional. It reminds the prospect amount of curiosity and anticipation. It reminds and make time for you. Sometimes when you call to reconfirm an appointment, will say, "I'm glad you called. Mrs. Prospect able to meet with you today." sorry to hear that, but thank you for new time that would be more ?" With e-mail, you have a wonderful way to reconfirm danger of them being canceled, at least not appointment, get the person's e-mail address. appointment, send him an e-mail confirming agreed upon. Since the first thing people you will have reminded him of the appointment, visit. Many salespeople also call after hours prospect of the appointment. This is another TIME WASTER #7: POOR GEOGRAPHICAL PLANNING This is a major time waster, often caused unconsciously avoid the potential rejection calls widely over a geographic area. They city and then set their next call in the far traveling in between. As they drive along themselves that because they are in motion, You can sometimes streamline your sales business immediately by clustering your calls geographically. traveling time between customers and you automatically face time that you spend with people who can Divide your sales territory into quadrants. day or half day. Cluster all your calls in someone in the southwest wants to see you the northeast part of the city, move him to A GREAT SUCCESS STORY a sales seminar, a very successful story. A couple of y ears as a last resort. She had no sales She tried for six months to get a sales Finally one of their salespeople quit, six months, she was the top sales She said that her secret was simple. She divided then disciplined herself to work intensely day s per week. She disciplined herself not result, she spent more time with prospects, better she became, the more sales she made areas where she was concentrating. She eventually professionals in her field in the nation. There is an old proverb that say s, "The Salespeople who are nervous about calling having everything perfectly in order before need for more preparation as an excuse to memorize every single detail. They feel compelled on every form. They study their sales materials The basic rule is for you to get it 80 percent enough and knowledgeable enough on your product of people. The basic rule in this area is for you Become good enough and knowledgeable get out in front of people. As Benjamin time is to do very well what need not be You will find that the more time you spend will learn about your product and how to sell face to face contact and direct question-and-answer GET UP AND GET GOING before you make calls can be to learn; get the basics down pat. But who can buy. Everything else will take The fear of rejection is like a goblin that When you have this fear, as Everyone does your creating every conceivable excuse to reconfirming appointments, and meeting those overcome fear by doing the thing you fear. simply facing rejection so many times that TIME WASTER #9: DISTRACTION AND MIND WANDERING did not pay attention to what was thinking of problems at home pondering his financial situation or his In any case, when you don't listen attentively nuances of what the prospect say s, those You fail to notice the looks that the prospect presentation that would tell you what interests DISCIPLINES ARE LEARNABLE on the prospect and what he is can be learned. Concentration is not easy easier over time. (Everything is hard Sometimes you can increase your focus and careful notes while the prospect is speaking. techniques that include leaning forward, pausing, this keeps you more alert to what the prospect what he means by what he is saying. Fatigue is a major time waster. But selling your energy. It burns up all your reserves. intensely you interact with people, the more day. When you come right down to it, the energy the most important factor that you bring to products; they buy people. People don't then they buy what you sell. When you are make a positive impact on the person you are very best, you make the most sales. When you're GET LOTS OF SLEEP deprivation. They are not getting their best during the weekday s. Don't ten at least five nights per week. to heart. They have increased their per night, and they are absolutely they have awakened from a drugged going through each day in a fog, not as TAKE CARE OF YOUR HEALTH so enhanced if you are bright and salespeople I know are They eat the right foods, get lots of rest, salespeople in America are Get a good book on diet and follow it closely. Choose high-protein breakfasts, avoiding toast, fatty foods. Have a salad with fish or chicken throughout the day. Keep yourself performing well so that you feel healthy and hearty throughout Imagine that you have become very wealthy lifelong dream. You bought an expensive racehorse, owned an expensive racehorse, what kind of invested all that money in a horse, would donuts, bagels, candy bars, and jugs of coffee? How much more valuable are you than a racehorse? expensive racehorse with the most nutritious feed yourself with the very best foods as How much more valuable are you than a racehorse? expensive racehorse with the most nutritious must feed yourself with the very best foods expensive and most important person in the BECOME A HIGH-ENERGY PROFESSIONAL the size of the dog in the fight; it's the the fight in the dog." It is not enough What will have the greatest impact on the you exhibit when you are face-to-face with Resolve today to take wonderful care of your you have, the faster you will bounce back of self-confidence and self-esteem will be impression on Everyone you meet. you to absorb the rejection and you and tire you out even more. But back from every difficulty, and TIME WASTER #11: LACK OF AMBITION that leads to high performance and you must be hungry. You must have an and the money that goes with it. You must wait to get out there! on new prospects. When you see all your other goals, for yourself and to the point where you will a wonderful thing. On the other hand, there are people who are selling is not the right field for them. In level, and they are complacent. They have incomes and have no real desire to improve Even if you offer them prizes and incentives, work any harder than they already are. These producers, but they have no real future in THE CONDITIONS OF MEDIOCRITY a large national company. They salespeople with ideas on how to set done. presentation, sharing with them thousands of salespeople in different of the people sat leaning back in their reading the newspaper or conversing with it. at the break how things were going. said that this material was of little All these salespeople were unionized and person had been with the company for do would increase or decrease their Their plan was to stay with the IMPOSSIBLE TO MOTIVATE are saying. I have no ambition. I don't change my income or my position. It Why should I work any harder than I am and then go home and watch TV." I thought to myself, what a tragedy. He fire has already gone out at forty. He has an easy job and night-time television. Lack Join the Top 20 Percent principles is for you to get You know that 20 percent of the Invariably, the top 20 percent have become very good at the key things the more money you will make and Remember, no one is smarter than you, and starts at the bottom. Everybody who is doing And anything that anyone else has learned, doing better than you, it is only because have. And the proof that you can learn those skills, starting from nothing and not knowing Start Early, Stay Later the people who are the hardest to or seven thirty in the morning. I have found over the y ears that the best before and after normal working hours. This entrepreneurs and company owners. The reason they start earlier and work later. If you them at times that are convenient for them, your career. usually turn out to be the most the time in the world seldom buy Apply the 80/20 Rule to Everything do. Spend 80 percent of your time that you don't have time to see time on the 20 percent of prospects those customers who buy the Make a Game of Seeing People gun goes off at eight o'clock on as fast as you can. All day, every of as many people as you possibly can. with one of your friends at work. as quickly as possible. See my Here's what will happen. By the time you will be positive, optimistic, enthusiastic, knowledgeable about your product or service. or failure left at all. You will have heard question that you will ever get from a customer. higher level than ever before. Think in terms of minutes rather than hours. faster in everything you do. Pick up the pace. bias for action. Move quickly. until the coffee is ready. Get to work. you work. Don't drop off your dry Work every minute and every hour. before and after normal working hours. and company owners. The start earlier and work later. the hardest-working person in your Just make sure that, when anyone You don't take breaks or waste time. As as you're concerned, this is not play time. If someone say s, "Have you got a minute Right now I have to get back to work!" Don't waste coffee breaks. When people go much of their day is built around coffee breaks morning, they start thinking about when they and begin organizing the people with whom for you. do anything that doesn't pay. Instead, coffee breaks and use it to increase your your income, and far faster than you AN IMMEDIATE PAY INCREASE per day at about 20 minutes each, That is 40 minutes per day. These 40 200 minutes per week; 200 minutes per That is the equivalent of 166 hours of additional pay that you give up by When you resolve to spend every coffee break very quickly add one month's salary to your When you resolve to spend every coffee break very quickly add one month's salary to your pay can be equal to buying yourself a new retiring five y ears earlier than the average BOOST YOUR INCOME going back to college and his One hour a day equals five hours per working weeks a y ear, it comes out six weeks of working time, wasted in an life. using that time to make more months to your working y ear, or an the first day. Since everything you do will also soon be a habit. You will the habit of earning more than habits for you to have. Attend sales seminars regularly. Before a available, it has been tested and proven with professionals in that field. The person presenting hundreds of hours in research and thousands seminar together. some of the very best ideas ever can save you weeks, months, and even who have doubled and tripled from one idea that they got at one seminar. The law of probabilities largely explains do more things that are likely to lead them fewer things. By the law of probabilities, to do the right thing at the right time in When you attend sales seminars on a regular the probability that you will learn what you have set for yourself. This doesn't mean the moment. But if you get enough different will almost inevitably get the one or two better. in every field attend sales States and Canada, and in twenty - the highest-paid, most successful sales seminars. The low-income earners are money and complaining about how tough learning Everything they possibly We've already discussed the merits of reading of the condensed knowledge to be discovered that you read one hour per day, attend sales programs in your car. Suddenly you can make you have developed the habit of making one automatically move up to two additional sales What kind of an impact would that have on about it! You can become one of the most competent your industry by continuing to upgrade your Manage Your Time Well thinking is the cause of every for you to increase your sales and your The more time you take to think through and effective you will be and the more sales you Use a time management system. Any time management as long as you use it as a natural extension a paper time planner, a Palm Pilot, a BlackBerry, It always takes a little time to learn how sy stem into your life. But this investment will add two hours of productive time to your organize your day. As you become more fluent management, you will double your productivity, income. You are your most important asset, your most the only thing that you have to sell. And how well you are using yourself. It is the apply ing your talents and skills to your Your earning ability is your most valuable increase your earning ability enhances the Return on Energy for corporations, we concentrate on This is the return to the owners of the in the business. It is the chief effectiveness. is mental, emotional, and physical. In on increasing your return on rate and on the results that you get Self-Made Millionaires Stanley and William Danko in America were entrepreneurs important skill for success in product or service. Sales skills opened By the law of probabilities, your ability line in terms of financial potential. The independence, and even becoming a millionaire, better in sales than in any other field. And accomplish except the ones in your own mind. 1. Resolve today to double both your productivity your current hourly rate and multiply it by 2. Plan every day in advance; make a list then set priorities on your list; always start 3. Start each day by asking yourself, what well, will make the greatest difference in 4. Upgrade your skills continually ; always developed and did it in an excellent manner, double my income? Whatever your answer, work 5. Develop a sense of urgency, a bias for Work all the time you work. sales seminars four times per in your car; never stop getting 7. Analy ze your sales activities daily ; determine you will have to see to make a certain number level of income; then raise the bar on yourself. Anything that is wasted effort represents time thus becomes inseparably linked with --Alec MacKenzie THIS IS THE BEST TIME IN HISTORY TO BE ALIVE. created in more way s, all over the world, Millions of new businesses are started each success on the salespeople who sell their wealth being created today starts with someone You are, therefore, at the front of the line independence. principle ever discovered is learn enough to figure it all out for yourself by all the answers have already been in selling, has already been And what others have done, you can Perhaps the most outwardly identifiable quality action-orientation. They learn about a new immediately. When you try a new way or making things can happen: success or failure. If better and better in the process. work, you can try it again, learn from it, you can't lose! changed my life. I resolved that I ten times before I gave up on it. I time. The development of key skills takes bicy cle, you fall down a few times before you can do it easily and naturally for the In the same way, all sales skills are learnable. including closing skills, that you need to yourself. There are no limits. methods, techniques, and you become one of the greatest Go for it! ABOUT THE AUTHOR AUTHORI-ties on the effectiveness. He's a dy namic and to inform and inspire audiences achievement. each y ear on the subjects of the executives and staff of IBM, Mutual, and The Million Dollar on leadership, sales, management, changes and long-term results. chairman of Brian Tracy in San Diego, California, with countries worldwide. Brian was the Chief Operating million in assets. He has had investments, real estate development and management consulting. He has with several billion-dollar-plus development. on six continents, and he in management, psychology, brings a unique perspective and sty le to capture and hold audience attention examples, humor, and concrete, Brian is the author of more than 40 books, Be a Sales Superstar, Maximum Achievement, Absolutely Unbreakable Laws of Business Success, He is the author/narrator of more than 300 including The Psychology of Achievement, Breaking Psychology of Selling, Peak Performance Woman, Science of Self-Confidence, Thinking Big, Brian is married with four children and lives active in community affairs and works closely nationwide. ADVANCED COACHING AND THIS INTENSIVE ONE-YEAR PROGRAM IS IDEAL FOR successful entrepreneurs and sales professionals results and greater balance in their lives. per y ear and you have a four full day s with Brian Tracy in will learn how to double your off with your family at the Every 90 day s, you will work with Brian Tracy successful entrepreneurs, Self-employed professionals, for an entire day. During this time together, alliance" from which you gain ideas and immediately to your work and personal life. of effectiveness: and Multiplication. You will learn a these principles into everything CLARIFICATION about who you really are and areas of life. You will determine goals for yourself, your family, and SIMPLIFICATION your life, getting rid of all the little to the achievement of your real superb health and fitness, learn how to streamline, delegate, pursuits that are of little value. You will learn how to get the very most out the best time and personal management tools You will be taught how to get more done in rapidly, and have even more time for your MULTIPLICATION strengths to accomplish vastly efforts and resources. You'll people's efforts, other people's contacts to increase your personal BRIAN TRACY GIVES THIS PROGRAM PERSONALLY y ear in San Diego. Each session includes exercises, and instruction, plus meals and materials. At the end of each session, you blueprint for the next 90 day s. visit our Web site at Gary Kewish, at 1-800-542- or an application. We look forward