SUBTITLE: Hessischer Rundfunk SUBTITLE: Hessischer Rundfunk There is a mega trend that more and more crime is moving from the analog area to the Internet. It must always be assumed that an attack is already underway or could happen at any moment. This will never end! The police have to line up to catch the perpetrators. This game of cat and mouse between authorities and cybercriminals is fun on the scene. Without understanding the attacks, you cannot protect yourself very well. It's 10 after 12 and we realize it's getting expensive. The situation is dramatic. April 2021: Cyber criminals paralyze the IT network of the trading company &quot;tegut&quot;, encrypt data and demand a ransom. There have been gaps on the shelves for weeks. Finally, stolen company internals, market research and customer data are published on the dark web. July 2021: Cyber criminals encrypt the IT systems of the liability insurance company in Rossdorf near Darmstadt, steal bank details from customers and business partners, and publish them on the dark web. The insurer needs two weeks to be able to work as before. December 2019: The University of Giessen has been offline for more than four weeks. No WiFi, no website, no emails, no lending of books. Seminars and exams are cancelled. Hackers had infected the system with the &quot;Emotet&quot; malware and read contact relationships and e-mail content. Only in January 2021 will the BKA, together with international law enforcement agencies, smash the Emotet infrastructure. In a perfidious way, she had made it possible to smuggle in further malware: As a user, you then received an e-mail that looked familiar to you. That was someone you had been in contact with before. The content of that email related to a communication they had previously had. Knowing this, the perpetrators tried to trick you into clicking on an attached link or opening an attached Word document. In March 2021, criminals also succeeded in infecting computer networks at EDAG in Fulda, one of the world's largest engineering service providers in the automotive industry. Encrypt data, extort ransom. The business model is called ransomware attack. We would have liked to speak to representatives of the companies affected. But no one goes in front of the camera. Why not? We ask Simran Mann from Bitkom-Digitalverband: The damage to reputation is enormous damage for companies. They are afraid when it is published that a cyber attack has taken place on them, that they could lose customers, could lose partners. But almost everyone has been in the same boat for a long time. 86 percent of German companies suffered damage from cyber attacks in 2021. 63 percent of victims had communications data stolen, almost a third lost customer data, 29 percent lost financial data, 18 percent lost intellectual property and 17 percent had employee data stolen. According to a representative Bitkom study, total damage to the German economy: 223 billion euros! Cyber attacks are now a highly professional criminal business. Andreas Papadaniil runs an IT security company. She advises companies and gets their computer systems up and running again after attacks: we're talking about organized crime. These are full professionals. Just as there are various professional groups in our country, they also exist there. There are corresponding staff who write the virus. There are staff to help with ransom payment and staff to help distribute the malware. There are different roles and activities for all these professional groups . The corona pandemic offers new perspectives for these &quot;professional groups&quot;. Thanks to increased working hours in the home office, the often less secure computer networks can now be attacked even more easily. In addition, we are digitizing more and more and the perpetrators are realizing that the crimes are easy to commit, there is a low risk of discovery and high profits can be made. And that leads to more and more attacks taking place. What we experience today will be the new &quot;normal&quot; tomorrow. Sounds like heavenly working conditions for hackers and their clients. A large number of German companies find themselves confronted with a situation that is becoming increasingly threatening. I would say that we have a big imbalance: On the attacker side, there are professional, well-trained people who know exactly what they are doing. On the company side, we have a severe shortage of skilled workers. That means they don't have dedicated IT security staff. They must try to counteract this with their resources. And that's almost impossible. In June 2022, urban waste disposal and supply companies will be hit in Hesse . Among them the Darmstadt energy supplier Entega. Another ransomware attack. Data encrypted, ransom demanded. It started on the night of the 11th to the 12th, from Saturday to Sunday. Around four o'clock in the morning, the colleagues noticed it. The goal was the user accounts of our approximately 2,000 employees. This means that the main thing is about e-mail, but also about access to documents, forms, etc., to everything that is needed on the computer for daily work. We, the entire energy industry, are constantly under attack, Unfortunately , given the level of criminal energy that has been shown, that has not succeeded. Data from Entega customers has been published on the dark web. Electricity, water or gas supply were not affected. Not this time. But what is happening, what will happen to our critical infrastructures? This corridor leads to a future that makes you think. When Lorenz Kuhlee and his colleagues look down on Frankfurt from the 34th floor , everything seems fine. But order is threatened. Down there - like around the world - companies fight against cybercriminals every day. There are companies that take this very seriously. Just like they have their factory security, their fence, their alarm systems or even their own fire brigade on the premises. But there are also companies that take it lightly. In English one would say: &quot;Some people learn the hard way.&quot; We don't want that. We want to support and make the world a little better for everyone. To do this, they have built parts of the world here that need special protection: industrial plants, exemplary. Chemical tanks, for example, digitally monitored and controlled. The simulation of a logistics company's sorting system. Here, consultants from PricewaterhouseCoopers demonstrate how vulnerable the economy, industry and critical infrastructure are. They call their examples &quot;Showcases&quot;. A miniature model ecosystem from the power plant to robotic manufacturing to the digitally networked hospital. From up here, computer scientist Benjamin Fani Sani can transform himself into a cybercriminal attacker and demonstrate what is possible. A heat sensor on a gas pipeline. If it registers fire, the alarm goes off. However, signals from pressure, temperature and flow sensors can be manipulated. What an attacker could do now is if he manages to open this box with a &quot;Raspberry Pie&quot;, a miniature computer for little money, meaning nothing illegal, nothing special. It can be programmed in such a way that the connection between the device and the control center can be interrupted. This is where you launch a man-in-the-middle attack. Only a few entries are necessary and the control center no longer knows what is actually happening in the pipeline. Despite a fire close to the heat sensor, no alarm! Critical Infrastructure: Victims of Cybercriminals. On February 24, the day of the Russian attack on Ukraine, around 5,800 wind turbines in Central Europe were hit. They can no longer be remotely monitored and controlled. Russian hackers attacked a satellite network that provides Internet access in Ukraine. Collateral damage: the wind turbine monitoring. They too can be attacked: robots. Almost ubiquitous in industrial production and mostly networked. It may be even easier in the future if, in order to be more flexible in production, they are controlled wirelessly or communicate with each other wirelessly: This of course makes it interesting for an attacker to intervene in this wireless communication. Here we have the case that we could attach a transmitter to this drone, for example, with which one can intervene in this communication. But this can be done in many ways. Cyber attacks no longer only endanger computer systems, but also life and limb. The more there is automation, the higher the complexity, the more opportunities for attacks there can be. More and more companies are networked and interacting with each other. IT, information technology, and OT, operational technology, merge. The danger for critical infrastructures is growing. The Council of Europe and the European Parliament now want to create more cyber security with a mandatory directive on network and information security. We ask Jan Lemnitzer, a native of Hesse and a professor at the Copenhagen Business School, about the consequences: It practically means that at least 100,000 companies that have not been regulated in the EU until now will then be subject to strict cyber security regulations and will have to see that they meet requirements or, on the other hand, have to reckon with fines of 1-2 percent of global sales. Golden times for PricewaterhouseCoopers consultants and other cyber experts. If you haven't invested enough in cyber security, you need to upgrade. From the food manufacturer to the hospital. Whether an attack will take place is not the question, only: when? There is no such thing as 100 percent security. I have to assume that a company is compromised, A company must be able to detect an attack. He must not remain undetected. And if I've detected it quickly, then I'll have a quick answer, a quick response to the attack. I think that's how modern cybercrime is fought. Only one thing seems certain in the digitized, networked world: it costs billions to keep it running. Invest in more security. They are also working on it here, in building 43 of the Fulda University of Applied Sciences. A group of software developers is building a new type of defense against cyber attacks. They are developing an intelligent collaborative intrusion detection system, IDS for short. A software that is designed to detect attacks particularly quickly and to report intrusions into computer networks. What makes it special is that it is designed to defend connected networks of companies and institutions better and faster than they could individually. Professor Ulrich Buhler, who is in charge of the project, explains it in a very similar way: So it's about the fact that in the network, about three company computer networks in a common detection system, i.e. in a global IDS, an early detection system, a better perspective and more resources available. As a result, the probability of detecting attacks is also significantly higher than in comparison to the individual perspectives in a local company computer network. But how do you do that? Traditional security software requires traces of an attack: signatures. But they only exist when an attack has taken place. Only then can further attacks of this type be recognized and warded off. Newer software knows how a computer network normally behaves. It has learned to recognize patterns in the normal data stream. If these change, it suspects an impending attack and issues an alarm. I believe that in a networked world like the one we are experiencing, where there is ultimately continuous competition between attackers and defenders, there is little choice but to collaborate. If we take a look: in the history of mankind, we have ultimately fended off attacks or defended ourselves by working together, and I believe that is the right way to go at this point. Possibly the only one who stays. Because more and more companies are cooperating closely with each other worldwide and are constantly exchanging data via their computer networks. With the help of machine learning , connected networks should protect each other. It's similar to how human learning works: you have a certain pattern, if you know that , you can teach the pattern. You can train it, I almost said, you can also teach it. If I manage to exchange this pattern, then I can make an attack that was previously unknown in the overall system, that is discovered in parts, very quickly available to others. And thus for their defense. But there is a catch. The more communication takes place between networks and if security programs still exchange information, the more gateways open up for attackers. So the data traffic must be encrypted. Every message like this, &quot;Please help me&quot; is first encrypted and then decrypted again by the recipient. The most important thing in any cooperation is trust. Confidence that any information I send will not be misused or fall into the wrong hands. Cybersecurity is one of the most expensive assets in any organization today: the top companies spend at least 10% of their revenues on security. And the effort will not decrease in the coming years, but rather increase: IT security is not a product that you can buy somewhere at some point and then you have it and that's the end of the matter. IT security is an ongoing process that is, of course, probably never-ending. At some point, of course, this means that the systems, together with the protective mechanisms, are complex and then probably hardly tradable. No good prospects. The scientists in Fulda are optimistic that this is not yet the case. They want to complete the development of their collaborative security software, which is funded by the Federal Ministry of Education and Research, in two years. Software can protect against attacks, but not against perpetrators who run their business on the dark web. We have arranged to meet one of them in Frankfurt. More than a million customers, 5,000 salespeople and 40 million euros in sales. Sentenced to seven years and nine months in prison by the Frankfurt Regional Court. In the beginning we wrote a lot together, the chemistry was right. We exchanged ideas about topics. One could program very well. The other had more skills in server management. That's how we found each other over time. And, you have to say, at that point I actually had the feeling that the three of us were friends. In an abstract way. We've never seen each other... &quot;Wall Street Market&quot; is what the three friends, who met online, call their Dark Web platform. Drugs in particular are traded here: cocaine, heroin, marijuana, hashish, LSD, amphetamine, ecstasy. But also other illegal goods, such as forged documents, spied data and malware. Technically, you could compare &quot;Wall Street Market&quot; to &quot;ebay&quot;. This means that we have provided the technical framework so that buyers and sellers can meet and then act accordingly. You earn from the sales of the local sellers with over certain commission rates. Two to six percent. Pretty lucrative and well hidden on the internet. Not where most of us are, on &quot;Facebook&quot; and &quot;Instagram&quot;, on &quot;ebay&quot; or &quot;google&quot;. Not even on the &quot;deep web&quot;, where we conduct banking transactions in a protected manner, exchange ideas privately or where science maintains databases. But here: in the dark web. Anonymized and partly encrypted. Accessible through the Tor browser. Here are illegal marketplaces and hacker forums. It's dark, mysterious, there are different user levels. That was an attraction for me back then. Then the views on it shift. what is legal What is illegal? What is good? what is evil You also lose the connection to victims in the fraud area, in the Darknet area, which we did. Because, of course, cybercrime is abstract. Being a cyber criminal is very easy to do. Because you don't see the victims and the consequences and you don't have to deal with them. At least not until spring 2019. &quot;Wall Street Market&quot; is being dug up and shut down. The FBI, Europol, the Dutch police and the BKA proudly announce the success of their investigation: This is a decisive blow. I'm also curious about the reaction of the criminals, because they see that the dark web isn't that anonymous. We security authorities are also able to carry out investigations here. In Frankfurt, in the Attorney General's Office, in the central office for combating cybercrime, Chief Public Prosecutor Jana Ringwald keeps a close eye on cybercriminals and their activities. The blow against the three friends from Hesse, Baden-Wurttemberg and North Rhine-Westphalia and their Wall Street Market is also their personal success. Data-based and internationally networked investigations have proven their worth: Basically, our main tool is to find out where the server structure, the infrastructure of such Darknet marketplaces is located. That's the way we can swing from server to server. To find out where and how they communicate and ultimately to find the perpetrators. The cat and mouse game between authorities and cybercriminals is also fun for many in the scene. You then mock authorities and feel superior. That's so. The scene is very arrogant. But this arrogance disappears very quickly when the authorities land a hit. You have to say that too. After house searches, the investigators seized around 550,000 euros in cash . Just like luxury watches and expensive sports cars. Also the income in Bitcoin and other cryptocurrencies. From this they ultimately redeem 100 million euros for the state treasury. Basically, the perpetrators very often secure their profits in Bitcoin. Bitcoin is a payment method that is anonymous. Nevertheless, there is the blockchain. This means that every transaction is recorded using a number code and can be viewed by everyone. It's anonymous, but there are options. There are also services that provide data analytics that give us the ability, to a limited extent, to track things. All in all, it has to be said that following the trail is sometimes even faster and easier than if you operate with accounts where you have to go through several countries and several banks to trace the flow of money in detail. Anonymity of dark web and cryptocurrencies. The &quot;Wall Street Market&quot; operators did not protect them. They confess and cooperate. On July 2, 2021, the Frankfurt Regional Court sentenced her to several years in prison for gang drug trafficking. If you had asked me four or five years ago: &quot;What can the German authorities do when it comes to cybercrime?&quot; Then I probably would have laughed out loud. Now you won't see me laughing anymore. After an illegal platform is before an illegal platform: &quot;Hydra Market&quot;, the world's largest illegal marketplace, closed on April 5 by the Federal Criminal Police Office and the Attorney General's Office. Perpetrator? So far unknown. Basically, we have to beat the perpetrators with their own means, and they are limitless and data-based. We have to do that too. This is a big task and a challenge. But we do have some opportunities that we need to spread more and more. Martin Frost remains more than one million euros in tax debts and the hope that the Federal Court of Justice will allow his revision. There remain many others still enticed by the possibilities of the dark web. What cybercriminals do and cause: In Darmstadt at the Fraunhofer Institute for Secure Information Technology , the subject of research is learning and teaching content. You have to try to find out what happened? What's broken? Has data been stolen and what do I have to do to contain it and get the systems up and running again? Breaking into a computer network. Good thing this is a simulation. On one of the world's leading platforms for this: At the Fraunhofer Institute for Secure Information Technology. Bad blackmail is also being prepared: we researched public sources: who is responsible for IT security? Where do we find someone who might not be as savvy because they tend to work in a non-IT department. We then created an e-mail and entered the name of this IT security person as the sender. This sender was spoofed, a kind of fake. For the inexperienced person who received the email, it was: Okay, my IT security officer is asking me to install anti-phishing software. At first it looked good for the person. She fell for it too and gave us access to the accounts accordingly. Cheat, spy, steal and blackmail. Cybercrime is the lifelong theme of Israeli professor Haya Shulman. She teaches computer science at the Goethe University and is a department head at the Fraunhofer Institute. Traces of attack are their learning and teaching content. On the other hand, we are building and we have built infrastructure that we control, that belongs to us. And we hire attacks on the dark web against us. So to speak, we commission attacks against our infrastructure. So they attack us. From this we learn: What infrastructure do criminals use to carry out attacks? This allows us to generate lists super efficiently and distribute them to organizations so that they block the IP addresses. This also allows us to see if there are any new methods that criminals are using. Of course, this job is exciting. You always have to think: What can go wrong? There are jobs where you think about how something works. With us you always have to think: what can go wrong. It's basically, I would say, like playing chess. Except that you can come up with new rules every time. In any case, in the attack scenario, the target person has fallen into the trap. She didn't think about what could go wrong. She trusted the instruction in a bogus email. First we were able to encrypt the files so that they were no longer available and then demand a ransom in the form of a bitcoin. In the fictitious example, to release the data again. Of course, the data is available to us as attackers. For example, we may use trade secrets of this company accordingly. Second, we had the person's mail account available. We could now attack contacts of this person as this person. Crime rampant, lightning fast, around the world. You don't need specialists for that, anyone could attack. It's about attacks that you can rent for five or ten dollars. If you don't like your boss and you want a denial of service attack on his personal email. Things like that are sold on the dark web. With scientific meticulousness , she and her team bring light into the cyber darkness: What interests us is what compromises there are. So, we're doing monitoring on the dark web to see what's leaking. For example, we see some databases with passwords of an organization. Sometimes we know of an attack or compromise before the victim. Anyone can become a victim because we almost always have a computer with us wherever we are. Then we simulated an attack on a mobile phone in order to take over the entire device there. So the possibility of querying GPS data there, taking photos with the camera, recording audio or even locking the device. *ringtone* And now? It's like in a chess game: study your opponent, think ahead, as many moves ahead as possible, and position yourself in such a way that the defense is organized almost impenetrably right from the start. We conduct security tests. We prefer it when someone comes up with their concept before development and we look at it: Which attackers might be interested in the system? What data or processes could they be targeting? From this we can derive security requirements for the system. The sooner someone comes to us and has security built into the process, the cheaper it is and the safer the end result. Actually, cyber attacks cost us much more than investing in cyber security. You have to be more ambitious. In order to protect our economy, politics, various sectors and critical infrastructure, we need new security concepts. And that fast! For a future that is also shaped in Fulda. At EDAG, one of the largest engineering service providers in the automotive industry. He develops cities and mobility of tomorrow. Even victims of a massive cyber attack in 2021 do not want to talk about it, just look ahead to the future. In the vehicles called Citybots are autonomous and electrically on the streets. They transport people and goods, fully networked with their environment and able to communicate. We think of traffic like our circulatory system. Means: We look for a lot of analogies from nature, which has solutions for everything. Our blood circulation system is the logistical masterpiece. Everything is constantly in flux. We have no traffic lights, traffic jams. That would be fatal for us. We want to transfer this metaphor to the scenario of how traffic in the city should work at the end. Transport becomes available anytime and anywhere in the city. Select, access and pay via mobile phone. The trick is to link or coordinate autonomous vehicles with digitization . This means that a piece of software, we call it the mobility backend, coordinates all the vehicles in the area like a puppet player , thereby avoiding traffic jams and achieving efficient routes. The vision of the EDAG developers: The city of the future is clean, safe, worth living in, friendly, quiet and smart. How do we get that safe, cyber security? How complicated is that? What does it take? We will not take any special precautions from the vehicle , but hopefully this will be solved on the software side. Certainly a challenge again. How can it be ensured that in the city of the future a city bot, which can also be equipped with various modules, for example as a city cleaner, is not hacked and used against the city dwellers? We have different lines of defense. The same applies here: Of course, there is no such thing as absolute security. But there are different levels. Even if an attacker via network, cloud, backend, whatever, manages to get the vehicle into this safe state in such a case and it is not possible to manipulate the steering, brakes and such. That is why a lot is invested in order to exclude exactly the cases and to minimize the risk to such an extent that it is not a worthwhile goal. This is how you have to look at it: the attackers always take the path of least resistance. If it's difficult enough, don't choose it. Networked digitization offers cybercriminals new attack opportunities. Smart Factories, which EDAG develops for customers from various industries, have sensors, chips, computer modules, control and communication programs from the USA, China and Europe. Potential gateways, hacked or prepared for espionage and sabotage by competitors or the state . How can you even trust every part that is part of the smart factory? You may be familiar with the expression: &quot;divide et impera&quot;, i.e. divide and rule. This is very often used in software development to break down a very complex, monolithic requirement into small, digestible chunks. If you also choose this approach for your IT and OT infrastructure, then you have small, manageable system fields where you can deal with risk patients very separately. So in the fully digitized factory, protective walls are needed to the outside and also within networked processes. Cyber security covers all concept, consulting and development phases. How many employees are involved and how much does it cost? EDAG does not provide any information on this. You always have to look at what are the risks and how can I be ahead of them? There will always come a point when you will be attacked again. The only question is: How quickly do I recognize the attack? Can I still turn him away? And if not: Can I quickly narrow it down so that the damage is minimal? Never being attacked again or making his systems that secure would mean I have to shut them down so I don't need them anymore. If I don't want to be vulnerable, I can't work. The future is digital and connected , and cybercrime is a part of it. There is no absolute protection against it. You had to find out about that at EDAG in Fulda and have corrected it accordingly. The investigative authorities also have to make improvements, and this is also known in Muhlheim am Main . Here, at the Hessian University for Police and Administration, we meet prospective cybercriminals in their 3rd semester. Steffen Bug, Professor of Information Technology, is already in the middle of the topic: There is no other way that a perpetrator always leaves something behind at a crime scene and, or takes something with him. Whether crimes committed analogously or digitally: Finding traces and securing traces will be their task in the future. Hier und jetzt: Daten einer geloschten Festplatte wiederherstellen. Aber sie haben hier, konnen Sie im Prinzip schon anfangen. Da kann mal schon reingucken. - Da konnen Sie schon analysieren. Vielleicht haben Sie erste Hinweise, was damit gemacht wurde. Anna Schmitz arbeitete bis zur Corona-Pandemie fur Reiseveranstalter. Benedikt Loh war Pastor. Sie lassen sich zu Kriminalisten mit Schwerpunkt Cybercrime ausbilden. Eigentlich hat ja fast jede Straftat irgendwas mit Internet zu tun. Dadurch, dass die Polizei da noch mehr Leute gebrauchen kann, finde ich einfach, dass ist einfach reizend, dass man da auch gebraucht wird. Wir sehen im Internet, dass viele Spuren gelegt werden konnen, wo es fur die Polizei schwierig ist, hinterherzukommen. Dass man auf dem neuesten Stand der Technik versucht zu bleiben, um am Ball zu bleiben, um die Moglichkeit einzugrenzen, Straftaten zu begehen. Das duale Studium Kriminalpolizei mit Schwerpunkt Cyberkriminalistik gibt es seit 2021. Die Studierenden haben, statt der gewohnlichen 70 Stunden, 320 Stunden Ausbildung in Informationstechnik und Informatik. Steffen Bug ist einer der Vater der polizeilichen Cyber-Ausbildungs-Offensive: Da ist viel kriminalistisches Gespur von Noten. Deswegen ist es auch wichtig, dass wir in erster Linie aus diesen Menschen Polizeibeamte machen. Die mussen sich uberlegen, wo konnte eine Spur sein? Sie mussen auch was davon verstehen, wie so ein Tater tickt, um dann an der richtigen Stelle zu suchen. Weil das wurde Uberhand nehmen, wenn Sie versuchen wurden, jede noch so unmogliche digitale Spur zu sichern zum Auszuwerten. Hier werden Cyper-Spezialisten dringend gebraucht: Bundeskriminalamt Wiesbaden. Derzeit sind etwa 280 Stellen ausgeschrieben fur Menschen mit IT- und Cyber-Kenntnissen. Es ist nicht einfach, IT-Fachkrafte zu gewinnen. Das weiss jeder, der Markt ist leer. Aber, wir gewinnen solche, die einen Sinn sehen, in dem, was sie tun wollen. Die nicht so sehr darauf achten, ihr Gehalt zu maximieren, sondern fur die die Sinnstiftung im Vordergrund steht. Die, die wir bisher gewonnen haben, arbeiten hochmotiviert, sind hochleistungsfahig und sind bisher bei uns geblieben. Auch Jana Ringwald, Oberstaatsanwaltin in der Zentralstelle zur Bekampfung der Internetkriminalitat, weiss um den Wert cybercrime- interessierten Nachwuchses und wirbt um ihn: Wenn die Leute was konnen, konnen die in der Privatwirtschaft viel mehr Geld verdienen. Aber das, was wir bieten konnen, so zu ermitteln. Ich sag das gern mit dem Bild: hinter dem Gartenzaun zu ermitteln. Dort, wo Daten gegen den Willen Dritter erhoben werden konnen, da, wo nur noch wir ermitteln durfen, das ist ein Reiz auch fur Techniker, fur Cyber-Analysten, fur Ermittler, die auch technisch ausgebildet sind. Die durfen bei uns Sachen machen, die sie in der Privatwirtschaft nicht machen durfen. Diese Vision, dieses Ermitteln fur den guten Zweck, das treibt viele junge Leute an, zu uns zu kommen. Zukunftige Cyberkriminalisten aber stehen vor grossen Herausforderungen. Nur etwa ein Drittel der Cyber-Straftaten wird aufgeklart. Das liegt vor allem daran, dass viele Tater gut anonymisiert aus dem Ausland agieren. So bleiben viele Falle unaufgeklart, selbst mit internationaler Ermittler-Zusammenarbeit. Das weiss Jan Lemnitzer, Professor an der &quot;Copenhagen Business School&quot;. Es ist kein sinnvoller Einsatz von Ressourcen, detailliert und nach hochsten Standards, Verbrechen im Internet nachzuforschen, bei denen mit hochster Wahrscheinlichkeit am Ende ein Ransomware-Krimineller in Moskau oder ein Internet-Betruger in Lagos, in Nigeria als Tater gefudnen wird. Wo einfach vollkommen klar ist, dass lokale Behorden weder Kapazitaten noch das Interesse haben, diesem Fall mit Strafverfolgung zu begegnen. Hinderlich auch: foderale Strukturen in Cyber-Ermittlung und -Abwehr. Allein in Hessen sind elf staatliche Institutionen mit Cybercrime und -security beschaftigt. Zustandigkeitenwirrwarr, das sich nun lichten soll. Eine Initiative dazu startete die Bundesinnenministerin im Juli 2022. Es reicht nicht, dass das Bundesamt fur die Sicherheit in der Informationstechnik den Landern Amtshilfe leistet. So wie gerade in den letzten Monaten verstarkt. Bund und Lander mussen den Cyber-Gefahren koordiniert entgegentreten. Wenn die Ermittler im Rustungswettlauf mit den Cyberkriminellen nicht ins Hintertreffen geraten wollen, dann gilt es, besser und schneller zu werden: Wir finden immer wieder einen Weg und versuchen eben auch die Behordenlandschaft, sowohl die Justiz, als auch die Polizei anzutreiben. Wir arbeiten hier mit grosser Motivation und einer gewissen Arbeitsfreude. Denn eines muss man sagen: Es ist das spannendste Feld, das es in der Justiz und der Polizei gibt. Aber die zukunftigen Kommissare und Kommissarinnen werden ermitteln, wenn bereits etwas schief gelaufen ist, im Kampf um Daten und die Sicherheit kritischer Infrastrukturen. Vorbeugen ist eine andere Strategie. Fruh vorbeugen, wie hier in der Gesamtschule Niederwalgern bei Marburg: Themen: Internet, Social Media. Also, die Vanessa aus der Funften, die hat mich angesprochen. Die wurde von irgend jemandem auf Instagram angeschrieben, den sie gar nicht kannte. Sie wollte das gar nicht und wollte jetzt ein paar Tipps von uns. Wollen wir erst mal gucken, was sie schon angegeben hat bei Instagram? Um zu schauen, welche Tipps wir ihr geben sollten? Kannst du das mal kurz nachschauen? Ich bin elf Jahre alt, sie geht an die GSN und ihr voller Name ist Vanessa Berg. Sie mochte ja gerne Hilfe von euch haben. Was ware denn was, wo ihr sagt, das sollte man auf gar keinen Fall bei sich angeben in den sozialen Netzwerken oder bei Instagram? Man sollte auf jeden Fall nicht seine Adresse angeben. Weil sonst Leute ja ganz einfach zu einem nach Hause fahren konnten. Man sollte zum Beispiel auch nicht die Schule angeben, also die GSN jetzt in dem Fall. Weil man konnte ja auch zu der Schule fahren und da irgendwie stalken. Oder jemanden fragen, wo sie wohnt. Man sollte auch die Telefonnummer oder E-Mail nicht angeben. Mara Belger und Schulerinnen und Schuler der 7. Klasse treffen sich ein mal in der Woche. Diesmal geht es um Cybersicherheit am Beispiel eines fiktiven Instagram-Accounts. Sie sind eine Arbeitsgruppe im Projekt &quot;Make IT safe&quot;. Sie machen sich fit, um anderen Kindern an der Schule als Coaches zu helfen, im Umgang mit Computer und Handy. Was fallt euch noch ein? Man sollte auf jeden Fall nicht seinen vollen Namen angeben. Weil, da kann man schnell die Adresse rausfinden oder die Telefonnummer im Telefonbuch. Man sollte auch nicht personliche Fotos ... Etwa Selfies, Fotos von seinem Haus, seinem Zimmer, oder Haustieren. Man sollte auch das GPS ausstellen. Da man sonst zuruck verfolgen kann, wo das Foto gemacht wurde. Stunden ihrer Freizeit verbringen die Siebtklassler mit ihren Handys. Welche Spuren hinterlassen sie dabei? Wem konnten die fur welche Zwecke nutzen? Wie lassen sich Tauschung, Betrug und Datenklau vorbeugen? Skeptisch und aufmerksam zu sein, ist wichtig. Jede Eingabe will gut uberlegt sein: Wenn ich meine E-Mail-Adresse einfach irgendwo angebe. Ist ja nicht schlimm, ist ja nur meine E-Mail-Adresse. Was will man denn mit meiner E-Mail-Adresse anfangen? Weiss man in dem Alter ja gar nicht. Dann kriege ich Werbe- und Phishing-E-Mails. Vielleicht kriege ich auch E-Mails, wo ein Link ist mit: &quot;Wir bauchen ganz schnell eine Bestatigung zu einem Profil.&quot; Dann denkt man als Jugendlicher oder Jugendliche: Jetzt muss ich mich beeilen. Es wird ja auch Druck aufgebaut. Man druckt schnell drauf, und das bietet dann Leuten die Moglichkeit, die personlichen Daten zu klauen und damit alles Mogliche zu machen. Computer und Handy sind hilfreiche Werkzeuge, aber, verbunden mit Internet und sozialen Netzwerken, lauern immer auch Gefahren: Ich habe SMS bekommen, wo ich drauf klicken sollte, auf einen Link. Neulich kam auf meinem Handy eine Fake-Mitteilung. Da wurde mir nachher mitgeteilt, dass mein Handy gehackt wurde. Das hat aber nicht gestimmt. Dann wurde ich auf eine App verlinkt, die aber nichts mit Sicherheit zu tun hatte. Auch Martin Frost, der einst im Darkweb illegale Geschafte machte, besucht immer wieder Schulklassen. Er hat die Seiten gewechselt, will aufklaren und warnen. Diese Gefahr der Cyberangriffe, die wird unterschatzt. Du kannst Lander lahmlegen. Du kannst im schlimmsten Fall Blackouts provozieren. Den grosse Krieg gibt's schon lange im Verborgenen. Das kriegen wir nur nicht mit Panzern und Menschen gefuhrt. Der wird mit Cyber-Attacken gefuhrt. &quot;Make IT safe&quot;-Projekte wie diese werden mehr denn je gebraucht. Denn die jungsten Computer- und Smartphone Nutzer sind es, die die Zukunft unserer vernetzten Welt gestalten werden. Ihr Motto &quot;Mach IT sicher&quot; ist schon fast ein Hilferuf. Copyright Untertitel: hr 2022