So do what you can, and never be satisfied. Anticipation is the ultimate advantage Like, you're not 100% sure You can do it tomorrow is going to be better. What do you tell people when they ask you you know, how can I present like you? The thing that really really helps is that I've learned about the perspective to change my perspective, so for example I show up to give and I always remind people about being an effective is you have to show up you have to show up to give, you've seen something, you've that someone else thinks that's why they invited you to speak. The problem is the number of people and you can see it, it's very plain to see people ask a question and they say, or you could just tell me the answer because you know the answer But clearly they're trying to drive Every single slide of their PowerPoint has their Instagram, their email, Well, clearly they want you they want you to reach out the last slide is their website They have a taking mentality. They come up and the first thing they do &quot;Hi, my name is, you know, Dr. Bla-de-bla I have six PhDs, I've worked for and let me tell you a little something it's about them. It's very easy and very quick to discern The best speakers 100% of them you look at all the top TED folks you know, Sir Ken Robinson, Right! All of them are there to give. None of them want anything No nobody... I don't know any great speaker &quot;I'm going to get a standing ovation&quot; you may get one if you earn it. if they decide that that's not the reason you show up, How many of you guys How many of you by a show of hands know that public speaking is fundamental By show of hands how? How many of you by show of hands honestly speaking experience a little bit of fear when we talk about public speaking? and over the last three years, I've had and deliver presentations like this and what I've picked up on there are certain patterns that if applied can make If you follow these principles that I think I don't care I don't care what work you're in, I don't care what year you are, I believe if you apply you can literally transform where you are and take the journey Straightforward, Three A's of public speaking. Three things that I wanted and I believe if you take action on it you're going to be like, So number 1, authenticity engages. November 2017, I was afforded the opportunity and man, can I tell you I was excited. You got to imagine, ready 26 years old and I want to make this very clear so I'm thinking to myself I would give a talk at least Write that down. I talk to people conversationally, in the shower, I'm like, &quot;Okay, And I think to myself that's all I'm thinking. I'm like, &quot;Okay, should I, should I use or should I just use me So I'm- I'm researching and I'm watching I've watched more TED Talks and I'm like, &quot;Okay, Okay, I've seen good ones I've seen good ones without and what I notice is, I said, I'm going to ask my closest I'm going to take a poll. 12 people that I love, that know me well. I said, &quot;Sister, she goes, &quot;Yeah, something I go &quot;Mom, should I use a PowerPoint?&quot; She says, &quot;No PowerPoint, use you.&quot; I say &quot;Bro, should I use a PowerPoint?&quot; He goes, &quot;Yeah, you need the stats I said cool. I go through the entire list six - six I put the list down and I go, with an even number. I'm getting ready for the biggest And professionals, people that I love and it's six - six and I'm like how am I And I'm like wait I didn't ask one person I didn't ask myself I did not ask myself what I would be most When we talk about public speaking and why I say authenticity engages listen to me here you have to know yourself You have to speak from the gut because when you're talking to and you have to be yourself. If you can't be yourself you will never that I have to listen to me first in order to really deliver a message Number 2, awareness Awareness connects the speaker and this is what I mean. And so one of the speaking events I get the opportunity to- to speak And before the event you know, you want to be early, know your audience, know your crowd I hear like all this partying type thing And I go down and they have... they have an open bar and they had the open bar for hours they were lit guys, they were lit. Right? And so listen, I go to the event I'm in my mind, I'm thinking it's going this is what you need to do and I walk into a party and so as a speaker like I was prepared to do one thing, and there's literally like... the wave, the energy is like, I hope he's going to, you know, that's not the content they call me up and they're as quiet as you guys are. They're literally staring at me like, And at that moment, I said you know what, and I said before I begin I'm coming from Sacramento and I hopped on the plane and we were chatting it up and he thought I was going to and I told him, &quot;No, I'm actually giving and the look on his face was blank and he said, &quot;Excuse me, where?&quot; and I said, &quot;Sioux Falls&quot; then he said these three words He said, &quot;Are you sure?&quot; and I said that and there was a man sitting And he literally laughed He lost it. I'm talking chair went back. He's laughing so hard, that everybody... you guys ever caught this, when somebody the whole crowd literally And I start laughing if this is how it's going to be And at that moment I realized something because the old me would have been that I would have never had the audacity, situational awareness is what I mean. When you speak or present sometimes things will not go as planned and there's no way to plan for it. And what you have to do is be fluid and malleable And if you have situational awareness what often can happen is I said huh, open bar, alcohol, social event, if I switch it just like this and let them know the audience will be on my side. Number 3, audacity Audacity informs and inspires. You have to be bold in order to How many you guys Fear of an opinion of other, fear of not being good enough, fear of what you look like. We know that fear drives most of us and I'm here to tell you boldness is what you need. If you want to deliver something I'm passionate about this, I believe this because I live this. I'm telling you, you have to be bold. You can't half-step into your presentation you have to be bold you cannot half-step and one of the ways in which Story includes power. Stories are powerful, they're the most powerful thing because the brain operates in pictures and a story has the ability in the mind of another individual. They did a study about TED Talks, I'm talking the million, the million hits. The top TED Talks, Stories can be crossed over whether you're telling whether it's Martin Luther King whether it's a president of a country. A story is the thing that allows- has time sit Huh. A story is powerful right? Never tell a story but never make a point Like use the story to drive home It crosses every industry, every... a story will get you there.