(soft instrumental music) - This is one of my favorite because if you think it becomes really counter-intuitive and you have to dig even deeper than that to solve the mystery at the core of it. You may have seen this but I can always guarantee that you haven't seen an I certainly wasn't able to find one. It's an experiment that can twist light. Specifically, it can change the direction of polarized light. You probably know what but just to recap. So light is an oscillation in the electric and magnetic fields that permeate the universe. So, you know, if light that represents an oscillation and perpendicular to that, an oscillation in the magnetic field. For simplicity sake, it's a good idea to just and just focus on the electric field just cause it makes diagrams cleaner, but just know that the magnetic field is oscillating as well and it's perpendicular So you've got light traveling towards you, here's the oscillation and it's going up and down but it could just as easily In fact, it could be oscillating But because it's a actually it can be a superposition of all those different directions. And that's what unpolarized light is. It's light that is in a super oscillating in all different directions. If you pass unpolarized light like this one, then it restricts all those oscillations down into just one direction. So the light reaching the and I can change the direction by, you know, turning This computer monitor has like most computer monitors actually. So all the light coming from this monitor is already polarized. If I put another and change the angle, So if I put the polarizing to the polarization of the then it all gets blocked. But if I line them up, then the polarizing filter Here's the crazy part though, if I put this cylinder full of sugar water between the monitor and the filter, now look some of the light gets through and that's because the sugar is twisting the polarized light. It's changing the direction of it so that some of it can now The more sugar you put in the way, the more the light turns. So I've chosen a concentration of sugar that turns the light about 90 degrees. It's approximate because different wavelengths which is why the color changes This whole thing was mind I couldn't figure out how that are all oriented could possibly have this effect, could possibly lead to a net turning in the clockwise direction never counter-clockwise, that doesn't make sense. Like surely if there's a that slightly turns the light clockwise then there's gonna be another molecule oriented in a different way that will turn it slightly The net result should be no twist in the direction of the Like it felt like a That's not the solution by the way, to get to the answer we need to look again at the superposition of So imagine you've got some lights and it's in a superposition of two states, one is polarized horizontally, the other is polarized vertically. So you've got an electric field oscillating up and down in one state, and you've got the electric field oscillating side to What does the superposition look like? We can actually just think about it like summing up those two waves. So look at this point what is the sum of the displacement of the electric field at this point? Well, it's displaced a and a little bit horizontally. The superposition of those two states is just this point here, right? It's a little bit vertical and So it's out here. If you look at the superposition of the two states at this point, well the electric field is not from the access at this point. So the superposition is zero as well. Then at this point, you're a and you're a little bit down. And so the super position at that point is diagonally And if we do that for all then we get this result here. In other words, the can just be thought of as a third state which is at 45 degrees to those two. Let's do that same exercise again but this time shift, the forward through a quarter of a wavelength. Let's see what happens now, looking at this point, the superposition must be because the vertical component is zero. At this point, the superposition must be because the horizontal component is zero. At this point, the superposition because the vertical component is zero. At this point, the superposition because the horizontal component is zero. Let's join those points together and this is the result, So this is clockwise and you can have counter-clockwise circularly polarized light as well. So you can think of as the superposition of two that are perpendicular to each other, where one of them is offset You know, if you search online for things like circularly polarized light and superposition, you'll find diagrams like this one. What's interesting is, there's a diagram that you won't find, or at least I wasn't able to find and it's really important And it's a diagram of the because it turns out of two circularly polarized states, one clockwise, one anti-clockwise gives you linearly polarized light. So that this is maybe the first time this diagram is appearing something that I have been able to find almost certainly in video form. Look, you've got two States here, one is polarized in the one is polarized in the Let's look at some points So look, at this point the two so the superposition must Here, you've only got horizontal and they're in opposite directions so they cancel out. Here, the two waves meet again, so the superposition Here, the two horizontal so it must be here. So let's draw all those points in and see what the result is. It's linearly, polarized light. So that's really important. You can think of linearly polarized light as the superposition of one circularly polarized the other circularly polarized in the counter-clockwise direction. So what happens when light like this passes through a solution of sugar like the light coming from my monitor? Well, I want you to imagine that the solution of sugar It's actually nothing but I want you to imagine So you've got all these all in different orientations. Let's have a look at what happens when the light passes through a single one of those molecules and it happens to be oriented So the light is linearly polarized, which we can think of as the superposition of two circularly polarized states going in opposite directions. And hopefully you can will have a very different experience of traveling through The clockwise circularly polarized state is in step with the pasta, it's nestled into the Whereas the anti-clockwise state is in opposition to those turns. It's constantly bumping For the purposes of illustration, I've chosen a wavelength of light that matches the spacing In reality, it's not gonna but hopefully you can see that those two different directions of circularly polarized light will have a different experience of passing through the pasta. Why does that matter? Well, you probably already know that light travels more slowly in glass. And so the peaks and troughs of the wave have to bunch up to compensate. In other words, the And that's true when light actually not just glass. It's also true when light like our spirally pasta molecule here. Let's suppose hypothetically that the clockwise circularly polarized component of our light interacts more strongly with the pasta because it spends more time Well, in that case we to be slowed down down more. To relate that back to the language that we used to talk about light, you would say that the index is higher for clockwise than anti-clockwise The two components of light see when they interact with this pasta. So if the counter-clockwise is traveling more than the clockwise component of the light, it will have traveled further by the time it exits the In other words, the counter-clockwise relative to the What does that do to the Hopefully you can see from this animation that if you shift one of of polarized light forward, it causes the superposition So if we have a solution of sugar where all the molecules are all pointing in the same direction, they're all aligned vertically like this, all throughout the solution, then we would expect the And to reiterate why, that's because this is the superposition of two circularly polarized light states and they have a different One goes more slowly than the other, so by the time they leave, the phase between them has shifted and that twists the superposition. But a solution of sugar is not like that, it's a jumble of molecules And this is where we have to correct my miss assumption at the start, because my thinking was like, look if you've got a, you know, pasta, or a molecule oriented this way in space and that's twisting light like this and all you need to do that's oriented the other way and that will twist it So the net result of all should be no rotation at all. But that's a mistake because look, what happens if I turn It's genuinely unremarkable, Look at the direction of the spiral, so as you move up through the edge moves from left to right. And if we switch it upside down, maybe we expect that to reverse so that it goes from right to left. But look, as turn it it stays the same. The edge of the pasta still as you move up through the pasta. In other words, it doesn't matter if you have the pasta the experience of light passing The clockwise and will have a different experience, and that difference in regardless of which way up the pasta is, the experiences don't switch. You know this about spirals already from everyday experience. Look, here's a bolt and the inside of this and I can turn the nut upside down, right? And it still works. The explanation isn't complete because sugar molecules They look like this. So what is the fundamental attribute that these two things have in common that matters in this scenario? Well, it's handedness. They both have a handedness. In other words, they don't If you looked at this pasta in a mirror, the mirror image of the pasta would be different in a fundamental way, in the same way that my Like if you look at my you wouldn't see another And they're fundamentally different. Like if you could take that right hand from inside the mirror like a ghost, and try and line it up with the left hand, you wouldn't be able to there's no way to get And not just because my and not just because I'm married. The same is true for these molecules here. If you took a mirror image the molecule would be You wouldn't be able to and line it up on top of this one. To really hammer the point home, let's see what happens with molecules that do like these ones here. So look, let's orient And let's imagine light traveling up through the molecule like this. And it's again, it's a superposition of circularly polarized in that direction, and in that direction. Maybe you could persuade yourself that they would have passing through this molecule. How would you then undo that? How would you reverse that? What all you need is the somewhere else in the path of the light. So let's put the mirror And they really are the see again they're the mirror image there. And so it passes through one and then it passes through the other. And whatever preferential versus the right-handed is But of course, because these they're just the same molecule, right? So you'll find the mirror image of this orientation in the solution. What about this sugar molecule then? Imagine the light passing Hopefully you can persuade yourselves that clockwise circularly polarized light will have a different experience to counter-clockwise as it passes through this molecule. To undo that effect, you would need the light to but a mirror image of itself up here. And you can't create the in mirror image by flipping it in any direction, because the molecule has a handiness. It doesn't have mirror symmetry. You can't create the just by reorienting it. So there you go. It's because sugar and it's because linearly polarized light, can be thought of as the superposition of two states of in opposite directions. By the way, you may have heard of sugar being referred to as dextrose. Dextro meaning to the right, because dextrose or glucose clockwise and counterclockwise. I've been using an app called Blinkist for a little over a year now. They're the sponsor of this video. Blinkist does something remarkable. It's an app that from non-fiction books They're also audio narrated, so you can listen to them in the car or while you're doing housework And I thought I would that I've consumed in this So they are &quot;Sapiens&quot;, amazing book, &quot;Digital Minimalism&quot;, &quot;Freakonomics&quot;, amazing book. I actually read the whole thing after reading the &quot;Blink&quot;. &quot;How to Talk So Kids Will Listen &amp; Listen So Kids Will Talk&quot;, it's a parenting book. It worked really well for our kids. &quot;How to Make Friends &amp; Influence People&quot;. You know, it's interesting with &quot;How to Talk So Kids Will Listen &amp; Listen So Kids Will Talk&quot;. They're basically in a clever way to get what you want. It's amazing. Actually, I read the whole after doing the 15-minute Blinks. They also have full audio and members get them for like 65% off on average. The first 100 people to go will get one week absolutely No strings attached, And if you wanna carry you get 25% off as well. The link is also in the description. So check out Blinkist today. I hope you enjoyed this video. If you did, don't forget to hit subscribe and I'll see you next time. (soft instrumental music)