New York City and London greatest city in the world, to live. New York City is home to and was ranked one of the world in 2022, tied with Whereas London, with its residents, was deemed 28th The cost of living in New London. It would cost month to maintain the same would get you in London. I spent so much more money But New York City residents Londoners, so businesses Without any contest. New York is a lot more The appetite for price stronger here. Like, there just like what is the most Rarely do they feel that U.K. residents tend to pay the U.S., but the New York City than the rest In general, the tax burden it is in the States. On the other hand, that what we would deem public expensive in the States that on top of the taxes. The difference between New see in London isn't as taxes, but it is where you have relatively York. The U.K. Has a value added tax of So how much does it cost to London? And why are people Hi, my name is Lucy and I'm living in London. Lucy has been challenging budget for everyday This is day two of trying to week living in London. It was so interesting to York is with other cities It really makes you spending. Let's start with your where you live. Housing. Rent prices in New York City London. A one bedroom in the city $3,800 in New York. In London, a comparable $2,600. Rent is cheaper in London. In New York, my apartment tiny, but not gigantic It's like a walk up in the building. We So like mid-tier apartment In London, I pay PS1,300, $1,600 for a room in a six We have laundry. We have a garden. We have a gardener. We have a housekeeper. I do think the current expensive for London, and I something cheaper if I backyard before, and it's And now I don't want to Hi, I'm Lily Slater and I I now live in a studio Heights, which is, an like in Islington, in There, I could get a one studio. Grocery prices also are 70% Except for milk and items are between 27% and York. Groceries here are so cheap. Every time I go to the at the prices. Like when I York, this would be double. There were things I bought yogurt was like a pound. You got it at Tesco, like a London, and then here it frequently. New York is also more having fun. The culture of spending is Social things mean spending Like if you go out for expensive or you go to a expensive and there are spend time with your the U.K., in London at really exist here because that are affordable because live in nice houses with rooms and kitchens. Tipping culture is also a restaurants and bars gratuity on service on top service fee. This can cost of going out. Alcohol can be a lot cheaper Like, you can get a pint of they still have places cocktails, which is the same get a $25 cocktail and feel afterwards. New York may be more tend to make more money and Londoners. The average New Yorker earns per week, whereas London's than $1000 or PS805. Because of this, local is about 19% higher than it When I took out my most big pay bump, and my dad, was like astonished by how making. And then he came to later and was like, Oh far because he was, he and coffee and it cost $15 for whatever. But we also have The United Kingdom income whole country. They're that as you earn more marginal tax rate. The U.K. has four tax rate set at a little over USD. Compared to U.S. income tax brackets, that's for such a high rate. It's more difficult to New Yorkers pay in income U.K., we have state income clean table of tax brackets New York has the highest top when you combine state and in the country. But the top of federal tax rates. So you can have folks who incomes or modest incomes facing tax rates that are 40s. My friends just like can't what their salary is going So think if it is like either side of that number. Think I might be like 28 something, but it's pretty We also have to factor in taxes on things that you Those are called sales and value added taxes in the The value added tax in most goods and services. In New York, total sales But there's one crucial In the U.K., taxes are built stores. In the U.S., you own. It's more part of the way It's like, it's a number as being separate to the it's two separate things, more like a burden here, You may be wondering, if in London, why are things Well, there's a lot going comes to how businesses are But that process depends on Businesses also pay that tax for their business. And this can lead to the business buys the thing then they sell the thing the way, even at a 5% This can build up into kind their total tax burden relatively high. Value added taxes are The business is able to get they paid at an earlier When they sell that thing business for final consumer. So why are these cities so The short answer is because want to live there. New York was the top city followed by London, Out magazine survey. London and New York are hubs with a broad set of opportunities. I work at social justice. My sector is just less in the U.K. than it is Both cities also have cultural events. New York $35 billion industry that and generates roughly $700 the city. But those stats are restaurant, retail and of businesses as a result been a rebound. As of April around 2% from their peak London makes up 25% of the leisure economy, which means responsible for generating nearly $53 billion USD in Between March 2020 and June the U.K. nighttime cultural billion in business, or In my experience traveling London was the place that I New York in terms of going on, there's always You're never going to be what am I going to do this Both cities also do not which can save on Walkable cities and good and they become more valued. If you make places places, people vote with expensive. London and New York both transportation systems, but $2.75 per ride, whereas in travel, the more you pay. I think I prefer the subways cheaper and they're 24/7. There are more subway stops are in all the other cities put together. The tube is nicer than the run 24/7 and they have The London Tube is a lot, a cleaner. Like I never saw a Ultimately, New York City for your wallet right now. So if city life is for you the price, it may just come My impression is that the about New York. I think whereas like people are so that they will put up with it is and how expensive it And don't feel like that's