There are 8 billion people who exist in the world aren't human. You are being watched right now, outside our planet's atmosphere. But they your computer. They listen through your phone. be advised; something is watching you back. of where you go, of what you search for on about you, they attempt to scrutinise. To some degree, AI is an aspect of modern society a little uncomfortable about it. But if you think algorithms that companies use to try to convince something that governments have been developing above that - military grade AI, the sort used by Hidden in hard drives in a secret, remote particular we're going to take a look at. Its I'm Alex McColgan, and you're watching Astrum. AI that America is using in its space-based it doesn't just receive data from satellites, it do? And what does it mean for humanity's Obviously, as a disclaimer: this is a things we don't know. But by looking at accounts from former officials, and by examining we can make some pretty educated assumptions. a lot of sense. Whether you are a company or a nation trying to stay on top of threats everyone is doing, and also extremely difficult at the beginning of this video, there are 8 has a complex life filled with routines, hobbies, data that it would take to keep track of everyone to keep up with all your friends on social media. There are approximately 100 billion stars in the observable universe. If you took as little it would take 6.3 quadrillion years to stars is a mammoth task beyond the scope of any So, for surveillance or science, there are that can trawl through the endless data and find processing large amounts of information quickly. of astronomy, as it can identify interesting at. Only, AI doesn't care whether we're above the are being used to look at the actions of humans looking at the stars. Which is why you may find a subject with your friend, and then suddenly you This usually isn't just coincidence. Rather, for marketable trends. We all have a digital visit a webpage, log in at a certain IP address, about ourselves. Googling pet stores? You probably food or products. Buying a plane ticket? Well, able to convince you to buy a hotel room, travel are keen to gain this information, and often we on your webpage asking you to accept cookies, you do on that page. Apps on your phone ask you that permission without reading it, there have mic to listen in to your day-to-day conversations, information will then be sold on to advertisers, This can already be unfortunate, as you might not A pregnant woman might not want to tell the world figures it out, she and her partner might get anyone off who happens to see their phone. about businesses, but governments? Then much more vast, and the stakes much higher. protecting the lives of their citizens from digital profile of persons of interest can be the or hundreds of lives being lost. So governments information as possible. Google searches. and video. Financial transactions. Weather but the sheer quantity of information available analyse everything to spot the patterns. AI like Sentient are not just able to analyse learning, adapting AI with the ability to direct of the information about it is classified, but the revealing some clues as to its abilities. Sentient and processing, meaning specialists will feed meaning it will evaluate the data itself to try to If a foreign power's jets are normally stationed at another near the border of a neighbouring be about to launch an attack. And then Sentient flag what it's identified as interesting, Sentient locations to fill in gaps in its knowledge. That's the satellites are in place and Sentient data and try to predict where it needs to go How do we know this is real? Firstly, because same thing. BlackSky is using its large numbers of "foresight". By using space-based intelligence, what's happening right now on battlefields and airport being constructed. Put raw data like that analysis - they're figuring out what's about to to transport troops quickly to a new warzone. The jets in a planned offensive. In their own words, to act not just fast, but first. BlackSky is overhead flybys of small satellites. With its 15 helping it build a picture of exactly where headed, and where they might be vulnerable. This lost so many of its ships to Ukrainian attacks. National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency (NGA) military and intelligence community algorithms action based on those interpretations, question. And there's a lot of really good If BlackSky can do that, it is assumed that does not just use satellite images, it uses data from 40,000 news sources, 100 8 social networks, 5,000 environmental sensors, according to a Verge article on the subject. A retired CIA analyst suggested the answer is weather records, pharmaceutical purchases. All patterns - or abnormal behaviour. There are UFO's - I'd love to know what it found. exactly what Sentient is paying attention to, as information for their own advantage. But the sheer unlike humans who would be swamped trying to make the noise to identify the key points of interest. it certainly suggests that privacy is going spoken before about how satellite images and this could mean governments can keep tabs looking at you physically - they're examining and more. Which is... fine if you have nothing Yet there will always be benefits. Sentient will Government prepare for them and keep its citizens science ever gets AI of the same level, we might automated - AI looking through telescopes to and then launching their own probes to take AI to evaluate the final result. A lot of If it's any consolation for American viewers, on when the US can spy on its own citizens, easy - if the US is developing AI like this, it's companies are doing the same thing too. Even the built up on their staff - filled with information Beyond that, problems can arise when our tools terrifying Skynet scenario, but instead what that humans will struggle to "check its workings". when the accounting system Horizon that was about 900 employees of theft and fraud. simply because the Post Office assumed the In New Zealand, a woman was incorrectly identified software struggled to precisely identify men and AI tasked with making scientific discoveries could of the universe instead of enhancing it. information if it's been taught to ignore spy balloon was caught flying over the US, to detect things moving at the speed of missiles they adjusted their settings, several other their radars and were subsequently shot down. necessarily spy balloons, it does prove that sail right past the artificial systems designed very good at answering questions, but is not What happens if powerful AI programs do not assumptions could creep in, particularly scrutinising? It's a concerning thought. being created about you, and without proper there's not a lot you can do to stop data-broker clicking "reject all" on those cookies pop-ups on the arduous process of getting those companies campaign to governments to put tight restrictions of AI like Sentient to trawl through all of that footage, and other sources, to then attempt and send satellites to key locations to see if even more predictions... well, it's certainly a tool. It makes perfect sense why we might want it. a similar impact one day on our relationship with the only one who will see what that impact If the problem of AI is that once your data is it it's no wonder that tools have started to be place nordvpn the sponsor of today's video of this out there it encrypts what you're doing learn anything about you personally from your other useful options too for instance its internet where hackers trade personal data and sold giving you a heads up that it might be time Pro not only checks links you're about to click also scan downloaded files for malware will be active to work setting it up is simple too in today's age I think that having a tool like a little less surveillance from AI scan my get 4 months extra on your 2-year nordvpn plan back guarantee so you can safely go give it a to our end goal of 1,000 Astrumnauts on patreon the call the closer we get the more it's looking bring back astr answers so submit your video you'd like to become an astronaut you can join join you'll be able to watch the whole video questions to our team once again a huge thank meanwhile click the link to this playlist for