This is the east-west scene. I'm a reporter. Dongming, the war is very urgent now. Miss Sanning, it's time for an injection. Azithromycin Aren't I supposed to be at the front? Where is this? I thought I was hurt. Why is everything all right? Mother Ning has packed all her bags for you. Bought you the latest train ticket. Let's go. Remember, I went to the Lu family to be an adopted daughter. We must seize every opportunity to climb up. You, you are. Oh, stop dawdling. I heard about that. Lu Jinyang, the eldest son of the Lu family, is a talented person. It's also an air force that flies planes. Even though you're going to be an adopted daughter. But you have to find a way to marry Lu Jinyang There will be endless splendor for the rest of my life. Wait a minute. Get married. Oh, my God. No matter how bad it is. In this air force compound. There are many gay men with good conditions. Because of your beauty. They must be fascinated by it. Then you will choose a good one to marry. Alas, let the mother-in-law arrange a good job after marriage. You don't have to worry for the rest of your life. Go. Team Wu, I remember you telling me Your father has died trying to adopt two. Daughter of an old comrade-in-arms One is Ye Qiao. There's another one named Wen Ning, right? Then that must be Wen Ning. I'm not talking about Lu team. Your father wants to adopt the daughter of an old comrade-in-arms You should at least know their character. Look at those two mother and daughter couples. This is a conspiracy at all. I know. I can see that. How was the plane? Is the fuselage seriously damaged? Troops Troops, don't worry. There are already relevant personnel on the plane taking a lunch break. This time the Nisai border has repelled three enemy planes. A call from the capital It shows that this task has been accomplished very well. That's good Thank you I have this ha ha. Ha Yes. Yes The leader ordered you to return as soon as possible. Speed has an urgent task. I already bought it. The latest train ticket Let's go. Hey, cigarettes, cigarettes. It's a hot day today. Today's morning paper is a blockbuster. Today's morning paper Are you going to buy something hot today? 1978 I'm back in the '70s. And dressed as a notorious The maid of Hu Ben's family of dignitaries Sold the goods. There is really no better place to go than the Lou family. Then go and have a look. How old is the little girl? Is there a job? I am the director of the admissions office of the Kim Art Troupe. Look how good you are. Are you interested in the gold art troupe? Special recruitment channels can be recommended. You don't have to take an exam. No, I'm not busy right now. Ah! By the way, I took a clear look at that for you. That Wen Ning. He has a date. Have come to talk about marriage. Ah! As soon as I heard that Pan Gaozhi And left right away. I think he must be scheming against you. Want to marry you. That's really snobbish. What an opportunity. Why aren't you interested? Put it on the flying string It's no problem to marry a chief. Aunt, do you have a daughter? What a good job this office is. The director of the recruitment office is also here. Why don't you fight for your daughter? I can't decide. Your daughter will marry a chief in the future. You will become the chief mother-in-law. Come out and take the train after that. You can buy a berth ticket. There's no need to take someone else's place here. This is my seat. This little hoof. Don't you dare stop me. I'll let you know how good I am. Not to mention that the lesbian is quite passionate. It is not easy to believe that this art troupe has a special opportunity. I was so afraid that he would take it seriously. Is to be cheated of money and sex. Then why don't you be a hero to save beauty? Er, hey, I saw through it myself. I don't have to do it. Hey, hey. Ah, you also think this lesbian is beautiful. So you're not face-blind. Ha ha ha Troops, troops. This is the machine just now. A policeman's lesbian. Seriously, I think you two deserve each other. If you two are going to be together, I don't know how beautiful the baby will be as soon as it is born. Hey, hey, hey Sun Changzheng I didn't know you had the potential to be a matchmaker. If you are so free, go back and increase your training. Uh Deer team, no. Deer team Where have you been Uh, uh, bathroom. Yeah Ladies and gentlemen The train will arrive soon. This train not good There was something wrong with the water. But daughter-in-law easily left home and let go. Let me go No, they're human traffickers. What's going on? It's not really a human trafficker, is it? My daughter-in-law is angry with me. Made everyone laugh. Ah, yeah, you had a fight. What human traffickers? Did you quarrel on the train? Hello, passengers. Passengers from Taitung Station to Taitung Station to get off Please listen and prepare to rush the road. Help! Ah! Ah! They saved me. They eat human traffickers. They're gonna tie me up. Embarrass me. Let him go. He'll leave me alone. Cold wind, save me! help me! Look who dares to touch him. Son of a bitch, I'm gonna kill you. The troops took it away. Halt To me Don't go anywhere. Eat it. Get it back. Let me go Is that what you do to whoever saved you? See who I am. No Army, are you in there? The guy in the army. Oh. Ouch. My darling. This meat is not interested in it. Both of them are so stupid. The army is indeed Ah, my heart has been soft recently. Behave yourself. Stand still. you you Conductor It's the antidote. Take care of him Uh, uh, Captain. Didn't you say that the flight suit can't be touched casually? Why didn't you go around that guy's name just now? Or do you want people to make a promise? Cut the crap. I'm going back to base. Hey, road team. This can't be your first kiss, is it? Uh, Land Corps, aren't you going home today? Those two cousins are home. You have to do everything you can to marry Zhou Jinyang There will be endless splendor for the rest of my life. I'm not going back. But the Marines, even if you get to the base, The leader will still ask you personal questions. At that time, he will still invite you to the fellowship. Well, you still need to be prepared. Maybe. This will be the case. I said Jinyang. Look at you. You're 25. Too old and too young. Look at the tech guy next door. He is as old as you. No, the child is two years old. If you don't get married properly, Refuse to fall in love again I stopped your training. personal problem After all this time, let me go. What are you thinking Ah, deer beak. You wait for me. What did the ear do just now? Like a hooligan. Even though it's just one person. But don't mention it if you like it. Was Yes, you are. I'm Ye Qiao. Don't you remember me? We were supposed to meet here. You and my father are all subordinates of Uncle Lu. Died in order to save Uncle Lu during the mission. Just in time to accept us as adopted daughters. Take it to the Lu family together. I remember. The owner of the garden grew up They are all compared with this Ye Qiao. Ye Qiao is affectionate and kind. Take advantage of how greedy democracy is. I'm sorry. I slept in the car just now. I didn't react for a moment. let's go Lao Lu You don't have a problem with Shouyang at night. The child's parents died since he was a child. Grandparents are dead, too. have no one to depend on to fall back on It is indeed pitiful. This is Wen Ning. He has real parents. I hear it has a bad reputation. Preoccupied with climbing the branch. He came to our house. In case I take a fancy to our Jingniang. Oh, come on. Lien Wanning's father is a soldier under me. I do, and he sacrificed for his country. This leaves an orphan and widowed mother I am the leader. Must take more care of Mr. Lu. Director Kim, the two girls are here. Ha! come on! come on! Hello, Uncle Lu and Aunt Lu. Come and sit down. Isn't this the man who saved me on the train? he He is Lu Jinqiang. This is my eldest son Lu Junya. 25 years old. I'm a pilot. Oh, right. Where's Junya? I thought I made a deal with him. There are two sisters coming on the first day today. Tell him to come back? He said he would not come back if there was an emergency in the team. In addition, the training on the base is really tense. I don't believe that. That's not polite at all. It's not like being a brother. Hello, it's Jiran. Your two sisters have already arrived. Your dad was just talking about you. Mom, the gift is in my room. Please transfer it for me. That gift box is for Ye Qiao. As for that book for Wen Ning Your son didn't forget it. Aunt Zhang, go to his room. Take out all the gifts for your two sisters. That's not good enough. It's a pen. It's too expensive. I can't take it. Leave this to Brother Jinyang. I usually use a carbon pen. Hey Now that I give it to you, Just keep it. Obviously thank Brother Yang for the book. It's not me. What kind of collection is a book post? Come on, open it. What do you mean He thinks there's something wrong with my mind. Just hate me so much. Sister of the ideological Education Department of the Song Dynasty What do you mean I'll ask her now. Uncle du, Aunt Qin. I think there's been a misunderstanding. Brother du must have given me this book to encourage me He wanted to tell me No matter what kind of difficulties we encounter. As long as you believe in the power of the party and the people All conspiracies will eventually There are very few young people nowadays. As thoughtful as you are. Yes, since there is a grudge. I'll get you an explanation. He can't be angry with you on weekdays. No. Uncle Lu No. It is better to think more than to do less. Now Lu Jinyang must hate me even more. Comrade Lu Jinyang Please don't use the means in the wrong place. Pay attention to evidence when doing things There should be a pattern in life. I have to go home sometime these days. Let me ask you how many sisters to explain. Explain it to your sister Wen Ning. Dad, I know all about him. There is no misunderstanding. I'm not going to fight him. And he won't be his brother. That's called prejudice. I saw the girl Wen Ning today She is an enlightened and simple lesbian. You must come back and listen. My dad, Xiao Jing, I'm hanging up. The Marine Corps is your father. Your dad's not a normal year. Didn't even take the initiative to call you? You want me to go home. Ah, I said that this lesbian is really good enough. You took care of your father so soon. I underestimated him. I'm not going back. Yeah, okay. Then I'll go back to sleep. Ah! Ah! Land team Ouch. Oops. I said the land team. Your penchant for cleanliness is too serious, isn't it in the middle of the night? And wash the sheets. This is also washing the sheets. This. Hemorrhoid list Go back to bed. It's the road team. I'm going to bed. sleep I had this dream for the first time in years. Lu Jinyang must have heard of my previous reputation. I hate me very much. Aunt Qin is like a thief guard again. I'm afraid I'll hook up with his son. It's okay to be as far away as possible. This money is not enough for two meals. Alas, we still have to find a way to work and make money. I'm timid. you scared me to death. I didn't dare to come out until Wen Ning and the Lu family fell asleep. Be careful What are you afraid of? you dare to hook up as soon as you come to the compound. I thought I was coming with you. Wen Ning is a bold one. I didn't think it was you. You say you I can't make a few phone calls to my children all the year round. As soon as you call him, you scold him. You made him afraid to go home. Fat child That's right. Wen Ning, this girl Indeed, indeed. Open and bright Comrade Qin Lan, I never miss the way I look at people. Then Wen Ning is a good boy. The eyes are clear Have a decent figure The ideological consciousness is also high. Does Jinyang have any misunderstanding about him? More contact will solve the old road. That. You two, come here. You two, do me a favor. This forbidden thing. Left it at home. I'm busy today. You two sent me to the air force base to stop talking. I happen to have a meeting, too. Get along Is there any misunderstanding? It will be untied in time. Don't worry if he dares to bully you. You come back, you tell me. Uncle supports you. Uncle Lu, thank you. Uncle Lu, you're right. When I saw brother Jianyang today, I already spoke up for you. Uncle Lu, Aunt Qin. We won't eat. We'll send it as soon as possible. Don't keep brother Jianyang waiting. Go by yourself. If I'm not going, you really don't want to meet my little brother. Is it difficult? You robbed someone in the air force compound these days. I didn't rob anyone. I'll go back first. Ha ha! help! That's you, you little bitch! run! Go back to Uncle Lu. Come on! Lobule Why are you running so fast? What happened? It's okay. I just forgot something. I just came to pick up something. Ah! Ah! Shit. I'll kill you today. Why hasn't Night Bridge come yet? Ha I really want to see me with hooligans today. Aah! Ah! Ah! To take the lead is to stop Oh, my God, you. I'll give you a ride back. I sent Jin Xiaowan to the police station. Relax. Let go. If you are attractive, don't act alone. Not always so lucky. If it wasn't for me today, I really only have one dead one. Be more careful in the future. Thank you, comrade. You've saved my life twice. How about this? If you and that comrade have time, I'll treat you some other time. You hurt your foot. I'll treat you. Uh... No, no, no. I was just careless. It doesn't matter if you twist it. Come here Sit down. Don't waste your time. Take off your shoes. Our troops are often injured in training. So I will take the fall and damage with me. Medicine for injury Take it easy. Okay It's been reset. Next, I'll teach you how to use the medicine bar. Ah, no, I'm fine. Don't think about it. Just putting on the medicine. Uh, comrade. We've already met twice. I don't even know your name. My name is ... Ningning, Ningning, right? Ha, Ning Ning. Good name. Good name. Oh, that's right. My name is Sun Changzheng. His name is Lu Jingyang. It's the captain of the special operations flight team. There he is The Marine Corps don't usually see such a big appetite. Why did you order so many dishes today? Eat Nothing Ms. Sun, the goddess Lu. Thank you for today. If it wasn't for you, I can't sit here and eat safely. comrade You really have to thank our classmates this time. If it wasn't for the fact that he didn't come home on holiday that day, Although it is not convenient for me to buy shoes for my colleagues. Send a present. My life is completely different. You can't keep your mouth shut when you eat. Yes Comrade Ping an is a local. Then why do you go home on vacation? Yeah Comrade Ning, you don't know Where's our captain? There are two more sisters of the president in the family. On weekdays, she doesn't pay much attention to lesbians. Er, it must be because there are so many women in the family. That's why I came to the army to hide from my youth. So... Uncle Song is really a nuisance. Comrade checkout This table must cost a lot of money. I hope I can afford it. Your table has already been closed. I've been married. Ah! Well, how much is our table? a few tickets. 12 yuan? there are six tickets left. girl That's your date, isn't it? That's very generous of you. Hard comrades Er, I ordered a lot of food today. Why don't you take these back to eat? Hey, no, no. Let's get our troops back. Oh, hard comrades. Our flight brigade The food is good. There is meat at every meal. You can take these back. It was agreed that it would be my treat and let you sit down. You know what? are you guys free at 6: 00 tomorrow night? I'll treat you to the movies. What a coincidence. It just so happens that our army has handed out free movie tickets. Uh, I'll be with the land team. Let's go and see it together. How can this be embarrassed? Hey, it's okay. The worst thing is that you can buy us dinner next time. Okay, then. It's a deal. Next time it's my treat. Yeah. Okay. Thank you. I'm gonna go. All right All right, take care. No, I did a good job this time. I saw it a long time ago. You treat this girl differently. It's none of your business. Why is this thing so awkward? Do you like it or not? Yeah Yeah, you got up again in the middle of the night. You wash your hair again in the middle of the night Don't sleep yet. I want to go to practice. Nini, I came back to call someone the other day. I didn't see the box later. Are you all right It's okay. A kind-hearted man saved me the other day. If it's all right, I'll go first. Hello It's time to eat. You're going out. I went out to look for a job today. You don't have to wait for me to eat. On the nose Today, we will also invite Lu Xieyao and Sun Changzheng to see a movie. Then I'll go first. By the way, Xiaoye, did you see Jinyang the other day? Brother Jinyang was not here that day. What happened after I came back to get my stuff? I saw Wen Ning with a man. I'll take him there alone. But I believe Wen Ning must be looking for a job this time. Not fooling around with another man. Looking for a job I think he's trying to climb the ladder. Regardless of him, let's eat first. Comrade du Why are you the only one? Comrade Sun? Oh, he doesn't have a stomachache. So just the two of us. Then why don't you go? It's nothing to a tool. This is embarrassing We are the ones who really suffer. Drink Some Water Why is this soda hot? Why is it getting hotter and hotter? And in the sea, How did I touch him? How did I touch his arm? Where's my soda? Soda water Lot of times to lie Ah, Comrade Li. It's not seven feet next to it. That's your date, isn't it? You two really deserve each other. Just like the shadow on that poster. This is not my date. I know. Not anymore. Just meet the parents later. If there is a house and a car, There are cars and discounts. There are cheap BMW and you. When your family meets the parents, it must be very affordable. comrade You don't want your technology. Comrade Lu Guo, thank you for accompanying me with the movie today. I'm looking for a job recently. Do you know what the recruitment criteria of the art troupe are? I have no idea I suddenly got angry. I've seen movies outside. I have no idea when Anything. As long as you I'm not here. Lu Tianya insisted on marrying me since he was a child. Everything is better than me. Caused all the girls in the courtyard to like him to marry me. If these two things I set up this time, Look at Lu Tian's face is the biggest. It's not good, is it? What if someone finds out? Just be careful. I give you my word Be sure to take you to see movies and technology. That's right Don't you want to eat in an international restaurant? Me. Yeah. Really That's okay Go I'm back Ah, Xiao Wang. Come back. Sit down. Xiao Wan, are you looking for a job or a date? Ah, Comrade Qin Lao Lu, why can't I even ask? Your attitude, too. Qin Yi I went to see the post of the art troupe today. There is a manuscript writing post. I want to have a try. Well, this young man should have a goal. Now it's in the foreign room. It's troublesome to move around with a lot of information. During this period of time You're studying in his room. Ha ha ha Lao Lu doesn't have to. Just say I can study in my room. He hates me so much. I dare to go into his room. How can that work? Anyway, Jinyang is not going home now. It's convenient for you to stay in his room. Then it's settled. Aunt Zhang. You take Xiao Wan up to pack your bags. The child will take you to go. Thank you, Uncle Lu Thank you, Master Qin Your son won't even let anyone into his room. You are too partial to Xiao Wen. Xiao Wen, this kid has a clear goal. This is definitely an aspiring young man. He won't mess around. Land Corps, what happened to you? You said a girl was misunderstood. A relationship with a gay man Get rid of it immediately. And said that with this gay man, Not now. What do you mean? It means a gay man that this girl doesn't like. I'm going home tonight. It happens that Wen Ning is not here. Uncle Cole, they fell asleep and whispered. master The master is back. Come on, let's go. Someone found out. It's too late. You move out and demolish the room first. Unexpectedly, a boy's room is quite neat and tidy. Ah! Who are you Ah! It's your brother. Brother, someone turned in here. Don't change the subject. I should call you Mingming. Or should I ask you? Comrade Lu I'm sorry. I didn't mean to lie to you. Shut up Married the Lu family to be an adopted daughter. We must seize every opportunity to climb up. Wei Wenning. He has a date. We are already talking about marriage. As soon as I heard that Pan Gaozhi Repent the marriage immediately. The train ran into an alley Yuxi Hotel Cinema It's all your way to get close to me. Let me explain. I didn't mean to get close to you. Do you expect me to believe that? I really didn't lie to you. Wait Is there anything else? I don't care what you want. I want to stay in this corner. Just put away your thoughts. Comrade du, I don't know why you Have an inexplicable hostility to me But please rest assured. I don't have any interest in you. What's more, I never thought about default. And I didn't think about being a pussy. This is the money you bought me for dinner the other day. And the money for movie tickets. There are 8 yuan left. I'll give it to you after I finish my work. And ideological education books. Under the sky group of the people All questions will not be offended. Okay. Please rest assured I wait every day. Bear in mind I have no confidence in you. What's more, I never thought about default. I didn't think about my own worth. This is the money you bought me for dinner the other day. It's still money for movie tickets. Or send it to you when I get my job back. And the books I want are all in the names of people. Bride When did you get back? Are you not sleeping? Which dark circles are we wearing? Good morning, Lu Shuqi. Yeah Come and sit here and eat. Xinyi, this comrade is This is my son. His name is Jinyang. Jinyang, this is one of your sisters. His name is Xiaoye. Hello, brother Jianyang. Hello Dad, isn't there another one? Yeah You said Wen Ning. He went to report for Wen in the early morning. Oops. That's almost it. It just so happens that you don't drive Are you back yet? Go to the boarding group now. Pick him up. What? you don't want to. good Like this, brother. Let's go together. Hey You eat my food. Brother Jian Some time ago I've often heard that Winnie and Dale Male colleagues are very close. It's all clear. Now it seems that As a gay man, Although it won't put something as important as the camera. That's not gonna happen. Not if my brother is like me. I don't know. Watch the road? Hello, comrade. Make a formal acquaintance. My name is Yan Pingjin Hello, Comrade Yan. My name is Wen Ning Comrade Sun Thank you just now. If it wasn't for you, This camera may have been stolen. You're here to apply for the art troupe, right? Yeah You're welcome Because I used to love photography. I also work in the art troupe. What about our side? There happens to be a position. One photo camera is missing. If you need it. Lend me this camera for a moment. Comrade Yan, no need. This camera is too expensive. I can't take it. Nothing We're all from the same compound. If you're really worried, I'll go with you this afternoon. Let's go together Okay, then I'll just use it. Thank you, Comrade Yan Ah, Brother Xiyang That's your friend, right? I haven't seen it before. Ah, hello. My name is Ye Qiao Get out of the car. I have work to do. Uh, land team. That was one of your adopted sisters. Ye Qiao, I remember there was another one named Wen Ning. What can I do for the Marine Corps? Get me a camera. This is the money you bought me for dinner the other day. And the money for movie tickets. There are still 800 left for me to give you back my job. Aunt Zhang Hey I'm back Sir, I bought a camera at home. Jingyang just gave it to me. I can't use it once a year. I don't know why he bought this. Now this camera has to be hundreds. It is, isn't it? Xiao Wang, can you take pictures? I'll try Jingyang Xiaoguang can take pictures. Xiaoguang, take some pictures with Jingyang. I'll cook for you. No Then I'll start. Don't be so tight about that. Unbutton two of your buttons. And don't put your hands on your knees. Then your body can lean back a little bit. How dare I? Secret path. You don't have to do that. Is that okay? Sure Brother Jianyang, I like the pen you gave me. As for the money, Uncle Lu and Qin Yi have given me a lot. I can't spend it even if you give it to me. This is the money I gave him back the other day. Let him take pictures of you. I'll go back to my room first. Was I'm going to take the college entrance examination. There are several questions that I don't understand. When can you teach me? This is not for you. I don't have time these days. Not for me Is it for the people? How could I be inferior to you? Xiao Peng. There's news about your article in the newspaper, really. Thank you Aunt Zhang. Then I'll go back to my room first. Okay, then you go. Zhao Shang told me to go back to base. Great. I'm full of three manuscripts. I can't believe there's 15 yuan for the manuscript. Jin Yang, this kid. Come at night and go at night. It's only been two days since he came back, and he went back to base. It may be that there are not many things in the team. He doesn't want to see me. Qin Yi walked away with open hands. Seventh master, there's something I don't know whether to say or not. I just found out that Oning got a letter from a gay man. It's good to have a date. But this is all about money. Isn't that not good? Ye Qiang, why are you messing with my stuff? Don't be angry. It's not for fear of your influence. Not to mention that we are living in the Lu family now. It's not good for the Lu family. That's enough, Xiao Wen. The last time you sent files to Jin Yang, Someone saw you pulling and pulling with a gay man. I've been putting up with it. I can't believe you're doing something like this again. Some people in the country say that your work style is not good. I think it's true. But this is the compound. It is a passerby who can't tolerate you to do this. Gay men pull and pull. Ye Qiang went to deliver illegal buildings that day. I met a human trafficker. I told you to come back for help. Not only did you not come back, Now it's me pulling and pulling with gay men. If it hadn't been for the kindness you had saved me that day, I still don't know what's going to happen. Human traffickers Ye Qiao, what's going on? Seventh master, I misunderstood. I thought Wei Ming and that man knew each other. Who knows if it's being bullied? Besides, nothing happened after that? I asked you They all sent money to their homes. I can't be mistaken. This kind of thing must be asked clearly in the future. Small ask, then what's wrong with your money? Qin Yi, this money It's the fee for my manuscript. You can also write manuscripts. Ting Ting, are you talking about What? don't you have an elementary school diploma? How to write a manuscript Is Xiaoyue telling the truth? Yes, I have a primary school diploma. That's because of restrictions in the country. Can only go to primary school. But I never gave up my studies. With the help of educated youth I have completed the junior and senior high school courses by myself. Is your article worth 15 yuan? The exam is worth 15 yuan. My article was published in the Capital Daily. And in Youth Weekly A total of three articles 5 yuan per article The total is 15 yuan. Qin Yi, I'm sure you know that. Capital Daily and Youth Weekly It is indeed 5 yuan per article. But you wrote it. Can really be published in the Capital Daily. That's right, Huimin. You'd better tell the truth. You and I grew up together. What can you do? how can I not know? You'd better not cheat money. That's the truth. People in our office today. They all look at Xiao Hong. You got up so well. Ha. Ask Xiaowen is really you. Xinyi Oh. There's something wrong. This is my gift to you. I've been here to give you a lot of trouble. Thank you for your care. I used my number for all these. A gun Old Wei I'm sorry. I misunderstood you too much before. I told you Xiaowen was a good boy. Ha ha ha Aunt Xiao Wenqi needs to reflect. All right, Comrade Lu I was wrong. Introspection. How is that possible? Even his own name is stumbling. Can also write articles. Xiao Li This is your fault. We keep talking about seeking truth from facts. Especially for those gossip with no evidence. Don't breathe. I think you'd better read the ideological education book. Put your mind in the right place. Sorry I'm sorry. I was wrong. I misunderstood. It's all my fault. You can hit me any way you want. Get up. I'm not gonna hit you. I know you hate me. All right, since the leaflet asked, That's what the title says. Let's get over it. Don't do this again in the future. Get up. What's the big deal? Kneel when you say so. Go to your room and have a rest. Winnie, you don't make it easy for me. You can't live in peace either. Xiaoye is a little scary today. Kneel on the ground with a thump People who don't know. I thought how our family bullied him. Well, this kid is sensitive. You are not magnanimous and generous like Xiao Wen. Speaking of Xiao Wen, He can really be admitted to the artificial League. It is closer to the place where Jinyang works. Ah, you said he wanted to work in the art troupe. Is it because of this? They look like a good match. This is the world. Xiao Wen is talented. Plus her appearance. Be able to join the art troupe I don't know how many young gay men are pursuing. This sheep is the one who steals sheep. Hum, I don't necessarily like Xiaowen. You, don't think about it. But this lobule does have a lot on his mind. Hey Just observe. Go to sleep. Xiaowen will take the civilization exam tomorrow. Get up early to cheer when it's cold. Mm-hmm. Why are you a gun? Aunt Zhang, that's it. Let's go. Why are you going out so early? We still have an hour to run. Do you have all the public examination certificates? Do you have everything? Don't miss it. Go out early and feel at ease. Qin Yi, you can rest assured that you have brought it all. Xiaowen, come on. There's no pressure. Okay, then I'll go first. Ah! no way Time is running out. I have to take the exam. Get in Don't hurry. It's not too late. Aren't you going to take the exam? Why are you in such a mess? There was an accident. What's going on? I was crushed by a bike. To the hospital No, I can stand it. But I'm running late for my exam. I want to take the exam before I go to the hospital I don't want my hands. Help, brother. Qiu Ming, brother Qiu Ming Brother Qiu Ming Fuck Do you know who did it? It's the one who climbed in the window. I don't know. Thank you, brother. Comrade Wen, you're hurt. Do you want me to take you back? I'm fine It's nothing. It's all hurt like this. Come with me Wen Ning Come here My family is here. I'll go first. Actually, I don't use a wheelchair. Xiao Wen Ma How did this happen? Come on, let me see. Be hit by a bike It hit the wrist. You should examine him later before you apply the medicine. Maybe that yam is a little bit Greater Cold. You just bear with it. You're too starving sheep flying Since where are the people? Xiao Wang, why don't you take Xiao Hong to make a film? I'll get the medicine. Oh, director, is this someone you know? You're so pretty. Oops. It's a perfect match. They're not. Mom. Are you hungry? Why is Qingyang so sweet? Xiaowen, please take care of it. Xiaowen, let's eat. Qingyang, come here for a minute. Zhengyang, you didn't just take the assignment. Why are you back so soon? There are many tasks this time. So where are you staying tonight? Go home and live Usually live on the base after the mission. All the phones are called. The little Wei I saw last time came back more diligently. Mother Jingyang asked you Are you dating Xiao Wen? How about a date with Xiao Wen? Mom. Director Qin invited you to eat 302. Don't bother him. He's a little uncomfortable. I'll talk to you when I get back. Why don't you take Xiao Wen to film first? good Thank you, brother. I'll find out who hit you. But this guy, I think I've seen him before. He seems to be from the compound. Don't worry Give it to me. Come on, let's go shoot. comrade You are Wen Ning's family, right? Go and pay the spare parts fee first. Wait a minute. I'll be right back. Lin Lin What happened to you? I didn't take the public security examination this time. What a pity. No need to attend Because I'm already there. What? you took the exam? I thought you were crushed to your wrist by a bike. I can't take the exam. That I was crushed to my wrist by a bike. How do you know that? I haven't even told my family yet. I just heard from the nurse. You're not lying, are you? If there is something wrong in Jinya and Europe, I will return it for you. No, you don't have to be polite to me. What are you doing? What are you doing Ah! Coming Are you all right Brother You're a pilot. You can't hurt your hand. Come on, I'll take you to cremation. You and I didn't mean to. What can I do for my brother? If because I can't fly a plane, That's the loss of the country. The people regret And I am the latent sinner. How to tell the Lu family in the future? How's the doctor? I've been hurt. And have time to worry about others. Don't worry. He's just a skin wound. No stitches. After the recovery, It won't make a difference at high air pressure. Don't cry comrade Your date is very nice to you. If I hurt my leg, I should be by your side. This is not my date. He's my brother. So much the better. You saw the steps of my dressing change just now. Since we are a family, It will be more convenient to change dressing in the future. Good doctor. I remember that. Qin Yi misjudged me. I wanted to help. But who knows suddenly understood Hurt the mother's family. I didn't expect to kill my wife and children. It was an accident. Nini, are you saying I love you very much? I really didn't mean to. Or try so hard to get down on your knees and apologize. All right, lobule. You didn't mean to. Xiao Wen Jingyang How's your injury? is it serious? The doctor said it was fine. Does not affect mission flight Good. The hospital is noisy. Be quiet at home. You'd better go home and rest. I have an operation later. I'll go first. You and I are ordinary. There is no need Brother Xincheng, I'm kind, too. let's go The doctor said you still have several injuries on your body. Come and give you medicine. Quit. Health Brother Do you have any pain? I don't understand the question you told me last time. I'm sorry. You'll have to take the rest. I'm going back first. Brother Sunset, you are on medicine. You want me to help you? I don't like people coming into my room casually. And I don't like people touching my body. If there's any problem, I'm downstairs. Brother Jiyang, I just saw Wen Ning. I came in without thinking. He's different. How does he feel about me? What is Ning doing? He's different. Oops. Just touched the toothpaste. It hurts when I hurt my hand Isn't the medicine box right here? I just heard Brother Yang praise me for having sex. What guy? Oh, that's right. He even helped me understand the topic. If you can't even do math problems in junior high school. And ask people over and over again. Then I advise you not to take the college entrance examination. Find a middle school student as soon as possible. My hands are broken and I'm afraid of pistols. Turn around. Aunt Zhou, have you seen my clothes? Ah! Xiao Wang, I'm sorry. I was too busy just now. I took your and Jin Yang's clothes. It's all in his room. You go to his room and have a look. Such a small piece Brother and Aunt Zhang sent the wrong clothes. Let me take it. be rather baffling I didn't find it in the basket. That's weird. Where's my belly band? Who? Brother Is my black name. What is it? That You just helped me with my clothes. Did you see anything left behind? no If it wasn't for the poor, there were only two belly bands. I would be so embarrassed. you I'll get it. Why are you crumpled? Get up so early to wash the sheets. Ah! I washed it and hung it out. Hey But the clothes pole is here. Brother Jianyang, what do you like to eat? I'll cook it for you later. No Brother Jianyang is here. A comrade. He said he learned that Xiaowen was sick. Come and see him. Comrade Yan What are you doing here? This is the first time that someone has come to see Xiao Wen. Little comrade, what's your name? Hello, Director Qin. My name is Yan Pingjin It's also from our compound. Now I work in the Art Troupe. Didn't I hear that Comrade Wen was hurt? You can come and see him. Come and sit down. Comrade Yan drinks tea Xiaoyan What's the relationship between you and Xiao Wen? Master Qin, I think Comrade Yan is the object of Lingling. Before, at the gate of the art troupe. I saw him pulling and pulling with you. Maybe they're dating. Want to ask the object The hand slipped. Comrade Qin Aunt Yan She's not my date. Aunt It was Comrade Wen who helped me find my lost camera. That's why I lent her my camera. Comrade Wen is not my target yet. Not yet. That means there's a chance. Without you, you might not be admitted to the art troupe. It's nice to fall in love with Comrade Yan. Who says I can't pass the exam? I'm not right. I hope. There are too many excellent comrades. Plus you hurt your hand again. Don't force it. I didn't force it. Xiaowen Just work hard. No matter how it turns out, Don't be disappointed. Look, I've been caring about Comrade Wen this time. Forgot to get down to business. I'm here this time. It's a test. Comrade Wen Admitted to me. What passed the examination? Aunt Jia, this is the admission line. Xiao Wen, you really got in. It's still number one. Yes, you can. Don't try to get it wrong. Bai let Lin Lin have a good time You can't be mistaken. Comrade Wen, I'll come to work in the store tomorrow morning. good Comrade Yan When can the art troupe go AWOL? We have free time to chat here. Brother is right. It's getting late. See you tomorrow morning, Comrade Wen. I'll go back first. Xiaowen This Xiao Yan looks good-looking. It's polite, too. You two still work in the same place. I think you two deserve each other. Qin Yi has one more mouth. You're not young, too. It should be considered. I'm full Let's go upstairs. Jingyang only has two bites. Why did you go up there? Comrade Yan, I just got a call. Someone from the art troupe is looking for you. I told the art troupe this morning that I was busy. So I won't come to you today. Brother Du Do you have a problem with me? You work in the secretarial department. Wen Ning works in the propaganda department. You came to pick him up with great fanfare. Aren't you afraid of what people say? His first day in the art troupe How much gossip will there be? It was my thoughtlessness. Then I'll go first. Please tell Comrade Wen about me today. Eldest brother Comrade Yan? He has to go to work first. And will never come again. Like this Hey, why are there a bunch of flowers? Who put it here? It's the wind, isn't it? Wind An induction gift for you Resin gift Thank you, Big Brother. I like it Yeah, get in the car. I'll take you to work. He must be the pilot of the Lu family. She's really pretty. It is, isn't it? He heard that many lesbians chased him. He won't even accept gifts for him. You don't know what kind of lesbians he likes. Isn't it? Blossoming Unexpectedly, he is quite popular. let's go Ah! Today, I have an appointment with classmate Yan to have dinner in a state-run restaurant. Wen Tongxue has been waiting for a long time Brother, last time you said Wen and I are not suitable to meet in the art troupe. We didn't meet in the art troupe this time, did we? What art group to meet? Why can't I understand what you're talking about? Nothing. I have work to do. Let's go. Then let's go, too. let's go Xiao Wen, Xiao Yan, looks good-looking. And polite. You two still work in the same place. I think you two deserve each other. Ouch. What a cold face Hey, Sweden. Who has offended you again? You look so ugly. Did you find out who asked you to check on Wen Ning last time? Found our compound. There are only a few people who buy Phoenix bikes One of them named Zhou Jing is very good. One of them, Zhou Jing, is very suspicious. But did you show up in that alley that day? And those here. Yeah Luo mouth It's not early either. Why don't we have dinner together? Well, I heard that some more green vegetables have been served in the state-run restaurant. Eat You can't improve your physical fitness even though you eat so much. Get out of the car and go about your business. Comrade Wen Liu Qing saw the picture you took two days ago. That's a nice picture. That's thanks to Comrade Yuan's camera. Even if I have the camera, I've taken such a beautiful picture. The most beautiful picture Comrade Wen has ever taken. Yes Give it to a good-looking model. If you have a camera in the future Come to me at any time. I don't need a camera at home. Yes, the family has already Brother Why are you here When did you get here? I just finished having dinner. One person is too many. Let's eat together. Comrade Ben drinks water No, I'll just have some water. Just drink water. I thought you liked shrimp. Come here Ah, you eat, too. You eat, too. Comrade Wen This is the scarf I accidentally saw last time. Think it's a good fit. It's for you. No need. You mustn't refuse me. Let's just say you helped me last time. Thank you. Okay. Thank you. Who? You should be very lucky to be with Comrade Yan. I have something to do. I've bought it. I'll go first. But you haven't had two bites yet. Chicken driver Could he have done it for me? Xiaofang is back. Yeah Let's be surprised. Yeah Jinyang bought this. He said he bought it by mistake. Buy one for each of us Hey, does this look good? It turns out that as for I'm thinking too much. Aunt Zhang. Then I'll thank him. He's busy. I'll check it out. Brother, is there anything you like? Oh no Are you free now? I don't have time. It's almost your girl. I was pissing him off. Aunt Zhang For you. Hey, where did this come from? Buy it wrong and send it to everyone. The aunt took it. You, sister. You have to have a date. Isn't this wet towel given away? Why would you give it to your aunt? You're old, too. What kind of type do you like? Talk to your aunt. Let me introduce you. If you don't talk, My aunt will not accept this silk scarf. The skin is white Big eyes Can write articles. I want this big month. Who's the right one? Xiaowen Xiao Wen is consistent with it. What? Brother, sit down. Do you want to take a look at the photo I developed last time? Brother Measure the flyers. I'll help you. Where are you going when you're 4? Can I help you with Qin Yi? Isn't lobule here? Well, lobule's not here. Xiao Wen, you live in the same room as Xiaoye. Did you find anything wrong with him? What's wrong? Like sneaking out in the middle of the night. Qin Yi, I go to bed early at night Not aware of I did it last night. I saw her meeting with a male colleague. The relationship is still very close. This lobule pulled and pulled with that gay man. It's dark and dark. At first glance, he is doing something shameful. A family like ours In a compound like this, He's bowing his head and not looking up. The problem of style is the most important. What's more, your Uncle Lu is on the rise. This kind of thing is even more sensitive. No, it can't be. How do you know about me and Zhou Jing on July 1st? Leaflet, he's having sex with men. There is no room for him in the Lu family. Don't tell Xiaoye. I'll let him go back to where he came from after a while. No, I don't want to lose this ambition. Maybe it must be me. Otherwise, how would Qin Yi know? Wen Ning I'm not fine, and you can't have a good time. Haven't you just seen it? You want to see me again. You miss me. How do you meet? Wen Ning is rolling in the work regiment. Be good-looking Like you Last time you hurt him, Now the third place Just tell me if you want to I'm sure I do. That figure. The appearance is the same. But Lu Jingyang followed him all the time. Still hanging him. If I hadn't been careless, I'm afraid I've already taken it. You're afraid Then let's get ready. I need to make up for the time being. Comrade Yan, thank you for accompanying me to the state-run department store today. Buy a present for my brother Otherwise, I really don't know what gift to give gay men. Be able to go shopping with Comrade Wen I'm already very happy. Ah, yes. To thank you for giving me a scarf last time. This is a thank you gift back to you. Comrade Wen, you and I don't have to be so polite. Just take it. So I can feel more at ease. Comrade Ben What's wrong? why are you so serious all of a sudden? Comrade Wen, I now earn 42 yuan a month. I'm the only one in the family. Both parents work in Wen Factory. I want to associate with you for the purpose of marriage. you Would you like it? I Comrade Wen You can also answer me in such a hurry. I can wait for you. So now you There are some who like it. The one you like. Comrade Ban Yeah I'll be careful. Watch out Comrade Wen, I'm sorry. Just now I was afraid that you would be hit by a car. So I'm fine. I think I saw Lu Jinyang just now. Comrade Yang, I have things to do. I'm gonna go. Thank you. Yes, comrade. Is there anyone you like now? Xiaowen He's back. Where's Brother Seven? Ah, he received an urgent notice. The zipper is gone. He's not avoiding me to zipper, is he? Okay, I get it. Then I'll go back to my room first. Banshee sin There is no skill to lose. How are you going? No, we can start with this money. Don't worry I have already bought everything you want. But isn't he from your hometown? You want such a good hand? Just trust your bosom friend before you come from the same hometown. I spread a lot of rumors to sum up him. Now I'm in the compound. Lu Zai implemented it again. No no no It's all his fault. Only Wang Ming Let me ask you something. Where is this place? It's kidnapping. You're gonna do it. I can't believe I woke you up. It's you. You beat me up. I can't believe you recognize me. Ah! Much prettier than Ye Qiao They really have something to do with Ye Qiao. Ah, I advise you. It's best not to run. There's nobody here. Even if you don't yell, I'm useless. Come on, baby. Be good. Let me go! let go! Let me go. Ouch. You think you can't help it if you live every day, don't you? Kill anyone alive. Ah! Ah! Ah Wen Ling Lady Wen Niang Article Ning Wenning Quiet Is everything all right? I'm not too comfortable. What else is wrong? Brother I thought you said you were out on a mission. Found out you were in danger. Wrong Zhou Jin Let the boy get away. But we try to be sure. Even if that kid can run for a while. He can't run forever. It's getting late for the Marine Corps. The compound is too far from here. It's not realistic to rush back all night. The zipper tent is quite close to here. Why don't we go back to the tent first? General Manager Wen Do you want to consider dating with our land corps? There is no way to help others ask their partners everywhere. Is it cold? He's avoiding it. I Decide I have something to do with the Deer team. I'm gonna go first. Hey, you're all family. You guys go on. Oh, you don't have to give it away. There are clean quilts. have an early rest He's really real. Thank you, brother. He really doesn't like me? Don't worry I won't let Zhou Jin go. Yeah I believe you It's going to rain. Do you want to go into the tent? No Why have you been avoiding me lately? No Lie Do you want to go into the tent? It's up to you. Come in and be so far away from me Just hate me so much. Brother Do you like Ye Qiao? What? I heard about that. You often teach him to do exercises. And praised him for being good at holy medicine. I've never done that He told you that. isn't it I really didn't do it. That's Sister Ye lying to me. I see Aren't you a little cold? Let me get you a blanket. Do you like that Comrade Yan? Comrade Yuan is fine. Is it But I don't want to. you What are you doing Stop! Do you like it It's already 0 o'clock. Happy birthday Everything goes well. Forget it if you don't like it. I'll never talk about it again. Lingling I thought you said you couldn't help me with someone else. Or ask in person. Would you like to date me? I would I can't play hooligans with you. I will renew it after I have finished typing the marriage report. Continue to You are so upright Aren't you tired of sitting? Sleeping Unwilling to send Write down the pen and ink Every word is a smile I would like to announce to the world I finally married you. Madam, I have arranged for someone to control Zhou Jing. I'll take care of it. You go back later. Yeah I didn't come home all night Let Uncle Lu and Aunt Qin worry. Then I'll go back first. Be safe on the road What? You said Xiao Wen didn't come home all night. Why didn't you tell me about this? you Hello, Chief Lu. Director Qin, excuse me. I am from the Art Troupe. Is Comrade Wen Ning there, please? Didn't Xiao Wen work overtime at work? Recently, the art troupe has no urgent tasks. How is it possible to work overtime in the art troupe And Comrade Wen Ning, from yesterday to now, Have never been to the art troupe. This is absenteeism for no reason. So I came to ask about the situation. Xiao Wen didn't go yesterday. Then where am I going? Hum, Winnie. You have what you are today. Is everything all right? Lao Lu, get someone to check it out. Oh, you said. Uncle Lu I think I know. Obviously, where is it? Yeah Ning Ning, he ran away with someone. Xiao Yue, you can't say that nonsense. That's what it takes to talk about evidence. I'm telling the truth. The man's name is Zhou Jing. If you don't believe me, you can call and ask. Did anyone see Zhou Jing's car go out yesterday? Zhou Jing Hey, you check it for me. Did Zhou Jun's car go out yesterday? Chief Wei Zhou Jun's car did go out yesterday. There is also a female colleague in the car. The car that Zhoujin entered yesterday. I did go out. There is indeed a lesbian on this bus. But I'm not sure it's Xiao Wenna. Xiao Ye, you said Xiao Wen eloped with Zhou Jing. Why did I see you go to see Zhou Jing at night? Is there any more about this, leaflet? Actually, I'm in a serious relationship with Zhou Jing. Unexpectedly, Wen Ning found out. You can also see that Zhou Jing and I are jealous. Robbed Zhou Jing and eloped Chief Lu, if Comrade Wen Ning is such a character, Then our art troupe doesn't work. The wedding has been put into the water supply. When he comes back, he will only sit down on it. When he jumps into the Yellow River, he can't even wash it. Now these two days and one night, the disease is very serious. What must have happened has happened. It's all my fault. I never dared to let them elope. It's all my fault that I'm still spreading. Ye Qiu, I eloped with Zhou Jing. Didn't you let Zhou Jing kidnap him? Don't be ridiculous. do you have proof? This is the evidence that Zhou Jing told you personally. You told him to kidnap me. You ordered the last time the bike hit me. Zhou Jing, it turns out that he had a confrontation. Yes Zhou Jing will be here soon. Don't dare to do it yourself. If Zhou Jing came back, how could he not find me? Master, there you are. Why wouldn't I dare? Hello Xiao Wen, what kind of bicycle hit someone and kidnapped him? What happened these two days? Yeah, Xiao Wen. Someone from the art troupe just came. It is said that you haven't worked in the regiment in two days. Sorry, Uncle Lu. Qin Yi worries you. Here's the thing. I... I had to work overtime in the art troupe last night. Zhou Jing suddenly appeared. Fascinated me. Took me to the wedding dress. It was Brother Lu who suddenly appeared to save his son. We still have this kind of scum in our compound. Kunming, don't talk nonsense. Brother Jinyang is practicing. How could he save you? I think you're just trying to cover up the truth with Zhou Jing. Made up a lie. It is true that Jinyang has been practicing these two days. It's impossible to leave the team. And how to show up in the barren mountains and lakes to save you. So you have the ability to ask Brother Qingyang to testify on your behalf. Zhou Jing is not here Brother Qing Yang is not here either. Why do you make everyone laugh? Who said I wasn't here? Jiyang, you tell him. What's going on? Some time ago Wen Ning went to take the art troupe exam. Be hit by a bike Someone hurt his wrist maliciously I asked someone to investigate. The result of the investigation in the past few days is Zhou Jingan. Recently, he secretly bought drugs to pick sites in barren mountains and lakes. We suspect he's going to do it again. He asked for leave from the team. Rushed to the scene. Saved Wen Ning. Well, I can't believe we have such a family in our compound. Guard Uncle Lu Uncle Lu, don't call the guard. My father and you are comrades-in-arms. You watched me grow up when I was a kid. You have the nerve to cover for your father. Your father fought the hardest on the battlefield. Earning some honor will be on you. Send him to the police station. Notify to close the gun. Deal with it seriously Uncle Lu, stop being a commander. My dad would kill me if he knew about this. Uncle Lu, I'm begging you. I'm not the mastermind. I was instructed, too. Ye Qiang asked me to do it. Hit someone by bike And let me ride it. But he ordered you. Wu Ping, don't slander me. What's going on? Lobule I thought you said you were in a serious relationship with Zhou Jin. What kind of serious relationship? Ye Xiaogang approached me when he came to the compound. Kiss me. Let me treat him to the movies. And seduced me to bed, huh? Sneak away Eldest brother If you can't, you just threaten me with us in bed. Let me do something for you. Do you have any proof? Who says it's gone? There is a red mole on the thigh You also said that the Lu family had a big career. How many gestures of Director Qin? No one will find out. Now those gestures are in your room. No Auntie Hurry up and have a look at the second floor. Did my gesture ring or not? You think you lost your innocence? Aren't you interested in Wen Ning? Well, that's not your shuttle. You were walking and performing in the country before. It is said that Wen Ning presses you on one end. Nonsense. No. That's how it came from. Xiaoyue You stole it. So what if it is? Don't the Lu family just use me as corn? If I don't take you, I should. What's wrong with you? What are you talking about? Wendy and I are the same. I'm having a hard time with Wendy. Xiaoye, how could you do this? We in the Lu family have no chance. Tired of you. You're crazy. Crazy Xu Wanyan took it away for me. I won't let go. I just want to live a better life. Am I wrong? Blame you. It's all your fault. You were my foil before. Why should I protect you now? I protect you. Why don't you take it? What's wrong with me? I'm right. I have seen what happened to Director Lu today. Since it's a misunderstanding, Then I will report to the higher authorities. Comrade Wen was also frightened recently. Then have a good rest at home these two days. I hope you don't mind my leaving now Sorry to bother you I'm sorry to make you laugh. This time today. Let's not go abroad in the courtyard any more. This Ye Qiao originally seemed to have come down from the countryside. I didn't expect it to be so hard. It's my fault. I thought he was a good kid. Not all the people from the countryside are all bad. If you look at Xiao Wen, it's fine. I misunderstood others before. Xiao Wen easily misunderstood you before. Ye Xiao said so many bad things about you. I can't believe I believed everything. I'm sorry. No, no, no. Uncle Liu and Qin Yi have been very kind to me. I appreciate it. Xiaowen Although you are from the countryside. But he's a good kid. What do you need in the future? Feel free to tell Qin Yi. Ha ha ha That's right. Our Xiaowen is the best. And This Jinyang. There is also a good appearance of being a brother. Ha. Don't tell me yet. They really look more and more like brothers. Mom and Dad, actually, I'm gonna ask you. Yeah In fact, I think there is a brother like Brother Lu. I've always felt very happy. That's right She is my good sister. Xia Chang Why are you my sister? I'll say it now. I'm afraid the memory will be attracted. It's changed. It's too early. Xiaowen In the room? Aunt Qin, what are you doing here? Xiao Wen, why are you so red? What's wrong? It's a little hot. Have a seat. Wen, I came here to tell you What I said this afternoon Absolutely didn't say what you meant. You mustn't think about it. We've been together for so long. I know you're a good kid. Aunt Qi, don't worry. I didn't think about it. You are a magnanimous and good boy. Oh, that's right. Last time I saw that Xiao Yan's house. We also know each other. Is a good family. If you're talking about a date, you can really think about it. I don't mean that to Yan Tuzhi. Oh, we can get along more. You don't have to worry about family matters. In the future, our Lu family will be your mother's family. Okay It's getting late. Why don't you go to bed early? yeah. You dare not tell anyone about our relationship. Is it because you are still thinking about that Yan Tingjing? I didn't I'd rather be who I am now. The object of the conversation is to report to the organization. Don't sneak around. And I don't want to sneak around. Yeah If you don't want to, We had to separate. I would Tomorrow I will have a love letter with Uncle Lu. Don't separate. Don't be afraid. I'm here Xiao Wen Jinyan What are you two waiting for? Have a seat. It's time for dinner. Mom and Dad, I have something to say. Strange, right? What is this? So authentic. Say it and listen. Actually, we... Emergency notice A major earthquake occurred in thistle province Please return to all units immediately in the air and land command. Department collection Go to the front and back up. Emergency notice Emergency assembly The helicopter has arrived. Set out This time we will be above the capital line. At an altitude of 5 kilometers. Parachute landing There is no meteorological data to refer to on the ground. There is no sign on the ground. Without command and guidance It can be said to be a suicide operation. If someone wants to quit, Talk to me now. Our first unit flinched for you. good He is indeed my brother of Lu Jinyang. Is there anything you want to say to the family? Can be written on paper. I wonder how Ning Ning is doing now. Wen Ning, you can shoot and write articles. This time, the regiment will send you to the front camp in Jicheng. Make on-site records Comrade, let's go to camp. I wonder if I will see Lu Jinliang. Captain Zhu, the game is over. Thank you. What are you doing at the front? I was sent to make front-line filming. Thinking you should be here. I won't be hungry again. I'm going on a mission. I didn't expect to see you again before I left. Ah! Ah! I'm not too tired lately. Why don't I press your shoulder? This is all my belongings to you. Your mission is very dangerous. Don't worry Not dangerous. It's just that I'm your man now. Of course I have to give you all these. good Then I'll keep it for you. It's going to be combined. Take care of myself while I'm away. Wu Jinyang Caution I'll wait for you to come back. Set out Sister-in-law This is what the Marine Corps left to you. Well, the land team said it would be left to his sister-in-law. It turned out to be Comrade Wen. Sister-in-law, this mission is comparable to a suicide operation. 1st Air Force Battalion No one can do it. You got the right guy. They're real heroes. What's the matter Lulia Even professional skydivers You should also be on the ground and on the ground. After the air traffic control meteorological tower and other safeguards are in place, To dare to jump. But Lu Jinyang, they have nothing. With his patriotic blood. Jump from an altitude of five kilometers Sonia What you said is fine. You must come back safely. There will always be you. Watch quietly At a loss It is better to see the words as mother Actually, I fell in love with you two months ago. Two months ago. Does he like me so early? At the moment, I am also on my way to the mission. one's life is uncertain I was angry that you didn't tell your elders about our relationship. But now I am deeply grateful. I'm glad we didn't make it public. It won't hold you up. If I don't come back, Yan Pingqing is a good brother. I can see that you are good, and so will he. He knew it was so dangerous. And still told me it was okay. What is clear is that This is what we should do. But this man is the people of Luojingyang I like. Always be in the front when you need it. You, no matter what the cost, you have to Take down this position report. Chief Frontline Battle report Hello, this is the first battle scene. Who are you How's it going? Sir, we lost contact with the first flight brigade. They're missing. Wen, you're back. I've lost weight in only a few days. Sister-in-law is back. Get some rest. My job. Your task has been accomplished very well. Such a dangerous scene. You come forward to record without fear. That's nice. Uncle Lu, is Brother Qin Yi back yet? It's been five days. Why didn't you see him? There is no news from Jinnan yet. But don't worry. There must be something wrong with him. Yeah I believe him Then I'll go upstairs and have a rest. Oops. Look at you You are not as strong as Xiao Wei. Don't worry about your ability as much as possible. It's gonna be okay. Ah! Lu Jinyang You must come back safely. Otherwise Or I won't forgive you. Hello Excuse me, is there any news from Lu Qingya? Wen Ning, this is Sun Changzheng, the land team. Louiela's fine. But there is still one time the work is not finished. There's no way to leave the scene. Then call and tell the family to wait. Especially with you. To reassure you. Xiaowen What happened to you? Why are you crying? Oh. No Brother Jing'er He's fine. He's fine. I'm glad it's okay. Great. It's okay. I don't have the ability to believe in myself. But a friend in need is a friend indeed. I didn't expect Xiaowen to be so worried about Jingya. I didn't even react when the phone rang. Ha ha Uncle Lu, I'm sorry. I am also too worried about Jingya. That's why I'm here. I know you're worried. Look at you like brother and sister. We will be relieved. Uncle Lu Qin Yi Actually, Comrade Ji Yangtian and I are here. Brother Sheng, providence. I'm here from the delegation to send documents to Wen Ning. I happen to hear that Uncle Lu is all right. That's great. Thank you I hear you haven't had a good appetite in Qianxian County. This is a snack I specially bought for you. By the way, you If you have time Join us for dinner tonight. Xiaowen Just go. Anyway, since it's all right. You don't have to worry. Good Just to make it clear to Comrade Yan I already have someone I like. Okay, let's go. Yes. Yes Yeah, we just got back. Also said hello to the compound. Hey, take a break before you go back. No, I'll go back to the compound to see Ning Ning. People who have a date are just different. A mind bent on returning is like an arrow comrade I have the answer to the question you asked me last time. In fact, I've always liked someone Comrade Lu Uh, yeah. Hope Happiness Be nice to him. You don't have to tell me. When he left, he told me it was all right. Do you know how worried I am? And your father. If I did marry you, Get those cigarette pens. What are you gonna do? Got enough Jingya Xiaowen Mom and Dad Advanced house Hey All right, you Lu Jinyang. Bully others, bully your sister. Where did you get a sister? Wen Ning is the object of my serious conversation. For the purpose of marriage Where's Xiaowen? what do you think? If my son of a bitch forced you Just tell me. I broke his leg. Uncle Lu Qin Yi Jingyang and I are really in a serious relationship. I just haven't had a chance to tell you yet. If you don't agree, I... Ha ha ha ha ha ha Yeah. Ha. This is kiss and kiss. Ah, ha. Yeah. Now the marriage of our son and daughter We don't have to worry about it. Yeah. Doesn't that make us worry? Ha, Uncle Lu, Qin Yi Aren't you angry? After all, I was born in the country. Hey Silly boy, what does it matter? You have made your own efforts in the compound. Changed the way we think of you. You're so good. It's our adopted daughter again. Know the root and know the reason How can we be angry? Ah, ha. Jiyang Hey If you bully my daughter, I won't forgive you Hmm Ah, yes. I'll call Xiao Wang's mother tomorrow. It's great that we can get this marriage settled as soon as possible. Mm-hmm. Mom. I didn't know the pilot's job was so dangerous. Are you sure you want to get married? If you don't want to get married Mom will take you back to your hometown now. Mom, Jin Yao and I really love each other. Don't worry. As long as you are truly in love Mom saved this. It's not much money Although there is a big gap between our family and the Lu family But Mom, you can't let others laugh at you. Mom, I don't want this money You guard it yourself don't worry The Lu family is very good bride It's time to pick up the bride. Sister-in-law Lu is so beautiful today Sister-in-law Lu Dui is the most reliable member of our First Brigade You're the right thing to marry him lower right