Why don't you? What's the patient's house? I'm calling your number and you're not picking up. Please, why are you calling me all the time? I'm not picking up. Oh, my phone is on silent mode. Why do I have to be silent? Why do I have to keep it silent ? go with that girl I brought her in to beautify her. Done, I don't. I'm next to her . I don't dare answer your phone, right. It's not like I'm coming in. I was going to get my hair done, but I'm just waiting for a customer. I don't have to. Where can I explain? I've seen it all. I still have to explain It's not like Ny. I went down the other day and saw that her hair was too long, so we didn't have a car so we didn't know where to get our hair cut. If you're free, I'll take you to get your hair cut if you're free. It's not what you think. Well, I'm not arguing. Is there a reason? Reasoning. Reason B. Where's the baby? How many times have I made up excuses to see his mother? Sometimes I tell him to take me to get medicine. Sometimes I tell him to take me away. People also know the school and the class, but this time I still have to get my hair cut, things are not like you. I'm fine. Let's stop talking about that mother and daughter story for now. Why did you say to stay home for a few days? Why didn't you come here so early? Well, then let's not talk about the other mother and daughter. Now let's talk about you and I. I'll go take care of you when I come home for the same week. My parents also asked how things were going between us two. Why did you come back? If you don't come back together then how do you plan? It's between you and her Well, I don't want to repeat it again. I hope you understand. What about the two families, An and her friends An, I didn't think I would tell you a second time a story like this. The other day it was C who thought I was joking, but today you say it again and you confirm that you're cruel to me, as you already know. If you treat me like that with feelings, it's against the Dharma to treat you like that. We can't do that on both sides, I hope you understand But you treat me like that. You're so mean. You talk to me like that. My entire youth, my entire youth, I gave you, but you treat me like that. I'm just a worthless girl. It's sad . I understand your feelings very well right now, but you also know that love must come from both sides. Up until now, having you as my sister, I can't be Phac anymore. I can't. Can't stand maong I understand you I know you don't The girls are also very open at work, but really, I can't help it. I believe that in the future there will be a man who will love you and suffer more with you than me. No, I'm not here. Come home, Hue, I'm thinking of listening to what you have to say, Hue, Hue, Hue, listening to what I'm saying, Hue, mom, Yes, yes, Here, I'm coming, I'm coming, I'm coming, I'm here, oh baby , where are you listening to me, please tell me How much money is mine? Honey, I haven't had time to pay for the water yet, bro. Yes, let me send you some money for the table. The day you come over, I'll support you after I die. You don't have to pay for the table. I'll give you 100 in return. Mom, Mom, ha. I'm okay , I'm okay , I'm okay, I don't have any pain anywhere, what's wrong, where are you? Are you okay? Are you okay? Look at me What's wrong? Where are you? Where are you? My child Is it hurting anywhere ? Is it okay? Is it hurting anywhere? [ music] aren't you afraid? Let music] [music] thank you I'm sending you the location Bro Bring the car down here to pick me up right now don't have to give me a bonus Come here Come here I'm not afraid to come here I'll be here sir I'll take the car for two meters I'll go on my tube and admire [the music] . My clothes and I called a car, then I took them down to the beach to check. You're okay, I'm not in pain. I called a car. Let's go home. I'm sure you don't need to go to the hospital anymore. I just It's just a little pain, but that's all. Just give me a ride. I'll call a car and take you down to Viet for a check-up. Just to make sure, I'll go home and rest for a while. It'll be much better. I'll call a car. The car will be ready to arrive . But just go to the hospital and get checked It's Anh Du who came home and then came and then Yes he he he Du I just got in the car and then like bought two Please tell me [music] where is the nearest hospital for my brother? Mom, are you in a lot of pain ? That car is not good . Doctor. Doctor. Doctor. Where are you? Doctor, please come for me. What's wrong with me? It's because of an accident. Can you check how much it hurts? Honey, I have pain on this side , I have pain on this side. Does this phone hurt? Is the other side hurting? Can I put my hand and hand on it? If you fall off your bike, you'll get hit by a car If the car hits you like this and now you fall like this, you'll have to go a dozen times. I'll help you check this area because the car crashed into this area. I touched it and broke my bone. Please call the person behind me so I can see. Let me tell you this. This baby, come here. CH. Hey, CH. Mom. Does this cricket hurt? This hurts. This hurts so much . I'm shrinking. I can't move. My stomach hurts a lot. I'm pulling, pulling. These pants are down Purple in an area here Yes, it hurts a lot in this place. I looked at it earlier and the purple sprouts were only on the outside, but now it's on the inside and I'm not sure yet, so I'll go check it out now. Waiting and watching Yes, let me be safe Yes, I'll help you. Yes, I have you. Now my friend brought me here. I checked and only the outside needs to be purple. Now I want to see more clearly on the inside. I'm afraid. If there's a bone sticking out or something, you have to go for a scan Okay , now I'm going to take you to the other room to have the scan done. Then come back here and rest. I 'll keep an eye on you. Is there anything I can call you ? As close as possible, here it is for me. Yes , I'll take some of your precious mandarins and see if you can pay me for these. I'll put them in a big bag. Yes. If you cut the leaves, this is 200. Hey, this one is 350 , this one is 300, this one is 150, please give me the bag. Yes, it's all up and it's up to you. My total amount is 35 million. Yes, I'll scan your cheek. I'll scan it up here for you, okay? 3 million received from nh I'm working here and following up, there are no results right now. When will you be there? [music] a Mom, you're sick, I'll fix it Yes, sir. How are you doing? Are you feeling better? Yes, I'm feeling much better. Just now, Doctor Vue Kem gave me a little pain when my brother and I ran out to buy me some clothes that Anem had to buy. What's wrong ? Now you're spending money. There's a doctor here. Doctor Ho. I've already changed your clothes . Thank you [music] Ms. I just got it, so now I'm going to the other side. I'll leave it there Let's do the procedure for her to follow up . Yes, wait for me. Uncle , where is your family? So, where did you get into an accident? Right now, she's in such pain and can't go home yet . If there's no result yet, I'll let her follow up here. If she doesn't have any legal papers, what papers do you have? According to my friends, where are you with? Vie , you said you'll have the results tomorrow morning. Please let me know. Yes, I'll stay now. If you have any friends, please call me Hey, I'm done with the treatment. How is your friend's health? Is that important? I already gave it to you a while ago, but the results haven't come yet, so I don't dare say anything. There will be results tomorrow morning. I'll let you know. Right now I'm here with my friend An, I'll go over there if you have any problems, call me, I'll just talk to you. Well, first of all, I'd like to thank the doctor, what's in it? The doctor can help you. No It's okay, that's what I did, it's my responsibility. I'll take it to a room that will help me. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. It was too careless to let us wait so long that something like that happened. Yes. It's okay, it's not a bad thing, but no one wants it. It happened like that. I'm not the one lying. Luckily, you're okay. If something happened to your sister, I wouldn't know what to tell you. Like what and Nothing No, it's unexpected, no one wants to take the exam. You don't have to think about it. It's already dark. You should go home, eat, wash, and rest. Today, I've worked hard on you and me. It's been a rough day today. It's okay , I'm still at work, I've finished folding everything, now leave your children here. I don't feel secure either. You just go home and have food and water. I left the house. I'm wondering what to do. You and I are feeling much better. I 'm here. You're here to monitor more. You two will go home on your own. You don't have to worry about them. It's okay. I'll come back later and he'll clean up. You don't have to worry about his hospital. I can arrange it. It's getting dark now. Then you must be hungry so I can go out I bought some food, I'm not hungry. Just go out and see if there's anything you can eat. Okay, I'll just rest here and let you run out. I'll give it to you two [music] Ken's here to look after mom. Wait for me, wait for me. Wait for me. I'll run out for a bit and then you'll come back. Are you scared? Are you scared? Are you in pain anywhere? So next time you run out like crazy. That's dangerous It's too much like that. If I can't catch my baby in time, I'm so scared. It's so dangerous. Yes, why do I have to go? I don't have to have my mother to go. [music] I haven't gone out yet. K took M too. I'll get the porridge for you. The food I ordered. Ti They let you stay here so I can feed you baby. Come here, please tell me how to feed you. I'm not hungry yet . I'm very hungry. I'm very hungry. It's delicious. It's delicious. I have to eat all of this. Sell it . and he is having a hard time with his mother and children It's okay, honey. If you're hungry, just buy the cake and the jellyfish, just eat it like a slice. We'll ship the rice later. I'm not hungry yet. Let's eat [music] is it good? Is it delicious? I'm full. I'm full. When I'm hungry again, let's eat again . Can you buy me some cake? [music] said , let me eat for now. I don't know when people will eat. Let's eat. I'll just eat it. eat some dumplings [music] [music] Here, eat it up. I'm not hungry yet. Just eat . I'll eat some rice. When you're done, let's eat. Can I have some jellyfish, please? Don't drink. Don't eat the porridge. You're full. Eat the porridge. Yes. Let's eat candy, Uncle, let's eat. Let's eat. Okay, let's eat later. Rip the rice, then I'll eat later. Mom and I will eat later. Let's drink jellyfish at the right time. It's okay . Just take a rest and avoid it. I don't want to avoid Ivory I got a gift okay I got a gift Mr. B over there stop the drum nhh rest bro you just lie down and rest I'll go out for a while [music] Hello Yes so I haven't been at work all day What's your job like ? Yes, just keep an eye on your work, make sure it 's good and report directly to me . I haven't come back yet, Anh Now there's nothing for you to do. Go to sleep, don't think about anything, just sleep. I'm sitting here reading a book . That's my bed, that's me. I'm resting. Okay, just go to sleep. I'm sitting here reading, it's so annoying, my legs are tired. It's very good. However, there was a DC patient who was diagnosed with TH. I can also see a little and you 're helping me. I went to ask for the results. The doctor promised that the results wouldn't be available until 9:00 a.m. Now it's almost here, auntie. oh uncle Here you are. Are you almost ready to prepare your things? Are you ready? Yes, you've been here for a long time. Are you tired from the journey? About two or three more miles and I'll be back at your house. Yes, yes, yes. Yes, that's it, my child. Are you at home? Yes , sir . [music] Uncle, sir, Uncle. Yes, have you been home for a long time ? Where are you? I'm sorry, I'm sorry, let me go. Come out, come here, sit here and sit on the road, it's tiring. very no grandchildren no Uncle, let me give you a ruler. Where have you been? Oh, brother, you and your wife also went on a trip for a few months. Now your work is so overwhelming. You've gone to deal with the work. Yes, I thought you two were staying. Downstairs, down in the city, I squealed there. When I saw the door closed, I immediately knew it was up here, I was planning to stay down there, but it's so miserable. Old people don't like to live down the street. They like to come up here. It's quiet. Yes. Yes. Here, there's no noise. Let's go. Yes. Yes. Let's go Can I travel to many places? I can travel to many places. In 3 months, I have been to three countries. Yes, I like it. Yes, I drink water. Yes, I invite you to drink B country. How is your work over there these days? If the job above is a company, V guest Chu is normal. Also I don't care about work, I only care about the relationship between the two of you. It's been a long time but I haven't seen any progress. I'm old and I hope to have children and grandchildren. VH's daughter's love story, TH's daughter feels so sad, I don't know what to say to you. I don't know how to tell you. So how did that guy bully me? No, he was a bully. child but he is cold towards his child I don't care about my child anymore, but the other day I called and he told me that the relationship between you and him is still normal. That's my uncle, he's just telling me to reassure you. Now, don't worry. If you want to see me, I'll come and pick you up. Okay, I'll let you know later. When we see you again, I'll ask you what happened to this problem. The story I told you. Please don't say anything. Otherwise, I'll tell you that. Then he told me what he had, so I told him I told him to stop. He's very different now. Yes, I'm very different. When I went to the company, I didn't see you calling. He didn't answer the phone. Since he met the girl, he was so careless about his work that he always assigned it to him. Even when my subordinates do it, I feel worried. Yes, when I call, he keeps saying he's busy with his own work , but when I see him taking care of us, she doesn't know that he has to make up for it. I'm crazy all the time, but that happens all day long Yes, Yes, Yes, that's it. After I told him, he said it was my business. I 'll take care of it myself. There's something wrong. Yes, I'll come over so we can go up to the chair and see what 's going on. But the furniture and dishes have been prepared since morning, so B, take your things as well. Leave them there, please pull [music] and go up to get it. It'll be dark, sir. Now you sit in the front seat, Uncle. Just sit down. Sit in the back here My nephew walks and talks all the time. It's peaceful in here, Mr. Yen, I remember that it's the countryside, unlike the noisy house up here in the city. In general, the air is fresh and cool, so it's a great place to live. You guys are also old and like to be quiet. Yes, if my love life is progressing well, I just want to go back to my hometown for peace. Uncle, I only have one son. I also hope every day that the two of us can be together as soon as possible It's good but if you two continue to talk about love, now and then it's not going anywhere, but it's not very sad. Yes [music] There's probably about two or three more miles until we get home, then when we get home to put things away, we're done. I know there's a new restaurant that just opened in the countryside with a lot of delicious specialties. I invited you out there to eat . I also took Ken out for breakfast earlier. He's busy playing. Don't play too much to help her feel better. Yes, I'm so excited. I'll go over there with you Let's get the results. Yes, I just got the results and took a scan. The centipede's bones are fine. It 's just a little damage to the soft tissue. I'll prescribe medicine here. Let's have sex with each other. Let her take the medicine. It's okay. If you see the results, I'll take a look here. There's nothing wrong with her skeletal system. If the soft tissue is damaged , she'll still be in a lot of pain. If that's the case, send her to the hospital for monitoring. Yes, I talked to you and your mother just now, Hai My mother and I are also in a difficult situation and we live alone. Please let me go home. I'm just at home. Is it okay to go home now? But then she's still in pain, she's still in pain, so we have to get some medicine to take. Okay, after taking the medicine, I'll monitor it to see if there's any problem . I'll have to come here for a check-up. If I go home alone, I'm afraid I'll get hurt and no one will take care of me. Yes, it's better to stay at the hospital if I have a family. If your family is in the same situation, please come home Just let me go home but I have to sign an agreement. If there's any problem, I have to come here. Yes, I have a prescription for this medicine. I'll go buy this medicine because it's not covered by the insurance. I'll go sell this medicine to buy more of this medicine. Yes, I swear you will prescribe me whichever prescription is the best . Yes, I will be the one to pay for all expenses. Okay, first. First, I'm very good Thank you very much doctor. Now my doctor, Hai, is it possible for TH to discharge me from the hospital now? Yes, I am now. I'm just clicking here because the other day he entered it with my ID. Well, now the bait is done. Yes, if there's a problem, let's go pick up the phone. Yes, doctor. Doctor, doctor said. She's injured on the outside. The doctor has already done the hospital. Now let's get dressed and go home, I'm sure she'll be able to help my baby. It's too much. Wait , I'll give you two. Yes, it's okay . Go ahead. Check out the company. If I have anything in advance, I'll call to come pick me up It's okay . Is it in a lot of pain? I'm feeling much better. Okay, I'm home now. Just go home and rest so I can go home. Okay, if it's like that, just let me take you home . I'm so embarrassed to bother you all the time. I like to go home. Why don't you go and let me take you home? Please be careful. Be careful. [music] Please go first. Leave mom and dad alone. Where can I go ? No, I'm sorry , I'll sit down and get it Oh, why is this so wet ? Mom, are you in pain? What's wrong with you? Where does it hurt a lot? I'm feeling much better now. I told you. I'll stay there and watch for a while longer, but even if C flashes me back, I'll be much better, bro. I'm still there to get new money and I'm afraid that if I leave home for a long time, I'll lose it, so why should I pay them back? It's not like I only worry about following the guy who compliments me If it's okay, that's good, if not, go home and rest for a day or two and you'll be fine. I know you're very upset, but next time you go out , remember to pay attention to your children and your family. I'm lucky that today I got killed just a little bit, I know, but I'm also lucky that there 's a chance that K is okay, and I'm also lucky that he's there, or I don't know how scared I would have been. I really thank you, but luckily you and I are not What's wrong? If something happens, I'm sure you'll regret your fate. Luckily, you and I are both okay. Yes, I'm tired now. Let me help you to the house to rest. This child will go home with mom. I'm here I'm coming up to the house here brother let me let you let me hold you let me hold you let me hold you Pha Where do you still have a lot of pain? Where to hide the pain, tell me not to Can you hide it from me? Let me call the doctor to check for you. I've been naughty for a long time. I don't want to talk about anything. I'm bothering you a lot. I'm in a lot of pain at home. It's okay. It's okay. It's good. Now I'm resting here. Hey, I was out just now. The doctor gave me a prescription. Let me run out. I'll buy you some medicine. Just make me rest. I'll come back to you later. What 's wrong? Mom, are you in a lot of pain? Did you give it to me? Can I go to school, Mai? Mom, take me to school. Tomorrow, Mom, let's go. Be good . Are you hungry? Are you tired? What should I eat? Eat some skin for me. Yes, sit over here, Mom. Can you cook for me? No. Mom, can I cook for you? Mom, I 'm going to say, &quot;It's too much , let me rest a little, I'll cook for you, okay? &quot; You must pay the most attention No mom, you have to take my hand, you have to hold my hand, baby C, run out into the street , that mine car will hit you, if you don't save me in time, you'll die . okay Flow into the street, remember? That's the body of that number. Lam is like that. Remember, I told you. Remember to be good for mom. Thank you. You're tired. Go to sleep. Yes, come here. T too, mom. mother taught Mommy, please give me something to eat, and be gentle, go and eat until there's a guy sitting there eating right now [music] there this morning, baby, he's fighting with that guy and it's a good idea to go back to the car, bro Yes I'll see if I can get you the medicine according to this prescription. Yes, sir. I've filled this prescription for myself and I'll take it home. C, take it as prescribed because the doctor has prescribed it all and how to take it. it's all inside Hey, when I get home, I'll give it to the patient so I can drink it. Okay, how much is mine? Yours is 250 An. Yes , it's you. [music] is really okay, thank you. Yes . Hey, do you have any rice? I'm making it. How much can I get? I'll get you two sauces. Okay , I'll go out. I'll wait. Ok, go outside and wait for me. Mom , I'll bring you some rice. Oh, please, make some rice. Yes. Can you give me some rice mushrooms? Are you hungry? Are you hungry? Wait a bit for mom, Tiem. Yes Oh brother. I told you that you told me to rest upstairs. What are you doing ? Come down and cook for Ken. complaining of hunger, no need I bought you a mechanical box. You told me you didn't have to buy anything, so why did you buy so many things? [music] Yes, when I get back, I told you not to buy anything. I bought some rice. Honestly, here and again. Don't buy medicine for me, remember to eat rice and then take medicine before you can take it. Buy me some snacks, get some fruit for me, but I have to finish eating before I can eat. Yes Yes. Very good. The weather suddenly became cold again today Hey, let me walk a lot and it's too hard for me. Yes, it's okay. Why don't you wear warm clothes? Yes, it's suddenly cold today. Me too. I'm sure you're hungry when you get food. Is that right? Yes, here you are, you can eat with me too, rice. After you've finished eating, sit here. Go ahead and eat so we can eat together over here so you can sit here . Mom and I are going to eat and I'm going to sit here, mom and dad My child is eating with me. I'm marrying my child. I've told you a lot, right? You're already at a very high level. Eat this. Eat this. I'll make you poop a lot. Eat it. Yes, I'll just feed the child. I want to eat, take medicine, eat a lot, okay? Yes, is it delicious ? Eat a lot. Is it delicious? Are you cold? Are you cold? I'm wearing warm clothes. Can you eat this? Yes, let me keep eating. Eat that much, but you'll be healthy, right? So you turn here, I'll let you feed me. Let me eat after you've finished, what medicine will your mother take? Turn here, doctor. If you don't eat, let my sister feed me a little. Yes, baby. Just eat rice, after you finish eating, I'll take medicine so you can feed me. So I invite you. Yes, just eat and open your mouth wide [music] Yes, can you eat some beans or meat? No eating. Eat meat. Eat meat. Eat something Eat something Come on Yeah yeah yeah this one This isn't anything The meat is delicious but not delicious, don't you want to eat rice? Oh you have to eat meat. Turn your face here, turn your face here. That's good, okay, let's go. Here you go Eat meat Eat meat open your mouth wide open big big delicious Is it delicious I have eaten Still going to school? Yes When I grow up, I still help my mother do the work, but I'm worried and afraid to ask her if she can take me to school tomorrow. Eat a lot, eat rice. Eat a lot and then stop eating. Yes, eat. Mom, sing a song for me. Is your food delicious? Is it delicious ? Now the weather has returned. I've been sitting here for a long time and I'm sick. Now I'll help you up to the house. Yes, you've finished eating and haven't left yet. I'll help you with the cream. I'll help you get up and go on your own. Can I get up? Can I get up? Yes, you're very good. I need to be careful. Let's go and see. Let's go . I'm already very busy. You just go home and let me and my mother take care of each other. Just take a rest. Let me stay here for a while, I don't remember, I'm scared that something happened to you at night, there's no one to help. Yes, I'm sure it's okay. Take a break, I don't know if anyone will come in here. Mom's already late. You and the kids are both MN. Just go. Come home, mother and son No, it's okay, I'll be here for a while. I'll go down and work for a while. I'll just go home. Today, mom, let's go to sleep. Go to sleep. Tomorrow, you go to school. Tomorrow, Mai C. Study today, today , just take a break from work. I don't have time, I can do it for a while. If there's anything you need me to take out, just call me. Okay, just go home. I can take care of it myself. Hey, I'll do it. for a while Later guys , just do whatever you have to do, call An, I'll go, I'll go, oh my dear , oh my dear, please go home, I'm not here, I'll just stay at home and rest. It's cold like this. Are you feeling much better? It's okay , just go home, go home and rest. It's cold like this. Just sit there. It's not like I'm sick here. Just go up to my house. I'll do my work. An 's just going home. Why don't you go home? You don't have to come down here. Go up to my house. I'll go up myself. You just go home. let 's finish this part of yours too damn