Io is one of the most curious objects in our The innermost of Jupiter's big moons, it anything else that we have ever seen, including I'm Alex McColgan and you're watching you could want to know about the hellish world Let's get to know the context of Io a little Jupiter has 79 moons that we know of so far. There's a few that orbit close to the planet, Beyond that are four large moons, known as discovered them in 1610. From innermost to outermost, these moons are Beyond them are the irregular moons of Jupiter, previous moons. Io orbits very closely to Jupiter, only 350,000km This means from Io's surface, Jupiter would moon. Io orbits Jupiter in only 42.5 hours compared Its orbit is actually in sync with two of It orbits twice for every orbit of Europa, This is what we call an orbital resonance. Orbital resonances greatly enhance the mutual means the gravitational forces from the other more eccentricity than it otherwise would This is likely the primary heat source for gravity pulls and tugs on Io, causing tidal At some points in its orbit, the tidal bulge This affect is similar to what we see on Earth, moon, although on Earth the effect is much about 2m from high to low. Io is getting 300% more tidal force exerted of its close proximity to the biggest planet big moons in the system don't allow the Io isn't going to get any respite anytime A day on Io is the same as its orbital rotation, Just like we can only see one face of our be seen from Jupiter. Io is a pretty big moon, although it is the It is comparable in size to Earth's moon a similar amount of gravity. Interestingly, it has the highest density of its many unique features. Another is that is it composed of mainly silicate planets and our moon, in comparison to most are made of water ice and silicates. Io in fact has the least amount of water of Its core is likely is be made of iron or iron and crust. The core is not thought to be convecting though, the moon. The mantle is thought to be liquid near the This is where all the volcanism originates. Which brings us to perhaps the most interesting all over its surface. Before the 1970s, we didn't know much about to pick up hints that the moon was devoid sulphur. The first mission to see Io in any kind of was still not so great. What it did detect, however, is that Io was that it has a thin atmosphere. Pioneer 10 was also meant to take some close radiation interfering with the on-board command The radiation Pioneer 10 went through was around the Earth. The next missions to Jupiter were the Voyager Voyager I flew by at a distance of only 20,000km, ups of Io's surface. What it saw was a remarkable landscape, full impact craters. It found mountains taller than Everest, as wide, and what looked to be lava flows. Most notable however, was the presence of This proved that Io is volcanically active, has been visibly seen beyond Earth (not including Voyager I also confirmed that the surface This is what gives Io its many spectacular It found that it is these sulphur compounds Voyager II also saw Io in July of 1979, but it still saw 7 of the nine plumes Voyager had likely remained active throughout those The really interesting images came about with in 1995. The spacecraft wasn't especially designed some of the highest resolution images we now Sadly though, Galileo never worked at full malfunctions, which means we could have had What it was able to see though were plumes the volcanoes were erupting sulphur and silicate except the magma on Io is also rich in magnesium. The surface of Io is spectacularly colourful. The yellow plains are composed of mainly sulphur; frosts. Towards the poles, the sulphur is damaged appear redder than the rest of the planet. In other places, the colour of red are the hundreds of kilometres above Io. The most obvious deposit is from the volcano was around. Voyager I was able to see a massive plume is 300km tall and 1,200km wide, in other words, Interestingly though, the source of lava flows would normally see at the top of volcanoes, on peaks on Io. Instead you have these lava lakes with high Here is Loki, the largest volcanic depression These lakes are directly connected to the layer of solidified crust on top. On average, Loki produces 25% of the average on the lava lake sinks back into the lava, than normal. This can especially be seen in one of Io's Normally this area looks like this, but here In this image where there is just white, the intense that the camera only registered white. In 2007, New Horizons used Jupiter as a gravity It also used the opportunity to test its equipment. It focused its lens on Io during its flyby Tvashtar, the volcano I just mentioned, was hundreds of kilometres above Io's surface. You can also see other small eruptions around I must admit, this is one of the most impressive Even though the volcanoes tend to be flat, the highest one reaching 18km tall. These mountains tend to be completely by themselves, Although most are not volcanoes, lava lakes are faults in the crust near these mountains. Another of the unique aspects of Io is its Jupiter has an extremely large and strong of the strongest sections. The unusual thing about this interaction is atmosphere and eruptions are lost to space, in what is known as a neutral cloud. This cloud can extend far beyond and behind But also surrounding Jupiter is something particles that follows the rotation of Jupiter's The plasma torus rotates a lot faster than orbital velocity. Io orbits right through the middle of it, the particles in the neutral cloud, exciting These newly ionised particles feed into the of the magnetosphere. These particles are lost from the neutral 1 tonne of matter per second, which greatly field. In fact, if it was visible, Jupiter's magnetosphere the sky. Io's interaction with Jupiter doesn't Jupiter's magnetic field lines, which Io crosses, Jupiter's polar upper atmosphere by generating A flux tube is basically a concentration of The sun has these between sunspots, and it charged plasma that flows between them. Io's flux tube causes an aurora trail around This point here is the flux tube from Io striking Aurorae are also visible on Io, although they The different colours represent the different red is oxygen, and blue from sulphur. And there is everything you could want to Learning about the plasma torus of Jupiter matter, electromagnetic fields and energy Thankfully I don't need to be ignorant of great courses on some of these subjects as before. I've come to understand that for astronomy are also very important subjects. Brilliant already has a course on matter to will be coming soon! So why not give it a go? If you go to brilliant.org/Astrum, you can courses, and by using that link, the first premium subscription. If you want to support my channel and also this website. I hope you found this video interesting! Personally, Io has always captured my imagination I'm very happy to have the chance to do Also happy to have passed 100k subscribers! Stay tuned next week for my 100K special video Don't forget to like, subscribe and share, All the best and see you next time.