Alexander wasted no time in enacting his peerless Not only had he eliminated his enemies at but in 333 he confronted and crushed a Persian With that victory, Midas' proverbial touch drown in gold. But although Issus was a crushing victory, Darius and the remnant of his army had escaped reserve manpower of his giant empire. Welcome to our video on Alexander's conquests But if you're less about battles of antiquity vehicles, you should check out our sponsor It's a free multiplayer game on PC, xbox, 2000 machines of war from the last 100 years, from the USSR, USA, Germany, Great Britain, And it's not just ground vehicles; support do it in style by adding personalized customisations. That, of course, is on top of all the practical crew. You'll be fighting in a variety of locations battlefields, all with different tactical aviation battles. And if push comes to shove, there's always Not much survives this. And remember it's all free to play. Download War Thunder via our link in the description, days of premium account if you're a new vehicles! Despite a victory at Issus Alexander couldn't heartland now. This wouldn't just draw him into an unknown, but would also leave behind potentially fatal Much of the royal army's massive cavalry where they were sure to wreak havoc on Macedonian Of even greater importance still was the Great command of satrap Pharnabazus, had renewed most of it. So, while Darius began raising another army to continue with his plan to take over Persia's A few days of rest after Issus and the army into Phoenicia. Following the surrender of Marathus that Alexander III: if Alexander restored to him his wife, and called off the invasion, he would cede Cilicia to Sinope to Macedon. If Philip's old guard led by Parmenion caught the invasion had achieved all its objectives, during his war council and the proposal was It was in response that Alexander penned his let any communication you wish to make with Do not write to me as an equal. Everything you possess is now mine; so, if proper terms, or I shall take steps to deal If, on the other hand, you wish to dispute not run away. Wherever you may hide yourself, be sure I Alexander continued marching south, accepting Byblos and Sidon and the kings of Cyprus. Moving on even further south, the Macedonian at the turn of 332 BC. This most famous of Phoenician cities was Old Tyre was on the mainland, while the primary, on a rocky island half a mile offshore. As Alexander approached the unique city he the son of Tyre's king Azemilcus who, along at sea with the Persian navy2. Their demeanor was respectful and hospitable, However, they were not about to hand Tyre In response, Alexander expressed a desire within the island city itself. To allow Alexander to do this would essentially so the envoys declined Alexander's request, equally revered temple in the Old Tyre. Alexander exploded in anger, as he sometimes that they should not be so confident in their of the mainland. Once the envoys returned home, they counselled However, buoyed by their formidable island the strength of their natural and constructed If they hadn't been sure enough that this of Carthaginians began encouraging the people promising great reinforcement from their own Despite his anger, neither Alexander nor his the island city with a purely land army, as The king's temper cooled and he sent some people of Tyre to accept peace terms. Possibly mistaking this as a sign of weakness, and threw their bodies into the sea. The battle became inevitable. A great portion of the Macedonian officers task ahead of them. But Alexander, in his typically daring manner, He really would make island Tyre part of the To enact his scheme, the king had Old Tyre At the same time, parties were dispatched timber from the cedar trees on the mountain To supplement the hardy men of the Macedonian cities were drafted to serve as a labour corps strong. Now possessing the materiel and the men to a 200 foot-wide mole from the mainland across of the Sidonian Harbour. The king's engineers would sink wooden piles as a foundation, and then lay massive timber In the muddy terrain and shallow water adjacent and the mole's construction got underway Alexander was constantly present at the forefront how to proceed, motivating them with words for men who had particularly impressed him The Tyrians, initially believing the mole Alexander, jeering and asking the king if The Macedonian efforts were so disconcertingly efficient time however, that the people of Some of the city's women and children were ready and the defenders began constructing a proper fight in the very near future3. Trouble began for Alexander's besieging taking the construction near missile range. Aiming to stop Alexander's effort in its to each side of the mole. Near unopposed on the sea and loaded with skirmishing vessels darted in close and unleashed corps working on the land bridge. The draftees along with Alexander's soldiers, terrible casualties in this initial naval To counter this kind of attack, a series of as a barrier against arrow fire, allowing Two siege towers were also constructed at own missile troops a platform from which to Difficulties now began increasing for both Rumours of ill portents spread of Macedonian having visions of Apollo and it is even said before swimming away again. Next, to counter this latest stroke, the Tyrians loaded it to the brim with brushwood, pitch, This fire ship was towed in the mole's direction at the last moment, peeled away and flung siege bridge like an ancient cruise missile. It struck the edge and burst into an oily, burning down the towers and killing a great At the same time, the Tyrians launched another south of the mole and assailing the labourers from Old Tyre. Further inland, Alexander's timber supply by the raids by Arab tribes who inhabited Both of the resources needed to ford the strait Something had to be done to rectify the situation. After directing his dependable lieutenants even wider than before with towers and artillery, of favourites and rode north to Sidon in search As Arrian tells us 'for clearly, so long siege of Tyre would be no easy matter.' It was during the king's short stay in Sidon of the Issus campaign revealed itself, however Having defected from Darius' naval war after rulers of Byblos and Aradus pledged their Together with the Sidonians, that totalled high-quality crews. Other scattered vessels sailed from Lycia, More promising still, the Kings of Cyprus, 120 ships and added them with Alexander's While the burgeoning fleet was being brought king ventured out on a punitive expedition handled the Arab tribes who had been raiding Plutarch tells us that during this venture, during the night and personally slew two Arab Upon returning to Sidon the king not only additional mercenaries at his command. With his new armada of loyal client-kings back to Tyre. Initially, the Tyrians arrayed slightly off sea, but this giant force was far more than Wisely, the Tyrian fleet withdrew to the safety vessels. The balance of power was now firmly on Alexander's The Macedonian-allied fleet spent the night when the sun came up. As soon as it did, Alexander ordered the Phoenician harbour, while sending the Cypriots to do effectively neutralising and reversing Tyre's With that security, work on the mole began Unfortunately for Alexander, a ferocious storm the walls. Rain hammered down from the sky in torrents, This turn of luck not only made it impossible existing structure, setting the construction To remedy this, the king had a number of massive side of the mole, where they absorbed most When the storm at last subsided, these wave and the damage was soon repaired and expanded missile range of the walls. Intent on giving his workmen cover for the siege catapults and stone-throwers on the Together with the artillery-armed fleet and a withering bombardment against the Tyrian walls. Although under immense pressure, the Tyrians to break the force of Alexander's artillery From these Tyre's archers loosed volley vessels, while the citizens worked at terrific In some places that wasn't viable, so they walls to plug the gap. At day's end, the situation in the city still stood firm. Sailing around to the seaward side of Tyre to take the city while it was sleeping, but storm and forced to pull back. The Tyrians used this moment of breathing the shallow water adjacent to the walls, making ships to get close. In a desperate maneuver, Tyre's inventors to repel the invaders, including a fire-thrower rope-cutting scythes and even militarised This last-ditch attitude was exacerbated by Thirty more Carthaginian emissaries arrived to inform their mother city that aid would that impossible. Alexander spent some time clearing the stones his ships to once again get close to the walls. At the same time, following a final Herculean the way from the Phoenician coast to Tyre As Alexander had vowed to the envoys of Tyre city part of the mainland. The time for a full-scale attack had come. At the advent of midsummer, the Macedonians of the mole, and from the sea on their assault Massive stones launched by catapults smashed of stone and sending it crashing onto the Ballista bolts and archery fire raked the others duck for cover. Under the cover of this bombardment Alexander's to attempt an escalade that would finally They put fierce pressure onto the Tyrians manner, but also used their mad inventions Especially mentioned for their effectiveness and gravel, heated until it was glowing. This fine mixture was then tipped onto Alexander's armour plates and burned into flesh. After a long struggle which yielded no real king was once again forced to abandon the Dejected and exhausted by the long siege, bypass Tyre completely and march onto Egypt, up now would be costlier even than doggedly His persistence was to be rewarded. As they themselves were now in a desperate Harbour launched a massive naval sortie completely As the crews were at rest, dozens of Macedonian-allied and for a moment it seemed as though the Tyrians However, Alexander personally led a squadron off the overextended Tyrian squadron, destroying in the harbour, from where they could now The king's troops and ships followed up near the northern harbour, but he was pushed From there his forces turned to assault a the southern harbour, which Alexander judged Artillery let loose once more and a breach Rather than throwing everything into this attack and then withdrew. He was, however, now sure that the Macedonians A further few days passed as Alexander rested and waited for good weather to return. When the wind and sea quietened down on the assault vessels and launched a massive attack Artillery once again hammered the area, collapsing Simultaneous attacks were made from the mole to keep the Tyrians busy. When the main breach was wide enough, the valiant king strode through, closely followed phalanx and others. As though suddenly realising their ultimate contesting the Macedonians for every step. The fighting was so brutal that Admetus - captain the skull. But Alexander's men had done it at last, and gaining a firm foothold in the city. At the same time, Phoenician and Cypriot squadrons retreat of most remaining defenders on the by enemy soldiers. They ran and ran, pursued by the Macedonians, There they fought the last stand and died With the end of organised resistance, chaos At their king's command, Alexander's soldiers after long, frustrating sieges. Peter Green paints a picture of the mood and "All restraint, abandoned, hysterical and dreadful siege, mere butchers now, striking Tyre became a bloody, reeking abattoir." Only those who took shelter in Melqart's 7,000 soldiers and citizens were butchered by Alexander when the soldiers' fury died The casualty figures would've been far worse heroes. Although entering the conquered, hated city they, feeling the plight of their Phoenician to safety at Sidon. Tyre, already aflame, was utterly destroyed slavery. When news of Tyre's end spread, almost every prepared to surrender and Darius III, who sent even more favourable peace terms. They were denied once more by Alexander, who Pharaohs. As he went, time passed and the elements took Gradually the rough edges and sharp joints which so boldly connected Tyre to the mainland, Sand gathered and winds blew, connecting Tyre Today, as Green tells us 'deep under the stone core of that fantastic causeway still and permanent legacies to prosperity.' But the king wasn't finished writing his on Alexander's campaigns are on the way, the bell button to see it. Please, consider liking, commenting, and sharing Our videos would be impossible without our whose ranks you can join via the links in early access to our videos, access our discord, This is the Kings and Generals channel, and