Just not everything that we've done has necessarily made That's okay. And in fact, that's actually one of Hey, it's Dallas, time for another vlog. Thank you so much for joining me. And I'm going to get right into it, because today is a little bit different. Today's maybe a little bit more personal. It's less of an update than it is a, I don't know, call to I got a recent note on Facebook from someone They were expressing their discomfort with the end of season 1. They love the show, their family had been watching the show all together. I think she described her family as more traditional, maybe old school. And they loved the show. Up until the ending, and if you remember the end of season 1 is, Jesus is talking to the woman at the well, And after their exchange they have this really emotional exchange, and the Disciples show up and then Jesus and the Disciples have an exchange and then they leave. And as they're walking away this really kind of (music begins) It's a song, an original That we wrote, our composers Dan and Matt wrote specifically for that scene. And the lyrics are pretty One of the lyrics is trouble's gonna find you here. It's about how Jesus and the Disciples are in some ways, kind of, trouble makers and they're about to go out and start a little bit of trouble. And the style of music is, you know, it's kind of old-school, southern, gospel, funk, rock, meets slave Kind of similar to our Oh, child Come on in Jump in the water And she said it was really a turn-off for her and her family. And they were kind of Because she felt like it It lacked a little bit of And she even thought that it didn't quite fit the tone of the show. And mentioned that they really liked the music that would take place during some of the more emotional scenes. And it really got me thinking about what exactly The Chosen is about. And what it's for, and who it's for. And what its purpose is. What I realized even though I thought about it and I kind of understood it but I hadn't put it in these words is that The Chosen isn't supposed It hasn't made me comfortable necessarily. When I do the research for the show when I dig into the Gospels the process of making this show overall has been quite a slog, I've Some of the truths that Jesus spoke in the Gospels haven't They aren't necessarily And I've had to, in many ways, through making this show and I've had to, as it says on my shirt here, get used to different. This is our latest shirt. It's one of our official shirts it's a line from episode seven when Jesus is talking to Simon and he says &quot;Get used to different.&quot; And I realized I think this is a motto not only for us as we've and creating the means to watch the show with the app and pay it This is also kind of a call And to, when you watch this show sometimes you have to get used to That's okay. It made me realize when I think of all of the things that even people who love the show. Some of the things that we've heard that they don't love or that Whether it's the music or whether it's the opening credits music. I remember when we first released the first four episodes I got a few notes including from some of our investors, who loved the show and Whether it was the design, They just thought it, &quot;it doesn't fit the tone of the show.&quot; We've also gotten occasional criticism for other things, you know But it's still been present. Some of the ways that we have shown Jesus. Showing Jesus winking in Showing him dressing a wound, showing him getting tired, showing him telling jokes. There's a joke in episode five that some people weren't comfortable with. When Simon asks him if he And he says some things even I cannot do. And we've had some people say, &quot;Hey that's not what jesus would say, because he can do anything.&quot; We had several people when Who were uncomfortable with our portrayal of Simon and Some of their feedback we got when we were testing episode one they were saying &quot;I don't like Simon&quot; or &quot;I don't like Matthew.&quot; Plenty of things throughout these episodes that just didn't make Especially, one of the biggest things is I think some people get just by the fact that we and historical, and cultural And any time you're dancing when you're portraying it's a really risky proposition. And it requires a lot of care. It's very important to get right. Just not everything that we've done has necessarily made That's okay and in fact, that's actually one of my goals for the show. Now why is that? Why would I want to do to make someone uncomfortable? I don't necessarily set out saying I am going to on purpose do something just for the sake of making That's not really accurate. It's more like, I'm going to do things that are different and that may jolt the viewer out of your comfort zone so that maybe the show can feel different than other shows that Especially shows about Many times I have been forced to deal with something and jolted me out of my routine. Jolted me out of, that we can get into. When it comes to our faith we're so used to our own patterns, were so used to our own preferences. That when we hear that is different than we expected or different than what we prefer. It's a bit of a jolt. And that's exactly what I Jesus upset the applecart and when he was dealing but not just the religious leaders. A lot of time it's easy the religious leaders because he was always slamming them. But it was the people as well, because a lot of the time the people loved many of the religious leaders and the religious leaders weren't they weren't always and weren't all the villains we make them out to be. A lot of times they And believing what they were doing was absolutely correct, wanted them to do and rendering of the scriptures they had been reading their whole lives. And Jesus came along and said, Yeah you know what you're wrong, and many of the things that you're doing, in fact some of the things that were right at the time I am now actually going to And the time for those The time for those things And they were good, but now You know, Isaiah 43:19 even says, even in the old testement &quot;Behold, I am now doing a new thing. &quot;Do you not perceive it?&quot; With this show I want you to occasionally be watching and go &quot;Huh, that doesn't feel normal.&quot; I'm not afraid of that and I'm not afraid of you experiencing that. And here's what happens is a lot of times we've had people who said, &quot;Why did you do that, We'll say, actually yes it is. Then they'll go and check and go &quot;Oh my goodness, this &quot;remember or this is something that &quot;I didn't realize was there.&quot; And that's happened to When we've been reading and researching I've seen many things in the Bible that I was like, and I mean I've been a bible I went to Bible school, I was a Bible major in college and every day that I've been I've seen something that something that was different And every time it jolted me a little bit. And every time it's a good thing. There's kind of a list to consider when you see something that you're uncomfortable Number one is make sure before you go online and say that's wrong. We've had several people say, &quot;Why are you portraying Mary as &quot;having been possessed by And then of course they oh, gosh Mary Magdalene was Okay they had forgotten that. But just I think that's Whether it's with this show or just in general in life or point out something just make sure you're right first. Because sometimes, you're not. And that's very much true of me. So maybe just take a moment. Also sometimes maybe take what you're feeling is an There are lots of different And lots of different understandings of some of the things that are said there. Maybe you think that But maybe it's an opinion, Or maybe it's not a major issue maybe it's just a minor issue. We see this all the multiple faiths and faiths traditions involved in the show. We've got obviously dozens of faith traditions And we will see sometimes And sometimes I just want to say &quot;this is not a vital &quot;you know what, you're both right &quot;you know, you're looking at this &quot;just maybe from different perspectives &quot;but this isn't a fact, this is an opinion &quot;or this is a tradition.&quot; So just take a step back and make sure you're right first or at least make sure that's something that is really important. Because obviously some Before you go online and talk about it. The second thing is that make sure that you also recognize that thing that make you the very things that are drawing some people to the show. In fact, when it comes to One of the things that who was expressing her discomfort with the closing music of season one. I said here's what's interesting Is that the majority of people, that music that style of music, concluding the style of music in the opening credits. Is exactly one of the reasons why they love the show so much. That is is different. That is does show a side of Jesus, and a side of the story that we don't often explore, and don't often appreciate when we're in a Reverend church service for example, or when or project about Jesus in which he's a little bit more solemn. And I think it's a good that Jesus not only was and not only was emotional, and not only did beautiful things that required the kind of music that maybe you hear in the scene with Jesus and Nicodemus that's a little bit more emotional. But Jesus also stood Jesus was also a bit of a kick-butt guy. Jesus and the Disciples, and Jesus and his followers when they're walking. I think sometimes it's kind of cool to imagine them almost But at least, the very least just even just regular humans but who were a little bit of a source of trouble for a lot of people. And the opportunity to see them walking in slow motion with kicking behind them that's something that's And some people may find it irreverent but I don't think Jesus always necessarily aroused irreverence. I think there were many times when Jesus was with his followers, or by himself, or with his mother, where he was not actually walking around as though he was the son of God. Of course he was, but I don't think it always felt like that, sometimes it felt like he was the son of man. A normal guy. And the answer is yes, he And so when someone says to me, &quot;well that doesn't reflect I always kind of chuckle and I say, &quot;Well the tone of the show The opening credits music. Of course it's the tone it's one of the first things you see. And I'm actually telling you what the tone of the show is. That this is an aggressive show, it's raw, it's authentic, it's pain mixed with hope. That's what the lyrics are of the opening credit sequence. And throughout the show you'll see different sides of the music, different sides of the humanity, and different sides of Jesus. And all of those are part of the whole. And they don't contradict each other, they actually support each other and in my opinion, Because we see different sides. Many things that might have Again I remember several they didn't know if they liked it that Jesus was winking in episode two. And in fact, we get ten to one maybe even one hundred to one, notes from people saying that seeing Jesus wink, or seeing Jesus laugh, or seeing Jesus tell that joke in episode five about his own divinity. Was the very thing that made them love the show even more and drew them even closer to Christ. So just make sure, that you recognize that some things that might make you uncomfortable are the very things that draw people to the show. And that that's a good thing. And then finally I think that being uncomfortable is exactly what Jesus Many times through out the Gospels he said &quot;you have heard this, or &quot;you may think this, but I'm of course not Jesus, and I'm of course not God. Very, very far from it. But I often times am trying to be more like Jesus. And sometimes that means getting out of my own comfort zone and that maybe is different and certainly maybe different Everyday we get dozens, and Whether it's on social or on the app through the are people giving thank you notes. From people explicitly has brought them closer to the scriptures the show had brought them closer to Jesus and that they are seeing a Jesus that they weren't told about A Jesus that they didn't a Jesus who has a side, of him that aren't always portrayed. And so just remember that sometimes things that make you uncomfortable are doing it for a reason. And that many times it's to get us out of our rut, And that's what I hope And I hope that this show will continue to do this around the world, is upset the apple cart a little bit, that it will be different and that you and I can get used to different. Because I think that's what Jesus had his followers do. So if you appreciate that. If you liked this video please hit that subscribe button or that notification bell It's how you know you can be aware and be notified whenever but it's also again how And doing that allows YouTube to get these videos in front of more people so. Thank you for joining I will see you soon. In the mean time, get used to different, and also realize that it's not your job to feed the 5,000, it's only to provide the loaves and fish.