I'm about to go into surgery. I'm feeling my body. You know, the kind that can meet up with once the doctors remove those human eggs, they booming...&quot; &quot;freezing their eggs until they decide the is changing but our bodies aren't. As we get older smart people figured out that it's possible to them later. They can even mix the eggs with sperm humans invented cryosleep, just for tiny balls of that no other species has ever had before but worth it. Because let me tell you, the process medication for weeks and at the same time I've learning as much as I can about this cutting going to take you behind the scenes into my own How does egg freezing actually work? And what's the Okay now I actually have to go have surgery. Let's do this. Alright, I'm about to do my first injection. Hang on a sec. This is going but first you need to know why Thirty years ago, the average age of a shifted, 25 to 34, with the most common age now going to school and prioritizing a career that group but one thing on my mind is, as I get not for the reasons you think! Turns out your high you might have seen a diagram like this and you baby are egg sperm and roughly 9 months inside a much better sense of what's really going on. attached so when an egg is released from an ovary pick it up. In some cases, an egg from the right tube. Then the egg hangs out in the tube for 12 to and if it does then these tiny little things form an embryo, travel together into the uterus, has to go right in order to get pregnant and There are lots of challenges with both sperm and focusing on eggs. You might have learned that going to have, roughly 1 million. But around 10,000 hit puberty with around 300,000 eggs. Then each So over time, there's this big decline in quantity always thought it was THE big fertility issue ovulation stops at menopause, most women still about how many eggs you have, it's also about call this &quot;egg quality,&quot; which has nothing to do be. It's a binary measure, 23 chromosomes or not. number of chromosomes, you might be thinking of condition where an embryo survives. Most of the that embryo never implants or grows. The problem you get older the chances that that egg doesn't to get and stay pregnant. But hang on, if I'm like they're all already in there, why would it that my body is secretly prioritizing that they change somehow over time in my ovaries? doctor. This is my real doctor, Dr Pfeifer. She's an expert in fertility. She's actually operated on my left ovary. I'm totally fine but she's seen my trust her. She explained what's happening to my ones with 23 chromosomes, it's not that they egg prepares to be fertilized, it duplicates the is more likely to have those 46 chromosomes divide as effectively&quot; and that can make it harder to get if I want to have kids later in life? This is where a little scary. &quot;The reality is that a woman's mid-30s, and everyone says oh after 35 it declines, then, not significantly but the the start is then.&quot; miscarriage do go up with age and the odds of really shocked me was the data about eggs. &quot;Rule of 80% to be chromosomally normal. A woman who is 42, big difference.&quot; During this conversation, I could I really don't want to think about this. In fact to think about this. Sex ed was all about how your life it turns and people are like &quot;you have be able to later&quot; and it's really hard and it's by people who say you know &quot;fertility falls off a That's not true. I know many people who have that they want and been very happy. And at the pretend like this data isn't real, and it has a live - I have so many things that I want. So just wanted to wait?&quot; is I totally could. And I also could kids when they want to. I know lots of people who scared of that. I'm really worried about that. I choice in the comments and you know I feel like that that's going to happen. This is my personal people on what they should do. I'm trying to even more frustrating is that right now there's I fall on these charts today or how that might tell me exactly what my egg quantity and quality to get pregnant now. Two, wait and see what my technology. You know the part in the movie exactly the same 100 years later? In sci-fi basically egg and embryo freezing - pausing I've been wondering, why them and not me? If cryofreeze adult people? Answering that question works. The key is water. Our bodies are filled and forms sharp crystals. If we froze you would shred you to bits from the inside. To replace most of that water with a special so that that antifreeze mixture solidifies in a your body in time. But unfortunately we're the to our volume. You'd either end up full of warm math for us just doesn't work yet, but for eggs and is very high, so medical experts can vitrify them achievement that we can do this and we're getting whole organs which could in the future make organ day maybe even vitrify a whole person, who knows, eggs in the 1980s and was ruled not experimental have to get a lot of them out of a person which is make enough eggs to actually freeze, I first need ready this month, I need you to prepare as many is to inject myself with hormones. So over the This box has all of my meds in it. It's big big got to see something. This is my privacy dashboard. myself removed from or rather Incogni has gotten sign up! So why do this what are data brokers and make money buying and selling your information and picture of you, they call it a shadow profile, that want like assessing you for insurance or banking many of them to remove you. They reach out to these person&quot; and then crucially they follow up to make right here here the requests they've sent, the completed on my behalf. If you'd like to try this Now back to the story. We're about to Lil help? Ok! Med one, med two, med three, med four... categories of medications that ovaries &quot;hey get as many eggs ready as possible,&quot; release those eggs because we're going to come get and these look like they are all... syringes... is at least two injections every single day for myself with anything before. We can do this. I these injections, the timeline, it's all exactly the of: IVF, in vitro fertilization. That process fertilizing them, and then putting embryos back out part, just not the putting back in part yet. my first injection. I have this little video... before you begin...&quot; Getting all the meds ready is simply pull back on the plunger. Gently rotate really feel like I'm Breaking Bad over here. &quot;And entire time but eventually... &quot;Hold the pen at a 90deg I did it! I feel so completely out of the world didn't prepare me for looking stomach. Okay so far so good. Next one... then ow ow oh We're good. That one just hurt more. Not the in hurt. That's fine, it wasn't... I was surprised but On the first day, this process felt really something wrong, I just didn't know how to do it really fascinating like I think it's amazing our body certain hormones to get it to do the think that egg freezing is just totally awesome. really fundamentally cool. But at the same time to me that as it exists right now egg and embryo a lot of time and mental energy. Planning when be not just a two week period of injections and insurance... it's just the mental load of doing but it's not feeling super easy. I'm a real tough make it, I said they said got to fake it you takes a physical toll on your body. Day eight, I'm abdomen ow, but it's okay. These hormone shots often and headaches and sometimes more serious side where your ovaries respond too strongly To try to avoid that I have to go into my doctor's hormone levels. If they get too high, they'll change I can handle... the third big issue is cost. Depending on and what insurance you might have egg or embryo up to tens of thousands of dollars. That is a huge It's not guaranteed that this will even work. The walk through the math. The average number of eggs We'd like to get 20. The majority of people will Then some get damaged as you freeze and thaw them. some won't successfully get fertilized. &quot;The average to have 14 embryos. Then we expect half of an individual is 30, 31, we would expect you know 75 - like 5. Each chromosomally normal embryo, we live born baby.&quot; But 20 eggs isn't some magic number. People are different, and these numbers can change slightly if you fertilize the eggs before freezing for a very uncertain outcome. I'm constantly going to work. I've heard it called an insurance hedge. It might help my chances if and when I want options and more peace of mind but most of all I Imagine for a second that it does in 20 years egg much more reliable. More people can do it, meaning they want. How might people's lives really change? or who haven't found the right partner or who to have kids? How do you think society would change much better this tech is going to be in 5 years long but I'm really excited for what this might be I just have one left. Okay it is 3:00 a.m., 3:02, trigger shot. Up until now, all the shots that I've more eggs but don't release them.&quot; But the trigger release those eggs.&quot; The egg retrieval surgery has so my egg retrieval surgery is at... whatever that I'm so tired. If I messed this up, it was all for Boom. I did it. Okay good night... So I'm about to go into surgery. I'm feeling really is a 15-minute procedure. Dr Pfeifer is going to eggs that my ovaries have prepared over Hi! I just got out of surgery and I'm feeling fine. I Alright, it's been about a week since the procedure, I'm you've taken just a ton of hormones and it's a bit but it's also a journey for the eggs now too. They At the end, they get stuck into tanks like this and This process has been deeply personal but this that could be changed as this tech gets better, was hoping, based on my body and my medical history, success. I felt like it was worth it. But it could have how it's going to go if I ever want to use them. early stages. It's hard and it's expensive and it's feeling is grateful. To my body for listening to and doing its best. To my doctors for listening available science and tech to help me. For the make the heartwarming sometimes heartbreaking math And to you. Thank you for listening. This has been and I just really appreciate it. And it's because this is &quot;huge if true.&quot; The huge part is how this want, live the lives that they choose. And the if true (Wait for it...) If you like this kind of optimistic science and It really means a lot. Thank you and we have so many Oh no I finished my Oreos. No more Oreos.