The god of Mount Gelmir is a serpent, and it has the Erdtree, In an era we know little about, there Gelmir and a forgotten religion that venerated curved sword, which was a tool used to offer up serpent deity. The serpent takes. The serpent is where the serpent was a Symbol of Avarice. the serpent consumed its sacrifices and grew vast. They brandished the serpent hunter, a weapon have been used to hunt an immortal great serpent when facing such a creature. So it is that we can but the serpent never dies, and so it would return deep into Mount Gelmir seeking power. This is the demigod child of Radagon and Rennala, who Here, at the Church of Vows in Liurnia, the House champion of Gold, and Rennala, Queen of Caria, and Lyndell. Eventually Radagon would abandon with her. These children were Ranni, Radahn and hair and Rennala's aptitude for magic, and all When Radagon divorced their mother and married Rennala's children were never demigod step stop. That's because secretly, Radagon is Marika. of a god, even though they might not have known some benefits, it seems. For one, Radagon's aside their step siblings in Leyndell. This is thrones are arranged. It's almost as if there there is no council, and Morgott's spits out their traitors to the positions of authority they Lunar Princess Ranni.&quot; Rykard, having the title of an extremely interesting point of discussion. city of ancient Rome, where a Praetor was a sort from a courthouse and its collection of judges. involved with the law, but were also involved with might be a stretch to say that Rykard had that assume that Rykard's Praetorship was busied justice by any means necessary. And I feel safe of Gideon. &quot;Praetor Rykard is the lord of the justiciar who commands a company of inquisitors.&quot; he was also lord of the Volcano Manor, a structure west of Altus Plateau. It was to here, I believe, and I think that theory will make more sense try to learn more about Rykard as he was before Leyndell. To arrive at the manor. One commonly you to the Volcano Manor. Take my hand and have met with a well maintained grandeur not common impressions are important here. You make your way you're invaded by the specter of one of Rykard's and his lore reveals just how ruthless Rykard's iron wheel lined with flesh flaying blades that of torture that kind of evokes the torture wheels very effective at getting Ghiza's victims to tell I imagine Leyndell would have had a lot of truths for it sees many things as sins. For example, if the Shining Grounds. If you were a prophet then you could be exiled with a wheel bolted to with the frenzied flame, you could get your entire yeah, the Golden Order isn't exactly flexible. And with order. But historically, that was only true that it couldn't be overcome any other way. Aside of the inquisitors was the Inquisitors Girandole, then singed the wounds with flame. Basically, it so that the torture can continue for longer. victim, and this candlestick, conceived by a behind the curtain at the Volcano Manor. Now, the to any one faction. There are godsskin nobles, said, the most common nobles are those from the are undead wanderers who abandoned their the nobles in Elden Ring that the Inquisitor's it was these citizens of Leyndell. So for the that I believe Rykard was spiriting away nobles behalf of Leyndell. I believe this happened during shattering when he abandoned the capital. But is controlling the Volcano Manor while he was still but it's mostly circumstantial evidence. Here's dialog. At least that Rykard was a Prater. While Next, We know Rykard's inquisitors tortured very much inspired by the fire of Mount Gelmir. links the Volcano Manor with his Praetorship in who have a crest of red feathers that symbolize a veneration here of Radagon of the Golden Order, Rykard before he became the blasphemous Lord evidence that suggests the Volcano Manor at Mount admittedly, none of this is conclusive. However, The official's attire is a piece of clothing we realize it's a near-perfect match for the attire of this nameless figure in a portrait that hangs again, we have a link now between the officials of is this portrait and figure? Why is Ghiza wearing Leyndell? The lore of the officials attire reads to carry out their grim tasks surveillance, drive the wheels of mankind. To loot this item, Here, right on the border of these forbidden hidden path that leads towards a small office. previously wore this attire. Ahead of them is this it's here, presumably, that this official would which again included surveillance, executions, these tasks would have been done in the service of where we loot the Blade of Calling the same dagger out on a journey to fulfill her duty long ago. office of Leyndell was involved with Melina's topic for another video. The big deal here is that which links him an inquisitor of Rykard, to the drive the wheels of mankind behind the scenes in rituals. Thus, as befits a Praetor, I think it's really were involved with the governance of by these officials doesn't just cover Leyndell and attire and their order can actually be traced to nearby township. The reason I speculate this is piece. In fact, every other slot is filled with more than a tightly wound bandages soaked festering body beneath. The clear implication indeed. A reveal of his face by ZullieTheWitch is the shaded castle, which explains it are the Marais family, who have this long, storied which lets us know that these Castellan's of the generations. This mask is customarily worn by the wraps that Ghiza wears. I think it's a convenient well known that the sons of House Marais are all which is a tire that is almost identical to the it has this black mantle across the shoulders, and strikingly similar to this portrait in the Volcano just so much overlap here. But to summarize, House are sickly born and have served as executioners. the attire of the officials who served Leyndell, surveillance and gruesome rituals. Therefore, aided Leyndell in these dark capacities, and since Leyndell official set and is sick with blood looks like a Marais noble. I also think it's fair were not only loyal to Leyndell, but originally them would have been loyal to Rykard, who was a been involved in magisterial and punitive duties Landale. I love the picture that this all paints, out. The shaded castle is a part of Altus Plateau, assimilated by the local superpower and become a Erdtree began. Indeed, the attire of the Marais the Consorts Robe and the upper class robe, we think these Leyndell officials were tasked with like to imagine that they invited many nobles, the Volcano Manor to dine or die, perhaps with the The nobles are received by the proprietress of a place that's designed to receive and entertain a gorgeous dining room upstairs, a living room to that guests can retire to. However, a couple of illusory walls that lead to a dungeon and a world merely a facade, and these rooms likely exist for interrogation. So we've established the Rykard's questioning and justice. And because of this, the most cardinal sins of the populace. So I ideas started to get through to him? Did Rykard is a portrait of the Erdtree burning, hanging if he started to believe in the visions that the If we imagine that Rykard was exposed to all of think that this Justitiar would eventually become the current Elden Lord of Leyndell Radagon had woman. I'm just speculating here, but perhaps this right with Rennala's own children. Luckily for resentment towards the Golden Order, and she Rogier, Ranni orchestrated The Night of the catalyst for the shattering of the Elden Ring orchestrate something is to plan or coordinate alone. She had help. First and foremost, there who used black knives infused with death to murder the forging of the Rune of Death into knives, a blacksmith. Then there's the matter of the theft takes credit for. But one thing I feel that it's with her plot as well. The Blasphemous Claw is an and it reads A slab of rock engraved with traces the black blade. On the night of the dire plot. Should the coming trespass one day transpire, allowing Rykard to challenge the Black Blade, the learn Ranni rewarded her brother at the end of her seems to imply that Rykard had some part in all worthy of recompense. So what do we think that the night of the Black Knives? One of my favorite magisterial duties in Leyndell. Since Ranni's to murder Godwyn the Golden, and perhaps even to place, it makes sense that Praetor Rykard would since he likely had authority over law and order be lax on the Night of Black Knives. Or perhaps defenses. And if you subscribe to the idea that like some of the old Roman praetor's had, then, course, how Rykard earned his reward is very open deemed worthy of this reward, and that gives us us that Ranni knew about Rykard's blasphemous merely harboring blasphemous thoughts was worthy a valuable reward the blasphemous claw. It wards which posed the single greatest threat to the Rykard. One thing I kind of love about Rykard is years, he still keeps a portrait of his brother by all accounts, was a bit of a Golden Order the first Elden Lord and the red hair of Radagon, that this would be a painting worthy of being of a burning Erdtree in the same building, and kinship between these, The children of Rennala, to say is that I think Rykard really loves kinship between the demigods generally went Marika's remaining kin claimed the great Runes of Hear me, demigods, my children beloved, make of be it a God. But should he fail to become aught sacrifices&quot; with words such as these, And with great runes. It's clear that Marika was laying pronounced shattering war. Of course, many did Godrick the Golden tried and failed to take back new grace given Lord of Leyndell. And many troops knights also clashed with Malenia's Cleanrot and when the war efforts were spent, many demigods wounds, Essentially. Rykard, for his part, clearly this time, and between all of the demigod I think Rykard's would have stood out for one wrest control of the Golden Order. No, he wanted Instead. &quot;the Erdtree blessed the tarnished face of the enormity of their task. The tarnished like the shard bearers vying for power in the has refused to scurry about, fighting over what and indeed the very gods would debase us so then even if it means heresy. We at the Volcano Manor done&quot; before release. Miyazaki has gone on record blasphemy represents one of the strongest wills in his determination and commitment almost enviable. I imagine his troops were as well. Indeed, both their loyalty to Rykard and his lofty ambitions. and The Ex-Gelmir Knight, all mention Rykard's to hell in the end. &quot;A fine mess, but how else heels courting lady blasphemy.&quot; So this is Rykard At some point, Rykard delved deeper into the forever. For Mount Gelmir contains truly ancient that history barely talks about. The most gods curved sword, a weapon that was formally forgotten religion once practiced on Mount Gelmir, jaw that consumes the vitality of enemies. We can culture of sacrifice helps us to explain another Hexes. Typically, in FromSoftware games, a hex is skull flying towards enemies. In Elden Ring, this for example, summon a horde of vengeful spirits, though, hexes in Elden Ring all seem to involve talks about this. It's a heretical staff fashioned creature impaled on the end. The creature is red glintstone, and the staff says that this This sacrificial process might also explain you were being sacrificed, I imagine that would But with the age of the Erdtree usurping so many been seen in the world of Elden Ring for quite necromancer Garris? He's this sage who fights you is described as a heretical sage, and his heresy that run counter to those of the Erdtree. One of Once thought lost, this ancient death hex Incidentally, his little snail buddies in this skulls as their shell. They're similar to the are able to summon spirits. I don't think it's are so death themed. I think the Great Serpent culture that existed in Mount Gelmir long ago, that Garris rediscovered an ancient death hex so himself would go on to rediscover ancient hexes Rykard clearly had a knack for sorceries, and he The magma shot sorcery reads. After discovering Rennala, brought them back into practical magma sorceries are kind of a type of hex magic. its aspect. So maybe lava sorceries being a type sacrifices that had been made to the serpent God of the serpent, and so were hexes. But there's as does the coil shield, the serpent bone blade, the god devouring serpent itself spits a great Considering this, I wonder if Mount Gelmir is at the shaded castle. Now, you could argue this is more of a poison that's born of stagnant, I think there's a couple of things that suggest perhaps even from the great serpent itself. To and the serpent that I don't think many people Arrow reads arrow carved to resemble a slender venom. These arrows were used by the people of the their enemies. The Serpent Bow then elaborates, and then the release version of the Serpent Bow formless serpents, with a bow that supernaturally once a lot of overlap between the Marais and the anyone else had commented on this connection, user NahMcGrath who had made some excellent influenced the culture of the Marais family. I'll but basically they argue that the Marais might rituals that we know took place at Mount Gilmer in current age also involves execution as a family to use on behalf of Leyndell and to add some more blade, once used for offerings to the serpent, So it would make sense that humans, maybe the such sacrificial executions. Again, all of this valuable insight into what the devs were thinking to bring things back around to my original decent proof that the poison in this environment proof that this poison probably flows from Mount brings us to Seethewater cave brimming with is seething and flowing underground. It's located and the most curious thing about this cave, a minor Erdtree. And this minor Erdtree is dead. this tree might be dead, at least partly because Manor wanted this tree dead. And I think that this terrible war that would come to this region. what are the minor Erdtrees? Well, it seems This is explained by the Golden Seed description, these seeds flew from the Erdtree, scattering its end had come. The seed talismans go on to say and thus it was believed that Erdtree seeds could into minor Erdtrees that spread the ailing tree's the feet of minor Erdtrees, basins were set up which physick chemists would then use to brew These offspring of the oak tree were defended by The avatars seemed born of the Erdtree itself, and in its historic radiance. They were determined to wake of the Elden Rings shattering. the Guardians aspect seems like it has blossomed over time. and their weapon says that they are known as though, they made what is now an ancient pact with not to destruction but instead to renewed eternal it is said that the blood red flowers blooming on of that ancient pact, and I think that's a sly and thus neither was their ancient pact. proof that the Erdtree is capable of rebirth, about based on some murals found in game. And weapon description makes it clear that they had to Erdtree guardians. But of all the minor Erdtrees to guard the one at Mount Gelmir. This one was increasingly defined by their resistance to the have protected this minor Erdtree for a time, desecrated and killed. Now, it might be a stretch intentionally or even unintentionally, by the are Leyndell knights and scouts who have ventured be sheltering here, I like to think they're Though I should be clear, this is largely my own minor Erdtree might have died for example, maybe bring down this Erdtree, since it's the unleashing later in our timeline. So why not use a minor Whatever the case, this minor Erdtree is dead. And battle. So, considering fire and burning pretty convinced that the death of this minor what Gideon calls the most appalling battle in the about defense, right? And there's evidence that it walls. It is said that the soldiers of Leyndell is to protect that which deserves protection. And one exception to that, it seems, was the assault an offensive. There are numbered sites of Grace at here, And then there's ninth Mount Gelmir campsite campsites, clearly, I think, suggests a sort of Mount Gelmir. But the battle itself clearly took where there are mountains of the dead and the It's a pretty grim scene. The only note of brevity brought to the assault on Volcano Manor, where While that's kind of funny, the aftermath isn't. quite a while. Bodies are even seen on both sides just throw half the bodies off this broken bridge conclusion to draw is that the war occurred so long that a land upheaval broke the bridge into We do learn from the Gelmir map that the land but please let me know if I'm missing something on Rykard's side are dead and gone. But what about These are the marionette soldiers, and they're likely belonged to Rykard, considering his ones that really fit on here now, Since they're blasphemy or the state of the battlefield. A the assault on Volcano Manor, the squalid, the with no glory. The fact that the assault on sick makes me think again of the serpent's poison. attack with poison pots, so it's not ridiculous have been used against the house of the Erdtree the nearby Grace references the nearby road of grossly unfair behavior, and I think we experience encounter this troll warrior. It's hard to say for towards it, fighting on Rykard's side since it's though, this troll warrior has seen some shit frenzy frenzy. As you might know from our age of visits those who have simply experienced some here, and with many of the Leyndell knights as a bunch of Leyndell knights can even be found horror of this stage. So it's no wonder, then, And eyes of Yelough, which grow in lands afflicted a spirit once allied with Rykard muses on the helps to sell the idea that morale was fading But things would only get worse as Rykard was perhaps I should clarify, at the time of the war, serpent. This is mostly because of Tanith. Tanith when Rykard first set eyes on Tanith, she was made her his consort. The description then goes his side when he became the serpent of blasphemy. his side when he became the serpent, the war since he obviously still had humans at his side you definitely could still argue that Rykard had this war. That's because of these tattered flags depiction of Rykard and the Great Serpent, not decorated with serpent symbolism. So yeah, as it fed himself to the serpent yet. I think maybe serpent symbolism on the banner, and in Ghiza's closer to when we explore. But it's hard to say feel free to let me know in the comments. Whatever was the beginning of the end, and I think the fed himself to the serpent. Great Rune and all. It by him. We know that Rykard delved into Mount but he must have uncovered a lot more within a serpent god that could not die. But why did one, it's certainly possible that losses from the his troops pushed to the brink. The serpent might but that's just speculation. in terms of concrete which makes it very clear that Rykard took the grow and live eternally. Rykard is then quoted as and perilous. One cannot walk it unprepared the so-called giant serpent consuming Rykard is vast as the Great serpent that we fight in-game. it might make some sense that it would be this to suggest the Great Serpent was actually defeated a smaller creature, or diminished in size. that it's able to begin growing back to its former If you look closely, you realize that Rykard the snake. Off to the side There are even a couple and only one of them has hatched. So did the great eggs? I don't really know what to make of this, so maybe I shouldn't be taking it too literally. his final moments, Rykard briefly saw a vision the world, a vision of the future. This reminds that a lot of you might remember where another God of the future, except where Rykard foresaw a the coming age of the deep sea. The question is, visions of the future? Or are they more like It's hard to say, but given enough time in these that these things would never happen. Also, enough that even if Rykard or Aldrich were to in Rykard's case, after all, &quot;A Serpent never the serpent was one step too far. &quot;someone please Your tarnished. He is a put the demigods serpent. Praetor Rykard's ambitions, Though they were reduced to gluttonous depravity. Once he is, it is no longer Praetor Rykard. Someone from further dishonor&quot; This is the armor of the any longer standing, as it does for a lord that Indeed, there are no living Gelmir knights so to did these knights lose their master. This is great sword and spear, thought to have been used past. It manifests a long blade of light when aspirations degenerated into me agreed, his men their lord. The fact this weapon exists obviously to kill it in the past. I guess sacrificing the weapon uses a type of white light power that I and I wish we knew more about whatever enemy ago. Regardless, this was the perfect so they heroically tried to use it against Rykard the Lords chamber. Worthy tarnished, brandish the That unspeakable monstrosity.&quot; In a way, these of him. At least they wanted to kill Rykard to Rykard was simply remaining loyal to his ideals If dignity to go down this path, the serpent takes And to Rykard, this was just an extension of his rule when he had turned to heresy long ago. and there might be more truth to that than we to feed itself, for example. Or look at Godrick own strength. All things can be conjoined. Indeed. to his ideals, his forces signed up to usurp And so Rykard lost the favor with the majority marionettes actually weren't the only automatons Rykard also had the Iron Virgins, also known as have a lot going on with their designs. For one, symbolism that I hope might be explained in the here. And I'm not talking about the strips of nice and cozy. I'm talking about the snakes. you'll realize that the snakes are actually I think these abductors are likely piloted by damage when hit, which is a bit more evidence for machine. The fact that snakes appear here seems to shattering, and after Rykard took on the serpent at this latter point in the video, as I'm trying and I think these entities showed up later in that habit of abducting people, and now it was the victims away. Not unlike the snakes of Dark Souls snakes is quite metallic, almost as if they're to snakes, having a metallic appearance, there phenomenon. In Elden Ring, the coil shield, for to the point where it's able to bite and still too, wear armbands that are embellished with whose bronze snakes briefly actually come definitely something going on with bronze snakes have lore that explains that the snake has become keepers were actually once gladiators who were The snake is viewed as a traitor to the Erdtree, effigies, beaten and battered in gladiatorial is viewed as a traitor to the Earth tree, thanks with the timeline of Elden Ring. Rykard was only the arenas where the gladiators would have fought and the practice was said to have died So if audiences were delighting in seeing the you'd think that would have occurred in Godfrey's the snake must have already had an ill reputation in, so the DLC is not yet out as of the making suggest that Messmer and his serpentine aspect and since Messmer as a character has clearly the land of Shadow. I wonder what could he have this event have anything to do with the great Maybe? Could it have something to do with the and a fire that can burn down the Erdtree? Or Erdtree with his own flames? So many questions, for answers to questions like these. At any rate, snake's reputation any favors in this modern as Inquisitor Ghiza's signature weapon, which was I wouldn't be surprised if Ghiza invented them. abductors comes from patches &quot;You're making your that might help. A special means of reaching your The clunky contraptions are whirlwinds of sickles with a spell of transposition, and get this. A water wheel in the Academy of Raya Lucaria. Its If you get caught in it on purpose, it'll chuck so I'm told.&quot; This explains why this abductor in while the others can't. Their abduction powers are it. You'd think a Son of Rennala would be capable this time. This one intact abduction spell takes where they could be interrogated. Rykard's war machines. Obviously, after making an enemy of Volcano Manor for interrogation anymore. The world the shattering, I imagine these machines were about the state of the world from widely across widely across the Lands Between. They're endlessly though they're teleporting and enchantments are machines. One in Gilmer is missing a head and has a demi human ambush here. Maybe they beheaded advantage. That same sort of thing seems to have which is stuck at the bottom of a cave. and it's clearly defeated many intruders that's also what's happened to the one in and apparently that's the best way to deal with interrogation chamber that this abductor takes you The need for that seems to have long faded, along Somewhat ironically, these days, it seems that become the only remaining line of defense in this which is a mask forced on a victim's head to lend one's fears and makes them acutely aware of all keen to torture Albinaurics, but everyone hates I guess Rykard was no different. Indeed, done to get Intel to quote the item. When longer seeks answers, only to inflict suffering state of the Volcano Manor. As it stands, when our it's now a place crawling with grotesque creatures As the name implies, the man serpents were born with another species? At first glance, you might between Tanith and Rykard. Rykard had become one and Tanith was utterly devoted to him, to the a tonic of forgetfulness to wipe her memories of be no greater distress than to forget you. So to the point where he wanted her to forget what he she refused. However, despite this dedication to the man serpents. Maybe that was another trauma &quot;I will never be a good mother. My heart is too meekness is all too clear.&quot; Let's learn more about Rykard met Tanith when she was working as a dancer from her Dancers Castanets, which are these small their hands as they perform. Tanith's reveal that but merely a dignified beauty and I think they're for a reason. After her meeting with Rykard, she Rykard wanted to have children with her. &quot;Lady grace of a glorious king. that my mother cherishes serpents are explored more deeply when we meet quickly reveals herself as Zorayas, a man serpent the end, Zorayas comes to the conclusion that she she was born in some repellent birthing ritual mother. &quot;Funny, isn't it? I am certain of it. mother&quot; The truth of Zorayas birth is revealed by mother's womb, which cradled the poor, unwanted never dry out, remaining damp indefinitely. Truth terrible woman named Daedicar. We can surmise this at the end of the questline. Its description was flayed. She smiles with a serene tenderness, woman, named Daedicar indulged in every form giving birth to a myriad of grotesque the Japanese word for grotesque used here describe the deformed man serpents in English. The to what the serpent's amnion calls a repellent the man Serpents. The serpent she consorted with this because in the 1.0 version of the Daedicar man who was one of Captain Rykard's paramours. It the Daedicar's character could support the lore of they needed to be a woman. However, I imagine the could conceivably still be intact. Therefore, I the man serpents. Not to mention the man serpent the elder serpent that dwelled on Mount Gelmir man serpents followed. Also, the similar naming piece of evidence. And finally, the serpent unwanted offspring. I'm told the Japanese word for that Rya is a noble's bastard child, which she is not her birth mother. So it is that the man unwanted at all. An older version of the serpents with particularly intelligent offspring, and while just because of Rya, but because of this guy. if they're royalty, with a lavish cloak, jeweled here surrounded by human remains, and they're in nobles, who are at the foot of the steps as well. serpents poison. Clearly, man is no longer valued their stead. Indeed, the man serpents are actually suggesting that they might speak on his behalf a Carian, a former one, at least like Rykard, getting off topic. The bloat head serpent itself and the Gelmir Glintstone staff they wield faith in addition to intelligence to enhance the would likely be directed at the serpent God, and the man serpents intelligence that they considering the Carian influence and maybe the staff itself even makes a lot of sense for at the tip. As the catalyst and red glintstone is and the serpents once had a culture of sacrifice of sorcery, the man serpents in general seem to like the copper round shield, for example, which the magma blade, which was fashioned from actual have made. Clearly, these serpents have an sorcery Gelmir's Fury, The arrogance of attempting and serpents alone. Speaking of serpents also, and they're at home here in the lava of the heroes who aspired to become dragons, but actually doesn't relate too much to Mount Gelmir. towards serpents being lesser dragons again. staple at this point. Within the Volcano Manor, which could be a reference to their once heavenly draconic eye and his wings and snakes elaborate on some ancient history, we're missing. Speaking of all of Mount Gelmir is this place, the Temple serpent's amnion, that product of a birthing This item is overshadowed, though, by this the assume might be Eiglay who the temple is named piece of speculation is that this large serpent's that might be explained by the presence of the godskins lore briefly, the godskin nobles once who was clearly a character who was a proponent of about the Gloam-eyed Queen is that there's Gloam-eyed queen doesn't just care about death, amnion, this product of new birth, might actually maybe the godskin wants to bring death to the other godskins in game, is allied with blasphemous Or maybe the godskins have ties to the snake Maybe they were involved with the man serpent because you can speculate in a ton of different going to stop myself here until we have the DLC, light. I'm also going to hold off on discussing as we'd love to cover them in a more cinematic treading the same ground twice on my channel supporting my videos and seeing that Prepare to check out my Patreon. We have some new Patreon as well as some new artwork that you can get if that out if you want to support, but also get that enough. For now though. I'll end this video age, which is this. It's to here, The tarnished the Recusants and prove themselves as a champion. commonly seen as followers of grace and therefore a meeting with Lord Rykard, who wishes now to so that they might all become one with him and King, as family. Together we will devour the Lords carcass is vast and not easily consumed. wish to be your serpent, your family. One day. do a proper prepare to cry episode on these who helped in the filming and preparation