Good evening. Good evening Laurent. Good evening Pascal! Thank you from the bottom of my heart You know how important that you are the first viewers So you participate than those who watch us on TV comfortably seated at home Thank you, thank you for your loyalty of truth and emotion. Without further ado, to face on this plateau, And to do this, Pascal, we're going to go And here I am. Well, here it is. Oh no, because it's Maeva who accepted the invitation Good evening Maeva. Nice to have you. Do you know the show? Yes? Do you like it? Did you ever imagine finding yourself No, not really. I feel good. I feel very small Is she tall? She's much You are tall. How tall are you, Rebecca? That's big for a young woman It's true. I said of your generation. But I still find I feel very small. There is a big one next to you, We're going to bring the big guys together. We'll see you in a few moments We'll leave you with Rebecca for a little while. We will leave the lodge who has a truth to tell. His name is Olivier. How are you Olivier? Welcome. Beautiful beast! Big guy! Yes, absolutely. Passionate, but not a rugby player. Yes. Yes yes. The person you haven't seen or spoken to him More than ten years. Yet, he is someone who is since she is your daughter. Your daughter. How many children do you have? And he's the eldest? And the others, do you see them? So she's the only one with whom, We will discover why and how, and which is missing from your life She is my daughter, She is the first in the family and with blended families. It's always heartbreak, separations. It's true that it wasn't easy. to keep communication You were with Maeva's mother. After a while, You are rebuilding your life with someone from the same family She's a cousin, right? Cousin Germaine. Is this the proximity There is always criticism where we still stay in the family cocoon of the same name, It's true that it wasn't easy. It was poorly received at first, but over time, more than ten years We had four children. So there you have it, that's one thing. that we live every day in the same family as my daughter, We'll see that in a few moments. You were with Maeva's mother, you broke up with the cousin. I had a partner in between. That's the question I was going to ask. You didn't cheat on him No. But that's when of your ex-wife's cousin, Yes, it complicated things a little. Especially at Maeva? I didn't get his reaction because from then on, You don't know. I didn't get nor back on his side. While preparing the show, you still told our teams had not given Maeva a great welcome at the time. Things weren't going very well She already knew there were which were installed. For her, she put up a few barriers for me or she stopped me a little bit with my daughter and all that. So it was a little complicated. I was not supported. I wasn't supported, between my life and my daughter It was very difficult. Very hard, very hard. I lived 13 years ten years in Brittany, and then ten years So we made a movie of your life. We will watch, and you will explain There are bonds Like a father's love Olivier became a father How can you not melt If the love he has for his daughter feelings for the mother So they split up Olivier rebuilds his life Tensions between the two cousins will weaken the bonds At first, father and daughter but he is caught and his new partner. Meetings with Maeva More than once, Olivier will not come, Maeva will forgive once, But in the end, who has clearly All these missed dates mark the end of their relationship. But when Olivier pulls himself together, Maeva seems to have turned the page. So every month, the distraught dad For a year, It's been 15 years became deafening for Olivier. Not a day goes by But he remains hopeful that he will be able to renew ties. Tonight, will Maeva forgive of not having lived up to expectations? The moments of happiness This is the last movie of my life. You have written tons of letters What motivated you to write? Seek forgiveness, Words of fatherhood, of support. I tried to fight because since the communication I couldn't get close to her for a year. I never got It hurts more I lived in my daughter's shadow and I saw my daughter's evolution through social networks, Without seeing her in real life. And no way back on the other side. What is her character like, Maeva? She is a fighter. Strong character. She is courageous, a fighter, a human being. She has a big heart, she knows how to give to others. She is an extraordinary woman. She has always been like this What gave you, Olivier, the desire to take this step after so many failures This is my last breath. It's stupid to say, Because since 2016, I have accumulated I have not been active I have accumulated so much and I am lucky that I have behind, And I dedicate all my time, all my energy to them. I wouldn't have time Because I need And there you have it, that's the process, the last stone Does she know about all this? Are there people who talk to him Yes. I think it has echoes Since there are family ties So automatically there are returns. She must know She knows She must know Your ex-wife, Maeva's mother, Are you getting along well We were in contact, How are you? And that's it. Given this character, even so for years, how lucky is she to open that curtain? It is true that it is not easy It's not easy to talk like that. I left this morning I remain calm. If sometimes, tomorrow, If Maeva came today, I think it could be a trigger So there you go, I take my precautions, I seek forgiveness. The absence of a father. Because before and I didn't see my daughter grow up, I had so much work to do I should have been when she was past her teenage years and I didn't answer his call. Is that why Oh yes, yes. Visit failures. And then the family situation. You think she can be touched, by this approach? Time has passed. I don't really know how she'll react She is a woman with a big heart, when it affects her personally I think so, when we have love. Two options We speak from experience of this type on this plateau. Either she opens her heart Maybe tonight is the opportunity. He comes like this in redemption and try to tell me So I'm going to soften my position. Or on the contrary, which consists of saying: to talk about our private lives. I haven't answered your letters. It's been a long time I have clearly made a choice, That's why negative or positive, Why did you have the idea I have been following you for years. There are situations which were very touching, And I had the opportunity To say maybe to reconnect with my daughter, This is my last chance. So help you it's done since you're going to see her on the other side of the curtain and she will be in front of you And then she will make her decision. Afterwards, if it is hard, that it's not easy we will have to respect his choice and remind him that as a father, between a girl But if it is not his choice unfortunately, we won't be able to do much. So we will be your best advocate. How long I saw it in a photo but in reality, no. Rebecca went to bring him your invitation. Olivier, look. Today I have to hand in this invitation to Maeva, who works in an accounting firm, and choreographer in a baton twirling club run by his mother. We have a meeting right there accept the invitation Even if I don't handle the stick well, Excuse me. Yes, I'm Rebecca from the show Let me hoping to see you Thank you, thank you. There's a resemblance, huh? It's family. Rebecca is invited. She has absolutely no idea, who invites him tonight. Are you ready to open your heart? Yes? If you want some advice, The last gas pump. Don't go into too much detail It puts the person in the position and that's not the issue tonight. The challenge is to open your heart that afterwards you have time and find you again. OK? Courage Olivier. We'll see you in a moment. We'll let the curtain before he could find Rebecca. I'm here and we're still happy. It was very hard in a dressing room but we're happy. Maeva, I think there was a moment where it is better and know I'm going to ask you to stand up. You're going to follow Sam Thank you Rebecca. Come join me. Are you okay? Pascal. Good evening Maeva. Are you okay? Please sit down. Where are you from? The city of Futuroscope. Nice city. Since I was born. You are a... Chauvine? Exactly. even if you don't know Maybe I'll tell you about it Do you have any idea? A woman or a man? A bad or a good surprise? We'll see. In my opinion, A declaration of love? I don't know that, I'll give you a first clue. Do you know Someone is going to ask you a question. Do you prefer the past or the future? I am rather anchored in the future. Not very nostalgic? Yes, but we don't move forward in the past So it's a solid foundation, the past, So rather the future. Does this clue help you? Yes yes. A second one to see if it confirms Look. Is it possible This is often a question Many come with this request. Can we make up for lost time? No, because time has passed. So we can only Well done. It depends on whether there is harm It really depends on the context. Do I suggest to you? to discover the face of the person I came this far, So Franck Broqua will make this person appear who stands on the other side of the curtain. No surprise. We understood Your father. You are his first daughter. His elder, his eldest. Unsurprisingly, that means: I know what I'm going to tell him. Nothing more will happen Exactly. Or unsurprisingly in the sense... I thought it was him. Do you, however, agree to listen What does Olivier want to tell you tonight? For the approach, yes. Let's go. Olivier, it's your turn. Hello Maeva. I don't know where to start The four truths of all these years in the shadow of your life, And I know that along the way, mistakes I made next to you, that I tried I tried to get closer to you many times to explain myself, justify myself and in vain. And today, because you were always You have always been my big girl, I never replaced you, and it was very hard for a father I know I couldn't cope. At the time, I was working too much. I was out of step with your life, And as a result, I made mistakes that you already know and I know to know that tomorrow a common thread of communication, I'm not here to rush you, You were my pride. I'm proud of you, I followed your journey through your photos, I saw your evolution. You have become And it was true I can't live without you anymore that I would never to want to fight that I never wanted Neither to you nor to your mother. I have always had And there it was, the situation was as I experienced it and I would like I would like to ask you for forgiveness and And we put a cross on the past, we don't go back to the past to reconnect family ties. This is our love and I think and that I always loved you It's very difficult, very difficult. Since 2016, I let myself go and I cling to your stepbrothers and half-sisters Because I spend my time And they know what you are like. And I would so much like because you have half-brothers and sisters free to react as you hear it. I will be by your side if you need me. You listened to this tirade said with the heart, obviously. He hadn't prepared things. You didn't flinch. Not an eyelash moved. Very strong is the one who could read the beginning of a feeling. I think you're full of it, But you didn't show anything. Does it at least touch you? that he is here tonight, as a last attempt? Does this move you? Does that upset something in you a little bit? Not really. Do you want to say why? Do you have I think he must surely I don't deny the pain he may feel. So we are not here I mean, it wasn't where there were events So it was a bit of a culmination, let's say. That's why because this momentum, as a last chance, previous events. He wrote to you a lot, A difficult and complex relationship. You have the right It's your choice. Why do we resent a father so much? that we never speak to him again? You should know that he too gave no further sign of life. So when you grow up with it, We build ourselves with that. And we also get used to the absence of people. But life is long, things and people, Tonight he takes a different step. He comes to take a double step, He just said things I wasn't a good father, It's not easy, as a dad to admit it in front of the whole of France, with the judgment So a real job of contrition He comes to tell you I love you, I miss you, you are my first daughter and it is not possible and without at least Yes, I heard, in his previously sent letters. Have you seen the letters? Have you read them? But have you read some of them? And ? Over time, there are things It's unfortunate, the side where, without realizing it, I agree, but I also want to have that possibility not to and to have my right to say in this life. Reconnect with the person, I have this choice too and in my opinion, I also have this label to wear What label? Someone who is free since life is short and everyone has the right which is my case. Of course we can call ourselves a father, Time flies, life is short, which seem truisms and sometimes we realize to listen to them a little more. So the people who are watching us, our loyal viewers that she is so upset and she doesn't want to forgive? We talked about forgiveness, to be able to correct errors, etc. You may not want but do you think you have enough good reasons Yes, yes, repeatedly, And he failed to seize those opportunities. So, at some point, And at some point, to protect yourself and move forward. The chances are not inexhaustible. Love can be endless sometimes. Can you honestly say tonight that you have no love? You don't feel love anymore of which you were nevertheless We've seen lots of pictures of you, little, so cute with your dad You don't have enough love for this father anymore to remember all this to open your heart just a little bit? No, I don't have enough anymore. Olivier, do you have anything Because maybe Maeva is not It's been over a year Your cousin Germaine, that I am separated, for the little ones you know, to hear about them. I've been all alone for a year and I decided to devote all my time and until the end of my days. I swore it. I gave 30 years of my life blended families. It was failure after failure I lost you, I lost my son from Brittany. So result, it's over. I am 58 years old, I want to dedicate the time I have left to my children and to you. And the only oxygen It may change something but the way you will perhaps analyze things coldly, what you just heard, which clearly did not necessarily meet with your approval. You should know and I had no problem with that, on someone in the family I don't care. And again, I don't want to incriminate I don't want to put There are things This is not the first time But still, So I'm tired of lying. You will be asked Facing the curtain. Olivier, your father came this evening to ask you for forgiveness, tell you that he and that he really regretted them, that you also miss life of your brothers and sisters, What do you decide? You leave this curtain for many years? Where do you open it? I'll leave the curtain closed. Thank you for accepting Thank you for having me. Thank you. Goodbye. We're going to open the curtain Join us, Olivier. We did what we could. Your daughter is really big on potatoes. I start from a negative or positive principle. I have the answer. We'll let you go Olivier. Keep us posted Especially with what's happening to you. THANKS. We will reestablish for a new story. It's now, Pascal. I'm here. Yes, yes, yes. I'm here With whom ? With Clemence, How are you, How are you? Do you know why you're here? A small idea A big one. Maybe we'll let you explain to Rebecca off air the idea you have in mind if you want. And then we will discover here, the person who has an important truth to tell Clemence tonight. Love, that's good. Hello. I'm fine. Sit down. How are you, Samuel? And you're from Chez Luke. I think But everything suits me Pascal. You are particularly What do you do for a living? I am a hairdresser. And you dress like this to come here, Always like this. Aren't you cold? You are beautiful. Thanks. So who is Clemence Clemence is the mother of my son Your sweetheart for how long? How old is your son? What's his name? Are you two very much in love? What did you come to tell Clemence? I came to tell him It's super important that we have the same name as my son. For me, the meaning of marriage is also family. If she agrees it is the realization Why haven't you gotten married until now? I already made a request She said no to you? After a month, she said Then she got pregnant afterwards. So the project started. But as soon as I talk to her about it, I feel like it's not There are two different things, Is marriage not important to her or is she running away from it a bit? Which would mean that she doesn't want to get married at all, perhaps. We come from a family, where we are Spanish gypsies So there is a traditional marriage which is not official and then, Explain all this to us a little. You believe strongly And traditions, What are you planning to do? My dream wedding is a grand wedding, without invitation, A big event Truly, a big wedding. When she was 20 We had decided and to go and get married in Indonesia. Laurent asked an intelligent question for once. Do you feel that or she has doubts No, I think that for her, for her it's enough, For her, a child and I agree. But for me, it bears my name, I believe you also have a wish quite quickly too and especially because you are thinking I think of my parents It's super important If something happens to them tomorrow, If my parents aren't here, They are the ones who passed on my culture to me, If they are not there, I have to do it as soon as possible Emergency related How did you meet? She is a hairdresser too. She came Then it wasn't Little by little, It happened all by itself It wasn't does that mean We didn't like each other. It was very volcanic at the beginning. We made changes It's funny, who start where we don't get along. It is often said that it is like that, Your hair salon, Is it in Gironde? Yes, in Libourne. I'll come and get my hair done at your place. My pleasure. So we're not at all sure I'm not sure because I know it's optional. I know that having a child, her role as a mother, For her, we are a couple, we have a child, we are fine. She is happy in her daily life That's why I'm afraid What if she didn't open that curtain? We hope and we will do everything But if she says no, I'm not a fan of the idea, Is this likely to break something in your home? No, it won't break anything. That's why I'm making this request. Clemence, she's the woman of my life. I wouldn't see myself without her that I introduced to my parents, She's the woman of my life. How? Yes, it's going really well too. She adapted well to my culture, I'll be super disappointed if she says no. Are you planning a little ring, She has already accepted the ring. Clemence is smart. She is smart. We'll leave you It's up to you to convince her. And then we'll find them. Close it tightly because... Be careful because there are two or three I saw two or three fainting spells. Come on. The curtain closes. We find not at all serious. We are not serious at all. It's very, very funny Do you know why you are here? I asked her if she knew We're a bit blonde in this dressing room, Okay. We didn't notice It's nice of you to explain it to us. Listen, maybe Clemence Clemence will come and join you. I'm going to ask you to stand up. You're going to follow Sam THANKS. Hello Clemence. Welcome. Hello Clemence. How are you? Do you know the show? Do you like him? We are very happy to see you tonight. Especially since We like... Bringing people together. We're not supposed to tell you too much. And where are you from? I am a hairdresser Libourne, so in the region... In the region dear to my heart. I don't know Libourne. Well, it's a little to the north, Where there is good wine. It's there. You see Bordeaux. A little to the north. Beautiful wine region. Have you asked yourself Who invited you to the set? Woman or man? I asked myself the question, Nobody? Is there anyone around you who has something to tell you? Someone you haven't seen No one to reconcile with? Yes, I had a fight with a friend. With us, we go back in time in Only the truth matters. So it could be that, for example. Maybe. Otherwise, it could be I'm crazy in love with you. I have my darling in the audience Do you have a boyfriend? Bride ? We are married in the name of our community. What does that mean It's in Spanish. Okay. You don't have his name? And you have children? With him? How old? Let's hope this is not An ex who would come to win you back. There it's certain that I'm not opening. All right. And if he's there in the audience, That's not going to do it. We're usually careful. He says no, You want a hint? Look at these screens, Clemence, will ask you a question. For you, does When you love, Yes. What is this clue? That's all we had on hand. It's a little hint, we agree, This is not the best clue I don't see who it is. No, but it means... Wait, I'll do it. There are people, love of one day, They are not faithful. When you're in love, But yes. But yes. There are people for whom love is a real clue. There are people for whom love, people who say come on, You don't care But she is Excuse her, we understand. It's between Girondins. We understand each other. Do you believe in lasting love? How long has it been? Oh yeah, that's not bad at all. Are you hoping to have a second child? But why? Never in my life. Oh no, because I have Who takes all my energy So it's over. Where are you deformed from? I came back from Turkiye What did you do? Have you had plastic surgery? What kind? Oh yeah, yeah. What did you do? Things like that. What's the deal? This is something you don't know. What we call It is usually located And you will give us the address Alright. At this point, you no longer loved yourself to the point of doing It's not his fault, poor guy, Did you do other things? Have you done other things? There would be too many Have you done a lot? The mouth? Breasts? The nose? You have a very pretty nose. So the mouth, the breasts. The body, At my place, And liposuction. And that's it. I feel like there's still That's all, Don't be indiscreet. I don't have a problem. You for example, there are cosmetic surgery operations that you have undergone that you don't want to talk about. Yes, what is below. Anything below the belt is a matter of modesty. I can't tell You mean, Of course, of course. Hallux valgus. It's interesting How old are you? 22 ? It's still early. Each to their own. Sure, but... He loves you, He is the same as me. Ah, he did some too? The whole lot? Not the same things, He's a good looking guy then. He is very handsome. What did he do? He did the cheeks, He cut his teeth. And you are a kind of Ken and Barbie couple. People call us that. But what is your model? If you had a magic wand To me. That's the right answer. That's the right answer. We forgot them. Look again, Do To the symbols? Are symbols important to you? The act of putting -Yes, a little bit anyway. Does that help you? So. Do you want to find out, Yes. What is he doing there? He was supposed to be Do you know this young man? Is he an ex? The handsome guy? Surprise? I have no idea Don't you have I hope it's not Otherwise... I don't know at all. Do you want to listen to it? Samuel, it's your turn. Hello! Surprise! Are you okay? Yes, it's fine. If I brought you here, This is to tell you something If I take so many forms, this is so that you realize You know, three years ago, I had already asked you to marry me We had planned and finally afterwards, I don't know Then there was our son and then we are very, very good But I would really like and that you bear our son's name, That's how I see things. We must all have the same name. I will be very, very proud I know everyone adores you that you bear the name I will be very, very, very proud. So, if I brought you here, to this project that we had. It's a little You would like her to accept I really want This is not a whim, you never know, if tomorrow I won't be able to get married without them. You, it's the same with everything that's happening, it's going very, very quickly and I tell myself that as long as we are well, we have the means, we can really have this crazy wedding, I think we deserve it We can't do it again to someone Here, I would like Surprise? For what ? Because I didn't think Why did you refuse It's not that important Not anymore. Now that we have our son and since we are married I thought that was enough. I didn't think he When we talked to you about symbol, Now I understand better. The symbol of yes, we love each other, But let's seal this. And let's mark it and the fact that you have Do you know that, What will be your decision? Yes, I know that. Very moved, Yes of course. In this show? Something else to say, Samuel, before we ask Or give it to us? You already know, I love you like It's rare and I'm really happy We have a family, things that can't be bought. And I think that, And I know that I know you're the right one. So here it is, Nice statement. Samuel told us that at the beginning, When you first met, You couldn't stand each other. At first, What Look out, I can hear you. No, but I liked everything actually. But we I think we... As we worked Do you work in the same salon? And who is the boss? Ah, is that him? And he's a nice boss? But not too much, actually. Now it is a little more so. But I think Finally now, I'm going to ask you to stand up, Be careful, huh. Facing the curtain, on the other side your sweetheart for four years, officially tonight. Do you accept Yes. So we open the curtain. Be careful. THANKS. He told us I didn't bring the ring You both look good. Once home, you talk of your transformations? No, we have a child. Quickly, But as we talked about what's your next operation? Not yet. What are you thinking about? You both look great, You will never be able to be as beautiful as Laurent and me. We wish you lots and lots of happiness. Lots of good things. If you want to invite me Libourne is not too long. Arm in arm. Be happy. We will discover a new truth and we will welcome Who is taking a very important step for her tonight. She comes to find her father on our set. Her name is Lea, ladies and gentlemen. How are you, Lea? Come here, let's talk. Welcome. Lea, we owe it to the truth We two don't know each other very well. No, we met ten years ago. At the time, At the time, we were producers. You were touring Paris. I remember you very you were full of determination, You will tell us That's not It is a very personal approach. I appreciate you pointing this out, compared You were a beautiful soul, It's also important to remember. But it is important to remember and he had been very good And for that, I thank you. This very important step this evening, try to find this father that you haven't seen 20 years old. Jean-Claude. What happened My parents were married and when I was eight, Mom didn't see it coming. We were a very close-knit family. My father raised like his own daughters. A very close-knit family, Overnight, he said to mom, finally, at my mom's, We came home and there, amazement, My older half-sister said to him: I have very bad news, Stunned, mom in an anxiety attack, And I didn't understand. So he went to play petanque, I was a little disconnected from the situation. Mom, in shock I have to call him. So she spent 24 hours in tears. No news from him? Me, not too present I remind you that when you are eight years old, you are a child and we don't have the maturity of an adult. The next day, Mom and I who was very close to him, And so my godmother Jean-Claude, You were very close to Martine, very close to this family. What is this sudden disappearance? Well, I can't go back. I don't understand what I'm doing I have to go. I can't turn back. So my godmother my mother collapsed there is still And so the days passed, my dad did is to go and withdraw So my mother is in double trouble. She went to her work. No more share for his children. Knowing that she was on minimum wage, to raise three children, with my father so we were very happy. And you are Jean-Claude's only daughter? Mom had two children from a first marriage And so she went to the garage Because your dad He works in She told him we need to talk. Why did you leave? Above all, you should at least have the decency to hand over this money. I find myself alone on minimum wage Plus, a state of shock. How do we do it? And she said to him: I will come every day. 48 hours later, he made the transfer. He told her I don't want to hear about you anymore. So there you have it. This is the story of your mother You, little girl, to see your father regularly? The first year, I was reluctant because from a physical point of view, Sometimes we went Everything was going very well. With his partner? With his partner, It was going very well. He was showering me with gifts to indirectly make up for this story. I saw my mother devastated. when I came back from these episodes, Mom who was very angry with whom I had great times, but unconsciously, And then we saw each other like that and from there we decided, I'll pull myself together, excuse me, to see each other in secret. And there I asked him but why? This is horrible! Why? I am not a speck of dust. And so he told me it's very complicated. I think my wife And so we met in secret. from 15 to 20 years old, for me because We met at the toll booth in secret, At the toll because I am from Carcassonne, and when he came to do where he is a great champion he was doing competitions. It was always when I called her, You dialed the wrong number. When I called him at work, he would tell me to go away and hang up. So for years, where I had nothing to do with it. But I was trying to understand the consequences that children have. And I say to myself I prefer to call him, see him secretly than not seeing him at all. From 15 to 20 years old, Why at 20 you decide not to see him anymore or to stop this somewhat shaky situation? It was absolutely not me He was the one who started to distance himself Why can't we call each other anymore So firstly, of a little girl to live in Paris, to do my shows, to live in the capital And he didn't like it. He said: There is no way I don't understand why since So it doesn't matter. So he didn't like it. Then, overnight, he lets the calls go through. He didn't call me anymore and I went home for two years in a nightmare I went to his work in tears. He told me that it was no longer possible. I asked I never got a response, except to tell myself: She was the common denominator. They still are. Are they still together? You know that? They said yes, but I haven't had any contact for 20 years. And then at 21, you get sick, your father has been warned, I didn't know he was coming. As I was hospitalized for execrable, atrocious pain that I wouldn't wish on anyone. So mom felt as a mother Your daughter is in the hospital in Narbonne, you have to know something serious. And so the doorbell rings and it was him. Forgive me. As it had been two years I fell ill at 22. And there, I saw him as, I want And I forgot my IVs, my pain. I forgot everything. Time for a shock. And he came to see Who cares what I have, we don't care My moment, he's here. It was the most wonderful hour of my life, because I had never apart between two toll booths for a few years. It was always freestyle moments. And yet. And then, disappearance. He disappears again. So I went to his garage. He didn't want any more contact, any more contact. He was in denial? Is it that he himself, decided to block? And so indeed, ten years later, my godmother died So there, second shock effect in an anxiety attack, stunned. In church, it's horrible to say, I was crying for my godmother, head turned to the side, all I could feed on him. How he was dressed. Was he wrinkled? How he behaves with his wife. All these moments were stimuli, because it was an opportunity. We always say that there is death that bring people together Since this death gave me ten years later, to see my father again. But a quarter of an hour, And then I told him: Can I ride with you I went for it head on. I warned my mom, she said: Go ahead, go ahead, go ahead. We went to the car, and there I threw a bottle into the sea I had never called him dad, but it was a way for me I said dad, let's take back what we cut. Ten years have passed. Yes, don't worry my daughter, You're right, we'll talk. I said to myself, What did your mother-in-law say? I call him a week later, and there I call him. He says: You must not call me. I don't want to hear about you anymore. You must never I told her: I'm just your daughter and I would like to share with you, this is who I am, this is what I do, Even having grown up without a dad, because precisely, is that I also want to honor who grow up For me, it is but the most beautiful proof So Lea, before asking you exactly tell him, those missed appointments with a father THANKS. The day Lea was born marks the beginning of a beautiful adventure. A few months later, his parents promise For eight years, Jean-Claude and a caring father The beautiful story when Jean-Claude decides to leave everything, without looking back. A decision Lea will stay with her mother. Jean-Claude A little too much perhaps. After the divorce, the father moves away His visits are becoming And then nothing more. When Lea becomes an adult, She's the one who's going to contact him. Building a bond after all these years Although Lea begs him Jean-Claude remains inaccessible. He has rebuilt his life Every time he promises to see her again, For 12 years, Yet his absence remains painful. So tonight, Lea decided to write a new chapter, will be the main character But will Jean-Claude agree to play this role in his life? We will find out If he accepted our invitation. We see you are very moved Lots of pictures of you Before the age of eight, we don't have But the memory you have is of moments of great happiness. Beautiful. My father very provident. He sheltered mom, he raised, he raised my mother's first two daughters, from his first divorce He paid for the studies. We were doing sports. Really, we were You seem, when you say that, in advance to your dad. As if somewhere, As if he had two faces. A first face with your mother, with a wonderful face And then a second face a new love or who would have turned his head. There was a lot of hot and cold. I wouldn't call it manipulation. I think he was under pressure which I will not mention. Family, wife, work, and who perhaps Do you think he's a little manipulated, Very possible. If he accepted the invitation, You think this approach here can change things compared to He seems inflexible, but that you have already done Indeed, he already knows it, But 20 years have passed. So I hope that in his life, in his head and in his sufferings, to medical suffering, and that life is short. So I want to tell him that I don't blame her at all, neither her nor him. Because life is short, I have the capacity for forgiveness and that despite I want to tell him it's the first time And even if it is not I want to even just and also tell him Because I think that with forgiveness, to make room We'll leave you for a few moments, and see if Jean-Claude See you soon. We close the curtain. Leave Lea alone And we will discover if Lea's dad is here with us tonight. Rebecca, can you hear us? I hear you very well. But I am really sorry did not honor us with his presence. So I really wanted to tell him Obviously, who invites him on the set, he is not physically able but that on the other hand If he is not there by your side, but rather because he could not Exactly. If it's the truth since Exactly. Thank you, Rebecca. We know you don't like that moment in the show at all, at all. We're going to open the curtain. I was hoping so much that he would be there. I arrived telling myself I believe in miracles which are very strong, moreover, they are And proof that they didn't succeed because I have also made a lot of progress Once again, a few moments ago. A little before this show Apparently, he was unable to come, Do you know if that made him happy? Apparently, again, he seemed to suspect And he said anyway, So he's probably More explanations with the journalist who took care of You still want to say a word, that he sees the broadcast to the camera above Laurent? Of course I want to do it I might never be able to see him again. So this is the moment This is the first time Needless to say, I missed you these last 25 years, It's the hardest thing a child and a woman. Because it is inevitably reflected I miss you I would love to tell you to have accomplished in my life, it is possible. But the pain I have today, She is huge. So even if I shine, I am very, very, So there are two things I don't blame you at all. You made your choices with your heart, your mind, maybe not Maybe you had some complications, it's that I'm 40 years old, you don't know anything about me. And I want to know everything about you, even trivial things. Your favorite food, Even if you only gave me and you tell me Lea, but I give you 1 hour, I heard and I would really like to see you what tomorrow is made of. And one last message that I wish go to your wife but above all Marie, if you see me, that you were able to put on him. I think that when you have to take it as a whole and the luggage he has with him. Because we find ourselves 20 years later And there are thousands of them in France who suffer greatly So here it is dad, I love you and I hope that after this message, even if it's only an hour or two, over time as it suits you. I love you very much. Thank you Lea for this extremely touching message and extremely constructed We feel that you have thought about all these words for a long time. There's always something happening It is often said, when you are going to leave the set. There are things that bounce back, There are things that germinate, We hope that this message Thank you. You will have more explanations, I think. Good luck. Keep us posted. Thank you very much. Thank you. We will return from There's only the truth that counts, This mother who came to knock on the door from There is only the truth that counts it's been years I haven't been the best mother, I kind of abandoned my children, We found a young woman Certainly one Look. Good evening Annick. How are you? Come this way. Hello Annick. Annick, with Pascal saying bravo to you very strong for you tonight, We have been following your story for weeks Your story touched us. We found your approach very courageous. What are you here for tonight? To tell my daughter Helene and to his sister too, Helen, who is your daughter. Who is my daughter and we have a lot With your two daughters, unspoken things and misunderstandings reign, We will try, if you like, to better understand why in images. We think we have but nothing becomes charming You have children sees in you He only loves his children. He decides to leave you to be able to provide for their needs, Little Helene is eight years old. You find yourself alone. You try to rebuild a life, You start a new family, The heart races and we hear it beating faster and faster as we say to ourselves where is my daughter We would so much like time to turn, allows you to find it. But nothing works. We learn that our daughter has had a child, So we want to fight We are running after time rhymes with now. How long has it been since you last saw him? Two years? And before, you saw her Yes, we will say a little more. What is your relationship Since you haven't seen each other? No. I called her on her birthday and every time we say things to each other And so does she. Who says nasty things? We go back to the past, to many things. Two years ago you saw him again because his son was born, How did it go at that time? They told me I went to visit him For what ? I traveled from far away my son-in-law warned the dad, I didn't have much time. So as not to run into the dad in question. And so We said things to each other. He told me I had not played the role of a mother that I play the role You don't say, You have some responsibility. You are sufficiently lucid and intelligent. Yes, yes, I recognize it's always painful And it's true that I may not have been but I didn't forget them. I always have them in my heart. It's true that sometimes I fall asleep, but hey, it's a dialogue of the deaf. Have you rebuilt your life? Do you have other children? That you see... You asked us to invite Helen It's Rebecca, who went to bring him the invitation. I am in the region of local products and good wines. This is Burgundy. I will immediately give this invitation to Helene, a young mother pregnant Hello, I'm Rebecca from the show Are you Helen? allow me hoping to see you Moved to see her and to see this little son that you have What are you waiting for? What exactly do you expect from her tonight? It's up to her to judge. She knows what it's like It's true that well, we all make mistakes in life, that I didn't like them both. What is your main mistake? Maybe it's because they left their father. I was young. And leaving them with their father. Temporarily, and then, Didn't you miss them? Yes, yes, I still saw them. I would go visit them, Yes, I missed them. If she agreed to come, to Rebecca, if she comes you will really experience it a little bit permanently closed? Yes, for me, yes. Because the last time at the maternity ward, that they didn't want to see me anymore, and I faded away. I didn't attend their wedding Now that it's certain, I may not have played my role as a mother, but I would like to play Try to redeem myself We'll go see. We'll stop the suspense And if so, until you are given the floor. The curtain And we will reestablish the connection Rebecca, can you hear us? I have some very, very good news to tell you. I am with Helen. Are you feeling a little better A little better. You have a lot of questions in your head. Any idea? Oh yes ? So Helen, The truth is at the end of the corridor You come with me. Oh yes, Pascal and Laurent, Why do you want her to come? If you want Rebecca she can give me We're going to walk a bit Because there is Capucine or Arthur Glad to hear it. I will exceptionally release Hello. Thank you. A little stressed. Hello. Camille or ? No, Capucine or Arthur. Capucine or Arthur. No, there's only one. Congratulations in any case. You were accompanied which is a big first Rebecca, she's great. I wanted her to come. He's a good person. You know someone Someone wants to talk to you. Rebecca came to bring you this invitation. Do you have any idea Yes, I have an idea. You hope that's it? Still, yes. Can we know if it's a man A woman. Do you want a first clue, In Is it only the truth that counts? We tell the story to people to put you Yes. Helen, do you think we can Are you No, I'm very resentful. But it's pride. You say I hold a grudge, And on the other hand, if the person explains to me, Yes, I can forgive, why did we do it It's because I was hurt. Yes, it's not free. Second clue? I wanted to know first has put you on the right track a little bit? Did she confirm your suspicions? Not at all. Yes. Helen, future, present, past, It's complicated to ask a pregnant woman this question because it is often the future that interests him the most. Are you also someone Oh yeah, all the time. Yes, I often think about the past. To what you have experienced? Is it important to you? Shall we discover together who invited you? Yes, because I am very curious. So if I came here, it's to Please look at the screen again. In this screen who invited you to the set. I apologize. You recognize your mother. Did you think Yes yes. I wished so. I wouldn't have wanted You didn't want A few difficult years? Adult stories And then a mother who officially, Yes, but hey, she has her reasons. She is suffocating because she is not happy with what she is experiencing. Me neither. Do you want to listen to it? It's up to you. Thank you for coming. I wanted to tell you you and your sister. And I know that the past is the past. There is no turning back. But I want you to know and I would like the hatred I'm very glad you came. Now it's your turn to... I wanted to tell you that I loved you. I know that for you because you are expecting a baby. I thought of this show to do something. A little bit of the way You know, life is so short. Can I talk? She listens to you. I suspected it was you I suspected, But for me, Thank you. And then I love you too. Despite everything, I have never forgotten you for two years, Me too, I know, about some things. But I don't forget you, on the contrary. Even today, I was crying so I wouldn't see you. Do you see me? Yes, you are beautiful too. You are lovely too. Helen, I'm going to ask you to place yourself here, facing this curtain. Oh, sorry! It's in a few seconds. Pascal He'll do it very quickly. You're in a hurry to find Annick, Annick came to tell you that this wall should no longer be between you. This curtain had to be opened. Yes. Without further ado. Are you doing well ! We are sorry. Don't be sorry. You are sorry, You are very beautiful. It's hard to understand Why didn't you see each other Earlier, I would never have thought Sometimes, only the truth matters, to tell each other things. And the phone is difficult. That's why I knew you could do it. Lots of happiness to both of you, you will find. We kiss him. We'll let you go. Goodbye Helen. See you soon. Helene who had found her mother You saw it in the invitation, a little boy, you saw it, That's what family is in We have Helene who is with us this evening We also have the baby facing us at the time, but who has grown a little. Helen, ladies and gentlemen. Are you okay? Sit down. Hello, miss. Good morning. Helen and Blanche. We see you again 20 years later. You were like that. Like this. Unbelievable. How long after was she born? Not long after. You were already very pregnant. Yes, I had written to Rebecca It wasn't long after that. We are very, very happy You haven't changed. The same. That's right. As a young girl I guess you saw and your grandmother. We heard about this story It's true that it's a story She marked your family history? Because we have a very close relationship It shows. So Helen. You looked very emotional I was hoping for a real reunion. Except that's not always the case What happened We still write to each other. She still writes to me. She's fine. After that, I don't know. Afterwards, I know she writes to me. I create bonds We have real moments of exchange that I don't have with her You never succeeded, despite your pleasure in seeing her Afterwards, I don't know, Afterwards, you have to put things in place Writing is good, that's for sure, we must have In summary, you tell us you found her, you see her from time to time. I don't see her anymore. Is it just writing? Don't you miss it? I had a lot of extremely difficult trials after, whose disease. In life, there are priorities. And she could have come too. Afterwards, that's what I say, This is what we are putting in place. Afterwards, we also have our own lives, to fight, to manage efforts and to prove that we are there. We can't say it often enough There are some very beautiful things There are also some very good intentions that are stated. But that was a nice gesture, It's not a magic wand things need to be put in place. These good intentions must be followed of coherent actions and behaviors. This character called the Curtain is symbolic on this set. It is often closed in life. We do everything to make it open Some open the curtain others, whose curtain remains closed, finally new relationships Trials, Beyond these relationships which have not really happened, finally, it's life, made real. What did it bring you To still have this declaration of love from this mother, even if she didn't know She came to tell you I love you. Did it change No. It hasn't changed. I know she loves me and I love him too. But we didn't create things together and the bonds are stronger with whom I shared things My mom, I don't know her well, Your grandmother, don't you miss her? I couldn't say I miss her because I've never seen him much. What really upset me was seeing Are you happy today? What are you doing? A beautiful job. You are quite right, And you? I had created two beauty institutes, recently and I took up more aesthetic. Everything is fine then. And there, how is your health? Well, I'm proud to say it It's important to say it to testify It's not easy. It's worth fighting for and determination and courage. We can do it. With the kids behind, This is a good reason to fight too. Absolutely. It's a good support. Thanks to both of you anyway, to your beautiful eyes, your beautiful mind. You are still the same. And you, we didn't know you. We could be your uncles. A bit like the godfathers. Thank you both for being there. See you soon. Lots of good things. We're going back that way. Lots of good things to you. Ah, what a beautiful moment! It's already the end. But we will meet again, obviously, Same day, same time, same channel with you. Thank you for being there, thank you for being faithful. And we will also have, of course, Rebecca and Sam with us. We're going to find Rebecca and Sam. Yes, good evening. Still as beautiful. How proud we are But you can't say otherwise. It changes us. You don't tell people that you work you never say that. Always. When I give invitations, because there are very beautiful people who are Laurent Fontaine I remember. We will say goodbye to our viewers that they can come here when they want, Reunions. Our team is at your disposal. The coordinates are displayed We love you, you are amazing. We love you. See you next week.