The Berserker Hypothesis and the Dark One of the most essential mysteries of the to solve is whether life exists anywhere Scientists have tried to answer this answer. There could be life out there, but if If life is something normal in the universe, planets full of life like Earth? signals from other civilizations? life is something extraordinary and in the entire universe is found on Earth? in the entire universe? Since we began exploring the solar system and have asked themselves: Is there life out there? of places where life could exist is immeasurable, planet where living beings exist. exclusive to Earth, but when we some essential questions arise, such as: What is unique about Earth? a world like no other, with unique characteristics we discovered that the stars are solar systems planets, this belief stopped making sense. discovered more than 5,000 exoplanets in our which share many characteristics with our planet. that the Milky Way could host up That is to say; if we talk about unique things, our galaxy; it is illogical to think that all have also occurred on some other planet in some Statistics favor logic; everything tells us planet like Earth out there is very high. same problem: every living being that inhabits enormous whale, is made up of practically Oxygen, and Nitrogen are the four most More than 96% of one adult human are made of 10% Hydrogen, 3% Nitrogen, and the other 4% phosphorus, and sulfur. formed in the final stages during the death that form planets rich in these elements. complex, or unique materials. The ingredients to anywhere in the universe and are extremely common. hundreds of thousands of Earth-like planets where So... If life is something that does not why isn't the universe full of living beings? that there is no life outside Earth? and the grand filter theory. the apparent contradiction between estimates that civilizations exist in the known universe and The great filter prevents life from emerging civilization like ours. This idea suggests that in something suddenly stops the development of said For example, human civilization has existed in the but the most significant scientific and in the last 100 years. the technology that we have managed to develop to the nuclear arsenal in the world is If this is the great filter that great that humanity is close to exterminating itself This would also indicate that we have not found like us because the same thing happens to them, how to create atomic bombs, and they fail to self-destructing in a senseless nuclear war. human race became extinct due to a nuclear there was no way we would be able to Throughout history, our planet has gone through nuclear war. Even a species as violent as since in the darkest corners of the caves bacteria and other microorganisms that of years would survive, resisting everything. survive any nuclear war. It may take hundreds or humans destroy everything. As the years go by, New life forms would populate the world again, Some of these new species may develop great Life seems to be something very resilient that and that cannot be exterminated so easily. no matter what we do; the only thing that can of fuel and dies, life on Earth will too. a meteorite falls or a race of intelligent apes life will always re-emerge among the ashes, and it Suppose this scenario is similar to other it means that if life also emerged on another from Earth, these life forms are still even evolved to such a degree that they are also For years, scientists asked and thanks to this, we arrived at different The dark forest that there are many alien civilizations throughout This is explained so that any spacefaring life as an inevitable threat and destroy any In other words, if a civilization is aware of it will believe that the rest of the civilizations is best not to contact them since they could enter As a result, all civilizations would eventually would be relatively silent, with no evidence as in a &quot;dark forest&quot; full of &quot;armed a ghost&quot; observing without being observed. for signatures of life throughout the universe, we ones looking, and no one emits detectable signals. video so that we can improve Plus, Don't forget to subscribe to our channel by don't miss ANY of our daily videos! In the context of extraterrestrial civilizations, Ships,&quot; also known as Self-replicating Spacecraft. is characterized by being a spacecraft that to create more copies of itself, imitating that would be able to make pre-determined celestial body with valuable materials, begin mining it to create more copies. to the reproduction pattern of bacteria, Neumann machines could be considered a In his short story Lungfish, David Brin touches machines launched by different species could Given a sufficient variety of species, they could some form of artificial intelligence, a society. of generations, slightly changing the objectives There are many variants of self-replicating today is the Berserker ships. variant of the Von Neuman probes programmed and exoplanets capable of supporting life The Beerserker hypothesis arises as a response humans have not yet detected intelligent it is because it has been systematically destroyed probes that were created by an extraterrestrial purpose of exterminating all traces of life they have wiped out life on that planet. astronomer David Brin summarized the terrifying saying that it is fully compatible with all the it would mean that no life left Intelligent responsible for exterminating all life forms in humanity has already alerted these ships of our Something interesting about these types created them probably no longer exists. replicating themselves, exterminating causing terror even when their creators Beerserker probes exist ? that a berserker probe has not yet visited Earth's and Stuart Armstrong at the Future of Humanity that if a small fleet of Berserker probes were very slowly, they would most likely have all traces of life millions of years ago. assume even a moderate rate of replication Self-Replicating space probes should already found them by now. But because we have not intelligence does not exist and that we are Another answer to the Fermi paradox is is the first species to have this degree of that case, no matter how much we look for other since they still do not have telecommunications If this is the case, we will have to wait to detect the first signs of another But in the end, the last answer Fermi Paradox: The Rare Earth hypothesis Basically, according to this hypothesis, life and of astrophysical and geological conditions that words, we are quite special and unique. we would be in a real messy situation. prevalence of intelligent life in our universe For isotropy, we mean that the universe is the You can understand isotropy thinking of this sphere, and you point towards All of this It's also consistent with that if something is randomly-sampled, it is If we translate this in the the Copernican principle is telling us that We need such an assumption, we need the universe wasn't isotropic it would be very make quantitative studies of the objects we We need it to set up our mathematical If the Copernican principle doesn't hold, then and is in a class reserved for very few planets. Given the fact that we haven't found any in the Universe yet, wouldn't this The Rare Earth argument is The first one is that microbial The second one, states that advanced If we combine these two hypotheses, we understand of events and circumstances that are quite This argument was in response to the inherent the Drake Equation which essentially asserts For example, Ward and Brownlee, authors of (show quote) the Drake Equation includes hidden assumptions assumes that once life originates on a planet, it on many planets in the development of culture. They also say life originated here about single-celled organisms to multicellular climaxing in animals and higher plants. And of life--one of increasing complexity to an result of evolution or even a common one. Mathematically, the Drake equation can be (show equation) N is the number of civilizations in our galaxy, fp is the fraction of stars that have planets, ne fl is the number that will develop life, fi is fc is the number advanced civilizations, and L is have to transmit their signals into space. of civilizations in our galaxy. Of course, the more precise are our constraints on the factors. are between 250 and 500 billion stars at a rate of about three Solar masses per year. the past few decades has also allowed astronomers planets, and the number of planets that are likely a study conducted in 2013 estimated that there orbiting in the habitable zones of their stars, 11 Nevertheless, there is still a great deal of when it comes to the emergence of life, the rate and everything that follows. were sceptical about Drake's theory. of the equation in their book. (show equation) N = N* X *Here, N* is the number of stars in the Milky Way, ne is the average number of planets in a star's fp is the fraction of stars in the Milky Way with fi is the fraction of habitable fc is the fraction of planets where complex life that we have to take into account if we want a account the extinction events that could happen Like the Drake equation factors, these are but using Earth as a template and employing how it would be difficult to find planets Ward and Brownlee also listed other and are believed to have contributed For example, there's the presence fundamental to climate stability here on Earth. And they also cited geological evidence that Earth was very cold and covered in ice. This is These epochs occurred roughly 2.2 billion and with key developments in terrestrial life. the Cambrian Explosion (ca. 570 and 530 million species diversification and the appearance of In other words, key events in appear to have followed a Snowball Earth period. Could Earth be an extraterrestrial zoo? North Sentinel Island is a place where a tribe than 60 thousand years ago and who are currently But... Just as we study the inhabitants of would it be possible that an advanced than us could be studying the human North Sentinel Island the Bay of Bengal in the Indian Ocean. This island belongs to India. What makes North Sentinel Island tribe known as the Sentinelese, who have lived in outside world for approximately 60 thousand years. administrative district of South Andaman, Andaman and Nicobar Islands. Still, the desire to live without contact with the world. who manage their affairs internally. a de facto sovereign entity under themselves are unaware of the existence of Given that the Sentinelese do not, in practice, relations with anyone outside the island, these than real since the island's inhabitants Sentinelese tribe is known for their hostility any form of outside contact. They have rejected and Indian authorities on numerous occasions. of voluntary isolation and protection of the them from possible diseases that could devastate to common diseases such as flu or measles. Island and the established isolation policy, the and mysterious places. Access to the island have implemented an exclusion zone to protect Why has it been decided to leave this tribe alone? inhabitants alone because any contact with modern anyone who tries to approach them. various encounters with the inhabitants 1880: The British ship &quot; Rifleman and the ship's captain left gifts on the beach were seen breaking up and squashing the gifts, 1896: The British government sent an expedition contact with the Sentinelese. The expedition capture of several Sentinelese, who were taken the captured Sentinelese soon fell ill, and it was 1970: During the 1970s, Indian authorities made to gain the friendship of the tribe. They were search of adventure. On one of these expeditions, but later, the Sentinelese hunted the pigs with indicating that the gifts were not accepted. The teams tried to land in places out of reach bananas, and pieces of iron. Sometimes, the Other times, they would take the gifts at the group, trying to establish contact. a breakthrough. When the researchers arrived to bring them gifts, and then, for the first They even got into the water and approached this friendly contact did not last long. Although the encounters were not always friendly. at the group, trying to make contact, and on one adzes (stone axes for cutting wood). No one resumed their hostility toward contact missions. after the first approach, some Sentinelese fell causing the Islanders to distrust the gifts In 1996, regular gift-giving missions were the logic of trying to contact people who are independently for more than 55,000 years. Friendly and prolonged contact with the Sentinelese would In subsequent years, only occasional visits made two visits to verify, from a distance, not suffered in any way from the ravages of the continued because when he flew over the island by inhabitants. India then declared that it would North Sentinel Island and its inhabitants, rest of civilization, do not want or need even though they don't want to know anything A human zoo? some curious people wonder where those men on those boats that can cross the ocean. but it is known that they can manipulate it. can feed it and maintain it for long periods, but Perhaps after many years since the the youngest members of the island occasionally hundreds or thousands of kilometers away in small spaces to illuminate us at night. on the island, and most of them contained used to make the tips of their arrows harder. we have made great efforts to keep the members of we have indirectly provided them in everyday situations, they would never have. and then began to produce metal from much more taking that path in reverse, having metal at We have unintentionally changed how they continue curious members of the island may occasionally are surprised that every so often, a train of and every day they also manage to observe move quickly in seemingly random directions. are not stars but creations of humanity, technologies they cannot even imagine. with artificial satellites or observe it with have technology to listen to what is happening on In this sense, could we say that the Although it sounds somewhat cruel, seen from a zoos are places where a specific species is kept possible not to interrupt its natural behavior, The Sentinelese are humans isolated on an island who enters and who leaves; we can observe them the time. Furthermore, they do not know that So the question is... Would it be possible that, realizing it, an extraterrestrial race could do It may sound wild, but let's remember that we do not understand; our technology does not on each planet of each star in the entire galaxy. is a type 2 alien civilization on the Kardashiev a type 3 civilization and has designated the Earth In this case, this civilization would have huge zoo made up of thousands of stars. All would be part of that enormous zoo, which civilization with technology to observe As well as in North Sentinel Island, but at the same time, they are part of a we could be inside that enormous A sufficiently advanced civilization could solar system and precisely what happens on our and we would not be able to notice since they do and study us without interrupting our evolution If the Earth were a zoo, then we would be like studied, and possibly even protected by that want to come into contact with us for our safety. could decimate the population an extraterrestrial race would have diseases Alien Police Scenario of the Fermi Paradox Predicting what technology will be like is a game of educated guesswork. For no one could have foreseen that a century later, the ability to end civilization would exist. a prediction. On the other side, the notion of to the efforts of Jules Verne, who published From humanity would travel to the moon someday, but barely over a century later. Because we have it is possible that we still have a long way to we can predict, such as Dyson swarms, and those of technology. Entire hypothetical technologies, remain mostly unexplored by humans. We've idea where we're going. And then there are we don't even know the science for yet. We still from us. Huge gaps exist in our understanding of that general relativity and quantum mechanics do This tells us that there are missing pieces We have some puzzle pieces, but we This might imply that there are really we have not yet imagined. While travelling the nuclear bomb was not. That requires a trip The World Set Free. So the concept of nuclear war, emerged seemingly out of nowhere and But, thus far, we've only done things Is it possible that there are technologies destroy entire galaxies, if not the entire lot of theories have been made in regards to example is the paper clip maker, in which someone to produce paper clips, and it escapes and paperclips. Another example would no limit on reproduction that actually consume the Another type of cosmic danger would be generalized choose to eliminate all biology, enslave it, or the mysteries of the cosmos itself. As I said in its lowest potential energy state, and if it ever light, destroying all matter in the universe comprehensive enough understanding of physics, for off? The answer is probably no, but it's in such a out just yet. This creates a dilemma. How do you if it is capable of doing so? This brings us to This is sort of a variant of the zoo hypothesis, realize such far-reaching hazards are feasible, and anybody coming into contact with these or be forcibly stopped. Consider it this way: scenery. You'll see police cars patrolling the breaking the law, they won't pay any attention to if you were taking your neighbor's BBQ and your neighbor yelled for the cops, the cops This might be how different galaxies might work. inhabited advancement of growing civilizations. until they notice you doing something or reaching involvement for the sake of the whole galaxy's may be of secondary importance. If you choose to that is not the galaxy's concern, and you are free you will be stopped. It's fun to imagine what look like. To inspire the phrase &quot;good policeman, investigations from various civilizations, who gets to you first. Alternatively, if the first stop and desist order is disregarded, the second you'll be exterminated by a hostile alien all-powerful probe launched by all civilizations standards. It might easily destroy or downshift possibilities that can be possible. Does it seem Another possibility is that, If the offending a conflict on a planet, the probe may act as a entirely, and then adopt a trust but verify there is always a death probe sitting in their it from a different angle. Aside from technical another purpose. It might also serve as a kind to be considerably more powerful than anything can prevent you from creating weapons to match it The question then becomes, are those weapons consider what it is protecting you against. These since they imply the existence of something from it. The probe becomes a sentinel, waiting at which point it will spring to life to protect throughout the period the probe has been around, and the armed probe's creators are long gone, and may be more than a match for the enemy. Consider and understanding the perils and rewards of Imagine they've seen it all, battled other and eventually become the galaxy's police force. life, with one overlord civilisation developing matters, but in interplanetary affairs. communication between planets is handled by this this scenario is that we may be in it without even Another possibility is an idea about von Neumann, can be applied here for a police probe. A probe Us. It could do it passively, say, from anywhere from the moon's surface. If it was suitably equipment smaller than the greatest resolution of merely waiting for us to violate galactic deliberately monitoring us far more closely, and Such a probe may create atmospheric probes to see closely, or it could conduct thorough scientific frequently stated that humans would be like ants be interested in us. But the truth is that we're there are scientists on Earth that specialize knowledge about them. Ants are fascinating, educational and recreational purposes. However, where they are not wanted, such as the kitchen. If the ants must leave. As a result, even if we technical level, they may be quite interested phenomenon or UAP comes into play. The most likely UAP phenomena is the concept of a probe sitting smaller atmospheric probes. Now a point to note and there might be multiple explanations for the rest of time, but at least there are figure out what's going on. However, there is a presence here. The question of whether or if that's the case, what if their motive Zombie Apocalypse - Fighting for Welcome to a journey beyond the stars. Today, we dive into the speculative realms of yet intriguing idea that may shed light on one Now, you might be wondering, why zombies? Well, the origin of zombies is often shrouded in science. But what if we were to explore some find a plausible way for the dead to rise, Could this eerie concept of a Zombie Let's embark on this journey and zombies. No longer mere products of we shall envision them as biological === In the not-so-distant future, the mastery unlocking a Pandora's box of profound humanity. Picture a world where one can dive navigating down to the cellular level At this infinitesimally small scale, the thoughts and feelings becomes not just In the wake of this technological leap, the more insidious form. A dystopian scenario unfolds worse yet, a despotic monarch, seizes control of No longer is it a matter of external an invasion at the very core of our consciousness. The consequences are dire. Minds become rendering the concept of freedom of the realm of propaganda; it's an intimate The term &quot;zombie&quot; takes on a new undead sense, but in the sense of beings their autonomy stripped away This nightmarish scenario threatens the very to think, feel, and act autonomously. The once literal destruction, as our zombie minds are their will, all orchestrated by an unseen Yet, the grim reality remains in the realm of such a dystopian future. However, the warning and the ethical boundaries of what we can achieve future, the line between science fiction and of a world where humanity becomes mere characters responsibility that comes with unlocking the === In light of these considerations, it is a profound to think with our brains and act upon our thoughts creatures. Take, for instance, the bear. ranking among the most intelligent beings on such as caring for their offspring and even when they open closed jars to access the honey like a hidden camera capturing their presence, comprehend the purpose of the foreign object. is that, despite their intelligence and operate primarily on instinct. Drawing a is hungry, it will instinctively pursue we humans share a fundamental similarity Now, envision a scenario where bears could be control could suppress their natural instincts, humans. However, a malevolent influence could for human flesh into the sole purpose of these manipulated bears would cease to mere puppets - or zombies - manipulated Indeed, even though the scenario of unlikely in our current reality, contemplating ethical and philosophical challenges that might Furthermore, as we gaze into the vast cosmos, it's intriguing to ponder the possibility already traversed the threshold of technological are not only possible but perhaps a part of their the dreams of extraterrestrial civilizations, might have transformed into a haunting reality. envisioned are no longer the architects of their manipulated by the whims of a tyrannical rich tapestry of their civilization, with its has been erased, leaving only the oppressive will However, the situation could escalate further. is under the command of a centralized mind that In this scenario, the extraterrestrial beings consciousness, residing somewhere unknown in these cyborg zombies would be deployed on potentially with the sinister objectives life forms and gathering and === Both the conventional zombie hypothesis could potentially exist yet our encounters with them remain elusive. takes center stage, demanding an answer to Now, let's delve into a cosmic thought that the universe is in a state of expansion, the course of billions of years, the gaps the cosmos unrecognizable from its current form. transformations. Collisions will give rise to anticipated in the impending collision between fast-forward the cosmic clock, the universe will demise of the youngest, largest, and blue-hued rate. Galaxies will predominantly be tinted red, In the quest for sustenance, resources become than ideal for sustainable life, advanced travel, embark on a mission to conquer other zombie hypotheses were to materialize, we might traversing galaxies to plunder resources from seemingly silent and tranquil universe we In a twist that amplifies the eeriness, an civilizations could lead to the unsettling &quot;early&quot; civilization. What does this imply? of life, but it's acknowledged that, at a certain occurred, giving rise to prokaryotes on Earth. transformed our planet. While the process leading billion years, what if this timespan varies on life forms, patiently awaiting the emergence of this scenario, we could be contenders for one of We could find ourselves akin to zombies, contending with emerging civilizations unable to flourish and explore the cosmos, Alternatively, we might have become teeming with civilizations that bear little acknowledge that the universe was and the inevitable fate of every entity, Conceivably, our planet might have left tumultuous fury of the Sun as it reached we might have devised ingenious methods to leave testament born out of human endeavor to Unlocking the Cosmos: Fire Could be At the very core of human civilization lies fire. Its significance extends far beyond fire has been instrumental in everything enabled us to adapt to colder climates, build societies. From the earliest blacksmiths the industrial revolution, fire has been the do we truly comprehend its full potential? extraterrestrial life? The ability to harness fire environmental and biological conditions that The discovery of fire was a game changer something like oxygen. Oxygen is not just Earth's atmosphere reached its current oxygen-rich primarily by plants and algae. This process development. Oxygen supports combustion, which food to smelting metals. However, the presence If extraterrestrial environments lack similar limiting potential technological advancements. may be a critical factor in the Fermi Paradox, a of stars and potential for life in the universe, civilizations. It suggests that the conditions by extension, advanced technology, might The Carboniferous period, a crucial era for fire levels of oxygen--up to 35%, compared to today's and large-scale wildfires, profoundly influencing dense forests of the period provided ample fuel, particularly prone to combustion. This period much oxygen could lead to destructive wildfires, complex ecosystems were laid. Such conditions Earth-like fire-dependent technological evolution history highlight the unique conditions that have underscore the potential rarity of such conditions reason behind the Fermi Paradox, suggesting thus developing technology that could signal their The impact of fire on our technological progress is nothing short of profound. It's fire enabled early human societies to ways. By harnessing fire, our ancestors could fundamentally altering ecosystems to better suit smelt metal transformed societies, leading to the machinery. This mastery of fire accelerated laying the groundwork for modern technology. powered by steam engines that relied heavily on fire is not merely a tool but a foundational as we know it. Its role in our history is But what about exoplanets covered with oceans? absence of fire? Considering life on water-covered barriers to technological advancement. In aquatic such as the sophisticated but arm-limited the mastery of fire remains unachievable. Water the accumulation of sufficient heat, which restricts the ability to process materials from simple tool use to complex machinery. might develop along entirely different lines, forms of technology that don't rely on heat and evolution once again highlights how pivotal fire fire could lead to a very different path of Considering all these factors, the &quot;rare fire harness fire are so specific and rare that very while the universe might be teeming with life, of making themselves known across the This concept suggests that the ability to tied to specific environmental and biological development of advanced civilizations. If the and, by extension, advanced technology, it could explain why we haven't yet seen So Fire, as a critical milestone maybe more unique to Earth than previously the Fermi Paradox. The rarity of fire hinges have sufficient oxygen, which itself depends on it must have flammable materials, which are and environmental conditions that allow fire These conditions are so specific that making Earth an extraordinary exception rather do not align, the development of technology as and metallurgy--could be severely limited or not produce detectable signals like radio waves or Thus, fire's rarity could fundamentally advanced civilizations capable of making offering a solution to why we find ourselves universe and its billions of stars and planets. search strategies and assumptions about what So, fire and the mere discovery of fire could be of civilisations. However, let's not limit our potentially evolve using alternative energy challenge remains whether such alternatives civilization capable of space exploration or for instance, exploits planetary heat and could worlds. Tidal power harnesses the kinetic energy Solar technology might involve ultra-efficient mimicking or enhancing natural processes to biochemical processes could lead to organisms convert organic materials electromagnetic energy from natural planetary suggesting that civilizations might exploit these energy source could lead to distinct technological by our current methods, emphasizing the diversity It would then follow that SETI and other pressure to reconsider their game. We should traditional signs and markers of technology. markers of civilization or, better still, for the development of new sensors and instruments example, sensing weird electromagnetic patterns atmospheres. Reformulating our frameworks from radically different technological paradigms, discovery. All of this broadens the search find a civilization with characteristics Viruses Could be &quot;The Great Filter&quot; and Great Filter Theory Filter Hypothesis&quot; is a proposal by researcher who proposed that, in the development of life reaching the highest levels of technological detectable extraterrestrial life extremely rare. This hypothesis would tell us that the number of civilizations that develop to This threshold of probability, which could have could function as a barrier to the evolution of intelligent life or as a high The main takeaway from this argument is that the stage humanity is at today would mean that face in the future and what will end This would mean that all species that manage self-destructing, which is why we haven't that degree of technological advancement, and human civilization could be next. Although many scientists suspect that many others conjecture that this hypothetical How could this be? consider everything that life has gone through that life on Earth could have emerged about 4 This tells us that once all the conditions it does not take long for it to appear. then it would be subject to how long a but if life actually appears very soon after a In other words, the great filter would have to perhaps in something that caused life The answer could lie in viruses, no less. practically everywhere; there is the virus of different characteristics, but if there is one they share many similarities with living beings, they lack other vital characteristics, such as independent cellular functions, that is why most But... If viruses are not living They are what they are: viruses, organisms They attack living organisms, feed on of the DNA strands of living beings, but It seems that viruses are chemical organisms beings and that, in a way, they are opposed to However, despite the fact that viruses are is to destroy living beings, could it be that of the planet have managed to develop so much? microbes that appeared on the planet would not them or force them to evolve very quickly. But beings had no choice but to evolve very quickly the existence of viruses on Earth could be a In this way, it would be possible that microbial without viruses like those on Earth, these to evolve quickly. Even if they manage to there is no guarantee that they will manage to that they will develop technologies But how possible is it that viruses were the enormous diversity of living beings on the planet? information into living things in ways that could An example of this can be seen in humans, who, in pandemics, now have better defenses against on the planet, it would mean that viruses somehow However, evolution can also benefit from would imply that the absence of viruses should life on other planets. Or should it? A recent study by a group of scientists led of Science investigated a substance in developing human intelligence. lipids necessary to insulate nerve axons. wire but is obviously much more important of nerve cells to be up to 100 times faster. neuronal fibers thinner and longer, allowing be much more efficient in response speed and this protein would react faster to danger, could generally be more intelligent than those without. The scientists in charge of the research a retrovirus infected vertebrates with jaws. In which helped defend against that more complex and faster brains like humans. during the development of the diversity this virus infected different animals, activating world as a kind of convergent evolution. responsible for this was a retrovirus. and are characterized because they can that genetics in their host, passing that This would mean that without this retrovirus, the intelligence and skills that led us to It is interesting how today, many viruses take smallpox, Ebola, or rabies, but if it were not for