Hey there, guys. Paul here from TheEngineeringMindset.com. In this video, we're gonna be and, specifically, we're to calculate the flow rate, the pump RPM, the revolutions per the pump power, and also, Now, if you already have a pump installed in one of your buildings, then you should have that comes like this which is Now, all too often, parts of and that's really frustrating. But if you have some data missing, then we're gonna look at some formulas of how to calculate and also, we'll look to if you were to change Now, of course, if you haven't you're in a design phase, then you can also use what the performance will be. So these formulas will give us the values of the pump performance curve. Now, do remember that these calculations will only give us theoretical values. The actually performance And, you know, certainly, the larger the discrepancy becomes between the theoretical and the actual answer. You might need to add to adjust these. But, for everyday purposes this is fine. So if we jump into the calculations, you can see, first of all, that I've split the screen into two parts, being the metric and imperial, so you can look through the calculations for both of these. I've also tried to color-code so you can follow those all sometimes, it does get a chasing these numbers through. So that should make it So with this calculation, we're gonna find out what if we were to increase or decrease the pump revolutions per minute. And, to do that, we're So we've got the flow is equal to the revolutions multiplied by the division divided by the RPM of the old system. So if we drop the figures in for that, we're can see that, have 57 liters per second. And then, we've got the adjusted These are same. I've done it in the imperial, For the metric, I will just point out that I've used liters per second here. It should really be But, almost always, the pumps are listed in liters per second. And it doesn't particularly The units you use, the units you put in are the units that you're gonna get out. So you can change to or kilograms per second and Just, you know, remain Anyway, if you do the then you'll see that this comes out to 52.6 liters per second, or 833 gallons per minute. So the next one we're gonna look at is the new flow rate, and that would occur if you were to change Now, I will point out that this is, this is an older way to do to actually trim down the It's not the preferred way anymore, and that's because if you, once you trim it down, add that material back on. So you need to replace A much better way is to actually use a variable speed drive or to change the speed of the pump to meet your design criteria. But if you are looking or to even trim the impeller down, then you can use these calculations here. So, for this one, the new flow rate would be equal to the new multiplied by the old flow rate, divided by the diameter And if we drop those figures in, then we're gonna come down to that. You can see it comes to or 833 gallons per minute. Now, the next one we'll the revolutions per minute. So if we were to increase what RPM would we need to achieve that? And we can use this formula So the new RPM, revolutions per minute, equals the old RPM, multiplied divided by the original flow rate. And if we add those figures in there, you can see here that these two units of measurement cancel out, with a ratio or percent. And so, you multiply these out together and that will bring you down to 1,300 RPM. So that is the speed to rotate at in order to So the next one we'll look at is how to calculate the head pressure, and this would occur if you were to increase or decrease of the impeller. And to do that, we can So the head pressure, is equal to the RPM of the new, the new revolutions per minute, squared, multiplied by the old head pressure, divided by the old revolutions Now, pay particular attention to this one and make sure you square both of the RPMs. All too often, people forget they just come out horrifically, and it's very embarrassing. So, obviously, make sure You'll also notice here that I've written these numbers out in full. Really, you should put But I've just put these out so what the numbers are and how we get to this final figure here. But if you're doing this for work or in an exam, et cetera, then Then, if we drop the numbers in and work our way through these, then, we'll come down through all the way until we get which would be 364 kPa, The next one we'll look and that will be how to calculate this should you increase or And we can use this equation here, this formula here, to calculate that. So the new head pressure is multiplied by the division divided by the old flow rate, and make sure you square from this division, as well. So if we drop some of and we can see how this plays out. Also remember, like I and then, square this number and then, you get to your final number, which is just a ratio or percent. And drop these in, multiple them out, and you'll see, you come to 364 kPa, or 122 feet of water. So the next one we'll and that will be how to would be should you increase or decrease the revolutions per minute of the pump, or from the motor. And, to do that, we can So the power, the new the new revolutions per minute cubed, multiplied by the divided by the RPM, the of the old cubed there, as well. So if we drop the figure then you'll see, this Again, I haven't written You should do it, for an exam and you're make sure to put it in standard form. But I've just written just to make it very clear and how we get to these final figures. So you can see, if you were remember to cube these numbers, as well. Obviously, that's why they are so long. Make sure you do these as the first step, otherwise, you might lose it, and then, you'll mess up So don't fall into that trap. So be careful of this. And you'll see, it comes down from 45 kilowatts. And, on the imperial from 60.35 horsepower, And then, last one we're gonna look at is the impeller diameter. So if you were to adjust the flow rate and you wanted to achieve what diameter impeller would you need? And this is usually used in the case where the impeller is being trimmed down to meet a new flow rate. And so, that's what I've done in the calculations here, as well. You can see that, originally, it was 57 liters per second, or 903.5 gallons per minute. And the new flow rate on the metric side is or 833.7 gallons per minute. So if we were to drop those numbers in and start doing the calculations, you'll see that these two units of measurement canceled a ratio or percent. And, if we multiply that then we will come down of 184.65 millimeters diameter, or 7.26 inches. So that is it for this video. Thank you very much for watching. I hope this has helped. If you have any questions, please leave them in the Don't forget to like, and also, check out our website, TheEngineeringMindset.com. Once again, thank you