Hello friends, today we are going Code beyond the simple themes you can let me show you a simple overview. As you can see, there are many areas we can removing these buttons and make the overall the appearance of the command dialog as well Additionally, we'll update the graphics our code editor to your liking. this is what the final version will look like the sidebar is much more minimal and the The title bar is also very minimalistic, showing the buttons that I personally don't use. The looking like this, now with a blurred background. The tooltip design will also be updated. You'll a shadow, and a background gradient. And even shows the VS Code icon, will be changed to a new As you can see, I have added my own graphics let's get started. For me, the default It has many user interface elements I rely on keyboard shortcuts, which or navigating with a mouse or trackpad. So user interface of VS Code, and the first Currently, I'm using the React theme, Most of you already know how to install too much detail about that. After the The color scheme of our code base let's hide the activity panel on the left I use keyboard shortcuts, as I said, and work with git in the terminal, so it makes UI. To hide the activity panel, we can go Under the activity bar position, click hidden. And now the activity Now let's hide the status bar at the bottom. and uncheck the status bar option or the Next, let's hide the minimap on the quite annoying and just occupies extra space let's go to the settings panel in Then, just uncheck this option, close the settings Next, let's improve the appearance The first thing we'll do is move it to the right. If you don't prefer having the file to follow this step. Otherwise, in my case, go to the view menu, then appearance, and select Next, we will modify our settings.json file. I'll unnecessary distractions. I'll paste the values explain each one individually, but I will link the The values I'm pasting here are to simplify the So, for example, you might see a light bulb which I don't use much. There are also other outlines around our open and closing parentheses And I will also remove the line numbers to will see descriptions of what each setting a tooltip appears describing what For example, this one determines if we want to off line numbering, and so on. I'll paste or simplify the user interface elements in VS If you don't prefer them, feel free to not want to set. However, for the purpose of this personally apply in VS Code. Next, we'll We'll improve the look of the sidebar match our code in font. This is where as these customizations cannot be achieved by because themes usually only change achieve this, we need to install a new So, when you search for this extension, you'll so it's a popular extension. This extension that we can't typically be changed by simply so to define custom CSS and scripts to we will add a new option to our settings file. You can find this information in the extension. So here, you can add custom the reason we can define custom styles and scripts It's built using HTML, CSS, and JavaScript, so you didn't know, go to the help menu in VS Code, am pretty sure you are familiar with this window, So, let's place this window side by side, so we hover over an element in the developer tools, it this here wraps all the elements Almost every aspect of the VS Code user interface earlier. So, if we explore this DOM tree in elements here. When I hover over them, you'll So now, to inspect the user we need to click the inspect element button here first click the title bar of VS Code we're going to explore the different user In the tooltip, you'll see which HTML element single aspect or element of VS Code can be You can inspect the elements in the and even the icons. So here, for example, tag with a class of mtk3. This is what we'll So, to do this, we'll declare a CSS file where we CSS file and save it in a directory of your choice I'll save it in my home directory and name we'll identify and define all the styles we want So, again, let's inspect the comment element, the title bar of VS Code to activate the window. click it, the specific element controlling our So, here it is, the element with the class mtk3. just like any HTML element. So, for example, the important attribute to ensure it overwrites Now, let's go back to our settings file, and specify the location of the CSS file you or Linux, you must provide the absolute path we need to enable the custom CSS Open the command dialog, search for enable VS Code will ask to restart to apply and now you should see that So, basically, that's just how you can customize make our customizations to make this look the I have already written the CSS So, I will simply paste the styles here one I will link all the settings that I use if this style right here will modify the top This part. Unfortunately, there is no hot reload the custom CSS and JS extension to Open the command dialog, and search for let's modify the styles of the sidebar. Let's If I inspect the element here, you sidebar is part and sidebar. So, I created to preview the changes, let's reload Okay, as you can see, the sidebar now has a subtle here to change the look of our sidebar. Of course, and you already know how to inspect the different Okay, I'll reload the extension the sidebar has a different look. It now has a different font, and the font color title at the top has changed. The font is a little If we check the CSS style to do this, here's the sticky scroll feature here, as I don't like it. I'll head over to the settings this is probably the settings Next, let's make the scroll bar thinner. I since I never grab it with a mouse to the trackpad for that, so I don't I could simply hide the scroll bar if I wanted to, so that it's still visible and gives me here's the style of the scroll bar. Reload which, for me, makes the UI more minimal. I will close the developer tools now, and the elements you want to customize. Next, Here's the default design of the tooltip, so Here's the style definition. Reload the extension, and here's the new look of the tooltip. Let's make it cleaner. I don't use any of the let's hide most of the elements except I'll paste the styles I defined for the buttons and other elements are gone open file. Let's fix the alignment for this Let's open the developer tools and the class name for the element let's define the style for it. Set Great, it's now further to the left. Next, let's command dialog has looked since VS Code launched First, I'll change the look of the text input. Okay, as you can see, the text input is now the font we use throughout the editor. Next, of the window instead of having it pinned at the reload again, and now look, it's centered on Now, let's fix the background of the item list reload, and now look at the brand new it looks much more interesting Next, let's add a blurred background for the dialog, all the elements behind it, including we'll need to add a custom JavaScript to file, I'll define a script here, and of I'll paste the vanilla JavaScript I already made. description if you want to try it yourself. So add a new div behind the command dialog every and make it disappear whenever Let's test this out. Reload, and as you can see, it adds a nice blurred background behind to my knowledge, isn't possible Now, last but not the least, let's change any open files. And yes, this can be customized so we need to embed or convert the You can go to this website, bloggerpilot.com. to CSS code. Let's open the SVG art I Just copy the entire SVG code and then give you the converted version so copy that. Then, go back to Now, the element that holds the SVG graphics we'll paste the CSS code from BloggerPilot. Let's It's quite long, as you can see. At the bottom, add the important attribute to ensure if there are any. Then, change the Also, set the width to 60 percent. Alright, the editor. When we check the home page of VS Code Go back to the CSS file and make paste this style. Here's the class name We'll give it a max-width none. restart VS Code, and when we check, our graphics now occupy 60 percent of the width Okay, so that is how we can deeply customize installing themes. There are many other things define custom behaviors, and customize and JS Loader extension to totally Okay, that's it. I hope you enjoyed I'll link my settings in and you can use them as starting Thank you for watching, guys. See you next time.