There's a country that people are trying to Between 2020 and 2050, it is forecasted that the is going to decrease by a whopping 22.5%. And between 1989 and today, it's already declined from An almost 30% decrease. But why is everyone Well, to go in an adventure in this we've assembled a dream team and see what we can grasp as visitors of this mysterious country of Bulgaria. There was a plot twist on this trip however that only Staffan and I, were aware of. -Bulgaria! -It's a cool spot of Bulgaria There's like a nice truck over there. You mean the plane?! I'm going to cut this Oh! Eric is here. What are the chances? You're supposed to be in New York. This is our friend Eric. He joined us on a lot of he then got into the best Juliard in New York City. And that's where he's been, chasing his dream of becoming an We missed traveling with him and as he had an open he joined us once again on Part of the crew. -You scared me bro. So there's a plot twist to this video So let's go outside Oh, first step in Bulgaria! Wow! My boys, there is a layer Oh no! Are you serious? I knew it. What is going on? Bulgaria is the cheapest Yaay! So for every night we've booked the most and the cheapest And we have a coin... Oh my God! -Wait, wait, let me pray. So Staffan and I are the first team Let's go... Do we reflip everyday? Yeah every day is a new flip. Okay, new flip. We decided to test to make the road trip a We have three nights in the Country, three coin flips for three chances at the most expensive or in whatever City we're in that day. -We pick the eagle side. We picked number Hi, how are you? -Yes. -What's your name? So, we have this challenge here, and we need someone Okay! -Can you be that man to do it? Eagle Yes, yes, thank you, thank you. -This is great. I just flew like 11 hours.. That's the last video I'm in. I took a 2 year break just Oh that's a great f***ing start. All right team!! The first plan of the day is and see if we can make some friends. Until we check and less lovely hotel. It's about the company. Yeah. Oh I forgot my wallet. There's a TV?! on here? That's so bad! I didn't know Adam On our road trip this week we will cross the country all the way across to the coast Along the way we'll be stopping at and end at their fire Festival a tradition where people walk Throughout the trip each team will unfortunately have with Eric and Tommy soon to find out how bad hotels can get in Well so far, Sophia There are people out in the Parks, it looks uh quite communal. Staffan is running over people, almost, everywhere. -Staffan! I think the worst driver -I have ever driven with in my life. It's the country with the by 2050 they're going to Which isn't happening at this pace One in four technically is I was 10 when I started watching Yes Theory... -Oh my God! -We are making a story about... Making a story about your What's your favorite You know The culture and the people they're pretty friendly. The friendliest people in Europe are from Bulgarian. We heard that Bulgaria is the country To be honest I don't have a reasonable explanation about that The weather is way better, it's way cheaper... cheapest country in the EU... I have no idea but it's OK, I mean... more space for us! Is everyone in Bulgaria extremely friendly? They are so friendly! So far Bulgaria is amazing. -It's incredible! Guys like I don't know what people are leaving. It's the cheapest country The weather is beautiful. We Came From Paris where You live in New York, it's like one of the top five most I moving here tonight! Also... You have a dog and a fiance?! Whatever! As we kept exploring and looking we think we hit the jackpot with -Nice to meet you I'm Thomas. Gergana! That's a cool name Gergana. What is the best with Bulgaria What's something you... You are free. There is no other place in the world you have that freedom In Bulgaria, I can enjoy the theater, the Opera, the music and all that in the very low prices. and what were you what did you say? We are singing tomorrow. I'm a singer, I'm an opera singer. -What?! Saturday and Sundays I'm You will enjoy if you came tomorrow. Yeah, where did you get this and saying yes to life and... I don't know because or maybe because I'm from Burgas and uh we have a lot of connection with other countries you know. -Do you remember that time? yes I remember, yeah. -Was it different? It was not bad, it was Bulgaria's communist they were Allied to the Soviets but they were never a Communist rule, took over And the monarchy was abolished. The government implemented large and pushed for rapid industrialization. But the early years were also which included purging of Despite Improvement in literacy the economy stagnated in the 1980s. Which eventually led and the eventual fall of The transition has been long and difficult marked by further economic These Decades of seem to explain why people are Despite that, our first impressions We were going to go eat. Ah, let's go! -Is this good or no? Okay F*** carabar! I will show you a very good Wait, I don't think we could have met Yes, I'm the best. And just like that, this spontaneous took us under her wing and Look at how they serve the bread! It's a performance! Gregana you are spoiling us with love! I'm mother, I'm mother! How did this happen? I don't know. You're seeing this too, right? What the hell! Oh my God! What is happening? That's a real horse! What is happening? Did we find the most fun mom in Bulgaria? Please call me! You are the life of the party! Yeah yeah I'm always like that! And just like that she vanishes! She just leaves! That's unbelievable! Time to go check in to our hotel! -Jackpots! After a lovely dinner however it was time for us to part ways. Any chance you guys want I vote for it Take it or leave it. No, no, no, I'm okay I'm okay no I'm okay. Let's do a coin flip tomorrow. So, it's start to make sense why we because your place is first of all extreme.... This is so annoying. Read us one of the reviews There are a lot of mentions Dude, no! The rooms are outrageously filthy. Toilet was filthy from probably The walls and couch next to the Dude, this ! We're not going to sleep. But on a serious note... On a serious note Isn't just exploring Bulgaria enough?! Holy s***! None of this looks good. I think it's that green one over there. The one that's like crumbling?! -All right well bye! My God! This place looks haunted, That's the one! This looks like a nightmare! Nightmare, nightmare! Oh we're just on our little honeymoon Just kill me! What the heck! It's the Kebab shop. What is this... I'm like actually kind of scared. -This place is like Crumbling! And walk forward to the reception desk. Hello! Hello ghost! On the right you will see a box -This feels like an escape room! We are stuck for the night. Jesus! There's no AC it's like boiling in here. I'm a very sensitive sleeper I want my mommy I wonder what Thomas's -Oh my! That hotel is insane! I'm a big fan of you -Thank you so much. Welcome! I never stayed at a five star hotel, how do I behave? How do I behave? -Normal! -2705 is yours. There You Go sir. And 2716. The last are very good view! Wait! we have our own rooms! We always share, I You have your own rooms sir. Amazing let's go! Are we staying inside separate No, we will sleep in the same one. Thank god! Dude it's like a horror movie! Oh God! it smells moldy dude! Oh my God! Home sweet home! I'm just scared about cockroaches and we're sleeping in Yeah and this is not Oh my dude oh my gosh! I'm not showering here! I just traveled for 15 hours! I would like to shower! Dude we're above the Kebab shop. Hello! It'll be nice if they don't keep us up at night Oh my god! Let's go! this is just for one of us. Wow! I feel like a king! Wow look atthis -Oh! F*** dude my .... That's acockroach I'm no scientist but cockroaches Oh my God! Oh my God! A second cockroach On the bed, on the wall! Oh god! dude! Someone's been banging -Go look at that. Those are a few dead cockroaches I have this really big fear I'm going to have to sleep like What is that? That's just blood all over this Oh my God! oh God! I think there's bed bugs! Really! I'm just seeing a lot of black dots look at how cracked these walls are. There's mold everywhere! Come on! how am I going to sleep! What the hell is this dude! Better rinse off! The water just goes everywhere! Oh people can see me! Hello! Yeah! Put really sad music over this Do you mind? I forgot how relaxing bathtubs are Let's go get some nice hotel breakfast. Good morning! Oh wow! look at this spread! Good morning Good morning But I didn't really sleep at all so... at least I slept for like 1 or and then go back wake up go back I have a kind of a raging headache actually Every hour there was a major between a group These Kebab guys are It's one in the morning! I swear one of the best sleep in my night and I'm not saying this to But I slept so good! -Oh man, I'm really going to miss this place. Oh dude dead cockroach on the way out One last cockroach goodbye -That's nice Oh rise and shine After a perfect night's rest for all of us we had a packed day ahead. Our first stop was to reconnect who invited us to come watch at the Cathedral of We wish you the best of luck and we will come and see you there in a couple of minutes. Okay, okay. Okay, we have arrived to the church. Ready for some singing This is incredible! They're up! But before we begin to drive we wanted to take a moment to who has enabled a lot of which we're very grateful for Better help As many of you know I've been and it's been really helpful in the sense and my emotions to myself it's been a powerful experience and get the perspective which ultimately allows me &quot;Better help&quot; is the world's largest It lets you have therapy sessions from video chat or messaging whatever works best for you. Better help can usually match all you need to do is about what kind of challenges you're going through and what kind And Better help will then match you Plus if you feel that the therapist is not the right one for you, you can easily switch at the click of To support this Channel and and get 10% off your first session or go to betterhelp.com/yestheory and join the 4 million people and started Living Okay now back to Bulgaria! Roadtrip , roadtrip... After a majestic morning, we hopped in the car for a 3-hour where the famous annual Rose An event that took over the whole city with decorations cultural For the sake of Team morale however we decided to delay today's to not stir up any more drama! Okie dokie! This is where you Damn! However when we arrived I think we missed it, I think Why didn't they say at what time it would start? It said 2:30, which is but I guess the parade Are you okay? This is like why we Yep! What does it look like? Can you show me a photo, Yeah we can play it now, it looks like kind of like this. -That's what it looks like? Oh my God! That would have been cool to we could have seen it if we But in life when things sometimes you have to do -Okay, well it's not all over. Oh you did it! As we prepared for our second coin toss to decide the fate of our our new Bulgarian mom Gergana who had made the three-hour drive to join was going to be the and join the winning team in Hello! We miss you, good to see you! In every place that we're and we've booked the fanciest most so what we need you to do is to flip the coin. -Me?! To make this road trip together worth -Heads In bulgarian we say &quot;eze&quot;, We choose easy cuz it's going to be easy Wait, no she's picking heads for you. -Yeah that's what I said. Yeah easy cuz it's easy. -Just toss it on the ground I don't know how I feel I feel sorry for you... Easy, too easy... Well enjoy the f***ing pool or whatever you have I'm assuming it's really nice. Fingers crossed, we can pray too that this -What is ours? I don't recommend. The The couch creaked It does not match I think we were I think people are probably I think we were a little too arrogant. We need to find at least 10 It's a shared bathroom and the I love that two things. It's colorful on the outside It says call the person 20 F*** -Wow! All right! Wow, automatic! This is crazy! You smell that? not mold smells It smells like Victory I'm not using these legs to climb Hello! hello! We are two happy guests that are -When you will come? But no no stress I don't perfect see you soon nice Bye... -One day you're up and one day you're down. Gosh dude! oh my Towels! We're going to watch We got three pools! You see all the jacuzzis over there! Is that tennis courts?! You gus brought wine?! Yes! For the winners! Oh, hi! how are you? Mitko, that's a cool name. I think you feel good You think we'll like it? Awesome! give us the grand tour. -Okay, beautiful! -It's a lot of colors, that's the name? The name goes... -Thank you so much. You share with one man -From this room. -We love sharing. -Yeah, behind the door. To be honest this looks We had the bad Welcome to our This is my bed This is Thomas's bed This is our colorful shared couch and this is an extra colorful bed and wait for the best part our own private balcony! We won the freaking Don't put the garbage can on your face. But it's so clean here so it doesn't... A lot of colors in this hostle hotel. Why do you think you were or like still have Because I am an alien I am from Andromeda (another galaxy) I don't know, maybe because I When you see a lot and and when you see all that Just tell me, here okay here. There? okay there. You know, one of You're with Five Guys?! What will they do to me?! People always think I always think that it will be I say let's go explore Let's do it! And so at 10:30 p.m. at in the darkness of the Steffan and I were set on having a Thomas where do you Is it like this way? This way? this way? or.. I think there's something Here's the deal guys, 40% of the people that watch our which means nobody leaves a so if you could spare and leave a comment and leave a like that will be much appreciated. Oh my god! Dude it's How did we walk down that Oh, should we do a rollercoaster? You're from Yes Theory right? Welcome to Bulgaria Thank you so much What are you doing here? What are you doing here? Where are we? Grill fair, because you have a lot of meat here Would you trust these rollercoasters? Yeah! Why not! You guys want to go Yes! of course! Is it safe? Uhh in theory it's uh... it's safe... Holy f*** Amazing! Thank you, wow that was fun guys! You sleep tight here This is the special one, you're going to enjoy it. Well, now we're seeing Hello! hello! Today we're going -Yeah. You're also going to pass on top of it Say it again? You are going to pass with her on top of it. We? No, I think we're just watching. You're going to watch it and then It's for good health. What?! You didn't tell me that. I didn't, I swear I didn't know. I thought it was only watching. Who do we have here Guys! Have you just gotten a massage? -Yes! Hello! Somehow I think we still -Yeah we got like 8 hours. Four.... How did that happen? Oh I don't know! We going for a bloody mary or what are we going to do? Yeah! We went on a roller Wow! How was it to spend time Just great! I will repeat. How many stars out of five stars Five stars only? Noo, like 10 Stars! 10 stars and more! Have you always had this -So much! For everybody, oh you're crazy... You have free spirit So nice to get to know you! Have a good ride to home Actually, we'll see you next Yeah, or wherever Gergana, you keep on living your free life Yes I will, I I have no other choice. Okay, we continue on our journey. We have new surprise coming up, and it's going to be the most intense and one of the most famous Traditions that's going to It has nothing to do with fire or so so don't think about so don't think about it Like I'll be burning?! Off we go! As the trip continued despite we were starting to it's clearly a place that but those who have stayed have sought ways It's also a country in with incredible history It also seems that in there is some sense of hope for and we're hearing that some Whether that will outpace how is impossible to tell at this point. But from a traveler's perspective Bulgaria has been an So many people, it smells amazing It's like a village party. This is cool! Eric and Tommy do you -No! This is a very old tradition in Bulgaria where they walk And apparently there's that the Ottoman Empire, they came to the town And there was a woman who said &quot;If I managed to walk on the burning coal without getting burnt&quot; &quot;Then you will let my village and myself be alone&quot; And they did? She did, she walked, she didn't burn herself The Ottoman man he left her and the village alone That coal is looking hot! Oh! he's doing it It looks like they're in a trance or something It's pretty amazing that ancient traditions Can survive through centuries and that we can come and appreciate them and celebrate it in their own modern way Wow, have you done this before? No no first time Could we try it? Yes yes if you want, you can try it I'll be right here, this I can't come through this. Look come on that you can do it sorry what's that? oh I got to be... What time do you said... I'm going to do it You're doing it as well?! When in Bulgaria, am I right? You're going? I will try we'll try okay He's going, if he's going and he's fine... Oh my gosh! What the f***!! Wow it's hot! I'm just standing You go and tell us how it is. Okay Okay! but I did it! Two times... We're supposed to be in a deep spiritual state to overcome the pain of the fire we're not really in that state right now I follow my mentor That's f***ing burn! One, two, three oh my God! oh my God! That one got me! Tomy hasn't been yet This is the aftermath Don't do that at home guys It's bad! Anything for yes Theory baby Oh and you're probably wondering Well our Yes Theory producer Melly who had chosen all the hotels had a plot twist for the finale The time has come guys The final coin flip I got a message sent to me &quot;Yo chicos for the final we're &quot;from now on you are all on the same side&quot; &quot;If you win a five-star hotel &quot;if you lose you will go and buy It's way too hot to sleep in a tent I've had no sleep in 2 days Okay, so this one has religious and then there's a one. Tomy you're feeling it Are you all putting the faith in me? Yeah I say number one number Number one one one one one I can finally sleep From fascinating traditions we feel we got a lot out of It feels like a door of to come back and These Eastern European countries who have had to certainly all seem to have but the overall atmosphere was more hopeful than the statistic may make it seem. For a country to have a fun on our end it's a 10 out of 10. But maybe don't stay Okay, I'll see you next week!