Hitler practically moved alongside the advancing troops. I think that when this pillbox appeared, they knew it was Himmler's bunker. Right now, work is underway to descend into the basement, as there is a building there. Some researchers feel that air is coming from here. And there might be an entrance to hidden underground bunkers. Soviet propaganda portrayed Hitler as a coward, but it turns out he had command posts in occupied territories and traveled closer to the front line. So where was Stalin during that time? &quot;The Execution of Hitler&quot; A Jewish man with the last name Hitler was detained in Vinnytsia. A brief response: &quot;There should be only one Hitler.&quot; &quot;Traitor&quot; Hitler said, &quot;I have nothing to ask or discuss with a general whom I defeated.&quot; &quot;Drugs&quot; If Hitler had left Berlin, the maximum he would have survived was five years. &quot;Werwolf. Hitler's Headquarters in Ukraine&quot; We did our best to make this video truly interesting. So, please like the content, subscribe to the Pressing channel, and I promise, you will find it very interesting, and today you'll hear a lot of information, unexpected, for the first time. We're heading to where all stories end. But ours will begin here. It sounds surreal, but Nazis are buried here. In 1996, the German authorities asked the Ukrainian side to restore this cemetery. The German side finances everything and will take care of similar Ukrainian graves on their territory. The graves were very close to the Guiwa River. And during rising water, German soldiers' coffins would almost float around Zhytomyr. You're saying that the cemetery was likely bigger before. Now there are houses there, which might stand on bones. This cemetery was about one and a half times bigger. In all directions. To the right, to the left, toward the road. And right behind me, where the shops are now, they might be standing on the bones of German soldiers. Interestingly enough, this cemetery also holds the grave of Himmler's personal pilot, who decided to go hunting in these woods with his friend and was killed by local partisans. During World War II, cemeteries had inscriptions: "whoever takes any item (usually it could be a helmet of a fallen German soldier), the thief will be punished by death." And I want to say that as long as the cemetery exists, and there are German cemeteries, there have been no acts of vandalism. Were there attempts 10-20 years later to dig up, find some gold? People love such things, black archaeologists. All graves were disturbed because it was known that there were officers here, officers of the Wehrmacht SS. They believed they must all be decorated with awards and entirely covered in gold, or have pockets filled with gold. But that wasn't the case. The awards were sent to relatives, and the rings, silver rings, were also sent to Germany. But the graves were disturbed. And I want to say that to this day, there are black archaeologists who still hope to find something. Theodor Eicke is buried here. Is it true there was a condition: "We'll create this cemetery for you, we'll restore it, but Eicke must not be here"? That Eicke's body had to be destroyed somewhere, transported, do whatever you want with it? There was a condition from the Ukrainian side, because they knew who was buried here, especially given it was an infamous figure, the creator of concentration camps, a harsh person who, interestingly enough, died near Kharkiv during a flight on a small plane, the "Fieseler Storch." He was flying around when his plane was hit by a machine gun, it crashed there. And later, by Himmler's order, he was brought here. And in 1996, when this cemetery was created, there was a mandatory condition from the Ukrainian side to locate him and to destroy his burial. One might wonder how to find him. I already said, if everything is recorded in plans. An excavator arrived, and a few truckloads were taken to an unknown location and, as they say, destroyed. Why were there so many unknown soldiers in the Soviet army after World War II, while in Germany, even percentage-wise, it was much less? For Germans, every person mattered greatly. For Soviet leaders, it was just expendable material. Imagine, every German soldier had a tag with two halves, one was placed in the coffin, and the other sent to headquarters, allowing identification and the grave to be found after the battles. Interestingly, many archives have been preserved to this day. In the Soviet Red Army, whoever died, wherever and however, and during search efforts, I want to say, a large number of so-called graves, allegedly of Red Army soldiers, were not accurate. They were either empty or buried in completely different places. This reflects the attitude towards ordinary people, towards ordinary soldiers. There was a big difference in this. There were also so-called death medallions in the Soviet Union, but they didn't work well, as I understand it. They were simply called &quot;death tags,&quot; and some soldiers didn't fill them out. Sometimes, when these are found during burial searches, they're empty. They're simply empty. When filled out correctly, using a special chemical pencil and carefully preserved, they were later sent to the internal affairs lab (they never refused, they would reveal, preserve it, and information could be found). But a large number, even those found, were simply empty and unfilled. And many Red Army soldiers didn't have these so-called medallions at all. Of course, Werwolf was the main German command base in Ukraine. But besides this headquarters, there were two other important ones. The first was near the cemetery by Zhytomyr. I am now at Himmler's headquarters, Hegewald. It's the only German headquarters in Ukraine that's been well-preserved. And it's essentially an ordinary human courtyard. In the house where Himmler once lived, ordinary Ukrainians now live. And here, in this interesting circular zone, a huge swastika was once drawn. But the biggest giveaway of this place is, of course, Himmler's bunker, in which he probably never hid. Because it was quite safe here. In general, many people wanted to kill Himmler, probably the most ruthless leader of the Third Reich. One of the organizers of the Holocaust and the SS, he loved mysticism, racial theories, and some of his ideas were too twisted even for Hitler. Why were all the German headquarters in Ukraine destroyed, but here, a normal human courtyard, a bunker, remains intact? The main place of destruction was the officer's house, where the SS office was located, and where the Ost plan was announced. Is it nearby? Yes, yes, it's close by. It so happened that there was a military unit here before, during, and after World War II, plus the buildings around, where the officer corps lived, including this house. Just in case, these bunkers remained intact because the Germans blew up all the others. This one was used by the Germans during World War II in 1943. I think they were retreating so quickly that they didn't have time to blow it up. And the Red Army didn't blow it up either, since it could still be used, as we can see, with the walls insulated with styrofoam. They set it all up, ran electricity, and left only the phone connection and water. I read that Himmler even had a tennis court nearby and felt quite safe here. I don't know about the existence of a court, but it definitely could have been here. German troops, pardon, are marching victoriously towards Stalingrad. On July 4th, Sevastopol fell, with 90,000 Soviet soldiers captured. So, in 1942, they felt like victors. They believed that by the end of 1942, the war would end in their victory. Welcome to Himmler's bunker. These authentic heavy doors are from that time. The bunker itself is small, low-ceilinged, be careful. People still hide here from the shelling of other Nazis. Come inside. It's quite modest. A small room. There's ventilation here. Here was a special cable for communication. Behind me, there's also an important room because it's an emergency exit. There was a machine gunner here. But the most interesting part is probably here. You won't see much. Everything is now concreted and covered. But you can tell there's something there. There's a, let's say, legend, or maybe it's not a legend because we used geolocators and didn't find any hidden passages. Eyewitnesses say otherwise. They are doing some small excavations now. And there's a legend that there's an entire tunnel at least 12 meters deep, connected to another room. Do you believe it or not? Write in the comments. Can you tell us when you first entered this bunker? In 1964, I entered this bunker. I kept salt here. Cucumbers, tomatoes, cabbage. And then the residents. That's been 60 years. Right? 60 years of storage. Well, I think when this pillbox appeared, people knew it was Himmler's bunker. There are many myths about what lies underground here. Some kind of deep passage. Do you remember anything about it, or is it just myths? No, it's not a joke or anything. Right here... a metal ladder, 17 meters deep. This ladder was here, but it wasn't completely filled. Well, about 30-40, I filled it completely. Then, when they found out, to prevent anyone from climbing down (a 12-meter-deep metal ladder), I filled it up. Later, when they learned about the bunker here, our search team concreted it so no one would climb down. They're currently working on getting down to this basement, as there's reportedly a structure down there. This is our emergency exit. Note the doors. There are bullet marks, likely left by Red Army soldiers who wanted to test the doors' strength. By the way, Himmler's grandson once tried to enter with a German delegation, but they were told not to let him in. The interior was very austere, no expensive paintings, decorations, or dinner sets. So, it was temporary. What kind of palaces were planned for the future, we don't know. We only know the palace Goring built at his headquarters. But here, after WWII, it was kept in secrecy. So, locals didn't know Himmler lived here for some time. Is it true that Himmler suggested to Hitler to take Ukrainians as allies at the headquarters? This happened at Werwolf, as the war dragged on. The front was vast, and the German army's mobilization resources were not as large as the Red Army's. Studying the Ukrainian people's history, as the Anenerbe organization did, which focused on not just occult sciences but also archaeological and historical studies, they informed Himmler that the Ukrainian people suffered from the Holodomor and hated communists, suggesting they join the victorious army of the Third Reich. To which Hitler responded, "I don't want our red victory flag, the Nazi flag, to be stained with the blood of 'untermenschen.'" Hitler had a negative view of Ukrainians. He reminded them of the 1918 murder of a German general in Kyiv and said not to talk about Ukrainians to him. "We already brought them freedom in 1918, and they acted like that." So he viewed Ukrainians like all Slavs: as "untermenschen." Our guide Andriy Shvachko has been studying Werwolf for over ten years. Together with Belgian researcher Martin Bogart, they wrote a book debunking dozens of myths about Werwolf. Today, Werwolf looks like an ordinary park with suspicious concrete rocks. The energy here is unique, though. This is how it looked during WWII. An autonomous military town for Hitler and the high command, where key decisions were made. Eighty-three wooden houses, three bunkers, and even a swimming pool. Life bustled here, and plans were made for seizing new USSR territories. If you walk around Werwolf alone without a guide, nothing makes sense. That's true. Why? We're now exiting the zone where the headquarters commandant stayed. Where Bunker Three was located. People only see rocks. Just some rocks. And they don't understand what it is or why it's here. In photos, it all looks like some sort of summer camp, almost like a children's camp. Is it true they were just building temporarily? Because Hitler thought he would spend the cold winters much further in Russia, and this would be a deep rear base. About the temporariness. They used prefabricated buildings. They were wooden but prefabricated. Such houses were used, and then they could be disassembled and moved elsewhere. In the last decade, so many myths have been invented about Werwolf. Probably the most popular myth is these concrete blocks. People say there's an entire underground city here, up to seven levels, with massive bunkers, and this legend has its author. A famous German doctor who had a bit too much fun here and later wrote a book recounting it all. Seven levels underground, an underground city--well, it seems like it could have been. We researched this question, even geologically. Just a kilometer ahead, there's a huge quarry that existed during WWII. And beneath us is the Ukrainian granite shield. About 2-3 meters from the surface is granite. We know exactly when the headquarters started construction: December 11, 1941, and by April 1942, it was ready to host visitors who would work here. In such a short time, carrying out massive works was impossible. That's the technical part. Another part. Any defensive structure must be built if there's a threat. For example, Hitler's Berlin bunker. It should have been the largest and strongest, one would think. It was a bomb shelter until '43, and only in '43, when the front turned, they started building a new one. But again, it wasn't grand. There was no military need to build underground shelters here. A German doctor spread this myth, coming here, having a great time, drinking, and was reportedly told about these underground bunkers, which I understand he never saw. Afterwards, he wrote a book, and a film was made, which became very popular, making the doctor a millionaire. Because I never found the film, though the book exists. After WWII, all of Hitler's entourage tried, not to cover for him, but to blame everything on him. They claimed they were innocent and knew nothing about the concentration camps or the Holocaust, saying he was solely responsible. This desire to blame him brought these tales to the forefront. As for Dr. Zeirbruch, he was on his way to provide medical aid in Turkey, but he drank heavily in Vinnytsia. What he saw remains unknown. Hitler tolerated certain weaknesses in close associates who weren't at the headquarters. No such drunkenness happened here, not at all. But Hitler forgave some close associates. This is a known trait. For those party comrades who, during the Munich Putsch, walked with him into police bullets. After he came to power, they received no positions but got excellent pensions. So, they lived comfortably. Himmler once found out that his comrades, when drunk, claimed, "We were with Hitler..." and so on. And he said, "Hitler is badmouthing you." But Hitler said, "These guys went into police bullets with me, so I forgive them." Why don't I personally believe in these underground cities? Because, again, Germany was a technological country, and many soldiers had cameras. Where are the bunker photos? Yes, that's true. Practically every second soldier had a camera. We have countless photos of Wolf's Lair, the main headquarters. Hitler's main headquarters, with bunkers with three, five meters of reinforced concrete walls and coverings. Yes, there are tons of photos. Everything is clear, especially the external structures, but again, there's even a selection of documentary photos from the construction showing that the foundation is slightly below ground level, while the whole structure is above. This block long puzzled us--what is it, and how did it happen this way? But then we found photos from 1944 that clearly show there were steel I-beams on top as anti-splinter protection. During the explosion, when the bunker was blown up directly, this roof flew up, flipped in the air, and fell outside directly on the bunker. On this trip, I really felt how much cooler it's gotten outside. Especially in the mornings. The war taught us to prepare early. So don't wait for the first snow to panic and line up for tire changes. If you feel it's already chilly in the morning and you're uncomfortable in your summer sneakers, that's a sign to change not only your shoes but also your tires. Tires and wheels. The place that cares about your safety. They're a direct importer of well-known, reliable brands. The guys will recommend quality tires that won't fail in challenging weather. And without costing a fortune. They have warehouses and tire services in Kyiv, Lviv, Kharkiv, Dnipro, and Odesa. So don't delay replacement--it's your safety. And it saves nerves--who likes standing in traffic jams? And a nice bonus for my channel viewers. I'll leave a link in the description for you. Go to Tires and Wheels, choose what you need, and don't forget to enter the promo code PRESSING. That way, you'll get a pleasant discount. Tires and Wheels. It's easy when you work with an expert. Initially, Werwolf was supposed to be built in Poltava region. Soviet historians say Hitler was scared because of the many partisans there. In reality, the main issue was logistics. There was no railway. In Zhytomyr, for example, there were also many partisans, but Himmler's headquarters construction wasn't canceled there. There are memories from a German officer who served in the Vinnytsia headquarters, saying life in Vinnytsia in 1942 was quiet. You could walk around the city freely both day and night. But that was only in 1942. In Zhytomyr region, he said, they couldn't move freely, not even in the evening. They didn't move between cities at all and only traveled during the day with armed escorts. They constantly expected partisan attacks. There was also interesting information that during the construction of Werwolf, they supposedly found graves of Soviet people killed by the NKVD. They returned these bodies to locals as a gesture of goodwill. Is that true, or is it another myth? These places are very calm, and the NKVD didn't carry out executions there. The NKVD didn't bother with that--they executed people in the city center and buried them in the city park. Interestingly, in 1942 or 1943, the Germans unearthed these burial sites in the center of Vinnytsia, near their facility. Then people came to claim these bodies because a booklet was made. Yes, it was propaganda--a propaganda trick to show they were "good" and communists were "bad." I want to say that Nazis and communists were the same for all of humanity. Their flags were even the same color, red. The only difference was a star on one and a swastika on the other. But the main field was red. They were the same. Another legend is that many Red Army POWs built Werwolf and were all shot afterward. However, I never found any documents about these executions. While researching archives, thanks to my colleague, researcher Martin Bogart from Flanders, he found Todt Organization documents detailing the personnel numbers and specific people who worked at the "Werwolf" headquarters. It turned out that primarily foreign specialists worked inside the headquarters. There were Czechs, Poles, and Germans. POWs were only involved in one task. They built paths and roads around the headquarters. That's it. They didn't engage in anything else there. Do you think those people were shot or not? Imagine the situation. Workers were brought to the forest, unfamiliar with the geography, to clear a small area. They were taken back once done and did nothing else there. Why shoot them? The same with foreign workers: they came, they were electricians. They came here, did the wiring, and then left to work on other projects, of which there were many. It's fiction and legend. They weren't shot. How accurate is it to say that Werwolf was built to allow Hitler to be closer to the front line to issue commands faster? The 1939 campaign, the advance on Poland. Hitler practically moved along with the advancing troops. In fact, the Mercedes G4 cars were originally black but were repainted in matte Feldgrau. A gray color, with special covers on the headlights for light masking. This meant that the cars were in the combat zone. Soviet propaganda portrayed Hitler as a coward, but it turns out he had headquarters on occupied territory, moving closer to the front line. Where was Stalin, then? The fact is that Hitler had fought in WWI and earned medals. So, in general, he wasn't a coward by any means. There was an interesting situation in Brule de Peche when Allied planes flew over the headquarters to bomb German positions, and they said, "Fuhrer, go to the shelter," since there was a shelter. To which he replied: "I won't hide now because these planes aren't coming for me--they're coming to bomb my soldiers. So I won't hide." The fact that Hitler indeed was on occupied territories, and as I said, during the Polish campaign, he came closer to the front line, he wasn't afraid of it, while Comrade Stalin was constantly hiding. Honestly, he was afraid of the Germans and feared his own circle even more. So, yes, he sat in the bunker, not coming out. Once, literature mentioned Stalin supposedly visiting positions on the front line. But I'd say that's likely a big lie because he didn't leave. He was simply terrified for his life. He really reminds me of someone. It's hard to live in constant fear like that. Even eating is a risk for a dictator. Luckily, I'm not a dictator, and I know exactly where to grab a tasty bite. Don't forget to refuel at OKKO, as one hryvnia from every liter goes to Pulstrons. It's a big, important fundraiser that won't close itself. As for delicious food, I've been facing a dilemma lately. Pizza or burger? I've already tried all the pizzas--cheese is definitely my top choice. But I haven't yet tried the farm beef burger. Let's give it a shot. I hope you're not too hungry right now and won't think bad thoughts about me, but it's really delicious. The meat is great, and most importantly, it's not overcooked. The patty is truly juicy. There's plenty of mozzarella. And I love fried bacon. It reminds me of the good old days before the full-scale war, those trips to Europe for football, where they served delicious bacon in hotels. Also, grab some fries and a cappuccino--it's the perfect boost for the whole day. Quick, tasty, and it makes me want to work much more. The Germans were an enemy from whom there was something to learn. For example, how to build fortifications. It's useful even now. The Autobahn, the Siegfried Line, and even Werwolf were built by a single company called the Todt Organization. This military construction giant scaled up to the point that at its peak, it had almost one and a half million workers. They camouflaged Werwolf so well that it was impossible to tell from a plane that it was a military site. Is it true that there were artificial trees near Hitler's house instead of real ones? Real trees were dried with a special solution to make them fire-resistant. Interestingly, documents even list the company responsible for these camouflage works. In peacetime, this company did landscaping, but during the war, it handled camouflage. Martin Bogart found this company. He wrote to the current owners in German, as he's fluent, saying that they were studying the history of Werwolf and found a document linking their grandfather to it, but they didn't respond. If you like this video, don't forget to hit the like button. But more importantly, support my personal fundraiser for prosthetics for soldiers from the 3rd Separate Assault Brigade and Azov. These guys have severe amputations and sacrificed their health, so please, this fundraiser is socially vital and needed. Any amount you can spare, please donate; I'll leave the link in the description under this video, along with a QR code on the screen. Support these guys because it's really important. There was a story that some work was being done at a quarry, with explosions, and no one was warned. Hitler and his entourage got a little scared by the blasts. This is true. It's even noted in the headquarters commandant's documents. Well, at the quarry. To extract granite, you have to blast it. Interestingly, Hitler's house and windows faced the quarry. He could clearly hear everything because the windows were open, and so on. Of course, it's wartime, and who knows what might happen about a kilometer, a kilometer and a half, from the house to this quarry. The headquarters commandant then made a decision. and issued a directive to the quarry management that during Hitler's stay, only quiet work was allowed--no blasting. In November '41, Todt told Hitler directly that the war was lost, that they couldn't manage economically, and that they needed peace with the USSR. Is this true or not? Honestly, I don't quite believe that. Why? Because in November, even though they hadn't taken Moscow in 1941, the Germans were still advancing, standing 60 kilometers from Moscow. So, the threat to Moscow was still immense. Hitler was hopeful for the 1942 campaign, believing it would be decisive, that "we'll cut off supply lines, oil deliveries via the Volga, and the war will end with a Nazi victory." So I think he wouldn't have said things like that. Hitler had a very strict nature. He would have scolded him or called him a coward. He would have destroyed him. He would've bullied him relentlessly. That's for sure. The head of the Todt Organization unexpectedly died in a plane crash. Later, it became clear that the bunkers at Werwolf were poorly built, rushed. The Germans assumed it was a secure rear area, close to victory, and that there'd be no bombings. But an order is an order. Why did Hitler stay at Werwolf so long, rarely leaving? People recall that Goring liked theaters, traveling to Vinnytsia. Hitler didn't do that. When people, especially Himmler, would come and suggest ideas about colors and such, Hitler would reply, "If you have time to do that, go ahead." Hitler focused on the front lines and ensuring the German people didn't suffer from the war. So he spent all his time at the headquarters. He'd wake up very late, sometimes sleep until 3 p.m., then work until 3 a.m. Yes, he was a night owl. A vegetarian and a night owl. And he'd hold meetings until 3 a.m. He could talk for hours in monologues. Not always relevant or on-topic. Hitler rarely appeared in Vinnytsia. He tried to disturb the local population as little as possible to avoid conflicts. Meanwhile, Himmler began building a German presence in Ukraine during the war. Around his headquarters, he relocated Ukrainians to create German towns. Himmler started resettling the Ukrainian population near his headquarters, preferring to hear German and see German citizens, creating small settlements. This also made it safer, reducing the risk of encountering partisans. But there was also an attempt to colonize these lands non-violently. A house from 1906 in German style. In the late 18th century, German settlers actively moved here, occupying these lands. Again, without weapons. The lands were largely wild. By the late 19th century, 171,000 Germans lived here. This is a "Kirche," meaning "house of God." And you can guess it's a German church--one of the last preserved in its original state. How it survived to this day, I honestly don't know. But given the lack of upkeep, it probably won't last much longer. We're now in the former German settlement of Sorochany. Germans came here for agriculture long before WWII. The place was wild, with swamps, forests, and lots of wolves. Little did they know that soon Hitler, nicknamed the Wolf, would occupy these lands with Germans in arms. It all looks very simple. Wood. The floor is still in decent condition, though some areas have collapsed. It seems they tore it up there. There's a second floor. Lots of patterns, inscriptions. Most of the inscriptions are, of course, a bit vulgar and modern. Let's try going up to the second floor, if it's still intact. It's more cheerful here. Stairs. Not all are intact, some are a bit rotten. Also, look at the nails; they're not like ours, they're square. It's sad that this building is crumbling; the roof is practically gone. This side has completely collapsed, and I can feel the floor sinking under me. The central part is well-preserved. However, if you look at the ceiling, it appears to have visibly sagged. To understand how dilapidated this house is, just look at the floor--it's sloping sharply to the left, probably by about 40 cm. Sooner or later, this house may simply collapse. I think these supports were installed not too long ago. Because they probably weren't there originally. Even the nails. They seem roughly from the Soviet period, or maybe even modern. Himmler began resettling the Ukrainian population, creating a German settlement around his headquarters. How was this done? Were the methods violent, and why did he do it? During WWI, they said there wasn't enough room for them under the sun. Indeed, Europe was overpopulated, including German villages and towns, with a plan to relocate part of the German population after a victory in WWII. But this began during the German occupation of Ukraine. The Ost Plan was developed, outlining which territories, settlements, and the German population numbers for each. So it was a thoroughly planned economic system. It's known that Germans allowed Ukrainians to take tools, livestock, etc., and resettled them in southern Ukraine. This included Zaporizhia, Mykolaiv, and Kherson, where they were to establish agriculture. Himmler wanted to give Ukrainian lands, as the most fertile, to SS heroes. Again, after victory. The local population would be used as a workforce. Some publications state that their plan was to Germanize these areas within 30 years, ensuring only German was spoken and they performed basic tasks. They sought artifacts proving the presence of Goths on our lands. Why? Firstly, it was about the ancient Germanic history, but for Himmler, it was also a justification. Justification for his policies, including resettlement, to explain it to the global community and even to the Germans themselves. The fact is, according to documents, German colonists were not particularly eager to move to these lands. They lived in Germany, where their ancestors had been for generations. And not many were willing to leave and relocate to new lands. But they needed to make it grand, to &quot;return to the land of their ancestors,&quot; and so on. What about the population living around Werwolf? They then approached the headquarters commandant, Colonel Schmidt, to figure things out. Schmidt didn't go to Hitler; he knew Hitler's stance was that any place where Hitler's institutions or residence were located should avoid terrorizing the civilian population. The only thing that &quot;concerned&quot; Hitler was ensuring there was no Jewish population. This is indeed true. Wherever Hitler lived, the Jewish population was subjected to extermination. They tried to create an image of a benevolent presence, like a kindly uncle on occupied territory. You mentioned there are documents indicating that many Ukrainians, especially women, later went to Germany. Did they go to Germany during the war? We have documents, duplicates of the Werwolf headquarters files kept by Soviet security agencies. In some cases, there are lists of people who were wanted. When the security agencies arrived and began investigating Werwolf's activities in Styrzhivka, they gathered a lot of information about women from Styrzhivka who had gone to Germany with German soldiers, specifically with staff from this headquarters. How did the German authorities, and Germans in general, view the Ukrainian population? Soviet history tells us many horror stories, some true, some not. For example, I found a photo in your book where Germans buy goods at the market instead of seizing them like the Red Army might have. German soldiers would come to the market, exchanging or purchasing goods from the local population. In general, it could be divided into two categories. It was a normal, peaceful relationship in the rear. There was buying, trading, and friendly conversation. They talked about families, children, and so on. But during combat, relations were of a different nature. For example, during the Korsun-Shevchenkovsky operation, when the Germans were trapped in the cauldron, temperatures dropped to zero during the day and minus 20 at night. The Germans would drive people out to warm up themselves. So, such things varied. I must say it was different from the Red Army's return to Ukraine, who accused the locals of "feasting in the German rear." There was a lot of looting. And I must say that Soviet military leadership encouraged this. German command forbade it. Why? Because looting is considered marauding and undermines discipline within the army. We see today that the Red Army committed even worse atrocities against their population than the Germans did. In Vinnytsia, the Nazis felt more or less at home. Goring enjoyed going to the center, walking to the theater. Hitler didn't have time for that, limiting himself to walks. But his personal pilot, Franz Bauer, was quite remarkable. He'd come here in his Schwimmwagen, an amphibious vehicle, and amazed locals when he'd drive into the Southern Bug River, take out fishing rods, and enjoy a weekend fishing. He carried fishing rods or a spinning reel in his plane, either a Ju-52 or a Condor Focke-Wulf. When he had a few hours, he'd ask the boss if he needed to fly anywhere. If he had more than a few hours, sometimes even days, he'd go fishing. Interestingly, only SS troops were typically equipped with amphibians, but he was allowed a personal military vehicle he used as a boat. By the way, I'll be sharing a special topic on Buy Me A Coffee. An episode that could have ended the war much earlier. Hitler was sitting in a plane, with Soviet tanks targeting him. Why didn't they shoot? Find the answer via the link in this video's description. There were many attempts on Hitler's life, but few know that he was &quot;killed&quot; in Vinnytsia. Let me explain. One day, a strange message arrived at headquarters, saying, "We've detained someone with the last name Hitler. What should we do with him?" A Jewish man named Hitler was detained in Vinnytsia. As always, there was an inquiry and a response. That's how documents in intelligence cases were formed. It's a normal process for all, including German intelligence. And the response was brief. There could only be one Hitler. This is where Hitler's house was located. A few details give it away. First, there was a large bunker directly connected to the building. Another interesting feature is these almost invisible red steps on the porch. They appear in many photos where Hitler stands here, reading documents, with his German Shepherd, Blondi, whom he probably loved more than people, sitting beside him. Once, during rainy weather, I accidentally brushed some moss away with my foot, and the porch was revealed. The porch appeared, becoming a starting point. We knew Hitler's bunker was to my right. We had numerous photos and identified this as House No. 11, to which the bunker was attached. Thanks to this, knowing the dimensions from preserved photos, we measured from the porch and created a 3D reconstruction of Hitler's personal office. Today, we have photographs from all angles, and we know exactly how this office looked. Later, we also understood the internal layout of the bunker. Those two embedded metal structures show the width of the corridor leading to the bunker entrance. There were wooden doors to Hitler's office here. If needed, though it never happened while he was here, he could open these wooden doors and enter the corridor leading to the bunker. Around the perimeter, we see metal embeds showing the exact area of the bunker. Could you tell us what number Hitler's house was at Werwolf? Most people assume it was No. 1. They think, "Well, it had to be No. 1, couldn't be any other way." But his was No. 11. From the first headquarters, they numbered the buildings, and he always had number eleven. The answer is simple. Hitler sometimes answered questions from his circle like this: "I already know I'm the first man in the Reich. These formalities aren't necessary." There's Blondi, his German Shepherd, in your photo. It seems Hitler loved her more than people. Honestly, yes. She was always by his side. I think she lived in this same building with Hitler. There are around 70 color photographs of Blondi and the headquarters. Seventy. And back then, color film was probably more expensive than gold. Interestingly, records show that when the cinematographers arrived, Hitler made only two remarks about what not to record. One was when he asked the time, and the other was when Blondi, present during meetings, began howling after hours of Hitler's monologues. He'd say, "Blondi, be quiet." Some researchers think air flows from here, indicating a possible entrance to hidden underground bunkers. They question my account, suggesting perhaps I'm hiding something, believing there are underground chambers. Well, everyone believes what they want to believe. Do you think there are Third Reich treasures here? Could there be? Everyone asks about that. The only missing "treasure" is a silver ring lost by an SS officer. No one has found it yet. So, not all hope is lost. No point digging here for the Amber Room? Not at all--there's nowhere to hide it here. One treasure is known. It's the ring that's never been found. SS officers wore these rings. One officer, after drinking a bit too much, lost it here. Interestingly, a letter was sent to the Berlin office noting that an officer had lost his ring while on duty. Then, the secret police wrote to their leadership about the incident, noting that the officer had been drunk and lost his ring. So, there were two letters on the same issue. There's an online theory, unappealing to Russians but likely false, suggesting that Hitler met with Soviet Lieutenant General Vlasov here. Vlasov, who later led the Russian Liberation Army and switched sides to the Nazis. The ROA--Russian Liberation Army. Today, Russians avoid discussing that during WWII, Russians were among the most active collaborators with Hitler. They rant about the "evil Nazi" Bandera, imprisoned in Sachsenhausen, yet ignore the nearly one million of their own who switched sides to fight the USSR. Lieutenant General Vlasov is practically a taboo. A talented commander, who, before capture, was one of the best. Many call him the "savior of Moscow," Stalin's general. Then came captivity, Vlasov switched sides, and in the end, the generals who may have saved the USSR in '41 were neither pardoned nor shot but hanged in disgrace and erased from history. So it's easier for them to talk about the "mythical Bandera" than their real Vlasov. In fact, Vlasov never met with Hitler, but at one time, he was held here. Today, it's a psychiatric hospital in Vinnytsia, but back then, it was the Wehrmacht's army headquarters. They treated the Soviet general with great care, keeping him in good conditions, knowing his importance for future propaganda. He was the commander of the 37th Army, which defended Kyiv for 72 days, then the 20th Army, which saved Moscow. I have to say, Vlasov was a high-caliber military leader. But when a meeting between Vlasov and Hitler was suggested, Hitler replied, "I have no reason to speak with a general I defeated." So the Wehrmacht propaganda department took him under its wing, and that's how we know about the Vlasovites and the Vlasov Army. This is the only thing in perfect condition--the swimming pool. It might seem like the Germans were having a good time here. Himmler had a tennis court, Hitler had his own pool, but it was actually for fire protection. Similar pools were built at almost every military base. As I said, this pool wasn't for swimming; the water was very cold. A few daredevils tried swimming, but no one did it regularly. Reading Soviet researchers on Werwolf, you imagine Germans partying all night, swimming in the pool in the morning to refresh, then heading to the casino. Yes, there was a "casino" here. But there's a catch. Soviet media portrayed Germans as party-loving drinkers. They claimed the Germans often played in the casino at Werwolf. But I understand that in German, the word "casino" has another meaning. Soviet propaganda projected what they saw in Soviet trenches and rear areas onto the Germans. But the Germans didn't drink hard liquor. No pure spirits or vodka. Their main drinks were light alcoholic beverages. Beer and wine. During our research, we found many empty bottles of French wine. Cognac bottles were very rare. That was more common among officers than soldiers. We found plenty of empty beer bottles. Well, to say that there was Soviet vodka or pure spirits--that wasn't the case. Because that was the prerogative of the Red Army, which, excuse me, sometimes drank so much they couldn't go into battle. And the commander, who got drunk to oblivion, would then throw soldiers at German machine guns. For the Red Army, this was a common occurrence. And was there a casino or not? Regarding the casino. The fact is that in German, &quot;Casino&quot; generally means an officers' club. It's not a gambling establishment. Directly, as it pertains to the German language. There was no drinking whatsoever. It's well known that since 1934, Hitler was a vegetarian. He himself might have a small glass of wine on New Year's or some other holiday. At the headquarters, even in the photograph of a birthday celebration, when we analyzed that photo, they are sitting with wine glasses, and there's one bottle. It was strictly prohibited. At Werwolf, Hitler definitely wasn't into swimming and gambling. Many recall, even his doctors, that he deteriorated significantly there. I'll quote just one of the records. At Werwolf, he became a different person, no longer the brilliant commander. Perhaps the reason lies precisely here. This is the Cherepashyntsi granite quarry. From such quarries, materials were taken for building bunkers, and in the '90s, rumors were spread that the granite, which is radioactive, significantly affected Hitler's health. Granite is part of the reinforced concrete from which the bunkers were made. But he wasn't in the bunkers. He went into the bunker once, looked around, and after that, due to the high humidity, they stored wine, beer, and vegetables there. That is, he wasn't in the bunker; he worked in his house. But let's not forget that the climate in Ukraine and in Europe, in Berlin, is completely different. When Hitler arrived, even now, observations are preserved in directories--maybe not in directories, but in aviation diaries. What was the temperature at different times, because for aviation flights, it was necessary to measure the temperature and record it. Up to 40 degrees Celsius in the shade directly in this area. And it was very difficult for Hitler. All this was tested on Martin Bogart. When we first arrived in 2011, and the weather was up to 35 degrees heat, by evening he was just exhausted. And he then drew a conclusion. That's one reason. And the second reason, let's not forget that at this time, his doctor Morell, who was present here, was injecting him with various narcotic substances to maintain his health. If the problem was radiation, then similar health changes would most likely have arisen in the second person in the Reich--Hermann Goring. The headquarters of the extravagant fashionista was near the Cherepashyntsi quarry. Just look at these landscapes. We are in a locality that the Germans called &quot;Steinbruch,&quot; which translates as &quot;quarry.&quot; And directly, the first headquarters was the railway line where Goring's train was located. In the direction toward the West, it was built--you could say, among these big bosses surrounding Hitler--truly like a palace. That is, in Bavarian style, a house with a stone cellar on which a chalet was built. This is recalled by the Germans who came in 1944 to destroy it. Unlike Hitler and Himmler, Goring simply reveled in luxury. He never hid his wealth. He even had uniforms not according to regulations but as he wanted. Especially for him, almost three kilometers of railway tracks were laid, and while the estate was being built, he lived in a luxurious train. As strange as it may sound, but believe me, the train was mega comfortable. Neither Hitler nor Himmler had such conditions, even at stationary headquarters--not at all. And he was a sybarite, which is connected with the fact that he lived on a train. But I want to say, the conditions themselves were very, very luxurious. There was a situation when they said, &quot;You behave somewhat abnormally, unlike other big bosses.&quot; He had a large number of palaces, a very large amount of valuables--it's clear how they were acquired. Plus, his uniforms--he never followed the prescribed uniform standards. To which he replied: &quot;In general, I meet with many foreign people, so I want to show that Germany is a developed, wealthy country; therefore, I maintain such a style.&quot; And let's not forget that thanks to Goring, Hitler came to power. In fact, the version about radiation and Hitler is a cool newspaper fabrication. What, then, is the real reason for his health deterioration? The fact is that the Germans wanted not only to change history, to make Germany great again, but they also wanted to deceive physiology. At first, they managed quite well. In Zhytomyr and Berdychiv, Hitler's personal doctor had factories producing large quantities of methamphetamines. From the records of Hitler's doctor, it's also clear that he, especially toward the end of his life, was heavily dependent on drugs. The subject of drugs is fascinating. For example, in Germany, marijuana and heroin were criminal offenses. But amphetamine Pervitin was considered, let's say, like our energy drinks. It wasn't categorized as such by doctors. And despite earning a salary and being Hitler's personal doctor, receiving a decent income, he had his own side hustle. Dr. Brandt had a small factory producing Pervitin. Again, there's often talk that all German soldiers, Wehrmacht and SS, used this drug, but in an army of 5 to 10 million people, how many pills would you need per day? It was most common among SS troops. They used it, and officers interacting with the Wehrmacht and SS might share it. According to records, once again from Hitler's doctor, he was effectively addicted to drugs. This is known from medical records, with doctors Brandt and Morell giving him various stimulants. It's said that sometimes it was up to ten injections or pills daily, a significant volume. Every few years, new books, magazines, or photos surface, claiming Hitler lived until the '60s, '70s, or even '80s. Real doctors, those who can truly be called doctors, not just sensationalists looking to profit from such stories, say if Hitler had left Berlin, the maximum he would've survived was five years. Why? If we watch footage from 1945, when he emerged from the bunker in April to award the Hitler Youth, you can see he had Parkinson's, as well as injuries from 1944, and his hand had begun to wither. It was clear from all indications that he was gravely ill. So, you don't believe he died somewhere in Argentina in 2010? Not at all. There's evidence. There's proof that he indeed ended his life. First, eyewitness accounts. For me, the testimonies of two people and their subsequent fate are enough. His chauffeur Kempka, his personal driver, who was also at Werwolf, emptied all the fuel by the bunker, the Fuhrer bunker in Berlin, and might have even poured the gasoline himself over Hitler's and Eva Braun's bodies. The same testimony was given by his personal pilot, Franz Bauer. While he was in a Soviet prison, he was only ever asked one question. They said, &quot;We know you flew him out, and you returned to the bunker on purpose to deceive us.&quot; But after Hitler's body was burned, it didn't completely incinerate, and there's evidence for that. There's a dental technician's record, a dentist's medical chart. After initially re-burying the bodies of Eva Braun and Hitler, in the '70s, Soviet authorities exhumed, destroyed, burned, and ground them up, keeping part of the jaw for themselves. This jaw fragment is now in Moscow's archives. Later, when Soviet power ended, Americans showed interest in this. They came to Moscow when relations had warmed and raised the question. They conducted a DNA test. Some might wonder, "Wait, but how could they compare it?" Well, not everyone knows this, but Hitler's sister lived and survived WWII. I think the Americans somehow obtained a DNA sample from her for comparison. And they confirmed that the jaw indeed belonged to Hitler. Another intelligence agency, likely stronger at the time--the British-- recorded statements from certain people suggesting they stopped trying to kill Hitler because they thought he was mentally unstable, drugged, and would make Germany's defeat easier. I doubt this is true. Why? If they had indeed stopped, they wouldn't have pursued this possibility until the very end. I have another question regarding this: von Stauffenberg, who placed explosives under the oak table at Wolf's Lair, used British explosives. In short, Operation Valkyrie was one of many attempts to kill Hitler and came closest to succeeding. One of the conspirators, officer Stauffenberg, carried it out. He arrived at Hitler's headquarters in Wolfschanze, placed a briefcase with explosives under the table during a meeting, and left, citing an urgent phone call. But minor details saved Hitler. The meeting was moved from the bunker to a wooden barrack, where the explosion dissipated and wasn't as deadly. Plus, one officer wanted to be closer to Hitler and moved the briefcase further away. As a result, four died, but Hitler was not among them. In 1942, Walter Schellenberg, the head of Germany's political intelligence, secretly visited Himmler. At this meeting, he suggested that Hitler needed to be removed and that Himmler should take his place. This information aligns completely with reality. Though it was said to be secret, the fact is that Schellenberg, an official figure and head of intelligence, did indeed visit the Hegewald headquarters. Literature indicates that plans were in place. There was talk of eliminating Hitler, as intelligent people could see the abyss toward which he was leading the German people. And when he crossed a red line, making it impossible to return or somehow save the situation, Schellenberg, as a thoughtful intelligence officer, understood that after Germany's defeat, the Allies would fully settle accounts with them. This is indeed the case. So, these ideas were in circulation. In 1942, when this proposal was made, did Himmler agree? No, Himmler did not agree. In 1942, practically all Germans still believed that victory would be theirs. Hitler was steadily advancing toward defeat. Some headquarters were fortified, while others, like Werwolf, were destroyed permanently. His general reported that Soviet forces were approaching Werwolf. They were 60 kilometers from Werwolf. They could seize the headquarters and display trophies. Hitler, without deviating from the military map, simply said two words: &quot;Blow it up and burn it.&quot; How was Werwolf actually destroyed? It was done with aerial bombs placed inside the bunkers. Imagine--the main bunker is over there, and a huge slab, weighing at least several tons, flew 90 meters away. They were already mined. While generals still occupied the same quarters that Hitler once lived in, aviation bombs were already stored inside the bunker. Some generals were sitting on a powder keg. That's the issue. It was a simple military calculation: we'll leave the headquarters and then detonate it. But we still needed it for housing. I believe it was just a calculation, not sabotage. Destroyed Werwolf bunkers and destroyed Russian equipment symbolize that sooner or later, the enemies who come here meet the same fate. My name is Serhiy Peychev; this is the Pressing channel. I hope you enjoyed this video. Don't forget to like it and subscribe to our channel because our goal--one million subscribers--is significant, and we need you here. I hope you now know much more about Werwolf, the truth rather than internet myths. In the comments, let me know what similar topic you'd like to see on my channel. I'll try to bring the most interesting idea to life.