This nation's cuisine has been the With names like Toad in a Hole and Spotted Dick, one could argue they're asking for it. The food I'm talking about, of course, is British. Today you will meet a chef setting And he is on a mission. To change the way we think about British food. That chef is Devon's own Kirk Westaway. A man who took over a traditional and threw the menu out the window to create British cuisine in a new light. Welcome back to Singapore. The multicultural capital of Asia. Where 40% of the people come from somewhere else. and there are 4 official languages. All this diversity means Even some of the street food And you can find pretty much Including elevated modern British. We begin here. At the five star Swissotel the Stamford. It was designed by architect IM Pei, who did some of the worlds most iconic buildings. Like the Bank of China Tower in Hong Kong, the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame in Cleveland Ohio and the Pyramid at the Louvre When it was finished in 1986, this hotel was the tallest It's still the biggest in Singapore, but in has shrunk down the There are twelve hundred rooms, many Here, guests are spoiled with 12 And today we are taking you to one of them. Our restaurant for today JAAN by Kirk Westaway. As we ride to the 70th floor, I It doesn't disappoint. Perhaps more exciting than the view, is this. They are official Krug ambassadors. This could be trouble. and I can not wait. We are shown into the restaurant. And are met by the man himself. Chef Kirk Westaway. When he took over in 2015, it was Once at the helm, he wanted to change course. Into new territory. Modern British cuisine. There was just one small problem. He needed the blessing of the hotel. Imagine. Going to the management of A French company. The 6th largest hospitality company in the world. And saying... You know that French Michelin star restaurant I wanna change it. From French to British. Needless to say, It was a tough sell. They were not exactly thrilled at the idea. Because elevated modern British And changing courses would mean a But finally, he got approval. And set out to share his vision Loyal customers were skeptical. But soon, Westaway had them seeing the light. I have been here a few times now. I enjoy this restaurant so much, I find myself wanting to come back. And this time, I decided to bring you with me. We take a peek at just some of the Look at all that liquid sunshine. Katherine, the senior sommelier, And with it, I enjoy the view What a spot they have here. Our first taste of Britain comes as finger foods. Excellent first bites, with a lot of Appetisers are next. The barbeque king crab is made with And the cheddar pancake with The cheddar is famous and from a sea-side county in southwest England. Chef Westaway grew up with and fresh vegetables from the family garden. Two key elements playing a big role in this menu. The crab is nice and light. The citrus gives it fresh burst of flavor. The cheddar ball is deep and rich. With temperatures and the The caviar just adds to it. Perfect balance of light and The final appetiser is charred leek It's warm, creamy and very flavorful. It has smokey, nutty flavor that has a bite to it. Beautiful dish. These appetisers all stand out. Talking with Chef Westaway, I asked how the One theory brings us back to World War II People needed food rations to survive. The rations were low quality As the war went on, food became something The importance of cooking simple, hearty was passed down to the next generation. Of course, Chef Westaway's menu is different. The tasting menu has 5 courses to look forward to. It goes for 265 Euro They do lunch as well for 135 Euro. I've been here twice before, but I know the menu changes with the I can't wait. In the wine department they have a nice selection Nearly 700 different labels Plus some good champagnes of course. It was here I tried Krug 171 for the first time. There are two wine pairing options. 185 and 368 euro. I take them up on the second one. Bread and butter service is next. A sourdough and a puff pastry. I like how the stone is warm to Naturally, the butter is from Devon. Here at JAAN they really draw our attention to it. Watch his technique. Flawless. You can do this at home. All you need is a spoon warmed up with hot water. The first wine is a French It's on the sweeter side to match Soft baked white beetroot with rosemary and thyme. Simple ingredients that pull Great presentation and beautiful flavors here. Look at this view. I could do this all night. My new wine is a 2014 chardonnay from the Sommelier Katherine shared a In 1976, there was a blind tasting California faced off against Burgundy The 1973 Chateau Montelena came out on top. And that's where I am right I'm here in California to try 5 Videos coming soon. Until then, join me on instagram Coming to the table next is Chef himself. After attending Exeter College He gained experience at the two Michelin And at the two Michelin star Greenhouse in London. Here, he met one of his mentors - Julien Royer. Royer would go on to be head chef of In 2015, Royer stepped away to open Odette, leaving big shoes to fill It was also a golden opportunity, and the Awards soon followed. Including a Young Chef award in 2015, That same year, the Michelin and Chef Westaway became a one michelin star chef. In 2018, he launched his Reinventing British menu. It earned Westaway and his team And here he is to present our next course. He tells me this might be Sweet cabbage with langoustine, And a caviar sauce on top. The cabbage is brined, steamed and then barbequed so it has a sweet and sour The sauce was genius as well. This is a clever dish. Next in the pairing is 2019 Chateau-Grillet It goes with this: Wild Seabass. with seared scallop and mussels in a fish and herb sauce. Very tender, gorgeous sauce, excellent dish. Our new wine is a 2012 Grand Beauregard It goes with one of my all-time favorites. Sweetbreads. Despite the name, sweetbreads are not sweet. Not bread either. This term is used for two The thymus, near the throat, and They have a delicate, mild taste If you've never tried them before, trust me. They taste a lot better than they sound. In this dish, they are served with asparagus, Next in the wine pairing, a 1988 Chateau Beychevelle from With it is this: Kagoshima Wagyu beef tenderloin with foie gras and black truffle in a beef reduction sauce. With a salad on the side. Oh my god. So rich. So tasty. Where do I start? Wagyu, foie gras and truffle? This combination is always a win. It's also a win-win situation, I love the atmosphere in this restaurant. A big part of that is the Back in 2022, the restaurant had a total Chef Westaway worked with designers Looking at the before and Like the menu, the new look is elevated. There is something that I cannot take my eyes off. This amazing chandelier. It goes from the floor to the ceiling and is They used Hand-blown Italian Murano Glass from an old chandelier that was It looks really unique. Up next is a beautiful English cheese What would a British menu be without tea? Here we have a tea service with a twist. With citrus, a refreshing A wonderful palette cleanser Our last wine is a Colheita Port dessert wine. This is a 1964 but still tastes fruity and fresh. Talking with the sommelier, And got the chance to really Even better to hear it from her: She brings more than knowledge This is a kind, hard-working sommelier. Desserts are next. This is chocolate and hazelnut cream with It looks amazing and it tastes amazing too. Brilliant presentation for a dessert. Our second dessert is carmelized Vanilla ice cream on the side It is a sugar bomb, but it is delicious. The petit fours see us off. We have apple crumble. Devon cream tea. Lemon meringue. and Coffee Chocolate. Our total for today is I get a photo with all the staff. This is my go to in Singapore. In the restaurant world, anything is possible. A chef can do astonishing win awards, and people can say whatever they want. But what is most important is customers. And customers vote with their feet. There are restaurants that where I have a great time, but still, I don't feel I would go back. JAAN is not one of those places. Whenever I am in Singapore I come back here. Why? It's hard to put my finger on it.. The human connections, the ambiance, the flavors, the music, the vibe. And who knows... and you get the most important star. Good Luck! And that does it for this episode. Thank you for joining me. If you like this video, Hit subscribe. See you next time!