(bright electronic music) - Hey, thanks for stopping by. Chef Billy Parisi here, and we are continuing on in my five that you can hook up at home with this amazing creme brulee. Talk about one of the all-time homemade It translates from French to English literally as burnt cream. It's funny because the It's the sugar on top that you caramelize gets slightly bitter. The texture changes. It gets crunchy, but man, oh, man, the combination of that creamy filling, dude, it is amazing. And the cool part about creme brulee is you can actually sort So I'm not gonna do that in this recipes, but I do wanna give you some tools in case you wanted to change it up. So say you wanted to make a Bailey's or a Kahlua creme brulee. Sounds awesome, right? All you're gonna do is take and replace it with that liqueur. All right, enough of that. Let's get into hooking up this recipe because it's too good not to, my friends. The first thing on the list is prepping up some vanilla beans. Vanilla beans come from It's a sort of long, green pod that you cook in hot for anywhere for two to six months. That's where they become black To prepare them, what you or even if you have a bigger chef's knife, totally cool, too. Put it right in the center and then longways cut them in half. So go down one side, flip it over. Do the exact same to the other and you'll expose all these and that, my friends, is where Lots of flavor in this vanilla bean. You're gonna be amazed Once you've scraped it off, simply add it to a medium sized sauce pot. Here's a quick little trick. Cut the vanilla beans in half, throw 'em in a container, and boom, you've got vanilla What we're gonna do next is add in some heavy whipping cream. This is really gonna be We're going over to the cooktop. We want this to scald on low heat. Guess what, guys. This is fantastic timing because while the cream we're gonna come back over and prepare some of the other things, starting with separating some Now, I did this in that key lime recipe. So you can check it out I'll do it again just in you're checking out. So what you do is crack that egg in half, and then using each shell, and forth, separating the whites so that they fall off into a bowl that is separate from the yolks. Then take that yolk in that half shell and pour it right into a bowl. Now, another way that's a little bit easier, again, I'm gonna wear some gloves or weird anybody out, but you can absolutely do this at home if you're hands are nice and clean. Simply crack the egg. Put it right into your hand, and let all the whites exposing only the yolk. Set it to the side in Boom, you're finished. Like I said, super easy to do it that way, and honestly that's pretty much the way that I did it when I was because ain't nobody got and 100 of 'em. Takes too long. So use the glove method. I promise you'll dig it. Now we're gonna add in some sugar. Just simply whisk this No need to go crazy whisking here because, again, we gotta We gotta cook it. We're not trying to incorporate air or anything like that here. We just wanna mix it until combined. Let's head back over to that cooktop and check out our heavy cream. Scalding is just a weird word. No one really says that anymore. They either say like boil or simmer. When you scald milk, lightly, lightly cooking it. The best way to know when is while you're stirring it, just simply tilt back or forward the pot. You'll see these sort of and collect on the bottom of that pot. That's a perfect scald. You can see that here. See a couple little vanilla We are in good shape. Let's head back over to where that egg and sugar mixture are. Right now, we need to temper the eggs. What you do when you temper eggs is you pour a little and you do this so you don't If you just dumped this in there, bro, you're gonna have scrambled eggs. You might as well get We got breakfast. We don't have dessert anymore, okay? So with this, you add Give it a whisk gently. Don't over-mix here. Once you get those egg then you can add the rest of the cream in. Whisk it very gently. We don't want a ton of bubbles, We want this to incorporate together very, very gently when whisking. Now what we're gonna do 'cause you're gonna have that are weird that you didn't know and then some weird vanilla bean chunks that you had no idea were in there. Dude, we're just gonna strain it out. You should really strain or custard related that you do. So using a chinois, which It's just a fine, fine mesh strainer that's in every restaurant. I promise it's worth if you love making sauces and just have an infatuation I know, dude. It's totally weird, but So strain it into a container. My container is pourable. You see a little spout at the end. If you don't have one of You can simply use a bowl, Once it is strained, that there's a little bit of foam on the top of this custard. We're gonna use a ladle. We're gonna dip it in there and This is gonna create a really funky foam on the top if we bake it, too. So we want as much of that So go ahead and get it out. Now it's time to pour this. I've got some actual like If you don't have these, I Can't help myself. But you can use a regular ramekin. I mean, honestly, you of a coffee mug if you I mean they make creme brulee tarts. So you could use a tart pan totally up to you. Anyways, I've got some ramekins. They're in between like They're perfect for this, single serving. It's great. Gonna put 'em right on a cookie sheet tray or maybe you have sort of a thick cake pan that you've cooked in before. This is great for that, too, because we need to put it in a water bath, but first evenly distribute this batter all throughout the Very delicately head over to your oven. Put 'em on the rack. Be so careful here, okay, guys? Next, add in some warm water. We want to fill it up until it's about halfway up the ramekin. This is perfect. Again, just be so careful here. The reason you cook these in a water bath is because the top is gentle and the water provides It's gonna take in for this creme brulee to finish. When it is done, you just It will sort of like jiggle. Remember Jurassic Park when every time the tyrannosaurus rex walked? It's similar to that, but It's very, very gentle here, okay? It will be firm. Take it out. Be careful. The water is obviously just I don't want you to burn yourself. We're gonna set it to the side. Take each ramekin out. Put it on a cooling rack. Let it sit at 30 minutes Then throw it in the and 90 minutes until and we're gonna come back, So the one thing you will need Do not literally light a torch and try to cook these things. You need one of those handheld torches. There's a ton of 'em online. They're super affordable. Check out the website. I've got a couple links What you do is sprinkle on top of that cooked custard. Try to make it as even as possible. Then, using the torch, hold it in one hand, hold the creme brulee in the other hand, and keep moving the creme brulee around by keeping the torch still, okay? What will happen is once the it'll drip down and start making this a very simple process. This cooks incredibly quickly. It will turn in a second. You don't wanna sit there on one spot because you will char it and you will absolutely So you have to be careful here. Remember, move the creme Keep the torch still in your other hand. Then you get this lightly bitter topping. Oh, man, this is super good. Try not to eat it 'cause And then, to finish off creme brulee, I do this the same for almost I've ever made. I put on a little bit of and if you need to learn how be sure to check out There's nothing like the taste Next, I like to add on Then I top it off with Absolutely gorgeous. This, my friends, is straight from that restaurant looks like in your own kitchen. This is just one of those and it's so, I don't know It's the ones that you But you see how easily you can make this from home from scratch. It's four ingredients. You got this, you guys. And don't forget to Check out the key lime pie recipe and the other dessert recipe. You're absolutely gonna love them, and dude, this is so Mm. (exhaling deeply)