In this video, I'm gonna buy and test the And at the end, Starting with level one. Many Lego builds anyone can make. This is a mini sports car that And this is a Lego imposter from among us. He be looking kinda sus. This is a mini clock. And this is a complete gaming setup. This was just level one. With each additional level, ending with a working Lego rocket. For level ten, Let's bring in Lego expert TD bricks. Let's get building because I just got. A new phone and Legos are So let's build a phone case Dude, this is incredible. I even put a hole where the You're easily able to take this We also have these locking features secures the phone in place. It seems pretty sturdy. Yeah. Shake it. Shake it off, shake it off. What is up, guys? Now we're at the top of a parking garage, Will this Lego phone case survive? All right, you go down to the bottom okay? Yes, sir, I will. Lego phone case versus drop test in three, one. That look insane. Alright, Okay, let's get his reaction. Oh, my God. It's everywhere, bro. Wait, did my phone survive? So we did use a dummy foam, but it's basically made to So if we used a real phone, For level 20, Here we have a Lego crafting bench and Is this actually gonna work? Yeah. So we need two diamonds right here, one right there and one right there. And a stick. Here we go. I'm nervous. Look at that. A real life diamond sword. Now, yours is too small though. Like, we need something bigger like this. This is actually the sword that Let's put this sword to the test. Now we're outside to test the bringing the victims. Ooh, that's a nice melon. Oh, I know. Dinosaur versus cucumber. 3. 2.1. That's so powerful. Look at the damage on the cucumber. It's good. Round two. Freeze. No. Did I hit you. No, you're good. You're good. I'm so sorry. The sword even cut through me. Oh, no. I'm so sorry, bro. Keep going. That thing is built different. 2. 1. This thing just exploded. Look at this. Look at the can. Now it's time for a juicy melon. Oh, our sword completely broke. Look, mom. I'm eating healthy. Subscribe or I'll chop you Now we're building the Okay, so this is a Lego coast guard boat. It has an interior where And it also comes with lots And this boat has my initial on it, I mean, but does it actually float? The entire bottom of the so no water should be Here we go. Here we go. Whatever floats your boat. All right, I'm letting go... Oh, it's floating... Oh, let's splash some waves. Splash some waves and see what happens. Wow, it's blowing with the wind, actually. That's cool. All right, No, I'm actually too small of a person. That's my cannonballs are nothing. That's the problem. We got to step it up a little bit. All right, let's do a tsunami. Uh oh. Onto the next Lego build. For level 40, Okay, so the cool thing about this one is that It's kind of addicting. He's the Lego Steph curry. Dude, this is so fun behind camera. I actually played with this for an hour. Like, I'm not even kidding. Try to pass the ball to that guy. He wants the ball. there's a feature where too. Boom. Oh, you got blocked... How about this? First you, five points gets a Okay, let's go. All right, all right, all right. Here we go. One, two, three, go. Oh, no. Oh, one. One. I got one point. I got two. You better catch up. Three, three. Yo, my guy be missing. Got one. Crap. Oh, four. One more. Crap. I'm on a roll. Here's your money. Make it rain, baby. Make it rain. This is dudeperfect. And we're doing the world's All right, here we go. Hit that subscribe button because basketball shot in Lego. Fist Bump noggin. Now we're at level 50. This is a Lego Batmobile. Now, what makes this one special is that it's actually remote controlled. Try it. Push one of the buttons. That is very cool. There's specialty So that's supposed to be like. It's getting hit by bullets. All right. Oh, that's the wheelie. I did a wheelie. Yeah. It's also got guns on the So to get this thing to actually work, it uses electronic Lego pieces Yo, I didn't know Lego could do this. Yeah, no. Batman's got some fresh looking whips. This is Lego Batmobile test drive. Let's go. No, Batman. Oh, no. The police. He's on our tail. We gotta escape. Oh, Batman just went over that vehicle. Let's go. Oh, no. That's swerve the traffic. Oh, we're escaping. Oh, goodbye. We made it. Now we've escaped. Batman lives to see another day. This is level 60, a Lego Nintendo entertainment So this is the OG Mario game. I played this a lot as a kid. Wait, you're that old? From across the room, The coolest part, it comes with a controller that And what we can do is That's so sick. And then close it and we're ready to play. This tv has a lot of different features. in the very back. You can pull it up, But what's so cool about it? Rotate. Crank it. Let's crank it. Let's crank it. Mario is moving. Oh, get that coin. Wait, wait, wait, wait. The tv has a special interaction There's an NFC piece right here. If we just tap it, it plays real time sound effects All right, let's see this. Let's get that mushroom. What the. Let's step on the shell. He's speedrunning it. Ooh. Bro's a pro gamer. This is honestly one of the But we have even cooler builds. Coming up next. This is level 70, the Millennium Falcon. It is the world's most expensive Lego set. This thing costed $850, And someone actually How long did it take Dude, you're up there. So tell me about it. Like, what are the features of this set? This one took me 15. There's detail all around it. There's some really cool, And there's even parts that, come off. Like, you can actually. Oh, that's a cockpit. Oh, and the steering wheel spins. Yeah, that's the cockpit. Yeah, the steering wheel spins. This thing's also got an interior. It's small, though, honestly. That's cool. I mean, but, there's not that many playable features. Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa. Stop, stop. What is. Oh, my gosh. It's gonna break. I personally prefer the Okay. The thing is, so the only people that like, So it's basically just meant Unlike our next set, this is level 80. It's a massive, Tell me a little bit about it. So, this took me a full week to build. I included a superhero There's also a large apartment building as well as a bank for them As well as a park. And I even included a metro system And most importantly, there's a massive daily bugle building, which is featured in a lot And there's four separate And of course, So, obviously, there's a lot of them. And there's even some evil Hey, look. It's Spider man. Since this is a superhero city, we gotta see how well they And I know the ultimate villain. Next. This superhero city will The Lego people are No freaking way. Some of the minifigs Spider man still survived. This is level 90, a working Lego grand piano. We spent the entire last week And it was worth every single hour Every single key works on this piano. The detail on this Lego The lid fully opens up. You can place your sheet music there. Once we open up the lid of the piano, They also have a piano stool so you're able to raise the height I'm over 6ft, And I'm five foot ten, Also, there is a sustained pedal at the an echoey effect when you play. The coolest part about this set, it actually plays like a real piano. If we open up the inner you can see that there is a working to your phone via bluetooth. And we're able to actually play music using this piano. No way. that's crazy. Since there's a motor inside, That's so cool. They have any Drake songs on it? This set has just blown my mind But as cool as this piano is, it still doesn't compare The level 100 working Lego rocket. This is a Lego rocket, We're gonna try to launch But let's talk about the details first. Okay. This is actually a modified version The original Lego set was way so we modified this and hollowed That's enough talking. Let's go try to launch this. All right, it's launch time. This is a grand finale, bro. Let's go. All right, here we go. What's going on? I'm a little scared, bro. Are you ready? Okay. Oh, crap. Wait for it. Wait for it. For real?.. No. What is wrong with it? No. Oh, no. The base is collapsing. We tried every way to launch but it wouldn't even lift a brick. And unfortunately, After I got back, I spent weeks contacting local Lego rocket into space. And eventually, the Met rocketry team agreed to help. Together, we made a few important changes I'll let the pros explain. After entire weeks of work, we are finally done And it's all thanks to who are actual rocket engineers Ford America competition. So, what kind of changes did So, we 3d printed an extension That will raise the center And now this one. This part is removed so Another thing is that we fins. So now it has more which is something that What kind of motor do we have in here? So we have an f class motor, which can produce roughly For context, that can go about 300ft. 300Ft is about 30 story building. Yeah, somewhere around there. So after a whole entire week of building, Lego rocket. Subscribe because no one else In 54321. The parachute did not go. I know. Well, that's for sure. It looked awesome. I really love how it looks like it's pretty much like the So this was supposed to be our parachute. Why do you think the My assumption, maybe it wasn't fully sealed because the So what was supposed to happen is, inside there was supposedly, build up pressure as they exploded. And it's supposed to push this parachute out like that? Well, go check out TD Brick's channel. Also go watch more videos in