This time, we asked to photograph a young man who studied under Kenichi Shiraki, the master of a blacksmith factory in Sakai, Osaka, who produces the knives used by various chefs, and who has inherited his techniques and factory.He works with a variety of knives. Blacksmiths create knives with unique patterns that are said to be the only ones in Japan (or the world) using the steel materials they use and the high level of processing technology.Watch a video that closely follows the process of making knives over several days by professionals who are attracting attention from all over the world. Mr. Satoshi Nakagawa, who is attracting attention from chefs in Japan, is the youngest person to receive the qualification of a traditional craftsman.There are many regions around the country where knives are made, including Seki City (Gifu), Takefu (Fukui), and Tosa (Kochi). There are Sanjo (Niigata) and Sakai (Osaka), but Sakai is divided into four areas: blacksmiths, sharpener wholesalers, and handlers, and knives are made using a regional integrated production system with division of labor. In some areas, knives in Sakai are produced by a division of labor.I am a blacksmith, and each person has specialized production techniques in each field , and each individual refines their skills as a specialist.The appeal of Sakai knives is that they are produced by a division of labor. One of the features of Mr. Nakagawa's knives is that he is able to create a wave pattern on the knife by using advanced technology to create a wave-shaped pattern on the knife by laminating the base metal and steel together using a firepower of 1300 degrees Celsius. A machine that polishes black objects (commonly known as Beto) by spraying them with metal beads. Rough beating, breaking in, beating , mold cutting, rubbing , engraving , gusset polishing, mud coating. This is the process before hardening of the knife. The process of heating the hardened knife to around 780 and cooling it all at once in a water tank. If the temperature is too high, the knife will easily chip, and if the temperature is too low, it will lose its sharpness. This is an extremely important and difficult process . A process that requires experience and skillMatsu charcoalMatsu charcoal, which is ordered from the Tohoku region, is a charcoal used to heat cutlery such as swords and kitchen knives.It is placed in a water tank to lower the temperature at once. It is said that the previous master blacksmiths learned the techniques by spending less time making knives and finishing them quickly, which enabled them to make more knives than other blacksmiths. makes about 200 knives a month , while Nakagawa Uchihamono can make 800 knives a month.Most of the knives they make are orders from overseas chefs.Japanese Cuisine Around the World Due to the increase in the number of Japanese chefs, the number of Japanese chefs that used to be around 50,000 has now increased many times, and the number of chefs seeking Japanese knives has increased, and orders are now being received from all over the world. When quenching , the heat may cause it to warp or bend. After quenching, the material is pounded to remove distortion. After quenching , a process called ``tempering'' is performed. By mass -tempering and tempering, the knife is not only hard but also sticky, resulting in a knife that has hardness and stickiness.Knife making in Sakai, Osaka, is made using a division of labor system, and this knife was made by a blacksmith. The process is completed in the following order: sharpening, attaching the handle, and then the wholesaler.This time , I would like to introduce you to the blacksmithing process that goes into making a knife.Currently , I am planning to take photos of the sharpening, attaching the handle, and the wholesaler. On this occasion, we would like to introduce the second half of the process of making a knife. Please see the overview section for information on &quot;Nakagawa Uchihamono&quot;, which we cooperated with in the photo shoot this time.