Hello, it's Mamiko from GOROGORO KITCHEN. It's been a cold day in the suburbs of Paris. It's the season when you start to miss a nice hot cup of tea. We received this delicious tea from Kobbs as a souvenir from Sweden. When I slowly brew the leaves, it makes me feel relaxed. The cats have changed into their fluffy winter coats. Kurumi especially needs to be brushed, but she doesn't like it very much... Instead, Tola wants to do it for him . Let's brush Yuzu too. I used to skip breakfast, but recently I've been making sure to eat a good breakfast. -I'm home! -I bought a bread. Here you go. Oh, he bought some delicious-looking brioche Let's put a little butter on it... I reheated the vegetable soup I made last night. I added melted cheese and plenty of pepper. &quot;Let's eat!&quot; Let's have some Chaource cheese with it. It's delicious when eaten with homemade apple jam Before I knew it, the area under the new shelf was a place for Kurumi to sleep... The package I've been waiting for has finally arrived. Today, I'm going to try renovating the kitchen. Which colour sticker sheet should I choose for the counter? The gold handles for the cupboards look better. First, I start with the cleaning. I wipe the whole counter down with vinegar. Next, I spray it with baking soda and wipe all off. Let's clean up the rest of the places too. For the countertop, I chose a white-grey marble-style sheet. Since it is a removable sheet, it is safe even when renting. I stick it on carefully so that no air gets in... I surprisingly like doing mindless tasks like this. After that, I continued working quietly... I'm definitely better at detailed work, so I asked Tsu-san to take the video . Alright! I put the kitchen tools back in their original places. Let's have a lunch break. First, I make the soup stock. Today's lunch is udon noodles with seafood stick &amp; egg. Today's lunch is udon noodles with seafood stick &amp; egg. Today's lunch is udon noodles with seafood stick &amp; egg. Today's lunch is udon noodles with seafood stick &amp; egg. Surimi (seafood sticks) are a standard ingredient in France too. Cut it into bite-sized pieces, and then cut the leeks into rounds. Add the seafood sticks, frozen Chinese chives, and minced ginger to the dashi soup, and add dissolved potato starch to thicken the soup. Quickly boil the frozen udon noodles, drain them, and re-heat them in boiling water. Add beaten egg to the soup. When it has cooked through, it's done. Pour the soup into a bowl with the udon noodles, and top with leeks. Well, let's eat! Thank you for the meal. Do you want some? Looks delicious! Now, let's get started on changing the handles on the cupboard. It was easier than I thought, and I was a little surprised. It ended up looking like this! What do you think? And the new cat tree, which the cats have been waiting for (?!) has arrived. Kurumi, who loves new things, gives it a check. Tola immediately takes over the top board. Yuzu, who has recently been taken off the lead, also seems interested. The final touch to the day's renovation is to hang the paintings. First, I check the positioning when hanging it on the wall. The walls are very hard and it seems difficult to hammer in nails, so we decide to use adhesive strip. This strip can withstand a load of up to 7.2kg, so it should be okay. I stick it to the surface wiped with alcohol. It looks a little tilted...? I'll need to make some adjustments... Well, it's time for dinner. Today's menu is quick pan-fried chicken curry. Cut two onions into horizontal wedges. Heat a frying pan over a medium heat, add 1 tablespoon of oil and the onions. Stir-fry them until translucent, then add 1 teaspoon minced ginger and garlic each, and fry some more. Add 3 tablespoons of curry powder, fry together, then move the onions to the edge of the pan. Add 500g of chicken thighs for curry in the space, skin side down. When they have browned, turn them over. If there is a lot of fat, wipe it off lightly with a paper towel. When the other side has browned too, mix everything together. Add 1 can of chopped tomatoes, 2 tablespoons of white wine (rinse the tomatoes can with it), and 250ml of coconut milk, and lightly simmer. While the curry is cooking, prepare the side dishes. First, let's make the watercress with sesame paste. Wash the watercress in water, then quickly boil it in boiling water. Cut them into bite-sized pieces. Add the carrot strips, maple syrup, dashi soy sauce ground sesame, and mix together. Let's also serve the pickled turnips with yuzu and sweet vinegar that I made yesterday. For the curry, add 1 teaspoon of soy sauce, 1 teaspoon of honey and 1/2 teaspoon of salt to adjust the flavour, and it's ready. The rice is also cooked! I always add binchotan charcoal to the rice to make it more delicious. Finally, garnish with coriander. Now, let's get to the table! -Here you go. Alright... Oh, looks delicious. It's curry. Yes, it's curry. What's this? This is watercress and carrots with sesame sauce. And pickled turnips in sweet vinegar. -Well then, let's dig in. Let's eat! Thank you, even though you're busy. -Cheers! Does curry go with white wine? Well, I prefer this for everything. Ah, it's everyday style. Well, it's not just white wine, it's sparkling wine. Oh, that kind. -You always like that, don't you? Go ahead, have some curry. -I'll start with the curry. Because I can't wait. Yes, you really love curry, don't you? I love curry. Is it alright? No doubt about it. Glad to hear that. What's the highlight today? The highlight today? I am interviewing you. I kept it as simple as possible. -That's important. You know, I used to spend hours simmering meats and so on, but now I thought it's fine without it. Well, it still tastes amazing. If it's something like beef shank, it needs to be simmered. So I used to simmer chicken too, and then I realised, you don't really need to simmer chicken. I felt free from the simmering rule. So until now, you have been bound by the rules of stewing. I had this image that if you spend time on it, everything turns out delicious. -It depends on the dish. This watercress dish is also tasty. I thought it would be a bit more bitter. Watercress loses its bitterness when you boil it. -Oh, really? Don't you think so? Yes, if you didn't mention it, it's hard to tell it from spinach. I think most people wouldn't notice. No, I don't think that's true. But if it's a dad reading the newspaper while eating, he might not notice it's not spinach. And I really love this dish with daikon. It's turnip. Turnip... Yes, turnip. I never thought I liked turnip before, but I like this dish. Haven't you had Shogoin Daikon before? What's that? It's a type of turnip from Kyoto. Kyoto turnips are huge, like this big. And they use them to make sweet sour pickles. Oh, but I'm not really the Kyoto type, you know? But it gives that kind of sweet, delicious turnip flavour. It's really delicious. So, this dish is kind of copying that. -I see. You know, when I eat this curry, I feel so relieved. It really feels like home. -Oh, really? Whenever I had take-away curry for lunch while working in Japan, I always thought, 'Oh, curry again.' I'm talking about homemade curry, not the take-away one. When I get home and ask what's for dinner, I feel relieved hearing 'curry', especially on a cold day. Or when I still have to go out again for shooting at night... Ah, I see. It makes me feel all warm inside. By the way, I think that kitchen turned out better than I expected. Mamiko's craftsmanship was really impressive. Really? Yes, your expression was totally that of a craftsman. Well... I enjoy that kind of task where you just immerse yourself in it. It's like cooking, right? Like &quot;just drawing a straight line without thinking...&quot; I like that kind of task. Maybe it's your father's genes, Mamiko. Your dad can keep doing exercises for an hour every day if he's told to. But the dexterity part, that definitely comes from my mom. When I was a child, she used to weave every night. Like the crane from a traditional story! She'd make all sorts of things with clatter sounds. Oh, really? She had also made a woven textile of this size, like a single painting. It's kind of a waste. You're so good at sewing and all these delicate tasks. But if you say that, I could have become an athlete, people say. Well, but at this age, that's kind of tough. The thing is, I can do almost anything decently. But I can't master any of it. Because you get bored quickly, right? I get bored quickly. But it's a good thing, really. Humm.... But it really turned out great. At first, I was worried if it would be okay when you started putting it up. About what? I thought it might end up looking kind of cheap. -Oh, that. Because it had a glossy finish. Really? I didn't think that at all. I thought, &quot;this is great&quot;. I wonder what caused that difference between us. At first, Tsu-san seemed kind of low-energy, but after I finished putting it up, you were all excited. I was wondering why. I could see how it would turn out from the start. I wonder... Why did you think it wouldn't turn out well? I thought it might end up looking too much like a print. But honestly, you can hardly tell. Until you pointed it out, you wouldn't notice at a glance. If you look closely, you can tell it's not real marble, but you can hardly tell the difference. Actually, I had the real marble. Even if I compare them, the difference is barely noticeable. I thought it was amazing. And it's sturdier than I expected. Yes, exactly. I'm glad we found out about that product. Yes. I didn't expect it to turn out that well. But depending on the material, I think the adhesive strength might vary. I've seen comments from people saying it didn't work out and they were really frustrated. Well, I think if I had done it, it wouldn't have turned out as well. I can't even put a screen protector on my phone without getting air bubbles, so if someone like me tried it, it would probably be a mess, and they end up saying, &quot;What is this!?&quot; Is that so? Even the new cat tree, unexpectedly, everyone's using it. I knew they would. That's not fair! It makes it seem like I had no idea about anything. I told you from the beginning that this one would be good, but you said, &quot;they'll probably just use the top level only, and they won't use anything else.&quot; Well, Yes, that's what I thought at first, but surprisingly... I'm really happy that Kurumi loves it so much. -Kurumi prefers being on the lower levels. As she likes to hide in dark spaces when she's scared, she prefers enclosed areas. Yes, she does. So, this is probably the best for her. It makes her feel safe. Technically, three of them could use it at once though. The problem is Yuzu. Why does she keep picking fight with Tola? I know. Why is that? I don't get it either. Yuzu is constantly stalking Tola. And now Tola is scared of Yuzu, so he runs away as soon as he sees her. I think it makes Yuzu see him more as prey because of that. But it is said that cats that dislike each other will never be in the same space. However, our cats are often in the same space during the day. Yes, true. But then, at a certain point, Yuzu flips a switch and starts chasing Tola. I think Yuzu just wants to play. No cat plays with its fur standing on end and its tail puffed up. Well, I can understand how Yuzu feels. They don't get along very well. But at least they can be together in the same room now. Yes, we don't even need to put her on leash anymore. And we don't have to separate their rooms, so that's a big step forward. You know, there was a time when I had a naive dream that Tola and Yuzu would become a couple. That was silly. You had no foresight. Tsu-san has poor foresight. Well, because Tsu-san has a poor sense of direction. Can't figure out directions, right? I think it's in my blood. I think that sense of direction is also inherited. I don't get it at all. It's something passed down. Because my mom has no sense of direction. -I have no trouble with directions at all. When I was a child, I used to ride my bike with my friends and go for rides to places far away, like Shibuya. That's impressive. And I could get home without looking at a map. Really? I'd just go, "this way," on instinct. That's amazing. That's what I used to do. So, because I'm so confident in my poor sense of direction, when I need to choose a path, I go the opposite way of what I think might be right. But because I look so confident, people just follow me. Because you go ahead rapidly. You sometimes say, "do you know the way?" Because you go without asking. But I don't think you understand it anymore. You go ahead without understanding, and I don't always think about what I'm doing, so sometimes I get dragged along. But on the way, I remember that I can't rely on Tsu-san, so I ask if this is okay, and you say, 'What? I don't know.' I just feel like I'm following others. That's totally wrong! I'm following Mamiko. I'm the one behind, so how can you be the one following? Well, I thought Mamiko knew the way, so I thought I was following you. But then, I realised, 'am I the one being followed?'. Why would you think that when you are leading? I never meant to lead. I thought I was behind too. Did you see my back? You didn't see it, right? -I don't know... I follow Mamiko from now on. I don't get it. Why don't you understand the way? Okay, well then, let's... Thank you for the meal.