(cheering) - Like this, I hope this This is what I'm hoping. - I have to say, he won't go out to a restaurant. We've been dressing like and I'm kind of in love with it. And I'm just like, take - Can you imagine? That'd be amazing. You look, it kind of looks like the cover of a Rihanna thing. Like, yeah. - Oh my gosh. - [Kelly] I feel like she would do this. - Words that have never (laughing) - Me neither. Like, you look amazing. - Thank you. - I do find it funny, - It's a podcast. - [Kelly] Do they see you? - Nope. - No. I love you. - I mean, it's, I know he was like, I, I think you may not be And I was like, no, I get it, I get it, I get it. But uh I, to get into character, I loves me a, a costume. - Yes. - [Melissa] And so then I just was like, I'm just gonna get like a hat, something quick to put oh a cloaks pretty easy to put on. And then this started happening. I was like, this feels right. - [Kelly] A dragon spark. - [Ben] Yeah. She's like, I'm like, I don't know. (laughing) - It's amazing and the Kiss boots to go along with it, they're pretty great. (cheering) Those are amazing. So... - I'm almost like five-five in these. - That's why I know, oh you're tall, I'm like, I'm lying. - [Melissa] I know. - It's not five-three, yeah. - Our ankles down are lies. - It lies. But I don't like a stiletto. I like a platform. - I do too. - That's easier. But explain the podcast for everyone. - What's out of his brain and our friend Steve Mallory's brains that we've written movies with - Yeah. I mean, when everybody else I was playing Dungeons and Dragons. So this is a world, you know, Tolkien and those sort of fantasy books and all that stuff was And my, my friend Steve Mallory usually you don't see in and those stories is women And I was like oh, true. That's totally true. So we came up with the idea of She works in a tavern, and.. - Which I can't own, 'cause So my, in the story, not in life, my very, very dumb but doesn't do anything. So I have to do all the work. And then when the, when to be destroyed in this lake of fire, I have to actually go - [Ben] Yeah. - Yes. - I know. I find it very empowering. - She grabs a group of who basically have to fix everything after the men mess it all up. - So your, your daughters - Yes. We, uh.. - It's hard to get your kids Is that hard for you? - It takes a lot. Like this. I did walk past in a full costume and it was literally just And I'm like, I'm, I'm nothing? - Nothing? She didn't say a word? - They're like, they - No. - But they, Viv and Georgie - Yeah. - And they're, this is like blue bald creatures that speak to us. And they both came in and just and were so bizarre. And I was like, oh, this is wonderful. - Yeah. They fit right in. - Oh yeah. - [Kelly] Isn't that kind of cool? 'Cause okay, we have, and it's so cool to see them that you're into and then excel at it. You're like, that's amazing. - And just to do it and to do something so weird, which I really loved. And they weren't, they weren't - [Kelly] That's I saying they leaned in. - Yeah. - I was like, yeah, be here. Do whatever. Any weird thing you brought And then it was. - Yeah. - [Kelly] I love that. - I know. - [Kelly] Okay, I have to bring this up because I'm about to just totally binge it because I'm about to have for like two days. - Oh, wow. - [Kelly] And I haven't seen any of the new Only Murders in the Building. But I hear you're in it and I hear you got in a fight with Meryl Streep. I'm so excited. I haven't seen it. I'm about to see it this - It was, the entire thing - Yeah. - Like, first of all, when you see how many people are in the show, I did. - [Kelly] The cast is insane. - It's, it seems like a joke. It seems like, well, clearly And then when it's like, then you and Meryl are gonna fight, I was like.. Just working with her, I was already like, I and like, go, go home after this. - [Kelly] Yeah. - And then they were like, tap each other. And I, Meryl and I just and we're like, well, And she's like, I'm, you're gonna go down. (laughing) I was like, bring it Streep. And then the next thing, I was violently shoving her over a couch. And we did all of it. Also, she moves like a bobcat. (laughing) Like she caught wind at one point and came down on top of me. And I literally was like, She's in the air. - She's a flying squirrel. - And then she landed on this is the greatest moment of my life. - [Kelly] So I, it's awesome, by the way, just having this conversation with you, with a dragon on your shoulder. - And she's talking about like, guys, what are we - [Kelly] Let's talk So you, we talked about this last time. You, you get ideas from like characters from people watching. - Yeah. - [Kelly] Do you still do that? Especially for this podcast? - I love people and I, I am a, like, my sporting event is people watching. And not being like, oh, they're strange. Like somebody who, like, if this person was walking down (clapping) like I just love I love who they are. - Yeah. - I love people that walk like dance and walk to their own beat. And it's really, it inspires me. - [Kelly] Yeah. - My, my therapy every to Big Lots, which now is closed. I don't know what to do. - They took it away. - They took it away from me, and so.. - [Ben] But also it's good she would go too far. She would start to follow - Lovingly, lovingly. - Lovingly. That's what every stalker says. - She'd just be like.. and I'd be like, honey, you can't do that. You gotta come back. And she'd be like, but what? Where? - Cause I'm like, she's She's in all purple and I I'm gonna go see it. And he's like, you are Do I get in trouble? And I, one time I was like, I just wanna see the second place she goes and he goes, you are not allowed to follow someone in your car. - [Kelly] The second place she goes. - And then I realized, I - [Kelly] There's a line. There's a line. Okay, well let's pay the bills and do some commercials, y'all. I'm passing it over to Abby. - Hi Kelly. I am so excited to see Melissa and Ben on the show and hear I have a podcast with my dad about history and current events. It's so fun to team up when and chemistry with someone. Melissa and Ben, you're both hysterical, so I can't wait to hear your show. Stay here, Kelly has more - We're back with Melissa (cheering) Congratulations, by the way, And he's still whipping That was amazing. - That I made him wear. Yeah, 19 years. That's kind of amazing. - It's great. - Is this the secret? Just humor, like, what's the secret? - I do think it, like, he makes me like crazy, crazy belly laugh. Probably three, four times a day. - [Kelly] Yeah. - [Melissa] I mean, that's a, oh my God. - [Kelly] Look at you. - [Melissa] Babies. And holding our childhood. - [Ben] Yep. (laughing) So how, how well do you after 19 years? How, how well? - I mean, pretty well. but it seems like a.. - [Kelly] Well, it's - Oh no. - [Kelly] As a test, as a test, how about we ask you and you answer at the same - [Melissa] Okay. - [Kelly] All right, okay. What's Melissa's favorite vacation spot? Three, two, one. - New York. - Oh yes, yeah but he's right, he's right, he's right though. But I didn't say it right. - [Kelly] But you didn't say it, did you? What's the most, what's the Three, two, one. - He slows down when we need to.. - Leaves the house too slowly. - Yes. When we need to leave - [Kelly] No. - [Melissa] It's maddening. And he denied it for 18 years. And last year he finally - Yeah. - It took 18 years. And he is like, because I So I try to calm myself, but I'm like, we've gotta go cause I hate.. - [Kelly] Wrap it up. - Yeah. He starts to like, go backwards. - [Kelly] Yeah. Are you bad with time management? Cause that's my thing. I, I don't like to be late or anything. I like to be, and I don't but I just, I, I'm bad - Yeah, I think getting out the - You don't like, because and he's really mellow. So me doing this makes him nervous and then he gets slower. And then it makes me go, come on. - [Kelly] Come on guys. - So I'm revving up as he's going down and our kids are like, just stop. - Okay. Who is more Three, two, one. - McCarthy. Lovingly. - Yeah. - Do you do it on, or do - No, I'm like a whirling.. - [Kelly] My daughter does this and I'm so cold. When they, when I allow them to sleep with me, it, she steals them and then I wake up shivering. - Yep. - But then I'm hot and then But I've done it. And then I throw it all on him and he.. - And then I'm like, wow, I'm so hot. Where did these, where did - Instead of here, take Dumb and Dumber. (laughing) So, okay. Seriously speaking, 19 years is a long time of supporting one another so, what's been a favorite moment with Ben? - I mean, there's a lot of 'em, but I mean, I remember the day I met him, but the day we brought home our first, I almost said our first Our, Vivian our oldest daughter. And I had been a, a nanny for - Yeah. - [Melissa] But when we got and any parent will know this feeling, you're there with the baby. And I just remember, I was like, we can't just leave with the baby. We can't just get in the car and leave. It's like, we're stealing And we both were.. - Are they trusting us with this? Yeah. - That's what I said. And I'm like, well, you know babies, you've been around 'em and Ben was like, what do we? Oh my, and we both were And we drove home and you drove home I think all the way home. And I just kept turning around and I was like, there's - [Kelly] It's ours. - Because all that time you're pregnant. But then all of a sudden, and you're like, I can't, It felt like we were stealing a baby. - Yeah, aww. - But it was a good of looked at each other - Yeah. I offered no help or - What's been been, what's been a favorite moment for you with Melissa? - Well, so many, so many. But not too long ago, But during COVID remember when we were all Chloroxing grapefruits? I believe that's what she was doing. And there's a.. - And propagating celery. - [Ben] Yes. And a Steely Dan song came on. - Oh my God. - And it's, they got a name for the winners in the world. I want a name when I lose is And I remember she just flipped out and she goes, there is a They're called losers. And she, she started to just absolutely freak out in the kitchen. And I've never laughed so hard. I have never laughed so hard in my life. And it helped me, I swear, you know, it was a stressful time I felt like, I was like, oh, 'Cause she's screaming at Steely Dan. - Okay. See, I thought different with the story. Like, you were like, I made sour bread and we did all these fun things. I interviewed people during that time and I was like, my life is falling apart, I'm glad you're into Legos. Like, it's like, I was like, cool. - Into Legos. - [Kelly] Yeah. It was great. So for this podcast, you had Which is hard to ask friends - Yeah. - It, it is. Because especially when it's like, it's just kind of us doing it. - Yeah. - And it's not on the same - We don't have things - We're like - [Kelly] Friendship. - I built our own like and like with staple guns and all this. I'm like, would you like and hopefully not have And then all these people actually were doing it, - [Kelly] Like amazing people. - Yeah. - Octavia Spencer, Glenn Close, - Allison Janney plays a dragon. - I mean, why not? - [Kelly] Joel McHale, was he one as well? - Joel McHale, Jim Rash, Mike Hitchcock. It's just, it's kind of crazy. Annie Mumolo. It's just like every time they're so crazy funny and good. - Yeah. - [Melissa] And it just and they would improvise and just make, it's already like a But then you have all these that are just stone cold weirdos. - And I say that it's a great.. - [Kelly] But amazing actors - And amazing, I say that as a compliment and they just bring a and then start improvising and We were just blown away. - And speaking of, I mean, - [Kelly] Yes. - [Melissa] We're friendly. - Yes, we're neighbors. - We're neighbors. - True. - So if you're up for it, we thought maybe you could (applause) - We have a dream. We have a dream for season two. - We have a dream for season two. - Did you see From Justin to Kelly? (laughing) That's my audition tape. I'll leave it there, okay? Okay, what are you doing? What do you have? Is this for me? - There we go, there we go. - Like in, in least as far as I think, I think it helps when you - Oh and I'm in costume, okay, okay. - It feels right. - Feels right, feels good. - Do you need you me to do your toggle? - Uh fine. Is that what it's called? - That's what I'm - Oh my gosh. She looks great in that. - Am I, oh, I'm.. There's your, your piece to read. - These are my sides. - Those are your sides - Those are your sides that you've never.. - Okay. Kelly as eagle rider. - Yes, you will be the - I dunno if I'm supposed to say that. - Yep. - Okay, okay, okay. I am, I am, I am a My mother was half eagle and my father, (laughing) my father was a whale. And as my, and as my blood enemy, Glengarian of Glen Dahlia, But first I shall sing you the song of I shall sing you the song of death. There are no words to my song. (barbarian music) (laughing) And you're, and you can't Oh it says vocal run. - Yeah you just have do a vocal run. - Oh, go it again. (barbarian music) Oh, yeah yeah. Ohh, yeah yeah. (cheering) - Oh my gosh. Hired. (cheering) Hired. - That felt right. - [Ben] That felt right. - [Melissa] That felt right. - Okay. - That felt right. - My song of death. Oh, I get a crown. - Now there's, there's three. We want you to have for multiple parts and - Okay. I like this one, I like this. Oh, I like this, oh my God I - So this would be, you're an evil member of The Cult of Tears. - As you do. - Yes, I am. Every member of our scred. Okay. (laughing) Every member of our scred the tears of our enemies, and sometimes the tears of our friends if they've had a bad day. Whatever, you get it. But now, oh, (laughing) but now Grandelaphor, you must die. But, where am I? And now I shall sing you There are no words. (jazz music) Oh, yay, yeah. Ohh, yeah yeah. Oh, yeah yeah. Ohh, yeah yeah. I wasn't done (beep) (jazz music) I wasn't done! - Take it away. (laughing) - There's a reason why and not an actor. I have an ax! - This seems right. - Yeah this is good. - And a leaf blower, okay. - It just seems - Okay. - Oh my God. - So this is an, a horrible necromancer. - I'm gonna do one thing. - Okay, do it. You gotta bring it out, It's not attached so you have to, or it's kind of attached, it's mine. - I bought all of it that you're wearing. - We have the Beyonce blow, okay. - This is how the professionals do it. - [Kelly] Okay. This is audition three. Kelly is horrible necromancer. Sure, okay. What's a necro, what is that? - Like a sorcerer, kind - Yeah. - Not necrophilia, but like, that's different, that's different. - [Kelly] Actually, I'm gonna go method. I'm kidding. Okay, okay, here we go, okay. I, wind. - [Melissa] Now? - Yes. (laughing) I mean it. Okay, okay. I'm the necromancer, known simply as Glimmeranian Glitter which is of course the And you (inaudible) you must die as I sing And once again, there are no words. Ahhh, ah. (laughing) Ahhh, ah. Ahh, ah. Ahh, ah. - Oh no. Ahhh, ah. - Now I'm Rihanna. - Now you're Rihanna. - Now I'm Rihanna. You can't have my crown. - I won't take it, I won't take it. - You can't have my crown. Which part did I get? - All three of them. All of all three of them. - All of 'em. - We're going shuffle.. (cheering) Let's take a break. Oh, this looks incredible. This is gonna, I'm not but this will be, and my, my my mating call. (shrieks) We've, who knows who will - I'll tell you what, there's that's like, all right. - [Kelly] That are also into it.