This video is sponsored by LEGO Insiders Club. Welcome to Spronkington. but very soon this will be the weird and about building for years. I'm gonna build the transport infrastructure, suspension bridge, and loads more. so let's begin with the train station. It's pretty big, city's grand centrepiece, which means this might take a while. but soon Spronkington Central was complete, Does it come with a LEGO frog?! and I'm gonna try and include one Anyway, the whole station is incredibly beige, so I added some colourful details, telephone box, hanging baskets, as well as chimneys and a weather vane. On the back I built a stripy awning, So this is great, but... the passengers are gonna be down here, so I'm gonna have to raise the It was annoying but easy enough to do, I used these yellow pieces for the warning line, a pair of benches, before tiling the whole thing. plate pieces so I can... sorry, Bella's distracting me, I've built these little train I'm struggling to do this one-handedly. Come on. come on, mind out. There we go! I'm not gonna do any interiors in this video, it was finished. bridge for the train to run across. I quickly built the sides of the first tower. but then the other two I've which gives the whole thing I then built the roof, and copy and pasted it. I simply used train track pieces, and these lattice fence Finally I made the cables from these little clips, Ok, this is massive! It's not actually gonna go here, Spanning the gap between the two tables, I attached it to a piece of wood, and voila. I'm not even mad that I'm gonna have Also, I've used these kind of ramp erm, so the train track isn't and this means that if I do it's gonna be pretty easy. there's a gradual incline going and round the other side. I think it's time to run the train. become the first passenger, this video's sponsor, a new members club for kids. it's easy to sign up, and is full of inspirational Let's use the Avatar Builder for instance, Members express their creativity, however you're feeling that day. messy hair, and a video camera, Once you've built your avatar, LEGO fans on the LEGO Play App. I'll be able to see what you've created, including some exclusive sneak So if this video's inspired you to get building, link in the description, There'll be loads more about both Builder in my next LEGO city video. you can't actually pull your I made this from pieces I had already, Except the train didn't fit. I should probably have check that. this time using a slightly narrower train. It works! With that finally done, something wildly different. and if you combine multiple splat they all spin. and I'm gonna use them to make If I attach a bike to one the bike moves in a circle, Check this out, and watch what happens when I spin the gears. I love the way the circles overlap, seriously I could watch it for hours. and decorated the rest like a forest trail. I do plan on building a whole woodland area, so for now, but I just wanted to get the mechanism done Ralph seemed to like it, Anyway, next I want to build There's gonna be two tube stations, well as an underground platform. I built this dark red tiled building, I'm gonna name it Brimblecot Green. although I use the word 'designed' loosely, For the platform, coming up with this incredibly fiddly hinge I am really proud of this, how call is that curve? funny or the whole thing will fall apart. Does it come with a LEGO frog?! The second station was inspired by and thanks to its diagonal wall, Here she comes. she's now having some of her favourite treats. and I'm gonna call this station Tapirstomp Wells. with basic vertical walls, display screens, and a busker, I think he's singing something... Yep, we're still doing that, friend to arrive from Brimblecot Green. she's pushed it all the way to the edge, Where was I? I need to now build a sort of shelf under It's gonna be a giant U-shape, with turning loops at either end. screwed it into position, So I've actually swapped it round so you've the loop of track behind it, over to Tapirstomp Wells, obsessed with for some reason. how cool is this? The last thing was the tube train itself, But something I didn't tell you in that video was Oh and again if you as much as looked at it, Instead I heavily modified this design. and doesn't it just look so I love it so much. Eventually all the edges will be so it'll all look a lot tidier and you won't I've also got a ton of storage so the curtains will hide that too. I'm not gonna build a river or any roads just yet, as I add the buildings, of official LEGO set vehicles, to build everything coming in the next video. there's a link in the description