[narrator] Summer, 1492. After three months at sea, the Santa Maria, the Pinta Europe has discovered the Americas. What happens next? Conquest and colonization by settlers who remake America in their image. They advanced, and destroyed. But there is another story, about the animals and plants [rumbling] And what they found here. And how the Americas It all began 500 years ago. [narrator] Christopher Columbus to fight for his vision. He aimed to sail west, This is an era of discovery and it all began [knocking on door] In Europe, the nobles have grown wealthy Spices and gold, gemstones and silk But Europeans have lost the Silk Road and foreign trade is in decline. The wealth of kings is in danger. Isabella, queen of Spain, is desperate And she has a plan. -[speaking Spanish] [narrator] This is the most A continent of expanding horizons, filled with competitive For 500 years, they have been building: Kings and popes have raised armies and their enemies on Europe's borders. Nowhere else are rivalries so intense, religious fervour and business expertise as in Europe in 1491. Ideas are advancing. Curiosity and the thirst for power [wind whistling] They're seeking riches and land, heading towards the frontiers But no one can guess lies another, of which they know nothing. The Amazon is a crowded place. The Andes cradle a vast empire Mesoamerica may be the most densely home to the most imposing civilizations And the Atlantic coast Along the rivers, great cities are built and giant earthen mounds. It is an ancient world, fishermen and farmers, Down amongst the trees, where the Missouri, Illinois in what is today the state of Illinois, lies one of the most fertile zones It's home to one of the largest The Mississippians: mound builders Flourishing in the year 1150. The first explorers thought carved by retreating glaciers. Now we know that they were Cities like Cahokia. Busy trading posts of earth and wood, No one knows what they called themselves But we do know why they were successful. The Mississippians are farmers. Their staple crop is fuel It is a plant native to the Americas, [rustling] Once they learned to grow it, This simple diet translated straight But corn is not a blessing from nature, This crop is the outcome of man's Scientists realized relatively recently that the ability to grow corn is a key to high cultures [man] The staple crop in North America Six thousand years ago, ears of corn were and they were barely edible. It took thousands of years to develop and also a hybrid that could grow in And it wasn't until about 1,100 years ago that corn reached [narrator] Corn is the result of the wild teosinte grass. Early Americans started and over the centuries they developed it Archaeologists and biologists how corn was achieved Corn is one of the keys to understanding Wherever it flourishes, Yet the greatest American empire is found where corn cannot grow: high in the Andes. The Inca Empire stretches down the west coast of South America. Incas build palaces, storehouses In their realm of six million people, they rely on manpower They have neither beasts of burden And the energy for that is provided Incas are famed for their gold, but their true treasure A tuber native to America Cultivated here 8,000 years ago, in the region around Lake Titicaca, in today's Peru and Bolivia, at an altitude of 4,000 meters. What is now a staple food in Europe was a South American invention. By the year 1491, domesticated from wild ancestors. Some poisonous, some even carnivorous. A thousand years ago, in one city alone, 30,000 tons of potatoes They preserved the tubers by mashing them into a substance After harvest, and left out to freeze at night. During the day they are [speaking Quechuan] Trampling them eliminates water Chuno can be stored for ten years, an excellent insurance The Inca carved step-like terraces to stop the soil eroding Terraces absorb more sunlight so potatoes can grow And all this is achieved using wooden tools. In North and South America in 1491, farmers grow corn and potatoes [speaking Quechuan] There's another continent across the ocean where a hundred million growing very different food In this same year of 1491, Europeans have to grow food in one-tenth of the space. Europe is a busy and crowded continent. And what they work on is not even theirs. [farmer muttering] [narrator] Most of them are farmers. Europe is filled with fields tilled by peasants. [farmer muttering] [narrator] Their main diet both made from grains. They plant rye or wheat in winter, oats or barley in the spring. And every third year, They know how to use It is heavier work, It is an agricultural revolution and it allows [blades creaking] And for that, [man speaking German] [speaking German] [interpreter] You see, was based on grains: wheat, rye; while old American agriculture But another difference European agriculture originated in a combination of farming That was not the case in America. That gave European agriculture First, the fertility of the soil and secondly, and that protected ecological reserves. [narrator] Domesticated animals. They make all the difference. [bellows] America has no cattle, no horses or pigs, no sheep, mules, goats or hens. European horses are beasts of burden. They can pull ploughs. And cattle provide meat, fur and hides. The domestic pig is a chief source [sniffs] Like the sheep, that needs no stable Even a mule can pull a cart. And cows give them milk, Europeans are breeding But it's not only people By 1491, the big five-- horses, cattle, have domesticated the European landscape. They are essential to Europe's prosperity. And none of these are known For Inca farmers in the Andes, their chief source of transport This is the biggest domestic mammal The llamas also offer dung for the soil But you can't milk or ride them, So they are no good -[llama braying] It's warmer and lighter than sheep's wool and produces a greater yield. [llama braying] [speaking Quechuan] They use bronze knifes to shear them. The second principal domesticated animal For the Aztecs, in today's Mexico the turkey is so important that they dedicated [chirping] Native Americans have so few because the biggest native mammals At the end of the last Ice Age, the giant bison and the mastodons, and the reasons for that First of all, as the Ice Age was ending, and this killed the vegetation Secondly, the arrival of hunters crossed over the Bering Strait coincided with the extinction and very likely these hunters who were slow and had a lot of meat. What this left in North America were that are not suited to domestication. [narrator] The animals that remain Space. From the glaciers of the Arctic north to the great plains of today's Midwest, gigantic herds thunder across There is room for antelopes... and for caribou. And there is room for bison. Room for the giant grizzly. And in the sky above, for flocks of birds Billions of passenger pigeons, from horizon to horizon. In 1491, they are hunted. By hundreds of Native American tribes. Village dwellers in the forests of These civilizations develop new methods They can't domesticate these animals, so they find a way of making When they notice that grass grows better they start to burn the prairies Many tribes such as the Sioux, Cheyenne, burn the Central Plains and the prairies to increase their spread. [fire bow squeaking] Burning the undergrowth in the fall keeps the forest open and park-like and makes hunting easier. Burning the prairie And the prairies cover The new, rich pastures will lure and increase as well as the predators America in 1492 That's a romantic myth. Natives regularly burned the forests [bison grunts] [narrator] With this technique, even lure the biggest mammal They domesticate the land in order to attract wild animals. Wherever they roam, bison are and of tools made from their bones. [grunting] The bison thrive. By 1491, North America They reign on the prairies pushed east by Native Americans opening up forest into virgin land. The bison have gained a new habitat, far beyond their original range. [birds chirping] Native Americans They have to hunt on foot. They dress in hides, and they hunt all made of wood and leather, [bison grunts] The bison hunt is essential Over in Europe, They hunt if they are noblemen, for sport, for pleasure and prestige. [panting] They have guns, but hunting is a ritual, carried out with the weapons of a knight. [boar squeals] And only the nobles are allowed to hunt. If ever they catch a peasant, he will be punished for poaching. Unlike in America, there's no room here for endless herds. Wild animals are retreating into forests. In Europe the land is man-made. Agriculture and cities [cattle mooing] Untamed land is now a rarity. But they have one other major food supply. Fish should be a cheap and abundant diet Christianity, the common religion approves of fish. Eating meat is banned The demand for fish is huge. But there is a problem. Intensive agriculture [thunder crashing] Europe's once-unlimited supplies What happened [man] As people started to grow crops this released huge amounts of sediment which changed them from being fast, into slow, turbid rivers and streams, and the freshwater fish Particularly migratory species that came up from the sea animals like salmon and sturgeon. There was another factor which also cut down the supplies and that was that people started and when that happened, and the populations declined. [narrator] Once they had emptied they turned to the sea. For the first time, They found abundance And they exploited it. Cod and herring from the North Sea Every five years, catches doubled. By 1300, thousands of tons of dried fish were exported from Norway In the Middle Ages, the seas of Europe until around the 11th century, and people went to the sea very large populations of fish, animals like cod and skates And they were able to catch For hundreds of years after that, all the way through supplies of marine fish and we were able to obtain what we needed. But later on, towards the end industrialised fishing began [narrator] But this is 1491. Europe's lakes and rivers In the Americas, They don't need it. Their rivers are not used for power Native Americans transport their fish far away from the coasts and waterways, into the interior, The Incas, high in the Andes, The Mississippians trade with communities as far away as the Great Lakes and the Gulf Coast to the south. They even eat fish and seafood Here, too, there is space for abundance. The waters teem with fish and with whales, [whale calling] Wherever Native Americans they find a bounty Menhaden, channel catfish, and sheephead. They never have to take more North and South America But it's not that simple. The greatest numbers of fish the largest river in the Americas To our eyes the Amazon rainforest But it was once a very different place When the jungle was cleared they found the remains that once tamed this landscape. In 1491, this area is home They tend orchards papaya, mango, cocoa, They speak many different languages and live in many different social systems. Their tightly-packed settlements of 120,000 square kilometres. They are linked by raised causeways, Much of this is natural savanna, But they have expanded the grasslands, regularly setting huge areas on fire. By 1491, they have created of plant species adapted by fire that cannot exist in nature. Eventually, the jungle will reclaim it. Further north, in what is now New Mexico, it looks like no humans Today it is one of the most The Chaco Canyon. There is no vegetation, no water, and there are no animals to be seen. And it was already like this in 1491. But once, this area This is the story of a civilization used its resources as well as it could, More than 500 years ago, the Chaco Canyon and forests of pine and juniper. This fertile area was home to the Anasazi. From the year 700 on, the Anasazi built the highest One is several stories high that overlook the majestic canyon. A thousand people lived here. They had no beasts of burden Thousands of felled trees were dragged on men's bare backs. There is no account of their lives But environmental historians by counting tree rings [coyote howling] Nathan English, spends much time in the canyon looking for traces of the ancient nests. [English] Our interest in Chaco Canyon is to learn more about There's a number of ways we can do that: through traditional archaeology, or we can also look around the ancestral Puebloans. And the way we do that And each packrat midden of the area around the midden itself. So you could think of it like a picture. And the middens can be And what the midden is, and it poops in that nest, and then it only gets its water so its urine is very thick and viscous. That urine seeps and solidifies, almost like amber. In the meantime, the plants around it, also pot shards, sometimes even corn and those macrofossils So we go out, we collect the midden, and then we examine the macrofossils to look at what the ecology [narrator] Not only do rat middens Dendrochronologists to give the exact date when the very last tree The Anasazi used juniper and pine and to make fire. Too much of it, some think. With the trees goes the soil. Because of erosion, water drains down, Irrigation and agriculture This large population But did they destroy the forests Other scientists who've worked here have a couple of ideas that were around here while the ancestral Puebloans The first is that natural climate change, uh, caused the margin of the woodland The second idea is that there were and they over-harvested the wood. We are on the edge and so it's really possible would have caused it to move back, but also we know that the people were and so it's likely that a combination are what led to the loss [narrator] The year 1130 rolls around. It's one of the driest of years. The Anasazi have but the population has increased greatly. And there is no suitable territory Without rain, it's impossible No agriculture means no culture. The Chaco Canyon is abandoned. These ancient Americans Using stone-age tools, they helped destroy It's a myth that native Americans Over in Europe But it's different for them. [crackling] Their growing population needs more food and they badly need the wood. They have the tools... they have the transport... [lumberman yells] -[narrator] And they have the energy. But they're beginning to run out of space. And time. Only wood can help them move forward. Wood has a special meaning in 1491. [Radkau speaking German] [interpreter] The Middle Ages You find it wherever you look. Wood was the most important material for making tools and furniture, It was the only fuel. [narrator] It is an era of competition, and wars use up forests, too. Whole armies are equipped The yew tree is almost Armies need iron weapons, and smelting ovens burn [soldiers shouting] [narrator] At the same time, to satisfy another For the great buildings of the age. [bangs] [narrator] The cathedrals in the cities yet they absorb millions of logs Larches are needed for roof supports. Solid logs of oak, alder and elm are sunk into the ground Wood is indispensable for pillars and ceilings, axe handles and cart wheels. European castles, cathedrals, monasteries in Germany, France, Italy, But who owns the European forests? And who is making money with them? [Radkau speaking German] [interpreter] Who the forests belong to No wonder that all the great social were fought in the forests, The nobles were mainly interested But for the peasants, They couldn't live without them. They needed them to graze their cattle [narrator] In this competition for timber, those who have money make the rules. And the money is now in the cities. The richest city of all is Venice. It's built on wood, literally. Piles sunk into the mud to create the platform on which But behind all this is banking, The goods that are bought and sold Venice has denuded to build its fleet. The city's demand is insatiable. And they start to deplete the Alps. Spruce for masts, larch for planking, walnut for rudders, When that is not enough, all the way The Europeans have exploited leaving a continent where and less and less timber in their forests. Their continent is crowded with people Nowhere else in the world are rivalries curiosity and greed as widespread, and religious fervour as in Europe in 1491. And for the first time, the common people The printing press is invented; But where do they go from here? [warriors shouting] Where can all this raw energy This is the time send explorers beyond the horizon to expand and enhance their power. Some explorers go around Africa One has the vision to sail west, He is a seaman from Genoa, who has the crazy idea of sailing Christopher Columbus has spent five years trying to persuade the one person Isabella, queen of Spain, finally agrees. What does the Spanish crown have to lose? It doesn't cost much Spain has so much to gain treasures, trade and land. At first, no one wants to board his ship. Finally he drags together illiterates, petty criminals, who choose probable death at sea Many are soldiers with nothing to do since Spain expelled the Moors Now, they are soldiers of fortune. With his band of desperados, Christopher Columbus sets sail It is the summer of 1492. He has promised the queen and his crew that they will be in India in six weeks. Columbus is the one who discovers America. But it is the people who come after him, and what they bring with them, that will transform the New World. Land! [narrator] It is October the 12, 1492, [man as Columbus] I saw neither sheep All the trees were as different and so the herbage, the rocks, [narrator] Three Spanish ships sail west Then, finally, they arrive. Eighty-seven men, among them But this is not Asia. They have no idea that they The air is hot, the water is warm. They have survived the voyage and in the name of God. They are exhausted: tired but thankful. What land is this? Where are the ports, the cities, The natives have seen many people Other tribes, but no one like this. [speaking Arawak] They will both soon discover Columbus and his men stay and have no idea that they are about ten times as large as Europe. From the tropical seas... to the arid deserts. It is vast. There is space. With room for every possible landscape. Stretching from the northernmost almost They will find animals and plants bison on the prairie... great herds of antelope and caribou They look as though they are living [birds squawking] But this is a managed land... by the inhabitants of America. In 1491, America is home with civilizations Not only hunters and gatherers, but fishermen and farmers, But the civilizations There are no books, no wheels They know nothing of each other. Northern tribes have never met And these have never seen the huge And all of them know nothing of Europe. It is Isabella, queen of Spain, [knock on door] It is the year 1493, and for seven months Upon his return he delivers [parrot squawks] In a few pages, Columbus describes Land to conquer, riches to exploit. And gold. In Europe no news stays local for long. Traders, armies and pilgrims carry news Columbus's letter is translated, copied, Now many Europeans are aching A few months later, in Spain, men are moving towards the ports Men who have no land and no work. They cross the barren Spanish regions Desperados with nothing to lose. Men in need of a job. And the queen needs them. Anyone can come along. Anyone can be a conquistador. Even a pig farmer can win glory [birds calling] In 1493, 17 ships arrive in the New World, on an island in the Caribbean Sea, Columbus's second voyage of Spanish exploration and conquest. Some will go south, some to the Andes, It is the conquest of the Americas. Driven by greed, carrying weapons, and with one animal With the horse, the Spanish in just a few decades. [soldiers shouting] Within 40 years, And the Aztecs in Central America Where, in 1491, there were towns and cities inhabited the Spaniards leave only ruins. And no one to manage the land. Spanish explorers invade the Americas First brought to the Caribbean islands, these animals reproduce and spread Horses have not been seen here Now they're back. It's as though the landscape Once ashore, a few horses run wild, and a new breed evolves, the mustang. Within 200 years, and the Rocky Mountains. At the end of the 18th century, A hundred and fifty years later, there may be seven million wild horses For the nomadic tribes and Comanche in the Central Plains, What they used to do on foot -- they can now do on the backs It transforms their lives. This Old World animal becomes Although the horse once it is now an image of nomadic America. As soon as the conquistadors have control one of them heads north. Hernando de Soto travels from Florida, looking for gold. The Spaniards leave death in their wake, and something else [pig squealing] As they journey through unknown jungles, They are the perfect source of food. They don't take up They look after themselves and they eat They're prolific little beasts. A healthy sow can give birth The conquistadors leave creating an ever-growing food supply The pigs are the key to their survival. But to Native Americans, they are a curse. In North America, natives and their staple crop of corn It seems the Indians have no idea Soon European swine are eating [pig snorting] Only a few generations after running wild, the animal becomes It grows tusks What began with a few pigs becomes a daily nightmare As well as the horse, Columbus had brought eight pigs Within 20 years, there are 30,000 pigs They multiply, conquering the Andes, But the Spaniard, his horse and his pig, would never have been so successful without a hidden passenger. It is when the Old and New Worlds touch meets his worst enemy, A Spanish missionary reports... [man as missionary] An epidemic broke out, Large bumps spread on people, On the face, the head, the chest. They lay in their dwellings no longer able to move or stir. The pustules caused great desolation. Very many people died of them No one took care of others any longer. [narrator] Deadly diseases &quot;For the natives,&quot; writes a chronicler, &quot;they are near all dead of the smallpox. So the Lord hath cleared our title To this day, scientists are still working to trace their paths and count the dead. [Isenberg] Smallpox was in the 16th century. The smallpox virus is very hardy. In blankets that are used the scabs can live for weeks, and smallpox can also pass onboard a transatlantic vessel And of course once smallpox it was introduced to millions who had no acquired immunities And so smallpox, together had a devastating impact No one knows exactly Conservative estimates are about 50%. It was probably closer [narrator] Through trade diseases spread Many natives die of foreign diseases Microbes move faster than Some 50 years after Columbus conquistadors and explorers No one stands in their way. Most of the people are dead. And nature reclaims the land. Everything that they now find a Garden of Eden, without humans. [animals screeching] &quot;A thousand different kinds of birds which have never been known, and whereof there is no mention made, nor any other nations of the world,&quot; reports a Spanish missionary. [honking] &quot;It may be God hath made Explorers send exotic plants and animals, evidence of God's second creation, [parrot whistles] [speaking Spanish] Corn, chilli and pumpkins, unknown in Europe. Tomatoes and potatoes. But there is an unwelcome passenger An unintentional gift from the natives. It will lead to death in Europe. It will spread in the brothels It will be painful. It drives its victims mad. And it can take a long, long time to kill. This is the French pox, [thunder crashing] Europeans believe that syphilis They have no idea it comes from America, where more and more of them And in the 17th century, a new wave of people head England has defeated Spain The English crown sets out In 1607, the British found a colony in what is now Virginia. They name it Jamestown, after their king. This will become their New World. Their job is to make money for the British trading companies The land they seize seems to be Forests and rivers, coasts and lakes, But not all Native Americans have And this land is neither empty It is the land of the Powhatan. Fifteen thousand people Around 200 villages on the coast in large houses surrounded and mixed fields of squash, These are farmers and hunters. There is no gold, Just the land and its people. [speaking Algonquian] [giggling] [speaking Algonquian] [giggling] [narrator] For a while, the settlers [twig snaps] This land is rich with resources In the long run, resources that are And there's more than enough for everyone. Europeans wanted to travel west, Instead the New World they found The first settlers They sailed from estuaries with sediment washed off the land. They were polluted with refuse, and so this was what they had When they discovered the New World, that were crystal-clear water. You could see all the way down You could see the vegetation You could see fish in abundance, almost miraculous, unbelievable quantities One particular kind of fish was the river herring, or alewife And seasonally these to spawn from the sea For example, in the Potomac River during the 18th century, something just from that one river in one year. It was a remarkable abundance and people described the rivers [narrator] Whole shoals are caught In the 17th century, hundreds of thousands from North America to England, Fishing boats sink under the weight It takes settlers what had taken a thousand years Overfishing can impact on populations and one thing that it does is to change the way that an animal So fishing tends to remove the biggest, and by doing this, it changes so that fish begin to grow more slowly. They reach reproductive maturity and these things all reduce So over time, fisheries become that we like them to do. [narrator] Fish are salted, packed Along with them, that the Old World is desperate for. [man as settler] There are trees such that a squirrel starting off need never touch the ground [narrator] This is so different They have finally found a replacement for An infinite, accessible source The forests must fall From now on the trees are doomed. [Radkau speaking German] [interpreter] When the first settlers they found forests of a kind endless forests with huge trees. Penetrating into the heart of the land The axe was the Yankee emblem. At the same time, forests were You could make plenty In Europe, wood had become expensive. And so the greatest forest destruction [narrator] &quot;The clearing of forests that goes so far that today many areas and many of the Atlantic islands [man as settler] An incredible amount is really squandered [narrator] Day and night, all winter, a fire is kept going,&quot; &quot;The resources in this But in time, fish stocks Europeans change America by cutting down They create this New World But they haven't just taken away. They change this continent even more They leave their homes something most could never dream of They come in search of religious freedom, They believe they are responsible For the first time, and they bring a whole way They bring animals and plants that [sheep bleating] [squawking] Livestock and grains from Europe and make of it a true New England. With the newly imported plough, they will leave not [horse whinnies] Domesticated livestock and metal tools, An environmental revolution takes place. In no time, their European wheat Wheat, barley, oats and rye But in the process, some less welcome [Isenberg] Europeans introduced crops but in the bags of seed that they they also brought along seeds for weeds: and these are everywhere [narrator] From the most to the continent's greatest mammal, nothing is untouched. America's native flora and fauna Where the bison once reigned, To the settlers' delight, their livestock multiplies more quickly In a few hundred years, European cows and trample the soil, depositing their excrement [horses whinnying] The invasion of European animals Horses, pigs, sheep, goats, chickens, take over North and South America. The cattle alone double in numbers and feed the settlers. The settlers defend themselves But there are no shortages of any kind. Meat has become the cheapest food They are the best-fed people in the world. Very interesting knives. [woman] We have this. Boys, you're gonna want a shot of rum. [narrator] Hides are in great demand, And the fur of the wild animals they shoot Some, like the beaver, Settlers are not forced to adapt They domesticate and dominate it. &quot;All trees were cut down and turned where all kinds of vegetables grow in profusion.&quot; They replace the trees they cut down The Europeans bring peaches, They bring figs, olives and bananas. Their trees will flourish. They never know how lucky they are. Because the settlers brought bees The native American bee but European honeybees and will pollinate any plant in sight. Gardens will turn into plantations, Apples will one day be With a yearly harvest it will lead worldwide exports, This is biological imperialism Europe's fruits and vegetables But it is also an exchange. It is the Columbian Exchange. European kitchens may not see native meat But New World vegetables The plant with needs a couple of centuries &quot;This tuber is insipid and mealy. It cannot be classed among But it furnishes abundant to men who are content to be nourished. It is justly regarded as flatulent, but what are winds to the vigorous organs wrote Diderot in his Encyclopaedia First introduced into Spain, and to northern and eastern Europe. By 1600, the potato has conquered Austria, England, and Germany. Frederick the Great himself But it is the Irish who adopt the potato They have a limited food supply has often been destroyed But the potato, safely underground, In a hundred years, And towns like Berlin By 1700, there is an unprecedented thanks to a plant from the faraway Andes. Yet only one animal from the New World [turkey gobbling] The turkey. Domesticated by the Aztecs in Mexico, [Isenberg] So, why was Why did it go primarily in one direction, with the exception of things Why was Europe not overtaken It's difficult to say why but you have to remember was a cooperative enterprise, disease and plants and Europe remained densely populated. It didn't have diseases And so you didn't have niches and then weeds to take over the areas that So without that critical part, [narrator] The European elite want more They want luxury products. Sugar and tobacco meet the requirements The first British settlers quickly acquire and export large shipments to Europe. To satisfy such high demand, Growing sugar becomes a business The new monocultures For this sole purpose, some ten million enslaved to cultivate luxury items [Isenberg] Because of the rapid owing to disease, Europeans faced a shortage of labour in the New World, So the Europeans, first the Portuguese and then eventually the English, to cultivate sugar in the Caribbean rice in South Carolina, in mainland North America, cotton. It's no exaggeration to say that produced by slave labour were essential [narrator] By the 18th century, the metamorphosis of much of America New Spain and New England Nature has been transformed Now pioneers are heading west. There is still empty land They will complete In the creation of the New World, perhaps 90% of The people who took their place came settlers... colonists... and pioneers. And they came from Africa as slaves. But it was the transfer of animals that really made the creation In today's chrome and steel cities, that it may be difficult to believe [car horn honks] But in the final analysis, the skyscrapers owe their existence not only to humans, [Isenberg] People came to the Americas Some came to make money, some came involuntarily as slaves, but those populations took hold because of the accident of ecology. Because of the microbes, the plants, that gave them an advantage And the legacy of the Columbian Exchange and that legacy will continue [narrator] It all began 500 years ago. Columbus had a vision. And three ships set out and found the New World.