The Human Centipede is regarded by many as one A film that the famous critic Roger Ebert it a star rating, writing: &quot;I am required to I refuse to do it. The star rating system is it bad? Does it matter? It is what it is and The film is based around one a mad doctor abducts hapless tourists and particularly disgusting configuration tracts. He turns three people into, The film arose from several different places, a friend concerning the type of criminals might deserve. But the primary the worst atrocities in human history. The Dr. Josef Heiter, was inspired by (and And we're sorry to tell you in advance that make the film look tame by comparison, and Josef Mengele was born on March 16, 1911, in of a farming equipment manufacturer. In 1935, the University of Munich. In 1936, he passed his working at the Institute for Hereditary Biology became assistant to the institute's director, Dr. on twins. When the Nazi Party first emerged in then, in 1931, he joined a different right-wing 1934, he was no longer actively participating, and It was during his time at university that Mengele science, believing that Germans were biologically in the world. This inaccurate racial science was and in 1938, Mengele officially joined the party his mentor and employer's racism, and together Nazi party, providing their expert opinion on as German in a racial sense. If they did not or banned from marrying in order to prevent passed on. It was a pernicious ideology some of the worst atrocities in human history. would only climb higher and higher In June of 1940, Mengele was drafted into the he volunteered to join the medical service of the his work of evaluating the physical attributes counted as &quot;real&quot; Germans. After being assigned the Soviet Union, he was promoted to SS captain Mengele returned to Germany in January of 1943 and of the Kaiser Wilhelm Institute for Anthropology, 1943, the SS assigned Mengele to Auschwitz, where the largest Auschwitz camp. Among his &quot;selection&quot; process. When groups of Jewish including Mengele, would sort them, picking including less physically strong adults and work would be massacred in the gas chambers. they would be selected for execution and the gas chamber. Mengele was the responsible for the &quot;selections,&quot; earning him the Gisella Perl, a Jewish gynecologist her memoir &quot;I was a Doctor in Auschwitz&quot; infirmary was a source of terror. In her words, because...we never knew whether we would be he pleased with us.&quot; As horrible as this work was, one of medical history's greatest monsters. When condemning them to death on a whim, he was and frequently deadly human experiments When it came to his research, one of was twins. Twins played a large role in of which human characteristics were genetic who were preoccupied with selecting for twins were the perfect research subjects. Mengele no consideration for ethics or human rights while came into the concentration camp, he would have research would begin. From 1943 to 1944, Mengele Twins in the camp would be forced to examined thoroughly, and measured to compare Blood would be removed from one twin and Spinal taps and injections into the spine would diseases (including typhus and tuberculosis) not the other, in order to see what would the healthy twin would be murdered as well so One of the twins taken for experimentation, Eva was able to write about her experiences in She described the experience of life &quot;Three times a week we were marched sort of like a big gymnasium. They would keep time - most of the days. ..... We would have entered, and people in white jackets would would study every part of our bodies. They would and compare the measurements of one twin on...most of the time, they would take blood from After she and her sister Miriam were taken Eva witnessed the unspeakable horrors of In one particularly gruesome case, Mengele was back to back, connecting their blood vessels them into conjoined twins. This failed, The twins screamed in agony for days, In another experiment, Mengele tract of a seven-year-old girl to her had organs removed, or had limbs cut off, Another area of interest for Mengele was eyes, with heterochromia for study. Sometimes, he but a lot of the time, he would simply have them a colleague at the Kaiser Wilhelm Institute that often children, he would inject eyeballs in an attempt to change their he would apply eye drops that caused Mengele targeted other specific groups for his physical abnormalities. He would X-ray and measure them with various unnecessary drugs. After a in the gas chambers, and send their skeletons to meet a similar fate. Men, women, and children, In 1985, Moshe Ofer, a survivor of the camps &quot;He visited us as a good uncle, bringing us syringe, he would say: 'Don't be afraid, injected chemical substances, performed surgery bring us gifts...In the course of later heads. The puncture scars are still visible. One several days. When he was brought back, his head Another survivor, whose name has been kept test subject as well: &quot;I was about five weeks my parents, two sisters and two brothers when on the way from the c-lager to the gas chamber. Mengele and his assistant. They took me to his were screaming from pain. Black and blue bodies terror and fainted. A bucket of cold water stood up I was whipped with a leather whip whipping was a sample of what I would receive I was used as a guinea pig for medical or anesthetics. Every day I suffered excruciating body most of the time was connected to tubes which was tied up for hours. Some days they made cuts to study. Most of the time there was nothing to was no more skin left on my body for them to put place was empty. We were left with open infected no energy or life left in us. [One] day ... Russian or dead. They felt a tiny beat in my heart and In 2009, a man named Yitzhak Ganon was rushed after a viral infection threatened his life. had one kidney. When Ganon woke up from his and why he had avoided doctors for the one of the prisoners at Auschwitz, and When he arrived at Auschwitz, he was taken to he did, he was tied down. Next, Mengele cut him Ganon looked at the kidney in Mengele's for anything that would stop the pain. His wish forced to clean bloody medical instruments. He Auschwitz, put through a gauntlet of experiments During one test, he was made to sit in night so that Mengele could study his lung the Nazis planned to send him to the gas to see the liberation of Auschwitz by the In January of 1945, as the Red Army crossed Auschwitz's SS personnel fled the camp. At the end uniform and found a place in a unit, which then of the war. Mengele pretended to be an ordinary of war, but later released. All the while, his their crimes against humanity. He eluded justice, from 1945 to spring of 1949. US war crimes Mengele's family lied to protect him, convincing Mengele assumed another fake name and new Argentina. In 1956, he achieved Argentinian Mengele. But West German officials were hot on the he immigrated to Paraguay, becoming a in order to avoid Israeli intelligence where he lived until suffering a stroke in near Bertioga. He drowned there, and his body In May of 1985, the German, Israeli, and United Mengele once and for all. Unbeknownst to them, he of a Mengele family friend and discovered 1985, Mengele's corpse was exhumed and responsible for so much suffering the remainder of his life without ever Though Mengele was able to escape other Nazi doctors were forced to answer 23 German physicians and administrators tribunal in Nuremberg on trial for war Brigadier General Telford Taylor, the Chief of statement by the prosecution: &quot;The defendants and other atrocities committed in the these crimes are numbered in the hundreds of a few of the survivors will appear in this were slaughtered outright or died in the course For the most part they are nameless dead. To individuals at all. They came in wholesale After nearly 140 days, which included the testimony of 85 witnesses, the judges announced were found guilty, and seven were sentenced to Among the crimes that were uncovered during the of giving prisoners wounds without any anesthesia and medications. In other cases, doctors would to sew them to others, looking to see if limb Nazi doctor Sigmund Rascher placed more than one at a time to simulate the effects of subjects died from altitude sickness and lack of At the same camp, Hans Eppinger performed an of food and forced them to drink only seawater most infamous, involved the study of hypothermia. ice baths for hours at a time, before attempting methods. Approximately one-third of the test During another study conducted at Dachau, several prisoners with malaria. They used either exposure mosquitoes' mucus glands to force them to the doctors tested several drugs on them to during the process, and others were left The history of human experimentation in but it didn't only happen in Germany. Germany in World War II, the two enemies and unethical human experimentation occurred on from the 1940s to the 1960s believed that medical advancement mattered more than mental patients, and other marginalized and uncovering cures for infectious diseases, In a series of federally-funded studies in the men to hepatitis without their consent, using and Norwich, Connecticut. No new understanding were infected with hepatitis. In the mid-1940s, of a stomach illness by having young men at unfiltered stool suspensions. In 1957, during inmates at a Maryland prison, spraying There were other disturbing experiments beyond just the study of infectious resident physician at San Quentin prison, would These testicles came from farm animals prisoners. After the Nuremberg Code was put protections to human test subjects, many doctors they didn't see their work as anything like They believed that, and yet, in 1963, researchers Cronic Disease Hospital in Brooklyn to see not told that this was happening. Also, in a medical study was conducted at the WIllowbrook These children were given hepatitis to test toward this sort of human experimentation turned to prevent similar ethical transgressions. But doctors in the United States carried on the all the while convinced they were still the good villain, even when committing crimes against the right justification, even people who think