Bono The sun. The sun is the thing I fear the most. But also the twisted beliefs some people have about albinos. In May, an albino child was attacked, his organs were removed, and he died. We are hearing increasingly gruesome details about this albino trade. The black market here has extremely high prices. Every body part has a value. All these parts together can even reach an exorbitant sum of 70,000 euros. Behind us, there is a man tied to a tree with a chain. The situation is surreal. You know, there are two reasons why albinos are killed. The first is ignorance. The second is superstition. My name is Giuseppe, and I have a mission: to travel the world and meet the most extraordinary people on the planet and ask them a simple question: What is happiness to you? Welcome to PROJECT HAPPINESS. How many of you have an albino friend? Or rather, how many have you seen in your life? This might seem like a very peculiar question, but not here in Tanzania, where the highest number of albino children live. And what might seem like just a genetic curiosity, is actually much more here. Albinism means witchcraft, black magic, and unfortunately also unheard-of violence, because here the story I want to tell you today is very harsh. It might even be hard to understand because albinos in Tanzania, in this part of the world, are hunted like prey. It is believed that the blood, bones, and skin of albinos can be used to create potions that bring wealth and health. Albinos here are seen and perceived as ghosts. And it is therefore considered normal, almost acceptable, to kill them. This, unfortunately, is the reality for albinos who live in constant fear of being attacked, of falling victim to such attacks. Imagine how hard it must be for an albino to hide here in Africa. It is practically impossible. And so, they live in constant fear of being attacked, except in one place. There is an island where albinos can hide, where they are protected. And we are going there to meet them and hear their stories. But first, let me explain it better. In the heart of East Africa, surrounded by the timeless waters of Lake Victoria, there is an island that few people know about: Ukerewe. Here, on this remote land, one of Africa's most persecuted communities, the albinos, hides. Over the past decades, it has become a refuge where albino men, women, and children seek protection from a ruthless hunt that haunts them across the African continent. Especially in Tanzania, albinism is shrouded in folklore and superstition. It is believed that albinos possess magical powers and that their body parts can be used in witchcraft rituals to bring fortune or healing. These beliefs have turned albinos into prey, hunted and mutilated to feed a dark trade in &quot;magical parts.&quot; And so, from childhood, they grow up with the knowledge that they must flee or hide, and Ukerewe has become their refuge, their last line of defense, because it is difficult to reach. Here, they can try to live without the constant terror of being kidnapped or mutilated. And even though they know that even here they cannot let their guard down, amidst this fear, they seek something that might seem impossible to the outside world: happiness. Before reaching Ukerewe Island, we are here in this village 30 kilometers from Mwanza, to meet some local boys who seem to be able to take us to a real witch doctor. At least someone who can explain this inhumane practice to us properly. And yet, here in Tanzania, it is obviously illegal, but 50% of the population still believes in these practices, in this witchcraft, due to ignorance, lack of education, and poverty. So, these practices are still deeply rooted and widespread among the population. We wait for nightfall to enter the village, immersed in a darkness that seems to envelop everything. Here, we are far from everything and everyone, and we can only hope we placed our trust in the right person. The only one who agreed to take us here is Rubi, a local boy of Rastafarian religion. He has long fought to protect children, trying to raise awareness among his people and challenging beliefs that see them as prey. Imagine living, knowing that you are prey. Perhaps your best friend or your neighbor could betray and kill you just for money. Since I was born until now, at 29 years old, I have never seen a funeral for an albino person. I think it's out of fear. People believe that holding a funeral might attract some fool who, in the following days, might do something to the corpse. They might steal the body. They might steal the body because they believe its parts are valuable, which is utterly stupid. We have to trust them. We don't really know where we're going. The people we're with, however, are telling us increasingly gruesome details about this albino trade. They're telling us that the black market here has extremely high prices for albino body parts, for example, fingers and hands can be worth two or three thousand euros. An arm can be worth EUR5,000, a leg EUR7,000. It seems absurd to talk to you about this, but every body part has a value. All these parts together can even reach an exorbitant figure of EUR70,000. So people with bad intentions could truly commit something inhumane just to make money. We've also been told that genitals are sometimes used as keychains, just think about how absurd that is. We walked for half an hour through nothing but forest to get here. It's a remote, secluded village far from Mwanza, the largest city here, because we needed to meet a witch doctor, the witch doctor said to be the most powerful. We hope he can welcome us and explain what witchcraft is here and how it is connected to albinism. It won't be easy. We sense a lot of reluctance to talk about this topic. No one really tells us what they think, but we hope at least he will welcome us. Now we have to wait here. They told us to wait here, in this small courtyard, and we hope he can give us some information. It's a somewhat surreal situation because... this village is a reference point for all the people with mental issues or health problems. And since he is a witch doctor, a magical doctor for them, everyone with problems is brought here. Behind us, there's a man tied to a tree with a chain. A surreal situation. After waiting for him to finish a propitiatory ritual, the witch doctor welcomes us. To our surprise, however, we discover that the witch doctor is a very young girl. A witch doctor is there to help people. Not to kill albinos. Albinos are human beings just like us. The crazy ones who perform these practices aren't even witch doctors. When you talk to them, you immediately understand that they are afraid of the authorities. You immediately see they are untrustworthy. True witch doctors are definitely not afraid of the law. A true witch doctor has a special permit to practice and strictly follows government orders. Instead, those people who do such things tarnish our name; they are evil people. They even go so far as to kill for their magic, and the name of witch doctors is associated with murderers. When these people are caught, they swear they were sent by witches, but witchcraft has never done such things. A true witch doctor is on earth to help people. Those who have other purposes besides this are just fraudsters. So young yet so wise and powerful. The whole village hangs on her every word, and fortunately, she seems to use her powers only for the good of the people. You know, there are two reasons why albinos are killed. Yes. The first is ignorance. Yes. The second is superstition. For example, some people working in mines believe that to find precious minerals, they need a part of an albino person's body. So those witch doctors tell them to bring parts of an albino's body. People think: "Oh, when I have a part of an albino's body, I will become rich. When I have this, I'll be rich." So people from villages or remote areas are not fully aware of what they are doing. For example, something happened two or three months ago. A father killed his own daughter in Bukoba. He killed her because he was told to do so. And he didn't even get anything in return! Just a promise: "When we kill her, we'll sell her, and we'll get money." What do you feel when you see an albino? I have a dear albino friend. Many of them have little self-confidence. They feel different from other people. They see themselves as people with a disability. As far as I know, albinism is not a disability, but a condition that you might simply happen to have. You can think just like a non-albino person, walk the same way, have the same abilities, perhaps even better ones. I just think they lack something, but I absolutely don't believe they have superpowers. There are no differences. The only one is the color, but there are no others. If he is a commodity, then so am I! This night spent among rituals and shadows in the witch doctors' village has changed the way I see things. Perhaps the problem isn't witchcraft itself, but those who exploit this word to make money unscrupulously, hurting and even killing innocent people. Because of these impostors, superstition has now become a widespread belief, difficult to stop. Now I have more questions than answers, but tomorrow at dawn, I will set foot on Ukerewe Island, at the heart of the albino community, to find the truth. Three hours of navigation separate us from Ukerewe, It will be a turbulent journey because Lake Victoria is so shallow that on rainy days like this, its waters can become very rough. In the meantime, though, I want to tell you how I browse the internet. In an increasingly risky online world, using a VPN is a smart choice, but many don't realize this until it's too late. And this is the perfect time to try NordVPN with a special Black Friday offer: an exclusive discount and four months free on the two-year plan. You'll find the link in the description. During our trips and adventures, NordVPN is always with us, protecting our connection. It encrypts data, hides our IP, and keeps us safe. Thanks to its "no logs" policy, no one, not even NordVPN, can know what we do online. But the real game changer is "Threat Protection Pro," which not only encrypts your connection but also blocks malware, dangerous sites, and intrusive ads. Complete protection 24/7. And it's not just about security, changing your virtual location can save you money on flights and hotels and allows you to access content like international TV series and movies wherever you are. Plus, with just one account, you can protect up to six devices, perfect for your laptop, tablet, and loved ones. As always, I've left a link in the description to try NordVPN and browse in complete safety, but now let's get back to our story. Upon our arrival, we are welcomed by Vedastus, one of the leaders of the albino community. He has a great mission here on the island: to provide refuge and hope to as many albinos as possible at the protection center that was built right here in Ukerewe, and now we are heading there. Is it safe for an albino person to live in Ukerewe? There's a higher likelihood that albinos here in Ukerewe are safe. There's a lot of protection. In this community, there are almost no cases of murder or crimes against people with albinism. Here, everything seems normal; for a long time, we haven't recorded incidents related to albino myths. There have been no cases of body exhumations, bone theft, or similar stories. What is your role in your community? I handle the legal protection of albino and disabled people. Here, laws are fundamental. Without them, we couldn't live...in peace. The law protects us, preventing us from being treated as precious objects. How many albinos live in Ukerewe? Currently, according to the data in our office, there are about seventy people with albinism here on Ukerewe Island. As soon as we arrive at the center, we are greeted by gazes filled with contrasting emotions. There's certainly a lot of curiosity, as if our presence were a special event. But there's also something deep in their eyes, like a trace of fear. It's a powerful mix: the desire to open up, to be seen for who they really are, but also the awareness that the outside world we come from is often a place that has betrayed them. It's as if every smile carries a bit of fear, but also the desire to keep hoping. It's also started raining, but it's actually a wonderful day because arriving in such a place, after everything we've heard, gives me relief. This is the only place where albinos don't feel like prey, where they aren't afraid of being hunted like wild animals because here they are protected, here they can live a normal life. Now we are going to meet a girl, a girl who, we've been told, recently lost her parents to skin cancer. Here, of course, that is one of the greatest risks for albinos. Consider that the average lifespan of albinos is 30 to 40 years, and the greatest risk, of course, is the sun-- it's their... it's their number one enemy-- if it weren't for the people who hunt them for... for their skin, for their blood, for their bones. Can you help me understand what albinism means? A person with albinism inherits a lack of melanin, the pigment that gives natural color to the skin, hair, and eyes. What is your greatest fear? The sun. It's what I fear the most. But I also fear the sick beliefs of some people. Your mom, 50. People believe that cutting off a hand or any other organ of an albino person brings luck and wealth. Yes... there have been several cases of people with albinism killed for their organs. In May, a child was attacked, and his organs were removed. He lost his life. Don't you find it rather ironic that you're discriminated against because of your skin color, perhaps for being too white? Yes, it's rather ironic. It's been very difficult living in an environment full of people who discriminate against you. So... The only solution is to persevere because you're already part of this community. This is already home. The only way is to fight for yourself, study, and show that you're much more than your skin color. We can do great things: become pilots, doctors, and be active members of society. How do you protect yourself from the sun? I cover up, wear a hat, and use sunscreen. That's how I try to prevent cancer. Being an albino here is difficult because, here in Africa, we have very strong sun exposure. Living here means you're at much greater risk of sunburn compared to other parts of the world. It's fantastic. Inside the center, there's also a workshop where these kids sew and prepare hats, which are so needed to protect themselves from the sun. Thanks to these hats with very wide brims, they can avoid sunburn on at least their necks and faces... they're essential for them. I work for our albino brothers and sisters. It makes me feel good to fight alongside them to show everyone that they are human beings like us. Here we produce these hats, which are then distributed to albinos throughout Tanzania. These hats with wide brims are crucial for protecting their skin from the sun. Their condition only concerns their skin color, but you should see them as exactly like you and me. I'm telling you this because people tend to see them as different, but fundamentally, they're like everyone else. It's society that needs to change its perspective, and they should live like any other human being. Besides the sun, a daily challenge for albinos is their eyesight. See how they use their phones? Because one of the most severe conditions of albinism is reduced vision, a limitation in many aspects of their sight. For instance, they clearly can't see well, and they have limited perception of spatial depth. Additionally, they suffer from photophobia, which is an extreme sensitivity to light that prevents them from seeing well in many aspects. This is why they always use their phones very close to their eyes. When they're at school, kids always need to sit in the front rows because they can't even see the blackboard. And they can't often participate in sports because they often can't even catch or grab a ball, as they struggle to perceive movement, space, and the three-dimensionality of objects. So this is one of the most severe conditions. Eyesight is one of their weakest points. The president of the center is a charismatic and reassuring figure. His gaze reflects the determination of someone who has seen and faced a lot, but also a sincere kindness, that of someone who has chosen to dedicate every day to the protection and support of his brothers and sisters. When a child is born with albinism, society tends to heavily stigmatize them, often making them feel outcast. They are often seen as if they were something wrong, something abnormal or even dangerous. For this reason, we albinos of Ukerewe fight against stigmatization, not just for us, but for all African albinos. The ultimate goal is to work alongside the government and local communities to help build a more inclusive and understanding environment. What are the greatest fears and challenges that an albino faces outside of here, in the larger world? The number one priority for albinos is ensuring their health and well-being. The government has started offering better healthcare services, which has certainly led to improvements in the quality of our lives. People living with albinism have unique and specific needs that must be addressed. For example, they must wear wide-brimmed hats, protective glasses, and long-sleeved clothing to shield themselves from the harmful effects of the sun. Unfortunately, those who continue to discriminate against albinos still believe that being born albino is some sort of curse or misfortune. Here in Ukerewe, we are part of a movement fighting to end the violence, murders, and stigmatization directed at albinos. Albinos are just like anyone else, especially since we are born from black parents, but are often rejected by them because of our condition. What is your dream for the albino community here in Ukerewe and beyond? My dream is for our community to finally be embraced with love and respect, so that we can show the immense value we bring to society. It's truly touching to discover that despite everything, those who live here retain hope and determination. There's something special about this place, a strength that goes beyond words. I thank God for making me albino. I don't complain, and I don't doubt myself. God made me this way, and I've never suffered because of it. Sometimes I may meet someone I don't recognize right away, and that can scare me. But I'm happy to be this way because I feel unique. I was born this way by God's will. Accepting oneself is fundamental to being happy; when you accept yourself, you find happiness. That's why I can't say I dislike my albinism; it's a part of me, something immutable. It will live with me until the end, and for this, I am happy. I'm proud to be albino. After chatting and hearing the different answers about happiness from the albinos at the center, it's time for Nehema, with whom we've become close. She is particularly eager to tell us what happiness means to her and what truly brings her joy amidst many challenges. My greatest dream in life is to become a highly successful and skilled dermatologist. I want to become a dermatologist because there are so few specialists, and many albinos suffer from skin cancer due to lack of proper care. Unfortunately, by the time they arrive at the hospital, it is often already too late to properly treat them. I want to dedicate myself to working for my community, a community that has been forgotten and neglected for such a long time. Yes. I tragically lost both of my parents to skin cancer. They only sought treatment when they were already in a critical and advanced stage of the disease. I will do everything within my power to achieve my dream and become a skilled, compassionate doctor who can truly help others. It's truly surreal to think that being an albino in Tanzania means living every day as prey. You wake up knowing that because of your skin color, you can't trust anyone, because to some, you're just a magical and precious object to hunt. And every glance around you might hide a dark intent. It's like living a double life--invisible to those who should protect you but too visible to those who want to exploit you. In reality, though, observing them closely, I realize that every warm word, every spontaneous gesture, every genuine smile from these people is an act of pure courage, because they are not just trying to survive; they are fighting for the right to live fully, to be happy despite those who see them as objects rather than human beings. And it's among them that you understand that, even though the world considers them fragile, they are perhaps some of the strongest people I have ever met.