Skiers descend the slopes of a glacier. It's the off-piste skiing experience There's no ski lift. The only way Wow, look at that. Do you want to have lunch It can be up here. Up where we think that that's going on. Am I in the sixth? At the end of the day after a dozen runs, Four minutes of flight later, This privileged group heads equipped with a landing platform. We're in Greenland, off Ilulissat, [Foreign language spoken audio] Virgin snow and incredible. Was it busy? Yes, almost four all the time. -Cheers. -Thank you all. They're here for five days, There are nine of them This is their yacht, It's what's called an expedition yacht, a boat capable of sailing The latest trend but to the polar regions. Even in the far-flung corners here you can live A huge wood-paneled dining room, Thirteen cabins worthy A lounge for cigar lovers, or for music lovers, a grand piano. The owner of the Legend is Jan Verkerk. He has three yachts and is the heir What he loves most is sailing Simply to feel at home. When the people come on board and sit with their feet on the couch, That's the whole idea and a perfect time on the boat. Jan has owned luxury mega yachts The boats get bigger, but that's obvious. The boats are about four times bigger, The whole scale is completely different. For the last 10 years, billionaires have been racing Between Arab sheikhs, Russian oligarchs, the question is the most expensive, the craziest. The most expensive yacht in the world, and belongs to the Emir of Abu Dhabi. It costs EUR550 million. The Mega Yacht Owners' Club with its rituals and its secrets. This is my very good friend, This is the lifestyle of the one percent, If you're blessed enough then you're blessed, that's just it. To design them, the owners call upon The A was designed by Frenchman Philippe Starck. To afford one of these giants of the seas, A 50 meter boat costs EUR50 million to buy and roughly six to EUR10 million You also need to bankroll a large staff. We all have a different role on board. We have one girl who serves breakfast, One girl who's in the laundry. It's non-stop all day. It's a contest to see who will have Like this personal submarine equipped We're at two zero meters, 20 meters. Several millionaires have granted us The thrill of the competition. From Dubai to Miami, Greenland to Monaco, an investigation Huge sails swell in the wind. A deck the size of a tennis court. Twelve crewmen run in all directions. We're off the coast of Miami aboard the Sybaris. This mega yacht is 70 meters long American billionaire, Bill Duker. The sea is agitated today, It's a competition with nature this time and to see how you feel. This Sunday, he invited some friends on a spontaneous day trip The staff in uniform pamper the guests. A casual selection Even if on board, A boat like this, glasses, towels, sheets, you've spent more than $1 million. I have a joke. If the rest of the world learns what it's like to live they're going The owner paid a modest sum After a few hours at sea, the boat returns to its port Bill Duker lives in a building nicknamed He owns a triplex The apartment looks like a museum. Frank Stella, Valdez, Dubuffet, the great names On the top floor, The apartment was valued at EUR60 million. The billionaire is proud You're in the best apartment You have of Fisher Island, of Miami Beach and the ocean on this side. I don't know I don't know I think it's a unique apartment. It is, in my view, It's the best apartment, Like many billionaires, He has a designer, We could put the gym there. Together, they designed this apartment In 2009, I learned that I had melanoma, and that the melanoma had spread You certainly begin to think A day or two after that, I called Peter and I said with this apartment or with the boat. At the end of that week, I said to myself, However long I have, and a reason to do something special. I called him back and said, &quot;We're going forward with the boat, The billionaire is now cured. He takes great pleasure in gazing I used to joke before the boat got here to put the boat right here The main mast, would come above the space That's phenomenal. First Bill Duker was a business lawyer. After trouble he had to start again from scratch. He has since made a fortune I enjoy what I do for work, I enjoy my friends. In every respect, I am the regular guy. Even when he's not sailing, He's welcomed by the captain. Like all the crew, He makes between EUR15,000 This yard has a living area with a living room, and the billionaire's cabin. There are five other cabins. Like the apartment, like this fresco-inspired Bill Duker is also proud Bill said, &quot;What if instead of wood trunks, I was like, &quot;Yes, that could be great.&quot; -How many alligators actually died for it? Farm-raised alligators, farm-raised, Now in Florida, They eat our dogs. There are crocodiles, too. No, crocodiles are endangered, It really is this beautiful thing. Today Bill Duker invited some friends I can't do it. -You just got here? David Boies and his wife Mary. Get up all the stairs. Hey, good to see you. Boies is one of the biggest lawyers The couple has their own small yacht. -This one. It's a one-of-a-kind, and I've been Whenever Mary climbs aboard a yacht she carries out a rather unusual ritual, climbing the mast. She's going to go up the bosun's chair How do you feel about that? She's done it before, I think she's crazy. The good news is my lawyer is here. A little cocktail for courage, When you do this, you feel like a bird. You're weightless, you're very high, and you see the world the way a bird does. It's a long way up there. First spread that, You want me here. The ship's boy is sent up first. Then it's time for her 73 meters ascent. That's a new one. Go, sweetheart. I've seen her do this so many times, The whole adventure lasted Get down. -Can I buy you a drink? -I'm getting better at this. That same evening, He wants to show how proud he is Excuse me, sorry. For him, the boat is, above all, It's nice that all these people They're all very accomplished lawyers. They can let their hair down, They can have a good time, and they can see something This is an opportunity for them -It makes you happy? Bill Duker has big plans for his new boat. In a few weeks, he's planning To Monaco, The small principality is home to the world's largest concentration It's also the rallying point The Norwegian Espen Oeino in this yachting capital. He's a highly requested naval architect We're lucky to have our office right here With the boats just in front, due south. Boats as far as the eye can see. There is a concentration of yachts here, but also yachting professionals. There are 300 companies here Come with me. Here we're in the design office on different projects. Espen Oeino designed ships He employs about 20 engineers What started his career was this boat, The first mega yacht in history. A 126 meters boat built in 2003 that belongs to the billionaire, the co-founder of Microsoft. A ship equipped with three submarines More recently, 15,500 tons or 40 Airbus A380s. Here are some pictures Ninety crew members are needed It belongs to a Russian billionaire. Espen Oeino always starts a yacht a few strokes of pencil on paper. It's a bit like haute couture. We start with a general plan for the boat, Then from that, we transpose it into 2D Everything comes together like a puzzle. It takes between three to five years from the first meeting Espen Oeino is a little A mix of audacity Do you still work to bring in customers? No, they come on their own. We don't even have a website. It's a small world It's a pyramid. The higher you are in the pyramid, and the more they know each other. In a week, the designer has to attend Not far away in Monaco, Sabrina Monteleone is also preparing Did you prepare the plates? The leather samples? She sells accessories Her brand is simply called If you take a boat and turn it over, Everything that moves on a boat. From the teaspoon to the sofa After a career in Pret-a-Porter, she switched Today she knows all the codes. It's the men who choose. It's funny because in the home, Boats are very masculine because a boat is very expensive, They need control over it, They're the ones who decide So much easier. After Dubai, the New York of the Middle East, where we find the Norwegian designer, I can't because I have a client meeting I'd love to, but unfortunately, I can't. I'm flying to London Then I'm flying to Geneva We could have a late lunch in London. Perhaps on Friday All right, thanks, I'll get back to you. -Bye. Sorry, that was a broker who wants to organize It's always the same, He's there, and I'm here. When I'm there, he's here. He's here for only 24 hours, participating in an unmissable event The Emirate of Dubai is the Mecca The boat show has been held here one of the largest boat gatherings It's no coincidence. Half the world's largest yachts belong Each year, the Emir of Dubai himself, honors the event with his presence accompanied by his court and his bodyguards. This is the aft deck. Espen Oeino does not have a stand. He uses one of his latest creations, When you sit over here like this, Nautical shows are opportunities We are fortunate today It's not always the case the more private they are. People don't really want because it's their home after all. This boat belongs to a German billionaire Its price is EUR80 million. With a 7,000 horsepower engine, it can go up to 25 knots, It is one of the most powerful and one of the most luxurious as well. According to the naval architect, Is the myth of the old, For 10 years now, that reflect the fact People make money earlier and earlier, The average age When I started 30 years ago, Today we have clients At sunset, the visitors increase. You see the boat with the lights and the music. -It's good, how are you? Each of these men is a potential customer. For Espen Oeino, Now he's putting We're having a cool boat a cool one, you'll see. -I will see it. -I will see it. -I can't talk about it but I always do. -Is that somebody you know very well? The show is coming alive, Here it's all about nightlife. Before leaving again the next morning, Hi, Edward, how are you? I've brought you some friends. Come on, come on. Michael Breman is the sales manager a company located One out of three mega yachts comes Images filmed inside are rare. As with all private yachts, I don't know how many boats Don't tell everyone, I have to talk to you. We're going to talk about serious things -You have a microphone? Why do you have to remove the microphone? Because we're going Serious things. In this world, as soon as one speaks lips are sealed. In Dubai, on the pontoons, but these ships also have to be decorated. That's the job of Sabrina Monteleone, Here, she's in her element. Hi. -Sabrina from Monte Carlo. I know you, No wonder, beautiful girl, that's why. -Monte Carlo. This man is a Saudi billionaire who owns one of the biggest yachts This gentleman is the owner of the boat, which is docked in Monaco all year long. Now I think it's in a refit His ship, the Lady Moura, one of the first mega yachts in the world. It was launched in 1990. The owner, Sir Al-Rashid, is an influential advisor with a fortune estimated She's going to take good care of him. You are boatless now. We are missing the boat It's strange without your boat. It's going to come soon, You know your boat -There is a stamp. -The prince put it on a stamp. Here's the stamp. It was printed in 2013 This morning, Sabrina Monteleone My Kuwaiti man is lost. The problem is, he's on the other side. I don't understand what happened, Oh, but he'll get here eventually. This is a client He saw that I was here, and now he's lost. He's a good customer. He's been trying to find the boat show so I don't understand. After an hour, I have him here with me. Oh, Michelle's found him. Perfect, we found him. Finally, you made it. [French spoken audio] Very easy. The man wearing the cap made a two-hour flight The young woman has set up her showroom Everything you can see, Every single piece on this boat. You remember We sent you something like this color I'll make a new order, We will sit there and we will see. All the furniture. Don't let his casual look fool you. He belongs He comes every season and buys nonstop. Throughout the year, I send him things, then he sends me photos Now he wants to order more, but he's a very nice man. He got lost but he's very nice. It'll be all right. Where is he? Here he is. What do you think, not bad, huh? -No, it's amazing. -Yes. -How many of them? -Do you mean a pair? -You have this color already. Maybe we can take the same. It's matching, I sent you the picture, and the boats, everything. That's why I like to work with Sabrina, It's good because every year I buy from you. -You buy? You come and you know what is nice, &quot;Okay, I want this, this, this, and this.&quot; It's quite good. It's quite fun. Parasols, sofas, armchairs. In a few minutes, for more than EUR200,000. The decorator's time has not been wasted. He's a very nice customer. It's great that he's happy He always sends me photos on WhatsApp. What I always say is Alex is 36 years old, He doesn't own a yacht Good afternoon, how are you? -Good, yourself? -Hey, how's it going? -You're the yard guy? -I've seen you with the boys. -Busy show? -I'm doing great and yourself? Just sent you a request. He's very outgoing, He's very famous. In fact, Alex, known as the yacht guy, Born in Brooklyn, for the last two years, he's been making a living He has almost a million followers and regularly posts pictures He also makes videos of yachts. He travels the world invited He's what's called an influencer. I'm here thanks to DIBS, who has brought me in to come and bring exposure to the show. I'm selling exposure, The majority of the people and probably young kids. If one percent of one million people that's still a huge number. Do they actually pay you? -This is how you earn? This is how I earn my living, It's great. How often you get to travel the world, spend time on board yachts, This morning, the sales manager Do you have to say it out loud? I've got to go on board and do my thing. Which boat do you want me -The 100. You haven't done it much on the 100, We are now live, what's up, everybody? We are live We are going to take a tour It's one of their newest lines, I am here with Mahmoud, He's going to give us a tour -That sound good? I'll spin you guys around When was this launched? For a live 15-minute visit on Instagram, The miracle of social networks, Two thousand one hundred viewers, nice. -That's awesome. -Charge your phone. Do you want me to catch back up at you? I want to go Then I want to post it on Facebook, -Sounds good. Perfect, so now I get to do it This is the thing so everybody thinks, &quot;You're out there just hanging out.&quot; I'll get on a boat I have to go through and take photos and then I got to go and take photos -This is where you go to work. Alex will probably never have enough but no matter, what he enjoys This is a lifestyle for the one percent, If you're blessed enough then you're blessed, that's just it. At nightfall, Dubai is transformed. The yacht guy is invited on one of the largest boats -Hi, how are you? I'm Alex, the yacht guy. Supposed to be arriving today -We're good? -We're good to go? -Thank you very much. How are you? -Thank you. We are here Coming on board, It's supposed to be and all of the UAE. It is huge. We'll take you around. Ilona, the owner's Russian wife, will give him a tour It's specially constructed for parties. -You guys do hookah? We're on board Lotus. It's got to be the largest barge -It's great. -Insane. -One thousand people. Wow, this is probably the biggest one -Yes These guys take party bars In Dubai, with some exceptions. This party boat has a special license. It's an open bar One last selfie and his workday is over. Alex leaves the yacht before setting out for a mini-cruise Captain, Of course, it's because it's the biggest Even when you've traveled navigation in the heart Like when this boat goes under a bridge. Oh, wow, captain. Captain, whoa, whoa! Captain, captain, captain. For one week, the world's biggest yachts at the foot of these buildings. Before returning the Caribbean and the Mediterranean. Back to Monaco. In the bay off the principality, we find the Sybaris He made a special trip to attend a social event. You guys didn't know Off to the Port of Monaco. For the occasion, We're here. When he arrives on the dock, the director of the Yacht Club of Monaco, -Ready? Ready for the season? This is the commodore No, I'm not a commodore, Secretary general, same thing. He wants to show the Tuiga, a century-old sailboat. It was a wreck when it was purchased who completely restored it It's the height of refinement and one of the prize The selection process Yes, it's quite hard, Like for months or years? The minimum is two years. Thank you, this was a treat. You don't have to own a yacht On the other hand, According to our sources, they are EUR9,000. This gentleman's club like this Italian lady, Paula Traufiro. I'm pleased to welcome Paula. Today, the Yacht Club on the occasion Here it is. It's docked right in front of the club. It cost a modest sum of EUR30 million. It measures 33 meters. Here, it's a small model. -Ciao, Bill. Bill is the boat's unofficial godfather. -Grazie, thank you. This is my very good friend This is all carbon and titanium, It was quite a nice adventure, Anyway, we are here happy and proud. Hi, nice to see you. The lawyer invited friends for the ship's inauguration. Like with a new house, In the kitchen. -Let's go. Everything is in this wall, I would think. A lot of space down, a key for once. The fridge for the day from Sub-Zero. To continue the celebration, Invite some of Paula's friends This time on his yacht. -You live on the floor. Victoria. Sorry, I'd love to give you the tour, but maybe first it's appropriate -Absolutely. You have two. Make sure you have champagne, though. -Hip-hip. Big fan. For the American billionaire, to display the size -It's late and I like the softness. -Alligators. It's not a lie. Obviously, the alligator trunks as does his painting from New York. This is a street artist who's the most famous The billionaire can't resist the pleasure I have an apartment in New York. I have an apartment in Miami In New York, Miami, New York, Miami mostly. I've bought an apartment in Rome. Now I'm a resident in Miami Beach, but I have an apartment I have a house in upstate New York, The cocktail does not last The guests leave before nightfall. Bill Duker acquired He's already put it up for sale for EUR90 million We join up again with the Dutch Group, who are having I wanted to do this once in my life, The advantage of the expedition yachts, is that they allow access and hard-to-reach locales The yacht is anchored The water temperature is only two degrees. It won't deter the friends of Jan, Jan, I hope you're coming with us. No, I've done it many times, Great weather, great weather. Cold. Cold water. [Foreign language spoken audio] After the swim, and a drink to warm up. This evening, the mega yacht At this latitude during the summer, This stop overs the occasion Captain Albert, in his beautiful uniform, after spending six months on the yacht. He's turning the wheel over Both are paid around EUR15,000 per month. [Foreign language spoken audio] All the information you need Make sure you make a copy every day, We are telling him everything how they work Just the handover of the operational state I haven't been on board for a long time for the last few months I'm going to leave you now, Cheers. I forgot to give you this. South Africa, the Philippines, the Ukraine, the crew includes a half dozen as is often the case on these mega yachts. Lisa, all the best, take care, -Thank you. [Dutch spoken audio] -Bye-bye. Bye. Why are you crying? Because the captain is leaving. -He's an awesome guy. The small port is not far. No GPS. We will try to find you out on the radar, -Are you there? Bye, captain, Bon voyage. Bye. When casting off that night, in navigating this mega yacht. A thick fog has arrived. The fishermen hurry to get back to port. They must leave immediately in the ice for several days. Jan, the owner, decides The problem is that he'll need You can advance 20 meters, Two crewmen were dispatched Reporting distances now to the bridge. The visibility is a little bit hard now. If it gives you the right distances, It all looks pretty clear ahead of us, The ice on the surface Underwater, it might have the height Keep coming to the port, They could rip the hull off the ship. Therefore, it's necessary to navigate How many meters? It'd be on the starboard side, on the port side. The visibility is just over 100 meters. Just over 100 meters. Jan, the owner is still at the wheel Finally, after four hours the sailing becomes smooth again Everyone is relieved. I think this is This is now very interesting I will go in the Jacuzzi very soon. Very, very soon. Jan's latest pride and joy can be found It's become a must-have accessory a mini submarine. Today, the son of one for a license to navigate this machine. Turn it on to see. Yes, it's okay. The owner even brought in an instructor, so he could take his test. Good, it's completely different and you're comfortable. This is around EUR2.5 million. Just taking the submarine out of the hold and putting it in the water takes no fewer The machine is operated by four propellers That's good. Hello, come check, please. Loud and clear, do you read me? Are you going to close your edge? Diving can begin. However, once underwater, We're far from the crystal-clear waters There we're now at five meters. Visibility is really poor here. -Is this a brand? The instructor checks When you're not able check if your pressure relief Which one is there? That's the one above the gauge here. He's passed the test with flying colors. On the surface, a surprise awaits. A glass of champagne Last stop off the tiny village To impress his friends, to give them a barbecue lunch. Spoon and the other one. It's Marilyn, the head hostess who has to manage -Napkins. I've got water. A lighter. Luckily, the chef is used They have everything they need Lunch should start soon, Marilyn is running in all directions. Marilyn is South African, Can we have a bread knife? Romola, do you have a bread knife? The 30 members of the crew communicate and sometimes it's a bit chaotic. Could you please meet them at the The whole team is on the same channel. That's what dogs do. Right now they're talking, You have to talk as little as possible. -Thank you very much. -You asked for the plates, hot plates? Soon everything is ready for the barbecue, One problem, the owner, We planned to eat around 6:00 PM, This is what we call standby, we wait. As long as he's not here, It's the boss and he's with his friends, so the right thing to do After waiting for over 30 minutes, Marilyn learns by radio Now, time to get moving. It's all about communication. He'll be here in two minutes, If there's no communication, If we're doing a barbecue, he gets here Working as a team is important. -Welcome back. You have two hats now. -Here. Welcome. -How was the diving? Nice, it was cold. It was a long time driving. Having patiently waited for the owner, It's an ultimate luxury They can dine on the terrace. -Blanket for you, sir? Please, thank you. -Cheese. Enjoy. We understand and eating a barbecue outside That is absolute luxury. This dream vacation is not within reach When he's not inviting his friends aboard, the owner of the Legend rents the boat all included.