You would think that when strapped to a gurney, expire, you'd want to say something nice to the family of the victim that is watching Then again, if you were an innocent person cocktail, you might not be in the mood to You might also be a ruthless and heartless last time with your monstrous voice. As you'll now find out, that has happened, hearing what they said. First up - Cobb was executed by lethal injection in 2013 His crime was walking into a convenience store It didn't stop there. They took two female employees and one male They took them to a secluded place and shot they were all dead. Only the man actually died. His last words were very strange, starting He then finished with something very surprising: humanity has come to will come to an end," pass away, "Wow. This is great. Thank you, warden." This next one is slightly more gruesome. John Wayne Gacy won't go into detail about what he did. He murdered 33 people in the 1970s and hid He is one of the USA's worst serial killers. His last words show that he had no remorse Those were: word otherwise the video will get demonetized, There's no cursing in this next one, but dark. Peter Kurten He was a German serial killer at a time when That was the early 20th century. He killed at least nine people and did terrible One other thing was that he drank the blood named, "The Vampire of Dusseldorf." In 1931, he was beheaded by guillotine and psychiatrist and said, "Tell me, after my able to hear, at least for a moment, the sound my neck? That would be the pleasure to end all pleasures." Before the blade came down the psychiatrist Aileen Wuornos a Hollywood movie called Monster. She worked selling her body on the streets She had claimed she was defending herself She is now known as one of America's worst She was executed in 2002 and just before that She said: rock, and I'll be back like Independence Day Like the movie, big mother ship and all. I'll be back." Sticking with serial murderers, this next Carl Panzram the start of the 20th century. He committed murders, among many other despicable He said he had killed 22 people in all. He was sentenced to be hanged in 1930 and on his head he spat in his face. He was asked if he had any last words. This is how he replied: could kill a dozen men while you're screwing In case you're wondering, a "Hoosier" Up next is arguably the funniest on this list. James French mid-60s in the USA. One of those people was his cellmate. The two didn't get along very well. His actual last words when sitting in the else to say." But the last thing he said to a reporter was "If I were covering my execution, do you tomorrow?&quot; The reporter said, "What?" He answered, "French...Fries." Yep, that was amusing. We think this next guy was also attempting Jeffery Matthews a robbery and he was executed in 2011 in Oklahoma His last words aren't exactly frightening, perhaps a little bit shocking. He said a few things, but his very last words "I think that governor's phone is broke. He hasn't called yet." Robert Charles Comer At the end he either had a twisted sense of In 1987, he killed a man, but he had also his life. When asked if he wanted to say something at "Go Raiders." That's in reference to an American football Such a statement you might assume encapsulates and his victims. Robert Alton Harris multiple murders. He had been a career criminal with a long is why he got the gas chamber. He was incredibly heartless if you read his At the end he became poetic, with his last "You can be a king or a street sweeper, He's not wrong about that. He's not as amusing as the next person, Vincent Gutierrez being found guilty of killing a man. Gutierrez had been trying to steal the man's He was under the age of 18 when it happened. He said a few things for his last words and finished it off by saying: one." John William Rook the reason he committed a murder in 1980 in He had 12 hotdogs for his last meal and then them and said, "Freedom, freedom at last." James W. Rodgers a fellow worker at a uranium mine in 1957. The two had fallen out over quite a big issue, properly greased. They didn't see eye to eye regarding the He was sentenced to death by firing squad. When Rodgers was ready to have the firing any final words. His reply was: vest." Charlie Livingston in Houston during a robbery. He didn't seem to see the point of final point, saying: not to make a speech. That's it.&quot; That was simple enough, quite different from Douglas Roberts and he had quite a lot to say on the day of He'd been found guilty of kidnapping, robbery, When the time came for his last words he said: stand way too long. Before I leave, I want to tell you all. When I die, bury me deep, lay two speakers and rock and roll me when I'm dead." The media later reported that he was "upbeat Frederick Wood sense of humor. He was put to the electric chair in 1963 for When asked what his final words would be, "Gents, this is an educational project. You are about to witness the damaging effect The next couple of people you could say are Mary Blandy is the story of an English woman whose father She looked to poison to deal with this problem. She was hanged in 1752, and at the time she She was worried people might look up that after she was dead. Still, she told the executioner: hang me high." Sarah Good trials in Massachusetts in 1692. Good was in her thirties when she was accused All 12 jurors agreed that she had to be a She was accused of lacking in self-discipline She had only challenged locals regarding their said made her in league with Satan. The Reverend Nicholas Noyes was there at the and she of course refused. Her last words to him were: and if you take away my life God will give Twenty-five years later, Noyes had an aneurysm and choked on it. We should say this is what is called, "popular terrible we imagine many people might hope While these witch trials were madness to the sued the courts for what had happened to her, Now we go back to the present day and a couple eye. Clarence Ray Allen three people. He was executed in 2006 when he was the ripe He was also very sick at the time and a lot since it seemed he didn't have much time His last words were: Melvin White murdering a child and he was executed in Texas We won't go into details, but what he did Not many folks felt sorry for this man as drugs. He did say he was sorry for what he did, and "All right, Warden, let's give them what The next couple of people you might say didn't Torrey Twane McNabb in the state of Alabama. He had been convicted of killing a police He and his lawyers had tried to stop it going and usual, but that didn't work. He went to the gurney an angry man and with the air. He then said: I got no tears. I am unafraid. To the state of Alabama, I hate you... I hate you. I hate you." Thomas J. Grasso until last, and this was the execution of of elderly women. He was given lethal injection in the state He wrote a short poem before his death and "The warden will read my last creed, As the poison drips into my veins, But his last words were in the form of a very We guess he was being ironic. Those words were: I want the press to know this." Our last words on this topic are that you of The Infographics Show right now. Either this video here or click on this one Time is running out so choose now!