Hello Health Champions.So many people are it so easy to do, but other people are afraid around. So today I want to clarify some of the best length of time to do your fasting. the whole concept so we can get comfortable about that allows us to store something. We use some of we can store. We can store a tiny little bit as fat, because it's the most energy dense to do it. And the way that we store it whether we stored it as fat, the mediator is insulin. Insulin into cells. Now here is the big question. Why of like, you put things you put fat in the body your pantry. Why would you do that? And the later point. So then when we don't eat now that fat we can take that stuff out of the we put things in so that we can take it out. sort of balance in this system. And when you is a very very normal process put in we take been working historically? So these guys lived And we don't know exactly how often they ate extensive pantries or freezers or refrigerators could store. So on a bad day they probably day they probably went some time without, and or maybe three meals. And then humans developed societies. So from recorded history up until everyone had the luxury of eating 3 meals, three meals. But then in the last forty years or so the three meals are not enough, that we need some extra fuel and we need to top it off walk around with a sippy cup they have their and we're kind of used to having always having we have the development of all these fancy in there is a disguised sugar bomb. And what's is the two things happened. We started more sugar and more processed foods and then shot up like a straight line or even exponentially is strange, what's really strange is what we've gotten the idea to never ever empty the pantry, right? and putting things in is a good thing but ideas that breakfast is the most important means to break your fast it has come to mean after you get up. And then we tell the kids have breakfast otherwise you can't perform you eat breakfast and of course as a result and sugar and really nothing useful for the idea that we would need to eat every 2 to that we would be better off doing that or 2 to 3 hours. But what about sleep? Do you have middle of the night and eat something? Can during the power out. Millions of people didn't to death in the middle of the night.&quot; No never every 2 hours there is no health benefit there's 2 to 3 hours. Let's break it down and understand It is the period where you don't eat. So assuming that you sleep of fasting and if you have your late-night you probably still yet somewhere around eight if you don't have that late night snack but if you have dinner a little earlier you have balance by having 12 to 14 hours for most problems are avoided. Then what a lot of people is that there's really not much need to eat meal at noon and dinner at eight, you have 16 hours 18 hours so it's not really that strange and even just easy but it's so easy that they it or why they would start having three meals about fat storing versus fat burning and you look at the obesity epidemic it's obvious than we have in fat burning so the red above below is fat-burning so if you go to bed on process that food that food is going to be you still in fat storing then you get a few fat burning but then as soon as you wake up snack and your lunch and so on and for most putting stuff in the pantry. You're never taking have a few minutes at best where you do some to that point especially not if they're eating meals a day and you skipped breakfast it might of sleep is probably still some fat storing you get up now you get all those extra hours you're not eating so many meals throughout in during the day as well so you have more you're allowing your body to clean out the using it instead of just adding more and more What if you go a couple of days or even longer? that you don't eat, right? This seems really that the more time you go without eating the benefit of course the longer you go without drop so it's not just about the weight, but it's type 2 diabetes and metabolic syndrome. The Then how long do you go? Well that depends so forth but basically if your goal is weight your weight is. Have you reached a plateau And the same exact thing holds true for insulin mechanism this weight is put there in the weight you have stubborn insulin And other disease if you want to reverse that. If you have met your goals but you want longevity or if you just want to increase talked about living longer but what's the are riddled with disease and suffering. What a hundred and twenty and be healthy and enjoy that virtually vast majority of people somewhere 60 70 80 their feeding window down to six or eight to be 16 to 18 hours. Most people will get people then just do that and be consistent works for you but if that doesn't work for plateau if you needed to happen faster then the next step is one meal a day which means that then we're talkin maybe 42 or 48 hours and be because if you start off with 16:8 or 18:6, and your body gets used to it, then it's not that difficult to have dinner one day and make it till bedtime the next day go to bed The beauty of this is that that fasting period includes two nights so you've slept twice in that period And if you're used to not having breakfast then have 42 hours. If you want to you can now hours. It's not as hard as it sounds and the not something most people have to do all the to break up that plateau it's going to break to make things happen faster for the vast thing happens to people is once they get past the worst has passed that they're not as hungry the groove they're getting the flow of things of hunger are less and shorter so it's not hours and just do one more night and now you're go as long as you feel good. As long as you're As long as you have some energy. Don't go run just for daily life, people find that they can go 3 to 7 days and if you hit a point where something. The only thing to make sure of is and minerals because you will be losing a resistance and type 2 diabetes then the exact you have stubborn weight then you have stubborn But there are even more reasons to fast you go with fasting the more autophagy you When you're fasting your body get energy from more fat burn but the most precious resource used for building blocks and enzymes and hormones so your body has to make new ones and if you're somewhere. So protein becomes very very precious well muscles is the obvious choice but the those to do the work. So it up-regulates the people on cleaning duty and that goes out looking for debris and waste materials and you're up-regulating not just the cleaning crew but sagging skin and all sorts of dead cell and at finding those things and as a result now and blood pressure and even think like The brain and nervous system has a very really the only thing that's going to significantly the nervous system. That is also very powerful you want to do if you get a concussion is going to help clean up the damage and there's of fasting and autophagy can help reduce and There are so many benefits to fasting that maintenance so now we're doing it for prevention And now I would suggest that you do a combination once a day, twice a day, 3 times a day. If you easily. If you don't want to lose weight, then don't do so much of the OMAD. You do more of the 16:8. If you tend to put on weight if of the OMAD and less of the 16:8. I have if I do one meal a day, for any length cuz it's hard to eat that much food in one than I want to be. And if you get 16 to 24 going to get a fair amount of autophagy of autophagy. So that's why I suggest you do on how you feel how much weight whatever what right for you and like I said you just skip next day and you're at 42 hours and now exponentially increased your autophagy. But then I also believe bit longer once in awhile. I think now you you could maybe prevent cancer or reverse that indicate that might be the case and about a year maybe once a year, You do a little bit three days I would go 3 to 4 days for go longer than that's fine too. If you enjoyed want to master health and understand more hit that bell and turn on all the notifications