Have you ever wondered how scientists and the width of a strand of DNA? How do we even take pictures of such nanoscopic Well, that's the role of the electron microscope sees the micro and nanoscopic world. Don't believe us? Take this European Peacock Butterfly for example. When we zoom in on its wing using a light tiny overlapping scales. But, when we zoom in using an electron microscope, and zooming in further, we see how the scales to anything that humans manufacture. Although this wing may not be directly related scientists and engineers have been using electron smaller and smaller transistors, and with in millions of times to where it's able There are two main types of electron microscopes. The Scanning Electron Microscope or SEM is wing, or the bristles of a used toothbrush. See, here are cells from your body, and all It's gross, but let's move on. Scanning Electron Microscopes have a maximum Meaning the spacing between two adjacent features 1 nanometer. The other type is the Transmission Electron of structures that are inside materials, much bones inside our bodies. For example, TEMs are used to take the pictures However, in other domains of science TEMs mitochondria, the powerhouse of the cell, Transmission Electron Microscopes are typically up to 50 picometers, which is roughly the One quick note is that this video's sponsor, a basic 3D model of one of their transmission of the complex technology involved. Let's first focus on the TEMs as they are technology, and later we'll provide an overview And note that there's considerable overlap The basic idea behind a TEM is that it generates the speed of light, thus creating a beam of Next a series of magnetic lenses focuses the or transmits these electrons through the specimen Depending on the different densities and materials as they pass through it, thereby imprinting the beam of electrons. The imprinted beam of electrons is then magnified magnified 50,000 times using a set of projector At this point, the imprinted image is 5 or captured by a high-resolution camera sensor We'll explore the detailed engineering in why do we have to go through the hassle of just use light? Well, visible light is physically limited and, if you try to zoom in further the image details. On the other hand, electrons can reach meaningful Why then is light physically limited? Well, let's return to this image of the on its wings. This image was captured with a camera, this these images were captured with an electron Let's consider two features from the specimen Visible light has an average wavelength of between these two points. Due to the physics of waves, as light hits creating a pair of propagating waves with of the two waves. If the features are substantially closer than diffraction pattern will make the two features In short, visible light can't really resolve apart. However, in this electron microscope, electrons and have a wavelength of 2.5 picometers which light's wavelength. In principle, such an electron microscope apart, but, due to the magnetic lenses' around 50 picometers, which is enough to see Also, if you're wondering about the scale here's a comparison of the size of each Note that there are many more details and and thrown into the creator's comments which That said, let's now dive into the complex this Transmission Electron Microscope. We'll begin at the top with a device called electrons. The basic principle is that negatively charged fields. Here we have a tungsten crystal needle, and This extraction ring is connected to positive charged electrons in the tungsten are pulled The electric field's effect on the electrons crystal, which is only a few nanometers wide, the tungsten. The next step is to accelerate them to 70% To do this we use a series of metal rings of volts apart from one another. And, just like before, these positively charged charged electrons which are accelerated through There are two key reasons for the incredible First is so they can travel through the specimen, lattice or something else that has been sliced and second, as mentioned earlier, electrons they are, the shorter the wavelength and the One important detail is that when the microscope to relativistic speeds, vacuum pumps are used creating a vacuum, similar to the vacuum of This is because incredibly fast-moving electrons collide with air molecules and thus ruin the Now that we have a beam of electrons, we'll are essentially three sets: the condenser, The role of the condenser magnetic lenses and project them onto the sample so that they to several nanometers depending on the desired Additionally, the microscope uses apertures, filter out any electrons that are fanning optical axis, resulting in electrons more specimen. The specimen is placed on a holder which is chamber. To see different aspects of the specimen such or translate the specimen in all three directions, the X-axis, and with some holders, also the With this we can get images exactly perpendicular inside. The incredibly small beam then hits the specimen of materials, thus scattering the electrons on the transmitted electron beam. The next lenses, the objective and a series and magnify the miniscule image imprinted few centimeters. This process is separated into two parts. First the objective lens - often considered the image by 40 times and its optical aberrations Then the projector lenses magnify the image What are optical aberrations and why is 2 Well, let's look at this image of 962 blurry With today's technology, the TEM's ability by the electrons in the beam, but rather by that they add to the image-imprinted electron There are a few main types of aberrations won't explore further, but the main idea is far from trivial and the aberrations add magnification. The projector lenses magnify what has already the added aberrations, and this second magnification Therefore, a considerable amount of science aberrations introduced by the objective lens, scale resolution of the microscope. One thing you're probably wondering is why or camera lenses and how do magnetic lenses Well, inside the lens is a coil of copper When a current is run through these coils, This magnetic field is then routed through into an optical column. These magnetic fields are then used to change the electrons towards the center, or optical The physics at play is the Lorentz Law. To summarize, the force on the electron is velocity vector crossed with B, the magnetic In short, if the electron were to have a velocity by the magnetic field down towards the center. However, if the electron were traveling perfectly wouldn't experience any Lorentz force from down the center. As a result, the magnetic lenses act as convex down to a focal point. As the electrons continue their trajectory a magnified image. This magnification depends on the strength lenses, and the position of the detectors Let's move further down the microscope and There are two separate systems. First, we have a phosphorescent screen which hit it and a camera is used to view the screen. This system is used to align the microscope When you're ready to capture a high-resolution of the way, and the image is captured using camera that has a higher resolution and dynamic The purpose of having two systems is that to ensure that the electron beam and magnetic focused beam could damage the sensitive CMOS We've covered many key parts of the microscope, modules that provide additional features. For example, there are X-Ray detectors, energy correctors, mechanisms to hold and adjust lenses, tons of circuitry to control the magnetic pumps, power supplies, and much more. Additionally, the entire microscope sits on Undoubtedly, this microscope represents an and we're thankful to this video's sponsor, to look inside. In addition to electron microscopes, Thermo equipment such as centrifuges, incubators, they make PCR systems that can be used to Undeniably, Thermo Fisher products are some labs across the world. Thermo Fisher isn't sponsoring this video electron microscope, but rather, just like the future of humanity lies in the hands of discover, innovate, and engineer solutions If you're pursuing a career in science or Scientific. You too could work on creating the tools that Now that we understand the transmission electron Microscope or SEM which Thermo Fisher Scientific The main idea is that, instead of illuminating all at once, with a SEM we create a focused we're trying to magnify. These electrons then bounce off, and, in the electrons and X-Rays, which we measure to chemical composition. For example, this process was used to create this salt crystal. The issue with SEM is that it only takes images is limited by how small we can create the penetrate into the sample, or the so-called The practical resolution is typically around Additionally, a useful variation of the Transmission is called an STEM, where the S is for scanning. This microscope is similar to the TEM, but and then use deflection coils to scan the The benefit of STEM is that it has a different when paired with an x-ray detector, is capable More expensive TEMs typically have the optical and STEM, and the user can toggle between We're sure you have many questions; feel we'll try to answer them in the top pinned Also, one of the scientists from Thermo Fisher us to research and write this script, has of additional information, so take a look We believe the future will require a strong thankful to all our Patreon and YouTube Membership If you want to support us on YouTube Memberships, description. This is Branch Education, and we create 3D that drives our modern world. Watch another Branch video by clicking one Thanks for watching to the end!