A portion of this video was sponsored by Salesforce. More about Salesforce at the end of the show. The first piece of evidence that showed our distant galaxies. If you look at the spectrum of the sun you And we see those lines in the spectra from wavelengths, towards the red end of the spectrum. So we say their light is red-shifted. Now the usual explanation for this redshift expanding space, the photons themselves become "stretched." So short wavelengths get longer. This is known as cosmological redshift. The explanation is fairly intuitively satisfying second though. But the problem is if you do give it a second If expanding space can stretch something like Something that's so incredibly tiny, does Is expanding space stretching stars and galaxies? And what about you - are you expanding with To answer these questions we've got to take Physicists actually talk about three different Doppler Redshift, where observers moving relative wavelengths. Gravitational Redshift, where observers at measure different wavelengths and Cosmological Redshift, where observers exchanging in an expanding universe measure different These three cases appear very different and so how does each redshift actually occur? Let's start with a photon in a gravitational There is this famous experiment conducted up and down a 22m tower at Harvard. Now, they used gamma rays but I'll represent They found that photons detected at the top the source by the exact amount predicted by General Relativity exaggerating the effect so you can see it). Now where along the photon's path does this Well it seems to happen continuously. The photon loses a little bit of energy, each Meaning that the photon in the middle of the Now according to Einstein's equivalence is indistinguishable from being in a rocket So we could do the same experiment in a rocketship If we send blue photons from the back of the the front. And in the middle of the ship they would be This is exactly what we saw at rest in a gravitational Now imagine there are a line of external observers to each other and they can all see into the Let's also say the rocket is initially at instant the photon is released. Now since both observers are at rest at this as having the exact same wavelength - it's But what about when the photon reaches the Well we know someone inside will see it as But what about a stationary observer outside? Well to them the photon has just been moving so it must look blue - just as blue as it So what's the deal? How can the same photon look green and blue Has the equivalence principle been violated? The answer is no. It matters a lot to this measurement, who Consider this: after the photon is emitted so by the time the photon reaches the middle high velocity relative to the source when and relative to the observers outside the So it makes sense that the photon as measured - this is the Doppler redshift because the observer away from the source. By the time the photon makes it to the top faster and this is why it appears red, but to a stationary observer outside, well This thought experiment shows us that wavelength photons. They are properties of the photon-observer Now let's recreate the Harvard tower experiment. Observers in the building see the photon redshifted But here's a question for you: what would Well they would be just like the stationary up. The physics of these two situations are identical! So they would measure no redshift - to them What I want to show is that there aren't - there is only one. We've seen that gravitational redshift, when we do the same analysis in an accelerating So what about cosmological redshift? Well, for this we have to zoom waaaay out our local cluster of galaxies. We want to zoom so far out that the galaxies in a fluid: The cosmic fluid. At this scale, we can treat the whole universe say it is homogeneous. And just as you don't notice the individual we don't notice individual galaxies in the And the cosmic fluid looks the same in every - it's said to be isotropic. Now what you'll notice is that the cosmic It doesn't matter where you look, you see The density of the cosmic fluid is decreasing And this is the basic property of an expanding We can draw some coordinates on the universe. We could pick any different coordinate system to make a coordinate system that expands with So there will be certain observers whose coordinates And these are known as co-moving observers fluid. By the way on Earth we are not a co-moving Our galaxy is moving at 600 km/s relative Now let's pick two co-moving observers a a photon. Its wavelength will be stretched by the amount journey. This is the standard picture of cosmological But now consider a bunch of other co-moving Each one absorbs the photon and instantaneously Now, each successive observer will measure before them, the photon stretching out just as you'd But the reason they would give for this redshift To each observer, their neighbouring co-moving them in locally flat space-time. So they would attribute the increase in wavelength motion between them. The entirety of the cosmological redshift result of a long series of Doppler shifts. What we've seen is redshifting is not something Instead it depends on what's happening to of that photon. Because of this, there are actually not three there's only one, described by a single They only look different depending on your Now, it can be convenient to talk about expanding exchanging a photon over vast distances in then the photon's wavelength is stretched its journey - that's nice and simple. But you can equally well describe this redshift space required. The misconception is to think that because the universe, that means 'expanding space' apart. That's not how it works. Space is not like that. So let's come back to the central question the universe? The answer is no. Because: homogeneous, I mean matter is condensed down And the universe is not isotropic, looking down down. The basic assumptions we made about our expanding I mean the local spacetime curvature is dominated So what if we took you out into deep space, Then would you expand? Still no. because your body is held together But what if we could turn off the electromagnetic that don't interact. Well in that case... over time you would expand. But only because our universe is now dominated So the take home message of this video is is expanding and pulling on everything, stretching So molecules are not expanding, and neither are you... except under extraordinary circumstances. -Why's it red? -That tells you it's recording. Here we go. Hey, this portion of the video was sponsored expand your business. The world is transforming right now, a lot from anywhere, accelerating the shift to doing Salesforce Essentials can help your business For example, you can make your website work from Salesforce on your site. You can then generate new business and develop CRM. To get a message out or share a special promo, specific customers you want, whether that's You can also help customers find answers with Or meet customers where they are by connecting Follow the link down in the description to I want to thank Salesforce for sponsoring you for watching. -Who? -That's where you push the button again