GITA WIRJAWAN: I'm so honored today the yogic mystic visionary who is also Sadhguru, it's such an honor. SADHGURU: Namaskaram, and you're the first man - Not a female unfortunately. - No, usually female names This is proper Gita itself. - I'll tell you a story, still are, my father passed, But in the 60s - So, out of their disappointment So they prepared but something else came up. I wanna ask you The first is relevant to how you grew up. You've referred to your great grandmother - No, not a role model. If she was my role model - But tell us a little bit. - Probably there are two ways One thing is, even when I was my thought process was just So I don't know which is the reality: whether I did not grow up one way or the other, except while my physical ability to and interactions with life. As a person, what I was then, The only thing is, at that time, made me a bit serious because or rather I could not without being withdrawn If I had to look at the leaf If I look at a man, woman, or a child Maybe my perception as a whole that today I can pay attention at that time if I pay attention only that was there, Even now I made like this, if I close my eyes, I could sit like this till I fall dead, because deep down within me I have no need to do anything, Well, what's needed That's why there's no burden, doesn't matter how much activity. There is no burden because I'm still the same four or five-year-old boy, nothing changed. Maybe I laugh a little more now because I found the keys to ecstasy. - You put premium on ignorance It's rather contrarian and counter-intuitive. - Well, it is not. It is just that people See, in the western culture for example, because we are here, The basic fable or the story is about how a man and woman fell See, knowledge does not mean Knowledge is an accumulation. The moment by accumulating If you think you know If you gather a few of these leaves What to do? Right now, this is the human condition. They know tidbits of life, and with those tidbits, So always people are going back the Gita says this, the Bible says this, You're going back to authority Why don't you admit you don't know? And this admitting is not to me but within yourself. If you know that you do not know, then your intelligence will be on it's always on and probing, exploring, If I think I know, See, right now, it's light, and you can casually walk without If you come here late night If I ask you to walk here Because you don't know The moment you don't know, you see your alertness is So even now you don't know; while we go to universities, we go to scholars, to make our own conclusions or to go there to confirm This is not exploration; this is just knowledge collection; this is the same old tribe of hunting and Very rudimentary or primitive part we are still there when it comes to mind, physical atmosphere maybe They were going hunting and gathering; people are going shopping; - Do you think the educational system - Well, the educational system You put everything into the same thing and it'll come out A human being is alive, And not only that, on this planet, We are like the flower of evolution. You can't put flowers through and get out some kind of shape Flower has to blossom it needs attention and cultivation. I think very very few schools to cultivate children slowly Because it's an extruder system and some kind of product comes out. They know physics, chemistry, This has all been done because we have made Making a living has become big and because we want to live If your neighbor has a car which is you want to get that. If your neighbor has a bigger diamond If a neighbor has a bigger house All depends in which how much you want, isn't it? - It keeps growing like this, so we think this is development; this is the advancement No, this is just raising the bar so that even if you're you are still fighting for survival. This is the silliest way to live because the idea of affluence in life, either for an individual is that we don't have That's the idea. Our choices of nourishment and in short, we can live and if something significant Like people here were asking me, &quot;Sadhguru, is it true that he will come here in Missouri I said, &quot;I don't know where but if he comes in America and he says like he said 2,000 years ago, Even in Jerusalem only Out of those 12, one of them freaked. But in America, Maybe many of you will have desire, but you have student loan, car loan, 45 years your life is already mortgaged. Where are you going to go? He also said, &quot;You can't serve money He said &quot;You're serving this process of acquiring wealth and serving me What he's saying is not about it is just that you understand in the profoundness of your experience, not in things that you accumulate, because whatever you accumulate, it is only relevant to See, if you were here 10,000 years ago, &quot;Ah, you're a big guy.&quot; Today if you carry a stick and So today, what you have is maybe a suit, This is a consequence of time, So what we have is only relevant that we are there and what we gather, either in terms of material wealth We'll never enhance the life that we are; it will only enhances in We are misunderstanding that social situation is a thrill - There's an observation that they tend to spend a lot less time they tend to spend a lot more time - They know life is brief. - So, short-termism is that good then? - You're very serious. So, people are trying to live It's fantastic if you lived like that It doesn't matter That's not how it is. You push yourself into an awareness and various other things; you don't know what's coming tomorrow; Ignorance is not bliss, See, if you jump off a cliff, Have you ever done a free diving? - No. - Liberating. whether you're going up or down simply Only thing is if you look down, the damn planet is that's the only problem. So it is very blissful So ignorance is always like that. For a brief amount of time, You don't know anything. It's great. But when life hits you, it hits you. - I wanna go back to what You mentioned Gita, the Bible, and Quran. - I've not read either of them. what you've referred to earlier in the context of the difference Tell us. - Well, I'll go back to the same example. Right now if I ask you do you need confidence? But if it's pitch dark, if I ask you So your confidence is a bridge to cross the chasm of darkness It can work sometimes. You can shout your slogan, and go; maybe you will cross Well, if it works 50% of the time, you most people think if they successful 50% of the time That's why they decide everything heads, I do these, tails, I'll do that. See, if you're successful there are only two professions for you; either you must become These are the only two professions where you can be right 50% of the time In any other job, if you're 50% of So confidence is a bridge Clarity means you see things as they are; You know how to navigate nor you can see what is there. So instead of enhancing clarity, with belief systems and philosophies A man who thinks he is very confident No, they can't approach anything gently. People don't understand this, whether it's a football game or anything that's happening, Well, right now they may but there is an urge for violence. You're seeing the game itself No, there is another way to approach it because there is substantial medical that your body and your brain only when there is a pleasantness your body and your brain for the success of any physical activity, How well you can harness this body It's the basis of success. So if you think there is you will move from making plans This is the difference between A lot of people are successful by chance. The coin fell the right way, but they live in the fear of They're successful, they are fearful. If they are not successful, - Growing number of people seem to think that Does that mean the need for more - I don't think the world is getting darker. Maybe they looked up in the night. - With some of the things that are in some parts of the world. - So just look back and see, 100 years ago what was 200 years ago what was What is happening today, tell me then how is it dark? - I was referring to other parts - Other parts of the world also, what was happening 100 years ago tell me which one is better. - Especially, I'm saying women. For the women of the world, it's never been as good as it is today because the world was largely dependent It is now because of technology, everything that man's muscle can do, Now, men and women can Otherwise, the talk was absurd. Nobody would even entertain the talk because man's muscle was vital So people who are complaining even when they were in the caves, they were complaining they're not lit, there's no LED, They'll continue to complain that the failure is them As a world, as a humanity, we made things really good outside Unfortunately, still there are in terms of wars and famines, but that percentage is than what it was a few hundred years ago. - I agree. if 100 years ago or 200 years ago, let us say here or in Indonesia you will be sitting here, But today already in the morning blood spilling somewhere, now, you think it's happening So do not misunderstand Creation is going well. Communication has increased that somewhere one man dies, and your bedroom, your dining room, also these days there is also there is a television, and you think No, even if one man dies, and put it on the television you will feel suddenly the world That's not true. Yes there are still there's no question about that, but it's way better than it ever was. - Talk about technology. I mean, rage has not gotten worse. - Hm? - Rage I think they would we would have seen 100 - 200 years ago. But the reach into technology because of the way innovation in a much more exponential. So it may just take as it would have 100 or 200 years ago - Empowered. - We've still not come make every human being conscious But we have come with a poor substitute that you may be full of rage because you know We make sure you don't get away not everywhere, but largely So, is law enforcement a solution? No, it is not. till we evolve, till we think human beings and evolving them to Law Enforcement is a stop gap because if that is not there Right now at least, Maybe your heart is burning, This is civilization. You understand. You're right now raging within you but you will sit here peacefully, at least pretending to be peaceful, So this is the training for civilization. Civilization is not consciousness, but creating a platform We are still in that place There was a time when Eastern societies created the platform But unfortunately, In many ways, they were with very aggressive belief systems. It was brought down and today the world being so digital is because you can build to raise themselves up. Raising human consciousness is but the platforms are needed I'm not a real estate person and for me, my real estate is But now suddenly, we are building we're building a whole spiritual city. This is a very large piece of land and we're building a whole city here. In India, we are working towards having We are coming up with one more in Delhi, - Hopefully in Indonesia. &quot;You must come to Indonesia and build.&quot; You have 11,000 Islands uninhabited - Uninhabited. 11,000 islands, I want an island with a volcano. - I want to ask you about social media I'm sort of in the camp has done more harm to humanity at the rate that many of are spending nine to ten hours a day I wish they could spend listening to you, I think that could be better for them. - No, they're listening to me - Partly, not the whole 10 hours, - It doesn't matter what and there's a group pops up these days. - I know. But generally, of social media on humanity? - So it's one of the greatest things In the sense, many great beings have come, when they spoke hardly 10 people Today, you can sit here When was this ever possible? We are the first generation and we are complaining about it Well, this is not just about social media. Let's take the advancement of What has science done to us? It is one of the most wonderful But what is science done to us, If at all, if anything destroys, it's our scientific and that destroy this world, isn't it? So is science bad? Is technology bad? This is why I'm saying we need to focus equally on We have an extruder system everybody falls out and then you expect empowerment Empowerment is a terrible thing Rght now, that's what is happening. The cutting edge signs and technology So at this rate now, where they can just kill even the cameras won't be damaged. So the best thing to do: just the human beings die, computers are in place, and invade nation So why are we going into this? Because we have empowerment unevolved hands, okay? If you give a gun to a monkey, That's what we are right now. So all empowerment because it's in the wrong hands. So instead of improving the quality who holds this instruments we are thinking Social media is a fantastic thing. Science and technology are one that have happened to humanity. But human beings are not to handle such powerful tools and It's time to evolve. If they could evolve joyfully But I think a lot of human beings into your space, This is an unfortunate thing, kind of dismissed themselves So this is why we say somehow through discipline through yoga or through boga, As long as you're growing, What can I do? I would like to see it's joyful, but if the way you will grow How can I stop you to grow? - Is there a way to enrich so that you can avoid from being in the hands of the monkeys? - A lot of these were monkeys We have all kinds of monkeys because of a little bit of attention, Other ingredients already We just have the little engineer so that What blocks human evolution? One thing easily conclusions. These conclusions we call it myself, my natural self; it's called. Or it's called family, it's called civilization, it's called philosophy, you call it whatever you want This is the advantage. You will suddenly have but you shall not evolve. That's why they said, &quot;Man ate the fruit of knowledge I want to try to follow up on this. You know, in the old days until now, humanity has been searching and then recently Now, there's a sense that meaning let me worry about let me not worry about the next ZIP code. Is that good or bad? From salvation to inclusion because all those people whether they're breathing isn't it? - If you have to breathe and live or if you don't breathe you will die, Isn't breath and inclusion, otherwise you wouldn't be alive. What you eat to your digest, The world has held you as a part of itself, otherwise you won't exist here So inclusion is they want somebody &quot;I love you, I love you.&quot; Okay? That is the psychological malaise that your whole existence that somebody's emotions or so these days your spouse may just &quot;Oh Gita, I love you.&quot; We can have every one hour repeating. If you want it every five minutes We can program your phone nice silly things, There's nobody at the other hand, you just like to hear it, right? So I'm saying this sense of or a small group of people, is depravity that is setting in because that we don't know how to handle. It's like if you give he's going to kill somebody or himself. Not because he's evil, because he just So that is the case of so they are looking for inclusion Salvation means you are not you're looking for dissolution the nature of your life on the foundations of mortality. You've come with a limited amount and if you are conscious of it that as you sit here If you're conscious of it, seeking realization or salvation or Mukti or Moksha as we call it would be a natural process because somewhere in your mind You think you're going to be here. These five people who are sitting here Without them you can't exist. Somebody has to tell you, Otherwise you will feel lost because you're not looking at The context of life is this: from the day So should I sit here who's talking about If you know you have you definitely organize your life and much more intelligently than Doing all kinds of rubbish, as I was saying earlier. Well, if Jesus comes your banker says like this So when I say Jesus, I am not I am saying something that Even if that comes, you can't means you're ruined. You're going this way thinking But if you saw something you must be able to change If you cannot do that You don't have to wait for the result. - Last question on technology before I proceed to the other topics. Artificial Intelligence, - Why would I be? Three pandemic time, all this So I was in SPIFF (Saint-Petersburg in Saint-Petersburg. And they all questioning me I said, &quot;Why are you asking me I am a natural intelligent, Why? They are all academics. I'm sorry, I'm not saying this with any ... They were all academics. They're all saying, &quot;If this comes up, I said, &quot;Isn't it a good thing?&quot; Isn't it a good thing, Because that's the best thing is there are no teachers. No teachers needed means what? That means human beings to know and learn by their own means. Isn't that the most - Ignorance over knowledge; So I was just telling them this: I remember in 70s, the Mumbai Port I don't know if it's still called that. So at that time, the ships were by men carrying sacks. Though they were very strong they were called &quot;coolies&quot;, they had their own number plates, without that you could not And there's lots of politics and and all this stuff. So when they wanted In the port, that is the first gantry. Big strike; all the coolies went on strike, &quot;What are we supposed to do Those days, a ship of something like they would take 26 to 28 days to unload. And they were happy doing it that way When the gantry was fixed, today, the gantries that we have it can unload a ship of quarter million tons So they at that time, that you can't put up this gantry, so essentially what they were saying is this machine will make Isn't it a good thing that happened, Hasn't that happened So if you had a water carrier bringing water from the river and suddenly you've got he will resist because So now professors and academics Because a phone can teach whatever you want. And it has many gigabytes than a human being So they are wondering, &quot;How will But I think world where to run the world, needs, and infrastructure. No human being should be involved. Everything should be done That is when there is good room that we don't have daily concerns. When this happens, because ignorance and arrogance ignorance breeds arrogance. They will go into drinking, drugging, but there is a whole lot of &quot;What is this life about?&quot; Some will go towards suicide, So culturing the society When I say culturing the society I am not talking about future, How much physical activity Today how much you do, has come down to Because of machines and technology. So how much nonsensical thinking to understand one thing and If it's done by the machine, So I'm all for any kind of intelligence I know some religions I don't know about that. I know human beings can be loving Dogs are very loving. And then God is loving or not, I don't want to say anything. Somebody says, &quot;God is compassion&quot; Well, your job in Stanford, you got it I'm just asking. - I don't have the authority to answer. - I'm saying, would you like to get it - The former. So, compassion is meaningful If you're down for some reason, if I reach out it's very valuable; suddenly my hand when you've fallen, isn't it? But when you're standing on you want acceptance, So, people say &quot;God is compassion&quot; because they are in such People say &quot;God is love&quot;, because they don't have All these things which are human qualities If you say &quot;Peace&quot;, if you say &quot;Bliss&quot;, No, these are all human capabilities. Miserable people on the planet And now to import, So, if it's just such I'll appreciate their entrepreneurship. But it's not good for humanity. So I'm saying if all things are done by machines, anything and everything, Naturally, it would seek salvation. Well, a few suicides It should not. This is why we need to orient the society. There is a way for a human being to aspire for something bigger than physiological if you don't curate the society like this, then they will go to drink, drug, these things will come because Right now, that's what's happening in affluent societies: the youth are doing these things because nobody has cultured them The only thing that's been done The youth don't want to go to heaven; if you say you want to go to heaven, they will ask you, They are not interested in the old they want life here, It may look like short-termism, because I feel that that we have done in the world is to tell people that This is a crime against creation. There is no better place than this, You may be in a desert, but still, there is no better place than this for you. You must make this into It's very important. I have not seen the whole of Indonesia, in Bali, what we have seen is cultured; India largely was like that, but today we are trying to be We are trying hard. So to culture a society, to culture society, it is not about or some ideology or belief system. It is about culturing a human being, there are possibilities beyond physical - I want to move on to what You've been riding the motorbike and you've gotten a lot of people - They got excited because - But tell the world what your mission is, at least the Indonesians and what you've been up to. - Well, one of your stars was very much What was her name? Raline Shah has been participating She has been a big support and to ride with me for a short distance. But for a beautiful young woman - Did you comply with the speed limits? - Speed limits in Dubai are good; so it's a hundred miles. It's okay. But because in some places and the security were excited, so they were driving at So I was happy. So, about Save Soil: I've been talking about soil I have spoken to regular common people, have spoken to I have spoken to bureaucrats Agriculture Ministries, various ministers in many countries, Everybody says, &quot;This is fantastic&quot; &quot;This has to be done&quot;. And that night they will use it as a pillow So I've been watching this; we have not just been watching; we've been converting farmers from to very soil-friendly and economically far more Most farmers who have shifted over 132,000 farmers--have shifted in southern India alone. Their incomes have gone up anywhere - In what sort of duration and how long? - In a matter of 7 to 8 years. So now we have 130,000 farmers are pretty large, So I saw that we can do but the important thing is because microbial life is not segmented, Unless you make it happen we are heading towards soil extinction. That's what we're going towards not only on this planet, It is the largest living system You take a handful of soil, there's anywhere between 50 to 75,000 species in a handful. So that's how rich it is, but we have been systematically When I say starving them to death, here you see all this leaf has fallen, and in a month's time After snowfall, by spring, if you look here It would all become soil. So here the organic content could be but the minimum organic content according to UN agencies, three to six percent is good. But not a single nation, not even a single nation, The highest that you find is southern Europe is 1.1%, average across and United States is 1.25%, Below one percent is In the last 25 years, we have lost - Wow! And that could increase significantly because this is something I think that is if the temperatures the wind speeds on the planet generally 20 to 30 kilometers per hour. If it goes by 2 degrees, it will go up 35 to 40 kilometers per hour. So if normal wind is blowing at let's say ... There are many places including Southern India, will blow out anywhere between 70 sometimes up to 100 kilometers Almost in large parts If it picks up 225, then the amount of soil it'll shift In United States, there was something The entire soil, or a large part of soil, millions of tons of soil from the Prairies They thought it landed in New York City because the building stopped and heaps like dooms came up But you could never calculate Topsoil, which takes 600 to 800 years but that is getting blown away it'll get completely blown away, especially in islands like yours The whole island could be in the ocean - Or less. - I'm saying if you don't I hear that in Indonesia from 87%, it's come to some If you don't put back forest cover, because already that is One cyclone can just empty Right now southern Europe is parts of Romania are understand because the Kalahari and is flying into southern Europe. It's not only the people coming, You can't stop it. You can stop the people by but the sand will come. So in countries like Romania, Slovakia, even right up to Azerbaijan these sands are coming. But if the wind picks up by then overnight your town It's possible. So there are many many things to it. I'm not here to give a doomsday picture. - I feel like I just sit in a science class. - I'm sorry. - So, I'm not here to paint The reason why I am into this is we can very easily turn this around For that, we need government policy, otherwise large-scale action And for sustained action Fortunately I, the reason why from London to Southern India: I did 691 events along the way, - How long of a drive on a daily basis? - 18 - 20 hours, some days 24 hours - Oh my gosh. And how many - Only me. Single motorcycles support Our radio team was there. That's why they've captured many things and there were support teams, But otherwise only one motorcycling. The idea was a lone motorcycle because I've been talking about it people have been sleeping on it. I saw that unless I do something So once they saw, initially they thought and I will ride somewhere in a city and then maybe I will fly When they saw every mile whatever the weather; it's dust storms in Arabia, I'm still riding; then they saw oh I'm serious Then all these - Billions, I heard. - Billions have been reached. and they all multiplied the message. So the sleeping volunteer force and they made sure it reaches the world because of that, now 81 nations are in from China to Europe. America is just beginning, and Indonesia also It is just that we want to make sure it is not a short-term enthusiasm We want to make sure soil is See, last year in the month of January, when the whole world came together to solve climate change and these kind of issues or There was really no mention of soil. But this one is happening. We are official observers to this event. COP27 is happening now in Egypt, so our teams are there and and soil has become an important part. So the conversation and with the Save Soil Movement. But we need to keep it up today's leadership - Today's election? - I'm saying that on the right day. So they may not be there tomorrow and in the public conversation And like administrators can really act. It is not fair to expect democratically elected leader, to do something that people People have to show that concern. So we're still still keeping the campaign up. It will rise to a certain pitch now; on 5th of December is the 'World Soil Day'. So around that we will again to make everybody feel comfortable. I especially want the lawmakers that this is an important issue, People's endorsement is needed. So that's what we are trying to get: 81 nations are moving, right now in the consultative process. China has started the soil survey India has already invested towards the soil for the last year, and this year they will ... February Many countries have started moving Commonwealth Nations: 54 nations Every nation may not be able because of their economic but it doesn't matter, we must start moving towards a solution. In 8 to 12 years, entire world, you can bring it to if there is a incentive-based policy. The policy is three-pronged; to incentivize farmers to go for it. Second is we must may to be available to the farmer. Right now it is very difficult Third is there must be When I say market recognition, today if you go to any shop or they will show an apple in your face Then you must ask them, They don't have one. So organic is just a marketing jargon. - What is in it, nobody can measure. See, to take this apple how much insecticide or fertilizer is a very complex process, It's a research project, okay? - So now, we are looking at in the soil, which is easily right here on the land you can measure. So now if an apple comes, that this apple comes from 3% this apple comes from 6% organic soil, this apple comes from 10% organic soil. We have enough science already If it's 3%; what is the amount What is the kind of health benefit What is the preventive health? What is the reduction of load on What is the benefit to the state? All this data we have. If it's 6% what it is, This data is not difficult. Only thing is what is 3% and 6% apple may cost maybe but instead of eating six apples and you have the same nourishment because in 1920s studies In 1920s, what nourishment in Florida or in California, today if you have to get you have to eat eight oranges. When was the last time you ate - You know, whenever we go to We take it for granted It 's not necessarily good. It's just become a marketing word. - I wouldn't say it's a gimmick, I would say it's not defined. Would you say it's misrepresentative? - See probably, this is one stage of development Somebody saying something organic less whatever. It's one state of development, We need to come to another stage That's what is important. It's just organic is not important, If the fruit or vegetable has to be rich one thing that will happen out of this is ... See, let us say entire planet 6% to 8% organic content if we achieve that all human beings at least 30% less food than So it is not only towards solving the important thing is in your system. Today, you've come in a car, but when I ride the motorcycle because for the same liter You can ride with 90 octane The same goes for this: if you eat food that is the volume of food that you need What this means is See, digestive process is a very It's very taxing. The quicker and easier and less you can digest and more energy One reason why most human beings is simply because of If they ate food less food would take care This would unfold human capabilities in ways that you cannot imagine. This is why in the yogic culture Now, everybody is talking about ... every two hours or three hours The same people are now Well, your opinions are does it mean to say in the last 10 years? We've been saying the same thing But unfortunately, everything - Somebody try to be different every time. - No, all these things have If I say an apple a day will prevent you then you start eating apples. Otherwise, I'll say a strawberry a day an egg a day will do that; it depends who you are, - Are you more optimistic now 5 years ago, 30 years ago, about in 8 to 12 years 3%, hopefully a lot - Will the world move It's a pace that we are concerned about. So if there are no extraneous I think we can achieve it. But the moment these situations come, But it could also be seen and war situations and political situations, create a certain level of insecurity. This may also happen faster in See, right now people who are of the world's wheat So what it means is in large parts food is not growing. Food must always grow One exotic fruit you can bring it from But general diet must be growing at least within a minimum radius. Right now your food is coming from This is not the way to because this will lead to this will lead to all kinds it may end up with a terrible famine Food must grow where people are; Now, am I trying to destroy No. But basic food that we need If we don't take care of that, It can happen anytime, but in my estimates because by 2032 it is expected That means daily drinking water If, let us say, 5% or 10% wherever you live, Do you think you're safe on the street? Do you think your home is safe? Will it be a place to live? Do you think your women I'm saying this will dismantle Once there are food shortages this thousand years of civilization So we must understand that sufficient food and water, clean air, pure water, and always must be there for every population if you want to build human civilization. If you want to build human consciousness, This message I think not only with the policy makers or - We're always trying I don't really look at life like that. I think one person who needs But somehow everybody thinks - No, it's so that they talk if it doesn't get to the ears - Are they deaf or something else, - Sometimes parents listen - No unfortunately, that is where No, that's not the way. Tell me who should be telling whom. Adults should be telling the children or How foolish and an ignorant life if your 5 or 8-year-old child is &quot;You're destroying the planet, How bad should you be? I would be ashamed I'm the one telling that. - And I don't know, &quot;Sadhguru, let's go to the schools. I said, &quot;Leave the children alone Let them grow up without Let them play, let them grow, Don't burden them with Problems that you created, if you have any dignity before let's fix the damn thing. They shouldn't even know that and we fixed it. - Absolutely. We got to do to help amplify this message. - Most needed. - I wanna move on to a different topic. The Greeks had a term called stoicism. You have a term called yoga. Explain the difference between See, being stoic is keeping from what's happening around you If you're being killed right now, I will keep a little distance If that's happening to me If you can be stoic about and whatever else that happens; fantastic. I am stoic about other people suffering. This is no good, you have just Yoga is not about that. The word yoga means union. say right now, That means: that is your body that is your mind, this is my mind. No way these two things are But suppose, if I die tomorrow And you will die after 100 years, Your body and my body becoming the same soil, isn't it? So even now it's essentially but in our minds So I'm saying you're already you're breathing, You're eating food from this earth, you are one with everything. But it's not there in your experience. The method of bringing that the method of consciously obliterating the illusory boundary This is not a philosophy, this is not an attitude this is coming to experience When I say reality as it is, is it true that your existence It's only your ideas, your thoughts, You can't exist here for a moment This is what we are talking without those microorganisms, which is you cannot exist without them. Maybe you can't see them, What you exhale right now what the trees exhale It's already one. One half of your lungs are but you don't experience it. But if you did experience it, after that do I have to tell you &quot;Don't harm this prayer preserving Do you need any teachings? If you experience it you will do the best you can do, isn't it? So this is yoga; it is not an attitude; it is not a philosophy; it is not an ideology; it is just obliterating the boundaries and knowing life the way it is. We are not stoic here, I'm into everybody's lives but still untouched. Absolutely involved but still untouched. - It's been an amazing conversation. I drove all the way here Why in Tennessee? At that time most of in northern part of the United States; This is where our activity was. When we thought of setting up a center, I looked around, I drove around - Motorcycle? For almost 30 years, it's only now that I'm back on. So when I saw the country also in this region I experienced And then I started looking up about This geography is very interesting If you had come here two weeks ago, this land was like painted fall colors were so absolutely spectacular. So terrain wise, And another reason is because we are not which pops up in a city, Here, if you want to pursue that's when this is relevant to you. If you want to do there are many places. We can also offer there you do something simple, But if you were pursuing something, then you need an atmosphere, it can't be in the middle of So the distance from the cities We're just an hour and a half a little over two hours from Atlanta, 45 to 50 minutes from Chattanooga. So it's ideally located that way, And from where we are, is 60% of the US population, because even today when people just drive overnight and drive through again except for California, Seattle Except that, everything else is From New York to all these places. So that's an important part. Plus there is a certain history which also I wanted to fix in some way. So we are going to consecrate so that everything changes about it. - Is there a special energy? - Not like that. This is in a way, of what is historically called as I thought there was too much pain, - Let me ask you - It's sounding like a threat to me. - No. This is a student asking a teacher. What does happiness mean to you? And I guess there's a subset Does happiness mean differently Is there a universal definition If you become pleasant in your body, If this becomes very pleasant If your mind becomes pleasant, If it becomes very pleasant, we can say If your emotions become pleasant If it becomes very pleasant, If your very life energies If it becomes very pleasant, If our surroundings become pleasant, Only to make surroundings pleasant, we need to seek the assistance other forces, all this to create But to make this body, this mind, is 100% your business, isn't it? So instead of looking for let me put it this way: Do you want your experience of life - Pleasant. As much as possible or 50% will do? - Adequately pleasant. It doesn't - As much as possible? - That means you are thinking of but now you're settling for happiness because you've given up on ecstasy. Many people have given up on happiness Many people have given up peace They are thinking, &quot;If I live without Many people have given up that, If the trouble is minimal, it's good enough. I'm saying these are all things I'm asking you as a child, as a youth, Whatever is the most in terms of your experience, not in terms of family, career, Within you, what was the most That moment, whatever it was, So at least, you must set it as a baseline. How joyful you were in a given moment what was the highest moment, because you're capable of that. So in your life, if you do not do But if you do not do This is the disaster, even what they can do, What is the most joyful, what is the most ecstatic moment That should at least be the baseline, isn't it? Because you're capable of that. I'm not asking you to do something What you're capable of you have not even begun to appreciate See, the grasshopper the moment He's singing away, Your stomach is full, but no. This is a unique human problem Maybe there is in Indonesia also If you'll meet somebody the only question they'll ask is Nobody will ask you &quot;How do you do?&quot; Because if you've eaten, Other problems are all self-made, Suppose I didn't get food to eat, I'll have to sort it out. But my stomach is full and I'm not happy. You should look at the world, So do not set how much percentage Whatever is the highest level of that should become the baseline, and we will see if there are Otherwise, if you think this is you want to go there. Everybody who believes that than here, why are they waiting? If they are so sure, and everything there is what are you waiting for? At least you must get there before I come because I may take No, I'm saying we are trying to fill with all kinds of beliefs so that because you have not been Once in a way when your friend dies, &quot;Oh my God, it could be me.&quot; to how to cross this bridge. It doesn't matter, anyway, I'm going to If that place is better than this, You should go. No, that's not how it works, isn't it? So I am not trying to denigrate anything. All I'm saying is human intelligence the nature of creation and not conclude from somebody else. So always we are looking for of a preacher, of a guru, or or somebody who we think is God. You're looking for an authority because If you make authority the truth, Truth is the only authority. This is yoga; no conclusions, You can only genuinely seek you genuinely do not know. Then if you realize &quot;I do not know&quot; seeking, longing, and the possibility It's right here. But we are closing the doors So to change this is the goal and we are empowered like never before, This is the first time we can sit here When we have such an opportunity? If we do not create the world at least start moving in that direction. We chose we don't have for the world around us, So this is the best time that way. Otherwise, how could you talk Today, our average video reach annually is around 2.5 billion. Never before anything spiritual I'm saying 8, 10, 12 year old children Not forced by anybody. It's never happen. nobody could make me listen It was simply impossible. But today they are seeking and listening. So you must understand the more the more seeking will happen. A confusion is way better than Because confusion at least brings Conclusions bring arrogance - Wow. I don't know what else to ask. Thank you very much, Sadhguru. That was a fascinating discussion the founder of Isha Foundation. Thank you very much.