(engine roaring) - The space folks and don't get mad at me for saying this, but failure is an option. - This team is building a plane that will go over - We are pushing the envelope. - With the ultimate goal of making passenger airplanes six times - Success is a possible outcome. Is it the most likely outcome? No. You just keep moving, keep until we will this into existence. - We are in Atlanta, Georgia right now on location at Hermeus, which is a hypersonic aircraft company. They're building a aircraft which can travel five times the speed of sound and I'm just like super I should add, I'm super excited because I actually studied aerospace engineering in college. Yes, your typical first step That's my voice. - Yeah. - Anyways, I really (dreamy electronic music) - So what you see behind This is the first aircraft that we're building here at Hermeus and it'll be the first aircraft to break a speed record in almost 50 years. - Hermeus's first demonstrator aircraft, the &quot;Quarter Horse,&quot; is a small single engine designed to do two major things; touch mach five ever so and to test their chimera engine. - Ladies and gentlemen, (audience cheering) We're not just building in this development program, So that allows us to take that type of risk in flight test that The other kind of key thing that enables that is the fact that There are no people on board. - Hypersonic flight isn't new. - The X-15, forerunner and tomorrow's airplanes. - See how these planes are from another airplane? They're powered by rockets. That's how we've been achieving hypersonic for the last 50 years. But Hermeus is trying to build an aircraft that can hit hypersonic speeds, and land to be reused all - The way you would design an and an engine to do that is of a spectrum from the You have all these different pulling you in different directions. So you have to make all get something that can both take off, break the sound barrier, and accelerate at high speed - An example of this is like the X-15 that has a at increased speeds, but at lower speeds, those same features are undesirable because they reduce lift. - The actual &quot;Quarter Horse&quot; vehicle, the challenges with it are we're trying to build to prove out that we can hit mach five. - This is Danielle. She's the head engineer - We have to be kind of If we're really good at going fast, we'll have a really hard time going through that transonic region. We won't be able to get through it and we'll be stuck at Mach 1.2. - Supersonic flight is anything above the speed of sound, about 760 miles per hour at sea level. Hypersonic flight is five times the speed of sound, which is about 3,800 miles Today, your standard from New York to LA at You guys have a landing gear because you're taken off from - Yeah. - You're not just like - Oh, it would make it so much easier if we could just drop it. - If you didn't have to deal with it. - Yeah, if we didn't it would be so much easier. - Yeah. Heat is one of the about hypersonic. Can you tell me about that? - We're targeting a Our approach is to have so that we have what's - To withstand the high the space shuttle was that could be damaged and replaced, but that kept the substructure safe. In space, there's no air, so a spacecraft is free to accelerate unencumbered by air friction. But inside earth's the more air friction causes the surface of the aircraft to heat up. If this were in the air and I were to touch it, it would be approximately... - Eight or 900 degrees. - And at the front... - The very front will be 2,000. - 2,000 degrees. That's really hot. - The metal grows at those temperatures. Just heating everything up to the right temperatures on the vehicle that you - Whoa. - &quot;Quarter Horse&quot; will be a and it'll also kind of be like a terrible hypersonic aircraft, but its job is to bridge that gap so we can get the data we need to learn so that we can actually build a really good hypersonic aircraft in the - Of all the challenges of building an engine capable of that range of speeds - On a typical airplane, you'll see the engine kind of hang off the bottom of the wing. Our fuselage, our whole aircraft is - Okay, so this right here is- - This is where the engine would live. The back end of it is right of our thermal protection 'cause we fired an engine in here. - A normal jet engine produces adding fuel, igniting that mixture, and accelerating it through a nozzle. At higher speeds, a different something called a ramjet. - They're an incredibly simple device. From a thermodynamic perspective, they do exactly the same thing as a traditional jet engine does, which is compress air, burn it, and exhaust it through a nozzle. Instead of having a mechanical compressor, like you have on a jet engine, that actually uses a natural compression mechanism called a shockwave. - As a plane moves through the air faster than the speed of sound, airwaves in front of it pile up, creating what's called a shockwave. As shockwaves naturally compress the supersonic airflow inside a ramjet, there's no need for a - So really all you have is an inlet that compresses the air naturally, combustor where you're putting fuel into the flow and burning it. - Our breathing propulsion is actually the entire length of the vehicle. So from the tip of the aircraft where we have the inlet section, it goes all the way to the back where we have the the nozzle. So we went from idea and to building this thing in about four months. - Four months? - From zero, to drawings, to putting the whole thing together. - Since Hermeus' aircraft will be taking off and landing from the ground, their engine needs to work as a standard jet engine to operating as a ramjet - The trick with ramjets is that they don't work until or above and they don't get real efficient until you get to about mach three. So jet engines, you know, tend to work up to about mach two-ish. So there's this kind of gap between the two that you have to bridge in one way or another. - Hermeus argues that each of the component technological need have been in existence for decades. The challenge is bringing - We're taking an approach that is like fundamentally focused on engineering and not science. We're not inventing any new materials, we're not inventing any - Engineers are a bunch of nerds that don't like talking to other people. - Help me. What are we looking at? What's going on? - We're looking at two J-85 engines. We name our engines. This is Amelia. - Amelia. - Yeah. - Okay. - So we're taking this, the part that spins to do the lower speed portions of flight. All of this comes off and - Oh! Okay, okay. - It takes years and years and we showed in the seed round that we can take a commercial jet engine, pull off its afterburner, and run it way high up, way higher speeds than it's designed for. - An afterburner, as the name suggests, sits at the end of a jet. It adds more fuel to the exhaust coming through the jet and ignites it, producing even more thrust and allowing the aircraft to travel at even greater speeds. - How we transition at low speed to a ramjet that's something that's So we'll do it in a wind and then we'll have to do it That's a big risk. - All right, all right, all right. Whoa! This is really big. - Yeah. So this our turbo based - The chimera engine is and it's designed to operate from not moving on the grounds up to, you know, mach four to five up at - Gas turbine engine Pumping the air into the lower speed, mach zero to We'll bypass that air around. There's multiple fuel circuits. There's a flame holder in but then a combustion - So air comes in here. - That's right. - And runs through here - About mach three. - About mach three. - And then the air passes around this and goes straight into the - That's right. And so we dual use the so it's what we call our ram burner. - I'm gonna say got it but that was all very, You're clearly very smart, Glenn. Thank you for breaking that down for us. - You're welcome. - Hermeus has successfully over 100 times, including for elected We were supposed to see Instead, we had a chance to about an engine test failure while we were onsite. Just who you wanted to see, right? A film crew. - So what happens if &quot;Quarter (man laughing) - Well it's not an if, We're going to push the bounds of what the aircraft can do in flight. We fully expect to lose an aircraft at some point in the development program. You know, there are any of failures that we could have in flight that could cause, you know, catastrophic loss of the vehicle. It's a single engine vehicle exceed the limits of material, hundreds of pounds of difference between the brains of the aircraft. So, yeah. There's no shortage of - Whatever you wanna share, it's pretty interesting to us and cool that you're being open about, But yeah, just tell me, What's going on? Are you cool, comfortable, - Straight forward? - A lot of things can happen energetic systems and things like that. We pushing the limits of what it could do. Chucked a little bit of hardware out the back end and burned so no big deal. We just had to call the fire department to come put out the brush - A jet needs to as it's coming through. This requires a continuous flame. The flame holder, that piece of equipment that got chucked out the back of the chimera, is a part within the engine that prevents that flame from going out. As Hermeus was testing their engine right before we arrived on site, it broke. - You know, whenever you it can seem like really, really bad, but given the way that we did This was specifically a that it wasn't sufficient and so we wanted to see and push the life on it. We have the replacement hardware in work. We're gonna replace it relatively quickly. - There's a certain set of on the grounds, but it's exactly what we're gonna be doing when - It's still kind of hot. - Oh, it's definitely warm from tests. - So I can't see the flame - Flame holder, yeah. (men laughing) - A day and a half after the and its original jigs at the factory. The damage that seemed repaired and the broken halves rejoined. - Just the willingness to try We haven't had that in at least since the pre space shuttle days. Back then, we were willing to fail a lot. I mean, we broke an X-15 in half and then we put it back We'd never do that today. - And even from failures, - I love what you were saying in the interview about the X-15 and like how like people really push the bounds and break stuff. What you guys are trying and things are gonna break, That's a necessary part of - It only works though if and you've built enough hardware that you can get back into tests quickly 'cause if you haven't, if you haven't prepared for that failure, then it's gonna take you a And then you're also willing to take risks - One thing that Hermeus different is their reliance on a vertical integration process modeled after ones used by - Hypersonic aircraft are One small change can on the overall vehicle performance or what the power system needs to do. It's really hard to design kind of one part by itself and then You have to design the whole And vertical integration make trades across the not from the very beginning when you don't know a lot about it, but all along the way as you're building it, as as you're flying it. - Ladies and gentlemen, welcome with nonstop service - Were you a flight - Maybe, maybe. If Hermeus can pull 20 passenger aircraft, the &quot;Halcyon,&quot; Maybe you're wondering, what will hypersonic flight be like? There won't be any windows on the outside of the aircraft. Instead, passengers will see and some darkness of space feeds projected onto LED What about (engine roaring) that? The sonic boom that breaks the sound barrier. (engine roaring) After Air Force testing over Oklahoma City in the 1960s led to tens the FAA banned civil It's one of the factors that complicated Concorde's ability to stay in business. - The one thing that has is that the number of passengers traveling over water routes has grown substantially. The market is large enough just on those oversea routes of different competitors probably. - I think it's safe to don't find air travel to be luxurious. We put up with it because it gets us where we wanna which makes the promise of hypersonic flight While there are other startups on getting passenger travel Hermeus, with the money it's raised, its contract with the Air Force, and less risk averse approach, seems to be right now the private company to achieve - It was an airshow that I went to in middle school that kind I saw a C5 Galaxy fly, so it's one of the largest cargo aircraft that we have in the US Air Force, and it just kind of broke my brain. To see something like the just didn't make sense to me. It's like, okay, I gotta - Ready? Wanna hold my hand? - I firmly believe that that face-to-face communication is kind This is one the fastest We have a lot of solve as a species to and really make it kind of unlocking the potential - What Hermeus is Bigger companies like Boeing What was inspiring about at Hermeus was how clear eyed they are about their potential for failure, yet in spite of that, how determines they are to pull this off. - I'll put it this way. Failure is still the most that inches a little And there'll be days when where we learn something we didn't know, where we fail in a test I don't see a way where this Now it comes down to execution. - So we're here on set. What's up, man? At Hermeus... Now I feel like a presenter now. Sunglasses or no sunglasses? I'm not live. I'm here. I'm live. Coming to you live and direct!