A breathtaking scientific revolution is taking at stunning speed, giving us the tools to On the one hand solving the deadliest diseases than nuclear bombs, able to devastate humanity. What is going on? Biotechnology is increasingly everywhere. The cotton in your clothes, the vegetables Humans manipulate living things. We use bacteria to produce insulin, connect industrial enzymes to produce paper. Gene therapy creates cures to previously untreatable resistant to climate change. Our mastery over biology has been speeding Covid 19 case, the unknown coronavirus was Scientists generated a copy of its genetic for testing months after the pandemic began. Something unthinkable a decade ago. Where is all this sudden progress coming from? Well, it's complicated. But in a nutshell: really expensive things impressive things spread freely. The Human Genome Project starting in 1990 DNA in its entirety. 13 years and $3 billion By then the cost of decoding a human genome Today it is 100,000 times cheaper, costing How is that possible? Converting DNA into computer data and then taking expert humans around 3 years of manual Today it takes about two weeks and is almost Biotechnology has gone from something restricted by the world's top experts, to something affordable to casually work on. What has sped up the process even more is widely and freely. Cutting-edge discoveries now take just about a few years for anyone with a biology for high school students to experiment with Imagine that your local computer repair shop the parts lying around, and that teenagers Not a crappy homemade version, the real thing. This is what is going on right now in biotechnology We are adding knowledge at unprecedented rates, This speed means we can expect even more wonderful Lifesaving treatments, miracle crops and solutions But unfortunately progress cuts both ways. What can be used for good, can also be used For all the good biotech will do for us, in many millions of people, in the worst case Worse than any nuclear bomb. The world just witnessed how fast the novel We still do not know for sure if it came from from a lab working with corona viruses, In the end at least 7 million people died. And this was still a relatively mild virus But that might change in the future. Wherever the last pandemic came from, the - in a sense, many things going on in biotechnology Most of all how easy it is to work with dangerous Thousands of scientists can simply order the to experiment with them. Assembling these into an artificial virus including all the lab equipment. At the same time, other scientists are trying like in wild bats or monkeys. There are probably plenty of potentially deadly Virus hunters take samples back to the lab are likely to spread in humans and catalogue When a biologist discovers a new virus, they Journals are eager to share descriptions of Other labs go further and make viruses more They combine and mutate different viruses likely to spread between humans or make them And again, these results are shared freely. All while synthetic DNA and equipment to rebuild without any or very little tracking. As the tools of biotechnology get ever cheaper dangerous viruses keeps multiplying, it is only a matter blueprints for the equivalent nuclear bomb - and someone uses it. Maybe because they have bad intentions, maybe We are creating an environment in which it a weaponized virus in their backyard. This is scary. The world would be plunged into an unending or all at once - killing large parts damage to civilisation as a whole, and possibly It's not the first time we've faced a - think of nuclear technology. Something extremely powerful and dangerous Nuclear energy was born from weapon programs, for their knowledge to be abused. From the very beginning it was clear that technology needed to be handled with utmost So a lot of effort has gone into making sure or that countries don't try to hide weapons The result hasn't been perfect, but considering we've been very successful. Likewise, no researcher would think to share into bomb-making machines on the internet. There is no reason we could not handle the in a similar way! Experts have come up with three sort of bullet First we need to delay the next deadly pandemic Their genetic data should be treated as an to society if it is shared without care. In other words, not just anyone should be And if you do, you should be tracked, so it to access the really spicy stuff. The next step is detecting the danger by becoming and are spreading explosively between humans. This could be as easy as having labs in population that monitor what is going on in the micro world. If we suddenly see certain microorganisms and start counter measures. Which is the final step: Destroy. We basically need to build a machine that before it has a chance to take over. We can do this with new tools that are being that pull dangers out of the air we breathe or before it has a chance to jump from person And of course, we need to get better at getting If we do these three things, the chances are really a catastrophic pandemic in the future. Biotechnology, like any exciting and powerful It has the potential to be both in breathtaking We have the chance to a future where we get the biology of the plants and animals around us So let's use it to create a future where This video was supported by Open Philanthropy. If you want to help and want to have a high check out the biorisk career guide from 80,000 hours, a nonprofit organisation that helps people find careers that can tackle some of humanity's greatest problems We put a link and further reading in the description Aside from biorisk there are more guides to Let us tell you about one of the most embarrassing it's a pretty great story. A few years ago we posted an image of a fake Just to post something nice, without thinking But we messed with the wrong birbs. Immediately we got thousands of messages bad. We underestimate that you take everything you set high standards for our research and This hurt. A lot. We wanted to be better than that. So we deleted it and contacted experts and and developed a new visualization of the relationships A Map of Evolution you can use to figure out Expert approved. We were extremely proud of the result - and we turned it into a poster. And from that a new vision was born: We wanted to become the best infographic and scienceposter shop in the world. Today we've designed almost 100 posters - every single one made with love, care and lots of All because you guys challenged us. Thank you so much for that and for supporting Because of you we can continue to release hundreds of hours into new concepts to spark Thank you so, so much for being part of our