Good morning! Have you ever wondered what it's like to wake up in First and foremost I open the windows and breath in some fresh air. It helps me to wake up fully and feel ready for the day. Our guests always say that it feels like a mini vacation I think it's the energy, the wooden beams and nature, Making my bed correctly is a priority, because at the end of the day it would be a reminder that I had done something well, I used to struggle to get up very early due to late-night screen time. But, since I created a new routine I became an early riser It boosts my productivity, increases mental clarity I always dry the sink to avoid limescale build up. The dogs are still sleepy. My husband says that Time to make breakfast for the dogs. Usually they get veggies, fruits, meat, herbs and oils. I never imagined I'd ever be cooking for my dogs. I'm glad they like it. Quick potty break in the backyard. I need to drink some water. The first zip of the day is the best. Do you drink a lot? Before I walk the pups I want to call my husband. Being in a long-distance marriage it is important to talk to each other and to see how your spouse is doing before you start your day. I'm grateful for today's technology. It's much easier to keep in touch. Journaling in the morning helps me set a positive and focused mindset for the day ahead. I can reflect on things that are important to me in this moment, and it allows me to delve into my thoughts. It makes me feel calm and prepared for the day ahead. Books are also very important to me. I feel more creative, it stimulates my imagination and I learn new things. Before we left the city a couple of years ago, we Little did we know that one day we would call this gem our own. Starting the day with some Yoga helps me awaken But some days I just sit on my mat taking some deep breaths. This place is so peaceful and quiet at this time of day I recently learned in a study that getting some sunlight into that nurtures both It feels good and I want to incorporate it into my routine in the long run. Let's go for a walk. Time to read the dog news. Walking four dogs sometimes looks like a dance, to make sure the leashes don't get tangled up and Recall works best with him. The girls, on the other hand, would always go hunting. Up here, it's always windy. You probably can hear it. This year has been a good year for apples. The smell is incredible. Snacktime after a long walk. We usually walk between 6km and 20km each day. They're really into dried mango and I do too. When it comes to food they're really patient. I take a quick cold shower to feel refreshed and energized. It makes me feel more focused during the day. I've come to learn that having a morning routine sets the tone for each day and creates structure and focus in everyday life. I need to vacuum today. Having four dogs which are considered as &quot;heavy shedders&quot; means that I need to vacuum at least once a day, sometimes twice. It's very rewarding to remove all the dust and grime. As great as hardwood floors may seem (the one is Canadian Oak) they do need extra care from time to time. A half-timbered house also means that there's many spider webs. We also have many plants inside our house. It increases humidity during winter. Thanks to them, the air is no longer as quite as dry. We recently did a kitchen makeover. Our kitchen island is still drying. You're going to see it soon. We had a lot of rain in the past two weeks. I could listen to it all day long. It's very soothing and comforting. People sometimes feel sorry for me that I have It doesn't bother me at all. This used to be the stable for the animals. You still can see the original flooring. There are many stories that this place holds. Sunday church service used to take place here, for example. We also had people over telling us that asking if they could have a look inside in order to see what has changed. This is how we came to learn about the history of Today is laundry day. I want to have everything done Having a long-distance marriage means that I have to keep up track with laundry before he is about to leave next week. In the past I used to dread laundry days for some reason and I could never seem to stay on top of it. Since I committed myself to change the laundry game, we stopped living out of baskets. Now, it feels somehow therapeutic and I forgot to undo the buttons. Do you use a sleeve board? As a child I used to watch my mother using it every Once we come back from our walks they immediately fall asleep. My mother and grandmother always told me that It would make the sleeve look more neat. I'm from South Germany and there's this If you've ever visited the Swabia region of Germany, It's a cultural stereotype symbolizing thriftiness, cleanliness, Growing up like this showed me the benefits of Folding clothes in a specific way to store them I often lost track of what was behind the stacks in my closet. Items at the bottom were often very wrinkled. I started to search for a solution and stumbled She's world-renowned for the Japanese art of helping millions of people around the world to create a home full of joy. Folding clothes the Japanese way became an obsession of mine. It allows you to save space in your closet and My husband also appreciates that method as it is much more convenient for him to pack his suitcase. After I have finished laundry I'm going to make a cup of hot water with orange juice, Fresh orange juice. Hot water. Pour the juice over the water. Add 0.5 inches fresh ginger root, roughly chopped (skin removed) and 1/4 teaspoon cinnamon. Stir well and enjoy. As soon as I have finished my cup of tea I will take care of everything else that needs to be done today. It's hard to describe how dear this place became to me. I hope you enjoyed watching this video as much as I enjoyed making it.