Hey guys. Toby Mathis here. And today we're going to go over the top for real estate investors. And before we dive into the top nine Want to break this in real simple. There's three types of income Generally speaking So I'm renting it to somebody else. This may be Airbnb being from a trade or business, All these things are a little different. But for our purposes, I'm You're buying the real estate and you're renting it out, then Your federal tax rate is 0 to 37%, and it's generally considered Right. There's exclusions But rents are considered passive income. If you're Airbnb being average day then you are non passive. You are now trade or business income But for our folks that are out there and by the way, So going to apply. It's just a little bit different, But for those of us that are landlords, we're just looking at number one Number two, when we dispose of the asset, when we sell the property, So number two is capital gain income. We hold it over a year. We sell it. Then our tax rate is 0 to 20%. If we throw in there the net investment But it's a lot less than 37%, right, And then we have capital gains And then the third category, your head going Yeah. You have recapture. In recapture is when you take depreciation and you sell then you're paying at your ordinary rate, but it is capped at 25%. So that's actually a big one. It's capped at 25%. I'd be able to say recapture is 25%. And they're missing the planning If we can create losses we could actually get that recapture Depending on what your other income is. And it gives us a planning opportunity That's what a 1031 exchange there for. I'll just ruin it for you guys We can avoid that entirely. We could spread it out with an installment There's lots of things Like the capital gains recapture. You got to pay no matter But there's things that we can do Now, what I'm going to be focusing against that number one type of income, and there's two big This is going to trip you out. Some of you guys You ready. There are two types cash and non-cash. I want you to start thinking in terms of or do I get the deduction and I'll go over the top nine And so I'm just going to put up here I'm just going to put cash. Hopefully And I'm just going to go through one each type of deduction And the manner in which we see it use. So number one is repairs. I need to keep something in good I need to fix things like I got holes I get to write that off for dollar against my cash So if I have rental income, And the easiest way to think of then we pay tax and then we So like when you go to your job, your job and you get paid, They take the, you know, and employment taxes out of it. So they'll give you a $0.60. Right. that's not the case. In rental. You get the full dollar, the amount of that dollar So businesses earned income. Then they spend it So if we spend money on repairs it just At the end of the day we're going to have But repairs, there's a huge difference So a lot of you guys get a property The vast majority of that remodel It's bettering the property. And it is not a repair. It's actually considered an improvement You don't get to write off as a cash You're going to add it and you're going to write it off as a non-cash deduction under depreciation, It doesn't mean you're not going In fact, you may get to write the whole thing the improvement. There's ways to do that. But it's no longer a repair. Now there is a safe harbor for repairs. Hey, if I fix stuff like I have a If I replace the roof, I'm going to end up adding that And I'm going to depreciate that I'm going to write off the old roof, I hadn't deducted immediately And I'm going to take a big old deduction in that year, Some of you guys think, I'm It doesn't work that way. Now, if I have a hole in the roof repair, I get to write it off. I did not increase I fixed a defect in one of the assets. That's it. If I better then chances are it's Unless I can keep it Now that safe harbor doubles to 5000. If you're keeping financials than taxes, the sounds weird, and you're having to do loan reporting, your safe harbor is probably $5,000 We like that, right? So that gives us a bigger deduction. So we want to watch our repairs. We don't want to just willy because a lot of accountants will do that. You want to be able to say, hey, I fixed this issue like, hey, One was busted and I fixed it. Okay, I'm going to call that a repair. I'm not going to call it a betterment. It's under 2500. They can't contest it. The IRS. But I got to make sure and making sure and not saying, oh, these are all just No, we don't want that. We want to make sure Number two, I'm just And I'm going to give you a bunch your accounting, your legal but more importantly, your insurance. More importantly, if you have to evict if you get sued, anything as professional fees yeah. Insurance goes into that category. Lawyers go into that category. Your accountants We want to make sure It came out of my pocket. I want a deduction for it. I want to write it off against my income. And that's what we're going to do. Number three, property taxes. Unlike if you're an individual assault limitation state and local when we're an investor, even if it creates a loss. So we want to write off our property I wish I had a nickel for every time somebody forgot For whatever reason, people forget that when they're a landlord. Sometimes it's coming out of the mortgage. We just don't think about it. Make sure that you are looking for your property taxes number four, wages. I see contractor costs and management. So I want my management fees. I want anything I want to make sure that I am deducting. So if I am paying, you know, if I have an employee that's running around my apartment to do work on things, that I'm paying for them even though I may not actually issue Right. They may be collecting my rent what's left after they do the repairs I may just be getting the net. I still need to capture that on my profit and loss, and I want to make sure that I'm Good accountants, good to know how to read those statements. And they're just going to go straight But you like you've got to these are the things that I want to see At a minimum. Number five. Mortgage interest. All right. Now I'm going to break Sorry. That mortgage interest Why do you guys oh, you can't write it off you know, the acquisition of your property of your personal residence, You access that he lock That interest is deductible, property is deductible. There is no hey, it's up to 750,000 If you bought it before this period. None of that nonsense You guys get to write that off, period, So let's say that I used a credit card with a credit card and you're like, not a mortgage, it's not mortgage And it's on my investment property. I'm writing that sucker off. Period. Those are your cash. This came out of my pocket. These are things that I actually had to have paid with cash this year I, there's four noncash and I'm so that you see it. And I'm just going to go six. And this is our big one. Depreciation. And here's how it works I buy a property. There's the land on which it's sitting. I can't depreciate that There's the box on that land. The IRS says that has a useful life. The useful life for residential property Technically, you're supposed to break your property It's seven year property, it's 15 year property, and it's 27.5 If it's commercial, it's 39 years. But I have a useful life for the box You might have multiple boxes, Hey, I put a parking lot in that is not 39 year property. A lot of folks immediately writing things off You know, you get a deduction So if an asset has a yeah, Even if I finance the entire amount useful life, then I'm writing off Why on earth would I write that off Or I'm getting $3,000 a year over this I am really messing myself up And as a landlord, you have it in these things off The IRS will allow you to use something Just write off the house over 27.5 years, that's what they state, go When you change to the right, treatment. So when I get a rental property and I look around, Right. Hey, there's window coverings. There's five years removable flooring, I go in the backyard, I see an appliance over there. I see the electrical That's five years. Now, how about the if it's the dishwasher Okay, that's five years now. It's not 27.5 years. I go in the backyard and I see all this new landscaping I see a new driveway, 15 years. I see a walkway, 15 year property. I see new trees, 15 years. I get to write those off much faster. It's up to me It's called a cost seg. If you want to get these broken down but allows you to write off the improvement value in as short It's called cost segregation but it doesn't come out of my pocket. I could have financed the entire purchase and the tenants so that that realistically, nothing is It's going up in value. I have a little bit but it's buying that property for me because I'm depreciate that I draw off of that property or a negative amount, It's the old adage in accounting, it is And this is why. Because depreciation is the secret sauce. They're number number two on that. The number seven total So. After. And you're used to this as an individual. Right. If I buy a house and I live in it before we when I sell it, If I'm single, it's 250,000. If I am married, it's 500,000. So we're used to those types There's Technically it's a deferral. But if you just wait, you if you just keep your real estate It excludes the capital gain Remember we had three types of income What covers those last two? Yeah I'll see if I can put the right It covers the, depreciation recapture I can defer All I have to do is die And I never pay tax. Now, unlike the exclusion for your home, I can use it every two years There is no cap for a 1031 exchange, multiple times per year. It's per property and I could do this, and I can use this for tens of millions, A property if I want to. So I have a much more powerful And then again, it doesn't cost me Like I'll have to get that qualified There might be an expense for actually I could exclude millions of dollars again for without incurring the actual expense. I can literally just go out I could do no money down, There's But there's a non-cash tax strategy. Huge deduction. Right. Again keeps you from paying any tax Technically it's a deferral. But I look at it as in my tax toolbox Number eight. And this is for if you are somebody who is making positive and you want to offset it and create losses, then there's something And there's real estate professional. Active participation What it does, it allows us to take losses from our properties that are passive and use those passive losses as non passive and use them against things So let's just say that I'm making $300,000 and I'm like, gosh, And I go and I talk to my accountant you know, like, hey, as real estate professionals. And we could unlock some of these losses paper losses because of your depreciation Plus you've grown your portfolio so much. But we've avoided all of our tax. But we have all these losses. How do we unlock some of these losses Well, we could fall into We could be a real estate professional, but what it does is it allows you as ordinary loss, ordinary You could use it against your W-2 income. You could use it and actually get yourself Active. You have a limit of $25,000 a year. But there's an adjusted gross income You start to phase out. So if you make over $150,000 a year of adjusted gross income, Then you would lose the ability If you're a real estate pro, You can do that. And then the last category, number nine. Is something. Home office. In the Home Office, the use of a space in your in your home So if you have an area that's for your real estate activities, then at a minimum, the home office deduction And what I'd prefer to see you by using a management company or a, what we call it a family you want to call it. It's corporation needs to be an S And what enables us to do is write off because you are using the home, your property taxes, and reimburse yourself tax free. Not even reported on your taxes, At a minimum, if you don't have a management company in There's a bunch of reasons we do it, get a nice, if you're taking the home office, on business, it becomes a deductible mile and we can start So that typically when you commute, If I drive to work, can't write it off, And especially if you're in real estate, especially if you have multiple properties Now, anytime you live in your house you're going to be writing off that mile. So the other cash and you're non-cash now I'm going to say this, please and I'm going to give you a bonus. Here's the bonus. Now I told you that you could be paying. I sees in wages. What I didn't say is that You don't have to do withholding. You don't have to do employment taxes. You can pay your kids. And if it's below the standard deduction, they don't even have to report you. They don't have to file a tax return. It's literally taking money and paying them non taxable world. And you're saying, to let me buy their clothes Whatever expenses they have to do something But if you're a landlord, get your kids. If they're under 18, teach them or teach them how to do Facebook. Teach them how to do your social media. Teach them. Make them part of your business because you could pay them tax free That's a huge one. And we see it up over and over again. If they're over 18, you could still do it. But now they're probably paying some You could be having Social Security, for federal taxes So if you're paying your kids long as you document it, It could be up to $1,000 a month. It could be more than $1,000 a month. You could be paying them whatever and moving it into their tax bracket. And yes, as long as they're doing something That's why when you start incorporating or a management company, because you could say, hey, they're doing these activities, they're And I could pay them to do it, just like if I could pay any third party, But their tax bracket is much, much lower. So that's a little freebie, who have kids that are under 18. If you're not doing it, because otherwise that money level up to $0.37 on the dollar Some of you guys are at 50%. Plus, get it to your kids at zero. Saves you saves you a dollar for every $2 It's crazy right? It's like being subsidized. We'd all love that. Hey, if you like this type of content, with anybody who you believe Thanks, guys.