The world today can feel soul crushing. Whether hours a day, are forced to sew t-shirts or are bombarded by headlines of sea the crushing weight of global capitalism While the destruction of climate chaos and the as science-fiction author Ursula K. Le Guin seems inescapable. So did the divine right changed by human beings. Resistance and change the art of words." The story is a powerful change in the present. Stories plant seeds. germinate into alternative worlds that show us as we struggle to upend the current status quo what role do visions of the future hold? artistic utopias are out there that might bring What is Utopia? (And is it useful?) In the days of Karl Marx and Fredrich Engels, utopian socialism of their predecessors was not an rejected any form of utopianism. They immersed history and developed critiques alongside a theory This framework, unlike utopian socialism, argued reason or ideals; it would only be transformed by Or in other words, the direct overthrow of the Marx and Engels were critical of sketching out relying on those visions to create revolution. attempting to appeal to peoples minds, but instead contradictions within capitalism. The core of and the capitalist class. This is not to say nor that speculative fiction is useless capitalism. But instead, that as much as we need fossil capitalism and guide us through ending us something to struggle for. We need to imagine those brushstrokes of the future, are what at least for me, gives energy and purpose bringing these fictions to the page, to the of revolution. Which is why, as Ashley C. Ford imagination about what is possible without them, world you live in. Imagine something better. Get happen. Then fight for it every day." But these and indeed shouldn't be, perfect goalposts liberation. Indeed, as degrowth scholar Giorgos Harvey "we should oppose utopias that are meant are unrealistic, but because the realization of a everything that stands in its way." Kallis goes ones that are contradictory, messy, and incomplete this means we need to envision, in the words of Countless authors, filmmakers, artists, and future worlds. So that it's not just Elon Musk controlling the narrative of what's possible. crucial to sustaining the fire of an ecologically up these futures right now? Which artists are Visions of the Future: coursing through these future worlds are political capitalism is possible. Degrowth, eco-anarchism, capitalism that is just and ecologically sound. achieve these tendencies lack engaging narratives. technical terms like "means of production" and it is crucial to understand the political and we need stories to fill those frameworks with of sugar that makes the medicine go down, or the revealing the beauty and flaws of more liberatory the pontency of envisioning future worlds. submit a jargon-heavy Green New Deal proposal together with Naomi Klein, painted her own vision in order to sway peoples hearts. [XXX Play clip]. ground their platform in personal anecdotes. reveals in his research, when we hear a narrative chemicals that influence us to create change. So, not only direct action and political struggle, but suffering and success not just in the present, but of the future. And there are already countless the core examples is Ursula K. Le Guin's The the specific contours of ecological anarchism. The the resource rich planet of Urras that squanders market economy, and another on the resource anarchists who thrive communally on very little. planets. Opposite in the sense that the planet but also opposite in the sense that, as degrowth "Anarres is what Urras is not and Urras is barren-lush, horizontal-hierarchical." Le Guin she shows us, through, for example, the are unable to conceive of a prison because their of our current world. Or through the massive collectively maintain. The Dispossessed reveals future. As philosopher Andre Gorz notes, the know of the seductions--and snares--of...anarchist and ecological utopias has blossomed since Le for example, has witnessed a bright new emergence look very different from the capitalist extraction solarpunk world of electric apple harvesters, lush and small technologies that tighten the a perfect example of a Solarpunk future. One humanity through appropriate and community-centric The imaginings of Solarpunk artists reveal that in scarcity or giving things up. It instead shows with appropriate abundance. Susan Kaye Quinn's glimpse into a Solarpunk world. One that isn't a but instead reveals that struggle and loss will Quinn's future zooms in on a tea farming seeks to decolonize tea through education and fair chosen family all grows the tea together, ["The carbon and make your own energy, but the tea from the passive solar design and geothermal windmills."]. But in a very Solarpunk manner, of harvesting tea in the blistering sun of a harvest bots. But of course not everything is pure to stay afloat after a heat dome scorches seven drones fall into disrepair. ["She had only four it wasn't near enough. Two were out for repairs, the farm's bot keeper, was laid up sick in the is promising, there is still loss and pain. certainly be more pleasant to live within, Alongside Solarpunk there are also visions of the afrofuturistic vision of movies like Specifically the capital city of Wakanda seamlessly melds accessible transit, with thrumming markets, and the integration of ecological living. All the while trying to like without the destructive influence of white and is expanded in the Indigenous futures of into the complicated impacts a future where the meat industry had been shut down and plant-based replacements..."] and how that ban might ["He, himself, had never liked the of meat-being-made and had watched with prices had come along with the industry. He had fished by all those who couldn't afford the Each of these fictions grounds notions of and anti-colonialism in tangible vignettes. They and allows us to stretch out our legs and walk for a moment. But there are also future visions bring the power of the story to their political way back to utopian socialist William Morris' socialist world in the year 2000. A world without or prisons. Since Morris, there has long been the fictional to give the struggle emotion and step into another world or another person's shoes Patricia Valderrama writes, "Fiction can transmit language." Troy Vettese and Drew Pendergrass their book Half-Earth Socialism. After mapping Socialism through discussions of planning and creating a decolonial and biodiverse world, waking up in a future that has achieved some the protagonist inhabits does sound beautiful, their vision. The solar factory workers still want that vacation is provided for by the community, and I do like taking the train to the beach they converted into a resort."] and there are cap on energy usage should be. ["I can't believe that farm... are pushing for a 750-watt quota... 1,750 watts is not luxurious, and you know it."] at the local cooperative-owned farm that services a completely different future from our present. is democratically and ecologically planned. unlike very nice dorms, where families can raise and enjoy quiet games of cards after a filling of political possibility. In contrast, the youtube different: a world built on hemp-based production. produces and builds a socialist and ultimately a ["reindustrialization of the globe with a production of goods using a combination of negative raw materials'']. All of these worlds, of the Annares reveal the energizing possibilities are just possibilities. To make the many worlds struggle of building liberatory, zero carbon, Building futures today: pieces of imagination, they are bits of poetry. That's Murray Bookchin, a political theorist ecological vision of the world that seeps into the And hopefully the glimpses of the future worlds are a double edged sword. They can change us, the comfort and beauty of an unrealized future. to numb the pain of the current ecological and us by revealing that other worlds are possible. but beautiful futures if we struggle for them in farmers collectives right now, like the Seven for some in Atlanta, defending their largest means organizing your workplace to demand stronger ecological, post-capitalist solutions like the Socialism. This work of building those visionary practices of Nowtopias. Developing more ecological self-administration, DIY attitudes, and freetown of Christiania right in the middle of model. After a group of anarchists and ecological the Danish government eventually ceded while still having to navigate the realities of ecological and anarchists organizational K. Le Guins's Anarres: ["on some fundamental we collect our own garbage we do our own road children's institutions"] Christiania is just many other communities out there, like the 2,500 struggling for worlds beyond ecologically to dream. Take a moment out of your day and decolonial, and just glimpse of the future. but most importantly start the work, and