(dramatic brass music) (suspenseful orchestral music) (chain clinks) (grate slams) (tense orchestral music) (hooves clop) - Easy, Vern. - You want to get me caught again? I can hurry him up. - Would we have yanked you just to get you caught again? - Them people back in Burn me alive. - You had a bad fall, Vern. Maybe you're hurt inside You gotta go easy. - What's, what's keepin' him? We always been able to - Easy, Vern. (hooves clop) - We ain't gonna be able Wilson's dead. I saw his grave, and then and there's new people livin' there. - [Vern] Well, all right. - The horses won't last - I said we go. (knocks) (knocks) - Sorry to bother you, ma'am, - Please bring him in. - Over there. I'll get my husband. Gil. Gil. - Ellie, we're in trouble. - Gil, there's a man in there. - Mr. Barrett's mare - The man's hurt, Gil. - Good evening. What's wrong? - Horse threw him. His ribs - Take a big breath. (Vern inhales) Easy. Easy. Stand up. That's it. You got to stand up. I don't guess you live around here, or, you wouldn't have come to me. - Gil. - We're just passin' through. - Guess you're on your way into town. I hear they're gonna burn - We're headed that way. - Hold this end for me. Is it tight? Well, if you can't grip - [Banta] They do the work - Thanks. I guess that man deserves - You reckon he does? - But we're not the ones to do it. That's what we have laws It'll see justice done I'd stand or fall by it. And I fought against it. - You did, huh? - That should do it. - What're you chargin'? - Oh, there's no charge. But when you get to town, - Why wouldn't we come to - Well, they're all Yankees around here. Like I said, I fought for the South. It's hard for the winners to can come to admire what they fought for. Be a while before they (dark orchestral music) - Where's Ault? - Horses in the corral were fresh. Ault's gettin' the last one now. - Vern, not them! You're crazy as they say you are. Vern, come round here! (distant hooves clop) - Ho! Come on! Hah! Hah! - Anybody home? - [Ellen] Neill Price. - Ellie, Gil. - [Gilman] Hello, Neill. - I know, some of your cattle and you need Gil. (chuckles) One of our only visitors, and he keeps his cattle healthy. - Only visitor? Why, you had - On their way into town to - Well, that's what I came - As far as I'm concerned, there's not much reason - Not much reason? Well, maybe you don't think Goodnight, Gil. - Goodnight. - Goodnight, Ellie. (door creaks) (melancholy orchestral music) (Gilman sighs) - Things would be a lot simpler (muffled hooves clop) This is gonna be a matter of waiting, and it only takes one to wait. Goodnight, Ellie. - Gil. Is it what you really want? Staying here, trying to make a go of it? - What I want, I've got. You. Now, you get to bed. Thanks. - You keep it on. (hooves clop) - Well, just like all Been some in, been some out. I hope the other patrols had better luck. - This one's a veterinary. - You wanna try him? - Orders are to try everybody. (dog barks) (hooves clop) (dog barks) Look around. (knocks) (knocks) - Oh, won't you come in? - Your name Hanley? - That's right. Can I help ya? - Maybe. Do you mind if we look around? - Help yourself. What's going on? - Last night, a butcher and a peace officer. A butcher named Brechene. - And he got away? - What makes you think he got away? - Well, you're not here You must be looking for something. - [Lieutenant] You were - I fought for the South. - [Lieutenant] Anything - Well, about four o'clock, Before that, I bound up the ribs of a man who'd been thrown from his horse. He was half out of his mind with pain. - Everything all right? - [Soldier] Seems to be, sir. - A horse doctor takes care of a man? And that's not unusual? - Well, when they can't why, I sometimes get human patients. I don't do much for them, but - Gil. Is it all right if I put till Mr. Barrett comes? - Thanks, Ellie. - Let's go. - Better wait a minute, Lieutenant. (dark orchestral music) - You ever see this before? - [Gilman] I don't think so, no. - Those your horses out in the corral? - [Gilman] Certainly. - Tell him. - They've got the Randall's brand on 'em. Two weeks ago, Brechene - You're not talkin' He couldn't find anyplace else to come to. - I suppose you never Didn't know what he looked like. Make the answers good, reb. - [Gilman] You ever seen him before? You know what he looks like? - I haven't been helpin' him get away for the last two years. - [Gilman] You trying to say I have? - You trying to say he for the fresh horses Just left it as a gift! Is that it, reb? - What does all this mean? - It's simple. For a year, we've been looking for the man who has helped Brechene and now we've found him. You're under arrest for with Vernon Brechene against - Oh, no. Now, get outta here, before... - [Ellen] Gil. - And in view of the by willfully aiding and from the United States Army, has forfeited all rights We will prove, beyond a doubt, that this man is guilty. (ominous orchestral music) - I saw those strangers - No, Gil didn't say except one was a patient. All he said was there wasn't much reason for goin' into town. That doesn't make him guilty. - The only horses in Hanley's corral was the ones Brechene - And this is the saddlebag with over $5,000 in it. - The court, having materially the evidence produced, finds guilty. - The only guilt here is yours. - Silence. - This once, you're going to listen to me. Has one of these witnesses actually proved I ever saw Brechene before that night? Only Brechene can do that. Or one of his men. Find Brechene! Find any of his men. Let them declare they ever in their lives had anything to do with me! - The prisoner will maintain silence. - On your feet, Hanley. Hanley, on your feet! Someone to see ya. Can't open the door, lady. (melancholy orchestral music) - Oh, Gil. Gil, darling. - Ellie. Ellie, you've got to get to somebody higher up than these people. Once they learn what's going on in there, even if it's too late, get to them. - You haven't heard? - Oh, what's there to hear? - They've caught Brechene, (footsteps approach) - Take these two along. Brechene, this man claims he's not now, and never was connected Do you deny or confirm his claim? - Tell him the truth. - You didn't do a very good job, did ya? With the money I left ya, you could've bought your - You can't save yourself. What further harm could it and save a man that helped - I don't know what you're mad at me for. You wouldn't want me to lie, would ya? - [Officer] Place him in his cell. - I got a hundred men they can't find. Maybe you can tell 'em where they are, and what they're gonna do next. (dark orchestral music) - You were the one who himself, identify you. - Oh, Gil. (gasps) Gil, Gil. - Time's getting short, lady. Come on. - [Ellen] No. No, no. - [Guard] Come on. (Ellen gasps) (dramatic orchestral music) (gun fires) - But my husband's alive. He's alive. He wasn't That means he wasn't guilty. He's free. Free to come home. By what right do you refuse to tell me what you've done with him? Does a human life mean so little to you? - Mrs. Hanley, I've done by commuting his sentence Take my advice. Forget him. (ominous orchestral music) - [Guard] Down you Get movin'. Most faster! Keep goin'! On your way. (muffled explosion rumbles) - [Guard] Prisoners on the water wagon! Prisoners on the water wagon! - Tell the Comman that on the water wagon! Get 10 men to unload the wagon! Still afraid to drive inside, huh, frank? - I'm called on to deliver Here's the consignment. - Let's take a look at the livestock. Six new scurvies. That means six less barrels of water. Get 'em outta there! - [Guard] All right, out of the wagon. Come on outta there! - All right, you Come on, get a move on. Come on. Come on, get a move on. - On your feet. From now on, anybody gets he can take a free swing at me. All right, inside. Quick step! - All right, you scurvies, Prisoners, halt! - Address is right. Now, I want your hats off. You're gonna meet somebody. You're gonna meet the commandant. Lieutenant Voorhees. Maybe you're not gonna like him. More important, he's not gonna like you. Come to attention! - [Guard] Easy with those water barrels. Take care of that water! - Consignment from Fort Jackson - [Voorhees] Jackson? That mean, well, we must of Mr. Gilman Hanley. Which one is Hanley? - Right here. - Now, why wouldn't they Look him over, Dr. Pelham. It's like this, Mr. Hanley. In your little group here is a deserter, a mutineer, a thief, and a murderer. But you're the only one that Guerrillas burn down homes, You'll find I have a special Hm? Now, because you're our new boarders, and because we want you we're gonna conduct you on a little tour. - All right, you scurvies, move along! (dark orchestral music) - At their lowest point, those Even if you found a and somehow managed to climb these walls, you know what would hit you in the face when you got on the outside? Hundreds of miles, in every direction, of the deadest, driest desert No man who's ever been across that desert to the Mexican line. Just bear in mind that and none of you is gonna be the first. Let's say a guest did manage You don't think we'd with a thirst, do you? Why, we wouldn't be that inconsiderate. - [Sgt. Maj. Kearn] On your feet! - They look like Apaches. Beside them, Apaches are tame. They're Pimas. You know how they earn their pay? For every escaped prisoner they bring out of the For every dead one, $50. They'd like to see you - [Kearn] As you were. - As an extra service, we as the bake oven. You can see its effect for yourselves. (doors creak) (doors clang) With these majestic walls, and the desert, you can see for yourselves iron bars and numerous guards. I feel that you should also Absolutely none. However, we are making every effort to discover a source on our own premises. Now, we need water here. Very badly. Because, occasionally, we are visited by the fever. And that makes it very bad for everybody. But until we discover a source of water, we receive a supply once Well... This concludes our little tour. We bid you welcome. Hope you enjoy your stay. Get their shackles off, mark All except the guerrilla. I want him to come with me. - Guard! Blacksmith! Now you can put your hats on. - To send you here, they must've That sort of ties my hands, doesn't it? Why did they want you to - I'm here because they couldn't kill me on the evidence they had. - You really believe that, don't ya? Well, you don't have to worry - If you brought me here to tell me that, you're wasting your time. A few years ago, I used It'd take a good deal to You're the one to prove I made a mistake. - Well, it's clear that they don't want killed. Yes, sir. But these orders don't apply - You thinkin' of forcing one to try? - Well, I... I have to admire your spirit, Mr. Hanley. That's the kind of spirit it took for you guerrillas to burn down homes, without letting the One of ya burned down mine, with my wife and daughter in it. You're not gonna like what You're probably gonna want Get these shackles off Put him in with Redfield. (suspenseful orchestral music) - From now on, just think Open the grate! (chain clinks) Down you go. Right turn, guerrilla. (grate slams) Now left. Get 17 open! Like the commandant said. Welcome. Here's one of the reasons your water's gonna be short this month. - Get him settled, Jumper. - Jumper Hall is the name. If you think we're glad to We are not. But as long as you're This is artilleryman Nye. Fifth, Ohio. Still standing too close to the guns. - You make too much noise, Jumper. - This is Gundy Boyd. New York infantry. - Hi. Sorry to see you. - You met the Pimas on the outside? This one is on the inside. Ever seen a deformed Indian? Killed one of his own people. Now nobody likes you, do they, Hunchy? (Jumper chokes) - [Redfield] Hey, cut it - Sorry, Hunchy. - I said get him settled. - All right, Red. You can see we are a happy family in here. I'm the only who's got a My time in, you can count. Come over here. You got a long time to go in here? - Not very long. - Same with me. Less than a year! - Oh, you didn't ask to be put in with us, and we didn't ask to have you. Now, I think the smartest to make the best of it, right? - Well, what's that mean? - Just don't ever talk about Not even to us. We got an understanding? - Who says we need an understanding? - Oh, fine. In this hole, we've got to and you don't want to breathe with us. Now what are we gonna do about you? - That's up to you. - Open 17! (gate clunks) Here's your playmate, Red. Any of you got any complaints see him. - Well, you don't see anybody - You got 'em all too well - Just once, don't slam it. Sergeant... (tense orchestral music) Sergeant, let me see Doc Pelham. - He can't get you out - He can, if he knows - Well, Voorhees knows. - The cistern, it's like a - To a guerrilla? - You were. All Voorhees knows is what you turned into after you skipped the artillery. This is one noise he - I won't ever work in that cistern again. - Get your cup, Nye. (water trickles) (water trickles) - What about him? - Oh, don't worry about the killer. Guess he must like this better than water. (foot thuds) (dramatic orchestral music) - Bleeding from the nose and A man can die that way. I don't want you helpin' him along. - You don't? You come in here new, and - Red! - Let him go. Is this what you meant - Get your cup. (thuds) - You, against the wall. Lean! Turn around! Now, lean. Would you say everything's all - Yeah, I'd say. (chain clinks) - You know? They like nothing better In case you're ever thinking of running. - Thanks. - Still trying to make it - The man's dying. - Well, he better not die. I hear you're some kind of a doc. Can you keep him alive? - I'll do better than you've done. As long as you do, we'll (rousing bugle music) - [Guard] Go! (suspenseful orchestral music) - I told ya I won't go Go ahead and shoot! - Why, you... Prisoner loose! Prisoner loose! - Hold your fire. - Hold your fire! On the rim, hold your fire! - Why don't you shoot? Go ahead and shoot! Why don't you shoot? Go ahead! Why don't you shoot? Why don't you shoot? (dramatic orchestral music) - What a guerrilla wants - Go ahead! Why don't you shoot? Why don't you shoot? Why don't you shoot? - All right, Sergeant. - Commence firing! Commence! (guns fire) - Bring him down, Sergeant. - Mapes, Calard, on the double! Man ended up one of (dark orchestral music) Move 'em along. - Detail, forward! Quick step! Hard! - Keep goin'. Keep goin'! Close it up! Close it up! - Go easy when it starts. We've been digging for years, That's the way Voorhees keeps us busy. Just watch the dust. - Right turn! All right, get diggin'. (prisoners cough) - Post number four! All secure! Post number four! All secure! - [Soldier] Post number one! All secure! Post number one! All secure! - How is he? - He won't get any better in here. - That's it, killer. The last thing we want - He's a chicken dirt robber of the dead. - Real careful, Mott. Mott didn't wanna be a soldier. He lived all his life a Copper city. You know what he was? A prospector. You know where he prospected? In the desert. - You're never going to- - Easy, Mott. He's the only man who's ever been in here who knows the way across that And Mott's gonna tell me, when I'm ready. - First, you've gotta - I'll show you how things Come over here and learn something. - Hey, Red. I'll watch the door. - No, you won't. Hunchy! Keep an eye out. Look close. Hundreds of years ago, the Indians had a fire going right here. Now, I figure that where there's fire, there's gotta be a way It took me over a year to find went up high enough to be the outlet. You know where that smoke traveled? It curled in and out of these, until it found its way up that one. (rock clacks) (footsteps approach) Think we got somethin' worthwhile here? All right, let's get started. (suspenseful orchestral music) He follows me up. (suspenseful orchestral music) This is as far as we've gone. Broken pick heads. Made to order, for in here. Kearn's still lookin' for 'em. Well, we oughta break - Yeah, even if you make you've still got the desert - Three days before we go, I It's an innocent letter to a shoe shop, sayin' I need a pair of shoes. The third night, you know what's hidden, 100 yards outside these cliffs? Horses, and on those horses - I hope you make it. - Where are you goin'? You gonna work with us or not? - All Voorhees needs is to - It's kind of important anything about it. - Gundy, get Mott up here. He can work in the guerrilla's place. - This kind of work - You can't take a chance on Mott dying. (ominous orchestral music) - That's not the way. Look at it like this. The most of us are a long time here. This way, we have a chance. You can't stay awake all There's six of us. We'll be watching you. One morning, we'll come in Then, whatever it is you wanted You won't have helped Mott, and you won't have helped yourself. (Gilman sighs) (tool thuds) (tools clink and scrape) (melancholy orchestral music) - [Ellen] My dearest. It's dark outside now, and already the dawn In the morning, I leave for St. Louis, where Neill has arranged for who's staying over there, Neill says the senator is an Perhaps he'll help us. If necessary, I'll go back (footsteps approach) - [Kearn] Hanley, sir. - Oh, Mr. Hanley. I have a letter here from the Judge Advocate at your trial. He wants to know if you have You got any inclination? - Talk about what? - Brechene had over a They'd like to know where - That all? - Good. Good! I'm glad you have no I might've had to turn you loose. I hope you hold out, guerrilla. I hope you hold out till it's too late. That's all. - What about the letters from my wife? - Are you sure there were some letters? - I'm sure. - Like these, maybe. Well, yes, your wife has written you. I felt it best not to bother - Does she say anything about - Oh, yeah, she's written to Washington. She's been to Washington. She's done everything she can for ya. Tell me, guerrilla. Are you growing tired of our cistern? - Do I get my letters? - Take him back to his cell. - Don't! It might ruin its shape. Some kids learned arithmetic. I learned to pick locks. - Can you pick that one? - Sure. But where you gonna go after it's picked? - Maybe the guards on this level ask the guards on the main And the guards at the tunnel all decide to go to sleep. (Redfield and Jumper chuckle) - You're beat. You won't stand many days - Voorhees is in for a surprise. I'm gonna get used to it. You feeling any better? - Voorhees. - [Gilman] Lie back. - I scratched it on The way across the desert. Scratched. Right above your eyes. - What door? - You told him, didn't ya? - I told him I hope they (Mott groans) - It don't make any difference just give me what he told ya! - He said somethin' There's nothin' there. - Post number six, all secure! Post number six! All secure! (tool thuds and scrapes) (suspenseful orchestral music) - Hey, guerrilla! Come out of it! Come on! You won't have to fight We're there. We've broken through! Take a look. (ominous orchestral music) All this time, and now a Well, the rest is just like walking out. Now the rest is up to you. - Not up to me. - We've broken through. We're gonna rot, waiting - How close to outside? - He's through. - You mean they can try it now? - Well, there's nothin' in their way. Except the climb to the top, the guards, getting down the outside of the cliff, the desert, and the Pimas. Yeah, they can try. - You didn't tell 'em what Mott said? - Look, can you work that lock tonight? - What for? All it gets you is on the After that, you can't get nowhere. - There's some things I want - Commandant's office? You crazy? - Open it. In less than an hour, They'll leave the grate open for eight minutes. Whatever you're gonna do, (suspenseful orchestral music) This is crazy. Maybe you got a chance to If Voorhees catches... (suspenseful orchestral music) - Hup! Hup! Hup! Hup! Hup! (suspenseful orchestral music) - [Guard] Who's there? That you, Corporal? Halt! (dramatic orchestral music) (guns fire) Get Sergeant Kearn! - [Guard] In here! Couldn't make him out. - Open it up. (lock clinks) (gate creaks) Who was it? Don't give me the &quot;I don't know.&quot; Who just came in here. - Nobody. - You know what happens to liars, Gundy. - Well, maybe I gotta I said nobody came in here. I meant nobody. - You, you, and you. Outside. You know what's gonna happen. - Why them? - What difference does it make? Sooner or later, one of 'em - You can save the effort. I was the one who was out. - You lied to me, Gundy. You know the penalty for lyin'. Outside. - I told ya, I'm the one you want! - Sure. Only Voorhees will want (gate creaks) (gate slams) Let's get it off, liar. And I want to know how (whip cracks) - All on account of you. You wonderin' whether you're worth it? (whip cracks) - Their way, it takes all night. - And we got to wait for each one, too. (whip cracks) - [Prisoner] Speed it up. Speed it up! - Get it over with. - Get it over with! - All right, all right! - [Prisoner] All right, Let him down. Let him down! - Quiet! - Shut up in that cell! - [Prisoner] Get it over (prisoner gasps) (whip cracks) - [Guard] Shut up, you scurvies! Quiet! - [Prisoner] Let him down! Let him down! (whip cracks) - Are you gonna help us, or (whip cracks) - [Prisoner two] Get it over with. All right, all right! (whip cracks) All right! - Open up. - Not that way. You're more good to us alive. - [Prisoners] Down, down! (whip cracks) - Gundy's had enough on - Now, now, now, now! - [Guard] Shut up, or we'll - [Prisoners] Now, now, now! - [Guard] The more you (whip cracks) (whip cracks) (whip cracks) (guns fire) (guns fire) - Come on! - Grab those torches! Grab those torches! Get Kearn! Get Kearn! Kill 'em! Get a move on it! (gun fires) - [Kearn] Open the grate! - [Prisoner] Burn them! (triangle rings) (prisoner yells) (triangle rings) - Hold it. That mug (fist thuds) (Kearn yelps) (fists thud) (fist thuds) - You crazy mug! Come off there! Hey, break it off! (ominous orchestral music) - Get up. Who's responsible? - Him. All the way. - Inciting a riot. Well, providing nobody's been killed, it'll be a long time before But you'll feel it. (dark orchestral music) - Any life in there? - He ain't much on food, - [Guard] In a couple more days, he'll be leaving ya his water. (Gilman breathes heavily) (suspenseful orchestral music) - [Mott] The way across the desert. I, I scratched it, right above your eyes. - Come in, Neill. You remember Mr. Price at the trial. This is Colonel Woods, the Judge Advocate. Neill, it's happened. They're - [Neill] For a fair trial? - As I told Mrs. Hanley, her He's to be released under my custody, to report to me twice a month. I'll want a complete As well as a list of - [Neill] But that's not freeing him. - Oh, he'll be home. - [Neill] Sounds to me like - Neill. - You're hoping what's left will try to contact Gil, and - That's your own conclusion, Mr. Price. - Please, Neill, it's all right! - Hanley isn't being The full facts will be presented to him. If he decides to cooperate, there's a chance his - I want to remind Gil to thank you. - Good day, Mrs. Hanley. Mr. Price. - [Ellen] When will Gil come home? - I'll send a dispatch today. It should reach the prison tomorrow. But the prison officials whether the prisoner's - Thank you. - Open it up. Come on, come on. (latch squeaks) (door creaks) Well, Hanley. Dr. Pelham tells me you might die if we left you in there any longer. We can't have anything like Get him out. - Come on, on your feet! - Three or four days' you'll be able to come back here and pay off the time you owe the oven. Go on, take him down. - Easy. You've had a bad time. - [Gundy] Welcome back. - We didn't think you'd make it. - Anytime you're ready, you can send that letter to the shoe shop. - You're gonna give me the way? - I'm gonna show it to ya. - Post number one! Nine o'clock! All secure! Post number one! Nine o'clock! All secure! (crickets chirp) - Now, exactly where? - [Jumper] Right above that ridge. - Hm. - How do they know where - Oh, Redfield's got - What time tonight? - Right after the midnight guard change. - What makes you so sure the way across that desert? - Oh, I'm not so sure. Redfield's sure. That's good enough for me. - Mm-hm. All right, take him back to his cell. - You're not gonna put me back there now. But I don't want to make the try. I want to walk out of here. In less than a year! And I won't, if you make You'll never let 'em get to - Take him back to his cell. (door closes) - Well... You get your wish to One of the ones that tries (suspenseful orchestral music) - Hey, Red. What if Voorhees knows about it? He'll shoot us as we come out. - There's no way he can know. And he's out there, - Well, then I'd say somebody told him. Long as you're the one worrying about it, maybe you better climb out first. - I was just thinking - [Redfield] We'll follow you, Jumper. (suspenseful orchestral music) - Now, Lieutenant. - No, he's not outside yet. Hold your fire. I want him far enough away to (tense orchestral music) - Jumper. You tried to inform on us. No, I didn't! (fist thuds) (dramatic orchestral music) - [Gundy] Come on! (horse neighs) Let's get going! - [Gilman] Where's Jumper? - He didn't make it. - Well, there were five - You said guns and water! Let's get outta here before they find out and turn those Pimas on us. (ominous orchestral music) (strong wind howls) Well? - Another 15 miles and we're halfway. Let's go! - Are you crazy? All you've been telling me is we gotta stay in a straight line. Bog down in this storm and go back to the prison and start over? - No, we wait here for - They're on foot! - All right, you stay here. You tell the men to cross - I've sweated to get this far. Do you think I can't take lousy red sticks? You're waiting till I say. I've wasted too much time on this. You're not gonna get us lost. - You try finding the way by yourself. (strong wind howls) (horse neighs) (fist thuds) (fist thuds) (fists thud) (fist thuds) (fist thuds) (arrow whooshes) (Indians howl) (Indians howl) (guns fire) (gun fires) (gun fires) (tense orchestral music) (guns fire) (gun fires) (ominous orchestral music) (suspenseful orchestral music) (gun fires) (gun fires) (Indians howl) (dramatic orchestral music) (gun fires) - Hold your fire! - [Kearn] Hold your fire! Hold your fire! - Come on down here, Hanley. Where's the rest of 'em? - Dead. - Well, I almost didn't get here in time. That would've been too bad for me. They sent for ya. Officially. They want to turn you loose. But they've left it up to me. You boys did your job. You'll get paid in full, even if it has to come Soldier, pick up his horse! (ominous orchestral music) - How long overdue? - Oh, two hours. - Looks like they'll as the other details. - If they come back. - Well, a man can go and three days without water. Tomorrow'll be the - We had enough water here for two weeks. All the barrels were - Who knows about typhus fever? Decimated the Roman legions. Out here, one of our own guards Did he get it out of the filth Did he breathe it out of the air? All we know is it can That's why I emptied our supply. And unless we get fresh water- - Oh, get away from me! Don't talk to me. Go give him a pill, that's Good citizens have erected a They're afraid we'll come in contact with their wives and kids. They've fired on every detail - [Guard] Detail coming in! (hooves clop) - No water, sir. You gotta give me more men. They shot Mapes and We need a whole company to get through. - Guards! Get him to dispensary. - He's got it, sir. We can't touch him. - Now, you do like I tell ya! Get him to the dispensary. Come on, hurry up. Go on back. Go on back and tell 'em I got half this prison down with typhus fever. Dying 50 a day, and no water. Tell 'em they oughta shootin' my men down. All we ask is water. Go on! Oh, hold up, soldier. Hold up. Dismount. Never mind. Get yourself some rest. (Voorhees breathes heavily) - There's one way to get water. - Dream it up? - There's a prisoner. Knows how to cross the desert into Mexico. He could bring back enough to get us by. - The guerrilla? - He could do it. - [Patient] Father, please. Doctor, I've had enough. Little water. Doc, you've gotta give me some water. I'm gonna die without it. - I won't put it that - [Patient] Doc. - Or that there are three times this many who we haven't been able to bring up here from the cells below. They mean nothing to ya. All you can think of is that and that's the last thing you want to do. - [Patient] Water. - I'm sure I'd feel that I can't promise you your freedom. I can't even honestly say that it'll change my attitude towards ya. 'Cause you were a guerrilla. All I can do is ask ya (ominous orchestral music) (patient mumbles) - [Patient] Water. Water. Dr. Pelham. (patient moans) - How sick is this man? - He may, or may not, regain - If he comes to, he can before the night he came to me. I don't know his name, the first time I saw him. (patient mumbles) - Well, it's up to you - [Patient] Well, they was - Speak up! - If he doesn't go, will you give him permission on the chance that this man may recover, long enough to clear him? - To prove he wasn't a guerrilla? Yes. Well, there's enough money There's a letter of authority, You might need this, too. I've still got a few guards They can go along with ya. - I told you I go alone, or I don't go. - Well, I'm countin' on you headin' straight across the desert, and not turnin' toward town, - That's up to you. - All right. You go alone. Remember, Hanley, Go ahead. (hooves clop) (suspenseful music) (dramatic orchestral music) Prisoner escaping! (guns fire) - [Guard] He's out of range, sir! - All right, all right. Cease fire! - So, Hanley decided to escape. But if he thinks he'll get to Copper City, he'll never make it. They'll get him at the barricades. What I came to report, the man Hanley counted on without regaining consciousness. (bright orchestral music) (suspenseful orchestral music) - [Gilman] Put down your rifle. Now, come over here. - It's one of the prisoners. - [Gilman] Hold it. If you'd shot me, everybody around here might've been dead in 24 hours. - What do you mean? - I want all of you to hear what I mean. Now, let's walk toward that barricade. - Wait a minute. You start shootin', he will. Now, he could've killed us, and didn't. He has something to say to us. (gun clunks) (gun fires) - I don't blame you. You're like me. You don't trust what you don't know. You're right in being scared of me. I've been with the fever. I told these men that if you and that's true. The very fact that you're here the fever will be How? You don't know. Your barricade and your rifles won't stop the fever from reaching you. Somehow, it's going to creep under or over those walls out there. There's only one way you can stop the fever from reaching you. Kill it where it is! At the prison. Don't give it a chance to come find you. All we need, for a start, is fresh water. I could've gotten it in Mexico, but it's six days there and back. I came here because it's for you, as well as for us. One wagon-load of water, and you'll stop it where where it began. And if it's stopped, it can't touch you. It's your decision. - Lieutenant! Lieutenant Voorhees! Lieutenant! Lieutenant Voorhees! Lieutenant! Look what's comin' in! (warm orchestral music) - Whoa! - Well, ya came back, Mr. Hanley. - What about that man? Did he come to? Did he say anything? - [Voorhees] You somehow - I'm sorry. Banta died before he- - Before he could sign his He cleared you completely. He told me you never were a You understand? - Yes. I not only understand, I - I'll get your case reopened. I'll stand witness for ya, myself. But you'll be home before Guard! Come on, let's get that water unloaded. (warm orchestral music) (uplifting orchestral music)