Hey, what's up everyone? My name is Luv Aggarwal, and I'm a Data Machine Learning. There's no doubt that this is an incredibly business professionals as well as technologists. or ML, is. So, before we get too far into the details, terms that are often used interchangeably Terms like "artificial intelligence", So, at the highest level, AI is defined as the problem-solving and the decision-making And machine learning is a subset within AI that's more algorithms that derive knowledge from data And then, finally, deep learning is a further learning is often thought of as scalable machine feature extraction process away and eliminates to enable the use of some really, really big But for today we'll focus just on machine and dive one level deeper and talk about the Ok. So, the first type that we have is called And this is when we use labeled data sets to train algorithms And when I say labeled, I mean that the rows in some interesting way that tells us something So, it could be a yes or a no, or it could different attribute. OK, so how do we apply supervised machine Well, this really depends on your particular We could be using a classification model which recognizes and groups ideas or objects into predefined categories. An example of this in the real world is with So, if you're in the business of managing minimizing and identifying customer churn, buy a particular product or service, and we more costly to acquire a new customer than So, if we have historical data for the customer, or not, right - we can build a classification our labeled data set that will help us identify allow us to take action to retain them. OK, so the other type of supervised learning Now, this is when we build an equation using determined by the overall value of their impact And we use these to generate an estimate for So, let me give you another example here. So, airlines rely heavily on machine learning, predict how much they should be charging for So, they use various input factors like, you the departure, the destination to use for how much they should be charging for a OK, so now let's move on to the second type "unsupervised learning". OK, so this is when we use machine learning data sets, and this method helps us discover for human intervention, right? So, we're using unlabeled data here. So, again, let's talk about the different One method is "clustering". And a real-world customer segmentation. Right. So, when businesses try to do effective marketing who their customers are, right, so that they And, oftentimes, it's not obvious or clear from one another, right, and clustering algorithms on the customer like their purchase history, you know, their social media activity, or website activity, could be their geography, and much more, to group similar customers into buckets so that we can send them more service, and be more targeted with our marketing Ok. And the last point I want to touch on called "dimensionality reduction". So, we won't discuss this in detail in this reduce the number of input variables in a over represent the impact on the on the outcome. Ok. So the last type of machine learning I "reinforcement learning". Now, this is a form of semi-supervised learning take actions in an environment. Now the environment will then either reward or punish it for incorrect moves. Right. And, through many iterations of this, we can Now a great example of this method in the So, autonomous driving has several factors, There's the speed limit, there are drivable So, we can use forms of reinforcement learning collisions, following the speed limit, and OK, so we covered many topics today, but you know, we've barely scratched the surface of each one. If you found any one particular aspect of you to dive deeper and learn more about it. common machine learning algorithms and how out some of the links in the description. Thank you. If you have questions please drop videos like this in the future, please like And don't forget, you can grow your skills which are free browser-based interactive Kubernetes