Now Sri Ganeshji will speak something Om Namo Bhagavate Sri Ramanaya Om Namo Bhagavate Sri Ramanaya Om Namo Bhagavate Sri Ramanaya With prostrations at the holy feet of Papaji, I shall try to fulfill his order to me that I should talk on the habits of Sri Bhagavan. My little shastra vasanas raised a question whether a Jnani had any habits. Then when Papaji has specifically said habits, there must be a purpose, So I referred to it in the dictionary, It said, habit means: a subtle So what is the practice of Bhagavan The one and only practice he had was cooking. And he is not an ordinary cook, (Sanskrit) Mahabhagayamah (great fortune) And what does he cook? (Sanskrit) He kills the ego of those And what is that bhagha? (Sanskrit) That destruction is release from bondage. So killing is his most... our old habit. Ganapati Muni sings of Maharishi as the greatest cook, the greatest killer who makes very delicious dishes of the egos which come to the What is this killing? The removal of obstacles, or obstacle that is revealing the truth. Ignorance that has been destroyed by the very gracious glance of Maharishi. In fact, Maharishi laughs at this When he was asked what is the Maharishi mockingly made a profound but it is one of the most profound He said, &quot;Self-realization is &quot;which has never been there, &quot;and the establishment of Truth The destruction of falsehood, and the establishment of Truth, And this killing process, if you want an example, which has been destroyed he's seated here: a standing Because Bhagavan says, he says he is one, beware of He kills you without killing. And in fact, he calls Arunachala, the rare medicine which kills without killing. And Papaji is a standing example of having been killed without being killed. And he is doing the same thing here what Maharshi has been doing, dealing with jivas, egos, and destroying them. Papaji is doing it in a most pleasant way, making us laugh. And he takes us by the hand just pulls us within. And this, I have lived in Ramanashram for 30 years, doing service to old devotees. Perhaps, it may not be out of place if I tell you that I have carried upon my shoulders nearly 40 or 50 old devotees to the burial ground, attending on them in their last few days; looking after them. That's the only way: to have To live with them, to serve them, is the only way to know this trick of killing. It's not a technique which we can learn from books or even by practice, but it has to be given to us by Mahatmas. I have seen nearly 40 to 50 people, from the Maharaja to a sweeper; literally a Maharaja, and other grades of people If I tell all the names, but it will out of place. So Maharishi's biggest habit, was to remove the falsehood in us It's that simple. When Papaji I was simply thrilled to listen to him. It's not that. This is the message of Maharishi. We hold on to the body. And who holds on to the body? There is somebody who pretends That's why Maharishi says, the when you inquire it will vanish. So killing the ego of the earnest seekers. As Papaji says that fire of enquiry, fire of longing to know the truth. Third saying, whatever it is; Just by willing it, wishing, we can't get it. Everyone wants to be a millionaire. This is Maharishi's example. Just by, just by wishing to be a millionaire you can't become a millionaire. Just to have this fire in every one of us, we may wish it very honestly, very sincerely, just by wishing it. Because wishing is also just a thought, and when the thought is burned, That light has to burn. It is a vicious circle. And that vicious circle can be broken I would like to refer to some of the Maharishi was very insistent that he should be available to all, all 24 hours. Papaji knows this fact. Perhaps Maharishi is the only known saint who has insisted on this, that he should be available to all to have darshan. Of course, Bhagavan gave another He said, when somebody mocked it, &quot;Why this Maharishi wants And Bhagavan smiled and said, &quot;Yes, I want to be available to all &quot;so that I can have darshan of all these He just twisted the darshan word, he said, &quot;Yes, I want to have darshan In fact, during Karthigai festival millions of people used to go around the hill. Most of them are villagers, they used to have a dip in the wells which if there was no rain in the summer, They will have a dip, and with wet clothes And as brainy people would always do, people thought that these dirty people, smelly people going near Bhagavan so a small barricade the management had ordered There were two doors, to come in and go out near the doors, so that people But in the night, when attendants and making it in the way Maharishi asked, &quot;What are you doing?&quot; &quot;that these barricades should be removed &quot;and then put this way so that people &quot;Why do they not want them to come near me?&quot; The attendant said, &quot;and they very dirty, &quot;So they want that Bhagavan Bhagavan shed two tears And Bhagwan was the most obedient servant, just as he the greatest master. Bhagavan was the simplest servant also, He said, &quot;Oh, that was the rule, &quot;But they have not said anything They said, &quot;Yes.&quot; And near the barricade, &quot;I am telling you, bring the And then this attendant was flabbergasted. Because Bhagavan is not breaking the rule, but also, in a way, he's breaking the rule So he asked Bhagavan, &quot;because if I bring the sofa here, Then again Bhagavan shed a few tears. &quot;You know who are all these people &quot;I want to have darshana. Every one Till the last day, as Papaji knows, he insisted on having darshan. Night, he was to drop the body. In the early morning all the doctors they were having darshana Bhagavan refused. So Bhagavan's, that grace of glance, till the last moment he wanted With a single glance where the Truth is not camouflaged by mind. I have interviewed, like my dear many many many devotees And I had a small questionnaire also, the very first question would be, And the second question would be, Like that the questions will go on. For the first question, how they came to the Maharishi. But for the second question, from all sorts of people, Westerns, old age people, sick people, the answer was always the same, ditto. When they came to the presence of Maharishi, &quot;He just looked at us, looked at me, People may use different words, and, &quot;The peace that This is the same answer I got that by the look Maharishi could put them into their true state of non-dual peace which Maharishi repeatedly said, &quot;Your nature is happiness.&quot; How Papaji is doing here by just making Maharishi by one look could put us into that state of unalloyed happiness, maybe for a few seconds, maybe for an hour, a few hours. But everyone, very first sight, was to have that state of When later on Maharishi labeled it, He said, What do you want? &quot;What did you do to all these people Maharishi smiled and said, &quot;I gave them &quot;what they have forgotten. &quot;They are that state, but they &quot;so I just gave them a pre-glimpse This... And for this sole purpose Maharishi was making himself Then he said, &quot;Cooking, In the literal sense also, he was He knew all the culinary arts In fact, as Papaji knows, or old people, known people came early in the morning or the afternoon, Maharishi's first invitation will be, Maharishi gave so much of importance to sending anyone and everyone And there is a funny story I hope Papaji will help me to state that. T.P. Ramachandra Iyer was And on Friday night, in those days there Even train, they take from Madras, then reach morning, Saturday morning. Then be with Bhagavan Saturday and Sunday. Sunday night they will take a train and to attend their professions. Most of the business people, used to do like that. So this T.P. Ramachandra Iyer was, he will be waiting from Wednesday onwards he will be in a mood to go to Arunachala and be at the feet of Master. So from Thursday, he was having a fast. And then on Friday morning he felt, &quot;On Saturday morning &quot;Bhagavan will ask me to go &quot;so I can go and have lot of peace there.&quot; There were no male cooks in those days. So one of the ladies told me that, of the four or five cooks, her cooking She gave the reason also, that Bhagavan liked fully cooked things, other dishes have to be very well boiled. And many people, other cooks they used to take it away half(way) This lady is to boil it to the So he went and told her, Some six or seven varieties so many other ingredients had come, so he told her, you have to So she was delighted, &quot;and today he has asked me She prepared very delicious dishes and she requested Chinnaswamy, &quot;Today please permit me So she went and served all Of course, as Papaji knows, Bhagavan There is also a story there, that usually Bhagavan used to be served first, and some time afterwards they are not even getting enough So, from then he called that, Everyone, and in the last row So this lady, that day served Maharishi, and she was waiting for compliments But do you know what Maharishi did? He just put everything together. She wanted Bhagavan to taste and then compliment her, But Bhagavan mixed everything together and there was no compliments And she was so disappointed, and &quot;What horror you are doing like this? &quot;You wanted me to cook all these delicious... here&quot; Then Bhagavan smiled and then said, &quot;I have got only one taste. Even in eating he thought that there is &quot;You are all interested &quot;I have got only ek ruchi.&quot; (one desire) Coming to the dining hall, I would like to ponder over my own personal reminiscence with Bhagavan, because a few friends asked me that I should say something; When I was three years, four years old, I was in the kitchen watching the cooks taking buckets full of things to be served. And Bhagavan was seated, and I was inside the kitchen; And I used to be a favorite of all these cooks, so I had, I can blame my arrogance also there, mischief they used to tolerate. That day I started crying And in the young age my father used to call me only Shorty. I was less than meter height. And I wanted to... and I was not allowing them I was making a big scene there, Bhagavan somehow heard this. &quot;What is Then one of the ladies went and told him that Ganeshan is making he's not allowing us all to serve. He says, &quot;What does he say?&quot; &quot;He wants to serve.&quot; &quot;Bhagavan, how can he serve? The &quot;Oh, that's the problem.&quot; Then he said, &quot;Put in a small cup &quot;and give it to him and send him to me.&quot; Bhagavan is seated. Nothing is served. So they gave me this cup full of salt asked me to go to Maharishi. I went to Bhagavan and Bhagavan He said, &quot;You want to serve?&quot; &quot;Do you know how to serve?&quot; &quot;Do you know how much to serve?&quot; &quot;Do you know what to serve?&quot; All no, no no. Then, &quot;Do you know how much to take?&quot; &quot;Do you know where you have to put it?&quot; &quot;But still you want to serve?&quot; Bhagavan was so amused with this. So he said, &quot;Take the spoon &quot;Not that much. Put in half. &quot;the left hand, topmost corner of the leaf. &quot;And you should serve everyone And as I just now said, but I broke the rule and served him first, and he appreciated, &quot;Yes, This was all the blessings Another incident was, there was one Mrs Eleanor Pauline Noye she was a very staunch devotee of Bhagavan. She would always be crying, crying, crying. And whether in the presence she was always immersed in Bhagavan and over this joy she'll be crying. And as a small boy I loved her so much I used to go and sit on her lap. And after few years, when I was again when Eleanor Pauline Noye came, I was coming to prostrate to Bhagavan, Bhagavan ridiculed me, &quot;Eleanor has come again, And I became very shy. But this Eleanor Pauline Noye with whom at the age of three in the ashram there is a custom, at 10:00 o'clock all the children will be fed so that they may be hungry also. Also at 11:30 when Bhagavan used to take food, they wouldn't come and disturb others. So at 10:00 o'clock all the children will be fed. And that day I refused to come out and along with her went into the dining hall and a leaf plate was put, I sat in front of her and insisted This was a big horror for the families, and then from the leaf of a non-brahmin, That is, foreigners are considered To eat from that leaf was a real horror. It is not an imagined thing; So they were trying to persuade They teased me, tempted me, we will give you sweet, like this. And Bhagavan was just looking down and when they tried to take me Then Bhagavan looked up They went and told him that He's insisting that he eat Bhagavan just looked at me, and then said, Bhagavan &quot;Oh no, he is not insisting that he &quot;He has never seen anybody Noye was the only person &quot;So Ganeshan is fascinated &quot;that somebody can eat with something else. &quot;He can eat only by the hand, &quot;You bring a leaf with something served on that &quot;and then put a spoon on that &quot;and then ask him, he will come.&quot; So they did the same thing. They put a spoon and then a leaf plate, the moment I saw the spoon So Bhagavan is understanding of situations. It's very astounding how he could solve, and that he could destroy the ego, he could fulfill even the commonest, perhaps the most insignificant desire like this also he could perceive. Nobody, neither my mother, my father, or any of the very earnest devotees, all the cooks could not understand this. They thought that I was only insisting But Maharishi could see that I myself did not know. And Maharishi could see The moment I saw the spoon I went away. Maharishi's, this aspect, and of course, Maharishi's love for animals and trees, Maharishi used to say, &quot;Why you, &quot;and tree a standing man.&quot; This was his appreciation of trees. When, to pluck the unripe they pick the mango trees and there was a heap of leaves underneath, when Bhagavan was passing by He said, &quot;Is this the way to show gratitude &quot;Can't you, can't you have, be a little sensitive &quot;and get up the tree and then &quot;Should you beat them?&quot; And in the whole life of Maharishi, he has never pluck one leaf, And of course, you all know The other day also I want to narrate one moving incident. Maharishi used to have very, that is getting up, or going to bed, everything is very timely. Sometimes his stomach would be upset, and that's also because in the kitchen they will prepare something On that day, in the night, he had to go and very rarely it used to happen. And in those days cheetahs mostly near the ashram also, but Maharishi insisted by taking a torch and then he will go to the hill and the attendant will be going behind him. But Maharishi was very shy, so the attendant had to stay and Maharishi will get up And Maharishi, as I said, will come And devotees were always afraid that cheetahs might be hiding so they were always on alert. And that day, the deputed time was gone, second more than twice its time was gone, and more than that time when it was gone, and Maharishi, there was no sign The attendant got alarmed and got and then when he went the other it was so dark and he could some lick, some licking like that, only sound was here. and he saw with his strained eyes and then a sickly stinking, more like dog, was licking Maharishi all over the body. Maharishi had sat down, six footer, like Papaji, Maharishi was a six-footer, with very great difficulty only Papaji knows that. Without help he can't sit down, or From the couch he can get up. So he sat down and was talking to that dog, and the dog is stinking, sickly dog, It is licking down him all over, all everywhere, (Tamil) Licking all over the face, everywhere. And then, this attendant, to realized that some dog is next to him. He wanted to beat it and drive it out. He said, &quot;Don't do that. &quot;He has been trying to come &quot;He says that he tried to come to me &quot;and you people heartlessly turned him out. &quot;Now he has cheated you all. &quot;He has cheated you all and &quot;And don't disturb this.&quot; Then Maharishi requested the dog, Perhaps the dog said enough, and he got up and then walked. The culmination of the story is, the next day they found the dog dead. In the early morning, when they came out, at the foot of the hill the dog was dead. And of course, he was given Maharishi's kindness to animals; in fact, when once a dog where Maharishi was seated on the couch, everyone started to, &quot;Shoo shoo shoo.&quot; Maharishi got so annoyed, &quot;Just as you want to show your love to me, &quot;it is also showing love to me. &quot;Why do &quot;Just as you have got a human shirt, &quot;he has just got a dog shirt. So I was always moved by the way and his compassion for everything Once they were trying to beat a snake, like that, &quot;Kill, kill, kill,&quot; Bhagavan was so horrified. He said, &quot;if they are killed like that, He cannot tolerate any harm, When monkeys came around, &quot;It is their land we have occupied. &quot;If only they had, they the capacity &quot;because we have occupied their land. &quot;Can't you be patient with them? &quot;They are so compassionate towards us. &quot;And why can't you be From the highest killing of the ego, seeing the simpler of a child Satguru Ramana was so compassionate. But when I say this, I have to point out two apparent defects also in Maharishi. That is, many people used to ask me, whether Bhagavan ever got angry Because even to attribute was so sacrilegious to them. They used to ask me, expecting me but I used to disappoint them by saying, &quot;Yes. He had anger on two occasions, That is, when he used to be served with food, anything eatable more than the others, He wanted equal distribution. While talking about equal distribution, during the wartime chocolates one devotee, Western devotee and at that time, in the hall, there were 36 people, including Bhagavan. So Bhagavan said, &quot;Make 36 pieces of this.&quot; You can imagine how can you make 36 pieces. But that's... Bhagavan was so brutal Mahatmas, all mahatmas, give, but Maharishi was insistant always insisted on that. So when he used to be served more one lady brought puris, Puri's made in ghee, and the rest of the puris in oil. And that lady perhaps thought she was very wise, and since she was an old lady and then ate it and rest were given. Then when it was all over, &quot;Do you know today you have And that lady started crying, &quot;Yes.&quot; &quot;When you treat me apart from others &quot;you are giving me poison,&quot; he said. So his insisted on absolute equality is something I have never found And this, whenever they break One lady, self-cook, a doctor had said that Bhagavan if he only takes curd, yogurt, So Chinnaswamy asked For everyone. There were some 300 people there so they all could not be given curd. Without giving all curd to all, But Bhagwan has to be given She said, &quot;Don't worry, I will do that.&quot; So she took a laddle, a big laddle (of) curd, and almost fill it to the surface, And she went, while serving it, and then she went and brought this, and with that laddle she put to Bhagavan curd. How can you cheat our Master? So he looked up, and then &quot;Do you know what you have served me? And that lady got so vexed, And this was reported to Maharishi &quot;But why?&quot; he asked. &quot;Because your look she could not bear, Maharishi smiled. &quot;It's gone, three days. &quot;Three days already happened. &quot;I got angry only with that wrong act. So, immediately her fever also went away. So when he is served, he is or served more than the he got angry, not once, like this, two or three occasions Another aspect where if somebody goes and complains. Complains, whether it is factual or not, Maharishi used to say... which was a factually true thing, this particular person went and complained about another fellow devote Maharishi was so angry. &quot;You have come to complain &quot;If you are perfect, will you And Bhagavan gave such an angry look, And then he said, &quot;Remember, &quot;it's not there, it is here. &quot;If there is no wrong here, &quot;the registration of the so called others &quot;There are all these things happening, &quot;When it does not, like her, then whatever &quot;So there is; my dislike for her So Maharishi said, &quot;When you see wrong in others, and So whenever people went however true or however factual it may be, Bhagavan did not listen to that. And in one occasion he said, &quot;Don't think that you are &quot;You have come to complain &quot;that means you are already &quot;Relieve yourself first, &quot;before complaining about others.&quot; And in this respect, I remember, people used to complain to Bhagavan, that whatever works he had done, particularly related to them, scholars used to go and tell Bhagavan, &quot;This particular translation is Bhagavan will get very angry. &quot;The moment you see something &quot;Why do you complain? &quot;The very fact that you can see wrong there &quot;indicates that you know something right. &quot;So do right. Why your mind &quot;Why don't you, if it is true, So Maharishi's habits, as Papaji Every one of us can emulate, Nothing is hard, as Papaji has said. Even Paul Brunton said, &quot;This Atma Vichara, Self-enquiry, &quot;Bhagavan you say it is the easiest, Maharishi smiled and then said, &quot;The thought that it is hardest. &quot;The thought that it is unattainable. Maharishi's words, &quot;The surest way Maharishi, from the , from the every day, everything he attended - he did cooking, early morning, cut vegetables along with others, and every, every time he taught Once one of the attendants he looked at the clock. So Maharishi &quot;No, no, I want to meditate in the hall.&quot; &quot;Is it? See how you are cheating yourself. &quot;When you are cutting, if you keep total &quot;Now how your mind is not here. You think of &quot;There, when you sit for meditation, you'll &quot;So do, fully work, taken up at that So like that, from morning 3:30, And then he started grind also, he will grind paste for cooking and then read newspapers, And available all the time. Even in bathroom he was never alone. In the night, in the hall, that was his bedroom, that was his drawing room, And that Maharishi, every movement of him, And it is possible. It is possible. I have seen 50, 60 people of Bhagavan's In fact, moving with them has given me I don't deserve this. But the blessings give me this courage to sit here. Because everyone is Ramana. Everyone is Ramana. Brunton tried to call out Maharishi, Maharishi used to say, &quot;Die within, Brunton perhaps wanted to mock at him. He said, &quot;With 400 people in this room, &quot;if each one of them dies within, Bhagavan smiled and said, &quot;Whoever dies &quot;There is only one centre. That And that centre is the silence into which Papaji is constantly trying Before ending, I would like to narrate about this &quot;Be quiet&quot;. There is one German devotee, he came from Ceylon, Sri Lanka, He had a lady saint in Sri Lanka, very beautiful woman, And his good fortune was So when he went to her, she told him, &quot;You go to Ramana Maharishi He will give you a teaching. So he flew to Tiruvannamalai, And then he was trying to, He was asking Maharishi, &quot;Please, And as Papaji knows, no private interview But when Maharishi used to go up the hill, you are permitted to go along with him So this man, his name was Gauripada, this lady saint gave him the name Gauripada, he went along with Bhagavan and said, &quot;Bhagavan, &quot;I want your Upadesa.&quot; (Be quiet) He knew Tamil also; (Be quiet) It has two connotations. When I'm talking, if you start talking I will say, &quot;Please keep quiet.&quot; Bhagavan says, (&quot;Be quiet.&quot;) But he could not understand, so he thought Bhagavan was snubbing him, &quot;Be quiet&quot;, in a commanding way. So after few days he felt that &quot;But my lady saint, that saint has told me So in the hall also, he asked, Again he said, (&quot;Be quiet.&quot;) And third time also, when finally, he said, &quot;Bhagavan, &quot;and please give me Upadesa.&quot; Again Bhagavan said, (&quot;Be quiet&quot;) Again he took it as a insult He went back to Ceylon, Sri Lanka, and then reported, With all excitement, she asked, &quot;Did you get Upadesa from Bhagavan? He said, &quot;He just ignored me. &quot;And three times I thought of you, &quot;I was asking him to give Upadesa, &quot;all the three times he snubbed me. &quot;He didn't give me any Upadesa. &quot;Sit. Come. What did you ask? &quot;I said the same thing, &quot;Then what did he say?&quot; She went into ecstasy. &quot;And the second He said, &quot;Yes.&quot; (&quot;Be quiet&quot;) Third time also when he said, She went into esctasy. &quot;Any saint has ever given me any ... &quot;You fool. You have not received.&quot; And this is all ... himself told me. &quot;This shunya, (emptiness) So he tattooed in his arm &quot;Shunya.' I'm going to the bathroom and - Yes. Since Papaji said continue, I will continue. I thought I had concluded my thought. I will narrate, at least, one incident how he came to Maharishi. This devote, as you would all be very happy to know, the person who stopped Papaji When he saw, according to his life, that when Papaji went and saw Maharishi he saw the same person and so Papaji thought he's a fake. &quot;He called me to come here, and then before &quot;He's a fake sadhu. He's a fake master.&quot; So he was, in morning he had reached Then in the life of Papaji comes, and said, &quot;Why are you going away, &quot;you seem to have come from long distance, Then Papaji said, &quot;No, no. He's a cheat&quot; Then he told Papaji, &quot;Maharishi has While going to bathroom, Swamiji also didn't know, and Ganeshanji also didn't know, and I also didn't know. But due to this problem, how the memory works You see, it was... I was speaking about Patanjali, about nirvikalpa samadhi. He says &quot;Chitta vritti nirodha iti yoga.&quot; So this vritti, word cannot be As far as I know, it could be said but vritti is not that. Can you give me a better word for... Movement of the mind Movement of the mind. - Movement of the mind.. &quot;Movement of the mind,&quot; she says. Can be true. When the mind, there's a you have to arrest that movement. That is called yoga. And yoga is reunion of this That's what he says. So whenever any tendency arises may be of even God, That is what Patanjali says, you see. And also he says that, he says, &quot;This yoga, which I'm speaking about, That aphorism, I still cannot trace. What I tell you in the whole of and as spoken on many yogas and samadhis, savikalpas, chit vikalpa; all these can be attained It's a very small book and I This is published by Gita Press, Gorakhpur. I have read it many, many years before, many years before, and because I wanted to disappear and I could see anybody, And, you know, I have in the cemeteries, graveyards, And why did I do? Because the British were not leaving our country. And we made a revolution and I was the member Bhagat Singh, Sukdev, Rajguru, And they all had been arrested, So I said we can't fight the British. They have large armies. And if we go and throw one bomb in the So, I thought on a plan, if I get this yantra by which nobody can see me, so I will have one revolver, and first shoot the DM (District and go to the Chenab Club where only foreigners, Europeans and the English were allowed, So this was another thing in my mind and have one revolver and shoot, No police can find me. So, it was lucky, that this thing has and the credit went to, perhaps to Mahatmaji, and perhaps to revolutionary Ajit Singh who went to Germany, and then he was associate who raised the army, national army, Anyway, we are happy now And many people are here. We but against the misrule of I was there. General O'Dwyer, who had with which the Indians can move and not raise up, and whoever And it was in the Jallianwala... (Amritsar massacre - 1919) Anyway, Jallianwala Bagh, and the people were demanding freedom. You see, what you have to pay There were 5,000 people all around. And there he planted cannon, And people on the houses Even those people were killed. And recently, last week, we have So when you kill people, innocent people, women, children were killed by O'Dwyer. And later on, in a few years, He wanted to take revenge of O'Dwyer. So he had gone there showing his loyalty to the British Empire and he could get an entry pass He fired (at) him, you see, This man. So I was coming to Freedom is freedom. Maybe freedom from the invaders. Freedom from the ego, You have to win freedom And it will not work if your patient, peaceful and lovely. When the neighbourhood is bad, So first look at the neighbourhood. Your apartment can be very good, your street could be very good, Once Kabir says, (Kabira teri jhopadi galkatiyan ke paas,) (joh karni, soh bharni, tu kyo bhey udaas.) So Kabir was a saint. He lived in the locality of rascals and he could not mend them. He used to speak (with) them and they But then in the last he kept quiet. He said, &quot;O Kabir, you are living &quot;so you keep quiet, &quot;whosoever will reap &quot;he will sow the fruit of his karmas.&quot; So he was, Kabir, even he lay down his So ego is more wicked than the man. So you have to be careful. When you have to meditate, see these enemies don't touch you. This neighbourhood of mind, So when you will see it, And we are all living in the company and we do not know when And we are happy So, let go. You keep quiet. Sit down. And don't worry whosoever, They will reap the fruit So this is how to live wisely in this world. And very few wise people have lived, like Socrartes. The other day I was telling And also I include George Bernard Shaw, and Bertrand Russell also, because and the friends who have gone to Okay, good luck. - You have to carry on? Have you? I concluded, but because Papaji - So, I started the story. I can complete that story. Because, because I need some recess due to my physical ailments. For that reason, I am sorry that one but I was forced to. So as you can forget (forgive) a child, he can do. And he can do wherever he likes, nobody minds.