My name's Gary Stevenson. In 2011, I was Citibank's most profitable trader in the world. This is everything I'm authorized to tell you about being a trader for one of the world's biggest banks. You become the best trader in the world for one of the biggest banks in the world, and then somebody sits you down and threatens you It kind of makes you realize that they're the same f---ing people. When I started working, it was this kind of a I'm always reminded of, you know when you hear footballers from like the '90s and the 2000s talking about and the stupid, like, On my first week, they made and carry them up and trading floor, this kind of thing. There was a lot of that and there was a lot of to expensive restaurants and clubs and taken out to holidays. I got taken to Vegas when I was 21. Before, I went to Jay-Z's and then I went to Carmen I hadn't even started working full time. And one of the nights, it must've been like $20,000 you know, Vegas club. To me, it was really I come from a very poor background, and I was in a VIP table in LA with a bunch of, like, who looked just like the with at uni to hang out with them. You know what I mean? My specific desk started to make enormous amounts it was really crazy for me. I was super young. Some of the guys I was working with, like pretty crazy guys, and they started getting like And one of the guys immediately got one of the secretaries What it meant was the amount of money we were getting paid just for sitting in our seats went up a lot, which meant that you of money without it appearing like you were losing a lot of money. So, for example, if you're making 100 grand for sitting in your seat, you can afford to lose and not actually be Obviously, I know now that there's like this massive stereotype So I was expelled from school of cannabis when I just turned 16, and I was like, that's it. No more drugs. I'm off drugs. No more drugs ever again. So I've never taken cocaine in my life, and, you know, I turn up in the place, everyone's like going out 3 a.m., and getting to And I was like, how the You know, they're older than me as well. But by my late twenties, some of my mates were taking cocaine. And they were doing that thing where they talk, like, just and they're being really boring, but they don't notice they're doing it. And then, of course, that is what my whole And then I realized, like, f--- me. Were those guys just on And then since then, one of my colleagues who is very upset about the book came out and said he spent, I think he said he was spending 80,000 pounds a year on cocaine. Yeah, which is ... But the funniest thing is like, I had no idea what was happening. I had no idea what was happening. I thought he was an alcoholic. Probably the maddest thing from a very rich background, but he really took to me sometimes I feel bad him, because he really was good to me. He really like sponsored my and he would take me out And he lived in Clapper, which is like totally And he'd take me out with and we'd be going to f---ing Movida, which is a big, expensive club, and, like, expensive He'd normally let me go because otherwise I'd and he'd have to pay for a taxi. But it was like, &quot;No, stay.&quot; He kept me out later and later. In the end, I stayed around, ended up staying around his place. I woke up, I felt like s---. I went into the office, I just threw up. You know, I had to go to And the boss sent me home. Next day, I came in early &quot;Oh, did Rupert do that to you?&quot; And I just laughed, you know. Then when Rupert came Gary said, &quot;You did that to him.&quot; And I knew that he'd be furious, right? And at the time, he used to sit but there was an empty seat between us, and I just thought, don't look at him, just don't look at him. I could kind of feel him like And then I start to hear like, at first, just kind of like a gentle growling, like a growling in the back, And then I just think, f---, just don't look at him, don't look at him. And it starts to get like louder. This growling gets like louder and louder. He's on the trading floor I'm just thinking s---. And then I hear like, this And then I think like f---, I better turn around now because like what the f--- has he done? We used to have like all the computing stations were and he'd kicked the door so it like smashed into the brackets, and he was just kicking like that. And he was turned around in his chair, like leaning over towards me like gnashing his teeth and growling at me, like &quot;grr.&quot; And I just looked at him, it must've been at least 10 gnashing his teeth at And then I just f---ing the growling started to just chill, and then he just kept on with his work, and he never mentioned it again. That was it. There's these brokers who kind and their job is to You know, you say, &quot;I want to buy here,&quot; and they're supposed to find a seller. But in reality, what they were taking people out. And they had this kind of They know what you're like. So, you know, one of the guys wanted to go to like fancy restaurants another guy wants to get like VIP tables at fancy nightclubs, and another guy wants to another guy wants to go to sports events. But the truth is, when I even when I went to Vegas, we were going to like celeb for me, it was work. It was just work, and I be the Gary that these And it was quite fun. I didn't really realize. Because most people that go in there now come from rich backgrounds. Their dad was rich, their mom was rich, their friends are rich, all all their mates go to They're booking tables, and For them, it's just part But for me, it was totally taking me out of the social scene I was from. So I kind of hated it to be honest. And plus, there's this where like brokers will take you to like, I remember they took me to watch England, my first England game, they're like, &quot;Oh, can And then you realize like, oh, there's a kind of f---ing like hidden little quid pro quo here, which I wasn't really comfortable with. So eventually, like I started I don't meet no brokers, I I instituted &quot;Nando's only&quot; rule. So for Americans who don't Nando's is a popular I said, if you want to meet Gary, you go to Nando's Canary Wharf. I pay for me, you pay for you. That's the rule. But then, by then, I was like one of the biggest So like, so many people wanted I was eating f---ing Nando's every day. So I just sort of like cut it off. I became very antisocial actually. I think people realize like, Gary's just not this kind of kid. You know, the brokers, the traders maybe are not but the brokers, because their And also, a lot of the brokers and come from my neck of the woods. They realize very quickly to have a good time so that because that's exactly what they're doing. And they realize like, listen, Gary just doesn't really want, this is not his game really. And they sort of let me away from that. These guys are mainly people So they tried to like And what they make their internal politics. The kind of person who decides to make their money at an investment bank is The management is just like, it's just an absolute cesspool, really. I remember talking my manager's manager who in the book we called the Slug. I remember talking to like one of my mates on another trading desk, and he was like, &quot;I'll tell you you wouldn't hire him, would you?&quot; So I became the Swiss which is really, really young. And the way it happened was my boss, who was a Swiss franc trader, and he was a really nice guy, but he seemed a little bit kind of like dopey in a way. And he come over once to and the way he introduced himself next to me and he pulled out and he flicked through the magazine. He opens it like that, like that to me. And he's like, &quot;Do you like that?&quot; And I was like, &quot;Yeah, it's nice.&quot; The whole, one at a time, just like that. He didn't even say hi. He didn't say his name. And then I figured out this guy must be the new f---ing boss. But then, he stood up and he said to me, &quot;What's your job on the desk then?&quot; And I was thinking like, And I was thinking like, surely And there's this kind of moment and he's looking at me, and And I told him I'm the Swiss franc trader, which was my old boss' job. And he was just like, &quot;All right, OK. All right, fine.&quot; I loved my second boss, I remember once he sat me down just like, &quot;Gary, I really do apologize.&quot; And I was like, &quot;What for?&quot; And he was like, &quot;We can't And I'd never even asked one. And the previous year, I'd and he seemed genuinely survive on it, you know? And then I just said to him, What else can you say to these guys? Another time, my boss threw a because my colleague had got angry, and he'd thrown his phone at his screens. But obviously, like now they don't like smash. So he was like, it didn't So he picked up the phone, And then he started trying to So he was like hitting these like, &quot;Johnny, what's three months?&quot; But it wasn't working. He was just shouting, and then So then my boss shouted over And he obviously wasn't listening. And then he asked me what's wrong. And I said, &quot;I think JB's phone's broken.&quot; So this boss just went over to the end, just picked up a phone and landed on this guy's head. The weirdest thing is it totally, effectively calmed the guy down. Yeah, I don't know. The only thing I ever saw get escalated to HR was the guy who stole And even that, there was a that he shouldn't have escalated to HR, that we should've dealt Yeah, it was like that. There's just like a kind of You know, it's a very you know, we sort it out between us. We don't go to HR. Because the truth is, a lot A lot people get away with it, on it, management, maybe it's changed, but management, they're not going to ask. I was making a ton of Nobody ever asked how I was making it. Management never asked because if you're doing something dodgy, they would rather that just slide. They're going to get paid on When you lose money, a lot The worst thing from my perspective and from the perspective of you're no longer allowed to trade. And that's what traders want to do. They want to trade. It only happened to me once. I was only once ever in the red, which was in my second full So I was 23. I'd put a big bet on which had some risk to Swiss interest rates. And the Swiss central to negative 4.5% for some crazy reason, specifically using the I lost $8 million in a week. The maddest thing about it If I was allowed to keep that position, I would've made it all back. I wasn't allowed to keep that position, so you end up $4 million in the red. Then you have to fight your way out of it. I'm pretty sure my salary was which was a good salary for the time. I mean, it's not even P&amp;L is profit and loss, and it's the only thing if you're a trader, basically. And every single day, every your individual P&amp;L is calculated. Everyone's individual P&amp;L is calculated. And it goes around on a So every day you get a spreadsheet that tells you every single trader's P&amp;L, which obviously means like you're the best trader. But if you're losing It's very clear who the best is, and it's very clear who the worst is. And that starts to become how and it starts to become There's this kind of beautiful fairness to it in a weird way. And I think there's not a other than sort of the football pitch where a kid like me and compete with all of these families and be like the guy at 24. Traders in my department of their P&amp;L, but I And there's this kind of idea like you can't ask anyone so it was like really mysterious. And then this thing happened after my first bonus, when I got paid nearly 400,000 pounds, which will be like, at So much more than I've been expecting. And it kind of broke me a little bit and I just became like, oh my God, there's so much money to be made here. This is it. All we're doing now is trading. And then, obviously, the next year, I lost this $8 million And that just, again, beat me, like, you have to be better, you you have to work harder. And I just became like, I Most of the traders, in my opinion, we're not making huge risky positions, speculative positions. They're making most of their but they're kind of trying to pretend they're making it from their bets. But most traders want to be because that's sort of the Can you actually beat the market? It wasn't really till 2011 that I started to make some big bets. You know, like I always remember, in 2011, the Japanese nuclear disaster. I made a ton of money on the not because I'd been expecting it to be a Japanese nuclear disaster, but because I was betting You bet on economic weakness, this crazy thing happens that there's no way you make a ton of money. Well, some people are the You know, some people would've lost a ton of money in the nuclear disaster. People sometimes turn &quot;Oh, it's terrible that you made money betting on these things happening.&quot; I made money from the 20,000 people died in that earthquake, in the following tsunami. I didn't make that tsunami happen. I think that's important to realize. And these guys' job is to bet And they're very, very heavily The payment structure is very weird, or at least it was back then. You would get paid a but it would be like deferred. So you get this money in four years. Since I left banking, this rule came in, this EU law that limited which meant that the way payment happened is completely changed. Now, because of that bonus cap, what they will have to do instead is they massively increase your salary. And since then, salaries and bonuses have decreased massively, which decreases the and it also increases the of sit on your chair and sit So I won a card game. I won my job in a card game. I was a very good student. I did math and economics, But turns out, and I didn't the way to get a job, you have to get an internship So you have to apply on with CVs, and people at LSE would be sending like 35 CVs to different banks. But obviously, like, because they've kind of prepped for this, right? So everybody has like some like they founded the Junior or they're like concert pianist, you know? And I was like working in a sofa shop and like trying to become like a grime rapper when I was a kid. So I was like, ----, because we can't get in. But I had quite good reppers and he's a smart kid. A guy also in the math I didn't know who he was, walked up to me in the library one day and just said, &quot;Citibank and I want to trade It's basically a math game. You should enter that, and you'll win.&quot; So I was like, &quot;Yeah, Let's ourselves into this card game.&quot; And that's how I got my job. That card game is called the trading game. It's a betting game, basically. So there's a special deck some high cards, five players. We all get a card and then, essentially, we're making bets on what the So if I've got a low card, I should think it's going to be low, and I'm betting it's going to be low. I'm making sell bets essentially. And it's structured to be like a buyer price and a sale price. I had the big advantage, which the rules of the game Other people going into the event not knowing the rules of the game. If you are a math or economics student, when you play a game like this, you are going to immediately do this thing which you're taught to at university in mathematical subjects, calculate the expected these are the cards in the game, this is what we expect it to be. Oh, but I've got a really low card, so it's going to be lower, like this. Everyone's going to do that. That is the instinctive or an economics or a statistics So I've got a low card, I You've got a high card, you So I start saying 49, 51, And you're going to start saying 69, 71. It makes sense, but it's actually Because, No. 1, you card, first thing. But No. 2, if I'm there, and this guy's quoting around 50 and you're quoting around 70, I can buy at 50 and sell at 70 and make like 20 instant free profit. And I would, just did that. Bam, bam, bam, bam, bam, bam, bam. It's really, really But I mean, of course, I because I had the rules in advance. That's how I won the of taking advantage of Second round was the national finals. I developed a new strategy, of bullying the price around, It worked really well. Then there was a final of And this is like, if you win this, you're getting into the big thing. I came in with a really So I know, thought it was going to be low. And my strategy was to bully and sell at a high price. So I just bullied up, Game finishes. And I spent the whole game And like mathematically, it to lose, because the price was really high and my card is really low. But then when everyone the other cards in the game were the seven highest possible cards, which the chance of it happening by chance are like one in or something, ridiculously So I realized, I knew that the but I don't think anyone else noticed. And I was just thinking These guys have like Then the guy goes to the and he announced that I was the winner, even though my actual score in the final, the final was like negative. And he said, Gary's scores in the, like the warmups were so good, we wanted to test him in the final to see what he did if to see if he would like And he did back himself, and So we decided he's the winner of the game. Even though I actually lost. Tells you a little bit about the crazy people that work in this world, I think. The guys who did come to end up being really This CV cover letter, of classism in that. Because everyone has the top grade. Basically, it's based on extracurriculars. It's based on how good you are at like f---ing clarinet, basically. But then, you know, kids like objective methods, but they're best traders, really. So I was a trader, professional 2008 until 2014. I was at LSE, the London before I went into banking. Everyone at LSE is obsessed with banking, obsessed with trading. So you get a good sense And back before 2008, everybody which of course is the blew the global economy up. But the guys who were working in it before they blew the economy So everybody wanted to go there. I went into this unfashionable area, because they said you and you can start trading straight away, which is really unusual, Trading sort of changed in the sort of early 2000s, 2000 to 2010. It became a lot more mathematical. There's this cultural shift where it goes away from being ex-rugby players, of which there used to of thing in banking, towards, Harvard graduates, you physics graduates who are very I think &quot;American Psycho&quot; You know, it shows this guy's in banking, and he becomes a murderer, and he's really clearly a dickhead. But I knew people at LSE of his lines by heart. And they loved him, and the reason is because he's really he's in great shape, he's got he's got a really expensive flat. And I think no matter but he's a dickhead. If you've put that in front you're going to f--- a lot I had to wake up at, say, 5:30. 7:30 was like, you have to be So I'd be up at 5:30, looking through the emails, have a bit of breakfast, have a shower, cycle down through East London, get to work, try to get So trading floor in London is massive. Massive, massive trading floor. It's in a big skyscraper in Canary Wharf, which is in the East End of London, not far from where I grew up, It's only on the second floor, The trading floors are all quite low down. These are the floors that Long, long rows of men sort of, nine monitors, square rectangle around them. And most people have that, and they'll be sitting back You know, it's classic My trading desk was in the which back then had the very sort of boisterous laddish atmosphere. I came in first day in a suit and the guys were like, Whereas I think the European banks like Credit Suisse and Deutsche Bank, they like you to wear suits. And then I'd be checking there was a really big rush of 8 a.m. to about 10:30 a.m. So between 8 and sort of 10:30, 11, would just be a mad rush. By then, I'd be knackered. I'd go and get massive Nando's, sit there, smash my Nando's down. Then in the afternoon, because Citibank offers a which means there's a period where if you call up, you there's a period where you and there's a period where By our afternoon, we've they're doing the business. So we're sitting around, sort of chatting. But in the evening, yeah, you chill out, read the paper, check you're making money. I was making a lot of Then we'd finish at about 5. Earlier on in my career, with like the senior traders drinking and going to fancy restaurants. And I kind of hated that, to be honest. But by the end of my career, You know, I'd go, I'd cycle back home, I'd leave about 5, cycle cook dinner with my flatmate, you know, watch the football if it's on. Obviously, I'm waking up at 5:30. So, you know, I wasn't A lot of people were waking up at 5:30 and also big on the nightlife, and I didn't understand how they did it, but I think I understand more now. The thing is, even when there's only sort of three And that was because I was the that was definitely the What you really were at the time, you were the risk holder. You were the risk holder. Your job was to be the person who made the decisions and took the risk and who took the hit if you were wrong. The first thing is lots of different kinds of traders trading, lots of I was an interest rates trader. It means I was borrowing Interest rates traders And the idea is quite simple. You want to borrow at a low interest rate, and you want to lend at So a lot of what is done on the short-term interest is one-day loans. Corporations, pension funds, hedge funds that have loans running out and say, &quot;We've got a loan in six months. What interest rate will you give us for a loan starting in six months' time?&quot; On a very, very basic level, sometimes just because the central banks raise rates, and they cut rates when So in a very broad sense, although we are also looking we're trying to judge the In my desk, there were about 10 traders, and each trader's job was to and you kind of get It's split between what you'd and what they call emerging So on my desk, the rich world desk, we're basically doing Europe, Japan, North America, Australia, New Zealand. First, I was, you know, desk Then I was New Zealand dollar trader, then I was Swiss franc trader, then eventually I was euro trader, then I moved to Japan As interest rates traders, we make loans, we borrow in money, we try to A lot of people do that by What I tried to do, and what is I did that by trying to So in 2011, by the time I become Citibank for some reason where they wanted to become the terms of volumes traded. And because we're doing one-day Because if you borrow money for a day, you have to come back every day. It's stupid, but it looks And it meant that senior to do as much trades as I could. So I was probably lending and borrowing between currencies, probably not far off a trillion of currencies, which was ridiculous. But it's what I've been asked to do. I was in a situation where I was trying to get fired. I was a very successful trader, and I quit when I was like 27, I think. I was just so in the I was quite dehumanized in a way. I'd done it to myself, you know? But I mean, how do I balance but also like being a human and also fulfilling my responsibility through a collapsing society? The traders don't think it's their job, because they're trying to The politicians are The academics are trying The guys in media are trying to get clicks and get views and, you know. Actually, nobody's trying to fix it. My big success was in 2011, and that came from this realization that the economy was that we had a growing crisis of inequality that wouldn't be resolved, that the rich would get people would get poorer, living standards would And I put that bet on. I never really stopped to Because my job was to bet on these things. You know, if your job is think is it going to be strong, That's what you do. You know what I mean? And by the end of that year, 2011, I've become Citibank's most world by this bet that And everybody could Nobody turned around and said, There's not like a bell where I think it's worth realizing, right? The best-paid 10,000 economists in the world are all traders. Towards the end of my career, and I tell my boss I want to leave. And my boss takes me out for this dinner, and he told me a story about a trader, a young trader at Deutsche good trader, wanted to leave. The only problem is Deutsche to leave, you know, so they looked through some of his past trades and his emails, you know. There wasn't really anything in there, but there was enough, you know. You know what I mean? Enough to take him to court. And he rolled through and eventually the guy was bankrupted. And then he literally said to me, you know, &quot;I like you, I think you're a good person, but sometimes bad things We can make life very difficult for you. You're going to find out about that.&quot; It's so obviously similar to the way that, like, gangsters speak. That's exactly the same kind of person that goes into drug dealing, exactly the same kind of person. And I can't help but think that a lot of the guys who become traders, if they grew up on the would've been drug dealers. And a lot of the kids if they went to the same and if they went to LSE, Really. Because it's the exact I come from a very poor background, and the people are being hurt by what has happened in that are exactly like me when I was a kid and people that are exactly and like my sister and like But it was really a long time before I ever started to explicitly think, should we do anything about this? And by then, I've been kind and my junior was this very, very wealthy, but very And I said to him, &quot;You know, do you think And he was like, &quot;About what?&quot; And I was like, &quot;You know, about like a collapsing global economy.&quot; And he was like, &quot;Yeah, We bought the green euro dollars.&quot; And I was like, &quot;Well, yeah, yes, but, you know, do you think And he was like, &quot;I don't You don't go into trading but you kind of assume that there are people whose job it You know, like politicians most obviously, economists at universities, economists at central banks, like the Fed, like the Bank of England, economists in the media. You kind of think these guys, their job is to look after it. But what was becoming well, our job is not to fix it. Those guys whose job is to fix it, they're definitely not going to fix it. Like, I want to leave And the banks are just, you know, the senior management implying, &quot;Well, we're going to sue you.&quot; And at that point, they They're just going to we're going to sue you.&quot; And I think, to be honest, and probably high levels of that's how it works. Like the law is an arm of power. Like, they're like, we're going to find a way to sue you.&quot; And I think that is kind of how it works. So I suspect that a lot of the by banks are not the They're the people who So I get 18 months like like studying Japanese They make me sit in the corner. So I'm just sitting in the studying Japanese and drawing pictures of the Beatles and stuff. In a way it was nice, it was nice, because it gave me a think about what I was doing. You know, I played that despite the fact that I was in terrible mental health condition at the time. And I got them into a first of all, I think they thought, because I was kind of of a rough background I think they thought that they'd find some dodgy s--- in there. But really, I was just collapsing every single year. That's what I was f---ing doing. And in the end, two things which is I start sending to like the CEO and the global head of HR. And one guy got fired, So I didn't really know whether it was because I started getting or if it was because this guy got fired. And I'll never know which But eventually, I got and not stuck in a skyscraper. It's all a big game. It's all a big game. It's all a big power game. And like, you can kind of get as long as it's not in the You know, and it's this is the world that where if you're very, very you can get away with a f---ing lot. I don't hate rich people. I am a rich people. I don't blame rich people. I'm an economist that by predicting the f---ing future and I've got a f---ing good track record. These guys will get richer and richer, and they will eat the middle class alive. And it's not because because they're evil, it's because that's what If you are a guy who's worth $100 million, you're going to make $5 and you are going to use that ordinary families, kids need. That is the direction of travel. That is we're heading up. We will lose the middle class. There's obviously that one couple of guys make a lot of collapse of the American economy. And they're going to make a ton of money, and they're really like, and they're dancing, and turns around and he's like, And they're like, &quot;Why? We just made a load of money.&quot; He's like, &quot;You made money betting on the collapse of the economy. You know what that means? That means people losing their homes, that means people committing suicide, that means families breaking down.&quot; And obviously, for me, as someone like, you feel that. My free market rate is $2 million a year. For three years, I was out for free, telling people exactly what was going to happen in COVID. You can go back and my early articles in Everything I said was going Nobody's f---ing listening. It was hard. It was hard, because you're I was trading nearly a you know what I mean? And you're used to getting and bam, bam, bam, bam, bam, smashing all that money through. And I would wake up in the morning and you just have this like You know, of course I but then once you quit, your I just had this really being unproductive, And I went to like, I went to and then she gave me to fill in, put in everything And she looked at it and she was like, you're really, really f---ing busy. But I'd become so used to where you just feel like you have to be 100% all of the time, that anything other than like working 120% felt like doing nothing to me. In the beginning of COVID, I picked up trading again, because there was a lot So I still do do a bit of trading. It just sits in investments, you know. Obviously, I quit my job, it's educational work, trying to explain to people I don't get paid a lot of money for it. You know, in fact, very often, I get paid no money for it. So it funds my work, it funds my life. Hopefully one day in the have a family with a bit You know, who reads articles in Rich people, basically. And I want to talk to all the new people. So I moved to YouTube, made a load of videos, but of course, nobody was watching them. And you know, I've got a degree from LSE, I've got a degree from Oxford, I'm a multimillionaire, a I put videos out about &quot;Who the f--- is this guy? He's not an economist.&quot; You know what I mean? Somebody called me up and, You've thought about writing a book?&quot; And I was like, &quot;No, not really.&quot; But then I thought, you know, if I could use this story, this f---ing good story, you know. Expelled from school, top trader the world by betting you know, bank tries to It's a good story. I thought, if I could then hopefully you'll know that this is going to go down the toilet. And if enough people know I'm not allowed to answer Legal reasons, I'd love to tell Yeah, yeah. It's quite bizarre. You might think I'd be able to say, I did sign an NDA, but I But unfortunately, I I signed an NDA or not. I'm a producer on Authorized Account. If you enjoyed this, please subscribe and comment below with to see us cover.