I already have a Yeah, it's on his ass. This is war! Real war! We went to a-- Mitski concert together. Yeah, in New York. The one-- what was the The Beacon. She did this thing-- she that stuck with me since, where So it was just her alone-- as if she was Was that from "My Love [Mine All Mine]"? Yeah. Oof, devastating. It was amazing. Devastating. Yeah. I build a playlist and it's something that it kind of becomes Like, I'll just listen to it And then yeah, to kind of get into the inner and it's super enjoyable. Same there. But what was interesting about for me was building-- because of working with Joe In certain ways, we're like a double act. And so I always build a and for the character. But this was the and I started trading songs. Right. And it became this and figuring out we were about certain things. So that-- that was "No Church in the Wild." You don't mind this-- No. Like, that was me and of the other gang who, celebrate the end of And Nicki, my driver in like, that song would feature heavily on a Friday night. So when we saw it I thought we had been spied on. Yeah, it was so wild. Because we never shared Yeah, never. Like, there was about how we were listening And then when it was it was this amazing and Yeah, yeah. I remember the phone call. Yeah. "You're not going to believe Yeah, yeah. [Producer] 'Watch the Throne' [by Jay Z and Kanye West] than like, even though I would But-- Yeah, I don't go down well with the boys, But-- I would love to see Mitski Yeah, yeah, 100%. It's true. MTV, yes, it's true. And it's also true is a 'Beavis &amp; Butthead' fan. Yeah. He loves 'Beavis &amp; Butthead.' Yeah. Joe and I talked with and Sid Vicious, talk about 'Beavis &amp; Butthead.' And sometimes when we I would look at Ridley and the laugh, you know, So that was really fun. I would love-- I would love to see that. Yeah, yeah. Right. That's something is happening in your life. Yeah. You're doing the laugh with Ridley Scott. With Ridley Scott, Yeah. [Producer] I was out that you were in the Oh, yes. Yeah, absolutely. Yeah. 'Phantom' choreography, I was so it was a lot I was taking the Didn't really have a So I'm going to have to safely in this was more-- more difficult. I have to see this. No, you don't have to see it. I'm going to-- I'm going to do some internet Yeah, yeah, yeah, it's there. I love that film. It's here. And do I want-- I don't want to talk But I can say that I And, yeah. I love 'Eternal Sunshine,' but I'm going to get my Yeah, yeah. As well as a 'Gladiator' tattoo. And a Joe Quinn tattoo. Yeah, Joe Quinn, of course. I already have a Yeah, it's on his ass. I got in trouble, because was my favorite ever. And I would, like, You know, the "You "Funny like a clown?&quot; Yeah. And I did it in In trouble. Yeah, I got in Because I thought, like, So it's fine, because I'm You're just copying. It's not you. But the principal didn't that concept. They didn't know Exactly. Yeah, yeah. I loved Indiana I think, like, I was like, I wanted-- my bigger fan of Indiana Jones. But, yeah, I just found and he's so brilliant in them. I think that's my most Yeah, it's a great one. Because I have-- I have that hat, and it What do you use for the whip? At one point I used-- I think I borrowed one and fashion it. And I use that. But I think at one point I the costume department. That's the kind of Yeah. for Halloween costumes. Yeah, I know. Yeah. Like, it's-- And you don't actually need You don't need And yeah. I love Indy. Putting on Maximus's armor. Pretty, yeah, big moment. But also just sort of like-- have at the end of the Pedro [Pascal] but I was always It's-- it's a weird thing, something grabs your and it's like, yeah. And the scale of Ridley's films live up to it. Because the imagination that he delivers for you on the day, Yeah, I would say, I worked in movies, I-- I remember reading this idea of the scene. And then you arrive but it's quite And you're like, "Oh-- "this was near an ocean." And it's like, "Yeah, well, "to have that in post whatever." We're going to shoot Yeah-- and you just, And then you do a Ridley Scott You're like "Oh, my god, "is all around me right now." Like, everything is in 360. Yeah. So I felt like it It's just a mad really wrapped my head around. Because I think we've And I think when you watch put a lot of care into it, but also when there's a legacy it magnifies the first in a way that is just So I think when I watch I think we're going Yeah. I'll be able to give you [Producer] So you weren't in the mirror in 'Taxi repeating the line over No, I think that would to be honest. It'd be like, "Well, I can't Strength and honor. Yeah, strength-- Nope. Strength and honor. We have changed the way media, TV shows, all of that. But I'm yet to be comes into any to going into a room Especially for a film dialed up to 100, the the scale being huge. It's 2.5 hours of your life. And it's not just It's like, this is This is my favorite This is when all of are coming out, all the and watching films like this. But anything, like, I saw full of people. And I was just like, this is-- and yet, there's to really do the film it on the big screen. 100%. That's how-- I think is the experience of being and feeling the kind to react to what's happening I really do think of community in that that's And I also think it's freeing. I think it's-- you know, art goes to places and scary and liberating and And you have a kind of safety when you're with with storytelling in that way. So I agree with you. Like, this-- that-- see it on Yeah. With the most people And-- Like, see it at Yes. Go for dinner beforehand, and just go f**king nuts. Yeah. I think that's-- if could dream up a way