Help, please, help my child , please, please , please, please save my child, please , please, please save my child, my child is innocent , please, please, please, please , please, please, please save my child , please save my child, what are you doing? Please, please, please save my child. My child is innocent. Please save him. Princess , please save my child. Don't let anyone kill him. This noble man, can you please do something good? Save this. Madam, she is innocent. She is quite pitiful. She was abandoned by her husband when she was young. Her children are gone and her face has been ruined. I beg you, Xiao Sha, please save him. Princess , please save my child. Thank you, sir. No need for me. I'm just in a hurry and don't want anyone to block my way. Save my child. Don't let people kill him. Don't let people kill my son. Thank you, noble man. Thank you, noble man. Let's go. Your Highness has your order. King Li is a traitor and rebellious minister. His mansion has been raided. No Your Highness. The order instructs no one to enter. You have clearly seen that this is the carriage of the general's palace. You dare to stop it. If you don't want to die, just get out of the way. Don't force me to kill. Atractylodes is bitter and warms the spleen and dries dampness. Diyu is cold and the blood is hot. It can be used to leak reed. Cold, nourishing blood, draining pus, promoting muscle growth, Ke'er, brother , princess and sister , what's wrong with your hair ? Could it be that the poison in the body is acting up again ? Don't worry, it's not that reason . That's why. I was fine when I left. Why did it suddenly become like this? Ke'er . So many things have happened in a while that I can't explain them in one sentence or two. I 'll tell you slowly later. Ke'er, I came to see you today just to see if you were okay. Seeing you okay makes me feel at ease. Suddenly there are so many things in my house. There are some guards here, all of them are fierce , but I am too lazy to go out to the pharmacy, and I am not afraid. Prince Li's Mansion is not a place to stay for a long time. Your brother and I came here just to pick you up. It is rare that Prince Li's Mansion is so quiet. I want to study the prescription left by the master. Help Princess Sister find a cure as soon as possible. But Princess Sister, that's the antidote I've been researching these days. It can temporarily relieve your condition and I'll help you take your pulse . I've been in a trance lately and can't sleep well. Can you help me? Get some soothing and replenishing medicine. Ke'er understands. Let's go back first. Miss Xiao Ke is someone I value. If anyone dares to embarrass her or make her even the slightest bit wrong here, Wu Xiangzi, don't blame me for being ruthless. Is that all, subordinate ? I don't dare to hide anything. Yi Rong Le's temperament shouldn't give in so easily. Think carefully about whether there is any abnormal contact between them . Madam, every move she made during this trip was under the close supervision of her subordinates and was not discovered. That's good . How is the investigation on Yuxi? The people sent by the subordinates have searched everywhere they can. There is no whereabouts yet. The capital is so big. I don't believe that this thing can grow wings and fly . Is it an attribute? Next, I will continue to look for Madam's injury . Is it feeling better? According to the report from the servant who took care of Madam, the wound on Madam's hand seems to be more serious than the previous two days . What's going on ? Didn't the imperial doctor see the wound ? The general's wife practices swordplay in Qingmi Garden every night. The situation got serious and the doctor warned her over and over again, but she didn't listen. I have found the other crazy woman who was pestering my wife and brought her to the palace for careful interrogation. This woman talked crazy and kept talking about her son, saying that her son was crazy. If you are a woman, please don't report it to me. From now on, if you have such a matter, you can deal with it yourself . A secret message came from the south. If General Fu still remembers the deal with the old minister, please treat the old minister's daughter well. Otherwise, don't blame the old minister for turning his back on me. When do you plan to take me there? I won't feel at ease if I can't see him. No matter how nice you are to me, I won't appreciate it . Fu Zhao, if you still want me to stay in the house, you'd better not abuse him. Rongle , should I treat him better ? Will you stay with me forever? As long as you stay by my side and Zongzheng Wuyou leaves Beilin, I promise you to let him go and wipe out all the previous grievances . Can you really do it? You put me under house arrest in your house. If you can let him go, I won't put you under house arrest. I'm just afraid that you will encounter more dangers after you go out. Well, I promise you that from today on , you can go wherever you want. I will give you orders, but you also have to promise me one thing when you go out. Bring more people, safety first. Now that you have obtained the throne, why can't you be more tolerant to him? It's not that I don't tolerate him, it's that Zongzheng Wuyou and I can't coexist at all. Rongle, you think so. If he is the winner today, what do you think? Will he let me go? It 's only a matter of time for him to make a comeback with his own ability, so he must leave Beilin. Otherwise, the country will be unstable , people will be uneasy, and the world will never have peace. Just leave . I don't want to hear what you say. . Now that I have avenged my great revenge, it seems that I have everything. But what 's the point? I don't know how you are doing now. Don't rob me. Let go of my child, you crazy bitch. Don't take my bit. Do n't let go. It's mine. Don't let go of my child. Don't let it go. Don't hurt it, you crazy bitch . The rain is getting heavier on us. Let's go and let this crazy woman fend for herself. You have no son for a long time. Your son is dead. My son, don't hurt him. My child, do n't take my chip. Do n't kill him. Don't kill him . He is innocent. My child is innocent . Please don't kill him. Mother , I am a child. No, no, I don't know you. I am a child. Who are you? Mother , mother, you are not dead. If I knew that you were not dead, it would not be the same. I won't be like this today . Fu Zhao won't be fine. Just come back. Just come back. Mom, don't worry. I won't let anyone hurt you again. Don't be afraid. It won't happen. Thank you, God. Thank you, Mom. Now except Mom. There is nothing else left . Can you please give me a hug? Please see the Queen. You are exempt from the gift. Thank you , Your Majesty. The great general of the country, Fu Zhao, has listened to the order. I have received the order. Your Majesty passed away according to the Queen's order . The whole world is in mourning . The country cannot live without the king's talisman for a day. The Queen's son, Fu Chou, who is of His Majesty's blood, was framed by a traitor and had been exiled for many years. He was protected by the gods and returned to the royal family. He recognized his ancestors and returned to his clan. His identity as the eldest son of the royal family was changed to Zongzheng Wucai. He inherited the destiny of God and ascended the throne. The queen's mother-in - law , Yang Wei, thought that General Fu recognized his ancestors and returned. Zong is a royal family matter, and it is also a state affairs in the north. The Queen has an edict to confer General Fu as the crown prince on behalf of your majesty. I have nothing to say. However, when the prince ascends the throne and becomes emperor , he must appeal to the ancestral temple to reach the people. Now, General Fu has neither an imperial edict nor a jade seal . I'm afraid it's hard to convince the public if the sentiments are not in line with reason . Yeah, what do you think? I don't know what the Ministry of Rites has to say. I always thought that General Fu understood justice well and won the hearts of the people. Power cannot control the general. If the general can serve as regent as the prince, he can pacify the country and provide comfort to the people. When the chaos is over and the world is unified, he will be able to convince the people, and then the queen will offer sacrifices to the Ancestral Temple and ascend the throne as emperor. If the general insists on abolishing the rituals and acting independently, if your majesty still has many heirs behind you , I am afraid that the people of the world will not be sure that they will turn to the Ming Lord. Wuzui has benefited from this. From today on , I will govern the country as regent without calling myself the prince or ascending the dragon throne . Zongzheng Wuyou has betrayed Zhongshan. He has gathered troops in the southern border and respects himself. I, Zongzheng Wuzui, swear here to kill the rebellious officials and traitors. The day when we take back the territory in the south will be the day when I, worthy of my ancestors, ascend the throne to the north. A gentleman's promise is worth more than a thousand pieces of gold. Remember what General Fu said today. I sincerely never abandon it . If you violate this oath , I will be punished by heaven and earth. I, Yang Wei, see the regent, His Royal Highness, a thousand years old. Her Royal Highness the Regent, the thousand-year-old Empress Dowager, is still unwilling to return to the Nuan Pavilion in the harem to recuperate Still insisting on living in the cold palace, Senyan Palace was persuaded many times by her subordinates , but the Queen Mother was unwilling to leave , so her subordinates had to order people to try their best to renovate Senyan Palace. Is there any news from the southern border? The southern border has been implementing the New Deal in the past year. It was effective . It was only with the help of Concubine Yun that Qin Yong was able to carry out the popular reform law. After the restoration of the country in the north, we soon became strong in military and people, and became the overlord of the country. But Qin Yong, who does not understand current affairs, made the popular reform law end in vain. King This new policy was implemented by King Li and the princess together. Does she have any other news? Qingzhou sent a secret report saying that there are some rumors in the market. The rumors say that there is a white-haired demon or something, and the white-haired demon is targeting that person. Some people also say that this princess is the wife of a general in the North. She did not keep her chastity and eloped with King Li to the South. This rumor has caused a storm in the South. Orders were sent to find out the source of the rumor. It is because my subordinates knew that they would accompany me to Senyan Palace, right ? Queen mother, your son, and your son , I pay my respects to my queen , my son, you are finally back . Queen mother, my son has been away in the army for more than a year, and I cannot be by your side to take care of you. Don't blame me, my son. Look, you have been separated from your mother for so long, and you still have children with her. How can there be a separation ? You have the country in your heart and the righteous mother-in-law is so happy. How can I blame you? My mother has bought food and is ready. Come and have a meal . The mother-in-law invites me. I remember when I was young, my mother was always serious, distant, cold, and never accompanied me. After eating, actually, after thinking about it, I realized that you left all those delicious meals to me and hid aside to eat the leftovers. It's a pity. Now I still can't invite you to the banquet. But the mother is worried that she won't live in a few days. My son will be for you. We will hold a canonization ceremony to welcome you. The court still blames me for this madness. Fortunately, I have recovered and I won't be too much of a drag on you. Mother, what are you saying? You and I, mother and son, are reunited in life and death. I will do my best to fulfill my responsibilities. You will go there this year. Why haven't you returned to Zhongshan ? Do you know how worried your mother is about you? My son knows that this year I went all the way north to take back all the land that Wei Kingdom had plundered the previous year . Why don't you go south? Why don't you go south? The queen said. Is it the southern border? As for the southern border, it is the army organized by Zongzheng Wuyou. Its combat power cannot be underestimated. I once sent some elite troops to the southern border, but they were all wiped out. I think I must not act rashly before I know the enemy. Just wait and see what happens. If I were you, I would send a large army to capture the Queen Mother in one fell swoop while they were still young. Just listen to what a woman says . The Queen Mother is also worried about state affairs. I understand this and come to serve you a drink. Bitch, I want you to die, queen, I want you to die, I want to burn you to death, look at the scars on your face , I will burn you to death, queen, spare your life, queen , queen, burn your mother, queen, spare your life , burn you to death, burn your mother, queen, don't be stunned. Quickly help her down , hurry up, hurry up, it's okay, Queen Mother, it's okay . Come on, let them stop . Queen Mother, don't burn me . Come on, let them stop. Queen Mother, don't burn me. Don't hit me. Now in the palace, it's the sons and ministers who have the final say. No one dares. I'm not afraid of hurting you . Okay, okay, don't hit me. Okay, please help me . Whose life can I save now ? Your Majesty, the regent is back. Your Majesty has always treated you with great respect . If you beg him, you might be able to help me. Which Lan'er can save Lan'er's life ? Lan'er is the slave's biological sister. Lan'er also served you before. Before she was transferred to Senyan Palace to serve the empress , but the slave has not been able to find her these days. The slave finally found out about the regent. On the day when she came back, Lan'er accidentally spilled tea on Empress He, and Empress He kicked and beat her. Later, Lan'er disappeared. If we want to save Lan'er's life, I'm afraid I have to come forward, Empress Nu Ting Palace. People say that the regent is going to request that the empress be canonized as the queen mother. What is the queen mother ? You said that you want to make her the queen mother ? The king said that her madness is cured. If her madness is cured , has she remembered all the past things ? She wants to be the queen mother. The Queen Mother, I am the Queen. If I occupy her position , she will definitely not let my empress go. No matter what you say, she is still the First Queen. A woman who is just crazy and ill will not threaten you . There is also the Regent, Your Majesty. Haven't I always respected you? You girls , what do you know ? Mother, do you know what kind of person a mandarin is? She is from hell, just like a devil . Mother, she is here to claim her life. What's wrong with you? Mother, she is here to claim all of us. The empress of human life, please go out to me. Please save me. I have endured all these years without fighting or snatching anything, just to protect myself. I dedicated my whole life to this deep palace and to Your Majesty. But now His Majesty is dead and the prince is dead. Wuyou is gone. Everything I could rely on before can no longer be relied on and is destroyed. Now He Yuan is back. She is back. She will never let me go. She will definitely make my life worse than death. Why am I the same as Sister Yun? We have never harmed each other. other people I wholeheartedly worship the Buddha. Why did you do this to me? Why did you let me end up like this ? Why is it unfair to me? How could the good empress pass away? There are rumors in the harem that the empress did not die of illness but was sent by a maid who hanged herself . What I discovered during dinner was that it was impossible for our late queen, who came from a noble family, to be smart, prudent and sensible. Even the regent was polite to her. How could she commit suicide? Yes, the king is blessed. See , the king is safe. Thank you . Your Majesty, all of you here are the pillars of the imperial court. I have invited all of you to come here just for one thing. That is to confer the title of Queen Mother to return the gold book and seal to the Empress Dowager to welcome her back to the ancestral temple. As for the details of the matter, I still need to discuss it with all of you. Make a decision, sir. Do you have any objections? Your Majesty, the Queen, was in the harem just yesterday, and now you are eager to establish a new Queen Mother for fear of being wrong . What is wrong? The body of the Queen is still cold, and the truth is not yet known . The Queen missed the Emperor, so she became seriously ill and died in tears . Now that the late empress has followed the late emperor underground, is there any truth that remains unknown ? My king, please rest assured. I will take care of the former queen's affairs. You don't need to worry about me. Your Majesty, I have a script to announce the canonization of the queen mother . Sheji also asks the king to think twice about your impudence. Mrs. Fu is the biological mother of this king, and she was the empress of the previous dynasty. How can she be nameless and unknown ? Do you have any objections? Empress Fu died more than ten years ago. The origins of the people in the harem are unclear. Chu has no basis and evidence. How can she be the mother of the world and how can she make all people surrender? Yang Wei, you have served the late emperor for many years . Don't you really know Queen Fu Yuan? Your Majesty , since I have served the late emperor, I naturally know the queen. She has the moral virtue of being a mother, and all the ministers in the world know it well , so no matter whether she is the Queen of He or not, the ministers will never allow her to be the queen mother. Yang Wei, Yang Wei, how dare you do the following ? I think you, the Minister of Rites, are tired of being an old minister , even if you don't As the Minister of Rites, I will never recognize her as the Queen Mother . Yang Wei , you are a veteran of the previous dynasty and have been an official for decades. Everyone here should know better than anyone else . In the past, you questioned my identity in this place . Now you want to repeat the same mistake. Your Majesty, you have accomplished great things by expelling the foreign invaders and stabilizing the internal affairs. If Your Majesty, you appoint Yuan as the Queen Mother, I am afraid that in the future, I will disturb the imperial court and harm the people. The achievements that the king has done before will be revealed. How can a weak woman after my mother jeopardize the imperial palace? What is the southern border and the northern border? They all want to demote a weak woman to such an unworthy state and casually accuse her of harming the country. The Queen Mother Feng Zun is allowed to be disputed by others. Come on, my lords , who else wants to change the king 's mind and appoint the Queen Mother? This matter is an internal responsibility of my Ministry of Etiquette and has nothing to do with all the adults present. If the king insists on appointing Yuan as the Queen Mother, I am willing to accept the crime of disrespect and report to the old man and return home. In the future, I will ask the King to find someone else to do it for Mr. Yang and canonize the Queen Mother. Let's discuss the matter at another date. Your Majesty, according to the ancestral system, the late Queen should be buried with the late Emperor. However, she has not yet had the title of Queen Mother . I don't know what the specifications of the funeral will be . How do I understand these red tapes? By the way, remember not to let anyone see it. The late queen's grooming subordinates understand that you said you were a good person, why did you hang yourself from the beam? By the way, don't tell the queen about this matter and cause her trouble. Recently, her illness has improved a little. The queen mother has come to see her mother. Do you want to raise her child ? Take good care of yourself. Your health is important. Thank you, Queen Mother, for caring about your children . Please remember , Queen Mother. Why are there so many discounts? This Yang Wei, he abandoned his official position. After abandoning his official position, some ministers from the Ministry of Rites in the imperial court also resigned together, so there were more things to do to raise children and Queen Mother. I won't blame him for Mr. Yang's matter, because he is just worried about the country . If you still want to ask him to return to Beijing to become a working mother, I won't mind. I still know Yang Wei. With his temperament, since he If he leaves, he will not come back. Do you really not mind that your mother has repeatedly postponed your canonization ceremony ? You have said it many times. I know that the situation has forced you to have no choice. Thank you, mother, for understanding that some people do not understand current affairs. If you want to leave, just let them go. You don't have to worry about it. You don't know anything until now. The reason why the civil and military officials in this court stay here is not because they sincerely surrender to my country and the country in the north. After the canonization of the Queen Mother, After that, I finally saw clearly that even though I was in Beilin , these civil and military officials were not convinced by me. Even though I had an armored army to force me, I still couldn't suppress the arrogance in their hearts. That's because you didn't force me hard enough. As a human king, your heart is too soft, mother. After all, this force is the last resort. Although I dare not say that I will become a holy king, I also do not want to be a tyrant. As expected, the princess will not leave. It is expected that the general sent Chang Jian and others to track down the crazy woman they just met on the street. The general also immediately sent people to investigate Fu Zhao. He is suspicious and will never let me leave the house easily. My every move outside the house cannot escape him. The eyeliner saw the princess. When I came back, I saw the guards in the palace acting in a hurry. What happened? The general sent people to look for the imperial seal. They searched the entire palace and searched the residences of some important royal officials, but nothing was found. The general was so angry that the prince also went to war in vain , Your Majesty, I want to take you out of here. Siyun Siyunling, senior brother Yu Wuyou , here is Xiao Ke's carefully crafted secret ointment, which will be of great benefit to the recovery of your physical injuries . She How's it going ? Don't worry, no one is worse than you. Brother, how are things arranged? Wu Yu is gathering people and horses to evacuate. The manpower is ready , just waiting for you to leave from here. But now Fu Zhao has sent heavy troops to surround the palace. Now this Senyan The palace is also a master, Ruyun. If I don't have Fu Zhao's token, I will inevitably fight to save you. You are so seriously injured now. If you take a detour through the mountain road, which is time-consuming and laborious, you will be chased. Only with the token can you follow the path directly to the official road. The whole road is smooth. Did Mantian put herself in danger to steal Fu Zhao's token? She borrowed rumors from Xiao Ke and agreed to get the token three days later and meet us at night . Wuyou is not an ordinary woman. She thinks everything carefully and must be completely sure. So don't worry. I will send someone to secretly protect her senior brother. Be sure to protect her. Don't worry. I know it well. Yali, you are guarding the empress outside the palace. Yali, empress , you have been suffering these past few days. I really didn't expect Fu Zhao to be such a person . Wuyou has been ruined and his life and death are uncertain . I heard that he openly said that he wanted to marry you , but he kept you under house arrest . Mother, please save me . I don't want to be trapped here for the rest of my life , let alone be used by Fu Zhao. The only one who can save Ya in this palace is Ya. The only one I have is you, Yali, I have no children, and you are the one who comes to see me on weekdays. I have long regarded you as my own . I have left the past . In order to have something to rely on for the rest of my life , I insist on letting you marry Wuyou . However, I am also thinking about you. I really don't understand what you are thinking. I am ashamed that you are not the empress Yali who is not sensible. If I had listened to the empress's advice and treated His Highness Li sincerely, it would be better to suffer with His Highness Li now than to be Fu Fu. I know how to deceive and use you . It's all over. Don't be afraid. I have a way to get out of the palace. Guards outside the palace . I have sent people to lure you away. Now hurry up and leave here. The guards at the south gate are also mine. You should hurry up and leave this palace through the south gate. That empress. What about you, please run away with me. No, I can't leave . You're still young. Everything can start all over again. And as for me, my best years have been dedicated to this deep palace. Here are all my memories. I can't leave you anymore. Let's go. Come on, Yali, I will never forget your great kindness. Please take good care of it. Come on, take care of yourself. Come on , my lady, come on. Come on, Yali. We can't see each other again in this life. We must be safe and happy for the rest of our lives . If there is a voice over there, go and see. Let 's go. Get you some water. Why are you doing this to me? Do you know how much courage it takes to choose to believe someone who uses me to hurt me? Do you know that I almost fell in love with you? What did you say? What do you say now? It's too late. It 's you who betrayed my trust . It's you who pushed me to others in your own way. You used your actions to teach me a lesson more cruel than death. I never say the word hate easily , but today I want to I give you this word . It's too late to say anything now. Rongle, if you are still willing to give me another chance, I can let Zongzheng Wuyou go. If you want him to go to the Southern Territory , I can give him the entire Southern Territory. I promise you from now on. I will never use you or hurt you again . I will love you well and live a good life with you. Zongzheng is worry-free and worry-free. It was you who locked him up. I want to find him . I want to find him now. Rongle, Rongle, I am step by step. Give in, why are you still thinking about him ? I'm right in front of you. You can't see me . In your heart, there is only Zongzheng Wuyou. Why do you never forget him? Rongle , you are plotting against me, you and I. I know you are suspicious by nature and will not be fooled easily, so I sprinkled non-toxic and tasteless medicine powder on your strings in advance so that you wouldn't notice it. But once that medicine comes into contact with my blood, it will become the most poisonous drug. Fu Zhao, seeing that you do have some affection for me, I won't hurt you. In your life, I only love Wuyou, but I have to thank you for your gift . You made me truly understand who in this world is the one who treats me sincerely. Why are you so miserable ? No more involvement . Let me out. Let me go. Let me out. Are you brave ? Are you a human or a ghost? You speak. Father, it turns out you are not dead . My son thought that Father , please beat me. Father, please scold me. Father, you are scolding me. Father, why are you like this? Father , son, I will take you away. Son, I will take you away. You guys, please let me go. Father, father, son, I am unfilial. Father, son, minister is unfilial. I 'm stupid , I shouldn't believe that that treacherous villain Fu Zhao has made my father look like this. Father, my father, it turns out that Fu Zhao is the son of the late empress, so he deliberately did this because he wants to take revenge. Father, we What should we do? The father, the emperor, and the ministers know that the father's appearance is the most important thing. The sons, ministers , should help the father to take care of things. Don't let the father lose his dignity . The father, the emperor, and the ministers know that the only thing in the father's heart is worry-free . The sons, ministers, also want to be loved by the father. The son-chen did all this to prove to his father that he was worthy , but the son-chen actually harmed the father. The father-huang, the son-chen is willing to kneel down and beg Fu Zhou to exchange his life for his life to keep the father-huang safe . To keep the father-huang fine, the father-huang, son-chen, died. It's not a pity that as long as my father still cares about his son, my son and I will not do anything. He wants to know that my father is wrong . Who is the father ? The general ordered me to transfer the rebels to the prison of the Ministry of Justice. Such a secret order should not be passed down by Master Chang, the chief guard next to General Fu. The general just ordered me to carry out an emergency mission and must transfer the suspect within an hour. You are not General Fu's person . Sir , you have good eyesight. I used to be the princess's person , but now the whole Beilin is dominated by General Fu. Of course I am a person who understands current affairs. I followed General Fu because of Junjie , but General Fu also trusted me, so he was relieved to hand over the token to me. Please take care of me . The prison van of the Ministry of Punishments is parked outside the cold palace gate. There will be fake ones. If there are still If you are suspicious , you can go to the Ministry of Justice and ask General Fu. However, you missed the time and let General Fu know that his token will not work for you two. I don't know how you will explain it. Since it is General Fu's token, if you see the token, open the door quickly if you see the person. The poster has taken care of everything outside. The general immediately entered the palace and saw Zongzheng Wuyou . He was killed without hesitation