So you got Your DNA results. And You open And a lot of it is probably exactly Maybe You're mostly European/ maybe You're mostly of cases, You might see that, hey, there's one that is something You weren't expecting- Ashkenazi any number of things can You determine how far Howdy, welcome to Family History Fanatics, where have fun along the way. We'll always say that most lot to do with genetic genealogy. I've said before don't have a lot to do about genetic genealogy. a DNA test was because of the ethnicity results. whether or not some of these small percentages sometime in the past. So, hypothetically let's need to go for a certain percentage. Well, on our parents, and that halves again each generation chart and in this chart here. what it's showing back- what percentage of DNA. Which is just So, we start with our parents and grandparents go great-grandparents at eight generations back. And how many years ago that person was the same age You can see by eight generations using most genealogy, You know, that's back to the early that. So, You might be able to find a nice paper But it's unlikely that You're going Your, You know, 7th or 8th or 9th or looking at Your results, You might have 2 percent You might be thinking, okay, if I'm two percent in with about fourth great-grandparents. One we think we got two parents. We've got four 16 second great, 32 third great, 64 fourth great-grandparents might have been Ashkenazi DNA was passed down. And if this was the exact be pretty confident in start searching at that level- Your fourth great-grandparents, to find But there's a problem with this, and that So, let's look at the first problem, and that always exact. Now, we do get 50 of but we don't get 25 of our DNA There's a range that we could get from each of course, is going to add up to 50 percent, but and I might then have 28 from my grandmother but neither one of those is 25. So, that range down even further, we see that that range extends You'll notice that those ranges start to overlap. percent. Well, that's all fourth and fifth, and that's going to include the number six-generation and a half percent. Well, I'm really looking at All could be in that little range. So, for my Ashkenazi Jewish. Well, that two percent could generation. It could be the seventh generation. before, I was saying I need to look at fourth third great-grandparents, of which there's great-grandparents, of which there's 128. And my So, You can see here that just by having these that this one ancestor could be has ballooned into several hundred people. You're going to whether or not one of them was this little bit of with this table. Before we continue, if You are You can help us out. In the description below are free guides. But the most important thing share, and leave a comment. We continue the second problem has to do with this approximate generations. Now, before on my previous table, I Your family is probably not average. Just like that that generation was shorter. Or it may be this approximate Years really could be depending on when You were born. I happen to 26, or so. But I look at our Youngest I think both of us were into our 30s. So, the that is just going to compound itself. had children very young. Or You had a What this does is, as we get down here. Before we we are at 200 Years by the fifth generation. than 200 Years- 240 Years. That's for the united You keep going back to the eighth generation. finding records 200 Years ago is difficult. Add finding records is for that time period. Now, I because of the church records. There's church However, one thing that You'll notice is as those information on them. So, for instance, 320 Years 1600s to the early 1700s, a lot of those records sometimes not even a first name of the mother. And Marriage records, in many cases, wouldn't even So, when we're looking at genealogy and putting much information, even the records that we do these different people. So, that is the second first one is that those percentages are not exact- approximate Years are not exact either they're a research onto a ancestor that is five, six, seven, we have to be worried about is how those ethnicity only just say that we always have to remember from our father, and we have a chromosome from when we test the testing, companies don't know don't know which ones are for the paternal they they're all mixed together. There's sometimes when our maternal. So, let's just say that, hey, if Because of the sequence of each of them, it might than what we had planned. In some cases, it might either one of them is by themselves. So, that's from analyzing this in the first place. Which ethnicity results, many genetic genealogists will out. don't worry about ethnicity percentages below two percent. Because there's these problems order to try to figure out whether that is a falling into one of these categories of problems mean that these small percentages are always not to figure them out. particularly if You don't You don't already have a family tree that is very I wouldn't worry about these small But if You have gotten a very good documented tree fun challenge for You. Now, if You'd like to learn in MyHeritage, it's called Genetic Groups, then to learn something else about DNA, then check