[music playing] I would like to especially welcome our families and our young guests today who are joining We have lined up some exciting events in about punk science team from the London in their own words, &quot;old science&quot; show. Please stay with us and enjoy that show. The end of the meantime, you will find the team is organizing a science and Lego and The Scientific American, and you can go talk to their desk and find out And what more privileged way Richard Dawkins here with us Professor Richard Dawkins was the first holder Understanding of Science at the University He's a fellow member of the Royal Society And he's a prominent scientist and evolutionary and perhaps one of the world's most outspoken He's, of course, the author text, The Selfish Gene, his sensational take The God Delusion, and The Greatest Show on of Charles Darwin's theory of And today he's here to talk with us about which most of you have among in the audience The Magic of Reality: How We Know What's Really And at the end of his speech, Please use the microphone on the floor he's also offered to stay with us and sign It will be on the stage Without any further ado and with great pleasure, Dawkins. [Applause] &gt;&gt;Richard Dawkins: Thank you, Baran, very I am delighted that, of course, in the room, slightly disconcerted as well. My Uncle Bill told me that when he was an the 1930s, it was the custom for Oxford their tutor. And he, one week, had been caught a bit short essay And his tutor listened to his essay for a walked across to a bookshelf, pulled the volume following with his finger. [Laughter] on reading out his essay, book shut and said, &quot;I see you agree with [Laughter] be following what I say in the book, The Magic of Reality, optimal target age that I was aiming at was But I hope, and I think believe, that it can as well they can understand it. And also younger children as well. It's a little bit difficult that I see in the audience today, There are twelve chapters in the book, They're nearly all a scientific question, the sun, what is a rainbow. Every chapter begins with myths from around to the question and then goes on to the meat Which is the scientific answer what really what really is an earthquake, and so on. The title, The Magic of Reality, I need to I see the word magic is used in three different The first kind of magic is fairy tale spells, waving a wand turning into a prince, that kind of thing. Nobody believes in that kind of magic. The second kind of magic is stage magic, conjuring. In America, knows, a trick although it looks like are real magic, And the third kind of magic is the one that and the title of my book, which is the magic When we're moved to tears by a beautiful piece it as magical. Or we look up at the stars, a magical sight. The whole of science, the whole of what science seems to me but fills one with a sense of wonder, a sort can describe as magical. The purpose of my book is to show that reality, science, is magical in this third sense. Now, I said that nobody believes in supernatural turning pumpkins into coaches, and frogs into And I want to make the point, not just that no one has ever actually seen good reasons for saying it will never happen, And it is important to understand that, in that frogs and princes and kangaroos and tigers not come into existence by magic, of They came into existence by evolution. So why is it that things can't magically turn Why can't frogs turn into princes? Why can't pumpkins turn into coaches? Well, the reason is, frogs and princes, and And complicated means statistically improbable. And statistically improbable means that So if you imagine making the task for our little bit easier, pumpkin to start with, a coach. It comes in a box, and she takes all the bits puts them in a great big sack and shakes them, and shakes them for a billion years, and every coach has tumbled out. And of course it won't, not in a trillion Coaches, and princes, and frogs, and us, and are all much too complicated to happen by So how did they happen? Oh, first of all, I should say that in some by chance. If we're playing cards and we deal thirteen as you would in Bridge and imagine that I I pick up my thirteen cards and I gasped in hand of all spades. So I lay down my cards on the table and I I've obviously won this game because I've one by one the other three players the diamonds, somebody's got all the clubs, Well, What are the odds against it? Well, you all have worked out in your head that the odds against that are 536,447,737,765,488,792,839,237,442,000 However the particular deal is no less likely just that we notice, we notice it because You could arbitrarily designate any particular are also that number of By the way, lecture in America, have someone standing at the side of the stage help stealing a look at her while I was doing [laughter] now, occasion to refer I was talking about how moved I was when I and I told as an aside the story that in the misprinted as Large Hard on Collider, and I, again, have to look at this woman and Anyway, as I was saying, in the case of a you can calculate the odds against it. You can't calculate the odds of shaking up of a prince, or shaking up the bits of a frog but it's going to be just as high, just as Probably even more so than getting a perfect So how do princes? The answer is it certainly does not come about process, The key to understanding that is that although involved, of the way. The point is one after the other through an immense amount those tiny steps means that a frog, for example, and then a slightly different kind of frog and a slightly different kind of frog again. Each of those tiny steps is not improbable, like shaking the bits of a frog and getting It's because there are so many steps, it's into gradual steps that it works and that's bacterial ancestor three billion and plant that we see today. Now, ... [pause] I'm now going to take the which is the first of the chapters that follows followed by myths followed by the true scientific And the question of this chapter is who was And, as you know, and a particularly familiar myth is the Hebrew the Jewish myth of Adam and Eve, which has as you know. And just to give you another myth, the myth which is just a quite separate myth. And there are thousands of origin myths They're all colorful, not true. And we're now going to come onto the true The scientific answer. Well, this may surprise you there never was Because every person had to have parents and and they had to have parents, and so on. And the same is true of rabbits and crocodiles Every animal ever born, every creature ever to the same species as its parents and its grandparents. How far back can we take that? Can we take about forever? No, obviously we can't. Um, and this is the main lesson I want to Even though every species ever born is the nevertheless, if you go back a sufficiently to something very different. So let's do a thought experiment. Imagine that you take up, a thought experiment you don't actually do, you just imagine. Imagine that you take a picture of yourself then on top of that, his father, and then and then his father going backwards in time. How far back should we go? Well, I think we should go back 185,000,000 hundred How high would that skyscraper be? It would be more than one hundred eighty New piled on top of each other. So we're going back quite a long way. Obviously that skyscraper would simply fall too high. So let's tip it along a great big long bookshelf. How long would that bookshelf be? About forty So the near end of the bookshelf has a picture picture of your one hundred What did he look like? Was he an old man with wispy hair and side Was he a cave man in a leopard skin? No, forget any such thought. Your one hundred eighty-five million greats looked something like that. Your one hundred eighty-five million greats [laughter] greats grandmother which is just as well. If we now walk along our forty mile long bookshelf, to see how we're going. Every picture shows a creature belonging to on the Yet if you go back sufficiently far, is, who you see there looks pretty much like your fifty thousand greats grandfather looks He would have been perhaps a member of the Erectus, nevertheless. Imagine that we take a time machine and we and we go back in steps of ten thousand years. If every step of ten thousand years, we get and we look around and we see which of our can see. And we take on board one of them, and then and then we open the door, we look again at from that time Well, what we'll notice new people that we see or the new animals are going to be pretty similar to the last that we saw the previous ten thousand year feel like it. And they can probably with several more ten thousand year hops as but there will come a time when they can no So if we go back a million years, then we not interbreed with the people that we Yet all the intermediates could interbreed with the most recently joined party on the Let's now pick out some more distant ones, who lived about six million years ago, However, he wasn't a chimpanzee, he was the He was no more a chimpanzee than we are except he looked a bit more like a chimpanzee than Your one million and a half, sorry, your one greats grandfather, twenty five million years would have looked like a monkey and would modern monkeys. Your seven million greats grandfather would and would have been the common ancestor of Once again, it would not have been a lemur, looked bit more like a lemur than it looks but would be the common ancestor of ourselves Your forty-five million greats grandfather, ago would have been sort of like a shrew actually probably most of the mammals, all Your one hundred and seventy million greats of like a sort of lizard. And would have been the common ancestor of and all the reptiles, including birds, including Your one hundred seventy-five million greats looked a bit like a salamander, the one on the common ancestor of modern salamanders and mammals and birds. And then finally we come back your one hundred and the fish that you've already seen. We can carry on this process, I won't do it, The line of pictures wends its way off into something like I'm now just going to whiz through the chapter to give you a feel Tackle first by giving mythical answers, and the true scientific answer. &quot;Why are there so many different kinds of &quot;What are things made of?&quot; If you, if you take stuff, matter, and cut and smaller, and smaller pieces, you eventually at all. It's about the atomic theory. It's about chemistry. It's about atoms. It's about molecules. &quot;Why do we have night and day? Why do we have winter and summer?&quot; Most people have a pretty good idea of why is spinning on its axis is turned toward the sun at different times. And I think most but actually you'd be surprised how many people is furthest from the sun in its orbit, and its orbit. Nobody in Australia thinks In the course of that chapter, I try to explain opportunity for me with the book, because the app, in addition illustrations, so you can read it like a Kindle And can we turn on this one now, is [pause] So, here's the book, on the app. There are all the chapters you see swinging And then you can choose a particular chapter. We happen to have to have got to &quot;Why do we so I choose do we have night and day?&quot;, and I want to middle. Which is this one. Isaac Newton illustrated the principle of by imagining a cannon, and you see the cannon And Newton imagined firing a cannonball, it will splash into the sea there. If you fire it a bit stronger, it will go A bit stronger stronger still, it will go What it's doing is trying to go in a straight down by gravity. And if you fire it yet stronger still, it altogether. And I'm going to show that here, I hope. Um, so you fire the cannon by pulling back went into orbit. You fire it a bit less strong, it splashes If you fire it very strongly, it goes into space. That one reached escape velocity. The principle is the ball is actually falling the world, because the world is curving away And if it's given sufficient horizontal velocity, falling forever, which is what the moon does, So each chapter in the app has a game of that but the app does have the So if we could go back to the Mac, and I'll So the next chapter is &quot;What is the Sun?&quot; And I think there's another simulation here, There we are, we are zooming away from the to the universe. We're going We're seeing lots of other stars, the sun and we are moving away from sun, away from And now we are coming to our galaxy, We're zooming away, and away, and away from Now there's another galaxy, and now all those to ours, similar to ours. [laughter] That's because there's another chapter which And I'll come to that in a moment. The next chapter &quot;What is a rainbow?&quot; Next chapter is &quot;When and how did everything Which is a very difficult question, a very A to, but it's worth talking about because we understanding the answer to it. The next chapter is the chapter on &quot;Are we And that the very speculative chapter because alone. We don't know if this life elsewhere in the way. Some people think we're literally alone in that there's life, that the universe is teeming And you can argue it both ways learn, it's good to realize that can actually speculate and an informed way possibilities. Next chapter &quot;What is earthquake?&quot; And you know that's all about plate tectonics, &quot;Why do bad things happen?&quot; Um not much different than why does anything think do bad things happen. Other people might say 'why do bad things people' as though there were some rules that people. And the final chapter is &quot;What is a miracle?&quot; but miracles are magic, supernatural magic, magic And there's no reason to believe in any kind So I'm going to read the sort of final bit There are things that not even the best scientists we should block off all involving magic, or the supernatural, Just imagine how a medieval man, even the of his era, would have reacted if he'd seen or sat-map device. He probably would have called them supernatural, far. If you even go back to Sherlock Holmes would have thought, for example, if a murder had been committed in London, York the same day, Because in Victorian times it was literally on the same day. Now, of course, it's commonplace. The eminent science fiction writer, Arthur third law. Any sufficiently advanced The more you think about it, the more you miracle is nonsense. If something happened that appears to be inexplicable two things. Either it really didn't happen, the observer or we've exposed a shortcoming in If present day science encounters an observation then we so that it can provide an explanation. If it requires a radically new kind of that it, sorry, so strange that old scientists at all, that's fine too. It's happened before. But don't ever be lazy enough, defeatists it must be supernatural because I don't understand Or it must be a miracle. Say instead that it's a puzzle, rise to. Whether we rise to the challenge by questioning observation, or by expanding our science in brave response to any such challenge And until we've found a proper answer to the this is something we don't yet understand It's the only honest thing to do. Miracles, magic, and them throughout the book. Everybody likes a good story, and if you read I hope you'll enjoy the myths, with which I hope that you will enjoy the science that I hope you'll agree that the truth has a magic The truth is sense of the word than any myth or made up Science has its own magic, the magic of reality.&quot; Thank you very much. [Applause] &gt;&gt;presenter: You want to answer questions? &gt;&gt;Richard Dawkins: And now I'm very happy There is a microphone there I see is that &gt;&gt;presenter: There is a microphone in the &gt;&gt;Richard Dawkins: If anyone would like to here. &gt;&gt;presenter: Actually can I start with the &gt;&gt;Richard Dawkins:Yeah, mmm. &gt;&gt;presenter: In your book, you often times also ask your readers to Google one of the [laughter] times random information on the Internet. How do you find the impact of the Internet Is it good or bad? &gt;&gt;Richard Dawkins: Well, I'm delighted that And I presume it's gotten its way into the Do people know? I imagine you know that, um, anybody know I mean it ought to. [audience responds] The criterion for getting to be used without explanation. So, as it were, I Googled something, I Googled And it doesn't count if you say 'footnote, But without definition, without attribution then I'm sure it must have done. The web is a superb resource for factual information [laughter] but I think the overall impression that I Before the with somebody, so often it might turn on a and you couldn't actually establish the correct Rather absurdly, I remember after dinner was a dispute about whether New Mexico has else, I don't know, a bottle of wine or something, You can do that now because everybody look it up. So disputes can now be resolved very much than ever before because you can instantly And if you need to look of three because you may hit on a Creationist web site gets a lot of nonsense. [light laughter] But you do have the, the So I think it's overwhelmingly And by the way I'd like to put in a good word of bad press. Somebody what their plan was, that they're going to could edit and was going to be done from thousands [laughter] And yet, my impression is that it overwhelming Whenever I've looked up something I happen little bit about, I've been immensely surprised So I think, um, I think my view of the &gt;&gt;male #1: Professor Dawkins, thank you very your work and as When I was reading The God Delusion, I thought is to spread knowledge. And I was thinking, how can I when I discuss to try to what they believe, if they themselves are or to convert others. Why, what is my justification in trying to of your &gt;&gt;Richard Dawkins: Well, you question implies illusions without disturbing them. You illusions? Um, if it were just that, then I think I would because why make somebody less happy, but you're showing them I mean, to go through your life laboring under your science understands it is a terrible shame. And it's actually positively wicked if you with Bronze Age myths as though they were to the wonders of the truth. And so I wouldn't have any compunction in say to And the answer almost always, if they're religious, because that's what was handed down to me Our family has always believed so and so. Our family Jewish tradition, or the Muslim tradition What a For a start, your tradition is different from and they can't all be right. So that would be one point you could make. You should say evidence is the only good reason believe anything. Bad reasons for believing are tradition, authority, or the That's a terrible reason to believe anything, Or I believe it because of Somebody said I just felt it inside me, I must be true. That's probably the worst reason of all for The only reason to believe anything is evidence we have enormous amounts of evidence. It's not as though we're living in the Middle scarce on the ground. Nowadays we have, we're overflowing with evidence saying. It's such a privilege to be living now when to understand it. It's such a to questions like how big is the universe? How old is the universe? When does How did life give rise to us? Why are we here? These are all fascinating questions, exhilarating and it's our privilege living in the twenty-first And is really a disreputable falsehoods when they could be being exposed &gt;&gt;male #2: Hi Professor Dawkins, I was particularly latest We at Google are running this competition We're encouraging teenagers to come up with inquiry, which advice to the child or the inspiration for their question? How did they find questions in their world? &gt;&gt;Richard Dawkins: Well, I suppose read up look at some scientific findings, to you. There are lots of questions, um, I have lots like answered. And I, whenever I meet a physicist or a chemist So there's a very, Many of which have answers, some of which And that's competition will expose some questions which, And that might actually stimulate scientists be. [clears throat] doesn't already exist in a child? How do we go about doing &gt;&gt;Richard Dawkins: Show them films by David [laughter] I be surprised if that was a problem. If that really is a problem, we're Because, because, give them my book. [clears throat] &gt;&gt;male #2: Thank you. &gt;&gt;Richard Dawkins: Anymore questions? &gt;&gt;male #3:Thank you again, Professor Dawkins. A question about the actual writing of the How did you as you say, at the twelve year olds versus writings which have been pretty much adult &gt;&gt;Richard Dawkins: Right. Pretty much the same, actually. The only thing that I found was that I some, modify my vocabulary a bit. I had to, um, uh, just use, I suppose, a bit Um, I've always liked the idea of extending If I've always felt that the dictionary is if, if you have to, if you're driven to the there are limits to that and so a child should often. Um, and but it is a today who, who are obviously too young and, another time might try to write a book for Um, twelve is really not that different than in comprehension. &gt;&gt;male #3: Did you find it easier or harder &gt;&gt;Richard Dawkins: I found it a little bit Um,yes, and I don't know how well I succeeded. I did try it out on got quite a variety of answers. Some of them said this is too easy, And others didn't. There were some rather curious things. One time, I needed to refer to a soccer ball, an analogy for the sun of the universe. You get a football, and you put it in the and then you walk, I forget how many, twenty it's a peppercorn, the scale. Peppercorn versus football and twenty paces scale, the moon I think is about an inch away, And then the nearest other star, is two thousand miles away. Um, okay, so in order to do that analogy, referred to a soccer ball, and I got complaints, [laughter] if you say football it means something like Um, so I got rather Next question if there is one. [laughter] &gt;&gt;female #1: Hi, I just wondered your opinion I wondered would be the teaching of shells, were you evidence that child is going to encounter that will help a child to make &gt;&gt;Richard Dawkins: Did you say shells? &gt;&gt;Unknown female speaker 1: Yeah. You know you teach shells and then you teach How do you &gt;&gt;Richard Dawkins: You're a teacher? &gt;&gt;female #1: I have been, yes. &gt;&gt;Richard Dawkins: Yes. And what do you teach about shells? &gt;&gt;female #1: I've always said this be an oversimplification will give you a model which will help you make But some teachers They are &gt;&gt;Richard Dawkins: By shells you mean snail &gt;&gt;female #1: [giggles] No. You know, groups of orbitals around a shell, &gt;&gt;Richard Dawkins: Oh, I got it. Okay sorry. &gt;&gt;female #1:I just hated having to teach it but I wondered to teach an oversimplication &gt;&gt;Richard Dawkins: yes , got it. &gt;&gt;female #1: to children with that limited &gt;&gt;Richard Dawkins: I was confused by your I'm sorry. Because actually, um, snail shells are very It is a very useful lesson about the way science successive And it is in a sense, in a real sense, true and in some sense are The atomic theory model of, say of, Niels with a nucleus and the electrons as particles That works up to a point. But is then superseded and so the class was actually getting on for wrong, that the way science proceeds. So I wouldn't shrink from that. If &gt;&gt;female #1: As long as it's pointed out. &gt;&gt;Richard Dawkins: Yes, as long as it's pointed &gt;&gt;female #2: Hello, my question is also related I worked with a science teacher who was also Creationist, which I found to be a bit of I just wondered what you think of teaching schools currently, because I know there's on recently. &gt;&gt;Richard Dawkins:Yes. Was your Creationist colleague what you might the world is &gt;&gt;female #2: I don't know the details, sorry. [giggles] &gt;&gt;Richard Dawkins: That's an important question Because that really sorts them out, just to Creationist, it could mean, was it a he or &gt;&gt;female #2: He. &gt;&gt;Richard Dawkins: He. Could mean that he believes that pretty much including the age of the universe, the age off. Which is a very different matter that the book of Genesis is literally true, this, and on the second day God created that, and it all happened six thousand Um, if the teacher was teaching them that, &gt;&gt;female #2: He wasn't teaching that, but So it was a contradiction in terms even though he didn't actually believe that &gt;&gt;Richard Dawkins: He taught, he taught what &gt;&gt;Unknown female speaker 2: Yeah. &gt;&gt;Richard Dawkins: Yes. &gt;&gt;female #2 : He obviously would have had &gt;&gt;Richard Dawkins: Yes. Um, I've actually got into a bit of an argument idea that your beliefs are private is sacred, and rightly so. Which means that to accept that if a teacher privately believes publicly teaches, there there at least could wish to employ him as a teacher. So I tried to think of the most extreme example a doctor teaching medical students but believes in the stork theory of reproduction. And I said, surely, even you not be employed teaching medical students. I was kicked all around the room because his as what he teaches is the truth. I'm sorry I shouldn't have said that, the come because of sex. And that was where I parted company from my because it seemed to me that somebody who beliefs in his head is not somebody I would I then tried to push an even more extreme who believes of the earth is flat but nevertheless Once again, a very substantial number of were scandalized that I thought this teacher I it seems to me that somehow he has damned contradiction. Another example, which is actually a real of astronomy at Oxford told me of and writes learned papers in astronomical papers had tacitly assume that the universe He writes these papers and gets them published, years old and I can't get my head of around contradiction. I don't see how you can say this person is in his head. Um, that's all I've got to say. I'm just baffled. &gt;&gt;female #2: I just got to say I'm a geography flat, I would've &gt;&gt;Richard Dawkins: No. well. That's right, but the hypothetical case but &gt;&gt;female #2: Okay. Thank you. &gt;&gt;male #4: Hi, my name is Mehdi. I just have a quick question considering that equal to the extremely big. Do you consider the solar system as just a &gt;&gt;Richard Dawkins: No, I am not sure it's came up earlier, because the Bohr model the solar system. But it's actually rather wrong, and so one that's what you're doing, make a kind of science is just an atom in some It's a nice science fiction idea, but I don't &gt;&gt;male #5: Hi, I like the way you presented Obviously, you had to stop at children here would still be wondering if Who is the first man? So my question is, in the book do you attempt the chemical &gt;&gt;Richard Dawkins: Oh oh okay, so you're going person. &gt;&gt;male #5: Yes. &gt;&gt;Richard Dawkins: Yes, yes of course. It is true that the whole process of evolution singular chemical event happened, which was It wouldn't have been DNA, but it would have some kind of molecule which had the property The property of making copies of itself. Once you've got Once you've got that, you're well on your of evolution will follow. But we do have to have that first step, which molecule. That would have been a phenomenon of Chemistry luck, which had to come only had to happen once so that really could And we don't know whether it was a massive So far, no chemist as far as I know, has come theory for exactly what happened. It is actually a rather interesting thought, believes we are alone in the universe, if this is the only life in the entire than that automatically commits you to a very Since there are in the universe, that's a one with twenty-two to believe that we are alone in the universe, of life, on our planet, is a Because it only happened in one of the ten happen. Well, when you put it like that than you realize that we are the only we could be. We could be because if the origin of life that there's only one planet in the ten to have to be that planet. Because here And so it's actually not impossible. I don't believe it, I think that the origin much more probable event than that. Which, the flip side of that automatically lots of life all around the universe. The universe is teeming with life but because billion examples of life dotted around the so far apart from one another that Which is rather sad, a sort of celestial Polynesia um, to bridge the, to bridge the gaps. [laughter] with the theory, of the theory of the origin say yes of course that's the way it had to And once we've done that then, then we can and lots of life all around the universe. &gt;&gt;male #5: Thanks. &gt;&gt;presenter: These will be our last three &gt;&gt;Richard Dawkins: All right. &gt;&gt;male #6: Hi there. You gave a little tidbit of wisdom around you people in authority. And I was interested in understanding from generated your very strong beliefs when you be in a position where you are now, facts and are vocal with that. But you didn't always have that, your book, twelve, or to age of children here a child developed these beliefs and everything &gt;&gt;Richard Dawkins: Yes. I, I prefer not to talk about very strong should be evidence comes in. And so, um, I think I prefer to say that if something is very strong then there comes But you ask about my own childhood, and I schools, so I was brought up to believe, which them when I became old enough to understand existence because I was very living things. And very impressed by the argument that there is it looks as though it's got a designer. It was only when I learned the Darwinian explanation true, at least broadly true, that I was able Other people, they base their religious belief else and so they will shed it for a different But my case it really was discovering Darwin. &gt;&gt;male #6: Were you a minority amongst your &gt;&gt;Richard Dawkins: No, I wouldn't say so, &gt;&gt;male #6: Thanks. &gt;&gt;male #7: Excellent, the guy in front of ask. [laughter] for that really excellent excellent explanation grandfather, my son actually turned to me [laughter] I guess my question would be because there's count book, what else would you be recommending twelve to be reading, or what experiences about science? &gt;&gt;Richard Dawkins: Gosh, I'm not the best I haven't actually looked into that question are others here who could make suggestions. I bet there are some very good books,and probably YouTube. There's some very inspiring things on YouTube I've already mentioned David Attenborough's I think they're Carl Sagan's Cosmos. It's a bit old now but it's available on DVD There are some good I think we live in an extraordinarily rich of &gt;&gt;male #7: Do you think technology's going a ten year old, and as opposed to an IPad. [laughter] a part in that? &gt;&gt;Richard Dawkins: Yes, I do. And in a way today's children are kind of back to my childhood when I mean the sort computer would have just dazzled the And I mean I was desperately covetous of a film strips And I desperately wanted one of these things. The idea of having my own little projector onto the wall. And I tried to even make my own but getting paper and drawing on and of course, it didn't work. And I prayed and prayed and prayed and prayed be given one of these little projectors for [laughter] And, um, but I mean that was the ambition of a child in, when I was a child. And of course nowadays such a projector are think which you can do on your own laptop. And so, yes, I think that the Internet is should appreciate what wonderful opportunities better if Moore's law persists as &gt;&gt;male #7: Great to know. I would just like to say one final comment teaching something they don't necessarily [laughter] &gt;&gt;male #8: And my question is, did you consider to the And because &gt;&gt;Richard Dawkins: Yes. &gt;&gt;male #8: I live in Ireland my kids go to school, &gt;&gt;Richard Dawkins: Yes. think if one nearly everybody else is Catholic, Why do people believe? And when you think of it and then they look to lots of different religions, I took them I think that's an interesting question, why, exist? &gt;&gt;Richard Dawkins: Yes. Will you pose it as a psychological question, almost a school, in the case of Ireland it would they're indoctrinated, and everyone around requires a great deal of independence Fortunately, a large number of people actually and so childhood indoctrination of course and the next because those people who Catholic schools because obviously the ones in teaching so it does persists from generation And so that's the psychological answer. &gt;&gt;male #8: But there's hooks that religion &gt;&gt;Richard Dawkins:There are hooks and I would is that people tend to want to go And so, for example, if you want to survive will an agreeable thought. I never quite got why it was that agreeable threaten you with going to burn forever in If you commit some footling list on offense, because in a way, um, there's a sort of law of something by threat then the more The more horrible and nasty it has to be to So if the threat is if you do something wrong write out hundred lines or so, you know is highly plausible that you will In my youth, it would have been being beaten. Also that was plausible because it really hell is so ludicrously implausible, it has [chuckles] So that you take it seriously because might be true and if it is true you're going and ever, and ever. Every time a that can be burned off you again. I mean, they pile it on, they pile on the Now that's another of the psychological hooks. Ultimately, as a Darwinian, I would need to from, from the evolutionary point of view, that perhaps is another story which perhaps &gt;&gt;male #8: Next book.. &gt;&gt;Richard Dawkins: Yes. &gt;&gt;presenter: Professor Dawkins, thank you such a powerful book to teach science to our And thank you for coming today and joining through the web stream around Europe, thanks Don't worry if you didn't get a chance to after the signing session, he will uh,he told us for a bit more while. Let's hear it one more time for Professor [Applause]