I would start this with a gag about how there's The Legend of Chun Li, but I'm gonna be so here we go, Street Fighter: the Legend of Chun Li, a massive [Title Theme] Street Fighter: the Legend of Chun Li is a It feels like an honest attempt at taking to the same level of respect as literary adaptations, The Transformers. You said cars pick their drivers. Sometimes they pick a driver with a cheap-ass Now, this isn't to say that the literary are definitely greater and lesser adaptations On one hand you have adaptations like Annihilation text capture the spirit of the novel in a medium, and on the other hand you have stuff Did you see those red marking on the side Yes, very attractive. I've read about a dragon once with markings Fascinating, you can tell me by the fire one Wait a minute. Red markings? Like the dragon that ravaged Tavnor? That's the one, do you remember it's true The one to bind it? The one to subdue it to your will so you can Yes! but that specific spread in quality, and the made, means that a movie based on a book tends The presuppositions created by the phrase broadly neutral, trending toward positive. The same cannot be said for the phrase "based The pursuit of the "respectable" video studios still trying. Tomb Raider and Assassin's Creed would be some prestige, but let's roll back a decade. It's 2009. The Playstation 3 and XBox 360 are hits, and it's the standard. Blockbuster video games are investing more Genres that would have previously done little and just said "yeah, uh, shoot the dudes laden with pathos, melodrama, full voice acting, Simultaneously so-called nerd culture has part of the decade being dominated by huge Lord of the Rings, Star Wars, and Transformers degree, the cultural zeitgeist itself. In 2009 Capcom tried to capitalize on this Fighter into an arty crime drama. By copying The Transformers. It did not work. I love this job While the dramatic qualities of Michael Bay's endless ridicule and criticism, the spectacle profits definitely resonated with investors. From aspect ratio to colour palette to story is the budget-friendly version. Same aspect ratio, but using spherical lenses Same colour palette, but in broad, washed colour grade. Same plot structure with a superfluous Troopcop at the very end. It's actually kind of unsettling the degree from Michael Bay's notes, all part of an It even aspires to a similar weight and intensity. Not just action, but capital D Drama, which Ang Lee's Crouching Tiger. On some level this project started as Crouching a martial arts action movie that was, at its Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon. That's not a bad goal, all told, and a character the story you want to tell. Within the Street Fighter universe Chun Li She's an attractive martial artist who works death, and... that's about it. Unlike a lot of the other characters from mythology, explain magic powers, or introduce tell her basic story. It is a straightforward origins and revenge well, character and story. A good cue to the dramatic intent of the film The movie starts with a glory shot of the Chun Li playing piano and her father watching top ruminating on her childhood dream of being This moment lasts almost a minute and has From there the film cuts into a much faster and the music changes from relaxed piano to Both the editor and cinematographer are working they want us to share her viewpoint and understand of her early years in San Francisco versus This is solid fundamental film making. So what's the problem? [Laughs] oh boy is the script terrible. That's not the only problem, but if we were went wrong with Crouching Pianist Hidden Street The performances leave a lot to be desired, when the script consists of gems like this: my father was an important business man Your father was a very well connected business Kreuk sounds like she's reading a bedtime Which, yeah, sure, a great way to really elevate the audience like they're actual children, With my mother gone, the path in front of I couldn't help feeling like I was being led I'm actually willing to bet that this voice was a late addition once they realized the own merits and audiences were having trouble However Kreuk's condescending narration For some brevity, let's just make it into to be able to get to all of these. 1 - Terrible dialogue 3 - Poorly explained stakes end plotlines and does not change that actively makes the story worse doing the right thing And that is the bottom line that we're going the script is terrible. Let's talk about that plot, shall we? As a young child Chun Li wants to be a concert Her family moves to Hong Kong. She is taught Wushu by her father. However at a young age her father is kidnapped his best to try and set himself apart from character by acting the character with a lilting Chun Li grows up and does become a concert After a performance one night she receives person. On her way home she sees a man with a spider and she calls for help, but no one comes and This is the kind of moment that isn't going you mentally assume they're going to fill I am, despite multiple viewings, hard pressed scene. Moving on Chun Li's mom dies of cancer. Bison has his business partners killed for Bison menaces Chun Li's father who he has something. After her mother's funeral Chun Li gets needs to find a man named Gen, who's the guess Chun Li becomes homeless in Thailand This isn't well explained at all, a lot changes seem concerned that she's quitting her job the death of her mother without making any or contact. We'll come back to this plot point later. Bison acts menacing while talking about real Chun Li fights off six guys while starving a man by dropping a shelving unit full of She's picked up by Gen who takes her back in an extended training montage and he tells her father, and so Chun Li starts spying on Actually, as a part of this he explains that but he grew a conscience so he started the that he had done as a criminal, but he's ancient scrolls are younger than a New Kids So the next 20 minutes or so are largely concerned He is, I guess, extorting the city of Bankok he can kick out all the residents, bulldoze condos, but I'm not sure why he needs to like exactly the kind of garbage move cities Also there's a MacGuffin called the White the city. This sub plot leads to Chun Li following Bison's we're going to put the movie on pause and I have talked in the past about the Kuleshov psychological mechanisms through which editing Now, gaze describes the act of looking. In a film context we are principally concerned the camera chooses to look at and how it chooses the movie. No better are the ideas of gaze and montage its gaze to express the gaze of a character manufactured to justify gazing. So, Chun Li's plan to get information out Cantana is potentially receptive because she's to us the audience via the camera following club. This isn't necessarily condemnation, but break down the why and how of this information come to understand that Cantana is attracted images. Being aware of these kinds of mechanisms makes of the ways in which a film is steering our us better equipped to vocalize the messages case the way that the film has chosen to justify character as the agent of that staring. Anyway, this subplot ends with Chun Li fighting from the nightclub she shoots a man in the So, yeh, he's dead. In a scene that is up there in the realms with this?" Bison is using Cantana's dead body as a too much. Alright, strap in for a second, 'cus this Like, the punching bag scene is definitely story. So, in his youth as the orphan of some Irish to just steal fish but crossfade time jump no longer homeless he takes his very pregnant their baby out through her belly in order he wouldn't have a conscience and would only We'll come back to this one too. Evil guys attack the secret hide out in the They send in ninjas to fight hand to hand Both parts of that are stupid, but it does I'll do it myself In the explosion Gen dies, then Bison hires his ass kicked. Now, this next scene, Chun Li physically assaults manifests and gets some more information about instructive because of the sound. I haven't pointed this out up until now, been re-dubbed, which is actually part of the emotion of the face and lips just doesn't Also there's a different character to the versus the dialogue that's recorded on set. It's subtle, but pervasive. Now, if you listen to this guy's lines, listen lady, I think it's time for you to Hear how they're kinda mumbly and overlapping I think it's time for you to go I wouldn't be surprised to find out that is why there's so much dubbing like this What does this have to do with my father? Many people wanted those connections. People like Bison. The leader of Shadaloo Moving on with the plot, Chun Li gets trapped Bison kills her dad in front of her. She escapes, but takes a grazing shot in a starts. Gen shows up because he's not dead, just wound in seconds, and she finally figures Returning to the dock she threatens this guy fights Balrog, they figure out that the White off the roof with a fireball, kills him in some sequel bait, credits roll. Did you even notice the two supporting characters These two? The interpol agent and the Thai detective? Nope? Guess we didn't need them. His name's Bison I've tracked him through never come close, not once. They actually take up a substantial chunk cops in pursuit of Bison and his Shadalaoo off to the side of the action or show up after They're pretty much just here for padding We should be more aggressive Looks like you got that down Well, unlike you, I don't lose my man Alright, [cracking noise] let's start with The first major flaw in this is that no one Her mother just died, she's clearly in a deeply of these people, friends, or extended family and packs up her house. this isn't indicative of a plot hole, it's or conflict. And this all ties in to another issue: she She doesn't get up and walk away from it all, with the poorest of society. Oh, sure, she sleeps in an alley and skips she's moving right back into her multimillion Living on the streets for a couple weeks was a poverty tourist. If she ever got tired of living in a slum Hong Kong. She sacrificed nothing. This ties directly into the character arc: At the start of the film she's a confident, As the film progresses she dabbles in poverty remorse, and returns to her life of wealth person. Now, that's not an irredeemable problem. Lots of good movies have main characters who But it IS a problem when your movie opens turned into the person they are! Sometimes I wonder how I got to be the way The writers have explicitly set up a transformation I used to be a little girl who wanted to be who murders people for the greater good. I used to be a selfish, upper class snob, and sacrifice. These are the kinds of stories that we are, Any transformation contrast is deeply compromised father is kidnapped. Now, the problem is not the existence of these the film. We're shown that she's been exposed to this and we only spend the briefest time with her This is a really good example of how movies literally. We can look at the opening of the film and her father being kidnapped and her success don't feel the respective weight of these Because it's such a tiny part of the opening a brief interlude in a life of violence, a for revenge, rather than the normal world we see of her in that stage of her life is of the film. The only thing that changes is the number Next up is the whole thing where Bison transfers I have a couple problems with this scene. First, and least important, is that the intensity out of place given the tone and treatment It's an extremely jarring kick-the-dog scene evil the bad guy is, but I think it becomes extreme. It's such a sharp break from almost everything it stops being the actions of a character You're not thinking about the moment and movie, you're thinking about why the people The only other scene that comes close is where bag, while everything else is sanitized, bloodless, Beyond that is the implications of this scene So, first, things that happen in movies don't Like, characters can believe something without It's one thing for this myth to exist, for he heard, but it's effectively confirmed later the vessel holding all the goodness of his That means that in the world of Street Fighter be transferred from one person to another. While the implications on free will and morality to actually improve the story at all. It makes Bison less comprehensible. It doesn't make his goals any clearer. We still have no idea what he's up to, what his end goal is. It actually makes it worse. By offloading the explanation onto supernatural where the villain's actions are tautologically It's fine for melodrama, Raul Julia understood The day Bison graced your village was the But for me? It was Tuesday. But Legend of Chun Li is trying to take itself There's one thing I learned in the slums: won't do. Everyone has a price. There's a plot in here about buying up waterfront the city board into making the sale which Was the board zoning the area as a slum for It's like the writers couldn't decide if Bison shady business practices, or a Chinatown style in. It's hard to care about any of them since The people who live in the slum get kicked again, not that we ever really connected with The big showdown at the end with Interpol, to do with the whole slum buyout anyway, and The only reason anyone cares about the White be a weapon, even though Bison's whole plan To top it all off, the changes to the source In her original incarnations Chun Li is alternately Changing her from a cop to a concert pianist character more relatable. In fact it makes the story hard to tell because crap that's super easy to hand wave if she Why is she in Thailand? Why does she know martial arts? Why does she have combat training and not on her? Why does she care about the legal front of all of this action nonsense is just explained The character conflict comes baked in: when training and let the courts bring him to justice, When she meets Gen does she stick with Interpol and expectations, or become a vigilante and Instead we're asked to believe that a concert to be willing to throw herself at a well armed wind up as Jane Doe floating down the river. So, they wanted to legitimize the video game awful script. Every single problem with this movie comes The characters frequently make decisions based script needs to get them somewhere, the villains trope possible, resulting in an antagonist entire chunks of the film are flat out useless the funny thing is that they failed so hard a sub-genre that is peppered with examples and hilariously shoddy filmmaking, that they it is. It does all make the movie somewhat unique. You're not a schoolgirl anymore. Really in all the agonizing over when video miss that they already peaked with Super Mario Okay, look, how many Marios are there between There's three: there's Mario Mario and Luigi Mike. Mike! Help these Marios around the side.