(shapes springing) (electrical warbling) - So I have been using for the past three and it's been great. I have felt absolutely no haven't needed to. It's funny, most of my but occasionally I will have which is then when, you and the screen and everything and it's great. If I didn't have to do that ever, I would just have, like, something like that. But that range of work is why and it's been awesome so far. (light groovy electronic music) So along comes this M4 and it's the first generation that I have actually been You know, they've stacked a couple of the right upgrades in the right places for things that actually So let's just get right 'Cause the first big And the main reason why this is that it's got the new And we all know the leap from Intel chips to Apple silicon chips But since then, it's been incremental upgrade, going and then M4. So I think it's pretty or M3 needs to upgrade, but there have been stacking up upon each other from M1 to M4 that the numbers are now starting to get kind of interesting. So just to set the stage, this is the M1 Max maxed out. Basically, the best you 64 gigs of unified memory on this system. And this unit I've been is also maxed out. It's the best you can get now; faster, stronger on the new one: Three nanometers versus five, 546 gigs per second of memory bandwidth versus 400. Just the hardware are clearly there. So, to keep the apples-to-apples Apple, in their own presentation, said up to 2.2 times faster and 1.9 times faster GPU performance. So we're looking at around twice as fast, and the synthetic benchmarks I got over 4,000 in which is the highest single by a while. And the multi-core score Tops the chart. And then, GPU has improved a lot to the point where it's Not M2 Max, M2 Ultra chips, the one that's currently in the Mac Pro. So it's pretty clear that on paper, yeah, these M4 chips are But that's just on paper. What about in real life? What about real workflow stuff? So, on YouTube, you might have noticed a lot of the benchmarking and is video editing benchmarks, just because that's the most YouTubers do on their computers. It's the most intensive thing I do. But yeah, that's what's gonna so that's the first thing I looked into. So my own benchmark is a video project in Final Cut Pro, moving things around, messing tracking, and then, of This project here is a and action camera footage and smaller video files And not only did this laptop faster than any other but it also exported the final as my M1 Max laptop, which is really exciting So a pretty prime example of the performance unlocking something new is Final Cut Pro 11 just came out, and I've been messing and there's a new headlining And my theory is that it's taking pretty heavy advantage of Apple silicon, specifically the neural engine, but I had to prove it. So out of a background in a video, it was this painstaking where you're essentially for every single frame. Now, this one works even better like mRotoAI, and it's even faster. Basically, all you do is click the subject and sort of refine your selection, and then once you're good to go, you just analyze forward and just let it do its thing, and it just continues for the whole clip. So, I ran through this on the M4 Max. I ran through this on the M1 Max, but I did some other machines as well. And the results, well, the M1 in two minutes, 56 seconds. The M4 Max got it down to But then M2 Ultra got it But then the Intel Xeon Mac Pro, super expensive with the took six minutes for the So, the leap is crazy, and I'm thinking M4 Ultra is pretty sick. But of course, you might you might be something else; I just watched Tyler Stalman's It's really good. The second half of his video, against the M1 generation and not only does it but sometimes it actually gets close to or it beats the newest which is pretty insane. So I'll link his whole video Now, obviously, we expect to eventually get their with the M4 Ultra chip. I'm sure that'll be immense. But even so, with this, it's is still improving fast enough is outperforming some of the desktop chips from earlier years of Apple silicon. There's a bunch of other I'll link some more below But I think the bottom and from other tests that is, yeah, there is now a from M1 to M4. Not just 30 or 40%, but, like, But that by itself might not be enough to so there's more. Luckily, several other things are updated about this laptop as well. So, first of all, this as you may have noticed, which the M1 generation didn't have, but it's not exactly new. It's actually had the Space Black or silver. I do love me some Space Black, but anyone who has one already knows it looks really good new, but then (sighs) it kind and starts to wear over time. Still, the best solution I just as that little bit and you'll never see fingerprints again. So I'll leave a link below Glitch skin if you wanna check that out. It's much more interesting But there is another visual and you've probably noticed It looks so good. That is the nano-texture display option. It is new, and I love it. It's incredible. And the thing is, I about how it might wear over time, but on a laptop like this, Nano-texture started on the Pro Display XDR, and this is the hardest one to recommend. Like, it's stupid expensive, and then it's also so It just picked up fingerprints so easily. You'd have to have the right to actually clean it. Like, it is tough. I wouldn't recommend it to most. But it seems like it improved since then because now it's a $300 that a lot of people have. Then they offered it as a which obviously that's something people are touching and we haven't really seen And so I think on a laptop like Geez. If it can be, like, maintenance pain-free, then it feels like a kind of no-brainer. Like, this is my favorite Like, you're gonna take in all sorts of different lighting, and just the way this matte and completely removes any from anything from an office to an airplane with a window next to you. Like, it's actually incredible. It's awesome. All laptops should have It's 100 bucks more for the MacBook Pro, and The fact that this is new to honestly, is very compelling to me. So then the only other is Thunderbolt 5, which is funny; it's kind of overrated and So the outgoing laptops very fast Thunderbolt 4 USB-C ports. Love that. Almost every new high-end laptop has that. These new ones here are which a lot of other And actually, the base 14-inch MacBook Pro gets one more port, too, which is great. So now they all have the It feels a bit underrated, and it's in so few laptops, but it is actually a genuine Like, we love more bandwidth, You can do three 6K instead of two. So that's awesome. But there are so few Thunderbolt 5 accessories out right now, and the ones that do start to come out you also notice are pretty expensive. So my favorite accessory for example, I think, is the Samsung X5, the Thunderbolt 3 drive. It's incredible. 2,800 megabyte per second read speeds. They don't sell them anymore, but you can get a nearly equivalent two-terabyte SanDisk drive Then there's the new and it'll read and write at Damn! But it's also two terabytes for 400 bucks. So, you know, as a video editor who's passing around really large files, like, I'm gonna want one I'm gonna wait for more But I think the point of is that ecosystem of drives, docks, interfaces, that's gonna be built up over time. This is great for but it doesn't actually Unless you're literally gonna plug in three Pro Displays right off the bat. So then there's a couple of You know, the new Center that will follow you around. I actually think it looks The battery life is also thanks to the M4's improved efficiency. So I think this is mostly under lighter workloads, Same size battery, better battery life. And then, the screen has a of 1,000 nits over the previous; So, if you're in a brighter space, whether you have nano-texture or not, everything is more readable. And it turns out Apple quietly updated all these MacBook Pros and didn't tell anybody. (chuckles) They're probably still But yeah, these and efficiency and it might just be confirmation bias, but I feel like the responsiveness is actually noticeable to my eye. So you might not upgrade just for the performance improvements, but they are pretty good. You might not upgrade just for but it is really good. And you definitely won't or just for the slightly brighter display or the ultra-wide webcam. But I think all of these things stacked on top of each I think you actually can If you are regularly pushing you can justify this improvement, or at least that's what I'm M1 Max is gonna be perfectly no question about that. I also think it's really Apple Intelligence to thank basically having a new minimum It just makes all of the base Macs feel like a better deal now. And the Mac Mini is amazing, We know there's gonna be But it was a really good new laptop. Thanks for watching. Catch you in the next one. Peace. (upbeat electronic music)