My name is Chet Sandhu, I smuggled roughly $50 million worth of illegal steroids from This is how crime works. There's about a million people It was just like a If you go to a doctor for So you have to go illegally. So smuggling, bringing it I was bringing it in by large amounts. Because the need for it, There are steroids in the UK that can be prescribed by a doctor, but they will give you a minute amount. But if you want to import, sell, give them to other people, That comes in a conspiracy The first time I started to sell steroids was probably about 1994. I was working as door security and then that's where I got People, the doormen, the security, they all wanted to be big. They were all taking steroids, and people wanted the proper sauce. They wanted the real deal. I thought, OK, this is what they want, and there's a niche in the market here because there was a lot of people that couldn't even get their hands on it. I had to go to the source, because that was the address that I used to buy in England. The Karachi scale probably I'm Indian, so I need a We'd go there for a week, and we would source the drugs somehow, and we would bring them back. So we traveled there, booked into a hotel. Prostitutes were there, yeah. On the eighth floor where we were staying. And I used to talk to them, and they said, &quot;What you need to do is These people have links with They're all paid off. They so they're allowed to move So I went to the shop. There was just a market-stall shop. There was two guys outside with shotguns, and I thought, this is a chemist, and they've got guns outside. So the boss called me in, And then he was asking me stuff, where am I from and this and that. So I explained to him what I wanted. He went, &quot;Right, OK.&quot; Gave us a price. What was it, 30 grand? He says, &quot;I have the real or I can give you snide, a And they come exactly the same. I said, &quot;No, no, no.&quot; I said, I gave him the money, and what he did, he didn't even count it. He just tapped on the ceiling of the roof. One of them squares opened up, He gave him the money, and he And he says, &quot;[Censored], And he says, &quot;Come here He'll be here for you 11 o'clock, and bring two taxis,&quot; he said. And we went back, and just like he said. And I only stuck with that He backed me up. He helped me out and And they even spoke to the The steroids, they were all coming from registered factories. These factories are official. Europe, it's like Pfizer. He used to sell their products. The supplier worked with a few factories, because he had every spectrum of pharmaceutical drugs The companies, he was working with Roche. Roche is a big firm. Roche was a big supplier I did ask him, &quot;Do you to anybody else in the UK on this level?&quot; And he said no. He said, &quot;It's only you.&quot; The only people that were but I know white guys can't go to Karachi and do what I just did, because firstly they and they wouldn't trust them, So that's how I knew he on a high level with anybody Normally steroids have Because I've smelled They have that same odor. That's how I know always. Sometimes I've smelled So that, I would suggest, is just filled up with cooking oil. So fake products are getting moved. I just had the finished but I knew that was from a good source. So these steroids, they're, like, made. They're made officially. Hologram packaging, how to take, they come with all the the side effects. It's like a full It's like everything. Producer: Have you ever Yes, I've seen a backstreet garage lab. This guy, he had the oils. He was just getting them in The quality of the steroid was rubbish. And he was putting it in the 10-ml multishot himself. He puts it in himself, seals it himself. And so this is where you can get bacteria. Anything can go into these bottles. And this is where people and other things were happening to them, because it's not made The quality of what my friend was selling and the quality of what I was bringing in, there were two extreme levels because the quality of what it was very, very weak and When we got the steroids, They all came like a little and there's one ampule in But how we had to bring one of these boxes and put And so it was condensed by At first, we did this by getting each bottle out But there was 50,000 ampules, and this was like, So I spoke to my taxi driver about it, went to his village where he was from. He got about 12 boys there, sat them all down in his house. So he got it all, the and I paid him, I think, about PS300, that was like a month's wage, After that experience I told that I had a problem with the packaging, and he says, &quot;OK, let me do it.&quot; I disguised them in vitamin B12 tubs, but he organized that on To smuggle the steroids back, they would all be packed down. I think it was 23 to 24 kilo I was allowed to take back in one case. I thought, &quot;OK, let's just because it's not illegal So I'm thinking we'll bribe them. That was my initial thought. The first time going yeah, that was nervous. The first security were there and said, &quot;OK, open up the cases.&quot; We opened them up. Some of them didn't even Steroids, they was just Well, what is it? But why and there's too much of it as I got through that bit because there was some adult And one of the security, he picked her up. In the year 1996 in Pakistan, you can't get adult magazines there. You can't get it. It's illegal. So we gave them the magazines, and then they let us go through and then I had to go to the X-ray machine. They X-rayed it, and then they So the same process again. But with them again, I bought That was my first time round. The second time round they knew who I was. I had to pay them off at and then I had to pay the X-ray ones. I think I gave them, PS40 each on the security, PS40 to PS50. And then it was only the chief narcotics officer at Karachi airport approached me, and he said, &quot;You just and I will guide you through.&quot; So on that trip, when I went and I just bypassed all security, all the X-ray machines, all this. He just told his people, his porters, &quot;Get their bags and take The bags are on the flight. and the bags go from that and then from Amsterdam to Newcastle. It's a 5 a.m. flight. There's no security there at that time. The people involved in smuggling operation was me and two mules I would take with me. I would just pay them PS1,000, pay for all the holiday, just all the food, drinks, expenses, I'd pay that. So for them, they're just getting a free trip away for a week. So that was the system I had, and I would change my mules as well. It would be people who I knew, people who I knew from my hometown, trusted people sort of thing, who could keep their mouth shut. Back then there was a who would be willing to do that because the jail for it in England was class C, which is I think a maximum of three years. So the sentencing on that, you know, it wasn't like cocaine or ecstasy. I walked through, and There was no airport security there. And I was thinking, &quot;Wow, got through.&quot; After I bring in the steroids into the UK, then the marketing starts. I would approach, I had Manchester, and Liverpool, and I would sell to them in bulk. They would buy off me And plus I sold steroids singly as well for the top value, for PS4 an ampule. I got the top price because and just buy 10 at a time. Nobody else would take because it was all done quite easily. If I moved it in bulk, in large amounts, it goes quite quickly. I would serve up people I people at the gym, security, other gyms, they all got served up with my supply. It's quite open that where people have just and they've just started I would always inject at home, but I have injected in a gym. I've even injected on, stood outside the door of a club as well. Security, just even there as well. Big gyms are complicit. Yes, they would really turn because they know these people, if they weren't taking steroids, they're not going to come and train. So it's hand in hand. You know, you want these people in here because they're paying the monthly fees and they're using all this but they're using So if you stop them from using steroids or try and stop them from using steroids, they won't go to your gym. Yeah, and in smaller the owners, and they're and I've seen them just talk &quot;I've got this, I've got that. This is available.&quot; How it used to work was, I if they wanted the steroids. They used to ask me because they knew I had a quality product, and it was good, and it was on there sound and reliable and based as well. Like, the stock will always be there. But mainly they'll just let it happen. As long as it's not directly just do what you want. People that moved on from I do know people who have and they've asked them for testosterone, and I think I remember one but it was only, like, 100 milligram. If there's a big seizure made, normally things can go dry in that area. Things can go dry, and and then people will, if they can't get the best stuff, they will get the stuff But I was just doing so it never went dry. I did these runs. It lasted about a year and and I was doing it every I was just thinking to and I can take back, I can you know? 60 grand off three bags is, what, 20 grand a bag, I'm making. So I wasn't going to let Greedy, I was, in a way. The cost of my trip would be like this. There would be three tickets bought, but they're about PS350 each. The hotel, I would pay for two rooms, one for me, one for the mules. That wouldn't be much in Pakistan. That was only about, I I used to give everybody drinks out. So you would spend money there as well. You would give them money, I gave a lot of people tips as well, which I didn't need to do. But I did that just to keep people happy because I'm doing bad in their country. And the officers, yes, I PS300 on them on each case. So that would be on top about PS2,500, PS2,500 for PS60,000 return. I've made millions and I've lost millions. I bought myself a few things. Jewelry, clothing, cars, I spent a lot of money on. I had a lot of nice cars. You buy cars, but I crashed While the money's rolling There's a lot of people but when the train stops, they And they don't even come They're all there for the ride. But once the money stops, the jail comes, and then that's when reality, it kicks in. The steroids I was bringing Sustanon, which was a mix of testosterone. So there was a testosterone decanoate, propionate, cypionate. It's just a mixture of tests, what last a different length of time. The main forms is tablet form, but they go through The tablet form, people have seem to gone but some people like to You still get your Anapolon, Anavar, which is a because it's the mildest and it has the least An ampule, you get different ones of them. They normally come in 1 ml. You can get 1-ml amps or 2-ml amps. It depends on the steroid. But you can buy a Mini vials, yeah, you get They just have a plastic stopper on. You put the needle You get 10 in one of them. So that's how they're normally sold. There's some people that will abuse it, and there's some people that can take about 20 injections a week, which is what I used to do. There was a time where I I needed new injecting sites. I've injected my biceps my chest even once, my thighs, my ass. Anywhere where there's a big muscle. If you're looking for then obviously you're abusing it. Steroid use, misuse, yes, it is a medical matter. Yes, I was addicted to steroids when I was taking them in my peak. I used to be about 12 stone. 12 stone, I couldn't get past no matter how hard I trained. And then I went up to 17 1/2 stone. From 12 to 17 1/2, and my bench press was 200 kilo. 200-kilo bench. There weren't many people in who had that sort of power and strength like that that I had. And I think I was addicted to that. I was addicted to having and if I stopped taking the steroids, that power and strength's The look of me is not going to be as good. It's not going to be as intimidating. It's not going to be -- I will lessen. I will go lesser, lesser, That's my belief. Yeah, so an addiction? Yes, because I was addicted to that and I wanted to stay that way. If you have enough on you, what they suspect you are supplying, and you are making money off this, you can go to jail, yeah. Up to 14 years in the US. I was arrested in Spain, Alicante, in 1999. The amount I had, I think, was and 50,000 ampules. That's what I had on me. We landed at Alicante I was stood on my own. The two mules were stood on their own. The baggage was going round and round. Our cases never came through. So then I knew something was up, and it was then when I knew, I think it was [censored] here. And then the Guardia Civil come and they went, bam, Handcuff me. I was devastated. And I just looked over at [censored] and [censored], I just saw instantly then, I seen it in their faces, like, bam. They just dropped. Me, I knew what I was doing, and they didn't know what they were doing. They didn't know that that this could happen. I knew, you know, but it was just a sinking feeling. And then they took us away. They took us to Fontcalent. We're just in the middle of mountains, nothing else around it. It's just a jail amongst mountains. They took us in. It looked scary to me. We were just held there on Our court date had not were trying to find out They went, &quot;[Censored], you And they went, &quot;Sandhu, I went, &quot;Why can't we stay together?&quot; They went, &quot;No, no, no, not you. Then you're going to four.&quot; That was the top-security wing. They put me there because I was intimidating looking. They didn't really like So my cell was just, like, Tiny. Yeah, you could if you put your arms out. The length, not that long. There was a concrete slab for a bed, and on top of that there A sponge. And then you're given a to sleep on, on top of the concrete slab. And then my door is like, It's got one door with bars that locks, and then there's another door that locks because we are considered dangerous. And then some of us, we have to go handcuffed through the door. We have to put our hands in, I had fights with people. At first when I went in, I got talking to this guy, [censored], who could speak a little bit of English. He used to smoke heroin. So I started to smoke heroin as well when I first went in, just to get my mind out of where it was. I needed that escapism, and There was only about 40 heads on my jail. There was four Germans there for kidnap. They had a bit of a gang. Russians were there, about The South Americans, I didn't know the language. I was on the comedown off the steroids. They were all leaving my body now. I was feeling angry at I was on heroin. My mind was not good. There was fights. Stabbings I was stabbed there twice. His cousin later stabbed me in the back. When heroin goes dry, when there's none on the wing, there's a lot of aggression there, people wanting drugs, and fights start. I just lost everything. I lost everything. I was married on the out. My wife found out about because I was in jail. So So she didn't want me. She goes, &quot;You're never going to see I had three children at the time, and I've never seen I had my chance, and I blew it. Blew it. How I feel about the mules now? I feel bad about the two because they went to jail as well, and I told them this would I told them jail would not happen. But it did happen. I messed up. I got out of Spain 2002, and then I went back to jail 2003. So I was only out a year. I didn't really learn my lesson from my first jail experience. Simply because of the fact I had the wrong mentality about me. There was no rehabilitation in Spain. There was nobody, no I didn't get anything. I think that's why in my head I was still talking to people and acting to people as if I was in jail. Because my head was still in there, and I was only out a year, and my head didn't really change. And then I was back in jail again. I stopped trafficking steroids. The simple fact the police They knew how I was Even though I was arrested in Spain, the British authorities, They were on my case. And now I, when I came out of jail, I got involved in heavier crime. I got involved with cocaine. I got involved with prostitution with these people I was a gang in Gateshead in Newcastle. They were a heavy firm, and they were controlling the whole area. So I gave the steroids a miss and I moved on to that, which was a mistake as well. I got seven years for blackmail; and controlling prostitution. The seven years I was This was in HMP Durham. My parole date was 3 1/2 years. It went to over my parole because I didn't think I But then there was a bit of and they decided to let a few people out, and I was one of them The comparison between Spanish prisons and UK prisons is massive. There's no health and There's no rehabilitation, and sentencing there is mad. When I was told my body was of a 45-year-old at 28, it was a shock to the system. But to be honest with It was like a -- I couldn't stop. I didn't want to go smaller. But what made me stop So it was after that that it all sank in, the comedown off the steroids, the comedown off all the drugs. My head felt right. &quot;OK, I was doing it wrong. This But it was jail. And the fact that I couldn't get a hold of the steroids in Otherwise, I don't think I've had my tests done, my liver, my bones, my arthritis, all been checked and I was just, like, on this Importing, importing, importing, making money, money, bam, bam, bam. And I forgot about Was it worth it? Well, no. No, no, no. Nothing -- none of that is worth losing family and going to jail and losing your money. I do regret what I did and what I've lost. Steroids are more mainstream now. This is because it's more acceptable now. Social media. Influencers. All these actors are in good shape. They all look the part. Everybody wants to look the But where do they get them You have to go to a legal supplier. So importation is not because things are just It's getting made in England. I believe there should be and that's his job. He's got a pharmacy You can go and you can buy and you can get advice The police could invest Put, like, a new agency involved. Maybe a branch out of the maybe to have a separate agency, where it concentrates on the illegal, and I'm sure you could because I could find them easy enough. In the UK, steroids is not really They don't see it as a major drama. So the law enforcement, resources, get more try to even upgrade it to class B. But then, I don't think that because people will still take it. So if you up it for it, why do you want to send people to jail if all they're trying to do is just make themselves look a bit better? I don't think it's a I now have a CBD company, Alpha CBD. That's been going well. And so I've been helping out I've wrote two books, which was the first book, which was about the steroid and &quot;Self-Made, Dues Paid&quot; is my second book I wrote now. That's my life story from and it goes up until the to 2002. Hi, I'm a producer on &quot;How Crime Works.&quot; If you've enjoyed this and comment below with topics