Today I'd like to introduce you to a very It makes 120 horsepower from only 500 cc it's called INNengine as in &quot;innovation engine&quot; and has already been manufactured and In this video we'll take an in-depth look at this engine. benefits, drawbacks and its potential and we will First up, let's see how this little thing works and to understand that we must observe the anatomy. Now piston arrangement. We do not have a cylinder head this little complex shaped wavy thing. I'm going appropriate word for it. Now what happens is that surface of the wavy thing. As the combustion force As the rollers go down the slope they force connected via a common shaft and the forces of two wavy things and through the shaft resulting So in theory we can connect a drivetrain well-balanced and lightweight four-wheel drive ends because this engine does not have a cylinder a cam-belt or cam-chain at one end of the engine So how do we allow air in and out of the engine if conventional two-stroke engines do. We use intake by the pistons as the engine operates letting In the middle between the pistons we also have a fuel air-fuel mixture. As combustion pressure builds As the pistons move they uncover the intake and engine deal with intake and four pistons on the So how do we prevent exhaust gases from escaping out We do this just like we do it in a traditional both the intake and exhaust valves are open at the gets uncovered first which allows the pressurized combustion chamber. Since they are pressurized they This vacuum is at a lower pressure than the is at atmospheric pressure, which means that the and fills it with fresh air. The upward sloped part and so they close off the intake and exhaust The injector adds fuel and soon we have chamber and the process starts once again. The the pistons are forced down, they rotate the wavy is a very simple engine without cams or valves do not have intake valves we also do not have the direct injection only engines which means that we drawbacks, which is definitely a good thing. However, something in all of this that just doesn't add up. Do This is not a 1 stroke engine. Let's observe. Here We have combustion which then overlaps beginning which does intake, which then overlaps to do combustion and exhaust and then one more stroke Not one. This is a two stroke engine. I really don't thing is nonsense because a one stroke engine, certainly is not a one stroke engine and I don't engine that was ever made and I doubt it will be Anyways, although INNengine does call their design pretty honest in a comment response in one of their view it is certainly a two-stroke engine&quot; So they it a 2 stroke we found was that people would the mixture which it doesn't or that the exhaust not or that it could only deliver so much power. In and we didn't come up with one stroke tag it was kept it because it sent the right message in terms was catchy. Thanks&quot;. So a one stroke it is not. What all the negatives of a conventional two-stroke The oil is sealed away from the combustion chamber the one stroke word gimmick thing. Now the opposed engine and this is because in a non-opposed When combustion occurs the energy of turned into motion, useful work, torque. However, It simply absorbs the energy of combustion as we have pistons both on top and below or if you that more combustion energy gets to be absorbed, which makes opposed designs more efficient than A big advantage of the INNengine design is that it can have And this is because the two wavy things, not fixed in position in relation to each other. grooves and moving the wavy things along the relation to each other. So for example if we and the wavy things in this position then which is let's say 12 to 1. Now if we rotate the top dead center, in the same position, but we get down the bore, this gives us a reduced compression do is that in theory we could combine this with a boost at high RPM for a very high power output improved efficiency and responsiveness off boost. But wait, there's more! The in engine balance out of the box. as you can see we have an primary piston forces. they cancel each other also as you have probably noticed we do not have a secondary balance. Now if you want to know more links in the description and in the video corner, So if it has direct injection without direct perfect balance then we must ask the obvious Well the logic of this statement &quot;If it And that's because I'm sure that long ago a horse &quot;if horses were so good we would already Carl Benz &quot;well if your cars were so good we in a car told to somebody pitching an airplane be flying through the sky&quot;. Things tend to not start existing and become used. Most of the things made our lives much easier were seen as weird &quot;A bird in the hand is worth two in the bush&quot; is a nice we would also be stuck in the Stone Age smashing and experiments have to be made and different Another very important reason why most novel success is because the conventional rod and piston That makes it very much immune to replacement. It is and development. I'm sure that if we spent the or whatever, and then if somebody came today as something novel many people would probably All that being said the conventional engine and that advantage is torque. That's because of space as it's rotating but the crankshaft is then magnifies the forces generated by combustion torque output from conventional engines even at will see that there is no significant leverage arrangement where pistons act on little lot of tiny little torque bursts so this for the entire engine and indeed on their website 150 Newton Meters of torque which is impressive. this peak torque occurs? However based on simple torque occurs very high in rev range and that low we have to do is observe a single cylinder 600cc 600cc motorcycle engine. In the single cylinder power stroke creates a pretty significant burst low RPM. In the four cylinder we have tiny little we get a lot of tiny little torque bursts and we bursts to generate some meaningful torque. motorcycle engine usually has pretty weak low RPM torque usually very high in the rev range. Now you if we have eight pistons and absolutely minuscule us to my gripe with the INNengine. I honestly It also feels like there's genuine passion even big potential for this engine in certain being presented as something that it is not. The of the engine and the driving around with the in the car, someone working on the engine and then we are given some specs: 500cc, 120 horsepower, And then in the description we are told this: &quot;With stroke engine was able to move push the Mazda with atmospheric pressure, no turbo, just pure power in pressure, sure, I would believe that, if there right there in the engine bay feeding compressed turbo or a supercharger, it is forced induction Of course there's no official explanation for this, struggled with the car without the help of forced could easily make 120 horsepower with the help So it really doesn't feel like the engine has any And the other issue I have with the video is full throttle acceleration, not to mention from a and NB Mazda MX-5 makes anywhere, I believe from and the generation. Although it's not the healthy acceleration from a standstill and As we already explained however we never really footage of full throttle acceleration from the torque and where does this engine generate even course all the one stroke stuff but what's even even further, and they claim that their engine per cylinder than a two-stroke engine and four they also add how &quot;Our combustion chamber All of this is very much misleading and that's piston engine against one cylinder one piston Once we equalize the number of cylinders the The INNengine fires every 180 firing interval as a conventional four-cylinder combustion in two combustion chambers occurring combustion events in one combustion chamber. I have they're counting the whole engine as one single But what's important is that we still have one of engine rotation, the same as a conventional we must not forget is that here we have eight piston ring friction equivalent of a conventional V8. from the opposed piston design are negated by the Another slightly silly claim INNengine makes is with their basically just half of their opposed piston design. although they call this a one-stroke engine as pre-mix and all. And this engine makes INNengine claims that this is twice the power This is not true. There are many conventional two-stroke more power than this. I personally owned and TZR125, it was a two-stroke engine and it made 28 engine certainly did not weigh 5 kilos like the on promoting: The very low weight and the compact stroke stuff. But what's nice is that INNengine is section of their website. Here the one stroke meant to be a range extender. It's also great for and very lightweight. It's also great in Maritime for boats and to power hydraulic equipment on and very compact. And also because the engine doesn't matter, it is going to work equally well, so and you can do any sort of flying maneuvers this engine installed. And there's also plans for this it becomes very obvious that the engine It's simply meant to be a contender in certain stuff and the installation in the Mazda MX-5 look publicity stunts, and personally I feel like really having more strokes or being more powerful and probably isn't and doing this takes away from from the true benefits which are simplicity,