The deep-sea is still one of With creepy fascinating and largely But did you know that there are also unassuming Flying around on the seabed four bunch of rocky nodules. They definitely don't look spectacular These clumps, that kind of just look like polymetallic or manganese nodules. And they could save the future of But harvesting them could also destroy One of the few places left untouched on earth. So, what are these precious rocks and should we bring them up to the surface? Cobalt, copper, and nickel are metals you And while it might seem like these they're actually much rarer We rely on them for batteries, smartphones, and other types of power storage. The extractable amount of copper, Some of these resources might This is especially the case with cobalt. The worldwide demand for it is estimated to double by 2026. Most of the cobalt reserves are based in Congo and Australia, and they're often mined under And this is where the polymetallic nodules According to estimates, they contain 230 million tons of copper and The nodules are lying around here, here and here in pretty big amounts at the bottom of the sea It took them extremely long to grow that is not at all well explored yet. Polymetallic nodules need a good as well as a stable flow How exactly those nodules grow But to put it really simply - it starts with very small organic particles Over millions of years metallic compounds, those particles and grow about until they're potato or even cauliflower-sized. &quot;The first findings of polymetallic nodules were That's been a long long time and they've where they took sediment samples.&quot; Matthias Haeckel is part of the MiningImpact Project which assesses collectors and &quot;And the interest [for] in economics started these metals are in there and that's where So, it's not only scientists who are A lot of companies are just waiting to explore Deep-sea mining advocates say is more sustainable than onshore mining. and no mining galleries have to be built. Instead one could just fish Theoretically... But one of the problems engineers are facing No machines have been able to harvest the YET! Right now they're testing machines that Different companies, national agencies and these polymetallic nodules by that might be able and allowed The Belgian Deme Group, for example, and has already started testing it. We requested an interview The biggest concern is the impact this because it's not just picking up nodules So, who makes the rules that It's a UN organization called the In 1994 the EU and 167 countries that regulates deep-sea mining. It's based on the convention on the law can only exploit an area within It underlines that the world's oceans So far the seabed authority has given out 19 of them specifically for mining The license holders pay a fee of to explore deep-sea mining in a certain area. Countries but also associations, can apply for such an The Indian, South Korean, as well as Chinese and UK associations, Tanja Stratmann is another researcher She and her team have discovered that the nodules &quot;We saw that a lot of these manganese So you have glass sponges that look So you have long stalks and then And they really grow attached to these So here is the dilemma: while critics worry proponents say climate change and the need is an urgent reason to press ahead &quot;We're talking about thousands of The main impact is that in these areas the top 5 to 10 centimeters of the deep sea, Together with the fauna. And any kind of recolonization or recovery will take hundreds to thousands of years.&quot; Many deep-sea microorganisms and animals could Even just scientific exploration has left its mark. &quot;We figured out that after more than that were analyzed didn't recover fully. that might recover that is independent will need decades to centuries, The mining could even disrupt the So, is there any way to make &quot;That is not sustainable [Very] As simple as that.&quot; &quot;I think, we can already make up our mind as a society, But if we shouldn't be touching how can we get enough of the metals First, we can reuse what we already have and other devices. Several companies are already Batteries could become Watch how this could work in our video And we can reduce our consumption these precious metals much longer! What do you think about deep-sea mining? Let us know in the comments and