Welcome to Good Mythical More. Who can make the most mac and cheese using all half of them as chosen by a lottery, a tournament? Uh, I don't know, A draft. A draft. A draft. A draft. Real quick though, uh, cause lot of time on this cause We got to give our quarterly uh, baby, baby space camp. Yep. Yep. Um, a lot of babies go, well, Actually. Yeah. Yeah. We, uh. Cause it's in space. Let's just, can I just a lot of Amber Alerts. Yep. And what, and that's not baby's names was Amber. Right. It's because they Yeah, right. In space. Yeah, yeah, but I don't orbit, you know, I mean gonna come back from the I don't know, we're So maybe people will just -- - And so they'll forget about the people -- back as adults, but then all I didn't want to talk about it. Jordan, come in here. Bail us out of this. Thank God I'm here. What you were talking Yeah. Yep. Make us happy with Yes, we're doing a loaded Yes, and you are the judge. I am, as always. I'm the judge. And I can't wait. How you been? I won last time, so How have you been? Yeah, thank you for caring. Um, I've been good. I've been good, you It's, I'm glad I hate the heat. Yeah, look at us, talking we got all this mac Well, what's wrong with that? The weather, I mean, It's life changing. Look at me, wearing a sweater. You know? Cozy sweaters. Long sleeve shirts. Yeah. It feels like you're What's going on Well, I'm kind of anxious He's upset about Baby Space Camp. Sure. I want to make some Okay. Yeah. The funnest part is That's your favorite part? Yeah. What's your favorite part? Uh, the joy on your face. After you taste it? Just because of the God, you're so sweet. Whether I win or lose, It's not even about the It seems like that's It's about the way That's so sweet. Alright, let's get to it. Okay. Did they put a It seemed like it would Ad break. I'm going to start -- First of all, can I just ingredients, there's so many Yes. Yes. And I just feel like, like I gotta start with Great. You know, like, So, now what is this Sporked has picked here? This is, and I'm going to to say it, Peterson's? Yeah, Peterson's bacon. Good, that makes more And they may, it's so best or something? It's crunchy, it's salty, Oh. Oh, they're already crumbles? I think so. Yeah, this is, this is Nice, salty. Smoky, but not too much. So it's a it's a bacon I think I don't know someone I didn't see Yeah, it's think it's bacon crumbled It's regular bacon. Yeah regular bacon crumbled - It's been crumbled so that -- No. Crumbled to go on to the mac - See, the other meat All right, how we have We have popcorn shrimp. We have vegan salami? You got a lot of choices. Oh my goodness. What am I gonna, There's so much. I personally am I think that's a That is interesting. I'm gonna go there. You're right, Stevie. Stevie manipulating. Well, also, I know that Yeah. So, am I right in minced garlic in a jar? It's jarred garlic. Yeah, yeah. It's so easy. I use it a lot. It's a container. I know that real chefs but mincing garlic Who has the time? And I think it depends on And some people love it. Some people prefer I don't, but some people do. Oops, I'm sorry. I led you astray. No, no, no. It's good. I still like it. And it's good to go ahead way I can mix it throughout. Are you asking What is the gelatinous stuff? Goo? Stuff? I don't know. It's like garlic Yeah, it's a goo. It's like That's great link. That's great. I'm, I'm mixing Garlic mac and That's great. - Now again Get that outta here. - I'm doing what I called -- - Not that you have -- - I know you don't have any but -- I have some -- I don't have warts. - I'm doing -- Kind of a defensive technique. A proactive strategy. Because regardless of what I know that one way to Yes, absolutely. So I would love Smart, and I've brought we all love this hot sauce. Yeah, oh yeah, this No, we also love the is our favorite sriracha. Oh yeah, that's nice. And you gonna put it on there? He's gonna put You gonna put it on there now? Sure. Interesting. Um. Yeah, that's gonna be good. I like the way we do this I'm at like a sushi omakase little things as you prepare That is so generous. That's funny. This is just like that experience in Japan. Right! I know, I don't think you're you'll really like these Canned peas. Yeah, I'm not My favorite vegetable. - I love canned peas so much. Canned peas are your They're a really They're better than fresh. What about frozen? You just add some green The color is beautiful What about frozen? - Not as good. Frozen tastes like fresh for you, but canned have It's the mush that They're my favorite. I love canned peas. So you're really I'm gonna take it in Okay. Okay. I'm gonna go with the Let's do it. That is a nice crunch there. Can I be vulnerable Yeah. I feel like my bangs are Uh. Can you fix them? I really, I think it's That is better. I feel like that is better. I knew you could do that. You fluffed them. You fluffed them. Yeah. Supposedly they just Good. You don't need a hard, you No, I didn't need a comb, You don't need Link does have a lot of You don't want to, right, You don't want to You're gonna get Trouble for people Googling what a fluffer is. Yeah, they are. Is it my go now? Uh huh, yeah. Um, you know what? You might say, Well, should he go with corn? I might say that! Hey, who knows? I haven't said anything yet. But I'm not gonna do that. You might say. Okay. You might say, He went with Turkey chili. This is gonna, if I get it's gonna become a I don't know. Pasta in it. I guess it depends on Yeah, but it would It's so funny to me that to ask me how I was doing And you're taking so long to pick. That's right. That's because I knew I was like, we never Rhett was like, how are you? Like, there's no time. I need to talk about chili. Well, in fairness, I mean, it was just weather talk. Yeah, in fairness. Don't stand up for him. Yeah, what are What are you going to do next? You two are best friends I'm hurting big time already. Why? Because I don't know Okay. And I need to wait Classic problem of a fluffer. You know what I'm going to do? Uh, Just the one I'm going to take the Cajun to wait to put that on. But I am interested Cause I, look at It's a delicious And I'll tell you what, seasoning I grew up with. And I was skeptical. Like an Old Bay? No. Old Bay? Old Bay? Isn't Old Bay a Jordan's from Louisiana, man. Isn't Old Bay, like, Yeah, that's a It's crab seasoning. It's like seafood. It's like, yeah, it's like That's not Cajun seasoning. I'm thinking, like, Or, like, Slappy Mama. Gotcha. So I was skeptical. I'd never heard of this, What do you like? I like it. I think the seasoning And I think it's going to be I also think this is huge, you is so far, this is very mac and cheese at home. I put Cajun seasoning on But mine are Whoa! Alright, now I'm I'm saving my I actually think that palette, or the, what is, that I'm going for? Yeah. I actually think that choice against butter. I love that. I'll take some canned corn. I'm glad you want the corn. Why? Cause, I didn't want to get You see the color scheme? Why? Yellow, brown, corn. Yellow, brown, orange. It's just like, everything Now that I have tasted this can, I now, It's opened Okay. And I'm going with Delish! Isn't that where you where your first job as a Protein door. Yeah. Yeah. It's one of my favorite films. So these are um, These are um, Yeah, you the oven, I'll tell you the exact brand. Oh, they're Fremont A lot of their fish Nice. They're crispy. They're crunchy. That's a good taste. Easy. It's nice. And I love a popcorn shrimp. I'll throw a few, a Oh, gimme your thing link The big time of year in my house growing up we're not Catholic, that's Oh yeah. That was like a big time. Yeah. Basically people I don't know you like it. No, you don't celebrate Lent, uh, you're along for the ride. That's, that's, We were Baptists. I feel like you celebrate Right, yeah. During the time of Lent. Uh huh. Okay, yeah. Baptist. What were you, also Baptist? Yeah, also Baptist. Wow. Listen, we were so sheltered I got my first job as an That's crazy. One of the engineers On Ash Wednesday, and he had and I literally had like gonna tell him that forehead? Am I gonna tell I don't know what it is I thing on his forehead. I was that unfamiliar. You got a black mark on You thought he had Right. I was like, what did you Like that's how ignorant I was. - What kind of engineering did you do? Why do you say I'm so skeptical! Engineer?! Civil! The nice one. What did you do? Industrial engineering. Both of you did engineering? For how long? Couple years. Two years? That makes more sense. We didn't last. I'm just surprised. I don't know anything Is it my go? No, no, it's mine. Yeah, because you I am also opening my protein Wow. Mmm. Okay. You thought you could do Not so fast. Whoa. And look, it's nicely sliced. Tiny little cuts. These are the Tyson Oh. They're really good. Mmm. - I am going to -- If I don't screw it Put your thing over there, there for I'm gonna swoop Before you start Love ranch. Cause I think And this is a good ranch. The first time we did a ranch And people were so mad we had to like special state to have it sent here. Ooh! Oh, yeah, that's good. It's gonna be good I'm feeling, I'm I wish I could I know. I can't. Now we gotta go Things are getting scary. Olives, mustard, Vegan salami. Okay. Wow. Give me that turkey chili. Nice! I think that compliments what you're doing. You got corn, you know. The cheetos. I'm in the south, I'm still Yes, absolutely. Of course it's um, stagg chili. Yes. Which we love. But this is smart because trip through the southwest. Oh yeah, I knew that. So this is kind of Yeah, I wanted you to have a I love that. What was it, did you have Here. To get back, huh? Yes. Did you go through Yes. I flew to Dallas, met a Dallas, Amarillo, Albuquerque, I've heard good I love it. You recommend? Absolutely. Sedona's a bit small and Yes. Santa Fe has more Lots of good food. The Georgia O'Keeffe Museum. Who's that? Are you serious? Is that a cowboy? That's so Really? Georgia O'Keeffe is like female artists of all time. She really liked drawing. And she's a lesbian. Oh, really? The best thing on Well, I'm not saying I I just love all lesbians. Not enough. You don't know Apparently not. You need to take a class. A lesbian class. Some kind of gender I don't know. Yeah. Right? Like everybody else knew kind of violently nodding. Everybody knows Like literally Yeah. She's the one That's literally And he knows he's Okay. Now he's trying Um, am I going, I Okay. No matter what. Well, we'll see about that. You know what? You know who Georgia O'Keeffe is. Yes. Screw it. Screw it. Describe something she's made. Well, she likes, she's, she's the best thing on earth. Yeah, she draws flowers Yeah. Really, is that right? Yeah, I'm a big fan because Me as well. That's interesting. What's going on with you? I'll look into that. I'm just, I'm not, I really know some things. What do you want here? Mustard. I don't really That's the follow up to the don't really know some things. I don't really know lesbian flag on it. Because it doesn't Like I don't really Like I don't know how to arrangement of words. Hey. It's not I really don't know really know some things. And I don't really But I don't feel bad about Right, cause you know what? You know what? It gives you more to learn. It gives me That's a nice way to very generous to you. Yep, if I knew it all, That's right. Today's episode is very winky. Well, Link. What am I going I know something. You haven't put I know something. I know because I'm trying I know. Oh man, I, you know what? - Olives and salami. Are these black olives? Hmm. I feel like you have to the most sense for you Here's the thing, I know that. Uh, but I actually think like the perfect end to That's what I'm saying. Almost without a doubt. Out error. Like vegan salami. I'm doing the olives. Okay. I'm doing the olives. So your desire to make an stronger than your desire Well it's not like me in a pretty place. I'm a good boy. Well the vegan salami's good. We like it. It's beautiful like this. Wow. It's really, I don't know behave in here though. Okay. I mean, maybe I'll I'm going to roll one up in to be like a, it's going where it's like, you might and, um, you know, have a Okay. All right. So the thing that I'm I'm actually going pretty, like I have more faith in I'm, no I'm confident. Okay, well excuse me. I just don't want to go, this mustard though? I think the mustard. You should shake it, yeah. Kroger mustard, Yes, shockingly, this is We had all the brands We had all the fancy brands. This Kroger mustard is so But I have a lot Ooh, kind of just Yep. I have a... Are you gonna mix it? Okay. Yeah, I'm gonna mix it. This is becoming like Okay. Macaroni pasta salad. With a little bit of Some of these in there. That goes And then I just... Like a lettuce wrap? Like you would, you'd be pick that up and bite it. Okay, it just gives you - What do you cook at home? if you were to cook dinner? This is pretty much playing Got it. Okay. Like that's I'm very very happy with I'm gonna give you a fresh new spoon. Is it time? Yeah, and you can construct to do pretty even distribution Now, I have a question. Are you with a fork or with a spoon? And did you intentionally on your preference? Yeah, I think Okay. Do you want to to change it to spoon? um I think I want you to have able to stab some mac and Great. I like fork. So good job both of you with This smells delicious Wow Look I'm very excited for this. Mmm. It seems crunchy. Orangey. Wow. I mean, it's delicious. The chili goes so well The black olives add That Cheeto crunch It's very good. So, uh, how are you? Me? Yeah, how've you been? I'm fine, thank Anything else before So it's um, it's a Cajun Garden? Shrimp... Whose garden? Uh, that's what I call the Got it. Okay. I love the salami cigarette, they call that Yep, yep, that's a good bite there And then, yeah, taste that on it's own I would have, I would of this and then maybe But then it's not incorporated Right. Every bite has to have Yeah. I don't, I don't, I don't be the requirement for it It was so confusing. I can't even remember I didn't taste it. Now you're making a I'm making a little taco. Okay. That Cajun -- My body's trying to Yeah. Um, okay. Cajun seasoning with the um, Very good. I even think the ranch. And the peas. And the peas. And the ranch. All that works. I think you did the mustard. I mean, I had to try I had to try to Mm hmm. I don't agree with that. Yeah, cause if you move, stuffed mac and cheese People have done this? Yeah, like loaded You put chicken nuggets. Like at home? Yeah. People just like rake It's a really good, Yeah. I've never done that. I never, I never knew I think, here's the thing. This tastes good. And a lot of elements of I think the Cajun seasoning peas in the pasta with Good. That's why that's together. And the garlic. Don't forget. Oh, and the jarlic. Thank you, Stevie. A little bit of jarlic. Yep. I think if the mustard was added a little bit of tangy You feel like, you feel like Uh, if you had added a Yeah, yeah, yeah. Do you want me to, do Oh, yeah, I do want to try it. Mix it in a little, try it. And then I think if you had there were little salami could have been nice. But eating an entire piece slathered in mustard, like a rest of the mac and cheese? Well, hard. Yeah. I left it up to you though. In what way? How much you can mix in. Oh, okay. Clearly, it's um, it I guess, well... I understand. Okay. I understand. I'm okay with that. I just feel like this is Like I feel like every time put this on the side or dollop of it over here, but dollop that has that thing. You know what I mean? I have to, to be fair eat your whole thing. I understand. This is how you're playing. So next time I'm Mix it all in. But I'm not playing That's just the rules of do because I work here. It's very serious. Do you know what I'm saying? It's very serious. I think it's Okay, well I guess, let's guys talk about that. Do we want to format I don't think everything I mean. Well let's think Okay, the like, That needed to be all Sure. Um, we've done chili Yeah. This is how I would make it. I'm just doing it I think, I'm willing to agree side ingredient, a garnish. But I believe that it is eaten at the same time, you basically like you have to to follow it with a garnish garnish and then eat the bite Whether it's the beginning Oh All right. I'll take what I can get. That's kind of what I did. - Okay, great - No, I liked it, I -- Maybe I've won. After all that, maybe I won. So, kind of number one for me That's kind of the number for me when I come and between the two of you. Right, right. - So I try to be clear on what the rules are... of the game so I Okay. Things are heated, I'm gonna take one more Right, right, right. You gotta, so you can be sure. Just so I can be sure. Right. This is... What? What? I think this is Is there anything else you Like what? Chop all that up? I can't do that. I have no clue Is there, I'm just I want you to chase it I want you to feel good Just like the first time. And I want you to also not and not feel mad at me. Yeah, I mean... No, Why would I be mad? Just a little disappointed. Everybody hated that. Everybody hated that. Nobody wants this. Nobody wants this -- Just so you know. Come on. Let's take it back. I never hold your decisions. Let's take it back. I never hold your Thank you. We used to be so close. Let's take it back. I know, we gotta go back. What's going on? I just don't, I feel like I'm It seems like only yesterday hands in each other's mouths. That's what I'm saying! Let's kiss, let's What needs to happen? Well, first of all, I think the ball's Okay. Mmm, alright. It's a tie! Um, I think both are And, um, sometimes you have something that's been done. Yeah, yeah, yeah. And, I feel like you and I Yeah, I understand. I don't feel like our bond or anything, so. You're welcome. And I want you to feel good in my heart for you genuinely. I feel a moral victory with a tie. Good. All right, you've This is beautiful, I