I die with a joyful heart, in the knowledge and of a contribution This war will not come to an end with the extermination Instead, it will see I do not play at war. I shall not allow myself With iron will, That is my mission. Since the end of the First World War, the Germans have been living with the consequences Almost half of the workforce One of them is labourer Hans Bakker: Thousands of factories closed their doors. Many honest German All of us yearned for better times. Like many, I've lost all my possessions. So I have drawn The National Socialists, the Nazis, On September the 15th, 1934, at Buckeberg, three-quarters of a million Germans, Adolf Hitler. The misery of our people Unemployment must be overcome. People of Germany. May God Almighty Schoolteacher Louise Solmitz: A thrill shot through the crowd. The Fuhrer is coming. The excitement of the moment, So many worship him as their Savior, the Redeemer from unbearable poverty. It is our task to make certain that the pages in German history are torn in half. From neat misery Hitler's rise to power Jewish doctor Hertha Nathorff: Hitler as chancellor. Everyone is full of it, Many are filled with happiness. Some have worry written in their faces. However, all are united in the words: Hitler gradually transforms Unemployment is almost eliminated, and workers are even given heavily subsidized by the state. Hans Wieners: Who would have thought a German worker would one day be able We will all return to Germany and be able to work doubly hard At home in Germany, the Nazis stamp out The police and courts All power is concentrated in Adolf Hitler. Not everyone of you can see me. Yet I feel you, and you feel me. The miracle of our age Germany's fortune, September 1935. Hitler announces new laws into second-class citizens. Children are given new textbooks You can most easily It looks like the number six. His lips are usually puffy. You can tell by his eyes If you have a good nose, Any opposition to Hitler Tens of thousands are imprisoned. Journalist Stefan Laurent I am writing in cell number 24. Outside, a new Germany is being created. Many millions are rejoicing. Hitler is promising everyone I think that when they wake they will find that they have been led August 1st, 1936. Adolf Hitler arrives to open Hitler is determined these games will be Jewish professor Victor Klemperer: I find the Olympics so odious. The chanted slogans Jew-baiting, warlike sentiments. Everything offensive The attention of our guests is repeatedly drawn to how peacefully and pleasantly things are proceeding here. By the end of the games, It is a personal triumph for Hitler. In 1940, the Olympic Games but thereafter, for all time to come. Three weeks after the Olympic Games, Hitler welcomes David Lloyd George, to the Berghof, his mountain home At Hitler's side is his interpreter, Hitler was delighted with this visit We sat at a table near the window. He began to speak with excitement of his experiences as a humble soldier &quot;I often faced the English&quot;, he said. Lloyd George is so impressed by Hitler, he publishes his thoughts The idea of a Germany intimidating Europe forms no part of Hitler's new vision. The Germans have definitely never to quarrel with us again. As Lloyd George leaves, Hitler presents a secret memo The world is moving Making the German army If this does not happen, We must be ready July the 18th, 1937, Adolf Hitler's personal pilot accompanies him to a pageant to celebrate 2,000 years Bauer is permitted to film Fourteen year old Ingeborg Weber: The four years the Fuhrer asked for What great things he has achieved. The communists There is no unemployment. The Fuhrer has given us back For the past six years, Adolf Hitler has kept a secret Hidden away from all is his mistress, Eva Braun. The weather is so wonderful, and I, the mistress am sitting here and gazing at the sun. With a camera given to her by Hitler, Eva Braun films his private life. I'm so terribly happy and I pray He has had a head full of politics but surely it is time he relaxed a little. Only members of Hitler's inner circle One of them is Hitler's close friend, Never have I met a person Even towards Eva, he is never Hitler and Eva avoid anything that might suggest Only to go upstairs to the bedrooms Out of sympathy, who was so deeply attached to Hitler. 25 year old Eva When Hitler provides Eva her father writes a letter. Your Excellency, I find myself of having to express to you my distress. I believe that parent supervision until they get married, This is my code of honor. Please advise her to return to her family. Yours very respectfully, Fritz Braun. Eva intercepts the letter. It will never reach the Fuhrer. Eva always appears happy, the center of attention. However, the only surviving fragments reveal a different story. When he says he loves me, it only means he loves me Like his promises, which he never keeps. I am utterly miserable. I shall go out Then I won't think about it so much. Eva has already made but Hitler still refuses to marry her. A highly intelligent man should take a primitive and stupid woman. Imagine if I had a woman In my leisure time, I want to have peace. I could never marry. It's the same with a movie actor. When he marries, he loses a certain something Then, he is no longer their idol. September 28th, 1937. The people of Berlin from Italian dictator Benito Mussolini. Hitler is building We do not intend, in rearming Germany, to create an instrument On the contrary, exclusively for defense Hitler parades his new army Accompanying the two dictators I had ample opportunity Hitler's voice was rough and often hoarse. Sometimes his eyes blazed. His laugh always had a flavor of sarcasm. There was an interesting ceremony an honorary corporal Hitler has also signed a pact with Japan. With his new axis of power in place, he is ready to make his next move. March the 12th, 1938. Hitler announces Born in Austria, Hitler has always dreamt into a Greater German Reich. Carl Toussaint is a soldier We've been told German troops God save Austria. Everywhere there are people on the streets and swastika flags. Germany has apparently saved us Now everyone In the town of Dornbirn, 10,000 people celebrate I believe that it was God's will to send the boy from here into Germany. To raise him to be leader. To return his homeland to the Reich. For me, Within weeks, the Jews of Vienna are feeling Twenty-four year old Jewish student The Nazis are putting up signs warning people not to buy there. Anybody who resists is beaten up, killed or taken away Everyone around us has gone mad. They were born hating us. Raised hating us. Now the veneer of civilization which had protected us from the hatred High in the Bavarian Alps, Hitler is already planning The diary of Nazi propaganda chief Now comes Czechoslovakia. The Fuhrer is wonderful, a true genius. He sits for hours over the map and broods. The Fuhrer is pleased All the more will they be torn They haven't the slightest idea Poor fools. Hitler claims that ethnic Germans living in the Czechoslovak province are being oppressed. German newspapers of violence and rape. Reports of German troop movements convinced the western allies, that this distant border dispute During the annual Nazi Party rally, the news is announced that have broken down. When Hitler begins his closing speech, the whole world is listening. I demand the right of self-determination for the 3.5 million Sudeten Germans. They themselves have a right I demand that the oppression Two weeks later, Czechoslovakia's fate is sealed, when Hitler meets British Prime Minister The agreement signed last night, is symbolic never to go to war with one another again. I believe it is peace for our time. Hitler's troops are allowed without a shot being fired. I have made sacrifices, and I have shown great restraint. It is the last territorial demand June the 12th, 1939. Adolf Hitler visits his childhood home, the small Austrian village of Fischlham. Son of a local customs officer, Hitler lays flowers on his parent's grave, and then visits his old school. It was here My association with the rougher boys, made me the very opposite Even then, in violent arguments Woods and meadows Hitler is now 50 years old. On his birthday, My children look upon the Fuhrer as he who gives the orders for everything. To them, Schoolchildren are even being taught Adolf Hitler is our savior, our hero. He is the noblest being For Hitler we live, for Hitler we die. Our Hitler rules a brave new world. All over Germany, thousands of new recruits swear allegiance to their Fuhrer. Hitler's adjutant, The Fuhrer says that the solution It is a question of expanding in the east. No other openings can be seen in Europe. We are left with no alternative at the first opportunity. This time, Britain and France warn Hitler, if he attacks Poland, Nazi propaganda chief Joseph Goebbels: We know for sure and too cowardly to get in our way. The Fuhrer says that Britain now has the most Believe me, just like the last time. A war of nerves, Hitler must remove one vital threat, before he can launch his attack on Poland. He sends a secret telegram Herr Stalin. The tension between Germany A crisis may arise any day. It is desirable to enter I should be glad Adolf Hitler. Forty-eight hours later, Stalin agrees More than two million men No one will ever again have the confidence All depends on me. Our enemies have leaders I saw them in Munich. They are little worms. Close your hearts to pity. Act brutally. When starting a war, but victory. Early on the morning the German army invades Poland. The news is broadcast throughout Germany by Adolf Hitler himself. Verna Hartz is in Berlin: The streets are empty There are no cheering people, such as we had at the start War has broken out quietly, as if under a cloud. Two days later, Britain and France declare war on Germany. Adolf Hitler has started A captured airfield The Nazi invasion is only three weeks old, but already the Poles are facing defeat. A jubilant Hitler Endless columns of the Polish army have become prisoners of war. Whatever remains must surrender and lay down its arms, As part of the secret pact with Stalin, the Red Army invades eastern Poland. When the Poles still refused to surrender, the city of Warsaw is devastated. Panzergrenadier, Gerhard Meyer: We encountered People are leaving town. Our artillery has had a field day. Everything has collapsed. There are people watching us with hatred. Hitler's defeat of Poland As a nation, Poland ceases to exist. Hitler hopes will serve as a warning He makes them an offer of peace. When it is dismissed, he is enraged. Joseph Goebbels: The Fuhrer believes England England's power is now simply a myth, not a reality any longer. All the more reason Before then, May the 10th, 1940. Hitler launches Blitzkrieg in the west. He catches the allies Private Hans Gothard: My darling wife. How can I start From all sides, we can feel The thunder of artillery never ceases, and we just follow its echo. In just two weeks, the German Army has the allies on the run. At Dunkerque, more than 340,000 men are forced to abandon France. Peter Soupf is one of the first It is hard to describe Imagine a picture Weapons and guns, and lots of vehicles and tanks. It is the fall of Dunkerque. The whole of the Belgian With the British Army beaten, France is now alone. Hans Bauer, Hitler's pilot, films the Fuhrer's triumphal arrival Soldiers of the Western Front, you have not disappointed me. The most daring plan thanks to your unequaled valor. Our victory shall teach June 22nd, 1940. The French formally surrender. Yet for some German soldiers, the price of victory is too high. Private Hans Gothard: My darling wife. I am completely shaken inside. Our soldiers When we have won this war, I can imagine all the enthusiastic about our leadership, and the spirit of the troops. I have to say, it is untrue. We have only won due to our wickedness. 6 a.m. June the 28th. Hitler enters the defeated French capital. Within barely six weeks our soldiers Their deeds will enter into history as the most glorious victory of all time. I order flags and bells to ring for seven days. Only Britain now stands in the way A week later, he returns to Berlin. Hundreds of thousands of people He makes yet Mr. Churchill The continuation of this war will end in the complete destruction I know it will be Britain. I direct yet another appeal to reason. Winston Churchill refuses the offer. The battle for Britain has begun. Hitler believes his pilots before an invasion can take place. This time they encounter Messerschmitt pilot Ulrich Steinhilper: I can report I've now shot down but it cost me an excellent pilot. The day before, we had three more losses. My wingman was also caught. There are only twelve left The British have a new engine and we can hardly keep up with it. A week later, Ulrich Steinhilper When Churchill orders Hitler switches his attack If the Royal Air Force then we will drop 200,000 or 400,000, even one million bombs in a single night. If they then increase their attacks, we will obliterate their cities. Hitler's pilots, Over the next nine months, However, The Luftwaffe Bomber pilot Peter Stahl: 16th of October. Our losses amount This is a heavy blow. Tomorrow, that our brave aircrews have inflicted and our own losses were only minimal. Our crews are reaching By May 1941, For the first time, he has met his match. I am not a man I've proved this in my life In Hitler's new eastern provinces, victory has brought a brutal new regime. The Poles have a thin Germanic layer. Below that, is foul material, the Jews. The most disgusting thing imaginable. If Poland had lasted any longer, everything would be lice for him. A clear, masterful hand Hitler requires all Jews They're rounded up The largest ghetto Four hundred thousand Jews Seventeen-year-old Mary Burge: The ghetto is becoming There is a constant stream People are ragged and barefoot. With the tragic eyes Starvation alone I saw a little girl crying. She looked at me &quot;I'm hungry.&quot; Why does no one come to our aid? How long are we going to be kept here? Joseph Goebbels: The Fuhrer prophesied that if the Jews they would experience annihilation. The World War is here. The extermination of the Jews, is the necessary consequence. By the end of 1942, almost 300,000 men, women and children, have been taken from the Warsaw ghetto to the death camp at Treblinka. Hitler's final solution has begun. After his defeat at the hands of the RAF, Hitler has abandoned his plans He prepares orders for a new war. This time against his ally, Chief of Staff, General Halder: The Fuhrer says Britain's last hope will be gone. He believes will be child's play. Some of Hitler's generals Deputy Chief of operations This means that we are bringing That up to now, What we need but there is no one. A war to destroy communism has been Hitler's dream Communism is an enormous danger We must forget any idea This will be a war of annihilation. Dawn, June 22nd, 1941. More than three million German soldiers crossed the border into the Soviet Union. Hitler's treaty with Stalin is over. Operation Barbarossa has begun. Karl Fuchs is a gunner War isn't half as bad as it sounds. The Russians are fleeing everywhere. Yesterday I shot up a Russian tank. If I get another one, We're going to show those Bolshevik pigs I wish you could see me now, We all believe in an early victory. An officer in the 105th Police Battalion, Dear Hannah. The number of prisoners we take Our battalion has to take care of them. We shoot them there and then. When you know that these men it is not such a difficult job Please don't read this to our son. By the war's end, more than three million will have been killed. August 26th, 1941. Hitler visits the Eastern Front. With the Red Army in full retreat, and large parts his plans for an eastern empire What India is for Britain, Russia will be for us. If only I could make what this space means for our future. Let's learn from the British. It is just a matter So that first, we rule it, and finally exploit it. However, Hitler and his generals before the start They are forced to call a halt Then, on December the 7th, Hitler receives the news that his allies, have bombed Pearl Harbor. Adolf Hitler is faced by a new enemy. The United States. No power can shake us. I am Fuhrer of a Reich Churchill and Roosevelt in their plutocratic little world. Behind the scenes, I have my people behind me. With winter over, He is convinced that the Red Army Lieutenant Wilhelm Pruhler: At last, we're in our element again. It is we who are taking the initiative, Neither you nor your beasts can stop us. All about is an ear-splitting, Shot after shot. A never-ending inferno. The land is bathed in a thick fog. We thank God that this war When the German Hitler orders the capture of Stalingrad. His soldiers are now and dangerously exposed. When his generals suggest a retreat, Hitler confronts them. Do you think that you can teach me Where were you in the First World War? I demand from you the same toughness as from the front-line soldiers. Hitler orders no retreat. Three months later, the Red Army surrounds, and traps a quarter of a million On the home front, the people of Germany Some of the families have letters brought out by air. Private Werner Bunnerman: My dear son, I hope that this is the last Christmas The Russians have dealt us a nasty blow. It is now minus 30 degrees here. How nice it must be in warm rooms. Next year Love from your father, Werner. Five weeks later, 90,000 surviving German soldiers 80,000 will die in Soviet captivity. Private Werner Bunnerman is one of them. With Hitler's war even old men and boys for the fatherland. The diary of 15 year old We have replaced the men Soldiers had manned these guns until now. It's very exciting. I like this much more than school. We are now on duty 24 hours a day. We are boys no longer. Hitler's homeland The allies have begun On July the 27th, The firestorm is filmed by Hamburg fireman Hans Brunswick. The fire is like a thunderstorm The heat is unbearable. I see people lying in the street. I tried to help them, but they are already dead. Hamburg streets are littered with bodies, some of them so burnt Some, are reduced to small heaps of ash. In Hamburg alone, Hitler's advisers want him and raise the morale of his people. Minister of Supplies Albert Speer: I tried a few times to persuade Hitler. Goebbels had tried to put over and referred enviously &quot;When I think of the propaganda value Hitler remains hidden away in his command bunker If the German people and ready for sacrifice, that they will not stake they deserve to pass away, and be annihilated by another, If that is the case, Hidden in the forests of eastern Germany, is Hitler's secret headquarters. The Wolf's Lair is a huge complex and underground bunkers. From here, Hitler directs his war. His health is now failing. He has a heart condition and the early signs General Heinz Guderian: Since I last saw Hitler, His back was bent. His hand trembled. His eyes lacked the former luster. He easily lost his temper, and was then unpredictable Hitler's ally, the fascist dictator of Romania, is here to discuss Hitler's adjutant Nicolaus von Below: I had the impression that a war against on two fronts, could no longer be won. Dawn, June 6th, 1944. The allies begin an invasion D-Day. When Hitler is informed, he is delighted. The news could not be any better. As long as they were in Britain, Now we have them However, by the end of the first day, the Allies have overwhelmed and fought their way inland. Private Robert Vogt: We only had infantry weapons. We didn't even have a bazooka. We were even short of ammunition. The Americans were right. They dropped leaflets in German, Attacked from the front. Cut off from behind. Written off by Hitler. In Germany, the news is announced, that a bomb has exploded A group of army officers has been Hitler has a lucky escape. Now I have proof. The entire General Staff is contaminated. Now I have the swine who have been Now I know why my great plans failed. It was treason. Hitler orders the arrest of 5,000 people. 200 are executed. With his empire Hitler puts his faith in a new weapon. For more than twelve years a team of Nazi scientists have been They make a special color film Head of the research team, shows it to Hitler. A strange, &quot;What I want is annihilation&quot;, he raged. I realized to produce a turning point in the war. Our missile has been renamed the V2. Vengeance Weapon number two. 1,300 V2 rockets are fired on London, killing almost 3,000 people. Not the annihilation Hitler has demanded. The allies are closing in Hitler is still telling his people However, in private he is a changed man. I know the war is lost. The enemy's superiority is too great. I have been betrayed. I ought to put a bullet in my head. However, we will not capitulate, ever. We may go down, but we will take the world with us. April 11th, 1945. The allies arrive at Buchenwald. It is one of over a thousand Udo Dittmeier is one of the few survivors: The conditions in Buchenwald People were starving. A few of those who could still move, broke down, and died. There were mountains of corpses. The crematorium and the courtyard were overcrowded with skeletons. I can still hear my dead friends. If you should survive, don't forget to tell the world I will never forget. The Americans round up people and force them to witness the horrors, that have been committed in their name. Eighteen-year-old, Renata Simone: I could hardly believe what I was seeing. They had piled up The smell was just too much. I couldn't take it anymore. However, someone shouted at me: &quot;You Hitler fraulein, here, look, look.&quot; The Nazis have murdered six million Jews. January 1945. The Red Army has reached the Oder River, just 50 miles from Berlin. From his bunker Hitler orders every able-bodied male Every soldier must fulfill his duty. Whoever does not is a traitor. Anyone who gives you an order to retreat, must be arrested, and executed immediately. Outnumbered more than five to one, the German cause is hopeless. On April the 21st, the Russians enter Berlin. With more than 20 million Soviets the Red Army Twenty-four-year-old, Hildegarde Krystof: The Russians came. We weren't allowed to lock our doors. Holding machine guns, they herded us into an empty house. Other young women The beasts pounced on us A whole mob of them. At dawn, they disappeared. We crept back to our family. Many committed suicide. As many as two million In the ruins of the Nazi Chancellery, Hitler's underground bunker is discovered. It is deserted. After finally marrying his mistress, Adolf Hitler has committed suicide. In order to escape my wife and I choose death. It is our wish to be burned immediately. All that is found are a few charred bones. Hitler's war is finally over. Seventeen-year-old schoolgirl, We believed in victory, and now this is the end. Hitler is responsible We will always Across Europe, 50 million people are dead. Before killing himself, It is untrue that I or anyone else It was provoked solely by the Jews. I die with a joyful heart, in the knowledge and of a contribution that bears my name.