Welcome to The Toy Time Town Planet Songs compilation Starting with... Uranus It's Planet Uranus.... Four Earths lined up, he is...wide It's time for... It's Planet Uranus.... Tilted over on his side. It's time for... &quot;Stop That&quot; Uranus I'm an ice giant. I'm so cold. Twenty-seven moons I'm incredible! He's an ice giant. He's so cold. Twenty-seven moons He's miserable! Stop That! It's Planet Uranus.... Between Saturn and Neptune It's time for... It's Planet Uranus.... Frozen with all of his moons It's time for... Stop That! Uranus From grumpy... To fabulous! It's Planet... Venus She's second from The Sun But she's hottest number one Now you know that I'm fun! Venus She spins the other way. Year's shorter than her day, And I'm awesome, Ok? Venus Sulphuric acid cloud, No humans are allowed I stand out from the crowd Venus She's named so, because Of the goddess of love My name fits like a glove. Venus Same size as me Venus Fabulous see Covered in clouds, covered in clouds, covered in clouds. Covered in clouds, she's the hottest one. I'm the hottest one Planet Venus, Planet Venus, Planet Venus. Planet Venus, Planet number 2. I am Planet Two Covered in clouds, covered in clouds, covered in clouds. Covered in clouds, she's the hottest one. I'm the hottest one. Planet Venus, Planet Venus, Planet Venus. Planet Venus, Planet number 2. I am Planet Two We leave Venus For The Planet Mercury Song! It's the smallest planet, see. Time for Planet Mercury Small Grey and Rocky It's Planet Mercury No moons and dusty Time for Planet Mercury Near 800 degrees It's Planet Mercury He is small Smaller than all Planet Mercury! It's Planet Mercury! Planet Mercury. Planet Mercury Smallest that you'll see No moons I guarantee, Just land and no sea. Planet Mercury Smallest that you'll see No moons I guarantee Just land and no sea. Tough, small, grey, planet number one Tough, fast. dry, closest to The Sun. Tough, small, grey, dry Let me... Let me at em. Let me at em! There's only one way to follow Venus Planet Neptune! It's time for me! It's time for, time for Planet Neptune. Yes I have the strongest winds Watch out now, watch me as I blow. 2.8 Billion Miles from The Sun. I am planet, planet number 8. Eight I'm Planet Neptune, I'm blue and I'm cold, I'm Planet Neptune, eighth planet you know I'm Planet Neptune, the windiest one I'm Planet Neptune, now watch as I blow! Now the smallest of the gas giants. But... I would still fit in me. 57 of Planet Earth Now you know that that's not small That's much bigger than me! I'm Planet Neptune, I'm blue and I'm cold I'm Planet Neptune, eighth planet you know I'm Planet Neptune, the windiest one I'm Planet Neptune, now watch as I blow! Now, Planet Mars is here Give it to you, give it straight Gonna tell you all about... Windy Planet number eight! With an atmosphere of methane... Helium, Hydrogen. Now you know it's cold because... It's so far from The Sun Neptune is a windy planet So awesome, catch my flow! Watch out for her wind it's so fast, now watch her BLOW! Great song! Oh, and now it's Planet Mars Hey! My name is Planet Mars - and yes, I'm very red. Planet Earth has one moon, wait, I have two instead Now my atmosphere is thin, so yes, I'm very cold 4.6 billion years, so yes, I'm very old. I have the biggest canyon, that you will find on me Jump three times higher here, because of my gravity. Way back I was named after, the Roman God of War It's Time for the chorus, to leave you wanting more I'm Planet Mars. I'm The Red Planet, now, and I'm fourth from the Sun. I'm Planet Mars. I've the biggest Mountain, I'm small but I am fun! Hey! Here we go now. Mars is here, gonna tell you how. Look, lets tell you where Mercury first, then Venus there. Earth is next, then little old me Then Jupiter, biggest you see Saturn next with his big old rings, Uranus, Neptune, you're learning things Now, there's iron in my rocks, all covering my crust I appear red because, all the iron starts to rust. Here's another fact for you, from The Sun I'm Planet four Now, I did have lots of water, many years before. I'm rocky and not gas, now you know that is true Half the size of your earth, yes I'm smallest number 2. Just over 24 hours, is the length of my day I'm the coolest planet, so get out of my way. I'm Planet Mars. I'm The Red Planet, now, and I'm fourth from the Sun. I'm Planet Mars. I've the biggest Mountain, I'm small but I am fun! From one cool Planet to another Its... The Blue Planet, It's Planet Earth The Blue Planet, It's Planet Earth Earth Earth is where we live it's home Home Earth has lots to give It's home Home Water, Green Trees, Humans, Lots to See Earth is here with a friendly beat Water to drink and food to eat. Plenty on me, if we all share Keep things clean, treat me with care. You live on me, Planet Number 3 I'm real friendly, lots to see! Water and land... Now you understand... Got a great rocky moon that follows me around Listen to my sound as you sit on my ground. What? The Blue Planet, It's Planet Earth The Blue Planet, It's Planet Earth Earth Earth is where we live It's home Home Earth has lots to give Earth has lots to give It's home Home Air to breathe, Food to eat, Animals, Brilliant, Earth. Let's go old school now, with...Planet Saturn! Name's Saturn, you might have heard of me Prettiest in our galaxy No other planet with more rings you see Gas Giant, yes I'm very windy. Made of Hydrogen and Helium too Give me a large tub I'll float for you Visited by Voyager One and Two Don't forget Cassini Yes of course, that's true. Planet Saturn, Planet with all the rings, yeah, the rings, yeah, it's... Planet Saturn, Planet with all the rings, yeah, the rings, yeah, it's... Not perfectly round, but a flattened ball And yes you know, I'm bigger than you all Wait...are you saying that I'm small? No Jupiter, I'm not that wide or tall! Now you must know, I have lots of rings Made up of rock, ice and other things As small as dust or as big as Mountains Listen to me again as Saturn sings Planet Saturn, Planet with all the rings, yeah, the rings, yeah, it's... Planet Saturn, Planet with all the rings, yeah, the rings, yeah, it's... Number six... And who remembers this one? It's Jupiter! It's Jupiter, It's Jupiter. The Planet King. It's Jupiter, It's Jupiter. The Planet King. I'm the biggest one, biggest planet, see.. No one compares to me. It's Jupiter, It's Jupiter. The best you have to agree. My name's Jupiter, I'm the biggest one Of the eight planets you see There's no Planet in, our Solar System That can compare to me. I'm sometimes called 'The Gas Giant', and also I'm 'The Planet King' Thirteen hundred Earths, would fit in me Compared to you I'm a tiny thing. It's Jupiter, It's Jupiter. The Planet King. It's Jupiter, It's Jupiter. The Planet King. I'm the fastest one, fastest spinning, see.. No one compares to me. It's Jupiter, It's Jupiter. The best you have to agree.