BAUCHAM: Well, good morning! It is a delight to If you have your Bibles with you, 1 John and chapter 2, 1 John chatper 2. And we find here, what is in many but I think it is a text critical First, let us look at it beginning in verse 15. &quot;Do not love the world or the things in the love of the Father is not in him. For all that desires of the eyes and the pride of life--is the world is passing away along with its desires, In one way, this passage seems like it ought It appears to be completely out of place and we as Christians are not just lovers, we are nobody's business. We love because God is love. Lord our God with all our heart, soul, mind, and There are myriad commands to love the world knows that we are Christians, but not only our love for one By love we fulfill the law. The Apostle Paul says to love each other. The one who loves another 'You shall not commit adultery, You shall not and any other commandment, are summed up in this Love does no wrong to a neighbor; therefore And then there is the issue of the world. This seems to contradict our most beloved verse in that He gave His only Son, so that whoever eternal life.&quot; So, it can make this text of it comes as a shock to the system and yet there they are, &quot;Do not love.&quot; Even when I just let that sit there, you don't No, I want you to hear those words, which means that if we violate it that we are Remember, I told you this is an important We live in the midst of a culture that needs because it is coming at us with and how can you be against love? Christians can't be against love, because God how can you stand in the way of any But our text today makes it very clear that In other words, this is more than just a This is a very practical rubber love being sinful. The question is what makes sinful? Under what circumstances Well, first of all, love becomes sinful Love becomes sinful when it is directed &quot;Do not love the world or the things in the world. is not in him.&quot; Do not love the world. Now, it especially in Johannine literature is used in the &quot;world&quot; can refer to all creation. John 6, John 7, John 8, over and over again. to all the created universe. John is not saying this world, this earth that God created. Secondly, the term &quot;world&quot; refers to the people And God is not saying, &quot;Do not Absolutely not! We know that it doesn't mean that, because the love that we are called to give, &quot;Love the Lord your God with all your heart John can't be talking about that first &quot;world&quot; &quot;world&quot; here. That would be a contradiction. and that third use refers to the spiritual and in rebellion against His kingdom. that is being discussed here. So, when John says, sinful when it is directed at that system that that system that is satanic. And he makes it obvious it is satanic because John writes that by faith the Christian is able text he says the world passes away. In chapter In 3:13 he says the world hates believers. In In 4:3 it is the abode of the antichrist and last, the whole world is It is obvious here that in this text he is referring to that world that that world that is spiritual and ideological And we are told, &quot;Do not love that world.&quot; Not at all! Listen to Calvin. He had said before love God, but as when we are occupied with the thoughts and affections another way. This vanity the love of God may reign within us. Until our iterated a hundred times but with no effect. you can gather, no, not a drop, because Like pouring water on a ball, when your toward the world, there is no room for the affections are pointed toward the world they thus, love can become sinful when James says something similar in James Do you not know that friendship with whoever wishes to be a friend of the &quot;No man can serve two masters. He will love the situation. You cannot love the world and love in our salvation, we are taken out of the world. out of darkness and into His marvelous light. but if our love is still for the world our which is why in 2:19, just after our passage, because they were not of us. If they had But they left, so that it might be &quot;that we might see that they were because their love, their affections were 1 John 5:4, &quot;For everyone who has And this is the victory that John 15:19, &quot;If you were of the world, the you are not of the world, but I chose you out John 17:16, &quot;They are not of the world, just as me into the world, so I have sent them into the to proclaim the gospel, but we are not but not of this world, and we are A great way to see this picture is to think about his wife. &quot;Husbands, love your wives as Christ There is a love that husbands are called and the moment you turn that love onto It is the same point here. The moment you turn that love that has been shed abroad in our hearts, you were saved, that minute you are communicating or love for God. Beloved, we must constantly examine our hearts Now, be careful here, because there is a We have got to fight worldliness, and so cuss, or chew or date the girls that do, right? That is not what this is. That because I can love alcohol and not drink it. Amen. I can love drugs and not take them. I can can be pointed in these directions, and yet not just than I was, but because I fight the urge, because I don't participate. I still John is not saying here, &quot;Don't He says, &quot;Don't love the world.&quot; We must develop but not only that. Love becomes sinful not only when it is pointed in the wrong but when it arises from the wrong source. Verse 16, &quot;For all that is in the world--the the pride of life--is not from the So there is a problem first with the object, and This love for the world arises from the the things of God arises from God. It is but here we have a love that is The first two categories that are mentioned here, cravings and lust are sinful desires; from internal to external. The first The last one is revealed. The first The last one pertains to this person in Three categories: cravings, lust, and boasting. These things arise from the world; cravings, we have to separate these. When we say cravings that we are talking about this third &quot;world&quot; first &quot;world&quot; I can love the beauty of a sunset, Sorry. I can love the beauty of music, art; again, I can and I must love the people but the kind of love that I have for those but even those loves can be perverted, and of a sunset or a beauty of God's created I worship the creature rather than the Creator. Rather than loving the beauty of those things those things become means to an end to to quenching my lustful desires. That And then there are these boastings. That is when it gets outward. My True love can lead me to share my testimony True love can cause me to use my voice Pride makes me love the sound of my True love can lead me to share my story, but my pride causes me to make myself can make me one of those people who That is what it looks like True love can show gratitude for the things can make me constantly give you the price tag Are you smelling what I'm stepping in? So, our love can become sinful based on But, finally, and ultimately, and most when it produces the wrong fruit, when it leads to the wrong ends. Look at verse 17. &quot;And the world is passing away along with of God abides forever.&quot; Here you have these this world that is passing away, and on the Love becomes sinful when it leads to Our passions become sinful when they are pointed as opposed to leading to life. 1 Corinthians the appointed time has grown very short. From now had none, and those who mourn as though they were were not rejoicing, and those who buy as though world as though they had no dealings with it. For There is no life there. And this leads us back to the poignant way in which this is so pertinent to particularly in the area of same-sex marriage. same-sex marriage is just about people who love But that is a love that is That is not a love that comes from God. it is pointed at the wrong object. It is a love that arises from the wrong source. beginning at verse 18, familiar &quot;For the wrath of God is revealed and the unrighteousness of men, who by For what can be known about God is plain to invisible attributes, namely, His eternal power ever since the creation of the world, So they are without excuse. For although they give thanks to Him, but they became futile in darkened. Claiming to be wise, they became fools, images resembling mortal man and birds and animals to the lusts of their hearts to impurity.&quot; &quot;to the dishonoring of their bodies among truth about God for a lie and worshiped and who is blessed forever! Amen. For this reason Dishonorable passions; the desires Enough already with this gay And I don't just say enough already; I &quot;They're over there and I'm over here.&quot; I mean If a man comes to me talking about a I am not one to tell him to just because the desire in and &quot;God gave them up to dishonorable passions. For those that are contrary to nature; and the women and were consumed with passion for one and receiving in themselves the due penalty It is pointed in the wrong direction. and it is producing bad fruit. Therefore, it It falls into the category of love that does not for that third version of the word &quot;world;&quot; not &quot;people in the world,&quot; but that third, that and that rebels against the And that is precisely where we are, this rebellion is no longer covert, but it is in our faces and, unfortunately, it is who are essentially arguing that love is love is always appropriate, because God loves the Bible says, &quot;Do not love.&quot; There are some loves that are out of bounds. There are some loves that aren't acceptable. In other words, there are some And if you are here today and you that the last thing you need to do is to give because that is love of the world. Do not love the world. Do not love But love the Lord your God with all your and all your strength, which means your passions We must reject the lie that says there is no love that says there is no love that is out of bounds I am a father nine times over, and what that means is I am very that love is not defined by to have what they want, when they Some of the most loving moments between me and authoritatively and unequivocally, &quot;No.&quot; Amen. And we see that here in this text. Why? &quot;The world is passing away along with its desires, Do you see what is happening here? This, &quot;Do there is good stuff out there that I want to This &quot;Do not love&quot; says, &quot;That looks good but in the end you will perish. I am calling you and in loving you I want you to abide in Because our desire is that Christ indeed may have So, do not love the world. Let us pray: Our Gracious God and our Heavenly Father, God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, the the God who is the King and ruler overall, God, and we bow before You recognizing that Ironically, we have to fight to love that world and fight not to love that third one, Grant by Your grace that we might have not only to trust You to transform us, but to deny our flesh and to not love the world. Father, I pray that this would not but that we would be wise enough and that in doing so we would be distinct and continue to be those who are love for God, love for the brethren, love for mankind, love for the but not love for the world. Grant by Your grace that this may be true of us. For we ask it in Christ's