- [Narrator] It's not just to tell whether you're a human or a robot, has been getting harder. This is one of the guys who invented it. - Oh yeah, I fail them all the time. I never know how much to say there's a traffic light if it's only like a tiny - [Narrator] The problem is to keep malicious spots but every time you've solved a test, you've actually made those bots smarter. - As more and more data was fed into these perceptual systems, they simply got a lot better at solving the perceptual tasks. - [Narrator] So what does that can outsmart a bot but This is &quot;The Tech Behind Captcha&quot;. (bright music) So Captcha was first that Yahoo began giving - This was the year 2000. There were people who to abuse different web services and there was no easy way to stop them. And the idea was there should that humans can pass, - [Narrator] Luis's test looked like this, a string of letters slightly that the end user had to He called it Captcha, which stands for completely automated to tell computers and humans apart. And he took advantage of the fact that computers at the at something called OCR, The way it works is a The program scans the image and compares any shapes that against a database of different The second it finds a match, But if that P was warped, or had marks through it, then to find anything in its and won't be able to identify the letter. Simple, but enough to keep - The technology behind them when it came to having access - [Narrator] But that Here's Luis from 2010. - Is there some way in which while you're typing a Captcha - [Narrator] In 2007, an updated version that At the time, groups and The Internet Archive to digitize old literature. Since optical character at the time, the digitization had errors. So to try and help resolve those errors, reCaptcha began showing two One was a control word, but the other was a word In answering the Captcha, half to pass the test, but to tell the computer what helping to improve OCR. - Not only are you authenticating but in addition you're helping to digitize books and newspapers. - [Narrator] The that Google acquired it in because Captchas relied on and we just taught them Eventually the bots were able to get Captchas right more The test needed to evolve. So in 2012, Google deployed - There was a switch to go to the harder problem of distinguishing certain to pick all the ones or a bicycle or whatever. - [Narrator] Interestingly, where it's not exactly as a traffic light or not, there isn't actually a - The way to get it right of the human population says. - But for machines, this After all, they'd only See, with text-based Captchas, the machines only had to of variables, letters and numbers from a black and white background. But now with image Captchas, to identify anything and spot an object in However, computer vision - Whereas you and I of perceptual input, the computer vision system is and processes strings of pixels, And as it processes these images, it's picking up patterns in the images. It's picking up patterns in the pixels. - [Narrator] Now, for any to perform well, it needs - It's being trained to identify cars by having many, many, many images of cars. - [Narrator] The problem was essentially a data labeling task. By solving it, you were that could help a bot defeat it. - The systems just kept 'cause they kept getting - [Narrator] A new approach was needed. So in 2014, Google launched the But this version of whether you clicked the box. It was looking at how you clicked it and how you interacted with See, if you're writing code the simplest version will be for it to move at a constant but humans naturally aren't that accurate. We overshoot, we don't move And that is what this version human flaws. It was also monitoring things and your typing speed. If the history was just a string of repeated attacks on the same website, you're probably a bot. But if you stopped halfway for shoes or look at cat By 2018, Google had done away and launched reCaptcha V3 based solely on that hidden data. But even flawed human that a smart algorithm can So are the bots always destined to win? Well perhaps, see, there's a quirk at the that means bots will always And to understand what to before the internet was of the Captcha test, Alan Turing. He's considered one of after he penned this paper, &quot;Computing Machinery and Intelligence.&quot; In it, he describes a method to test whether you're talking - You had a questioner and trying to differentiate and a computer machine giving answers. This now has famously become - [Narrator] The problem with Captcha is that the questioner isn't human. It's a computer. And therefore any information that's input into the computer to train Captcha-defeating bots. Even Luis's original that the technology will for websites and advance the field of AI. - You have the research world and surpassing the Captcha world. - [Narrator] But the solution may be to take the test outta the - We all have mobile phones and they have so many being able to tilt the or being able to take a or another using the sensors in the phone. - [Narrator] But in order that we're human online, we may have to find an entirely new approach. - I think the question It's how do we seize Control again? - I would not be I think that's a losing (warm music)