Transcriber: Genesis Irizarry Garcia I have always been drawn to community. Being in community, building communities I've been a lifelong learner. Seeker, total joiner, brownies, I was raised by fantastic hippie parents the world better. Also bring snacks. I'm incredibly organized. I've been told I have big No clipboard today. I was also And I'm here today to protect you that I went through. Yeah. You want this! My talk is rooted in awareness. I want to help you to navigate all so that you can seek safely. So in 2005, I was an aspiring I was invited to Nexium. A personal and professional a seemingly altruistic mission to change Big red flag. And I truly found an incredible community a place where I could help people and bust through their limiting beliefs. I was wonderful, but it was also a something that would take over my with a slow build of coercion, obligation, Wasn't just a highly toxic workplace. This But I couldn't see it. There are the community clouding my judgment. I rose up the ranks, became one of It was incredible. I thought that My people, the chosen family, a place where I had community Those were things I was looking for. Ever since I was a little girl, I had actually wandered onto and transformation without any tools for But I was in deep. My actual friends My as I'd spent more money and my worldview got more narrow. I sounded like a Nexium robot. I was on the top of this Grifting And it truly haunts me to this day. How many people I brought in who in turn brought in their friends Till I had grown an organization so big I which was something I used to Some of those people are still To this day, it all came to a head when I was invited to A badass boot camp for as empowerment when it was Just a way for Keith Ranieri, the As if he owned them. Yeah. He also I managed to dodge that bullet, but literally dozens of women Thankfully, it was the branding I mean, one minute you're the next minute, you're sweaty and naked on a table being branded And it wasn't the moment No, not when I was sliced But later, when I found out that the the four elements as I'd been told, but actually Keith Ranieri's initials Yeah, I had his initials on my body. He He was wrong and I was out. Wait. What happened to me And when we found out what else was I'm talking crimes ranging from blackmail, sex trafficking, I was mortified. So I went to the authorities with a and we blew the proverbial whistle. Fell on deaf ears because they didn't So we went to the press. Look, I'm on the front page of It's not exactly what I was imagining my an actress, but here we are. After that, the. Rest is called history. An investigation A dramatic arrest in Mexico, a six and ultimately, a 120 year prison sentence Thank you, Thank you. Big win. And just for the record, by all Keith Brunner is now known as one of the most dangerous cult leaders of whose rise to power culminated 300 of which were children, for which is where the term drink By the way, an FYI if they hadn't have It wasn't a choice. We don't It's called a bounded choice. Needless to say, Keith Ranieri was ethical genius I thought I was Quite the opposite, actually. Nobody signs up for trauma In fact, a wise man once said, nobody They join something good. I was on my path. I was Literally. Blackmailed, branded, But I couldn't just leave. It had to be as loud about why I was And I've been out for six years, almost to Sorry to me. Thank you. And you could say my stories out there Thank you HBO. I have been to hell And I could definitely glean some nuggets Turning lemons into lemonade. But today I want to share with you cult literacy, I want to share some lessons learned I want to show you how cults prey on your Good plan. Okay. So first you have to know Cults are everywhere, and they don't I'm not talking about shaved heads And some Stanley Kubrick horror movie. Cults thrive by disguising themselves as something wonderful that normal humanity your desire for connection All of those things are really beautiful. It might look like a hot yoga class where Thank you so much for coming. A course on leadership and communication. An incredible business opportunity to the comfort of your own home. Hashtag You know who I'm talking about. Or a Sunday coffee hour where the or Montessori moms are all so quick to Oh well, bless your heart. Oh my God, I I'm not condemning any one of I just want you to see the precursors. I want you to be able to tell a healthy human thing and something Which brings me to the second Cults prey on your humanity in a way Do people keep telling you Yeah, well, the special but if that's combined with a lot of That might not be love, but love bombing. A manipulation strategy that's designed used by so many people, from sex the infamous and ultimately doomed leader the Waco tragedy. To Keith Ranieri, selling essential oils out of All that love is designed to part of something. The best yoga. The Am I right? Best head x. This is Thank you. Yes. Dave. But. All of that love is designed to make you That's it. Are you part of a course or a group that's telling you that they've Or even better yet, the answer is. And the Careful. That's dogma or doctrine. And those courses you're buying could You feel righteous about a group being the Basic us versus them mentality That's a very convenient way for cult bad and the outside world. All of these and community and love and is just what binds you to the Just like the frog in the pot of water. You throw the frog in a pot of hot it knows what's going on. But if you the heat up slowly, it stays in. Just like you don't notice because and be part of something. Or maybe you're money's worth. Or, like me, prove I'm not in a cult. And if and That it's not what you signed up for You're just a frog. You're bought Okay, so how do you know the difference Bombing the tools, helpful tools versus and something altruistic versus smoke How do you do that human When cults are insidious and any group can Okay. First, you can write this down. You're not immune to cultic influence. And I know some of you are thinking If you think you're not susceptible, You might see some red flags and think Nexium fooled some really Heads of state, captains of industry, Because this stuff isn't so obvious. It's called an abuse of power. Like you read, a boss asked and weekends asking you to prove and you kind of felt like Or at a significant other text you Make you feel special only only and have you question your own worth. Or And you knew that if you you might be on the outs for a while. It could be anything from a group of And remember, it doesn't matter how you're all susceptible. And look, hey, You might not have been interested But with the right place the right trusted person inviting you, Everybody's got their something, Remember, it doesn't look like what you It could be as fun and friendly as. A make up party with wine and cheese. Hey, let's go phone bank for Have you ever tried cold plunging? That's why it's so important to know the especially in this day and age. We've all had to become hip in regards to How about we learn some cult literacy? So I'm going to teach you Not all of them, but a couple of red And remember, not any one of these things It's the whole package. So please. No. The first thing is there's an assumption You're a broken bird, you're on hold, and they have all the tools to make you Secondly, it's expensive. And please know It could cost you in time Also loaded language if they're using and smarter. Run. Be aware if there's or if there's lawsuits or bad press where And finally, if they're claiming to have the definitive answers to life's mysteries Oh, my green flags are up already. It's important to also see green a safe group like questions are welcomed. Also, you can leave without being Finally, there's a healthy not an all consuming change of your Now, one more thing. It doesn't pop up publications if you type You'd be surprised how many I personally never googled next Eminem. And look where that got me. So do your I had it removed. Yes. It's free of all that. Yay! Plastic surgery! I'm healing. I'm just trying to clean up the mess that for Nexium. And I'm also trying to, just as loudly I'm loudly trying to educate my fellow So ultimately, the best advice a culty nightmare is just remember that and tools and answers and all this stuff Nobody has all the answers. And I'm not here to point fingers and say, you're gonna call it lots of cold, or Hey, you don't even have I just want you all to be able to thinking about joining is healthy Because of course, it's great to have new life. That's likely why you're here today. Maybe you don't need a guru. Maybe you don't need a fancy retreat or a better you. You're on a path of but you're already whole right now. So this is my idea for you and I hope Because to seek is so human, and to I want only the best for all of you.