A hundred years ago, a German architect came he wanted to quite literally drain the ocean. When it comes to engineering megaprojects, Nothing else comes close to it: not the Pyramids Panama Canal. But why did he want to do it? And could his plan have worked? To understand this fascinating story, we need of Europeans - especially in Germany - were Lebensraum In English, 'lebensraum' means 'living as a country's population increases, the In the 1920s, this idea came to the attention his worldview. He decided that, as the German nation grew space'. Other Europeans had the same idea. Populations were skyrocketing all across the for everyone. These bloated countries were jostling for room, and many people at the time thought began to pop. There were energy demands to consider too. As populations rose, so would energy requirements, would become more and more essential. All in all, it felt like a matter of time in Europe. These growing countries needed land and resources, from each other. At least, that felt like their only option. But in the 1920s, another German began to His name was Herman Sorgel, and he came up history. He called it: Atlantropa This name was a combination of 'Atlantic' people of Atlantis, the mythical underwater And it's hard to say which sounds more realistic: To put it simply, Sorgel wanted to drain By emptying that massive body of water, he and solve the problem of 'lebensraum' The Mediterranean is roughly eight times larger That's a lot of unused space. Sorgel envisioned vast swathes of land reclaimed plains. He envisioned beautiful networks of towns in peace without worrying about running out Even better, with the Mediterranean out of Europe to Africa. That would open up yet more living space, and build new cities and homes. Sorgel's vision was actually inspired by An interesting feature of the Mediterranean of the sea at a faster rate than water arrives The only reason the level of the sea doesn't flows into the region via the Strait of Gibraltar, But about five million years ago, the Strait plates. The Mediterranean was isolated, and without it slowly started to shrink. As the water level dropped by hundreds of Thousands of years later, the Strait of Gibraltar water refilled the Mediterranean basin. But for a short period, the Mediterranean total land area of the European continent Millions of years later, Sorgel wanted to he couldn't wait for the tectonic plates Instead, he would need to resort to civil And so, this was Sorgel's Insane Plan The main feature of Sorgel's ambitious of Gibraltar, replacing the tectonic closure instead. Building this dam would not be easy. At its deepest point, the Strait of Gibraltar shallower areas, it was still 300 meters from Back then, no dam had ever been built at a a couple of dams have ever passed that mark. Both of those are in China: the Jinping-I The depth of the water was only one of the Sorgel would also need to deal with the significant At its narrowest point, the body of water and when it comes to dam-building, that's To put it into perspective, the Jinping-I 600 meters and 700 meters respectively. In other words, Sorgel's dam across the be significantly taller than the largest dams It would also need to be twenty times longer Already, Atlantropa sounds wildly ambitious. But this was only the start. After damming the Atlantic, Sorgel also wanted of separating the Mediterranean from the Black This one was a slightly less difficult project but it would still have been more than one Working together, Sorgel wanted these colossal the water level could start to drop. But still, there was more to his astonishing After isolating the Mediterranean, he wanted Tunisia, effectively cutting the giant sea This dam proposal was even more ambitious coast of Sicily and the coast of Tunisia was Sorgel planned to use this dam to allow the different levels. He wanted the water level in the western half the water level of the eastern half would This all sounds overly complicated, but it In terms of land reclamation, the coastal meters was the ideal drop for the western for the east. Together, these descending water levels were of land. To put that into perspective, it's double This would certainly have solved Europe's But.. you guessed it, there was more to this Sorgel was much aware that overpopulation Because of this, he wanted Atlantropa's stations. These stations would generate enough electricity region, as well as providing power to other In other words, Sorgel didn't only want He also wanted to turn the sea into a giant, Looking back, it all sounds absurdly ambitious, Sorgel wrote several books on Atlantropa, and articles, and lots of people were excited problem of overpopulation. Even a few politicians were impressed. They would rather spend money on Atlantropa Contemporary architects and civil engineers A new plan emerged: to block the Strait of of the single dam that Sorgel originally These dams would function like steps, or terraces, at smaller, more manageable intervals. There would be a lot less pressure on each - as they shared the load of the water between This was still a wildly ambitious proposal, They were also inspired by the Zuiderzee (pronunciation) time. Using a massive system of dams and dikes, of the North Sea, and reclaim a piece of land. This project was nowhere near as ambitious impressive achievement, and one that gave And as his confidence grew, he started to He suggested that the entire European continent grid, and that if any country tried to start their power off until that country was forced He also wanted a system of canals in places When the sea level dropped, Venice and Cairo completely cut off from the sea-bound trade But with a network of canals connecting these Sorgel planned to make sure that boats and Yeah, this really sounds like a great plan... On top of all this, he expanded his plans continent called Eurafrica. He wanted to build yet another dam across inland sea. This water could be used to irrigate the Sahara land. In Sorgel's own words, he wanted to turn The area would then be connected to countries tracks that ran over the top of the dam across Sicily and Tunisia. Of course, not everybody liked these proposals. In hindsight, they reflected the colonialist take into account the people who already lived of Europeans flow into the continent and claim Sorgel may have wanted to avert the crisis care about disrupting the lives of African And obviously, this wasn't the only criticism Even if the project could properly be built, safety. What if an earthquake, or a terrorist attack, The Atlantic Ocean would rush back down into all the towns and cities that Sorgel had There was also the overall cost to consider. It's difficult to know the exact figure, sum. The Zuiderzee Works cost well over a billion smaller than Atlantropa. To raise enough money to complete the project, to contribute, and in the years before the was hardly likely to happen. Finally - and perhaps most obviously - people project. A lot of engineers just didn't think that back at them now, those engineers were probably Even today, no dam has been built that comes In the end, despite a lifelong campaign, he action. Instead, he had to watch his greatest fears In the 1930s, Adolf Hitler and the Nazi Party country - in the hope of finding more 'lebensraum'. This wasn't the only thing that drove them, So began the Second World War, as countries the aggressive Nazi advance. Not long after seeing his continent fall apart, After his death, the dream of Atlantropa quickly What do you think? Is Sorgels plan a good idea and is it possible Let us know in the comments below. If you want to learn more about the Congo our video about it! Thank you for watching, and we will see you