Reviewer: Peter van de Ven I remember being shocked I was shocked when I met I was shocked when I met Sonia, And I was shocked when I met a disabled What shocked me wasn't their poverty, I found their happiness confronting, Of course, not everyone was happy, but of those above a basic I was surprised at how And I became fascinated And since then, I've researched it, I'm interested in it it's one of the things And I'm interested in it because happiness is, after all, I think it's particularly appropriate because we have with us the very man who pioneered, and who championed the idea rather than GDP, as a way as a way of monitoring But before we go into that, I want It's just a simple multiple-choice quiz, and I've invited some other So, I want you to just raise your hand, I want you to answer honestly So the first question. Imagine that you're competing representing your country, what would you prefer would you prefer to come second, Answer honestly: Raise your hand. Excellent! Who would prefer to come third? And who would prefer Excellent. It seems a large chunk I'm not sure I'd be selecting you (Laughter) The monkeys, they select they don't quite understand the question, (Laughter) It's probably no surprise most prefer second. So that's question one. Question number two. Imagine that you're given either you win the lottery, you can spend it however you want; or option B, alternatively, you get but you get gradual payments increasing payments, and in total, you get over the course of your lifetime. If I gave you that option right now, Who would pick option A? A lot of people. Who would pick option B? Excellent. Amongst the general population, most people seem most people like Again, the monkeys 50:50. (Laughter) They did recognize Third and final question. You get to choose your salary: You get 50,000, You get 50,000 or you get 40,000 and everyone else Who would pick option A? Who would pick option B? Who would pick option C? I think there's one person You're pretty consistent most go for option A. The monkeys, no surprises there. But let's now think What does the research say what actually makes us satisfied, what actually makes us happy? To question one, the answer is actually to come third, which I think was the lowest There's no shortage of silver medalists (Laughter) So that was question one. Question two, I think you did better on. You picked option B, and I think you beat the monkeys they beat you on question one; And for question three, which I think only one person got correct. And so the monkeys beat you in terms of what actually makes us as the research has shown. So I think it's fair to say you're slightly better predictors but you're still pretty pathetic, I think the monkeys beat you, They won two out of three. And what's interesting that's bad predictors of happiness. The macro data actually We're wealthier than ever, We're more prosperous, We're less satisfied. We have faster and faster transport, but we're faster and faster In many countries, there are now We now have more goods We have technology but we don't see a corresponding increase in our life satisfaction, It's perhaps one of the great And I think the obvious question is, Why is it that governments and individuals Why is that we get it wrong so often? And I think it's because why it is that we're often unhappy. And so the obvious question is, What's the explanation? Now it's not an easy question to answer, but it's one that I've thought about, And through my research over the years, I think there's one explanation far more plausible, And that explanation isn't that we have so much choice It's not that we in many cases, It's not that we just have great reporting that's true, but it only explains It's not due to family breakdowns You know, the reason why we're unhappy, as shown by the data, relates to expectations. At a very basic, simple level, we're unhappy when exceed our experiences of reality. When our expectations exceed reality. And I'd like to call this when our expectations It's a very simple concept, to fully understand, And to help us get our head around it, I'd like to think in terms of three three different types of gaps based on the different ways I think we form expectations based on those around us, So to this first type of expectation gap, which occurs when our You see, when we choose to buy goods, When we choose where to travel to, When we choose which leader to elect, And how do we make that decision? What we do is that we choose the one We choose the one that we imagine What we do is we try to maximize that's how most people make decisions. To do otherwise would be to choose an option that we which seems a bit counterintuitive. Now the problem here is that we think will give us that very decision-making process is the thing that actually because what it means when we then experience it, whether it's the good or the place we travel to it's highly likely that that reality And that leads to disappointment. And technology makes this so much worse. What technology has loused is things that are actually things that aren't even are made to seem as though We photoshop things in, we digitally enhance photos. And what this does is and makes us come up about places that reality So we think Sagrada Familia when it actually looks like this. (Laughter) We think the Taj Mahal when, actually, often it looks like this. We think that the Mona Lisa when, actually, if we go and visit it, (Laughter) What technology does is that it and makes the unreal seem real. Indeed, many of the times that when we're happiest they're actually the times when we when we discover things for ourselves, where we don't have preconceived And what also makes this worse Many content-based algorithms, whether it's a Google search the way that it presents information is that it prioritizes those things the most shared images, You're more likely if it has 200 likes than if it has 2. And so we come to think of the best images And this also plays with our imagination. That's selection bias. Then there's persuasion, because politicians often get elected that they can't deliver, Who would you A politician that says, &quot;I'll fix or someone who says, &quot;Things will probably be the same, Probably you'll vote for the former, but you'll probably And so we're in this constant cycle and hopes being dashed. It's the same with companies. I mean, companies that watches have never They're probably not going to tell us both of which are true. And so when you have technology, when you have persuasion, what that means is that we than reality can provide. And when the limitless is met by the confined nature of earth, we're disappointed, we're unhappy. Expectations and disappointments In terms of beauty, it's no wonder I mean, advertisers learned long ago that if you can make you can sell them things. Now they're applying it and we see this. What we see is advertisers showing What we see is pictures of models even though they're not. We've become a society of counter-factual historians - people who always imagine different but people whose imagination So that's the imagination gap. That's why our imagination and that's the first main reason The second main type I like to call the interpersonal gap. That's where we compare our reality Put simply, we judge ourselves If you earn 50,000 dollars you'll feel rich. If you earn 50,000 dollars you'll feel poor. If you get a small pay rise, but everyone around you you'll be disappointed. Your gain is someone's pain; Unfortunately, it's a bit of a zero-sum game, And it's not only it's also relative One person's plastic surgery Indeed, research has shown when we're with worse looking people because we're perceived by others So when your friend asks you you know why. (Laughter) And what's particularly is that we have an asymmetry of emphasis - we prioritize, we focus We focus on the rich, and pay less attention to the other end. And so we're made to seem poorer, made to feel less successful It's almost as though we're running constantly striving to be happy, because when our standard if everyone else's standard we don't always feel happier. So that's the second way based on others around us. The third and final way is based on our past, I call this the intertemporal gap. And we're unhappy when our past reality Take two people who have the same average lifetime income. There's person A whose income person B whose income increases. Now, research shows that you're always if you have that increasing income, even though the average might be the same. Why is this? It's because of something We compare to our past, constantly exceeding expectations, you're generally happy. The reverse is true if you're person A. And so what does this mean I think often we tend to spoil children; we tend to give them everything But often the best intentions Yes, we should support children, but if we give them everything, it's much harder for them a positive intertemporal gradient - it's harder for them to improve and that actually potentially While I'm talking about parenting, I think another problem in our society is that we tend to tell children that they're one-of-a-kind, We tell them they can be that they can be the next We tell them that they'll be What this means And so when that child gets a normal job, when they start a business, when they're seeing career peaks with a rendition they're disappointed, they're unhappy, their expectations haven't been satisfied. Yes, we want to give children self-belief, but we don't want to delude them, So what we see is that our happiness Our expectations are largely determined And what we consider to be normal based on others around us, And so we have these constant battles: the battle between the battle between the reality and what we think or perceive the battle between our reality How can we win these battles? I think the first challenge, the challenge for entrepreneurs for parents, for legislators, is to take happiness seriously, to take expectations seriously. I think, often we relegate happiness We dismiss it, we think of it in terms of hippies What we want is for entrepreneurs to focus on actually not just increasing consumption. In terms of winning I think it's important that we the importance of actually of images, people, and places and events. And we might even go so far as to ban things In terms of winning I think it's important that governments and that we learn to compete rather than against others. And in terms of that intertemporal battle, I think it's important but also make them realize and not to give them Let me conclude. We seem to have been seduced that almost conspires in every way against the most basic level We're terrible predictors I mean, anytime monkeys beat you, We're terrible predictors of happiness because the way in which we rationalize, the way in which we make decisions absolute levels, but the way in which we feel is based on relative outcomes, It's expectation that explains why a bronze medalist can be happier because the silver medalist the bronze medalist It's expectation that explains why, their happiness doesn't last because they don't have throughout their life. It's expectation that explains with an income of 40,000 We often think of happiness when in reality our happiness it's far more intertwined with our community, And it's important about how our minds work, how our expectations work. And it's important that we change so that our thinking process Ladies and gentlemen, for entrepreneurs that want as well as for people I think the first step And I hope that the next time, that your decision-making prowess I hope you come out on top. Thank you. (Applause) (Cheers)