When Resident Evil released in 1996, it bore 1992's Alone in the Dark. There's no denying, more interesting, and more influential, literally Most importantly, it grew into a series in its own own lore, and introducing countless characters head injuries. ["Jill, you're here, too." "Yes, experiment to horror juggernaut, however, You know what that means: It is our sacred better than which other ones and by how much. The rules are simple this time around. In We are ranking every Resident We are excluding ports and enhanced that means we are judging these games at launch. We will be including the remakes of the enough from the originals to merit inclusion. as many of them are either lost to time or we will not be ranking them because they Resident Evil pachinko or pachislot games because Let's rank 'em. from TripleJump, and this is Every Resident Evil #26: Resident Evil 2 (1998) We debated including this one at all, mainly its name three times, it would appear in the room unique game rather than a direct port. And it's off a building because you believe you can flap so that's not necessarily a good thing. on hardware that's moderately less so we can forgive it for lacking content. But all of the cutscenes, most of the story, nearly At that point, why not create a simpler The game at least does have a deliberate pace, but a book of postage stamps. With so many other ways is madness. It's like experiencing Resident #25: Umbrella Corps (2016) In game design, there is always a struggle resources towards making games as large and varied better if you spent more time working on it? Or do aspect of the game as good as it can be, knowing Umbrella Corps answered that question was important. Which is certainly...an opinion. though even if it were released overpriced. It's a generic multiplayer overtop. It reduces one of the most famously firefight, and it doesn't even do it well. and will almost certainly be in the form of wrong with creating an action-oriented spinoff, a fan game that really needed another few weeks #24: Resident Evil Gaiden (2001) It's tempting to say that any attempt to a system as weak as the Game Boy Color was doomed Capcom worked gory, atmospheric wonders with crucial part of Resident Evil's DNA, so have both worked well and been a lovely Instead, we got a strange RPG/rhythm game hybrid, timing-based battle sequences. It was a graceless and you won't find too many people who wish surely meant to replicate the difficulty of the make every encounter frustrating and tedious. soundtrack is good, the graphics are charming, and setting of a much better game. It's also one "Just Take-A-Look-At-This" Burton. #23: Resident Evil: Operation Raccoon City (2012) The nicest thing we can say about Operation characters and enemies we recognize. The your house might not burn down while you play it. events of Resident Evil 2 and 3. That's remember those games being fun and having by contrast, has waves of disposable enemies and conquered more satisfyingly in the main games. survival horror; it's a squad-based Operation Racoon City is a very bad squad-based the playable characters are interchangeable, That last bit is a shame, because with more could have given the events of Resident Evil Operation Raccoon City raises the question games?" only to answer it with, "They #22: Resident Evil Survivor (2000) The only game on this list that had the Games Ever, Resident Evil Survivor is a spinoff game was due to its loading screens. At least, I You play as an amnesiac who falls onto an island, performing yet more horrific experiments. but it would be pointless; you The game was intended to play with a light gun. If where the functionality was removed - you worthy of shining Resident Evil's shoes. that. But now you could play it with a light gun. fancy yourself a Resident Evil scholar, you'll a Resident Evil scholar, though...what are you doing #21: Resident Evil Survivor Arcade, PlayStation 2 this game had a Japan-only arcade release, I might well have ranked Resident Evil as I'm sure it feels and controls better "we" I mean fans in the UK. North America Survivor 2 is a retelling of Code Veronica, and very long time, you can rest assured it's an game's incredible atmosphere and engaging story and tiny maps full of dull corridors. Also, like that ghost whale in Bubble Bobble. Only, The game also lacks voice acting, despite the recorded; they could have reused voice clips from A better Survivor game and a better Code #20: Resident Evil: The Mercenaries 3D (2011) Minigames and side modes are a staple of Resident of the best-received ones were the Mercenaries Mercenaries 3D had the bright idea of expanding Well, it should have been. Taking the Mercenaries into a full, action-packed experience is a solid that offered precious little in terms of content. there were few enemies and environments available, there was no incentive to keep playing. making the save data undeletable, meaning you just for fun. It also meant you couldn't that's just a coincidence. The Mercenaries 3D version with more characters, environments, and #19: Resident Evil: Dead Aim (2002) Resident Evil: Dead Aim is the best of what placement on this list tells you everything you play the Gun Survivor series. Like the others, that everything beyond the shooting got little Dead Aim does a decent job of building the You play as a member of the Anti-Umbrella Pursuit their mission is - as you explore a monster-filled already in Resident Evil Gaiden and it's one and indeed the setting goes a long way toward If you weren't a fan of the Dead Aim isn't going to suddenly make you because I played it and I still don't understand worth playing this one. And...all of the remaining #18: Resident Evil 6 (2012) Well, something has to be the lowest-ranking be Resident Evil 6. Abandoning survival the game was met with a deeply mixed reception. It's true that Resident Evil 6 plays well but it's also true that it represents a major fault fans for picking up this game and expecting Ultimately, the problem is that it tries to do but it's too full of Hollywood explosions. but it's riddled with quick-time events and used to take itself seriously. Ada's campaign okay, it does, but it's also boring as sin. the bunch, but it jostles for space with three Evil was never all that smart, but this #17: Resident Evil Outbreak (2003) There are those who have fond memories of playing people had the luxury of playing it online. but that wasn't as easy as it sounds. For at the forefront of online capabilities. What's online functionality at all; that was limited What did you get if you couldn't play online? characters. The entire point was to replicate of survivors. The possibility that any stakes to every decision, and you'd each Without the ability to play online, you were had a tendency to walk in circles, overload their couldn't carry any weapons or ammo, and sometimes that you'd have absolutely no idea where it went. #16: Resident Evil 3 (2020) A controversial ranking, perhaps, but Resident sleeve. It pales not only in comparison to the but to 1999's Resident Evil 3: Nemesis. and the soundtrack is appropriately missing - including bosses, entire locations, introduced to take its place, the game ends up its central threat - Nemesis - is reduced to more like an obstacle than a true antagonist. but there's little to keep you coming back the Ghost Survivors modes did. Sure, there's Resident people who don't realize it's more fun to disposable, and an unfortunate misstep for a #15: Resident Evil 5 (2009) You won't find many people citing Resident but it has sold the largest number of copies. ever, and until 2018 it was second only the fact that it was the first proper co-op As a single-player game, Resident Evil Its environments are designed as arenas far more and you'll pull the trigger more in a playthrough of the original Resident Evil. step too far from what the series actually is. Or, less inscrutable and more easily...scruted, but leaning directly into the action and never game? Of course not. Does it make it I wouldn't say that to Chris's face so let's #14: Resident Evil Outbreak File #2 (2004) What's that? A game designed for online play with this basic functionality you are really into every word imaginable, Outbreak File #2 was The result? Well, yeah, it's better, obviously. and it suffers from many of the same issues bit short - usually clocking in at just over an with some genuinely interesting environments. zombie apocalypse? If so, you have but you can fulfill them right here! expansion rather than a full-fledged sequel, it. It's another opportunity to experience the some interchangeable nobodies. It's fun while it #13: Resident Evil: The Umbrella Chronicles (2007) We've seen Resident Evil experiment with its and so far it's gone about as well as Umbrella's shooter for the Wii that finally bucks that trend. The Umbrella Chronicles is a loose retelling Resident Evil, and Resident Evil 3: Nemesis, along the way. Capcom invested a good leaving it to professional death-faker Albert cheese and smarm that should naturally entail. galleries, and does so in a way that actually retelling from the perspective of perhaps the helps. It's also nice to see familiar environments The game isn't perfect. It features mandatory partner you each need to complete the quick-time but the game provided a great foundation for #12: Resident Evil: The Darkside Chronicles (2009) The Darkside Chronicles is a nice step Not enough to climb much further up the a solid sequel of a surprisingly good game. shooters are Resident Evil 2 and Code: Veronica. around Leon Kennedy and Jack Krauser, which as we saw it in Resident Evil 4. It's a wisecracking Wesker, but that works The game works hard to retain a sense of actual, the enemies are more grotesque, and there's an management for games of this genre. The graphics Darkside Chronicles feel like a more serious For a Resident-Evil-themed time killer, you could ask for a proper game, but this was #11: Resident Evil 3: Nemesis (1999) Resident Evil 3: Nemesis is a strange case. true third game in the main series, with there are those who are incorrect. Compared and the sprawling twin campaigns of Resident It follows Jill Valentine as she masterfully pursued by sentient bicep Nemesis. Jill can any given moment, and neither can the player; with each playthrough, as are those of other The bad is that there's not much to the game a series of "stages" than the areas of the and the increased emphasis on combat is at odds deliberately paced first game. but that worked about as well as politely you end up picking your teeth up off the ground. #10: Resident Evil: Revelations 2 (2015) PlayStation Vita, Xbox 360, Xbox One, PC For one good reason, my friends: It's the go and get some fresh air and be eaten by Evil Gaiden? No idea what you're talking about. his daughter Moira pairs up with Claire Redfield, between the horrific adventures of Moira and daughter. He links up with a terrifying child with Like the first Revelations, the game unfolds interesting and complete, even if you have to get There are definitely fans who prefer Revelations it features fan-favorite characters, But there are AI-related issues to contend with, characters are essentially defenseless for most but we don't think it's quite as tightly #9: Resident Evil Zero (2002) In the first Resident Evil, you arrive at STARS team dead or dying. All except who is hiding in a safe room and Resident Evil Zero follows Rebecca in She meets up with a convict named Billy Coen and Is that what fans were hoping for from a Ultimately, Resident Evil Zero is an entirely don't need knowledge of any other games in order It is a flawed entry, however. The lack of item a hassle than usual, the dual-protagonist one character pass a key to the other, and the Rebecca is a great character, though, spotlight outside of this game. It could be far #8: Resident Evil: Revelations (2012) Alright, let's get this out of the way up front: TripleJump Towers right down the middle. Some creeping terror of the earliest Resident masterfully deployed for maximum Honestly, though, we understand both sides of the grotesquerie, and the fact that it since the very first game in the series, it's It does fare much better when compared to year and seemed to indicate that the Revelations kept its focus on actual horror in a stabilizing force, keeping the franchise from scope is more forgivable when you take into For its time and on such a weak system...well, #7: Resident Evil 7: Biohazard (2017) After Resident Evil 6, Capcom had a decision to approach that was proving so successful fans who missed the genuine horror that To the relief of many, they took the latter route. we fought our way through outbreaks around the monsters that it started to feel...familiar. Resident Evil 7: Biohazard put us right back in 1996. We were meeting all of the important to one mysterious location. We were encountering Criticism focused on how little but I think that's exactly why it's so effective Evil game in years. By detaching it it reintroduced the concept of the unknown. know what was hiding in the shadows. #6: Resident Evil (1996) It is impossible to overstate just how in 1996. It genuinely felt like a horror game being anywhere near as atmospheric, In the decades since - yes, decades; you are old a lot of fun. In fact, it's fun in ways we never too busy being tormented by waking nightmares. shaping not only horror games to come, but laying its tropes. Limited ammunition; fragile heroes; alphabet backwards, and do the Hokey-Cokey Look past its rougher edges and you'll still find Just be sure to pick up the Director's Cut, which version, Biohazard, such as lock-on aiming. Be which replaces the soundtrack with #5: Resident Evil - Code: Veronica (2000) Code: Veronica was released for the ill-fated with scores nearly always in the 90% range, many Dreamcasts as were sold, but still. Resident Evil 2; Claire Redfield was searching a lot of monsters who wanted to smooch her, but which takes her from an Umbrella prison all the with Chris, who then gets a campaign of his own. era and it's full of memorable characters, but Capcom has no plans to remake it the way they puzzling when it contains crucial moments in the Chris, and Wesker. If there can be said to Code: Veronica is it. Fitting that it 4. Itchy. Tasty. Okay, okay, sorry. I had to #4: Resident Evil 2 (2019) There's no real debate over whether Resident Evil in the case of Resident Evil 2, there's We are ranking the remake lower much. Both games offer very different kinds is brilliant. It comes down to whether you prefer or the carefully curated horror of the original. you simply cannot go wrong. GET THAT OUT OF HERE. wants from a remake: something that retains as possible, while updating any bits of outdated version while also charting its own territory. being every bit the looming threat he was intimidating enemy. Now, he's an intelligent, engage with the game's puzzles, obstacles, and just barely eclipse it, but it certainly wasn't #3: Resident Evil 2 (1998) There is one specific area in which the and that's the limited way in which the two wins in that regard by a mile. Leon and and your choice of which disc to insert along the way - affect how things will a remarkably clever approach to replayability. Confining the first game to the Spencer Mansion but this game allows the horror to bleed an entire cityfindingitself under siege by the for their own reasons at exactly the wrong time. who makes the experience even more in ways he never could have anticipated. The and there's even a loading-screen fakeout by the first game. It's a perfect sequel, and it #2: Resident Evil 4 (2005) There are those who spurn Resident but because they believe the games that followed but that mindset is UTTER SILLINESS. It's true to create more sequels in its vein. I mean, why and some of my insider video-game contacts have Whatever you think of the later games, though, helped it keep pace with the industry without we were right there in the midst of these detached, distant cameras. The filth and And the fact that the villagers retained the zombies did in previous games lent an Resident Evil 4 indeed represented a shakeup for wasn't always great. But, taken on its own merits, And it's still not the best game #1: Resident Evil (2002) Is there such a thing as a perfect remake? The is. Taking the memorable framework of the very as something that is both recognizable and fresh. original, added more content, and then - just to the entire series: the tragedy of Lisa Trevor. changes and new material don't feel changed the game all along. This isn't the case new features onto it - something I've recently everything that the original already was. hired new voice actors, the remake would well received. It would have been all we could Shinji Mikami - director of the original game - The result is something that's every bit as scary worth of game design experience behind it. What's remake still looks phenomenal today. Mikami and "good enough." They pushed to make every aspect 2002's Resident Evil remake is Mikami's and the highlight of one of the most Not to put too fine a point on And that's every Resident Evil game ranked from Do you think we were unduly harsh on the Game.com? you that last one because they won't return my Ranked From Worst to Best videos, be sure to let suggestions from worst to best! I'm joking, of TripleJump on Twitter here, and while you're having a look at our patreon. Finally, don't for and subscribe to the channel. I'm Benand I'm