I am here in London. It is a bustling Monday morning and I'm about to go meet one Hello. meet and greets. We do. How are you? It's good to have a good handshake. Have we ever met, like, because I've seen you so many times. Vice Versa. Jamie Dimon Since 2005, he's been the head of the world's biggest bank, JP Morgan Chase. He's widely seen as a rock in the storms of 21st century finance and even at times a kind of guardian of the US and global economy. He's a leader and he of stepping up at a time where This country's a lot better off because Jamie Dimon has been running JP Morgan. He's also a highly visible figurehead in the banking world. Always in demand for media appearances where he reliably delivers hot I could care less How trades, wire trades, who trades it. If you're stupid enough to buy it, you'll pay the price for it one day. Dimon always seems to be ready with blunt insight into but I wanted to zoom out and talk about his broader philosophy to learn about the principles of this incredibly influential person, a family man from Queens who's at least as invested in being a dad and a grandpa as he is in So you're on the road, how, how often? I, I say actually we checked last year as like 120 nights or something like that. But some of it's covid catch up. I feel like I need to visit people. Right. And all these conferences are on again. And, and of course I'm here. I do more than just this Do you have any travel hacks? What does that mean? to make your life easier? Yes. Well, I, I try when I land, when I don't get tortured by people. You have a lot of folks This is the Jamie Dimon treatment. Exactly. So how long have Have been at Bloomberg 13 years. Where are you from? Hawaii, yeah. And married. Married children, Four kids. Holy moly. What do you mean? I pretty much had a binary life. I worked and family, so you and red carpets and very So big family life. I know, I've heard How old are your daughters now? 38, 36, 34 and seven and finally a boy. Do you babysit? My wife does more than I do, They come over sleepovers Stuff. Any, any parenting advice? Just love them. Yeah. Yeah. So what do you like Everything. We barbecue, we travel, we listen to music, we do wine. I love my son-in-laws. It's Quite the test going as your future Father-in-Law. They, they have no problem. And God knows if I ever they correct me just like they like fighting me wrong about something. If that sounds modest. Well, there's nothing Professional life. JP Morgan bank by market cap and one of the biggest In 2023, they set a record of any US bank ever. $49.6 billion. It's no exaggeration to say that entire economies depend on this bank. JP Morgan played a crucial during the 2008 financial crisis. The better we do here, the better be for the United States economy And more recently stepped to mitigate the damage from the collapse of Silicon Valley Bank and First Republic. Dimon regularly speaks and presidents around the world and there's been plenty run for office someday. All this translates into a great deal of power and influence. You've built a bank that's $4 trillion in assets and counting. How big is too big? I think the question is and industries and stuff like that? So, you know, if you want you have to be big. You can pretend that you don't. If you wanna do what JP Morgan of money around the world every day. We bank some of these We bank countries, we bank we bank the United States government. You have to be big. You can't I applaud the small banks. We, we are the biggest bank and regional banks and stuff like that. And I understand, you know, some of the stress they're So it's not either or. So going a little bigger picture now, you run the biggest bank in you've got world leaders on speed dial. That's a lot of power. How do you decide when and Yeah, I'm not sure I have so you, you say all that. Sometimes I think I'm and hanging on for deal life. I, you know, I love what I I try to keep my mind open. I, one of the benefits from is just in Mumbai and, and Switzerland and seeing clients, you learn a lot and you try to make sure you're, that you're doing the proper You're that you're looking at the options. You're not like just I look at it as part of our to help countries do the best So we bank countries. We also advise them on skills You look at our research, how does an economy run. So when you go to, like we research 150 companies So we're educating the We're educating the world As we do that, we educate, what works in their economy And those are important You've got this reputation as a sort of white knight for the economy. Do you ever feel pressure I feel a tremendous Obviously my family comes first, okay. But to do a great job for my company and our clients, I also feel a huge burden to do a good job for my country. So, you know, when my country and we talk all the time and regulators, what can we To lift up the country, We're trying to figure out and I do consider that part of our job. You grew up talking finance What was it like growing up Jamie Dimon? What do you think prepared Well, I grew up in Jackson Height, Queens and my grandparents three One was born here. I don't think any of the four finished high school. It was a loud table, people But my parents were, while you know, I was the only that reading the paper, understanding. I bought a stock when I was 12, 13, or 14. You know, they didn't ask So my older brother's a physicist, my other brother's a teacher. And so it was basically make the world a better place, have a purpose in life. It was more around that, but a lot of intellectual debate at the table. Dimon quickly rose right out of Harvard Business School. He became the protege of a legendary banking deal. Dealmaker, Dimon and Weill oversaw a series of through the eighties and Weill forced Dimon out of Citigroup and Dimon struck out on his own. Dimon landed on his of Chicago based bank one by JP Morgan Chase in 2004, Dimon quickly ascended to the top spot. Just a couple years later in 2007, Dimon warned shareholders that the bank was seeing trouble in its subprime mortgage business. When the financial crisis hit. JP Morgan's relatively cautious that they were able to by acquiring the struggling Bear Stearns and Washington Mutual. That saved the government and made chase the biggest Though American banks came in for some well-deserved Dimon emerged as a staunch and the financial system as 224,000 employees. We give healthcare to 4,000 people. We pay $10 million a Over the last five years we've given $600 million to organizations. This is a terrific company. And when I hear the constant vilification of corporate America, I and I'm, I would, I would ask a lot of our folks in government to stop doing it. 'cause I think it's just hurting More crises would follow. In 2012, a rogue JP Morgan whale, lost the company putting the harsh spotlight and calling his leadership into question. But Dimon weathered it all, as other top US banks have gone through multiple CEOs along the way. He became a billionaire, a Many attribute Dimon's as the fortress balance sheet. Essentially he takes the so over-leverage that the bank can't withstand The strategy has been criticized for leaving profits on the table, but it looks pretty smart Going way back, I used to do a presentation on financial crises. You know, going back to those Penn Central commercial paper. The 87 crash. The 90 And if you make a list of all and I'm not making fun of And the best preparation and liquidity, which Dodd-Frank improved. We already had a lot be prepared. You know, you, you can't You gotta be prepared before the fact. When I talk about risk management, it's always about the range and beyond that we talk about you know, I put cyber, you and it does happen and it's Just like, you know, well I'd be surprised I will not. Yeah, it can of factors fall a certain way. So, so the best thing is be Think when you think about that can go terribly wrong. Can you survive them? You it could be government it could be the, literally the weather. If you're a restaurant, you if you know, if you lose this week's business, you're outta business. You have enough cash. So you Bill Gates once said banking To what extent could AI or FinTech replace traditional banks? So I think first of all, I remember him saying banks are dinosaurs. I spoke to him about it in 1997 and he obviously he was dead wrong. He'd probably agree to that That technology changes everything. And if anyone is complacent because you have a big position today, you're gonna have a big position tomorrow. That's a mistake. And, but then you have Someone's gonna have to hold to move the money, someone's So's have to do research, you Those services will still be around and you know, hopefully we're doing it and using a lot of tech But I've always thought it's very possible that some tech thing and I've been writing about, you know, big tech go to our business. We've got FinTech, but and they will embed and some are gonna white label banks, kind of what Apple did. You know they have the right to do that. I'm not against that. of their position to Well Apple is, is going There's no question. bank of Apple? Well I'm, we're gonna compete. So they have a, they but you know, they hold money. Move money. Yeah, they're You know, we also partner with them. But I'm very used to partnering and competing with lots of people. Existential threat. threat, but I think if we Still as with most industries, an AI revolution is coming for finance. The question is how much Some predict AI will enable us to put our money on autopilot, planning your retirement I know you mentioned chat GPT in your annual letter. Have you tried it? Yeah, if I had my phone, I'd show you. What do you, what do you use it for? I just ask you questions I don't remember I'm what's You've got a top-notch What are they up to? What's the next level of finance you think AI can unlock? Yeah, so I think the that it's AI is real. We already have thousands Top scientists around the who ran Carnegie Mellon Machine learning and it's a living, breathing thing. So people want to answer It's a living breathing thing. It's gonna change, there're of models and different types But the way to think about for So errors, trading, hedging, every database, you're So it might be as a copilot Like you know, AI is doing for the most part it's idea generation, it's large language models. It's note taking while And while I was taking notes that, you know, here's the client might be all customer service. It's But it is gonna replace some jobs. Of course. Yeah. But I, to take a deep breath, okay? Technology's always replace jobs. Your children live to a because of technology and working three and a half days a week. So technology's done But you know, planes crash, There are negatives. This one, the biggest negative in by bad people to do bad things. Think of cyber. But you know, the fact, and I do think, you know, around it, it's kind of but it will add a huge value. And you know, for JP Morgan, we hope to redeploy people. So is that gonna be a point and say I have 30 years What should I do with my money? Well the rich quick, I hope it tells you that you're crazy. Yeah, but we in some ways can And you know, usually if you that we have, which I think of AI embedded in that, you know, or analytics embedded in that. And if sooner have more ai, all that AI's gonna do is know more about you, learn more about you look at patterns and you know, look at and yeah, so AI will be a Interesting. Yeah. So do you in our future or? Yeah, you already So 10 years ago I took Gordon Smith and a whole team. I said, you're getting an airplane and you're going to China. And they said, why we're American? I said, go to China, you and Tencent and WeChat and they had all the super apps. I made them come back and do All the services they do, What they do is a whole heck of a lot. WeChat for example, a social network and a widely and has over 1.2 billion active users. The kind of ubiquity can only dream of. So I think in America it I'm gonna call 'em mini super apps. So you might, it's like you with us around money, but It's an adjacency, it's Now we want to offer you great travel and great hotels and great restaurants. And so there are all these that will be, are tech driven and will be increasingly AI driven. What's your biggest AI fear? Well, I think Henry Kissinger, about, you know, if it but it, you know, and that it's deciding who the enemy is. And then, you know, obviously bad guys will use AI and well, No one knows exactly but it's not gonna stop bad guys. So we gotta think through You want to have plenty of Like, you know, maybe it'll of something, this is generated by ai but the bad guys still use it. And the question is how we're gonna, I'm a little concerned about that. While AI is changing, the technology of banking geopolitics is of disruption with tensions between powerful countries and China reaching a boiling point. There are signs, the economic ties that bind the world are starting to fray. Dimon for his part strikes a tone of cautious optimism about current events, but warns that we're living Our conversation took place before the recent outbreak of which he said will create beyond the region. Where's China on the list of risks? When I say geopolitical, It's the, it's the, it's and gas, food migration, The most important one being China. That is the most important And, and obviously Ukraine is affecting it and in fact it's very hard to with China until the Hopefully whether have a victory of some sort. You've said you're presidency, how worried We look, we need good and I think that we need to so important for the world, you know? And so there's a little bit of and you know, no American second, but, but what we need to explain to us and why American security and why our allies rely on that. And if they can't rely on to rely on someone else. And so I just think it's very important. You know, Bob Gates writes of Power about the symphony of power and, and all the soft things, not the military, which we've overused, but diplomacy, development, communication all and obviously economic, trade, And I think we need a better job in that. You're revered for your long-term view. So I'd just like to tick and get a quick sort of one What's your long view on China? It'll be okay, but we leadership to do that. And don't worry we, they're they have a lot of issues. America's got a lot of strains. We should, I like the fact talking to them constantly. Now Crypto, I've always said it's a fraud. There Are so no hope for it. Well if it's, if they think there a currency, there's no hope for it. It's a Ponzi scheme, it's If it's a crypto coin that can a smart contract that has value, there will be smart contracts So the extent crypto is accessing yeah, that might have some value. American leadership, The most important thing for the world in the next a hundred years. Warren Buffet would tell you one of the great things about resiliency, ability to adjust, adjust. I mean we adjusted pretty and then getting outta covid and, and American leadership and you know, autocratic So you gotta look at, yeah, but it also allows change. Dimon is 68 and the question of He received a bonus to stay And while various JP Morgan to be in the running to replace him, nothing official has been announced. Given the success of no one is particularly And for the moment he shows What advice would you give You have to work hard. but, but work smart. You know, a lot of people and they don't think carefully. And there's a great quote, I'm sorry I wrote you such a long letter, I didn't have time to write a short one. That's respect to people, you know, you get your thoughts together, for decision making. Don't allow yourself to Like, you know, or, and don't, don't have it to It works against you. You always have a thought process around and you, and you'll get better over life. You don't have to answer You know, I tell all people, Jade Morgan, everyone should take your their body, their spirit, their soul, their friends, their family, their health. They have to do that. If you mess that up, you know, it makes everything So, and I heard a great who said you can have it all, you just can have it all at the same time. I like that advice. Yeah. What else do you wanna aside from making your bank succeed? Most important family and I have three wonderful Seven great-grandkids. That that is the most important, you know, second most important is my country, the United States of America. I'm a red-blooded, full throated patriot and, and don't misunderstand that. And so therefore that is a and my country stand. The company stands behind And then in the inside the company just, I just hope people say, the son of a bitch when he is gone. And he made the world a better place and he created opportunity and for all of us and our clients. You're sure you're I'm pretty sure I just spoke to some who said if you ran, they'd come back. I got four more votes.