Speed up, who is playing the drums? My lord, we are wronged, wronged, wronged, wronged, Master Qi, what do you want me to do? I caught a goose thief and asked the county master to be the master of our Feng family. Why bother you, old man, with such a trivial matter? Come here in person, sir. The Feng family framed us. We didn't steal their geese. They were wronged. Look, you're calling a thief and you're calling for a thief. Why don't you catch him? Yes, yes, come on. Drag him in. Sir, sir, sir, It's unjust, my lord, let him go, lord, no, sir, I can't sell him to death. My lord, drag this crazy woman out for a walk. Mother, you are unjust. My lord, my lord, my lord, you can eat something delicious if you want. Is this money enough? Enough, enough. Even the most expensive food and drinks in our shop are enough for you to eat for more than a dozen meals. Then please invite everyone here to eat together. But wait until all these money is spent. Girl, you are really good. The God of Wealth has come down to earth. Thank you for your kindness, girl. Then I will save this kid from losing money and avoid disaster. I'll keep this for you first. Don't worry, I don't care about it. Something happened. Go and see what's going on. Let's go and see. Let's go. Get out of the way, get out of the way, get out of the way, look at what you are looking at, get out of the way, get out of the way, get out of the way, Master Jade Emperor of Heaven, please show me your spirit, go away quickly, go away quickly, our family's Ah Si was wronged, we really didn't steal the goose, I'm going to the sky I swear that if I tell you a lie, the sky will strike you like lightning and tell you that the true god of this three-acre land in Foshan is my master, the great steward , the great steward. For the sake of my father and fellow villagers, please let us go. Let Ah Si go back and ask him to bring you the land deed. Isn't it okay? Let go of the toast and don't eat the fine wine. Now I think of begging for mercy. It's too late. I just want everyone to see who made our Feng family unhappy. Waiter, what's going on outside? Girl, I see you're from out of town. I advise you not to ask. Let's finish our meal and continue on our way. Can't we ask about things in Foshan Town? The waiter is here. Come on. It's unjust, Sir Zhong Asi, are you going to recruit me? I really didn't steal the goose. Keep beating me. I said, this Zhong Asi, he is destined to have this calamity in his life. I guess this time he will never recover. It's unfair. , Sir, you, you, you, what did you want to do and you turned against me? Put it down for me. Don't you believe us? Don't believe me? Well, I'll prove it to you. I'll prove it to you. Who are you trying to scare? A cunning man like you. Master, I've seen too many things. If you have the ability, do it for me. Mom, do n't do it. Mom , don't dare to ask you two. There are several families here with the surname Feng. There are several families with the surname Feng. This is the only family in Foshan Town except Mr. Feng. Father and son, who is worthy of the surname Feng? Zhong Ah Si is Mr. Feng's enemy. What kind of enemy? He is just an ignorant village lady. The enemy of the Feng family. The grass on the grave has grown three feet high. Do you dare to ask? How did Zhong Asi offend Mr. Feng? I said, girl, why are you asking about this? Don't meddle in other people's business. Be careful of getting angry and get burned. It's a coincidence that I like to meddle in other people's business. I do n't care if I have trouble sleeping or eating. Girl, if you have something to say, you can talk. It's easy to say, I have something to say. I forgot to tell you that I was a murderous thief. Now I have changed my ways and started to do business. I need 10,000 taels of silver to sell goods. But I am short of capital, so I have to borrow 5,000 taels of silver from each of you. Girl, do n't tell me. I don't have five thousand and fifty. Miss, please forgive me. I have no money. That's easy. Tell me what happened just now in detail. The more detailed and clear it is, then I won't borrow money from that person. The ten thousand taels of silver will be left somewhere else. I said to one of them, I said, I said, I said, I said, I said, have we already told you that our vegetable plot will not be sold, but I will sell it? Tell you, I am here to catch a thief. What do you mean? If you throw away our master's goose, let me search you. What are you doing? Go ahead and do what you are doing. Stop it. Why are you searching? What evidence do you have? We didn't steal your goose at all. Don't worry, there will be evidence. Master Qi didn't find the goose , but he found this Ah Si. What is this? How do I know this? Yes, folks, shouldn't goose feathers grow on the goose? In fact, the reason is very simple. It must be that you ate the goose. This is Three-year-old children know the truth. You are talking nonsense. Come here, let me arrest them and send them to the Yamen. Let me go. Let me go. What are you doing? You let him go. What are you doing? Let me go. There is no reason to bully others. Girl, please don't be messy. Saying this, this restaurant belongs to the Feng family, and 80% of the business on this street is theirs. They have offended their father and son. They will die miserably. Isn't there no king's law? Mr. Feng, the king's law, is the king's law. , It's dead, it's dead, Mr. Beidi, look at this, this is a snail, this is not a goose. Our mistress didn't eat the goose. Look at me, I have evidence. I have evidence. It's so miserable. With one click of the knife, my intestines flowed out. The blood almost came out. It splashed all over me and scared me to death. Sister-in-law Zhong also lost her mind and went crazy. She laughed strangely. There was no goose meat in such a big opening in the child's belly. It was just a few snails. Yes, just a few snails. I think that kid is definitely not going to survive. Get out of the way, get out of the way, get out of the way, get out of the way. Crazy, crazy. This [ __ ] is really crazy. Master Qi, a life has been caused. What should we do now? What should we do? We are not the ones to kill people. We are here to catch the thief who stole the goose for the master. Besides, it has nothing to do with us. But, the kid has the goose feather in his house. The mistress has not eaten it, and one of the two brothers has eaten it. Do you understand? I understand, Master Qi. That kid is about to run, let me catch up, catch up, stop, don't run, stop, stop, get out of the way, get out of the way, stop , stop, quickly see that kid just now didn't eat, didn't eat, didn't eat, you see, this is a snail, this is a snail. It's a snail, it's a snail. Our mistress didn't steal the goose. Our mistress didn't steal the goose. Look, it's really a snail. It's a snail. It's a snail. The empress is so pitiful. Get out of the way , get out of the way, get out of the way. , come on, look at who our mistress is not eating! Who is meddling in other people's business here? Come out, you go up and bury your brother, take good care of me, girl, where are you going to seek revenge from someone named Feng? Foshan is so big, you and me. If you are not familiar with the place, how long will it take for you to find it? Then forget it. I have an idea. Just wait and wait. Aren't there all the industries with the surname Feng around here? Let's just call them one by one. I don't believe it. He doesn't. Who dares to cause trouble in Mr. Feng's territory? He hasn't even asked the girl for his name yet. If he is beaten to death in a moment, we two will go to the underworld to say hello. You first say that your surname is Fengmao. Then we are really destined. Even the names are so similar. My surname is steamed and my given name is Fengzhao. I'll kill you. Hero, spare your life. You're the cook, right? I'm here just in time. I have something to ask. Where is the biggest industry of the Feng family in this city? It's called the Hero Restaurant. Qiankun Street is the Hero's Pawn. Go east. Three more intersections is the Heroes' Guild Hall. I understand , uncle, all the money is here. You have counted it slowly. Six dogs are worth six thousand taels of silver. There is also a court tribute. You, a dignified hero, can pawn a large court tribute no matter what. Are these vicious dogs worth money? You're worth three thousand taels. You're worth three thousand taels. Damn it, it's whatever the uncle says. Why do n't you hurry up and get it? What are you doing? Come and write me a pawn ticket. I say you write that today, the six servants of the Feng Mansion will pay one of them a pawn of nine thousand two years of silver and two cents of interest. The redemption will be redeemed by the ticket. If you suffer from war and fire, everyone will have their destiny. No arguments can be made. It lasts for one year, and when it is not redeemed , bet single and bet double, buy and leave , bet single and double, buy and leave. Come on, even, double, double, double, double, four, four, six, double win. Lots of money. I said bet on double , let's see. Come, come, come, raise it. I'm sure it's gone. Brother Zhan, please give me so much money. Bet on single, bet on double. Bet on single, bet on double. Bet on single, bet on double. Bet on single, bet on double. Bet on double. Double , double. Open the snake skin sheet. , Snake Skin Zhang, what's going on? You two guys want to play a good game, at least thirty liang, bet limit? There is no limit bet in Nan Batian's venue. How can it be the Hero Club? Look, I'll tell you. Mr. Feng's place has absolutely no limit on bets. If there is a limit on bets, wouldn't it be like a bear club? Come and come, place bets, place bets, buy and leave, bet on odd and even, buy and leave, come and place your bets. It's good to place a bet of one thousand taels on Snake Skin. Really, one thousand taels. Really one thousand taels. It seems that we are lucky. Mr. Feng specially gave us money. Mr. Baoguan Feng How much more money do I have to give away? I want to play again. My pants are all lost. The whole casino is not enough to give away snake skins. All the money is double. Let's give it. Give it to me. Young master, then. You boy, you really have a problem. You see, so many of our brothers can't get along with each other at all. And that girl is also very good at me. I remember that one of them is called Steaming Phoenix Claws and the other is called Plucking Phoenix Feathers. You're a wimp and it's faster if you don't prepare a horse . Come on, come on, sir, you have thought about it. If you accept the bet and lose, it's a win-win situation. It's a win-win situation. It's a double. You kid actually cheated on me and you thought I didn't know. You've eaten the heart of a bear and the courage of a leopard. You two dare. Why are you acting wild in my territory? Is the Hero Club going to default on the debt? You can renege on the debt if you want. Then don't call it the Hero Club and call it the Bear Club. It's not difficult to ask for money. But you have to show me your hands and show them to you. Go back and call your dad. Come on, don't cry when you lose, but no one will coax you. If you dare to bet, kid, I'll give you a chance. If you don't tell me, I'm bullying you, how can you compare your bets with a single hand? Xiao, do as you like, then it will be smaller first and then not smaller. If you lose, we haven't shaken you yet. Can you still be smaller? It turns out that a master has learned the lesson twice and you are still dumbfounded. What are you doing to me? If you lose, you want to deny your Feng family's credit. Is it an ancestral tradition? Give me back the phoenix meat. You dare to beat me up? What phoenix meat? Please let me go quickly or I will let my father kill your whole family. Good man, good man, please show mercy. This is us. This is our Master Feng's only son. Mr. Feng, treat him as if he is life. Good man, you. If you need money, just say so. Please let our young master go. Who can let him eat our phoenix meat as he pleases? He is the only son of Master Feng, so he can eat other people's food as he pleases. Girl, the heroine made fun of this day. Where is the phoenix meat down there? Even our young master will definitely not eat your phoenix meat secretly. This phoenix meat is priceless and a great tonic. As soon as he eats it, his face will turn red. You see his face is so red and you still say he doesn't have it. You are a good man eating it . You made this swollen. This has nothing to do with phoenix meat. Brother Zhan, this is difficult to deal with. I said he ate it and he said he didn't eat it. It's fair to say it's public, but it's right for mother-in-law to say it. What should we do if it makes sense? Why do n't we go to Beidi Temple together to find Mr. Beidi to judge the reason ? Brother Zhan is right. No, no, no, no, good man. You are right. We were wrong. You said how you want to compensate us. How to compensate, how to compensate, just like how the Zhong family compensated the master. Something bad happened to the master. The young master was taken away. Today, in front of Mr. Beidi and the people of Foshan, spit out the phoenix meat you ate. I'll go. You, you bastard, if I don't crush you two [ __ ] men and women to ashes today, and cut them into pieces so that you can talk tough, I will kill you today. The prestige of the Feng family is the young master of the Feng family. The young master of the Feng family. If anyone dares to hit the young master of the Feng family, I will Aren't you dazzled? What happened today? The sun came out from the west or Master Beidi showed up. This is really too old to cause trouble. Get out of the way. Get out of the way. You guys dare to come to me in Foshan Town. This Fengqi is useless. What are you saying? Quickly kill them both. Quickly save the young master and kill them. Kill them. Get up and get up for me. Get up for me. You are a bunch of rubbish. Get out of the way. Get out of the way. Young Master. I thought your father was the best in Foshan. The character didn't expect that he couldn't even save his own son's life, so there's no point in keeping you two alive. Just kill them with one knife. Two heroes, two heroes. Spare your life. The younger one was confused for a moment and didn't recognize Taishan. Please forgive me, two heroes. You are a small dog. Shut up. You are a dog slave. You have completely disgraced the Feng family. The young master is a man who can bend and stretch. He can no longer be tough-minded. This head has moved. The two heroes are all members of the martial arts community. Please invite me. You adults don't care about the villain's mistakes. What kind of people are you in the world who bully the good? You have tainted the two words &quot;martial arts&quot; in the fish and meat village. I am shameless, obscene and despicable. As long as you are willing to spare my young master, I will call him to Zhong A immediately. Four to make amends