In mid-April, I'm excited to see a new male kestrel around the ashwood. He seems to have set up his territory here and I name him Apollo. He's looking for a place to nest. But there's one thing this young male is missing, a female to produce a brood of chicks. He sits in the entrance and and eventually manages to attract a potential mate. But this nest has been occupied by a barn owl while he was away, so the kestrels Apollo, so keen, is checking out all the and visiting the nests further and some of the residents don't In spring, competition for the nest sites is fierce, so I'm working around the clock and soon I will have another nest ready. So this is going to be the So it's going to actually slot in here. This new addition is immediately popular with the locals, which wasn't part stock doves, and even one of the resident tawny owls. But thankfully Apollo soon stakes his claim. He immediately takes a liking to the nest but He tries to call her into the nest, but she just won't come inside. Despite his best efforts the young female seems reluctant. She leaves and Apollo is alone once again. But this determined kestrel doesn't and the very next morning He forms a nest scrape; a shallow This helps show a female that the nest is perfect and soon his hard work pays off. Apollo He heads in and seems to be expecting company and soon a new female arrives. Apollo can barely contain himself, This is Athena and I can tell by her slightly She checks out the young male before heading off. He calls hopefully, I suspect But he seems to have done something and she enters the nest to have a closer look. She seems a bit unsure about my cameras but she seems to like the nest. Food is a huge part of the courtship process in kestrels. So next, and she's quick to take his offering. It's still early stages but it's looking quite I spot her in the nest entrance. She spends the whole day here but One of the tawny owls is back to The kestrel's keen to defend a new home lashing out with her talons but she loses her footing. Thankfully she's undeterred by the ordeal. She even digs a nest scrape of her own. Athena is older and more experienced than Apollo and she's keen to ensure her mate knows his role. During courtship the male kestrels provide the females with food, but recently his contributions haven't been very substantial. She's not impressed and calls furiously at him but as he tries to leave she blocks the exit. He seems stressed, unable to escape but eventually, she gives way. It appears a message has got through Food has been hard to come by so he's got his work cut out providing for two, but soon I spot the pair mating just off-camera. By mid-May Athena is ready. She digs a final nest scrape In the morning, Apollo returns to see his mate but instead sees their egg After all this hard work it's so heartwarming to watch as he settles down From young bachelor to hard-working and it'll be fascinating to watch This egg was laid yesterday but Kestrels typically lay about five eggs so and settles in. She even starts to dig a In the morning she reveals a second Now apollo is back to guard the nest, and he heads inside to take a look. He settles down to brood. Incubation duties are shared between the couple but full-time brooding doesn't Kestrels lay eggs every two days, so She heads inside perhaps sensing She settles in over her clutch and within five minutes the third egg is laid. This is astonishing. Laying As the sun rises, Athena comes When Apollo returns, there's It's almost as if he's trying to count them. Over the next six days, Athena lays a fourth and a fifth egg, and it's just magic to watch as Apollo checks on them. I can tell the clutch is complete because Kestrel pairs brood in shifts and Athena As she enters the nest she calls but even when it comes off the eggs she blocks the exit. Apollo just can't win and this isn't Eventually, Athena moves in to brood the eggs. Apollo takes his chance to escape and But there's no love lost between the pair and It's now only a few days before the It's a barn owl and it jumps inside. The kestrel eyes up the intruder and leaps to the entrance to defend her eggs. The barn owl lunges but Athena holds it off, Now she's on the attack, rushing With the threat gone, the eggs are safe again. It's not long before the first chick is Athena can feel it bristling and as the chick emerges, you It's incredible to get this insight When Athena leaves the nest a few hours This hard-working kestrel is now as he sees his chick for the very first going to be fascinating to see how Apollo The first chick has just hatched and His first task is to learn how to take food. After a bit of encouragement from mum it opens its beak and starts to call, which is great to see. It weighs only 16 That night, Athena is woken by a noise outside the nest. It's a barn owl trying to get inside. It hops onto the ledge, but Athena She returns to her clutch and encourages the tiny chick back There's no harm done. In the morning Athena leaves the nest, Apollo soon comes in to He tries his best to brood but he doesn't share the task of brooding eggs but now This pair are still finding their feet. Athena While Apollo is tasked with hunting, keep them warm, and protect them from their own duties, they're going to be Athena's role is non-stop. Later that day she's put to task with a new threat outside the nest. It's a stock dove wanting a look inside. But faced with an angry kestrel mother, it thinks twice and quickly retreats. Only half an hour later a quiet cheeping signals the arrival of another hatchling. The third chick is breaking out of its Athena sets off to stretch her wings, and like Evening sets in and Athena gets some well-deserved sleep but she's soon woken by the barn owl. She sees off the threat and returns to the chicks. She really is a formidable mother Two days later all their hard work pays off. She returns with a worm and it's so heartwarming to watch as she feeds them. This kestrel pair are now working so well as a team. Athena is such a caring mother and she defends the chicks fiercely and first-time dad Apollo is really Apollo's job is to provide food while Athena defends the nest and cares for looking after these chicks but this isn't her only concern. As night falls there's an unwanted visitor. A barn owl. Athena sees off the intruder in In the morning, Apollo arrives with a sparrow, she snatches it from him and calls furiously. The chicks are hungry too and They'll need more than this Prey items have been scarce this year after a cold dry spring, so I'm keeping a close eye on them. Later Athena waits expectantly for her mate. Apollo is trying his best but the smallest It's only a few days old and I'm In the morning there's another an interfering jackdaw. Athena rushes This constant vigilance is taking its toll. She's on edge, even irritated by When she leaves the chicks, it's clear It's pale and breathing heavily. If it doesn't get food soon it will die. but he's got nothing to feed the family Six hours later this three-day-old chick has perished. Food is in such short supply It's just heartbreaking. Athena should be keeping the chicks warm but after this, she decides to take matters She's not the first back, Apollo The chicks can't feed themselves yet. This job just isn't part of his skillset so he leaves the nest. There's no sign of Athena and with the chicks calling it him, he comes back inside. He tries feeding them himself but he He goes to leave but stalls again. He doesn't want to leave the chicks unguarded and instead waits for Athena's return. When she comes back empty-handed she's pleased to see the rat and soon gets to work. Over the next few days Apollo bringing in food around the clock. This includes sparrows and even a baby blue tit. He's but he's out of his depth when Athena's not around. Rodents, their favoured food, seem and only a day later the chicks don't look their parents search for prey, and the fourth chick is struggling from a lack of food and warmth. I'm not willing to let another chick die without a fight so I head up to the ashwood to see if I can help. I open up the box and gently remove the chick. Right, I've got this little kestrel chick and it's so put it on a heat pad and then I Right, it's feeling warmer now so rehydration fluids down it and see Just a few drops at a time, but Despite my best efforts, the tiny Now only three chicks remain but Apollo and I'm able to lend a helping hand and in no time the chicks are looking healthy again. Apollo and Athena have worked so hard They've had to make tough decisions balancing the need to keep the chicks either warm or fed. But thanks to their determination These three chicks have survived, and they're well on the way to becoming strong young kestrels. These three fluffy chicks are only two weeks old and are already left alone for much of the time. Their parents Apollo and Athena now Despite their age, these and they're already becoming feisty just like Now at nearly three weeks old, they're Young kestrels fledge 30 days after so incredibly, these chicks will The eldest chick is so inquisitive barging past its siblings as it tries to explore. Only a few hours later, the chick but it doesn't venture far and it's soon back in. This eldest chick is only a day older than It spends time removing its fluffy It even grapples at the nest floor, Kestrels use their sharp talons to catch their prey, so these skills will be Although the chicks are developing well unwelcome squirrel visits the nest it's clear Over the next few days, they grow rapidly. They're taking the first look at the world outside and even the younger chicks Now at 28 days old, they're So today is ringing day for the ashwood kestrels, so I'm going to head up there and get them down and we're going to get some ID rings put their growing feathers, but I'm going to have to be careful... kestrel chicks can be feisty. One is grabbing me with its talons! Fierce little characters. Alright, we've got a bucket of feeling a really good weight, it's going to be and see how they're getting on. Jean Thorpe runs a local wildlife rescue centre. Jean's a trained and licensed bird ringer and I can lend a hand. Let's start with this one because that was the most difficult one to catch earlier. Ringing the chicks doesn't hurt them in any way and the unique ring number is added to a national database so the birds can be identified in the future. After the ring is fitted, it's time to weigh the BTO, contributing to important information So these young kestrels have had quite because of a lack of food but every day as well to help them out and So that's all the kestrel's running, So if we see them in the future we can actually know who they are if we can get a little indication of reading this number. So that's another great job done. Another three wild kestrels that are going to fledge very soon. The chicks settle in quickly and the displaying its shiny new ring. The next day the chicks are full of The eldest chick has lost nearly all of its down now. It's looking so restless, I think it All of the chicks are becoming more feisty. down to try and steal a bite. They're now and they'll need to be to The following morning all The oldest chick is now 31 days leaving the nest for the first time is known Just off-camera, it flaps its wings vigorously It's just amazing to see the Now that it's fledged I'm keen So armed with a camera I head up to Ashwood. I find the chick perched in a tree near the nest. So the young kestrels are fledging and I've Absolutely great to see them out and about. are still surveying the world from the The fledgling soon returns and it's fabulous to watch Spurred on by their sibling, the remaining And soon, now at 33 days old, it's The second chick hops outside and 20 minutes later the third fledges too. But this isn't the last I see All the kestrel chicks have fledged now so I'm going to see if I can So the young kestrels are spending quite a bit of time in this branch so I'm going to pop a bit of food on the back of it and get a camera on here, and hopefully get some footage. It's Athena that's first to visit and These chicks have fledged now and will But for the first month, they'll hang around It's been incredible to watch this kestrel family. Apollo and Athena have come such a And despite it being such a hard year, Thanks to their hard work, these chicks have Thank you for watching and I hope you enjoyed the video. Don't forget to like, comment, and subscribe to see more. Here's a taste of what you'll enjoy seeing on this channel.