(upbeat music) - [Reporter] This is Duolingo. Around 34 million people use every single day, some for well over a decade, making the company around and making it one of in Apple's App Store for the past decade. And yet. - Most people who use Duolingo do not pay. - [Reporter] All of its lessons are completely free to access. Only around 9% of its users pay and less than 8% of its So, how does a free educational app manage to also have a valuation of $7.7 billion? And is the company's strategy sustainable? The answer lies in AI, A/B testing, and this little green owl. This is the economics of Duolingo. (phone pings) If you've ever used Duolingo, you'll have noticed it's less like a and a lot more like a game. Users have lives. Get five answers wrong in a day and you'll run out of lives for that day. Lessons have progress bars Players gain experience points and streaks encourage The company says that's some three million users - When we launched, we had a thing that was mobile, free, and fun, and because of that, very quickly it overtook all - [Reporter] But before long, with its mission to try and - One of our board members who had just invested in Duolingo, she said, &quot;Look, you You gotta make revenue.&quot; - We had not given ourselves permission to make any money from our app. It's hard to build up new - We were in a bit of a pickle to be a free way to learn languages. - [Reporter] So, in 2017, the company introduced advertising, which now accounts for It also launched a subscription tier where users could pay $10 a month to remove ads and get unlimited lives. The company went public and saw a boom during the pandemic as users practiced languages Today, analysts say Duolingo than its main rival Babble by downloads with some eight million users who are now paying for the app. And while that's only a small fraction of its overall user base. - The majority of the money is made from this, you know, under They give us about 80% of our revenue. - [Reporter] But while Duolingo's growth through gamification and subscriptions may seem pretty simple, there's a lot more going Every move the company makes down to the pixel, tested on unknown users, and refined using AI, and constant tweaks to its app. - Whenever people are using the app, we measure how long they use it for, do they come back the next day, et cetera. And we try a lot of things. We try, when do we send what we say in the notification? Do we make the lessons a little harder? Do we make them a little easier, a little longer, a little shorter? - [Reporter] Take Duolingo's If you forget to do your lessons and risk ending your streak, you'll get a little notification from Duo, the company's mascot, reminding you to return to the app. The messages on the push notifications started out simple enough, but quickly evolved to (bright music) including one particularly - We decided that the last was telling you, &quot;Hey, these notifications We're gonna stop sending them for now.&quot; Sending that got people to come back a lot because they felt guilty. It's like your mother telling you like, &quot;Okay, well, I'll stop, - [Reporter] Duolingo says that this led to a 3% rise in retention. But crucially, the aren't the same as everybody else's. - AI is used to start figuring out basically, like, which ones for particular users or at particular times of day or whatever and letting the more and then get sent to more people. - [Reporter] To figure out Duolingo built something named after a reference a term for a slot machine in a casino. - Say there are, you know, In this case, think of them as several different notifications And we've tried each and seen what it paid out each time. So, we have limited information about all these different options. And so the algorithm has to figure out, do I just go back to the one that has so far given me the most money and just go back to that one every time? Or how do I balance that with to see maybe they're actually better, but I just got a little unlucky earlier? And each time we send out a notification, we track, did it work? Basically, did they come back to Duolingo, do their daily practice? - [Reporter] For example, that the notification time for the language you're learning worked better on Chinese - It's mostly chosen by AI. We must have about a that we can send you. They're written by people and some of them are also written by AI. - [Reporter] And that to Duolingo's success. The company gets so much data back from those attempting its free lessons that it has a huge database of information that it can feed to its AI algorithms. - They do something like 13 We are throwing all that data to AI and using that to personalize the learning experience for everyone to make sure people are and staying engaged. - [Reporter] At any given moment, the company is running hundreds where one user is given a to see which one wins out. Some of the tests are AI And for most tests, around as unknowing guinea pigs. - I don't know how many A/B It's probably more than 10,000. We've A/B tested our way into into getting more people to use Duolingo, more people to recommend it So, without having run those, we would not be a successful company. I'm certain of that. - [Reporter] So, if Duolingo's algorithms and A/B testing mean that the company knows exactly why are subscriptions only at 8%, and could they be higher? After all, while the company may have 12 times more analysts say its revenue is of its rival. - We could tomorrow massively increase the fraction of subscribers For example, right now, you get one ad at the end of a lesson. We could play five ads That would get a lot We could maybe even force And it is true, we would However, that would - [Reporter] But analysts say that while Duolingo's may have been achieved by giving away much of that growth strategy may start to slow, especially as some users leave the app after mastering a language And that may lead to Duolingo of paying customers. So, the company is exploring some new ways to get users to part with their cash. It's new AI-powered Duolingo Max tier costs around $30 a month and allows players to role something the company had previously tried to offer with humans. - We would say, &quot;Okay, that if you could, on and you could have another be able to practice, you would use it?&quot; And they'd say, &quot;Sure, I would use it.&quot; We even asked, &quot;Would you pay for it?&quot; Like, &quot;Oh, sure, I would pay for it.&quot; And then came the very revealing question. We'd say, &quot;Okay, do you 100% of people would say, What I love about AI is that people don't feel even though it actually is judging them. But who cares, right? It's an AI. It's not another human. - [Reporter] But for now at least, Duolingo says it will continue giving away most of its product for free. (gentle music)