If you've ever ridden a bike, driven a car, or there's a fact you've probably taken for granted: the span between seeing a stationary hazard to recognize it, apply the brakes, and come distance is greater than your stopping distance; requirement for nearly all human-operated Engineers can see just as far as the rest of us, train can be upwards of a mile. That means if an it's often already too late. So, trains need a deficiency. For one: trains almost always have the the same level, or at grade. The cars have to at grade crossings to enforce that right-of-way these devices have to detect the impending arrival the tracks or come to a stop. It sounds simple, I think, really interesting, and of course, I video is part of my series on railroads, so check I'm Grady, and this is Practical Engineering. It's inevitable that roads cross railroad tracks, and it's just not feasible to build a there are over 200,000 grade crossings where car to a freight train is an aluminum can big disparity in weight. So we've put a lot of and pedestrians safe from the trains that can't stopped for a train at a crossing, but you may not Of course, the locomotives at the front of trains bright headlights, smaller flashing ditch horn. The standard pattern at a crossing is two But the crossing has warnings too. Passive train. They include a stop or yield signs, the a railroad crossing, and sometimes a plate saying look for one train or many. Another crossbuck is sure you know what's coming up. Many low-traffic leaving it up to the driver to look out for trains demand a little less margin for error. That's A typical grade crossing features both a train is coming: red lights flash, a and usually a gate drops across oncoming but there's quite a bit of complexity in the wrong are deadly. And the first part Detecting a train is important for grade signals OTHER trains, but that's a topic for another but the simplest take advantage of the and wheels themselves. A basic track circuit runs relay I'll explain in a minute, and back down its heavy steel wheels and axles, it creates current in the track circuit. That deenergizes devices or signals. But why use an ordinary and an old railroad relay you got off eBay? Let me show you how this works in a real demonstration. On the left, I've hooked up a power supply to the On the right side, I've attached a relay. Let's playing with stuff like this. At its simplest, way to turn something on or off with an electrical it acts as an electromagnet, pulling a lever you can see the movement interacting with several here, but these contacts are like switches will be switched on when the relay is energized, energized or de-energized, it basically flips devices, like lights, bells, and gate arms, to a simple battery and LED to indicate whether When there's no train, current passes through the coil and holding the switch open so the LED the circuit changes. The wheels and axles create path for current to flow, essentially bypassing closing the switch and lighting the LED to warn the tracks. It all depends on the train giving a if there are leaves or rust on the rails. You can in frequent use. Tracks that haven't seen a train on the first train just in case there is rust that If all this circuitry seems a little convoluted because of how this simple track circuit handles loses power; what happens? The relay deenergizes a train is occupying the tracks. Same thing if and the light comes on. This is called failsafe fail to a known condition. If anything goes wrong, a train coming because it might be true. Fail but the warning devices too. Gates are actively they fall just by gravity alone. And the bells and that can last for hours or days. Most modern train equipment, but relays are still used around the this is called a "vital" relay because of all to fail. You can see it acts slowly so that the tracks can't cycle it on and off over and over; even if the spring breaks; The contacts use And they're just really robust and beefy But even though assuming a train is coming it's not without its own challenges. Warning tenuous confidence to ask of a motorist. We are Every time a grade crossing activates and making motorists more likely to drive around the to make sure that failure is rare. Current leaking or debris can falsely trigger warning devices. So clean and the coarse gravel below the tracks water from pooling up. In addition, even though by shunting current across the tracks, this is But maybe you've spotted a flaw in let me point it out. It's all to do with where close to the crossing on either side, there's no the motorists wouldn't be able to clear the circuit extends far enough beyond the crossing have to sit and wait well after the train is the warning devices turn off. So, instead of a two approaches and an island. Let me show Now I have three track circuits set up with power small gap to avoid an inadvertent connection you can often identify insulated joints used to distinguish if the insulating material but they're often painted to be easy to spot. bit of logic to decide when to turn on the warning fact that I have the coding skills of a civil arduino microcontroller. The model railroad folks see my LEDs as I roll the train along the tracks presence of a train; from approach to island to When a train is detected on either approach devices. The lights flash, bell sounds, and the crossing, it's detected on the island circuit the warning devices. They'll stay on for as long as soon as the island is unoccupied, the warning circuits is still detecting a train). You can see to give some warning time for motorists before keeping them stuck behind gates after the train In the US, the minimum requirement is 20 seconds arrival of a train, but it's typical to see more warning time the better, but it's a balance. impatient and drive around the gates, so more time three-circuit example in the demonstration, the to start the approach circuit. The farther away you get. But the exact time depends on the speed a slow train will provide lots of warning And a train stopped on an approach circuit before down indefinitely. So the next step in grade I put a little acoustic distance sensor on my an oncoming train. The large cardstock cutout better. The arduino measures the distance over and guesses how long it will take the train arrival time is longer than the warning But if an arrival is expected within the You can see if I approach the intersection relatively close to the crossing. And if I speed things up, the anticipating the faster arrival of the train. In the warning time at a crossing will always be it doesn't just solve that problem. If you a train is stopped on the approach circuit, crossing predictor avoids the issue. You can the devices activate assuming the train will arrival time goes effectively to infinity, Of course, actual crossings don't use sonar to they use track circuits with an alternating of the circuit as it travels along the rails, the presence and speed. Sometimes you can even the audible range. AC track circuits are also used susceptible to interference from the traction Another challenge with grade crossings happens are present near the railway. Red lights form the tracks. You should never drive over a railway if you're not paying attention, it can be find yourself inadvertently stopped right on crossings are usually coordinated with automatic the signal goes green to clear Equipment for the most basic track circuits microcontrollers, backup batteries, and more are is easy to spot. In the US, every grade crossing phone number to call if something isn't working so give them a call if you ever see something that these grade crossing systems in action, check for some of the best railfan videos out there. the opinion of many, we could use a few more of trains have to coexist with our other forms a crossbuck, take a moment to appreciate but always quite reliable ways I've talked about what it's like as a motorist satisfying it is to be a train passenger, watching I live, I don't get to take many train rides but I do have a show that scratches the itch: my friend Sam of Wendover Productions. complete challenges using different modes of and what I really love is seeing how all the world. Season 8 is in full swing right but if you want to catch each one as it's You've heard me talk about Nebula before: it's like me. I love YouTube, and it's a perfect but the platform does drive the types of content every video has to be optimized for clickability, not only the content of the videos, but also Just like everything on TV eventually turns into part of YouTube eventually becomes a 15-minute thumbnail. Don't get me wrong, I love a good other stuff too. Shows like Jet Lag, and my with a contractor for a year while they built a but they're also too weird for a big studio The platform has grown so much since I started content and early access to your favorite are a bunch of streaming services right now, and at only $30 for an entire year of access (if you bank. At that price, it's easy to give a do. That link is in the description. Thank you