Folks, you don't understand what The majority of Muslims don't know this, and they'll be shocked to hear They don't know this, they'll be shocked. Now here, a leading Islamic scholar, Islamist, he's not Muslim but he's a leading authority At the center of the town was the shrine with a sacred Black Stone affixed in one corner, What are some of the pagan This is Karen Armstrong: They would kiss the Black Stone which was probably a meteorite Oh, so wait, the pagans before Muhammad used to Now we know why the pagans did She says in that same source, officially there were 360 idols arranged around the Kaaba, Okay, Karen Armstrong, you you're very friendly to Islam, and you Muslims even invite you to and they praise your books, and you admit that Then, who is Allah? If the Kaaba is the shrine of and you can't have a shrine for more The necessary logical inference and conclusion: Allah was the name of Hubal, How do you get around it? And even here, F. E. Peters, in his F. E. Peters, this Muslim Where did this come from? 'Amr brought with him to Mecca an idol called Hubal was one of the Kaaba's greatest idols, so he set it up at the well inside the Thus, a man coming back from a journey would going to his family, and would shave his circumambulate the Kaaba and shave their heads. Here the sources are saying the pagans Folks, is it sinking in? Are you getting it now? Are you ready for the shocker? You thought this blew you away. Did you know that the Muslim scholars to this day That's Chapter 112, Verse 2 of the Quran. If you read it in Arabic, it says &quot;Allahu-Samad&quot;. What does &quot;Samad&quot; mean? They have no idea. Now, here's where you're going to get shocked. If Hubal was actually Baal--pay and the Arab pagans knew that it was Baal, but by Muslims, by Muhammad and his followers, because Then it shouldn't surprise us that certain words marred and confused and lost as time went If Hubal was Baal, and the evidence shows followers tried to disconnect, disassociate Allah then it shouldn't surprise us that that were then taken over by Muslims in reference But if you go back in history and see then it would make sense. Guess what folks, we found an inscription, a Ugaritic inscription with the And &quot;Samad&quot; meant &quot;club&quot;, the lord of the club, Here it is. This comes from Franz Rosenthal. Franz Rosenthal, a scholar of Islam, and he's talking about the Muslims Now he explains why they may have been confused. Let me read: There is enough room for suspicion to permit There we encounter a noteworthy phenomenon, the root &quot;smd&quot; in Ugaritic--that's a Samad appears as a stick or In the Kilu inscription, line 15, we find In the Bible, the adherence of the Israelites to So even the word &quot;Samad&quot; appears in Even in the Old Testament, the verb that use of the verb, doubtlessly reflecting From Arabic sources, we learn that an which brings us rather close Now watch this: In view of this material, the &quot;Samad&quot; in the Quran is a survival of an which may no longer have been understood Did you catch it? Such hesitation is what we'd expect if we are dealing with a pagan survival from Wow, did you catch it? We now have archaeological evidence the lord of the club, because So Hubal comes from Syria, maybe The Moabites worship Baal. Hubal then comes to Mecca. He becomes the chief god of Mecca, of the Kaaba. So that means Hubal would Either &quot;Hubal&quot; or &quot;Baal&quot;, he is Baal. And then &quot;Samad&quot; would have been associated with connection to Baal, they kept &quot;Samad&quot; but did not You with me there? Okay, now let me read Ibn Kathir, the third one of the greatest Muslim scholars, This is in my article. This comes the biography of Muhammad the Prophet Volume 1. Guys, pay attention. It is claimed that when Abdul Muttalib received he vowed that if 10 sons were born to he would sacrifice one of them for the I'm sorry, Allah at the Kaaba. So, notice his vow: if I have 10 sons, I will Do you remember what the person said earlier? Oh yeah, but Baal demanded human sacrifice. Did you catch what Abdul Muttalib Oh yeah, but Baal demanded human Abdul Muttalib promised that he would sacrifice one of his Hubal demanded human sacrifice. Allah demands human sacrifice. Someone's saying, "Oh yeah, "What do you think Jihad is Okay, so now notice: Abdul Muttalib I will sacrifice--kill--one of them to you." Okay, now watch here, watch here. Let's see who's going to see this, Eventually, he had 10 sons, grown protection. Their names were Al-Harith, He assembled them. He assembled them. Let's see who's going to catch this. He assembled them and told them of pledge to God Almighty, Allah, This is in Arabic--it's Allah, God So, he vowed to Allah. Okay, they obeyed and asked He asked each of them to take an arrow, take an Now watch this: remember, he's going They did so and went with him inside Hubal, where there was the well in which There, near Hubal, were seven arrows which some matter of consequence, a question They would come to Hubal to seek a resolution, accepting whatever they were Guys, can you help me understand? Why is he going to the idol Hubal? And why did Ibn Kathir say And why is he asking Hubal whether he can If you made the vow to Allah, why And why did Ibn Kathir say that's the god of his grandfather Okay, now the tradition goes on to say--oops, It goes on to say that the lot fell So, Hubal wanted Abdullah to be killed, right? But then the Quraysh said, "No, no, no. god to see if he'll take camels in his Now watch here, pages 126-127. It's lengthy, but I think it's So, they left for Medina, where they So, they went to a witch. They went to a witch to ask the witch, "How can we appease Allah? How can I Why would you go to a witch, a soothsayer, Are you catching this? I don't know if it's sinking in. What kind of god is Allah that would allow a kahin, who contacts spirits, And this is Ibn Kathir, one of the Okay, so they left for Medina, where they found the diviner whose name That was when they rode off again and Abdul Muttalib telling her of the whole She told him, "Leave me today until my Wow! So, not only do you go to a witch, she In other words, a demon, a Satan. And that demon and Satan will tell And Allah is going to accept it. Allah is going to accept it, folks! Allah is going to allow Abdul Muttalib to go to demon, a spirit--to tell her how to appease Now, what would the true God--Jehovah, for a witch and took the advice of the spirit What would God do--the true God do? Okay, now watch, let's keep going. They left her, and Abdul Muttalib prayed to Allah. So, he's praying to Allah. The next day they went back to her, and she "How much is the blood money "Ten camels," they replied. Then she said, "Okay, go back and present your man Then cast arrows to decide between him and them. If the divining arrows point to him, then add to Keep doing this divining of arrows until Okay, and once it points to the many camels you sacrifice to ransom If it points to the camels, then That way, you will please Please your god and save your man. So, they went back to Mecca. When they had agreed to do so, as she had said, Abdul Muttalib said prayers Then they offered up Abdullah and the ten At that point, the men of the Quraysh told praying to Allah--Hubal, praying to Allah--"It's Wait, earlier it says their god was Hubal, and it says as he's praying to Allah, Here you go, Ibn Ishaq, pages 126-127. Here, at this point, the men of the Quraysh told praying to Allah--in Arabic, it's Allah--"It's all But wait, who's his god? Is it Allah or Hubal? Because earlier, Ibn Kathir told us this. Look what he told us: Ibn Ishaq, they did so and went with him inside the Hold on. Abdul Muttalib prays to Allah by Hubal is said to be his god and the god "It's all over, your god is So, I'm really confused. If his god is Hubal and he's praying to the statue of Hubal and he's before are you trying to convince me that Hubal Can you help me understand? Now, why does Allah accept Abdul and why does Allah accept a demon telling that And why is Abdul Muttalib going before and praying to Allah at the statue of Hubal? And if Allah is his god, why did What's going on here? What's the conclusion, folks? Who is Allah truly? He is Baal, and Baal is the name of Satan. What more proof do you guys need from the that Islam is nothing more than Baal worship in order to entice the people of God like Baal did during the Old Testament period? How many of you are overwhelmed and of you are now convinced Islam is nothing How many of you were not aware of how much and therefore Satan, because Baal