The United States is one of producers. My husband, Mark and I, we the Missouri River in Farms across the country bushels of soybeans in 2022, contributed an average $124 since 2019. Soybean is being used as a It's used as a fuel crop and around the world. Compared to every other crop States, corn and soybeans But soybeans haven't always I'm old enough to remember alternative crop that a few in the 1960s. Soybeans have become an Exports of soybeans have since. Now, the US is the Soybeans' contribution to the day by day. About half of the value of US China. The 2018 trade on a single market for its Farming is a high-risk We don't want all of our China. We need robust reliable demand that carries completely out of our Here's how soybeans became from food production to the Soybeans are primarily grown planting starting sometime harvest beginning in late My husband and I are the our family land. And, you know, we're raising Meagan Kaiser and her fields of corn and soybeans You won't find just a likely because they really with other crops. Changing up where the crops healthy and productive. For example, corn uses a lot soybeans take nitrogen from soil. There's a yield hit from or soybeans. On soybeans, on There's a real benefit to The average soybean years ago in 1980 was 31 Today, that same acre average. Most of the time US soybean crop yields have the past few decades. The yields of soybeans have US and the price has For The first time since planted with soybeans than Soybean makes two main Tofu might be the first food but soy is often a less salad dressings, nutrition foods. And yet, these demand factor. Its primary use is protein Our number one consumer is the livestock industry, even 97% of US soybean meal is chickens, hogs, turkey Global demand for animal supporting the market for In the early 2000s, the US all oilseed crop exports, fraction of that. By 2021, the cash coming in skyrocketed to a whopping Our soybeans are often loaded and then down the A lot of the northern plains the Pacific Northwest, which vessels and head to China is the largest importer making up about 60% of the That goes back 25 years ago started moving their middle rural areas. As they increase their started buying more meat. But if you rewind to 2018, looked a lot different. The stakes are high for him. China is the top buying $14.5 billion worth up a staggering 61% of all The US-China relationship escalated in 2018. Both countries imposed goods, and soybeans were at We've helped rebuild China. Someday they'll say thank The tariffs made U.S. soybeans much more expensive. In turn, there was a sharp that left us farmers with Prices fell, putting Soybean farmers lost over $1 this morning alone when bushel. The government stepped in addition to its subsidies to But China still needed to because it was rebuilding nation needed soybeans as pork industry. The world market has changed beans in the last month. China turned to South particularly Brazil. It happened over 30 or 40 dramatically increased production. Brazil is the producer and exporter. I think that the Brazilians take advantage of this production in Brazil, expand Brazil is a relatively corn and soybeans, in spite that they have. So a lot of into production is in the from maritime transport and soybeans to export markets While the US and China deal in 2020, addressing global agricultural trade In 2021, Brazil became the Brazil's production is still 25 years ago, we had 75% of share for soybeans, roughly share. Today, it's between share. Yet, the total 2022 US were worth $36.4 billion, from soybeans, totaling That was a record. The export market is very cost-competitive with Brazil capture market share. The US is looking for other use its soy product. We worked really hard to look We know that India, for population and also they're foods such as poultry. And you know what? Poultry eats a lot of soy. So the United States is curve and saying, okay, export business to China. So let's develop domestic offset that export business Jilted US farmers come to the more than a billion bushels amount. Many in the industry are alternative uses for soy Another area that we talk products, and I'm holding a It took us five years, but straw that is biodegradable We've partnered with Okabayashi, even Goodyear, ingredient in, you know, Since soybeans have two main there has been an increasing the oil byproduct. Soybean oil is the most the US. Now this oil is used renewable diesel sector. The share of the oil value in of grown in the last couple renewable diesel production. We had more supply of oil way. And so farmers got I wonder if we could use That was the birth of We've learned that we can use reduce our dependency upon Nearly 40% of soybean oil in The Energy Independence and pushed the US to reduce What's happened in the last industry has really shifted that was blended with called renewable diesel. Soybean oil is about half of right now. Renewable diesel is called a Machinery doesn't have to be biofuels don't need a The demand for that is really especially in the state of renewable diesel use to sort footprint of the especially Renewable diesel is probably sustainable aviation fuel. Are we to the point of being without government No, we're not. Our crops suffered. Beans were even a little Farmers are always always better. From geopolitics to adverse distress, commodity markets Weather risk is ever present the price that we pay for grow our food. Soybean farmers use tech like mitigate risks. We're using data from our out to overlay that with our in-season management, and to for next year. Managing expectations of market's outlook. We had some major challenges We did get some timely rains And so we'll once again be the world market. We've come through a few weather-related production areas of the world and we As climates shift and change, parts of the world could for soybean crops. One thing big trend that we mid-1990s is that the US northward. One of the growing areas in the United It's not a traditional has become one because of As an example, in the south, hotter summers in the next What specific varieties need areas within the soybean Changing climates may also routes and disrupt supply Take the Mississippi River How did this happen? An Lack of rain and even last Low water levels have made it commodities. We don't have anywhere to go the middle of harvest. Levels are forcing them to product they can put in a b It increases our freight bit during harvest. In the next ten years, we're generation of farmers and problems that we have today if we can solve that a more probably can't even imagine. While we are a commodity and the end of the day, we're