When Nintendo Switch Sports was revealed, I like we had traveled back in time to an era that These days, the motion control fad is a distant explore them to a much further extent, but those For a while, most had shunned motion controls for or practical as a traditional controller. But motion-based games sold unbelievably well, For the longest time, I just considered motion non-gamers and families. But the more I thought the more I rediscovered my appreciation for it. My favourite console of the sixth-generation was against its competitors. The primary reason for unique experiences you couldn't find anywhere feat in an entirely different way, and it was risky for Nintendo to leave their comfort zone and mistakes along the way, but their trailblazing that video games should just be fun. Fun for into its most successful games, and it ended up for us to interact with our games, and introduced I've both loved and hated the Wii I felt it would be worthwhile to rediscover when the Wii found tremendous success and acclaim. I those motion controls, and see how they enabled On the flipside, I also wanted to figure I wanted to recall those missteps Nintendo legacy it left behind. I'm Liam Triforce A quick thank you to Likewise for sponsoring this which aims to solve the dilemma we face with the to us. There are so many platforms for watching serves as a hub for this content by conveniently favourite stuff is available on. There's no across multiple platforms either, because your serve as the only ones you'll need. Each show and you can also look into other options You can be watching within a click or two. It's on Netflix here in Canada and I'm now" and boom - I'm watching. Same goes for FMA If you feel like checking you can click the link I've provided I've created a few lists of some of my the stuff I used to watch on the Canadian TV We gave you DS, a new Game Boy, And now you say... You want a By simply pulling a new Nintendo console out from as one of the most iconic in Nintendo's history at the company's next console to have a much broader While the GameCube did have the breadth of landmark games in a plethora of genres - it publishers for a number of reasons such its lack of multimedia features like DVD playback, The GameCube's focus was on...well, the games, to its first-party lineup. The experiences exceptional. It hosted definitive games in altogether, resulting in an unmistakably That said, the system was not a must-own for a cross-platform strategy during the sixth narrow focus led them to forego the system the game industry was evolving beyond Nintendo, In May 2002, Hiroshi Yamauchi retired as president He was succeeded by Satoru Iwata, His background was atypical for a corporate games himself, Iwata came from a background of Before joining the board of directors at Nintendo, working on games like Kirby, Earthbound and Laboratory managed to find stability and develop company's future. As a person, Iwata felt like he presented himself, and in how he spoke about games his love of video games with the world drove Realizing that the company would stagnate Sony and Microsoft, Iwata decided to double in a "blue ocean" business strategy. Iwata create an entirely new demographic - rendering He wanted the console to grandparents - basically anyone that wouldn't After several prototypes, the Wii and It might seem ridiculous now to think that people at launch, but believe me when I say that almost They seemed like such a novel concept at the movements in the real world could be translated that the console was built on that, it was of this? What would first-person shooters be I know it's silly now, and the over-acting in even stupider in hindsight, but the possibilities the Wii's astronomical sales figures should speak Revolution - and it had seemingly paid off. The goal of the Wii and its interface was players interact with the console and its Their solution? Well, let me put it this way of a Walmart or Target they have rows of That's what they did with the Wii. I'm sure we all have our own memories with the Wii one that is most relevant here is that my parents It perfectly emulated a motion they were already do was point and click, and the + and - buttons was clever, but the atmosphere was what sold it always seemed to represent the space between games amazed at how the Wii menu managed to carry a Like the electronics department in a supermarket, even display information without you having to the Wii on, you can get a glimpse at the forecast, SD card, questions and possible answers to polls, more. As your digital library expands, so too will life in the Wii menu, and to this day it remains acted as a central hub for everyone in the house, games regularly. But it wasn't just the universal it was the theming - which was tied together The rapid and seemingly random nature of the and it unifies the Wii menu's incessant amount simplicity to the Wii menu in that regard, and I the Wii channels, scroll through my messages, without clicking on anything and just taking you a simple question - what do you want to play? "what do you want to do?" It poses that question but the Wii menu is especially memorable customizability and familiarity it offers. Let's talk about the features of the Wii the following channels would come pre-installed Channel for creating Miis, the Forecast and the Photo Channel for messing around Every game you insert has a little animation which gives you a taste of what's to come. With Bros. Brawl for example, it was enough to get from finally playing a game I'd waited years for, The Forecast and News Channels gave credence to hub for your family. I distinctly remember on the Wii in my room to check the forecast. The but its simplicity brought my family together from but smartphones rendered these channels obsolete That said, it's fun to reflect on the impact The way we go about our days has changed and it's funny to think that something funny filters to photos was an In contrast to the GameCube, which shied the Wii was designed from the very beginning to for the sake of both convenience and fun. Before codes with my friends so that we could play online Message Board. You can even post memos on the I used this feature to provide insightful Most of the system's online services operated on Wii's disc slot to glow blue when in standby or that you'd received something from Nintendo. from the Wii message board, which is...a little to further solidify the Wii as a family hub not I have fond memories of coming home from school blue. It always meant that there was something channels on the Wii that took advantage The "Everybody Votes Channel" would just run polls in, which wasn't anything special, but the "Check I shouldn't have to explain what a Mii is. and Steve Harvey has provided me with hours of most other things on the Wii - is simple and options for just about everything on your Mii's in fact, that people have been able to create Miis of just about any character you showcased this best. You could post your own and it held contests in which people had to This is where most people gained access to the just used a Peter Griffin Mii tutorial off the many Wii games when playing online, you bet I saw Miis allowed for a degree of personal expression has been able to rival today, at least when The point I'm trying to make by showcasing all embraced the possibilities of the Internet in online multiplayer and downloadable games the ups and downs of those things later, these contemporaries attempted and strengthened the Channel for example. It might seem like it only promotional material to your message board, but it You know the "Light Gary" and "Dark Gary" The Nintendo Channel also allowed you to download as frequently as possible. I couldn't buy many chance to try them out. These were elements that and contributed to Nintendo's abstract Some of my fondest memories with the Wii have been Out Channel or watching Mario collect those coins Unfortunately, WiiConnect24 I haven't seen that blue light glow in many that era is a picture of my Mii next to a Rock or something during a contest? I don't know. The only "traditional" thinking when it was through its phenomenal take Matt! - Update day! - New Wii- New Wii titles! - Update day for the Wii Shopping Channel! But it's like 11... By far, the most substantial amount Shop Channel came from the "Virtual Because everybody knows about and everybody loves to shop on it every Wednesday. It allowed you to purchase and download This was one of the major talking points during to eliminate clutter in people's households by past games. So along with the Wii's native nearly all of its peripherals (which allowed those they'd missed out on), you'd also have the option games at your leisure. The service would later go Sega Genesis, Turbografx-16, Neo Geo - even arcade the original Legend of Zelda and Super Mario Shop Channel to whet player's appetites, but new they're weren't many games at first, the service across Nintendo's history - nearly everything I swear, the Wii had the best backwards The PlayStation 3 came close with and its ability to play discs from the previous compatibility hurt its viability in the long run, Store to become as filled out as the Wii Shop Super Mario RPG. Sonic the Hedgehog, Knight's Quest, Dig Dug, Chew Man Fu. Well, you get it. While the Wii Virtual features or customization to speak of, for of the most accessible and legal ways to ...And now it's all gone... While the Switch its price tag now, it took a few years Meanwhile, within seven months, the Wii Virtual for several years to come. On top of that, the The Wii still reigns supreme Now, all of this is what made the Wii such a but it doesn't exactly speak to the Wii's game at the Wii's launch to demonstrate how Previously, Nintendo's pack-in games at When designing the perfect launch game for the both hardware and software developers within the of what a video game could be, which is what I Super Mario 64 had the advantage of being it ran on, but it was the philosophy behind the It wasn't just about 3D graphics, it was freedom to explore and choose your own journey do for video games, and it struck gold. Everyone forever changed. If Nintendo were to sell the Wii they'd better have something similar in the works. Like Super Mario 64, the final game revolutionized But more importantly, it drew people and unified seasoned, casual and new players rely on knowledge of the interactive medium to and it's what most people around the world It's both nostalgic and surreal to be but I've always wanted to know if it truly been true - regardless of our experience with stand an equal chance in nearly all of and I think that is a testament to how it was much of it demonstrated what the Wii was capable As you probably already know, entirely through motion-based inputs. You mimic and that's that. Each sport is made as and the controls are intentionally simple but today than others, but the overall package is In Tennis, the direction, angle and timing of your and your character will move toward the ball order to play the game. The depth in this sport your swings to outsmart your opponent. The it travels. The smarter your angles, the more Let's look at some gameplay and observe how My serve here was rather slow because I didn't hit it was coming down. Force doesn't equate to speed want to violently swing your Wii Remote; it's all and implement than measuring the velocity of each speed across a lot of my gameplay here. Here but because he was at the back of the court and shot with ease. Conversely, I angled my Wii which confused the heck out of my brother Realistically, the controls in this sport could but they are so much more intuitive with a hit. Thanks to the surprising amount I feel Wii Sports: Tennis There are a couple of other sports on the disc First, there's Golf. While I don't think I'd it's pretty effective at demonstrating the Wii's To send the ball toward the hole, you'll need This also means each club will have a different order to learn how much force should be applied. effectively communicate how you can adjust your you need to factor in the terrain when you swing results across most courses if the amount of force resulting in one smooth motion and full While its mechanics are derivative of other Golf look at, the control scheme is what drives the However, the real crowning achievement of was Bowling. Man...everyone in my The controls seem pretty simple at first; all and bowl as you would in real life. Your character The nuance of this sport comes from the ways spin to your throws. Due to the difficulty of it is once again timing-based. The closer your the more spin you'll add to your throw. Not but the skill ceiling is much higher than it together is a physics simulation for the pins, and front. Knocking pins into each other and landing amount of attention to detail in Wii Sports: statement on whether or not it is the best Bowling with one primarily due to the controls. They are rendered actual bowling alleys obsolete within our sport struck between accessibility and skill. It Although it boils down to the luck of draw Baseball feels incredibly When pitching, different kinds of throws come out and the ball will almost always target the strike Also, the force of your throw will affect the baseball. Pitching in Wii Sports is much easier to feel like the real thing and give players a Batting is all about the timing of the swing and The game is usually lenient with allowing the spot between the outfielders or timing is where the depth of this sport lies. Of course, all about hitting and pitching (and in that regard focus on those two elements once again shine between immediate and instinctual controls and the Your proficiency in each sport is and in nearly every sport you can climb I have fond memories of my brother and I on the champion Elisa. I even wrote a memo on This balance between skill and ease-of-use and it's the reason the game However...Nintendo - being the ambitious bunch that showcase the capabilities of their motion game in the collection that requires the Nunchuk enough patience, it requires a level of accuracy nor is it entirely reliable due to the limitations You start by holding the Wii Remote and Nunchuk out jabs. You can block your face and your and positioning them in front of each respective right to dodge. This works pretty well most of the Throwing out a hook means swinging the Wii Remote doesn't always work. I'm not kidding. It says the uppercut, you have to be very specific. You have be a bit finicky. And in order for any of these you have to be precise, but even then - this isn't differently to the controls and everyone has a how much of this is communicated to the player? in the instruction manual, but that's about it. It on YouTube to see if I was doing something punches weren't registering sometimes despite I mean, I eventually picked up on the controls and to that end - Wii Sports: Boxing can hardest game to master on Wii Sports and by far limitations of the Wii Remote. Its ability accommodate for the techniques of all players the problems that the Wii faced throughout Despite its hiccups, Wii Sports left brought people together, regardless I can't speak for anyone else, but based on my own I'm sure the game succeeded It might seem silly to consider Wii but as I've come to appreciate how elegantly it and the shocking amount of skill you could develop Wii Sports changed the way and it was a stellar way for Wii Sports wasn't the only game to reinvent the we received the minigame collection Wii Play. the Wii Remote at the screen and pressing A and B, behind Wii Sports - accessible controls and a was so easy to understand that my Grandpa was in no time. Nearly every minigame has its own with the exception of this cow racing minigame it sideways. Wii Play feels like an introduction but with how addictive and challenging its I find myself coming back to this game Find Mii is essentially just "Where's Waldo?" different variations on what you need to find, and possible to increase the time limit. Pose Mii gets and match the pose without letting the bubbles depth is spread a little thin in comparison to Wii function as expected with the Wii Remote. The minigame playable with the Nunchuk, you have to This is a super effective way to condition players AAA games on the Wii will require the Nunchuk Play comes from its medal system. Depending silver or gold medal. This is why I revisit introductions to the console and the medium at A lot of Wii Play's controls were universal and games like Trauma Center: Second Opinion. This Knife on DS. The story is utterly nonsensical and is more entertaining than any of the game's actual the operations are super engaging and often quite Wii Remote's pointer-based precision can work as you'd tear apart rooms to capture those sneaky physics engine I've seen a Wii game utilize and console. Excite Truck was also a launch game, steer your truck by tilting the Wii Remote as you flip it around while flying through the air to do Truck was unique in that you didn't actually certainly helped. You win a race by racking up mid-race for massive jumps and...yeah, it's an The horizontal, tilt-control setup would become and while it did make the game it was less accurate than an actual steering accommodates for these controls through its wide "tilt control" setup doesn't actually belong to WiiWare puzzle-platformer known as Fluidity. You Metroidvania-esque world that has you solving doors and progress. Fluidity works so well through a single object - you're controlling an entire the terrain, and it uses a full physics simulation and makes the game more fun to play. That, But these games are merely appetizers. If you capabilities of the Wii Remote, WarioWare: Smooth microgames. So long as the controls were be a match made in heaven. This game doesn't just WarioWare: Smooth Moves makes the methods in which Not only do we have the Remote Control, but the Chauffeur, the Sketch the Waiter, the Finger Food, the Mortar and These methods of holding the "Form Baton" aren't the microgames in such a short timespan far more control methods on the fly. Putting both hands on it easier to sweep. The Big Cheese makes it easier Holding it as demonstrated in the "Sketch Artist" simply pointing the Wii Remote at the screen. differences that can allow for different Waiter are so unique that they invite creative possible on the Wii. The game strikes a remarkable despite its complexity. WarioWare's microgames are Because of this, WarioWare: Smooth Moves players to hold the Wii Remote, and it makes When it comes to genres that lend themselves well console like a glove. In contrast to other console into the center of the screen, most first-person the screen to aim, and you'd turn your character screen's edges. This resulted in a very delicate, Games like Medal of Honor: Heroes 2 and especially Call of Duty 4 was unlike the other Call games gave you multiple control options and Call of Duty 4 was exclusively controlled with had to use this control scheme against one very careful and anxious version of Call of I mean, the campaign is awful in this version but the multiplayer is incredible and highly zones and UI, you can bind specific actions to any If you want to throw a grenade with the Nunchuk, Remote, you can. If you want to JUMP by flicking the innards of the game and experiment to your I highly suggest watching my friend LambHoot's Nintendo even introduced a peripheral that which was bundled with Link's Crossbow Training. attempts to further simulate the feeling When you move the Zapper to the left or which feels a little less awkward than playing In my old video on Link's Crossbow Training, I when a game isn't designed for the Zapper Wii Remote and Nunchuk separately. While I said in that video at all about playing fast-paced gameplay in the slightest. Sin and Rail shooters and the Wii were made for each you'll get to that arcade experience. Aside from Star Successor is perhaps the greatest effortlessly it controls. You point at the screen The rest is driven by some tight game design, and a delicious soundtrack. It's a playable My favourite shooter on the Wii, It's a first-person action game hailing from one It's Metroid Prime 3: Corruption. Despite borrowing the framework from early Wii in that they merge the lock-on combat from the the dead zone of your screen. This means that you which many enemies and bosses take advantage Metroid Prime gameplay that we've all come to with the added luxury of the accuracy that the you're locked on or not. It is a seamless blend Metroid Prime and implements the finer accuracy like disarming enemies with the Grapple Beam by 3 were so good that Retro Studios actually went bundling them together as the "Metroid Prime implemented, the GameCube Prime games play like recommend this collection, but it was released in extremely expensive. The trilogy only until it closes in March 2023. Nintendo, have no way of giving you money for them after you guys better make it happen. These Speaking of which, Nintendo actually GameCube games both through their port of and under their "New Play Control!" line. Aiming to - you guessed it - being able to point at with the Wii Remote and parrying with the Nunchuk for what were buttons on the GameCube. Still, it the Wii Remote's concepts into an existing game but some of them for sure, and Nintendo making helped them ship units initially as When it comes to New Play Control, the new Jungle Beat weren't anything special, but the they did on GameCube. All they really did was your Pikmin instead of using an analog stick, Certain games took a very minimalist approach to motion controls as nothing more than replacements horribly gimmicky, other times it would feel Tennis for a second. The game could realistically but it is far more intuitive due to the fact The inputs mimic the actions of real-life tennis, I find that gimmicky Wii controls can without intruding on a game's design. MadWorld MadWorld was Platinum's first game, and it proved from having mature games. Well, I use the term irreverent, and supremely and cartoonishly and graphic novel "Sin City," MadWorld oozes style level is to rack up as many points as possible. can fight the area boss. The more creative you are your victims before killing them, the higher through their head, jam 'em through a tire and There are challenges and multiple opportunities all accompanied by some repulsive commentary and Bob the Builder. No, I'm not kidding. I mean, some moments that'll make you groan, but I suppose behind Happy Tree Friends and the more recent There's nobody left to kill! - What do you mean? shit. Check out my necklace of human ears! vomit! *barfs* Anyway, setting aside the questionable writing, games. Sure, it might get repetitive after a but its scoring system is truly unique the creativity it invites. The motion controls backflip dodge and using objects to maim and mimic the actions taking place on screen. As you Not as much as Manhunt 2 due to this game's less but still enough worth noting. MadWorld was violence. Nintendo should be ashamed of themselves Seriously though - the action I perform in used to rip this dude's heart out. I MadWorld is a fun game, and it showcases how can come together and make gimmicky motion fit right in with the overall experience. No More Heroes is another bloody Wii game that seeps style and personality MOE~ As you can see, you play as a degenerate a hitman aiming to kill other assassins and climb The game is intentionally repetitive. Between around the city, which are meant to be menial The game's sense of humour and and it's a unique vibe worth checking out for fight, which can run out of power. You know Everyone playing this game has to jerk off their Every time. This game fully embraced how The controls don't try to be too ambitious, but from a high or low position depending on how you quick-time events. Like MadWorld, the presentation The boss fights are all marvelously distinct, and the amount of fun to be had all around make Thankfully, this game and its sequel Switch in HD - fully playable with Both of these games shattered the notion that the console, but I think their low sales should audience they were targeting was not interested Nintendo's core gaming audience that stuck alienated by the Wii. While we've been able we've also touched upon some that were...gimmicky. Heroes and how their motion controls can heighten with some of the games I'm about to showcase Super Mario Galaxy. This game was one of the regarded as one of the console's best. It's also game did away with the sandbox approach to level linear missions with oodles of variety and fun the way players evaluate platforming challenges, This game is a miracle of game design, with a a ton of heart, and a soundtrack that still game this is, and yes - it'll get its own These games are so good that you might be Even their pointer based interactions like these sticky things or pushing him through hazards to get upset about their inclusion. I understand had fun with them. There are two elements of this The first is very minor. The spin. When you shake which can be used to stall yourself in mid-air, This action feels natural and requires little and it clearly could have been mapped to a more immediate response. The other element is You tilt the Wii Remote to steer the ball around you'd be hard pressed to find anyone that wouldn't the game, or that Super Mario Galaxy doesn't things be an introduction to the "gimmicky" Another game that uses a motion-based button to undermine its quality. This game is great, and library. The traditionally animated cutscenes make it a joy to look at, and the platforming and accounted for here. The gimmick of the game, single time you want to empty a bag of coins or Country Returns is a triumph in 2D platforming single time you want to roll through enemies and Remote. It gets old REALLY fast. But by far, my is in Mario Super Sluggers. These Mario baseball sport, but this one on the Wii decides to replace motion-based inputs. Other than that, the gameplay rather quickly on its own, if someone skips the a foul and you were previously shaking the Wii accidentally pitch or swing immediately after. Here's the thing. If introducing motion control medium as a whole, I am all for it. Games like Wii proved that there was still room for Wii Sports managed to bind the multiple inputs which made the game far more intuitive to control WarioWare: Smooth Moves showed us how holding actually impact the way we play. A lot of people as a concept now, and there are legitimate But I'm willing to bet that a lot of the issues (especially first-party ones) are because players and that might not always be their fault. Like didn't communicate the proper technique required I fared much better and my attacks were of the most notable Wii games, it was a matter Not every game could create a sound case nor could they communicate every detail of Motion controls were often egregiously implemented Of course, we have the games I mentioned earlier, way too far. Super Monkey Ball: Banana Blitz. while know that I love Super Monkey Ball, but I While the level design reverts back to the its labyrinthine-esque pathways, it goes on to ask much less responsive than an analog stick. It's or control as the GameCube originals. SoulCalibur was a mediocre action-adventure hack-and-slash combos on a controller with limitations blocking is mapped to Nunchuk gestures, while the Wii Remote. It feels awkward. Then there are Secret Rings which mandated clunky motion the plethora of shovelware that barely registers but I also don't think early Wii games had enough It was a very complicated situation, And then they put Guilty Gear on the Wii. Guilty Gear is one of my favourite fighting games, entries to the Wii? How could a 2D fighting Well, here's how. First of all, the four main slash - were bound to each direction on the have possibly been bound to match the layout of but because it is a D-Pad and the buttons aren't buttons at once or hit the wrong button entirely. and Z simultaneously and shake the Wii Remote are performed through a stick movement like a can still perform them that way with the analog a Potemkin Buster with a shake of the remote is on the Wii has its own meta. These complicated are suddenly being outperformed by these Wiimote entirely optional, as you can use either a and rebind those buttons to your liking, but control scheme that comes bundled This is perhaps the most ironic thing are entirely playable with a more traditional The Wii iteration of Punch-Out is one of my distinct contenders with gorgeous animations and and different openings to memorize - the challenging but immensely rewarding all the same. fleshed out rather than just being simplistic theme of Punch-Out to match the instrumentation Unsurprisingly, the game plays best with a controller the original game was designed for. more reliable and accurate control scheme but the important thing to note Then there are games that completely to great effect. Rhythm Heaven that used tap and flick motions for its use some form of motion input to parallel its this would create in a rhythm game that Rhythm Heaven Fever instead opts to just use the lot better for this decision, which just adds Nearly all of the Wii's best games - especially down its use of motion controls, or made them the motion-based purpose of the console, but it GameCube was known for to shine through Plus - these games were accessible much like how Rhythm Heaven Mario Kart Wii is perhaps one of the most was able to unify gamers and non-gamers through sold 37 million copies and remains one of the It offered not only a selection of but also a selection of ported and reworked fully-fledged online multiplayer suite, and it let No matter your skill level, Mario Kart offer for everyone. I poured so many hours and I played Coin Runners far more than any of my satisfying about trying to hang onto as many coins I don't know, I like that mode a lot. Mario Kart and long after Nintendo's official servers went The only game on the Wii to rival Mario Kart be Super Smash Bros. Brawl. For those of you that are somehow unaware, the release was one of the most exciting times to be a that Solid Snake would be joining the roster. This for me to articulate the impact it had. This party character suggestion you could possibly as playable characters, the other being Sonic the but the announcement still got me more excited game in my life. Aside from Breath of the Wild or for any game to match that aura of excitement While future Smash games may have eclipsed Brawl game in the series. Its amount of content was treat to experience. Classic, Adventure, All-Star, Stage Builder, Coin Launcher - oh my god, the could possibly want. Most single-player modes was addictive and offered astronomical levels respect it pays to the history of video games its soundtrack is admirable. The Subspace Seeing all of these characters interact with one still leaves me giddy, and it all built up to subtle trilogy across the three then-current all depicted as toys, with the Master Hand being kid growing older and still playing with his very on-the-nose and not subtle at all, but Each character has multiple unlockable routes, through the Subspace Emissary. Three of them levels - Jigglypuff, Toon Link and Wolf. It was Speaking of options, Super Smash every single button on every controller you motion inputs on or off. So even if you were you could still customize it to your liking. designed to be accessible to everyone, Like Mario Kart Wii, Brawl was also highly, stages, or music - if you can name it, chances mods in Wii history is Project M, which retooled with Melee's. It tweaked character movesets to own meta, and you could even play online with the It even added a couple of characters that were were planned to be newcomers at one point before But as you can see - Brawl's legacy and everything to do with it being a The fact that Nintendo released Super Mario within a few months of each other still astounds their teams were still firing on all cylinders. brought people together - only, they were the gaming audience Nintendo was thought to have hidden gems on the Wii that flew under the radar Muramasa: The Demon Blade, the Klonoa remake, talk about in a library this vast that it became in this video. I realize I'm leaving out games Yarn and Return to Dreamland, but I don't want to The point of all this is that it was difficult maintaining their traditional gaming audience, and Many of its best-selling games were aimed at a that were essentially shovelware. Meanwhile, title and it was a singleplayer game aimed it was almost always guaranteed to fall into was indeed vast, high-quality third-party games The system was easy to develop for, its casual advantage of those things. The console's focus on Ultimately, most of the Wii's acclaimed hits and while it is true that Wii Sports' motion interactive medium and they are a marvel of game controls drove some players away from otherwise simply could not play. Players with disabilities motion controls, preventing them from enjoying a video game console that attempted to have such The Wii still had several problems of its and more to do with hardware limitations and games had awful connectivity issues. Even with lagged to infamous degrees. Certain games like Strikers Charged fared better, but the majority shared the same fate. On top of that, Nintendo code for you to share with your friends was a good were scattered across the Wii's many features. able to play games online with my friends Then there's the topic of third-party shovelware and "hidden gem" side of things, The Wii was obviously technically incapable Redemption, being a small step up from the to bring their multiplats over. Call of Duty, as did games like Sonic &amp; Sega All-Stars also fared well as you'd expect due to the Wii's Other ports lacked certain features - Lego Star Toy Box mode in Toy Story 3: The Video Game was ended up being completely different from their but the publisher still wanted a Wii version and Sonic Unleashed first come to mind here; this these games that were being promoted, only for like the games they'd been seeing trailers for. was still pretty rough. Nintendo set themselves and the effects of that were felt through And then there were the issues with WiiWare games. program wasn't handled flawlessly. WiiWare enabled their games digitally on the store, and it hosted they weren't made available on another platform) some...problematic restrictions. Nintendo refused fact that you could expand the console's storage of Super Meat Boy and Sonic 4: Episode 2 being had even worse restrictions imposed on developers developers behind Retro City Rampage and Baldur's certification process that could last up to nine copies before any payment would be received from low-quality games don't flood the service, but and also kind of scummy! I'm sure the situation Despite criticism of the Wii mounting, Nintendo the most embarrassing E3 conferences in history. It leaned so heavily into the Wii's success with shooting themselves in the foot. The Wii Balance as did Wii Music. For this video, I decided to buy as stupid as the presentation made it seem. I your own MIDI music like Mario Paint, and then be forced to just thrash about to existing songs. You indeed simply thrash about to public domain rattle. There's a music quiz minigame here that Nintendo thought Wii Music would be the Well, in all fairness - they did find and they did so in a major way. I've always felt restricted what developers could accomplish with a mediocre first-person shooter that ran terribly after attempting to return to the Wii menu, and out what was causing the problem. As it turned my Wii Remote volume being turned on. If the I would love for programmers to take a look at and hilarious spaghetti code. Anyway, the Sadly, the Wii Remote could not track the developers probably wanted, resulting in promising To enable full 360 degree movement within the Wii This peripheral was incredible, three games - the first being Wii Sports Resort. It sounds silly, but it felt like there was a lot biggest games of the seventh generation, and it But dare I say, I might enjoy this game more than five sports and not all of its sports are winners, Wuhu Island and its improved controls make it Wii Sports Resort has 12 sports to choose from sport to tackle as well. Some returning sports bowl, which I spent a LOT of my time on. It is so of each other. Another returning sport, Golf, had on top of the new Frisbee Golf version. But what the Wii MotionPlus could do lie with Table Tennis can take advantage of nuanced serves to the ball. You could twist and turn your wrist accordingly. This makes it one of the best Table counting virtual reality - because it features Sports accessible in the first place like your highlighted trajectory. Air Sports showcased the and although you could explore Wuhu Island at your connected, the Dogfighting was where the real But by far, my favourite sport in Swordplay finally implements the finer movements in the original game. You can swing your sword It feels exceptional to control. Being able your opponent's guard was tremendously Wii Sports Resort in just to fight each other Speaking of swordplay, the next is one of the coolest games I've ever played, and surprisingly - it's a sequel to a game You play as the last remaining member of the and a katana at your disposal. The mix of western weapons you wield. While the revolver functions as all the right notes with me, the katana is where both every minute position from which you swing almost always translated into the game. While you shooting from afar on the most common grunts, wide can parry specific swings so you'll need to stay you feel the need to stagger your opponent, and exploring, racking up combos through kills and you'll be able to unlock new skills. Early in the to jump up and slash enemies in mid-air, or or this awesome counter finisher that allows you and into an enemy's chest. Honestly, I record multiple games for this video, but while It's not a perfect game; its missions and enemies to see a Red Steel 3 in virtual reality at some concept, and the game is proof that the Wii The Wii MotionPlus' high-fidelity motion tracking upcoming VR revolution we'd feel in the mid to The Wii MotionPlus is what the Wii By the time the Wii MotionPlus could be taken The Wii had entered its twilight years. Sales were smartphones. Although I tend to cite the Wii as they were also behind it as well. Smartphones and the Wii Message Board obsolete, while the that same demographic Nintendo once captivated most of them were buying the console for Wii That, and the increase in graphical fidelity and contemporaries. This was a conscious and it worked out back then, but The last Wii MotionPlus game I wanted I won't discuss it in too much detail, but Their final work of art that would unique interface could enable. The I made a two-hour long retrospective on the game things brief here. Skyward Sword made the Wii combat and puzzle-solving. Rather than focusing of Skyward Sword wants you to focus on where your a large amount of scenarios for this philosophy fun I've had with combat in a Zelda game. It's flawed one. With that said, the trappings we've Many actions in Skyward Sword felt hamfisted and gestures when an analog stick would have sufficed. swimming, diving - does every single action in I would say "no." Some do, like being able to life - a concept adapted from Wii Sports Resort implementation of motion controls in Skyward necessity of these controls, but they do function there's a chance these people were simply doing back to another point I made. It is impossible to which means that a percentage of people are themselves to the controls. And if you're of have to put up with them if you want to play. and it's a touchy subject today. Making them to be controversial no matter how you slice game's sales were impacted by this decision. But I this game's legacy might've shaken out people are finding themselves enjoying the game The Wii eventually faded out, and left behind released toward the end of the Wii's life, like The game was a huge deal as it ushered in Trimming the fat of the "boost" formula introduced speed and the platforming. Although these elements levels, it was a fresh start for Sonic, and that Aside from that, the Wii's last years were The Wii's experimentation with motion control, some games (and lack thereof in others) would Gyro aiming would be adopted in console games as and improved reaction times, and it game. Required motion controls have been relegated which represents Nintendo's willingness These games feel much more welcome now, as instead having its own dedicated It gave consumers options. And that's the biggest controls only partially invited accessibility, but Options drive accessibility. While motion of its kind to succeed, other games found far to their broad appeal, and most importantly While the Wii's motion controls may not have the philosophies that brought it to life The Wii U's asymmetrical multiplayer and Iwata's unorthodox manner of thinking, while control styles and ways to play in order to give Iwata left a deep impact on the company and video If there's anything to take away from I believe one thing remains true today. The Wii hub for your family to gather, to its simple to hiding Wii Remotes around the living room to the multiplayer memories we share Wii was designed to bring people To that end, I believe the Wii succeeded and unfortunate that its best games were forced scheme, and its hardware limitations prevented With that said...I'd like to discuss one more and its message reflects beautifully And it almost didn't come out in North America. Late in the Wii's life, Nintendo didn't feel to how niche they would be in the west, and how Operation Rainfall was a campaign that Although Nintendo initially stated they had "no campaigning for, all three games were eventually Pandora's Tower, The Last Story, and the game I This game was great in spite of Hardware limitations and an awkward control of the system's architecture and the option to with the system's weaknesses and delivered It was a true-to-form open-world game on the Xenoblade is a technical marvel. It's hard to 2D images of a 3D space, but when you pan the there is to explore and observe, and how much seems almost impractical. And yet, here it is. action-RPG combat system that was relative to a hard-hitting orchestral soundtrack composed by rich and deeply resonant narrative about revenge future. However, this ability, while useful, and his partners do. Eventually, he realizes That's all I'm gonna say about the game's because its thesis is relevant to the leap Satoru vision for the Wii, despite the scrutiny it be realized initially, unforeseen consequences That, and many elements of the maturing game it a shot despite not knowing what the future We can't predict the It's more worthwhile trying and not And that's exactly what Shulk and Satoru Iwata he made as president of Nintendo - he stood for I've been Liam Triforce. Thanks for watching.