Here we go again. Another boring episode What did you say? Duh, obviously, you are You mock me, you don't even play fairly, and bully me, prevent me Yes? You got any problem with me? No, sire, nope. That's more like it. - Should I start, bishop sire? Bishop's pawn opening? Why did you start I'm looking for way so the videos can be I am trying to find - This is called the &quot;English opening&quot;. English opening? Take the Agincourt defense. Now me and my queen both can come out Yeah, this is now confirmed - Get muted now. - You, horsey, now your turn. - Horsey, you got to say the thing? If you want to become the next ad knight, Every opening, You mean we have Shhhh. We don't use the N-word here. Alright, English opening symmetrical Three knights, Stop these madness, bishop. We don't want the white pieces Shut the f*ck up, you N-word. You are the N-word, not me. Time to dominate the center. Wakanda forever! - You know attacking me means death? Damn, I will die too. *murmurs* - Oh no, the king can't talk. Don't worry, I can understand He is saying that in the pawn's next move, So, pawn, go there From when did you I always understood. Why didn't you say this earlier? Why didn't you ask earlier? Nevermind. I was waiting for this. - Whatsup? - I can kill this horsey. If you kill him, Let me come out - You nerd horsey, die now. Noooo. King, I think Or he might sack himself by killing - He is unpredictable. You idiot, what are you looking at? - Castle this instant. Horsey, go there. - Hello, sire. Now if you kill me, and when the pawn revenges, When the time comes, That's when the game returns to normal A way to find the ultimate pawn Once and for all. Remember, kill him at any cost. Why is it taking so long? - Yee haw, yee haw. Thank you, pawn. I can develop myself now. And I can now attack Not so fast. Dammit. You, pawn, You, pawn, go. Simpy boy, it's time for you Alright. Rook, take control Okay, sire. Lmao, my queen is protecting me. I can't always save you. - Instead, you move one square. Okay, let's break his castle. You corner pawn, go. But sire, I will be vulnerable. Shut the f*ck up, Horsey, do your thing. Go, pawn. This is court marshal. Alright, but I was gonna listen *awkward noise* We have to weaken their castle. I can't push this pawn And if I send him backup the horsey won't have protection We have to weaken him, Me and the queen If I go there, the bishop And when he does, my queen and find a way to checkmate him. I am a genius. Lmao, nerd. What did you say, boy? *sighs* Another staring montage. I won't kill you. You will have to kill me. You question me? Hahahahaha. The piece of shit has gone. What do you mean by honestly? Your bishop cheats No, I admit he is evil, He would never cheat. Obviously he is, Whatever, Rook, go and protect They have a battery Haha, now your battery won't work. Noooo. Ignore it. You naughty naughty. - You won't have your glory. - Won't like it everybody. He won't take this kindly. - You'll understand when you're forty. Wakanda forevering Go back to the kitchen You know, that thing is defamatory. That thing is self explanatory. Be ready to clear your inventory. Stop this rhyming, I am getting fury. You're right, shit, holy. *awkward noise* Wait, Yoda talks like that. Wakanda forever! - Time to do a brilliant move. I am gonna sacrifice the rook. - As you command. Hahahahaha. I understand If this queen kills me, our queen You are right, I won't kill you. Oops, I said that out loud. - You donkey rook. Rook, at least come to a square Okay. - The queen can now protect me. No, my rook. Don't cry alone. You rook, attack her. - Hello, b**ch. Hahahahaha. - Horsey queen protection. Well done, rook. Now horsey, - Hello. The rook and horsey The horsey was protecting him. Now he is protecting horsey. Move, simpy boy. Oh, yes. Let's make a battery. Bishop, go there. Now when the rook moves, But you won't be alive till then. You are gonna die. Yay, now I am a passed pawn. It happened for the first time that I always jump to outposts. But now an outpost came to me. - I am hanging. Ebombay! When this pawn moves, So take this attack instead. - Uno reverse attack. - Hello, rook. we won't be able to get a new queen. Pawn, go. - Pawn, go ahead. Today I will become a queen. He is pushing his pawn. The king is blocked by the rook, - Hello, knight. If the rook saves me, then the king I think I should kill the bishop. Let me attack that pawn. Now equal equal. If you kill our pawn, Now he is protected. I must become a queen today. Enough. - Equal equal. Rest in piece, pawn. Umm, it is peace, not piece. No, it's piece. Finally, after a long time, Aaaah! Pawn, go. I won't let you go. - Umm, what is happening? - We can't win. So we are doing We will repeat the same moves 3 times So who is the better king? - I am. Let's see you - You missed me, boys?