So good to see you guys today. Thank you for coming. And don't forget that youth choir. I need somebody to lead that. All right. Okay. fantastic. Good to see you man Yes, ma'am. Come over today for lunch? I will. Not a problem. Peach cobbler. Got to keep the tradition, right? Glory Glory. Hallelujah Can I get an Amen? Amen! Is that what I look like up there? I guess Come here. Grandpa, Don't know. Maybe. Maybe not. But, you know, it doesn't really matter. Whether you're in front of the stage, or on the back corner of the room. What really matters is that you humbly love God and actually love other people. Okay. We are so excited you're with us. But the blessings are just beginning. Grab those merch items, swipe those cards, Because Mario King is coming to the stage shortly. Alright, showtime. Where's he at? Camera one, start working the crowd. Bring him out, let's go. Switch between camera three and camera one Camera five on my call. Lets give a royal welcome to the man himself, Mario King! And hit the lights. Get up on your feet Camera one Put your hands together, it's time for Mario King! I cant hear you. Make some noise! switch to camera two. Awesome. You know him. You love him. Welcome to the stage, Mario King Welcome, everyone. My name is Mario King and I'm here. To share a message with you. I see. I know exactly what it is long for. You're sick and tired of constantly trying to get by in life. Tired of being. Nobody tonight. I want you to know that all that is going to change Now's the time It's not just about Mario. Feel it. Oh, I feel it. Okay, now it must be that time. We're about to get started. We're about to get started, but first. I want to make sure all my brothers and sisters stop by those merchandizing tables and get some of those powerful resources Love thyself and grow thy wealth. Yeah. A discounted a special rate. All of my brothers and sisters of Atlanta, Georgia, We've discounted everything at a special rate, specifically for my very good friends Clap it up. And special rate specifically. For all my Tar Heels. Give it up from the Tar Heel State for everybody in the Windy City, Chicago, Illinois. You get a discount. You get a discount. You get a discount. Everybody gets a discount specifically for Nashville, Tennessee, baby Yeah. Specifically my favorite city in America. Austin, Texas. For my people in Sin City, Las Vegas, Nevada, my favorite city, Cleveland, Ohio. Especially for all of the people in Portland Oregon. New York City. Wake up. I'm not unloading this stuff Yeah Let's go hey, hey, hey. What are you doing? Put that down. Hey, get outta there. I'm a get you. Man, got to be kidding me. Evening Sir, license and registration Mr King. A dozen speeding And for about half of those they carried mandatory court dates I mean, do you think that was okay? That's a tricky question. That's not good. No, no, that's not okay. Not at all. And I have to drive for work, so I already got my inspection stuff and, you know, verification, registration So, yeah. The thing is, you just don't look to be too concerned. Does he look concerned to you, Jim? Mmmm Nope. Here's what we're going to do. I'm going to sentence you to 240 hours of community service. I'm going to fine you $10,000, but I'm going to let that include your outstanding fines and court fees. Hey, I don't have $10,000. What I should be doing What I'm trying to do and still be somewhat merciful so that you can continue to work. As for the community service, I'm assigning you to do that at Safe It's a homeless shelter near here. The people that we've assigned experiences. I'll try to make something work. If you don't follow through with this, you will do some serious jail time. You understand? Yeah. When you answer my question, the last thing out of your mouth or your Honor. Yes, sir, Your Honor. Hmmm this. ain't gonna work No, no, no. We've given them instructions. Everyone's setting up. I lined up the news coverage I fully expect this donation drive will bring in enough money We need them to be. And if that happens, then we'll just have shhh shhh shhh. Yeah I know, just listen, just make sure everyone who's donated in Good. Man. You need help don't you? Yeah, could you uh You know. I don't. I don't normally do this, but I can see it in your eyes. A few bucks Okay? I ask that you spend it wisely. Look, you don't need to thank me okay? Just don't come around here regular withdrawals. Good luck. Can I help you with something? I don't know. I'm supposed to report here Okay, come on in. My name is Stephen Young. I'm one of the coordinators here. Most people call me preacher dude So what am I supposed to be doing here? Most people respond to the introduction Devon. Devon? Yeah. As far as community service, but I'm not the one in charge. That would be Olivia. Speaking of which, hey. Who are you? This is Devon. Oh, right. Judge McBride said you'd be coming? Nice to meet you, Devon I got to run. I'll catch you later at the meeting. So, community service at Safe I mean, it could be worse right Nah doubtful. Thats the spirit. Come on, I'll take you on a tour Why not? And this way is our kitchen. This is where we serve And this is Nicole. Nicole. This is Devon. He's going to be working with us We can always use more help. The mention it this way. Set up And right now we have room which includes the kids. Guess Your guests aren't Well, they are. But with 40 people here at any given 40 I thought you said that.. And we've had to set up and a few other If we have an empty space Doesn't seem legal. Neither does So that pretty much concludes our tour. What do you think? I guess I see all our tax money Well, actually, we're privately funded. Most of our donations jinx. Devon. Devon Jinx. jinx is really sweet. Once you get to know But as long as she's on her meds, Yeah. I don't think this place Okay, well, you know, I'm sure that Judge McBride would be happy You know, For real? Do you know him like that? Well, I know him well enough to know that if you refuse your community service, And what makes you so sure? Olivia McBride. Judge's daughter. We got work to do. Yeah, I got deliveries to do. I got to go. Hey, let me call you back in five, okay? All right. I love you, too. Bye. I tell you, we're having a girl? At least 100 times. Well, you know, it's four boys so far. And then finally, a little princess. Ah, what an answer to prayer. Oh, well that's everything. Hang on a second, man. You got to see this. Do you see the wink? I do not. It's pretty blurry. Sign this for me. Looks like a wink to me. Yeah Grandpa, Why do you got so many people Don't you want to go home? I do have a lot of people to see don't I? I want to thank you this afternoon. Want to know a secret? Yeah. Some time. I do just want to go home. Old and tired. But Mario, you have to be very careful always focusing on what we want. We always have to consider others You get it? Good. Do nothing from selfish ambition But in humility, count others more significant than yourselves. Let each of you but also to the interests of others. Philippians two, three and four. All right. I'm here. Deliveries are done for the day. Lets knock out some of these hours. You know, and I cannot figure out why Okay, sorry about that. You want me to, I just wanted and give the guest Yeah. Yeah, for sure. Maybe I should clock in I have tended to this garden three times. 2 minutes ago. Oh, I guess on the brightside pulling up the weeds. Hey, can you bring me that trash can? Sure. Why not? That's all I feel like doing. Getting you trash cans. You got? Yeah. And when life gives you lemons, That the best you got? The old lemonade line. Yeah, yeah. I mean, maybe I came back. Right? Okay. All right, well, let's make some lemonade. Do I still need to clock in first. Yo. Oh, how many grams of protein was in the macaroni protein uh? Protein! I don't know. Bro I need two grams of protein for every pound of body weight. Brother, much protein it had. It ain't that much. How about that ? That got protein? Yeah. Yeah, I'm sure it does. That's what's up! here you go. God bless you son. You know, God's got great I see you. I was just trying to help. He obviously needed a little extra. So. Hey, you, you was scared? You were scared you were going to get a pounding. Uh huh, yeah, you were He was a big guy. Teeny. He ain't Teeny. Hmmm-mmm You okay? Yeah, I'm fine. Good. Then you can spot me. What are you doing down there? I dropped my keys Nice of, uh. Thanks. I'm Jeanette. Yeah, I'm. I'm Devin. You know, and I'm pretty sure this is the first time we've ever spoken. I try to stay focused, you know? Yeah, I can tell you. You don't even notice when a beautiful Do I make you nervous? Just hot I mean, like, from the workout. Right? Yeah. So what are you doing tonight? I don't even know I thought that you were coming I don't know. It's okay. I'll see you tonight. Really ? Come on. Please Don't kick me out. Ten thousand dollars. Oh man. Hey, it's Devin. That dinner invitation still good? I'll see you then. So after that, because when so many of your exes tell you it only makes sense right? Ew. someone parked their old nasty truck in front of my place, I. I'm sorry. I drive that old nasty truck outside of your house. Okay. I'm a food delivery man. Do you drive a JAG? I don't. Thank you for all of this. I mean, you look wonderful, but I think I should go. You're leaving. You don't know me. I mean, does it matter? Yes, it should. I think this was a mistake. I I'm going to go. I have a lot going on. I'm sorry. Morning. Hey, Sun's pretty bright in here. Here you go. Make yourself useful. What is this? Getting ready for the donation drive? First United church, holds one It's a silent auction clothes, supplies, furniture, money, We're always in need of that. Ummmm Look, I mean, Am I supposed be counting those? Look I'm kidding. Of course I'm counting them. I might even knock some off. Now go help those guys with the chairs Devon. Devon... could be Avon because he's smooth. And then how did you. How did you find this location then? (Indistinct chatter) Connie. Connie. So happy to see you. Thank you so much for your support. Really appreciate it. Thank you for entertaining No money on me today, man. Sorry. Watch out for this guy. He'll hit you up for some cash. Bishop Miller, this is Devon. He's a new member of our team. The team like leadership. Leadership team. Okay, well, I run the show over at First As part of the team now, I expect to see you there on starting tomorrow. So talk about this first shot. Great idea right here. So I think it'd be great you know, serving some people the pre-approved questions while I do it. I mean, look, but he is the reason our door stay open. Serious? That guy? That guy? Yeah. Alright. I'm Connie Draper, and this is WRFO. Goodnight. Thank you. That's great, Scott. Thank you, as always. Was a pleasure. Let's get out of here. Hey. Hey. Thanks for staying. Oh, well, So I stepped in to save you. right? Was that Miller guy I mean, because I haven't stepped foot And I just don't think. If you can take that guy serious. Yeah, he was. But look, you'll be fine. I'll save you a seat. Hey guys Hey We'll all be there tomorrow. Rodney's getting baptized. Yes. Okay, fine. I'll count it towards your hours. Okay. I guess I'll be there. See you then. Go have fun. Come in here. What is this? That's it. That's everything. That's everything. You sent this to the board yet? No, I haven't. Okay, don't. You don't tell Yes, sir. I've had enough of your noise.. Yo cut that down. What you say? This your apartment? it might be why? I live next door. So So you want me to call the cops? I mean, because I'm sure this kid ain't You gonna call the cops? If I have to. Well we celebrating his birthday, man. How old are you turning again? 40 See, he's 40. now. I got something that's 40 too. How you like that, huh? My man's packing. You know, you can have him. Come on man. Ain't funny What you laughing at? Do you have any idea what this is about? I don't. I'm sorry. So I never like saying these kind of things, The donation drive was a bit of a joke. And the fundraising efforts you're doing beginning to cover costs and the shelter is not performing. What are you trying to say, Bishop? We simply can't keep dumping Well, look, but I can't force people to attend church, hinting at. What I'm hinting at is our congregation, and they don't want their money So I don't know. I don't know. Maybe, maybe get your people here on Sunday mornings and a regular basis. Okay. Maybe that might spark some interest your little project. I'm trying here. I'm trying. Do you want this place to stay open or. Yes, I want the shelter to stay open. Then work with me. Okay. We got to do something. Well, I say that because if not, we will have to shut down the shelter altogether. Good morning. Good morning. Well. Devon. Brother. Glad to see you, man. So happy you're Oh, I'm just going to grab a seat No, no, no, no. I got you one down front. Okay, awesome. Well, go on right ahead I'm just gonna... you got it. restroom right quick Restroom this way brother. Hey good? Man. I don't think I can go through Okay. Oh, maybe I should go get Stephen. No. Oh, no, no, no, I. This is embarrasing Look man, then maybe you should wait No, that's Not. It is not. It. I'm scared of water You'll be alright. I'm so proud of you, Rodney. Such a good to give your life to Christ. Yeah. No it's okay. It's a great day all there Oh, yes, sir. It's good. Rodney Quinton Thomas. What do you believe about Jesus? I believe that Jesus is my hope. And my salvation. Oh, Jesus. And upon this profession of faith in the name of the Father, Amen. Amen! Wait! (laughter) Well I have to admit that was much more entertaining Oh yeah. Thanks for the invite. Of course. I guess. I'll see you all at the shelter tomorrow. Hey, we're about to have lunch. You want to join us Nah nah. I got a good PB and J at home I'll see you all at the shelter. Have a good day. You too. You have one message. Mario. Hey, this is George. It's been a while since we spoke with some news footage A local report on that soup kitchen. I had to do a triple take., man. There you were in the background, I mean, no offense, It's a brilliant move. Seriously, you've set up a storybook I've pitched this to a handful of players. And listen, Mario, We've got an incredible opportunity here Yeah, I'm here. There another donation or something. down here. And perfect timing. If you'd like to help. you don't even have enough room Like I said, perfect timing. If you'd like to help, help us, please. Oh. Excuse me Sir. I knoiw this might be a dumb question. Do you have any toys by chance? I don't know. I don't think so. What kind of toy were you looking for? Not for me but for my little sister. She lost her. doll yesterday, and she is pretty upset. And I was trying to cheer her up. Okay. Well Hey, sweetie. Did you say your sister lost her doll? Yes ma'am. I think Olivia might have I'll be right back. You think she might like one of these. Yes ma'am. I don't know how You do this. It's amazing. Like you move as if everything is going to be okay. I couldn't do that. Thanks, I think. No, no, I mean, it as a compliment. I suppose you don't get much appreciation. I don't really need to hear. Good job, Olivia. I just want to have what we need to help And Bishop Miller said there's a chance So not enough money to fund our little project. Yeah. Yeah. Thank you, Mr. Miller, I have a busy schedule and a lot to juggle, I was worried about Olivia, ummmmm, and everybody and I just want to know what the plan was. Devin, Why are you sitting in front of me? I have a very busy day I don't. Basically, it's come to a point where the shelter is financial burden No but there's something that can be done You can't just put a stop to it there. If there's one thing I've learned the past several weeks is that people need hope, right? I think I can come up with something if that sounds nice. Do you have a means to finance this hope? Because all that takes money Devin, money that we no longer have. Let's say there was a way for me to get the financing, to keep the shelter open. Can you give me your word it 100%? I'm listening. There's something Hey! Are you lost man? I said are you lost You gonna pull that trigger? See you again. alright? Hey, hey, hey, hey. You okay? You Okay. Oh, excuse me, miss. Hi. I brought in a young man, maybe 14, 15 years old last night. A Caucasian brother with brown hair I don't know his name, but I just want to make sure he's okay. Are you family? No, ma'am I'm not. But I brought him in and Just wondering how he is. If you could just tell me if he's okay or I can tell you that he's stable, but that is all the information Oh, okay. Stable. That's good. Thank you. You're welcome. Take care. Stable.. You have all been so brave in the past sharing all your stories, good and bad. And I know that tonight that I promise to share mine. I've been sober for six years and 23 days now, but that doesn't mean that I haven't had some very close calls. You know, growing up, my life seemed what you would say perfect far from it. And then one night after dinner, And in that moment was the first time in my life that I had felt truly lost. I blamed God So I started drinking. I walked around every day Everybody. But then I realized that it's And I needed to find my purpose. Were seeking the same thing. It's love. To feel, love. To share your love And I want all of you to know that here we love you. Hey. Hey. Wanna get some food? Sure. Come on Waffles make everything better. I see They do. So how'd you end up here? Come on I mean I'm from a small town originally moved to the big city I made some bad choices. Now I'm back here in another small town. So, yeah, That's it. So you hear my entire life story back there, and that's the best you can do for me. Small town, big city, small town. Wow, you know how to paint a picture with those words, okay? And the man can laugh. I don't even know what to do with myself. Ahhhh But I do want to know what makes you want to get out of bed in the morning? Alright alright Alright! Are you, Devin. Mario King? What's this about? I'm here on behalf of Paradise Rentals. And you're being served with eviction No, um just. Just Wait, I have money. No judgment was awarded and they have requested I had every intention of paying them back. Okay, I've Just been really busy alright let's just wait right here, okay? I'll call the company myself. No look, I'll call them. No, sir. Look, there's nothing more that I can do. So you have to get your things the premises Work with me. Okay? Look, I just. It's fine, okay? Just wait, okay? Mr. King already know that you have a record any more difficult than it needs to be. I'm just wondering, you know, if you could maybe give me an advance for a month and I could get back in my place At this point it's... that's not even a possibility. I know how it sounds, but I just need a helping hand I know the timing is terrible. But we just signed a major deal. You're letting me Go.? I tried to fight for you. Trust me, I tried. But I need time to find a place to stay, get another job. You just can't spring something like this on somebody. Listen, I want to help, but I'm sorry. I really am. I bet you are All right, so, look, man, We got Seattle next. Mr King, Kaitlin Strauss, What do you have to say by best Life Publishing. Inside sources claim that you owe best life upwards of $13 million. Are you at all embarrassed that you operated outside of your contract Yet still managed to lose Does it look like I lost anything? I worked day and night for my name. Mario Okay. That contract with Best Life Publishing, Quote me on that. Oh, I will. Like that skirt, by the way. Thank you, Mr. King. You just keep making things worse. Do you know that you keep making things Your contract isn't bogus. It's completely legit. You knew that when you signed it? Yeah. Three years ago, when I was fresh out I didn't know how this business work. Yeah, The banks call you on your loans, You need to contact And do what? Are you. Are you insane? There's. There's a chance Not Just the money in the bank, the endorsements, everything. You done? Yeah, I'm done looking out for you. Good. Let's go. Look out for me. If you were to look out for me, Mario. You there? Yeah George, I'm there. Hey, Mario, man, it's good. It's good to hear from you. It's been too long, brother. I'm so glad you answered. Let me just. Let me just get right to it, okay? I spoke with that local news lady, and she told me about everything She was. She was more than happy to go Best Life Publishing is willing to let bygones be bygones. We've got a deal on the table that'll pay 300,000. Guaranteed. Obviously, that includes exclusively to everything multiple book deals, the rights to your story, Bottom line, you've got a second chance, Mario. It's time to step back into the spotlight. You know how these things go. You got to strike while the iron is hot. We've got to make a move on this What? Who's there? Hey, you deliver here? Who's there? No, not really. Mario, Look man. You got to go. You can't park here. Okay? Okay, okay. Mario, did you just. Did you just hear everything I just said? I heard you, George, but I got to go. Let me think on it. I'll tell you what. I'll send you the contract, text me your email address Okay? I'll shoot that right over to you Awesome. The beauty about it and save the lost, Devon He literally says that I am the way. He he said it like that I am the way That's how he said it, Just checking in You should have told us. Stephen just told me Oh, it's nothing. (laughs) It's not nothing. How long have you been Not for long. I had a nice spot by a grocery store, but the security guard Well do you have a plan? Yeah I'll Just stay in the truck and try to figure things out. Besides means, helping out That's terrible. At least have a truck. right? Stephen, Come on. Why do I feel like you guys are ignoring Is that on purpose? Oh. Exactly. You need a place to stay. She needs a full time supervisor. It's meant to be. No, no, that's not. That's not going to work. It's perfect. Isn't it amazing how God works? No, no, it's not. Look what you guys are doing But you're crazy If you think I want to live here, That's a nice touch. Oh. I guess this is home. Let's get comfortable. Granpa, Are we lost? No, no. We're heading in the right direction. I didn't have a compass here to help. Then we would be in trouble. Pull it in guys. Now, guys, out here in the woods without a compass. Or a light.. We'd get lost for sure. You're moving. We're almost there. This book contains everything you'll ever need. These aren't just words In these words, are life itself It is a light, for your path and a compass that shows the way. John 14: 6 Love, Grandpa Burton Amen huh? Huh? Hey, I Thought I'd find you here. Yeah, I just needed an escape. you know? Trust me, you take all the quiet minutes Helps drown out all the noise. Mmmm hmmm You okay? I still don't know what I'm doing. You know, every thought, every decision leads to more questions. I mean, this all feels like a second chance. But what if I'm wrong? Why do I deserve a second chance to rewrite my life? Well, maybe it is a second chance, rewriting it. Speaking of chances, to run the group meeting solo. What? no, not all by myself. Why would Stephen has a family thing I've got to run and get Jinx's look he's got notes on his desk it'll be fine. Hey, everyone, I'm Devon, as you know. I don't. I, Stephen and Olivia aren't going to be able to make it tonight, to be the facilitator for tonight's meeting by myself. So would anyone like to lead us in prayer? Don't be shy. Anyone No? Okay. Well, as soon as I start, I'll look at the. Hello? Hello. Hello? Nobody do me like Jesus. He's my fiend. Oh, can't nobody do me like. Jesus Can't nobody do me like the lord oh, Can't nobody do me like Jesus. Jesus, he's my friend Amen Amen What's going on in here? I don't know. It's kind of like church is happening here Hey man. Look, I loved you. Good job, Great Job I appreciate the support bro. Yes sir. Thank you. Yeah. See you soon. Okay. Hey. Hey. You think this might be it? What do you mean? You asked me at the diner. What? My purpose is? I don't know. You think doing this might be it? , uh. Oh, yeah. Olivia the first person in my adult life that ever cared about me enough to try to keep me out of my own way. Thank you. You're welcome. Hey, man what you doing? Come on in the truck. Let's get something to eat. Come on. My treat. All right, fine. Suit yourself. Wait. Bro uhh why waffles? Someone told me that they make everything better. So tell me, your dad. Yeah. He beats you. Nuts. Nothing like that. No, I'm just trying to figure out why things are so bad at home. My dad's too strict. your dad's too strict. That's what I said. Oh, yeah? Well, you got to be kidding me. You're out running the streets because your dad has too many rules. I wouldn't expect you to understand then try me. I was tired of being expected to act perfect all the time, so I left Found people who respect me for me. Like the ones that left you bloody and beaten? Those friends? Hey, how old are you man? Fifteen And in the next 15 years, where do you think you'll be? I don't know uh, running my own business, Whatever. Yeah, that's good. You think you'll be able to accomplish that not knowing where you're going to sleep like tonight? You haven't even made it What you want kids of your own someday? Yeah, yeah, sure. With my smoking hot wife Alright then. When you have your own son, what if he thinks you're too strict? You want him to run away? No I don't. But I'm not like my dad. The decisions you make today The path you're headed my man, You could have died that night. Seriously, That's what the doctor said. I got lucky. Yeah. You need to go back I know. Regardless of your father's attitude or any of that, just humble yourself and do what you can do to make it right. All right now eat those waffles before I grab some. Alright thanks, man. Really. Of course. No luck? No luck You know, maybe you should try yelling. in my work. Maybe You've got something.... You know, I'm actually. I'm really happy that you got arrested, because we both know if you hadn't, you wouldn't have ended up here. So what you're saying is that you'd be upset if I left? Hard to say. Maybe a little. Maybe a little. Oh, okay. Yeah. Seriously, though, what would you say if I went back to the big city and made some real money and kept the shelter open for a while? Go for how long? You know what I saw in you when you first got here? A broken man who had lost all hope. What do you see now? A man that not only found hope, but that's given it to others. Look at me. Make me a promise decision and leave. Promise. Oh, I forgot. I've got something I've got to show you. Okay Well, I was going through paperwork this morning, Now that you're here full time, And here I thought you stopped Won't be long. You'll be a free man. You know I can't I've been trying to get Mario on this deal Yes, my pleasure. Yeah, it's crazy, right? How these things work out It really is. But I feel like we have a great plan now and things are moving in the right Absolutely. So you were going to have him meet me at the hotel, right. So we can finalize everything. You're at the Right. That way we can get signed off and get out of here No offense. None taken. Now I know where to find Mario, just as soon as humanly possible. That's. That's amazing. You know, thanks again. I really appreciate it. I really do. We should, you know, you know, before this is all said and done there might be a play Who knows? Yeah, I appreciate that. It's already settled. It's. It's already done. It's already done. He and his Georgie have worked out a deal The story of how Mario King turned over a new leaf in small town It was. It was all a show, okay? Just to make money off of exploiting us. How do you know Steven Come on. Mario has done nothing but mislead you since he got here. Okay? He. He purposely withheld his identity, it would have on the shelter. I mean, he played you two like puppets. And now, because of him, Wait a minute. These people, they rely on us. They have nowhere else to go. You can't do that. I know. I'm sorry. And, and they relied on you. And you let them down when you let that criminal in here. I'm sorry. It's too late. I'm shutting this down effective immediately. It's okay, though. It's. It's over now. It's over. We can move on. And look that's what you need to do. Olivia, during his time here, but he doesn't care about you. He doesn't care about anyone but himself. It's going to be okay. Now, we can. We can move past this. Move forward. Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa. You stop right there. Your little adventure here is done. We know everything about you now. Yeah, George filled us in all the details that you left out. What are you talking about? You had, you had everything right there You had fame, you had fortune, And that's not me anymore. All that in the past is not me. You think you can just serve some hours at a homeless shelter and erase everything you've done? All the decisions you've made, You really want to put Olivia through more pain than you already have? You got nothing here. You're done. So I tell you what, George is at the hotel by the airport, waiting for you. Just leave before you ruin someone else's life Hey, I'm ready to do this. I'll see you tomorrow. Throwing in the towel? I was told to call the police So you're going to leave on your own? Or do I need to make that call? I'm sorry. Don't say that to me. Do not tell me..... you can save your sorries Okay? You know what? I actually believed you. I believed all of this. I believe that you were this man that had made a change I believed you when you told me you I actually believed I do care. You know what? It's too late for that. You need to leave. Jinx Nowhere to go. Rodney. Teenie nowhere to sleep. Felicia her little girl, Clinton, Stacey Paul All these people months are on their own, So you need to leave. Now. Im certain you have strong opinions about this. But I feel it's vital for our ministry we serve at the shelter The decision's made and the decision's final. We just have to move on at this point. If you refuse to budge or offer I'm going to have to resign. I accept your resignation. Hey, you're home. Yeah, I guess I am. When? When you get back? Oh, like uh thirty seconds ago, I just.... Oh, wow. Uh, you just got back Hey um, it's a bit of an odd situation, but I had to resign from the church I probably should get going. Yeah. That's the guy that. That's the guy He took me to the hospital. He bought me waffles. He's the one that told me I should come home Uh that's the guy. I just wanted to let you know so you could have everything ready. I'll be right there. Okay. See you then. Hello. We are live in our studio We have a very special guest Please introduce yourself. Jinx, what are you doing? No Jinx! Oh, yes, my name is Devin. I've been going by Devin lately most people know me by. And the name that most people would recognize? Mario King It is my bag. It is my bag. Several years ago I had a few bestselling books giving seminars and speeches. About. What. To be honest. False hope. Things have changed, haven't they? What is the name? You would like people I don't want people know my name. So why are you here today? I was offered a chance to get my whole life back if I sold my story to the right people. But I have rejected that offer. I'm not here to make money, and I'm not making money from this. I'm here because a homeless shelter just a few miles away from here, was forced to close last night they need to help people People like a war veteran who fought but now can't afford a place to stay. People like a young mother Who fled an abusive relationship but now have nowhere else to go. (Shouting) (Scuffling) So now what? I don't know. I'm stepping out on faith doing this. The Shelter needs help. Shelter needs people that are watching to give whatever however they can as soon as possible. That's why I'm here. I'm here to ask. For your help IAppreciate your time and I hope to see you at Safe Harbor again I hope so. Thank you. Best of luck. Take care. You too. Wait a minute Devin, I just got this and you might want to hear it. There's been an accident at Safe Harbor. It looks like a pedestrian was hit by a vehicle. Witnesses have identified injured pedestrian as shelter employee, She's been taken to the hospital. Pulse? Please don't take her. Please don't take her. Nothing? Clear. Clear. Help! Help her! Clear! You left me in that garden, I would ever see you again. I thought I lost you. I was trying to help Jinx. She's so confused, and I. I tried to pull her away. I stumbled. I didn't even see it coming. I made you a promise. I want to be here. Okay? Okay. I feel like there's something you should know, When life hands you lemons, make lemonade. I kind of think I love you. Welcome everyone. I'm here to share a message. God does indeed want to reward you. But probably not how you expect this reward. Well, it comes with a peace that surpasses all understanding and crazy part is, it won't cost you a penny. And in fact, you can't buy it but you can have it despite your background, your past, whatever. You're currently in the middle of. You see throughout history, flawed individuals like you and I. Elijah had anxiety issues. Moses had difficulty speaking clearly. Sampson had some serious relationship problems Rehab, was a prostitute. Almost all of the disciples abandoned Jesus in his darkest hour, and Paul humanly possible But despite all of their flaws, we still hear their names mentioned today, not because of their achievements, but because when we hear their names, we hear the stories of God's goodness. It's peace, strength, rehabilitation, my story is one of God's love, deliverance and relentless grace. What's yours? Servant. The servant of the Lord. Yeah. He helps us a lot. No. No servant of the Lord. Him. The the tattoo on his neck. It means servant of the Lord in Hebrew, You know Hebrew? I know lots of languages really. I didn't know that. Hey say something in another language. Tetelestai