*theme from Outer Wilds* What's more natural than a day-night cycle? Every morning is a new beginning, and has Every one of you, everyone you've ever known, We're all locked into the rhythm of the No matter what comes to pass, the sun arrives Oh, right, video games. It's no surprise that games use day-night pop up everywhere, that doesn't mean every They can show up as anything from a graphical From a simple timer to a dose of realism in From a thing that shows up as a different game you're even playing. Let's talk about how games can use a day-night up for. If you're working day and night to get a project sponsor, Milanote! Milanote is a fantastic tool to help you get It's a slick and easy online interface where and mood boards. Notes and themes. Todos and inspiration. Milanote keeps everything in one place so It's especially great for distributed teams everyone on the same page working towards owl or an early bird. It's incredibly easy to use, whether you're and no matter the size of your team. Milanote has intuitive drag-and-drop controls if you've got a game idea kicking around, together. It's free to sign up! Click the link in the description to help Thanks, Milanote! Games need to change. Wait, hang on, not like that. I mean it more literally. Games need to change as you're playing them. If the experience of playing a game starts hold a player's attention for very long. Now, having a game change over time is not The idea of change is so broad that it can In an RPG, maybe the story changes and moves In a game like Rocket League, the rules are a little differently, and the depth of the at them over time. The experience of playing the game is not It changes. Day-night cycles give you a ton of different and you can use different elements of that context of the world you're making. Anything from aesthetics, to story setup, your game to real life. You've got lots of options. But let's start with the most straightforward You don't have to do all that much to take It can just be about aesthetics. You can make your game look a little different will give a taste of a changing world, even Super Mario Sunshine is all about that glorious For every shine sprite you collect, you bring Most stages you enter take place in broad Serena Beach dips into the twilight to create One stage, though, covers a full day and night Pianta Village. The ancestral home of the Piantas host 8 shines, The changing atmosphere lends itself to a The stage events feel like they happen over festival in the end. Compared to the other stages, Pianta Village rather than just a course for Mario to jump You don't even strictly need an actual cycle If certain areas of your world are just always-day of an area feeling clearly distinct from others versions of the area. Take Toad's Turnpike from Mario Kart 64. It's a sunset highway track, whose atmosphere The track is... well, it's a boring figure you can run into. But it definitely has a mood. What would happen if you converted it to daytime? Well now it's just my morning commute. That ain't right. Dark City Treno in Final Fantasy IX is perpetually Most everywhere else in the game is rendered the building facades and cobblestone streets very distinct and identifiable feel as a city The cycle isn't a true cycle, of course. There's no Light City Treno. But the second you leave, the world goes back The world gives the impression of changing if the places themselves don't change. OK, let's go a little deeper than just the How can day and night affect a game's story? Plenty of games take place over the course set dressing to establish the mood. Devil May Cry 3 opens in twilight for its night as Dante enters the ancient tower where At the end of the first act, you reach the the dramatic backdrop of a rainstorm and a By the end of the game, the journey is complete to move forward. It's not a SUBTLE metaphor, but it's a nice Resident Evil 4 uses the shifting time of parasite works to ramp up the tension and Las Plagas is weak to sunlight, and as the infected by Las Plagas get more dangerous The areas that you've already passed through you have to double back through them later The shifting time in Resident Evil 4 and Devil to help create striking setpieces and organically in the game. Let's get out of aesthetics and lore for What else can a day-night cycle do? Besides setting up the story, the day night game, but that isn't the only approach to It's super common to have a cycle where two different experiences, and what you're game is in. Action-adventure games will implement it like Zelda series has had a couple of different Like in Ocarina of Time. If you're almost anywhere other than a town sun will rise and set over a few minutes. At night, different enemies spawn compared world features would change on a schedule. The drawbridge to Hyrule Castletown would Some NPCs, quest lines, or even mini-games you arrived in the morning or at night. You'll have moments like being given an As morning comes, the egg hatches into a fully to progress. The flow of time becomes an ingredient in charm and more depth to quest design beyond check off. Though, there are a couple of issues with that you have to work around. What do you do if you need to be at a place Do other stuff while you wait? Meh. Wait around? That's not fun. How about time travel? The Sun's Song lets you swap between day and the schedule how you want it. For games like Elder Scrolls or Outer Wilds, but it's all a different coat of paint on Time travel, no matter how it looks, helps to be fun. Majora's Mask makes the whole game around It's about managing a scripted schedule People, questlines, and events aren't only day or night in the 3 day cycle it is. The game's central threat is the moon coming with each passing day. You have to work within the cycle, resetting permanent upgrades and progression items that over. You have to be at the right place at the right what you have to do. The first night there might be an attempted You might complete a task so you can open next afternoon, something that can get complex mask. This one takes up nearly the entire 3 day specific tasks at specific times in order falls. Wind Waker did the same type of day-night more complications. Night time had an extra detail in that the You can't find this ghost ship right here moon's right. Or, y'know, magic song your way out of it. Twilight Princess, same deal, but, uh oh, There's a side quest to find 40 hidden Poes at night. You could teleport around to manipulate what which isn't gonna help find any Poes. It might seem like a copout, but time travel, fend off a lot of design issues when you're Skipping that feature for the sake of realism get to that later. Enough about Zelda. What about games in other genres? You can use a day-night cycle to change their Often, it'll be a backdrop for implementing Like in Mario Party 6. The whole thing is themed around a day-night Yeah, Mario Party 2 had a board that sorta of EVERY board. And it's more elaborate. Each game board has unique mechanics influenced Some boards keep it simple and have different Others might change the price of a star or That's not all, though. The minigames are also influenced by the time Sometimes it's just cosmetic, but some minigames One has you platforming on top of paratroopas while at night, you have to fall down, avoiding Snowflake Lake does something even more complicated. The rules on Snowflake Lake are a little unusual. Instead of traveling the board to collect steal from your opponents to get more. Ride a chain chomp around the outer edges Day and night heavily influence how strong During the day, you only roll one dice block safe in the center of the board to avoid anyone At night, the center is blocked off, and players roll while riding the chain chomp. The rhythm of day and night creates different to a match. It feels like a completely different game game and the whole series. I love Snowflake Lake. My friends do not. The day-night cycle of Mario Party 6 works boards, adding strategy to a series that could keep the game from getting too repetitive Moonlighter uses a day-night cycle to split you're running a shop selling adventuring and a night-phase where you're fighting the groceries and books from chests and whatever. The shift in gameplay style is the metronome strokes. You don't have to always stick strictly If you want to fight stuff by day once in But most often, you're flipping between The change in time prevents one side or the Survival games are usually pretty aggressive Don't Starve, Minecraft, and Terraria are and building a shelter for survival. The whole reason you need a shelter is because More aggressive enemies will spawn that you well, especially early in the game. In Don't Starve especially, you need to to keep the scariest parts of the dark at meter. Survival games are about staying on top of survive at night is treated as a stress test, If you can overcome the worst of what the day. So we've talked about how day-night cycles story, or determine how its gameplay can change, too. Like if instead of a day-night cycle you made make the game look or play differently to There is, though, one unique superpower a to replicate any other way. A well-designed day-night cycle is an amazing of the game. Every bit of Animal Crossing revolves around system's clock and calendar. It tries to mimic real life as much as it Sunrise and sunset will change depending on Shops will open and close at specific times Events happen at set hours. The progress you make can depend on when you're catalog will get them delivered to you in When you start to build new town features real, actual time to complete. The villagers have their own schedules determined at different hours depending on their personality Bugs and fish will appear and disappear at The cycle mimicking the real world creates you want to check in on daily, rather than There's one big problem with tying a game Very few people play games at random hours If you have an event in your game set to go are going to see it. Certain features can be harder to access depending If you can't play Animal Crossing until because they're closed. If you can't play on a weekend, more things I'm not a morning person, so I can't do happens on Sunday mornings, which are my least New Horizons does allow you to adjust these still be inconvenient for certain players. Another way around it would be to just speed Shenmue tries this. This will untie the game from the real clock, around if the rest of the game is built around When the game first came out, one of Shenmue's of the town of Yokosuka. Well, minus the karate fights. The whole town is on a realistic, albeit sped-up Everything opens and closes at normal business - work, home life, and of course, investigating and his secret mirror while kicking his henchmen We still know nothing about this man, 3 games Now, being a realistic, grounded depiction an option. A store closing up for the night right when but it gets quickly eclipsed by the annoyance even if it's on a sped-up schedule. They were still feeling out how to balance So there you go, aesthetics, story, gameplay More often than not, a game picks one or a they do a day-night cycle. But every once in a while some developer tries All of them. Like Pokemon. Pokemon's day night cycles aren't all the full spectrum of options in one game or Pokemon's day-night cycle first shows up The real-life time of day dictates the time Or at least what's on your system clock. Playing at night has a simple filter over Sometimes. Not gen 3. More important is how different times of day events to happen. This bug-catching contest only happens on Other events tie to how much time has passed. To bait out certain Pokemon, you would need few hours before it would start working. Planting berries also took a few actual hours The biggest impact the day-night cycle had Some were only findable in the wild by day. In generation 4's Old Chateau, ghost Pokemon Some Pokemon need the right time of day to Two of the Eeveelutions were only gettable You have items like the Dusk Ball that has Day and night are frequently used as design dozen Pokemon associated with either the sun Gen 7 is named Pokemon Sun and Pokemon Moon, from each other, so the morning in Sun is The whole series is a grab bag of day-night the implementation in one generation, just Let's talk in the comments about your favorite you've seen other games try. Day and night are a scaffold that games can stories, and help keep a game fresh by setting If you're careful, day-night cycles can world. *chill vibes outro from Xenoblade Chronicles*