Tiffany, is a very neon 80s name, and not it exploded in popularity during the decade. wasn't born in the 80s. [&quot;OMG that's like, positively medieval.&quot; &quot;How Well, let me tell you the tale of tracking It starts in the year 300, with this guy, A historian and bishop in the Holy Land. and the word for that in the Greek he wrote In ye olden days religious virtue names were and Theophania became a name given to children Though no five syllable name can go unnicked, was inevitable. then spread with the Greek language. with the Empress of the Holy Roman Empire, probably pronounced *tay-off-ahnu*. a whole other thing that we are going to skip and it doesn't help that the Empress's name so it's impossible to know if she want by which are all close to Tiffany, but not quite. title was But that's just speculation. precursor [Spoiler for History] evidence, for anything lost. trusses of trust It's time to try to find the true old-time By working backwards through hundreds of years and if you did that in English, you wouldn't thanks for nothing *Doomsday Book*. find Tiphaine Raguenel, A noble lady astrologer who lived in and used her astrological powers to predict of her husband's knighting battles. And she was righter than wronger [Grand Constable of France, First Officer On the island there's still a little museum Though the one thing you won't find in that which was turned up just a few years ago with a note on it saying *this is the skull and given anonymously to the local library. Wait, why are we talking about this? that's pretty much spelled Tiffany, But were you to keep going backwards through you'd also strike a Trio of Tiffanies in Paris but all that is known about them is their wax maker, washer woman and spinster. Thus this foursome of French Tiffany's written that Tiffany is totally neon medieval. how did a Greek name from here, ME TOO! that might be a list of names for, If you were lucky you would eventually stubble *Transcripts of Charters relating to Gilbertine containing a single Tiffany, but that's close enough to count, How did she get there? but Tephany had a Grandfather named Hugh, to travel to the Holy Land in And going through the surviving records of there are candidate Hughs, 100%, I'm still calling it that Grandpa Hugh on came across an Epiphany Tiffany and the English language. It all fits! if Tiffany in its modern form is near a millennia why don't we think of it that way? A lack of famous Tiffany's. to be named Tiffany except not exactly a Tiffany, until hopefully now, that is. be sure to tell 'em Grey sent you. on fame to pop in popularity like it would Just sporadically showing up in written records Which, as an alternate history side note, Jane Austen was writing *Emma*, with its exact modern spelling. name she could have picked Tiffany neon as well. is tots perfect for the character. and Tiffany remained a name, without fame. but jumping backwards, In 1629, Tiffany does appears on an English *finally* as a last name with one Mr. Henry Tiffany, Ok, so he wasn't born a Tiffany. you'd find he was Henry Tiffin at the time, the record now shows him as the first of the Why the name change? Consistent spelling in the English language None other than Tiffen/Tiffany's contemporary never spelled his signature the same way twice. *whatever* with the written word. and because the world is just too perfect I'm *also* calling it that this Mr. Tiffany, English language, of Tiffany's Come with me. Humphrey Tiffany who moved to the shiny New sometime before 1660. and simultaneously removed it from England as he was Henry Tiffany's only surviving son James Tiffany in 1666. to Ebineezer Tiffany, 1734 to 1812 Charles Lewis Tiffany. to light. Charles Lewis Tiffany, with some friends, shop named Charles Lewis Tiffany eventually took control changed the name to *Tiffany &amp; Co* well except for that period during the Civil when he switched to manufacturing swords as but after that, back to jewelry. for Tiffany was her most prominent placement, and it remained so until 1958 when Truman The name caught the author's attention And he wrote and published the Novella Prior to this moment Tiffany as a first name Averaging under ten babies a year. in the name, but what definitely isn't is in 1961, Hepbun, that this role icon, Tiffany had found her fame. Setting a solid base for an exponential explosion, as children grew, having seen the movie, Bringing us to 1979 and there are almost 10,000 Now, we are still on a Truss of Trust for maybe isn't wasn't the store, turned story, It could have been a coincidence. you can always draw some convincing correlations. 60s and early 70s But by the late 70s there was a new invention. The video home system 480 pixels. *Breakfast at Tiffany's* happens to be the Audrey Hepburn movie released on VHS in, 1979. Rolling into the 80s torrent of Tiffanies, of ten years. Theophany, in prehistory. She's carried her neon torch though the ages. To Tiffany.