Ciao guys! If you're looking for off-the-beaten-path the right place! In this video non-touristy things to do in Venice. show you the real Italy with our local tips. If you love Italy subscribe to our channel. Now relax, sit back, and get ready to explore San Giorgio is a nice escape from the crowds. of St. Mark Square, it's a 5-minute It's very interesting to visit it to especially if you climb on the San Worth a visit is also the monastery that The basilica, the cloister, and the dining were designed during the 16th century by who built many villas in Veneto, that are a Defined as one of the most beautiful the Acqua Alta bookshop is a dream for There is an infinite choice of books and bathtubs, plus a staircase entirely The place is full of cats, they like From a window of the bookshop you can also right in front of Tetta palace, we'll talk Gondolas are considered very touristic classic touristic tour. are a public transport service. local you need to take a gondola-traghetto, it's used to cross the Grand Canal. will cost you 2 euros. In Squero San Trovaso you will find a they only restore small boats here, like gondolas. The word Squero means &quot;shipyard&quot; in Venetian dialect, and this is one of the oldest in town. You can participate in a 30-minute explained all the gondolas building Right in front of the Squero there is a best cicchetti, keep watching to learn what food is that. Everyone knows about the majestic St. inside the basilica Here two reasons not to miss it: of the four horses at the entrance of the basilica that date back almost two millennia. And 2) from the museum you can access to the the bell tower, and the Doge Palace. climb to the terraces a few minutes so you will have a privileged view of Close to St. Mark Square you will find Apart from notable works of art by the small crypt is worth a visit as it's because it's built at a very low You can buy your ticket to visit the it costs 3 euros. The Contarini Palace was built during the 14th century for the powerful Contarini family. in Venetian dialect it's called &quot;bobolo&quot;. couldn't stand the fact that their as it was hidden among narrow alleys. baroque twist. From the top you can see the Doge Palace Calle Varisco is the narrowest street in Venice, When you're close to it very difficult to find the exact point Do you think this is a church? The building was the headquarters of a established in 1260. During Napoleon's the confraternity was abolished and the military hospital first, Don't be afraid to enter, you are allowed floor, always with respect for local patients, of course. A &quot;bacaro&quot; is a restaurant serving the traditional composed of cicchetti, very small one after the other, just like Spanish Usually you match chicchetti with Spritz, invented in Veneto, a kind of sparkling wine only produced in Fondamenta Cannaregio area. Venice is known all over the world for its Carnival. During the Venetian Republic masks were but also in many other occasions like during gambling. is the black death doctor, epidemics in town avoid being contaged. masks but not all of them are made in Venice. If you want to buy a true local artisan-made mask go to Ca' Macana - this shop supplied masks like Eyes Wide Shut by Stanley Kubrick Tetta Palace is one of the few buildings in the on three sides, so the Tetta family could Venetians love to go to this historical Don't miss this out, it's it's open from Monday to Saturday morning. it's called Rialto because it's right In the past young people used to meet of the Carnival. merchants, the market also sold exotic Accademia Bridge is the southest of the so you will get a glimpse of the final In our opinion plus it's not as crowded as Rialto. These are our favorite non-touristy Don't make the same mistake most St. Mark Square! Venice is unique! let us know in the comments below. Subscribe to our channel so you will