Hi everyone, I'm Anson Alexander using macOS. This is actually the third time that I try to update it as the Now I'm going to frame things from the I know there are a lot of Windows users to Mac and it will explain things, you Mac compared to how But this tutorial should this is the first time used a computer. I do want to say that I'm going to talking about pretty much all So do remember to the table of contents, follow along on your own computer on my desktop that you might So without further adieu, let's Okay so here we are on macOS and account so it should look pretty But it does depend on what And let's go ahead and take a look at that. This presents an opportunity for me in macOS and that is up here at And if you click on it, you'll notice options in here and this is kind of like clicking on the really just the core functions of Mac so we're not like that from here. We are restarting our computer. We are shutting it down. We're sleeping it. And we can also access which is essentially Windows and we are in there and take a yet. We're going to look at a few But, what I want to look at right What this does is tell me about the hardware of my computer but, you'll notice down you can see that I'm So that's the current if you're running an I have those two produced over the to them in the description So if you have an older version, And this tutorial right here should there won't be updates to the operating system that are Apple does do things quite subtly even in the future. Now that's how we can but let's go ahead and we can close out going to the top left red X. So that's how we can close out that little bit more in depth when and folders on our of thing. So just to recap real the Apple menu by these are where you have those down and then of course which we'll look But right now I want to feature here on Mac It's essentially like Windows search. So in Windows you go to the start kind of search your Well we have that on Mac as It's this magnifying glass and if search your entire computer. For those of you who the keyboard shortcut is Command + Spacebar. So I'm just going to do that now. You can see - Command + Spacebar - searches for anything on the computer so folders, documents, music, whatever I'd like. So let's go ahead and So you'll notice that when I search appear and the one that I'm So Safari is Apple's web browser. And I'll be honest with you, I I use Google Chrome. I like being able to use the same Mac, PC, Android, iOS. I like that it syncs with my Google But I do recommend if you're first just to check it out and see if you like it and if you like Google Chrome and Firefox and I will show you how But for now, you know, for Safari and I do if you're not seeing what you're way to the bottom and option that says will bring up a you to look for that But I'm not going to do that right how to use Finder a little bit more subtly right in through But this is how you can search for about creating folders But quite honestly, something on my Even if I have a folder for it and then if I go into my folder structure. So that is how you can The next thing I probably something that On the bottom of our screen, we applications that we can use. So I'm just going to briefly Finder allows us to on our computer and Finder a little bit later it's kind of like Finder is always running on your computer. If Finder isn't running, you It's what controls how things are files and folders. So you use Finder when you're managing at that here in a little bit. But you'll notice that even with no it still says Finder And I will tell you that whatever will be listed up So if we were in Safari, it So just by being here that Finder is open say anything other than Finder If you have no applications open, that is the default application. And I know that seems like a long It's a really important concept to get understanding how Finder works. But we will get into that a little Launchpad gives you a quick way Safari is Apple's web browser. We talked about it. You can do iMessage here on your Mac. So if you have an iMessage like that, phone, you can just type on This is Apple's Mail app. You can set up really any Personally, I wouldn't recommend it. I like having my email in a browser. I use Gmail or if I'm I still use a web mail app instead of But a lot of people do like Apple Mail. So if that's something you're Open it up and check it out. You have access to Apple Maps here. Obviously your photos. That will be important if you have an photos with it. You can upload them to your computer, sort of thing. You can do FaceTime on your computer. You have access to Apple's calendar system. That actually does work pretty well. I do use Google because I use But it is one of Apple that actually You have your contacts. So if you have an all your contacts Makes it easy to FaceTime them. You can use reminders. You can create notes. It's kind of like stickies. And we have this new application have to worry about if You can access Apple TV, Now these three are relatively important. You have access to And these are Apple's default So Pages is equivalent to Microsoft Word. Numbers is equivalent to Excel. And Keynote is equivalent to PowerPoint. I will say I don't really Well, hold that thought. I don't use Numbers because Pages I rarely use, but it is nice if It's easier to Word or Google Docs So it is nice for that. Keynote I use every day. I do my YouTube thumbnails in Keynote. It's actually a really awesome design tool. I use it more for kind of designing do actually presentations. But Keynote is super powerful As we move further over, So that's obviously important. And when you first turned on your setup process, which I And it asked you if you wanted So if you did, you this App Store and If you haven't logged in with an with an Apple account or create And it might even require It doesn't mean you're You know how it works, right? On mobile devices, it is if you do buy charge you right away. But if you just download the free And then we also have settings down here And then this app is my recording And we also have access to our downloads. So by default, when you download to the downloads folder. We can get to downloads we can also just click here and it will open that up. And then finally, we have our trash. Now I will say there are some big know, in terms of computing. One thing is the right click. When in doubt, you can right click. So for example, if I wanted to empty right click, I now have the And if I were to go to my desktop, I I have some options. I could create a folder. This desktop will function So we can have organize things right It's kind of, it's actually So I could create a new folder right here. I could change my wallpaper. So when in doubt, right click. Now some of you might say, So let's take a look at And really, in addition to that, we're for the first time now and start to look around So I'm going to go up here to the system settings. And then from here, is actually quite versions of my tutorial because they've that actually used to be called And this whole navigation But a lot of the settings are the same. They just look a little bit different. So obviously, you can If you're having the click, you're going You're probably using a, well, you mouse, depending But you want to go to either trackpad that your secondary. click right here is So you want to make For a trackpad, there might be a You want to make sure that that is enabled. And then your right But let's go back up to the top and system settings. So obviously, you by clicking here and You can connect all of You can manage notifications. So if we click on notifications, apps down here that are If we get annoyed by And then as we download new apps, notifications and it this is where we could You have all of your So what speakers you're you're using, all There's a few kind of options in here you're doing a lot of work, Or if you want to limit your screen screen time. Those are kind of minor features. There's quite a few things here So if we look at general, this is where And if there are computer, you'll dot somewhere here in the system So it'll kind of let you know. This is where we can look at So you can see I'm using almost So you can kind of look in there and space on your computer. You can customize your airdrop settings. So for those of you who are new to files, photos, videos, iPhone to your Mac You just share the photo on your iPhone. You have to make sure airdrop is same accounts or at set in a certain way And you can just drop those Actually when I'm is actually being I'm just going to airdrop that And that's where you can I know you're used to this. If you're coming from Windows, You have to go into, you used to have into the right area to modify I think it's a lot easier now on Windows. But here it is on Mac. It also used to be So you can see in here, I don't have when my computer logs in but I do have that are allowed to So I could say, you know, I So I could go to disable it and it's This is like the administrator password. So I can just disable allowing Zoom Let's go back here to general. Obviously, you can customize your sort of thing. If you're doing a backup this is where you Moving down here, you know, you've So you can kind of customize Do you want to use a light, dark theme? Do you want it to change So there's all sorts of options like that. All of your accessibility options are here. Privacy and security options. So this has to do with So if you want to check what apps thing, you can look in there. I really recommend that you all come take a look at these You're not really and it's just going to your computer more because I don't, I'm not every single setting I don't know. I don't think you would want me to do that. So just kind of more important ones, So this is something that we're So you'll notice that dock at the very I personally don't like it So I like to select automatically hide And you'll notice that when I do But if I mouse over it, it pops up. So that's my preference. I'm going to turn it because I'm going to say wrong one. I'm going to show you a So notice we could So if you get a lot of applications on add applications. You might want to make it smaller But you can also specify magnification. So if I mouse over it right now, But if I turn magnification over it, you'll see in a little bit. So that's up to you as well. Again, I'm going to make it so And you'll notice that there are This is where you could change, default web browser. So if you wanted to switch it to I do have it installed on this computer. You won't have that in there yet. I just haven't used it So there's some things in there. You can customize your displays here. So this is where you can And I'll give you a If you right click on one of these option that says show list. Then it will give you I really wish Apple would They try and kind of So you just click on the different options. But here you can So you could change it But I think that's a helpful A lot of advanced Mac users So that should help you getting started. And this is where you brightness, color of thing. You can change your So you can select one of these kind But what you could here to the add folder add a folder to some I don't have anything And then you could put custom wallpapers. But you can also clicking, remember, Right clicking on the desktop So that's kind of easier to do it that way. You can manage your screen saver, Obviously your keyboard and mouse options. That might be important. Oh, there's one thing kind of annoys me And I do want to mention this. You'll notice that to scroll up, at I'm pushing up on my mouse. But it's opposite in Mac. So I have to scroll down for it to go up. So to change that, we scrolling option and And to me, that is how I scroll naturally. So that might, if you're coming from because I'm not sure what Well, that's how you can change that. Okay, so again, system settings. We've modified a few things in here. But obviously you can look Now what I want to talk about I've kind of been I wanted you to get Mac and see how But now it's time. Let's learn about Finder. So what we're going to do is I'm just on the bottom, the dock, and And you'll notice that when And again, this is kind of like using kind of looking And you'll notice right So if I had used any recent But I also have access to So I could access the Applications folder. You'll notice that I do have Yours might look a little bit different First of all, I'm going to sort it by name. So I just clicked on the Name It was previously sorted by date modified. But then I'm also going to change my view. So up here at the top we have I believe the default looks like this, which actually kind of like that view. You can see the little icons and So obviously you can look through maybe open some up There's a ton of cool But talking about the views, so the think what we were first in. I definitely like this when I'm them and maybe even I do prefer this view. Some people like this other view very well, but I kind of And there is a folder in here. There's a Utilities folder. So if we click on a folder in here, everything within And if there was another folder in would see everything And this is actually a very Mac view. I think this is one of And it is very useful. I do use it quite a bit. So that is something that And then the fourth view is Gallery view. This is good when you're You can just kind of use your arrow through all of these different right now applications, we're looking at. So let's go ahead and let's One other thing that I want to your computer, if you're looking at especially an an application, so we can just click on this chess no other key, just spacebar. If it's an image or a video, it'll video will actually play. And you'll notice that for an that application, how large it is, when We could share it from here. We could open it from here. But again, this works really nice with see the preview if thumbnail to know looking at. So if you're looking to access an the applications folder. Now the desktop folder. This is actually just another way So this is the same on Windows. You can move files can go through Windows modify your desktop. So why don't we create a folder? So I'm just going to looking at the desktop going to right click and click new folder. And we'll just call this test folder. And you'll notice also shows the folder It's the same folder. We're just looking at it from two Again, you can also do that on Windows. So it's very similar in that sense. So we can play with files on our desktop. If you like to organize desktop, then you folders and you can That's fine. You can also have access to this It's just a folder called documents. There's nothing really So you can put whatever you want in here. You can not use it. I tend to keep the files that I'm current week, And then I got to that documents folder it when I get a chance. Let's not talk about it. Anyways, that's where Again, you can create We also have the downloads folder. So by default, when a web browser like going to go to the downloads folder. So if you're looking for something tried Spotlight, right? You still can't find it, you might Now you'll notice that there's a these locations. iCloud Drive allows iCloud so you can You can access kind of like a Google And then Boot Camp, I actually have a Boot Camp, which you can do as well if you go into to utilities, which we There are a bunch of And you can use what's called Boot partition on your computer and It's a full Windows installation. I use it every day. I go back and forth and it works great. So that's a really great But this, when I'm looking over here that partition on my computer. So you won't see that there's nothing for you're on Mac. That's just so that I can run Windows. So I just wanted you to know what that is. But I do want to customize a few here in Finder and on Mac. So first of all, notice Finder, we have a bunch here at the top. And this is going to much any application In Windows, a lot of times you have menu, but nowadays it's Even if you have the three dots on application name in Always, always, always. So anyways, you can click on Finder But if we go to Settings, we can And this is something that I One thing that I check this checkbox Notice that when I my two hard drives So I have my Macintosh And that to me just kind of makes Because if I ever need to find something sometimes when you click on Finder recents location, as to really where you are. So if you just double click on your level of your computer. It's like going to the C drive on Windows. So now you can start you can kind of look try this file path. No, that's not where I want to go. Generally, you're going to You're going to find your current house on it because that's the This is called my Home folder. And within my Home folder, you'll which we've already looked We already looked at downloads. We have a few other files too. Movies, music, and pictures. Guess what? They're folders. They're just folders. You can use them for whatever you'd like. You can put pictures in the But you might have noticed I can actually click them to put them in And you can do this with So we created a test folder earlier. If I grab that off the ahead and I can drag This feature I do use because there the time that are kind of So I can just move Finder and I can just I'm in that folder. So that is definitely Let me just pull these Connected servers might be a If you're remotely they would then So again, you could go You'll notice that you can change So instead of showing Recents, you drive or computer. So this is actually even at a lower Or I could have it open up my Or if you like the show you files that So that's up to you. A few other things over here. If you go to Sidebar, this is where folders to the sidebar. And notice they get And then under Advanced, I like to file name extensions. Maybe that's just me that, but it'll make have a DocX on our computer, it will know that it's a DocX. So I like to enable that Notice you can also have the trash you would like. And just a few other options in there. So those are the Finder settings. But if we go back up here to these And again, this is going to be in So from here, you could So this would allow you to have move files from I could take this test folder, I could test folder and I could So that allows you to open In here, you can always copy I think that's kind of And a lot of the keyboard shortcuts So to copy on Mac, it's just Command. And Command is the button on your So Command and C. Paste Command V. Windows, it's Control V. Command W will close a window. Command R will refresh Command T opens a new tab. Command N opens a new window. Command M will minimize the window. You get the idea. It's just Substitute, Control for There are a few most part, they're So if we go back up here to these View menu, we could also customize how we're looking We could sort things from in here. Few other options. One thing I do want to look I kind of wish that this was in the then you go to the So you'll notice that we do have So we could increase the We could change the text size if it's too Kind of some nice little So I did want to show you that area. Just like on Windows, if we want to it and instead of saying Delete, we and it will send it You'll notice that of trash shown here right click and hit Empty Alternatively, just like on Windows, just a left click and click on an item in Back and for loop, it will send So now what I want to talk about using going to talk about these little They can be a little confusing on Mac. So I want to use Safari to do that though. So I'm just going to close these. Obviously, that red So to access Safari, we're just going going to click once, left click So before we start surfing here with So the first button, the red X, will second here because it does not quit the application on Windows. If you hit that X on Windows, I'm kind of goes down to the dock but usually if you application. It's closing it. On Mac, it's just closing the window. To quit out of Safari, we need to go name of whatever We're going to go down to Quit Safari. Alternatively, we could press Command out of that application. Okay, so that is the difference quitting an application. Now let's talk about So the yellow one is and it is the same as So if we hit this yellow line button, animation and it goes down So this is where it's resting in our dock. If I click on it, it will open back up. Alternatively, if you like keyboard and it will minimize Let's go ahead and open that back up. Now this little green to update it over the isn't the most functional. The best way to use right there is to And again, this is of advanced Mac But if you just click this green full screen like that, but sometimes it just like puts you can kind of see why When you actually the green button, then want to tile it to the I can move it to one of my So I often use these actually just clicking Just wait a second and then So those are how those Now let's talk about Safari. Safari is just like Google To get started, we we can either search So I could just go to notice that it loads in any other browser. Now at the same time, we So instead of entering could have just and you'll notice that Up here in the top left, We could go forward If we wanted to share a page, And we can open a new tab But just like in other also press command new tab opens up. We could just hit the We can drag and just like we would Now let's take a options we have up So you'll notice that we can access also because this is the same If you ever want to get into an with the application name And you'll notice that in here, we can So when we open up Safari, A new window, our windows from options that are So you can choose that. A new window opens with the start page. That's that page of just shows our So we could say, hey, I want And a new tab opens up Then I could change my homepage right here. So I could just change it to my website. And you notice that you have Remove history items. Notice that you have a whole You can customize how your So that's auto filling Any of passwords you can save them in other web browsers. You can specify your default search engine. I don't know why you would And you've got some other options as well. In advanced, you might find some sort of thing. But those are just some general options. If I ever want to add in Safari, I can just menu and click on Add Bookmark. It will ask me where I'd like to add it to. So you can add it to a which will show up Or you could just put it in the To access your bookmarks, you're you can click on Show Bookmarks. And they will appear over here You could go back up to bookmarks Now again, I don't So if you wanted to could simply go and Google Chrome. Oh, it actually took me to But you could search for it or just Notice it says Download Chrome. So you're just going to click on that Obviously, you want downloaded sources a little bit less of a chance of But it's not Ironclad. So notice when we downloaded So we could click up here We also saw that it went down here our Downloads folder is So we can also get it from there. And I want to show you this because I but I want to show you what installing So we're just going to start installing So I'm just going just like clicking on because this opens and shows me the Notice that it is our Downloads folder it to go, but just making sure. So now to install this file, any going to be called .dmg. So you would double click on the screen like this. You might just have kind of a Windows just walk through But if you see this, is just click and applications. It says, &quot;Hey, I'm going to replace already have one.&quot; You know what? I'm fine with that. So I'll just hit replace. Might have to enter administrator password, it in there and that's it. That's how a lot of They don't need to be They just need to be dragged So now if you wanted you could obviously command space bar and you could You don't even have to use your mouse. You can just hit enter Or you could go folder and you could But if I just open it up from Spotlight, the first time I'm opening it. Asks me if I want to set it as default. Sure. I'm going to set it as not. And kind of Apple's sure you want to Yeah, I'm sure. I'll use Chrome. Notice that Chrome didn't So we can drag Windows larger You can either go to a corner You can drag it from an edge Now here's a feature I miss on Mac, but Mac So one thing is what have multiple monitors that I want to put on my other monitor. I would just drag it to the top and It's not full screen, but it's maximized. It's the whole window. On Apple that doesn't work. All I have to do is double Now it's full screen. Okay, so that's the equivalent here on Mac. But here we are in Google Chrome. Now a couple things. First of all, if we go down to our Google Chrome icon and we have the dot under it What we can do is we can right click we can select keep in dock. So that means that Google Chrome, it so we can easily click on it to open it up. If we don't select that, when we from our bottom dock and we're going applications folder open it back up. So for anything that basis, you're going You're going to want to right click Now alternatively, there might be and you can get rid of them. But you know, like I said, Apple So all I have to do off the dock and then let go. And you'll notice that it So I could do the same with Apple mail. Sorry, but I'm just not, Bye bye. And you'll notice on my Mac, my, my customized in terms I basically clear all of them off. I mean, I don't use a calendars. I don't need contacts. You do have to hold second notice, but I I don't use reminders notes, You know how Chrome works. I'm not going to give you a Remember, if we that Chrome is So we haven't quit out of it. We've just closed the window. We'll notice that there's a red So I can go up to Chrome and I can some of this. So you can close out these windows. I'm not going to be using Safari. So I now clicked on the Now I can go and I can quit out of Safari. And now one thing I little drive on my install Google Chrome. I don't need that anymore. That's kind of like the install file. So I can go ahead and Chrome after right get that off my system. That's how you can and all of that sort Just a couple last things before Notice that there are some different So this is where we can see the time, symbol here. And if we click on WiFi, we can connected to and So I hope you all found this video helpful. What I would recommend if you're customize your dock. Get the applications down Get the other ones off of there. And then start thinking about how So maybe you use the documents there, then go into Safari or Chrome and maybe download some sort of file on your computer and kind of put start to kind of But things are very smooth on Mac. At the end of the day, it works very kind of, it's almost like You know, we're still in the same way, but what it looks like or what it sounds like. So again, I hope you all If you did, I would really appreciate And if you want to see more technology subscribe to my YouTube channel. That's all I have for you for today. It was a lot, I know. This is Anson from AnsonAlex.com.