Four hundred thousand years ago, He's the first representative the Homo sapiens, our family. His children cross the seas They adapt to every climate. Time and again, they lose everything, but they reach beyond their limits They discover agriculture They build villages Man becomes the most powerful creature They explore their imaginary world and in the process Over the last 50,000 generations, their knowledge We are their children. What's their real story? How do they populate the earth? How did they make our lives Here is the story of the dazzling rise the Homo sapiens. How does this story begin? How did our species appear? Where did it come from? Remember, 8 million years ago, Water is locked into the poles and an enormous ice cap forms In the North, In the tropics, life desperately struggles In Africa, the great apes Two of them, Orrorin and Toumai and invent a new way to get around. They stand up. Four million years ago, they disappear, giving birth to a new, the Australopithecus. Lucy and her fellow creatures They survive by eating hardy plants, They are no match for their predators. Next, Homo habilis arrives on the scene. This skillful man is the first He invents tools and starts to explore His evolution changes him the standing man, discoverer of fire. He's not yet king of the animal world, Erectus sets out to conquer the world. He leaves Africa Unknowingly, a few thousand little groups prepare for the arrival of our species. Imagine 400,000 years ago. We are in the heart Homo erectus sometimes walks He chases small animals and picks berries Sometimes, he dies along the way. At best, he lives to about 25 or 30. They feel the loss deeply, Erectus doesn't know anything Where has the breath gone? Why doesn't he move? Meanwhile, the threat of danger Walk or die, it's the law. The body is left to the animals. They'll remember the person for a while When erectus settles down for the night, first, he makes a shelter Then he builds a fire He's able to make all sorts of tools, but this is of little use She's been eating nothing but roots She needs protein. She doesn't want any more roots. The erectus Chief is well aware He knows that roots are bitter He doesn't need to be reminded. Erectus is curious Although the Chief today, he takes pleasure Suddenly, it doesn't resonate. Nothing. There. It's much better Homo erectus is a hunter. At dawn, the Chief and his brother from She who walks on two legs. They know she's a fast runner, One attracts her attention Ready to attack. Termites, the irresistible yellow ones. The Chief knows She's obsessive about her eggs, and knows them all individually. If one were to go missing, The chase is on, What's his brother doing? If she catches him, she'll kill him. Her legs cut like flint. Her beak is like a spear tip. The brother always manages He can't be trusted. The animal can't escape. All is well. It's a good day for erectus. Erectus starts by eating the stomach, Then he cuts up the animal Images of the capture It was easy There's an idea there, but the flies distract him and keep him Erectus's body is less and less hairy. Insects constantly attack his naked skin, but the brother's privates are protected. It's the animal skin. With the protective skin, Perhaps this is how Erectus Hierarchy determines the sharing of meat. The hunters are served first. Then, the preferred females, The woman carrying the child now has meat. Erectus is flushed with pride at having done his duty When in power, because there's always The skin. He forgot his skin. It's his skin. It's his place, and he's the Chief. Some things aren't shared. Like the woman carrying the child. Like suffering or hope. The Chief's head is brimming with images. He can't stop thinking of a hole, so he decides to dig one in the hopes that they fall in Digging in the mud Surprised, the Chief They may well have just invented laughter. Perhaps the first laughs of humanity, thanks to an important find, He finds it pretty, A treasure that's a joy to behold. What's it like on him? Isn't he handsome? Handsome and different, It's his sign, the sign of the Chief. The Chief wants the one carrying the child but now's not the time. She's got searing pains in her stomach. The woman wants to be alone She knows instinctively The Chief is full of hope. The trap, the skin that protects, The child. Will it come? One time out of two, like those who fall on the trail. Sometimes the pain Will a new life begin? It's alive. It's a little girl. She has a funny head with a straight forehead She looks so fragile and vulnerable. The Chief doesn't want the cold He knows now that his skin His skin is for the child. Without knowing it, they've just given birth a species that will soon replace them. Homo erectus senses he's done his time Homo erectus will disappear. He'll have lived Homo sapiens arrives. He will change the life of man The evolution of erectus into sapiens Little by little, his forehead smooth, and his brain became bigger Sapiens leaves Africa He starts to wear clothing, develops a sense of aesthetics, His thoughts and imagination We are at minus 100,000 years. Electrical storms are the worst. They kill every time. Where does this blinding light come from? Who spits this anger One of us will find an answer He's called Neka, the youth. Ever since he's known how to hunt, Neka protects his mother The Clan had walked since daybreak. The wind came up suddenly The Chief looked for refuge We huddled together Naoki, Neka's sister, Her mother followed to protect her. That's when tragedy struck Neka's life. A horned beast appeared Neka sighed, the animal left, leaving the bodies of his sister They were motionless. Neka had been unable to protect them. He felt responsible, The Chief quickly understood but Neka didn't want to believe it. He refused to listen They were dead, and nothing could be done. The Chief wanted to leave but Neka wanted to stay. He wanted to wait until they woke up. The Chief didn't understand, so we stopped there. At the beginning, Sapiens is nomadic. Now, he makes shelters with skins. His language is more sophisticated. He's got words to talk like time behind and time ahead. His brain has more memory His imagination is more active and likely In his sleep, sapiens believes a parallel world The Clan was still sleeping when The body of an animal this size Without a doubt, for Neka, the one who came the day before That time, the Chief wasn't clumsy. The wound would kill her. The Chief was proud. Thanks to him, but Neka had other things on his mind. In the dying breath of the animal, At the same moment the beast died, As the breath of the animal disappeared, How was it possible? Naoki, breathe. She was coming back to life. That's how Naoki came back to us. We were joyful, but Neka was preoccupied. He wanted to understand what had happened. Did the animal give its breath Did the death of the animal It was a big mystery. The Chief expected thanks for his catch, but instead, the Clan was taken up Neka found new hope. Maybe the animal's skin At the beginning, He was obsessed with the idea that the horned beast We hoped that Neka's mother However, we didn't understand He didn't eat. He stayed by the body, waiting for a sign. The sign came from above. It was the vultures, Neka refused. If the vultures took his mother's flesh, It's perhaps on that day that Homo sapiens It protected it, but more importantly, it kept a decomposing body out of sight. Even without vultures, The Chief wanted Neka to eat, which he never does. What he wanted was for Neka He wanted to understand but he was in for another surprise. Neka told him and that she needed to eat. He was delirious, That was too much, She was dead. A few of us The world we went to when we slept. Where we could meet the dead. It was the land of dreams. A few days later, There were a lot of us, They wanted to find another Clan They couldn't put up with him anymore. Before leaving, they wanted to hear one more time. They wanted to hear to remember it. To take it with them. Neka could see the other world. The one where the dead went He saw his mother with the horned beast. His mother looked at him She was no longer hungry or cold. There was a glow behind his eyes a life after death, and that changes everything. These beliefs are probably the beginnings An extraordinary flight of imagination that will endow sapiens The idea of eternity and appeased the anguish of death. Now man can imagine a life The time of shamanistic beliefs The spirit world as a place We are between minus 100,000 Sapiens explores Some head towards Asia, Why do they risk their lives Do they follow the game migrations, Many believe in the power of the sun Fifty thousand years ago, the first group of Homo sapiens This Clan worships the sun. Understandably, its disappearance A woman enters a trance It's coming back. The sun is back. The woman who guides them is a shaman. Her name is Nata, For Nata, the darkened sun is a bad sign. The suns must be strong They will follow them behind the mountains They should have given up when Nevertheless, their faith carries them. They don't hesitate to undertake Sapiens encounters Their feet burn. It acts like a skin and takes on the shape To protect themselves from the cold, Nothing stops the shaman's determination, Their skin starts to tingle, They'd like to go back down, The shaman decides for the Clan. Matriarchy is widespread among sapiens. Women have the authority. They're responsible The men follow. The mute has just lost his ear. There's no blood or pain. What's to be done with his frozen ear? How will they reattach it? The mute awaits the shaman's advice. Nothing can be done except maybe eat it. No, the mute prefers to eat it himself. After all, it's his ear. A new sun rose this morning, but its first rays bring Over thousands of years sapiens skin lightened to better absorb and to promote They have adapted to a weaker exposure While she slept, Nata's elder sister Her cold body became hard like wood. Sapiens' beliefs are as numerous For this Clan, there is no burial site. They offer dead bodies to the light. She in turn eats them and brings them Nata accompanies the dead One day she'll find her sister They continue to plod forward. They've eaten nothing but snow Nata promised them night didn't exist. This gives them courage, but courage doesn't nourish Not every sapiens Some are abandoned without funeral rites. Nata knows the pain her sister is feeling. She feels the suffering of her Clan, How did they survive? Was it their animal skin clothes or the animal fat The conquest of virgin lands Sapiens leaves but every territory they explore Now, they number fewer As their last bit of strength Three shapes covered in snow. They are animals surely. Food to sustain them They're saved. Rocks. Many rocks. What are these rocks A bird wing, Other men have been here, and where do they come from? Why are these bodies Their skulls don't look like ours. Nata is lost, There's nothing to eat, they're condemned. In this hell, no one can survive. No one except maybe an exceptional being. In this cold and hostile Europe, another species of human the Neanderthal. Nata and her companions Neanderthal is also a descendant His ancestor arrived in Europe Of all the human species, the hardiest. The Neanderthal Chief When Nata opens her eyes, she doesn't know What are those beings Neanderthal made numerous discoveries without ever The invisible world, beliefs, He lives in caves and buries his dead. The Moon Clan rescued Nata Their Chief wants to know Nata's face intrigues the Chief. Who are these beings with flat foreheads? They must be revived. The Moon Clan Chief The shaman regains consciousness Everything is strange What are they doing with her man? They can't do that. He must stay with her, she needs him. Differences in culture, For these sapiens, the Neanderthal practices Nevertheless, its culture The next day, the smell of cooked meat Hunger overrules fear. Since the snow, Where are they? Who brought them here? Bit by bit, crowd Nata's thoughts. Who are these people? Memories from her journey surface. It wasn't a dream. Samke, where is he? Nata suddenly remembers She has no idea that it's a tomb. They hid him like games stored for later, Samke is dead. She must give him to the light so that the mountain winds To survive during the cold winter, Neanderthal eats mostly meat. He's the greatest hunter on the planet. As he enters the cave, The corpse buried the day before is gone. It escaped. Where are you? Show yourself! Maybe he went into the ground. What is that strange voice? Is it him calling? The body was there, The Neanderthal Chief The movements of her body intrigue him. Nata and her sister Without knowing it, these sapiens will have discovered This crossing of the Alps opened a route, and others will follow in the This encounter is but the first, In a few millennia, will undertake big game hunting. At the same time, on the other side of the planet, Due to the ice age, the ocean levels The islands of Southeast Asia Homo sapiens' voyage will push him Throughout his migrations, The climates and environments his nose, and the color of his skin. He also discovered a new and marvelous way For generations, the River Clan Water is sacred to them. She's the compass they follow They've been traveling They crossed the Indonesian peninsula Nevertheless, another human He's been observing This human being having arrived here almost he evolved into many subspecies Peking man, Java man, or Flores man. Each of these Only the youth saw the curious man The River Clan is always on the move. They follow the water carried that becomes larger with each passing day. Sixty thousand years ago, the River Clan and discovers the Pacific Ocean For them, this expanse of water It's so wide They know nothing like it. The immense waves and crashing surf They're fascinated. The Chief is determined to find land He decided to split the clan in two. He leaves with his shaman and his family Homo sapiens is still unaware that thousands of kilometers of deep, Carried by their faith, throw themselves into conquering an ocean Those remaining set up camp. Just one warrior protects the best fisher of the Clan. Since they settled in, It's always the same one, Snake Eyes wants to meet him. He knows it's prudent so that they don't become The man always runs away. His behavior is curious. This time, Snake Eyes decided to act. He knows that no man has ever outrun him. In this Asian jungle, decipher the animal cries, He's right there, what does he want? Snake Eyes is captured Snake Eyes has fallen into the clutches These Homo erectus In such a hostile environment, their rules for survival Even humans under certain circumstances. These Homo erectus captured him For the moment, and invite him to share their meal, Do they plan to kill and eat him too? Snake Eyes must remain calm. Those navigating towards the other shore The winds and currents When they wake up that morning, There are no birds in the sky. The Chief doesn't understand. The world disappeared. The giant river covered everything. They drift slowly towards Antarctica. Snake Eyes is alive, they're saved. Snake Eyes has aroused They want to know the secrets and about the powers The Clan Chief still hasn't returned. What if they never come back? Weakened by the lack of water, His beliefs shattered. When faced with nature's wrath, Homo sapiens often doubts Those who walk on water begin with the forest people. The art of jewelry making, and manufacture of tools and clothing. Bonds form between these two peoples, All over the Asian continent, to make up After hundreds of kilometers, the navigators are weak, Land! The other side of the big river! Land has returned from the depths. They navigated for days and days. Thanks to the currents, they finally arrive in a land Perhaps they believe they have reached Sixty thousand years ago, Homo sapiens separated from the rest Australia, the cradle of unique plant The Chief and his people without finding their way back. They'll form the basis a people of extraordinary the family of the Pacific. In the rest of Asia, Homo sapiens crosses China via the Bering Land Bridge. Meanwhile, sapiens enters Europe He adapts to the cold We are at minus 40,000 years. Whipped by glacial winds, Man's only food is meat, but the herds are scarce. Sometimes they disappear altogether, Sapiens is always on the move He lives in teepees made of animal skins They're constantly on the lookout. During these times of scarcity, women don't produce milk so they die, one after the other. The Chief of the Reindeer Clan Not nearly enough The Reindeer Clan is turning The Chief, Akea, listening for movement in the bushes Even the tough and smelly flesh He never misses his mark at this distance He asks her who she is The woman doesn't understand She's got an odd face as if she'd banged herself. This woman is a member They're starving too. She's entranced by the shells She's never seen any before, but he's overwhelmed by his desire He wants to take her. His advances He's Akea, Chief of the Reindeer Clan. At dawn, strange and new animal cries Massive animals covered with long hair saunter down from the North. These are the long noses, There were many before, huge herds, All that meat is within easy reach, The crazy old fool is ready to face them, The shaman will call to give strength to the hunters. Akea will succeed, the shaman knows. The mammoths have been on Earth For these pachyderms, as for the men, These huge beasts to find the 200 kilos of food they need. The shaman stays on the mountaintop, Spirits of our ancestors, Kill these giants for us. Akea knows how to kill reindeer, but he's never dared attack They are nothing in the face Although their hearts beat with fear, The smell of meat makes them salivate However, they're too fast. The long noses are suspicious of men, The way is blocked, it's a dead end. They'll have to retrace their steps Their desperate fear One of them, the youngest, He's afraid to turn back. It's man against beast. Man lost and one of them was killed, Over there, a group of Neanderthal. They've also come to hunt. They have an advantage They know the long noses The Neanderthal woman and forces it to retrace its steps. They've still got one last chance. Their spears are useless but they don't have a choice. The young mammoth charges for the opening, Neanderthal knows He must cut off any escape. Neanderthal is the greatest of hunters, but a mysterious sickness The long nose is cornered. Sapiens and Neanderthal are united These men and women close in on the giant, pushed together by the same instinct, Its movements must be kept to a minimum. This time the Neanderthal woman They've got him, and he's at their mercy. They aim for their vulnerable spots the groin and the anus. The shaman will thank the ancestors Thanks to them, the Reindeer Clan organized big game hunting. This new method will have considerable consequences The mammoth's meat gives the Clan They can go months before their next hunt. For the first time, Free time to think, experiment, Neanderthal and sapiens are assembled of helping one another, The Neanderthal woman wants but Akea already has two companions, and nothing will happen They approve. In the future, they'll live together. The two Clans Gradually, they'll learn The discovery of cooperation laid the groundwork between men of different origins. Soon, new links will be forged. Marriages, alliances, Tonight, Akea wants to take the woman What evil makes her nose bleed? Although the Neanderthal woman they don't let it interfere The shaman isn't pleased He's suspicious of the Neanderthal woman. This woman and man both belong to mankind, Their union will not produce offspring. They're genetically different. The woman's spirit stole the Chief's. The Reindeer Clan must be protected. Akea's spirit must be regained. That night, the fire projects the shadow The shaman sees it as the animal nature He wants the memory so he follows A spirit is there. The spirit of Akea stays on the rock, Forty thousand years ago, the first symbolic representation The birth of art. Soon this invention A few years have passed. In their travels together, most of the Neanderthals have died They're just three, She can't take it any longer, It's the end of her journey. No child came from her belly. The clan can't stop, They must walk South. Time is of the essence, The future of the Reindeer Clan Exhausted from the fever, the woman wants to rest He'll never see these people again. Neanderthal is dying. Little by little, this species cut down by disease, It remains a mystery. Akea doesn't want to hear Perhaps he questions Neanderthal disappears. Big game hunts spread. The rhythm of life More free time, more creations. Homo sapiens sculpts objects. He makes costumes and jewelry It's a veritable cultural explosion. In certain areas, a powerful human creation Art will become a message. We are in France, 20,000 years ago. Homo sapiens have dispersed Sometimes he suffers from isolation. Some Clans don't find They reproduce amongst themselves Inevitably, inbreeding leaving them incapable of reproducing. This puts the survival For years, Atka the sorcerer has tried However, the ancestor There's no response. Has Atka lost his power? What good is a sorcerer Atka feels alone, isolated from the group, Before, the Bison-hunting Clan There were eight hunters, Today, there are only nine, If he doesn't find a solution soon The Chief has just found a winter shelter. Atka's son is agitated, As if he heard voices. The cave is welcoming, spacious, It has the shape of a skull. Fires have been lit here, and there, people slept and ate. Others lived here before them, but where are they now? The child was the first It was his illness. He was always looking to hide himself Atka senses a presence. Who's hiding deep Bears, lions, or humans? The rock answers him. Caves are the best places This one looks promising. He senses something, Signs made by a man's hand. The first rock paintings show streaks, These shapes are a shaman's visions in the first stage They'd been here. Other men's hands had etched this rock. What went on here? Did they wish to leave a message? Atka knows how to take the hidden powers He turns them into colors He'll use them to help He wants to bring him back This slug is magical. It will allow him and travel to the invisible world His sorcerer ancestor Returning to nature long ago, Since then, Atka calls upon it now The slug's magical effect is quick. The sick spirit of the child resists, Atka follows step by step, Outside the trance, Their wish is about to come true. Men and women from another clan. They don't speak the same language. They must welcome Luck is with them. It's their cave, They don't want to share. As his arms fight, the spirit of the bison This woman wears sorcerer's signs. She tuned in immediately to Atka's calls The sorcerer is no longer Atka. His body doesn't belong to him, The sorceress has understood, Before the stranger's eyes, Atka's hand The men from both clans that they stop fighting The image takes on a form they recognize. It reminds them of an emotion They look at one another and go straight to their hearts. Everything's in motion, Is it from the glow of the flames They all see the spirit of the animal, They can even hear it. They are experiencing the inner workings Cave painting becomes a language to understand and accept one another. It will be a universal message and bring them solidarity. Together they prepare They help one another, exchange skills, and find a better way Atka hasn't found his child's lost spirit. Not yet. The two sorcerers Knowledge shared is knowledge gained. They begin to amass an understanding One day, from this vast knowledge, Between minus 30,000 works of art appeared thousands of kilometers from one another. It was as if all the Homo sapiens All over art assembles and allies them with bigger communities. Soon, immense populations Suddenly, 12,000 years ago, It's the beginning Two-thirds of the polar ice caps melt, The continents gradually take on A grandiose era of the life of man but a new one is beginning. Almost everywhere, the weather becomes mild, Sapiens discovers regions so rich in game He builds villages of stones, For many, it's the end of a nomadic life With settling down, [Foreign spoken audio] We're in Mesopotamia, 12,000 years ago. Listen to my story, My mother was young. We didn't know then what we know today. [Foreign spoken audio] Everyone loved Nene. Especially my mother. When he stopped to see her he always brought bird eggs. Life had become easier for men and women. They were beginning to take the time My mother was in love with Nene, They didn't hide their affection and it amused everyone, especially the Chief of the village. [Foreign spoken audio] They'd been together barely two moons. They were happy and carefree. However, that day, Back then, we had to go to pick the wild wheat that grew there. As summer's days grew shorter, we harvested as much grain as possible Nene knew that at this time of year, My mother loved eggs. Ten thousand years ago, She no longer made him suffer, [Foreign spoken audio] She didn't see him leave, -Nene! Then, she remembers her premonition. Nene! Homo sapiens takes pleasure in nature, but if he upsets the balance, The mountain swallowed Nene's body. My mother looks for him in vain. -Nene! Right up until they heard the wolf howl. They feared for Nene's life. Nene! If there were a pack of them, We feared wolves. Nene! -Nene! -Nene! -Nene! A howl, a moaning man. She senses that Nene is close by. It's not Nene, but the strangest thing she's ever seen. A little boy with a she-wolf. The most ferocious carnivore. The wolves had been by our side forever. When our children got lost in the forest, We didn't like wolves, He'd killed more than one. He doesn't have time He hears the moans of the child, too. [Foreign spoken audio] The child is wild, [Foreign spoken audio] My mother tries to comfort him, Enough! The Chief loses his patience They stop looking for Nene, He would have answered them Homo sapiens live here assembled around a common grain loft. The first village. The first houses. My mother took the child with her but he didn't want to sleep. He listened to the mountain. She couldn't believe that the she-wolf His animal mother. We'd never seen this before. My mother had a lot of love to give. She needed someone. I was the wild child. I didn't feel human. I thought I was a wolf. My animal mother had picked me up. In this first village, Each works for the community. Animal skins are now used for receptacles. Hot rocks from the fire Women think about men. There's not a clan anymore, but many families People do favors Polygamy is disappearing. The family revolves around the couple, a man and a woman, their children, It's the birth of today's family. For my mother, this dream was shattered. No trace of Nene. No one had seen or heard him. My mother needed to give and to love. She needed to share her life. [Foreign spoken audio] I didn't want anyone near me. I couldn't stand being touched I rejected everyone's presence but hers, but I wouldn't eat the black meat Little by little, She grew fond of me. I was beginning to take a place The place of a son. One day the she-wolf returned She'd fed me, protected me, Men don't like wolves My wolf mother would never have harmed me, but the men Like all children, [Foreign spoken audio]. She was the first to understand. Maybe because she could sense She was suffering from the absence I now had two mothers She knew how to speak That's how my mother A year passed, I lived among the people. The she-wolf stayed near the village, and little by little, An alliance between man It was the beginning of a big adventure, not just with wolves, Twelve thousand years ago, the first wolf joined However, it would take generations for them to become Thanks to my wolf mother, A skeleton lay in the middle [Foreign spoken audio] It was Nene. [Foreign spoken audio] He disappeared the day my mother found me. She gave me the love she had for him. It was his necklace. My mother knew right away The grains of wheat They'd grown right where they'd fallen. [Foreign spoken audio] The Chief understood that each grain It was so simple, My mother gave me Nene's necklace, and I've worn it my entire life, This necklace comes to you, son of my son. Wear it, and leave it Tell this story to all men It's 10,000 years ago. Thanks to these amazing discoveries, The discovery of agriculture throughout the world over a few centuries. Homo sapiens settles down He lives his life by the rhythm and each year The domestication of the wolf is followed Homo sapiens discovers breeding, which provides In many places all over the world, Man's homage to the divinities. The population increases. Villages are built. Trade expands Soon, large civilizations will appear. Prehistory is finished. No matter the color of our skin the 6 billion human beings all descend from the same family. She lived in the dawn of time and would give birth to thousands right up to us. Their discoveries still enrich our lives. Such is the gift that our parents Thanks to them, our children