Translated by: Souk (@someoneuknow04_ IG) Hey hey everyonee! Last week was really rainy plus I was busy so I couldn't make a video for you guys :(( So for this week, I'll be posting early :) We'll be making a cutiepie of a cake today :)) That'll be the jiggly Castella cake from Taiwan Firstly, I'll sieve 70g of cake flour, you can replace that with all-purpose flour It's been pretty damp and rainy so remember to keep your dry ingredients in a dry place and always sieve them After sieving the flour, throw in a dash of salt. Then abandon that flour bowl and move on with your life :) Some recipes say that this cake requires butter, some says it requires cooking oil. I tested them both out and concluded that butter makes this cake way tastier and better But when the cake cools off or is stored in the fridge, the butter cake isn't as fluffy and soft as the cooking oil cake. However the taste of the butter cake is still better I'll be using 70g of unsalted butter. Remember to cut it into smaller pieces. Of course, you can replace it with cooking oil if you don't have butter Put the butter pieces into a pan and boil the butter. Pour in 80ml of unsweetened milk, then immediately take the pan off the stove Pour in the butter and milk mixture into the flour bowl from earlier and use a whisk to mix it all up Whisk it until the batter is nice and smooth It'll have a pretty thick consistency like this. It can be runnier if the butter wasn't boiling, but that's ok It's the return of the man, the myth, the legend, the vomiting chicken. He'll help me seperate 5 egg yolks from the whites :) Remember not to do a crummy job at seperating the egg yolks and leave the yolks in the egg whites :) If the egg yolk breaks; firstly, shame on you :); second, try to get all the yolk out of the egg whites If there's just a teensy bit then that's fine. Some people think that the egg whites won't fluff up if there's ANY egg yolk in there. But a small ratio won't affect it After seperating the egg yolks, leave the egg whites aside and pour the yolks into the flour mixture from earlier Also add in 1tsp of vanilla extract in the batter Then start mixing it up :) The batter should be smooth like this. If it's not, you're clearly doing something wrong :)) For the next step, I'll be beating the egg whites. Put the egg whites in a large bowl Add 1/4 tsp of lime juice. You can skip this part if you don't have limes or lemons I'll be beating the eggs on medium speed at first. And yes, I'm using an electric mixer for once :) Remember that your electric mixer needs to be clean and there's no grease or other stuff on it When large bubbles appear, pour in your sugar I'm using 90g of sugar, devided into 2 batches. Pour in your sugar slowly and carefully I'll still be beating the eggs on medium speed :) When the bubbles get smaller like this, pour in the rest of the sugar. You can now turn the speed up to high and continue whisking When the eggs are almost done, turn the speed down to low and continue until you reach the desired product This cake requires soft peak, like REALLY soft peak. You can see it in the video, the egg peak immediately falls after being created. It's kind of sad :( After beating the eggs, check to see if your flour and egg yolk mixture is still warm. If the mixture is already cold, place your bowl into a pot of warm water and mix it around until the mixture is warm again. I tried to use cold batter a few times and really big air bubbles started appearing and it ruined the whole cake :( If the flour batter is warm, start mixing in 1/4 of the egg white into the flour batter Use a whisk to mix it, mix it from under to up and then bring it back around This helps the flour batter to have a lighter consistency, and it'll mix easier with the rest of the egg white Next, dump the flour batter into the rest of the egg whites. Continue using your trusty whisk and the same technique from earlier :) When the mixture is smooth, use a spatula and fold the mixture a couple times to make sure there isn't anything left at the bottom of the bowl The final mixture should be pretty fluffy and light, not watery and runny and yucky :) There should be small air bubbles with a few large ones I'm using a 16cm mould. Since this cake will be cooked in a water bath, I recommend using a closed mould If you're using a ring mould like me, you need to wrap the mould with aluminium to prevent water from leaking in. It also helps the mould not oxidize since the cooking process will take quite long For the inside, you can use parchment paper or wax paper to prevent sticking You can also use a baking cloth like me. Baking cloths will prevent wrinkles when the cake is cooked After pouring the batter into the mould, spread out the batter evenly. Then pour in boiling water into the pan and pop it in the oven We'll be baking this cake for an hour in 150degC. Change the temperature accordingly to your oven. My oven was a little too hot so the cake was a little cracked While waiting for the cake to cook, I'll be making some milk tea for myself :)) Just standing close to an oven in this weather feels like I'm in the 9th circle of hell :)) I'm just sweating like crazy :)) And I had to close all the windows in the room to record. Torture &lt;/3 :( I'm just making some simple sugar-free milk tea :) It's literally just tea mixed with some milk :) It's still super good, tho Look at how pretty that issss You don't need to make milk foam like me :)) I was only doing this so it looks pretty for the camera The cake is straight out of the oven and it's super hot and also super jiggly :) Use a sharper knife to cut this cake The cake should puff up a lot. The color of the inside should be all the same and the bottom of the cake shouldn't be denser or chewy When the cake cools down, it'll deflate a bit but not too much. The bottom and surface shouldn't also create a crater You'll hear the crisp sound of air bubbles popping while breaking off a piece of the cake. The cake is super fluffy and soft :) It'll have the sweet smell and taste of butter and vanilla. The slight popping sound of the air bubbles while eating it is also pretty fun, ngl :) The flavor of the cake is fatty and mildy sweet. It's just overall super tasty :)) Eating it paired with a cup of cold milk tea will just be the pinnacle of your whole life :)) Remember to share this video and subscribe for more lovely videos and support me :) Thank you all so much and bai baiiii~