I really tried a lot of things. Do it, don't do it, do it, don't do it, repeat. Finally, I made &quot;Fried rice with meat&quot; and that's how it all started! 20 seconds after exiting Shin-ochanomizu station (B3) The manager's idea of &quot;Fried rice with meat&quot; was a big hit! The restaurant has been featured on many TV programs and there are always lines of people waiting to get in. Shin-ochanomizu &quot;Manryu&quot; is introduced! Menu of popular restaurants Enjoy the video! Fried rice with meat mountain (1,400 yen) Manryu's char siu is made by slow-cooking it every day over time using a sauce that is made by adding more and more ingredients. Preparation of char siu pork This is for use the day after tomorrow. This one is shoulder roast and this one is pork belly.We use different meats for different dishes. For roasted pork noodle 50g per piece Kindness to bring it to the front for easy photography. Q: When did your restaurant open? Since it will start in April 2020. I've been open for less than 4 years. Q: When did the manager start? I've been working here since it opened. We opened the restaurant a week before the state of emergency was declared in coronavirus. It was a really tough time. Q: That was tough, how did you get through it? We really did a lot of things to get customers. Doing delivery and We really made a lot of new menus and stopped making them, and then made them and stopped making them, over and over again. The coronavirus period was really tough, and we were struggling to keep my business somehow. Finally we made &quot;Nikutama Fried Rice&quot; That's where, you know, we finally started to benefit from the restaurant. Started doing &quot;Nikutama Fried Rice&quot; (fried rice with meat).&quot; It sold very well and I'm really happy. Q: Who came up with this menu? It was my idea! The menu he came up with helped the restaurant grow. Chashu pork for chashu egg The chashu egg comes in one type of pork belly and one type of pork shoulder. Our second most popular menu item! 150g for 2 pieces Preparation of Shumai(steamed meat dumpling) Start by grinding the meat. shiyu-mainihaJian ro-sutoTun baramoRu tsuteiru Shumai also contains shoulder loin and pork belly Eggs are mostly used for Nikutama fried rice. Mixing the eggs is also quite a task I cut it, but actually mix it for a longer time. Basically used for fried rice Egg preparation work continues! Seasoned roasted pork on Fried Rice with Roasted Pork Slowly simmer for a long time. Keep it clean with plastic wrap. The course meal looks good! Measure the quantity exactly Where to make Fried Rice Start steaming shumai Gyoza preparation The restaurant has 6 seats at the counter and 20 seats at tables. Preparation of fried chicken You can actually make reservations even though it's a popular restaurant. Semi-private seating for 4 This restaurant is featured in the comic book. Wonton preparation Wrap the towel tightly Shake this wok all day long to make fried rice. Lines form even before the restaurant opens at 11:00 a.m. Customers keep coming in. The restaurant becomes busy all at once. Shumai and omelette are served on top. Nikutama Fried rice (900 yen) Chanler set meal (1,000 yen) Nikutama Fried rice is always on order. That's why he's always making fried rice. They can make up to 5 servings at a time at the same time. Customers never stop coming. The restaurant is full The line outside is unending. Customers line up to enjoy the delicious food. Nikutama Fried rice is the most popular dish. +More meat for 200 yen Nikutama Fried rice (add more meat/1,100 yen) Sprinkle with green onions for a bright appearance Nikutama Fried rice with leeks (1,000 yen) Manryu roasted pork noodles (950 yen) Grill and brown well. Two types of roasted pork (shoulder loin and pork belly) Roasted pork egg set meal (900 yen) Manryu Fried Rice with Roasted Pork (900 yen) Some people add rice to their fried rice because of the large amount of meat. Fried rice with lettuce (800 yen) Company employees, students, etc. line up even after noon. The key is to grill it well here. Looks delicious! Burn this well. Nikutama Fried rice (900 yen) Looks delicious! Which one should I start with? Fried rice, shumai, pork belly, eggs and all my favorite things. Volume! Strong taste! Every dish can be a main course. Pork belly with a delicious sweet and spicy sauce. A combination that goes great with fried rice. Nikutama Fried rice with leeks (1,000 yen) The inclusion of green onions makes it a refreshing meal. Good texture too. Everything on the menu was delicious, I'll come back for more!