Reporter: Zach can't stop writing lyrics, behind with only months to live. His song [&quot;Clouds&quot;] Zach: Like every teenager out there feels invincible and they'll never admit it and it's the kind of invincible like &quot;I'll see I was ready for college pretty much and I turns out sometimes you can't do that. years old and I have osteosarcoma. I've been have a lot of work to do. you don't have to find out you're Zach: You know most people live kind of in the middle between dream come true and you're live. I'm living on two extreme ends so you and you have Laura: Zach has always been This basketball game I players had kind of a funny run and he goes all these things and I thought he's just always he's taught all of us that's how it's done. to the fact that things are okay when you in the world. there with him feel better. He's got, I don't about him. else smile because you put it there. That's It's that you can help people. Zach: I like the structure of our family with two guys, two girls for the kids and mom and Laura: Grace has always been his baby. All we need is to be there like in the same us! Thinking about my life about Zach, it's get sick to my stomach when I think about Laura: Zach had been going through the eighth for a run and he came back from the run and in for an MRI and at this point still I'm Zach: They went in and It was osteosarcoma. And it was so Grace: I was upstairs in the kitchen. And And I just said I got to live life like Zach: My mom walked in on me once when I was to associate my bed with being sick. He had his routine CT scan of his chest and Laura: She told us six months to a year. Like it didn't make any sense to me. that would me they'd have to take his left even be able to sit up. That's when we got about quality of life. place in the world, but you just do not feel there because you felt totally disconnected. hospital all the time, I want to be out with Rob: In the house like this where we have six people and four kids part of the time sitting there. We could be watching movies, Laura: Zach likes to dream big so he kind and that was one thing he would do in the Zach: I would sort through the cards and be has the highest performance. Nissan GTR is Laura: So we have a little tiny surprise for you. Zach: I don't like surprises. Laura: Oh I think you're going to like this Zach: Holy crap! Are you serious? Grace: You're driving me places! impressive huh? when Zach lights up, it makes everyone happy! and not being able to breathe but in a really Rob: It wasn't the car, it was the experience from driving it and the joy I received from Zach: Being able to experience these things, in your basement and wait or you can get out Laura: When we found the cancer in his pelvis, writing some letters. without having to burden everyone else. was a lot of paper laying around with different and I read it and it was Clouds! Laura: Sammy and Zach have been dear friends for many many years. They are songwriters each other. something and it has become a part of us. it with again and that's going to be really Zach: I find that with my situation it is I have closure and she won't have closure. Sammy: There are very very very few people Zach: My closure is being able to get my feelings into these songs, so they could have something Laura: For me it's Zach's way of saying &quot;I'm okay.&quot; it's there because I'm going to need it later. how much eh cares for us. me, &quot;For My Grace&quot; so I'll keep that always Grace: I love you! like the first time ever! Zach: Pretty much. Yeah she's pretty cool! Zach: I think with my diagnosis, we've become a better and stronger family. We all love you go through stuff like that you go through Sam: You have to stick together as a family, been there since Zach was first diagnosed. and we have to make it through as a family Alli: How will I remember my brother. Happy, with his funny little walk. That's as simple Zach: My friends, I don't know if they've that if they just treat me the same everything Friend 1: He's someone you can trust is going Friend 2: He's kind of just like a light in really a bad day if I'm just complaining about Friend 1: He will always live on in my life. had, they are so ingrained in who I am as Laura: Amy, she's a smart girl. We knew he she knew that. She sat down with her mom and would you date him if he didn't have cancer through some hard times. a picnic just in a park somewhere. day. walks in and she's pretty quiet and she looks be that bad I mean come on. And she goes, &quot;Oh, okay.&quot; the first time it was real that he had cancer. Zach: It was like cool can I at least go to and they were like no we need to do this now. cared about was getting to that date. the picnic because who doesn't like a good Amy: Good morning! Zach: Where are we going? Zach: I don't know where we're going! Zach: I almost burst into tears just because pizza which pretty much defines our relationship Amy: We know what we both would want in our the same amount. Well we talked about getting that a lot when we have bad days, so like and plan it all out. haven't decided yet. But I kind of want four then because that's what we had in our family, those things that, it's like your ultimate it or most people think &quot;I don't know if it Amy: I think the moment I'm most scared about is leaving the hospital after he's gone and Zach: I will actually love her to death, That's the thing it's like why not us part and I'm dying so we better get on I do love her to death, and I will, forever! Justin: Okay Sobiech family, So I'm Justin and I'm a director about your amazing family member and I came who had a cool YouTube video and was inspiring, year old that would change my life. So when to make a music video for you, which we just able to do was reach out to a few people and I just wanted to do something for you because was something very special. I just want you you're dying, it's really because of the way Amy: You can just tell that they all love was amazing to see. it and none of us could! Zach: The most bizarre thing I think I've ever seen, craziest feeling in the world! end, it made me cry. Zach: Aw Grace! Grace you've been my best friend for fourteen years. We've done so much but you have to keep being strong. You got and take them to the championship. anyone could ever ask for. You've given me and I think it is, it's important you know think we say it too much, Zach: Alli, squeeze from the back of the toothpaste you've always kept me strong in my faith and Zach: Mom and Dad, best parents anyone could kids and raise them like you raised me because parents anyone could ever ask for. I love Zach: Life is really just beautiful moments, one right after the other. All of these experiences me a little bit more closure on everything Amy: He's shown me that it's not all about the grades you get or how cool you are in happy and no matter when you're going to go, Zach: It's really simple actually, it's just to learn with time, maybe you have to learn it you're going to make the world a better Laura: I think that's actually one of the out of denial and so in doing that, things means more, beauty is more beautiful, he's a beautiful person Zach: Death is just another thing on the agenda kind of. Yeah it's scary but the only reason next or if there is a next, so it's kind of choose to be freaking out in the dark and just relax and fall asleep and just be happy Zach: I want to be remembered as a kid who