The German Messerschmitt me 262, Sleek, fast fighter technology. For the Allies the appearance deal of anxiety and consternation. Nothing The top Allied fighter at the end of the war of 446 miles an hour. The Messerschmitt 262 which of 568 miles an hour. An advantage of almost this performance which is a Quantum jump can finish combat as it wishes. It was a very formidable world's first jet fighter it was in fact the kill credited to a jet fighter goes to the August 4th 1944 flying officer Dixie Dean V1 flying bomb sending it crashing into the While the V1 was a pilotless aircraft it would versus Jet encounter. It was a telling indictment. the Germans found themselves with just one only a handful were in service. But there was before the Me-262. The Heinkel He-280. Designed miles per hour. At this late stage of the war in September of 1940 it was two years ahead Was it simply indifference on the Luftwaffe's by political interference, incompetence or we must first look at the state of military the 1930s. Since the end of the first World War aircraft beginning of the 1930s new engine designs monocoque airplane revolutionized aircraft Speed altitude and range records were smashed. new designs and as Europe crept toward War to rise. With little time or money left for the development work focused on the evolution of the piston of a jet engine the thing. Technically unfathomable were those whose pipe dreams would become RAF applied for a patent for his jet engine. and his secret jet engine patent in the University of Gottingen was instrumental of leading German aircraft manufacturer Ernst Heinkel. to Heinkel whom he knew and he said you know I think has a tremendous future to it. He he engine it draws air in the intake compresses with with gasoline. And it turns the turbine comes out the half end of it. As long as you I have a man here who who wrote a thesis about It'd please me very much if you if you would his ideas and his applications for future inventor created a line of experimental centrifugal with ever more thrust. The entire program was utmost secrecy. The German air Ministry was was also unaware that BMW was working on their unit more complicated than the centrifugal It was also being developed with the full axial flow designs would power Germany's fledgling before the war the Germans had become aware Has been pioneered by Frank Whittle and at of centrifugal flow. Which is a the simplest the most reliable. At that stage certainly turn quite rapidly after their first um if flow type. Which really offers many advantages on axial flow engines. And within the limitations very successful in this. The only problem was therefore difficult to produce time-consuming strategic materials to contain heat stresses Work on a suitable test airframe for Heinkel's at the same time. By August 1939 both engine no masterpiece. The short fuselage and stubby of speed. On August 27th test pilot Eric Warsitz the tiny aircraft. Watched by Ernst Heinkel began to roll. The takeoff run was short climbing once and came in for a perfect landing. Total made. Wasting no time Heinkel telephone Ernst supply at the RLM the Reich's air Ministry. enthusiastic. The world's first jet would have into war. Long before 1939 the name Heinkel had become had gained a worldwide reputation despite Aviation by the Versailles Treaty of 1919. a number of new military types for countries in 1933 and the expansion of the new luftwaffe Orders for Fighters and bombers began to pour He-111 bomber were very good they lacked what about high-speed flight. Well heinkle he loved in into aircraft that were they were Fighters that sort of stuff like the Focke-Wulfe 190 was a man consumed by speed. The faster an the first flight of the He-178 he created in 1939. Unfortunately for Heinkel official all work on the project seized. Udet, Goring and were propeller people. They believed and Alternate Engine Systems. They said no And and so Heinkel was looked upon as some was doing on jet engines they they felt was never got any real support from him from the to power a new requirement for an ultra modern response was the He-112 powered by a 695 horsepower was the Messerschmitt Bf-109 also powered very close while the Bf-109 was slightly faster Superior field performance. Amid General surprise awarded the new contract. The Heinkel 112 was Reichlein test pilots endorsed that view entirely. point of view, Heinkel's 112 was number It also marked the beginning of a new and and the German air Ministry. Undeterred Heinkel the lack of enthusiasm from Ernst Udet and air Ministry. Heinkel pressed on with his privately time the Messerschmitt design Bureau completed air Ministry. Submitted on June 7 1939 the a contract for three airframes was awarded Simultaneously and in the face of official contract. Even before the official contract on the first He-280 prototype. The He-280 was the jet propulsion the He-280 was equipped tricycle landing gear. Prior to its first conducted. Fitted with dummy engine Nacelles He-111 and subjected to a number of gliding was ready for its first flight. With just enough air after a single low altitude low speed was the world's first jet fighter, but the a state-of-the-art machine which no one developing their jet technology, the allies in England Frank Whittle like Ernst Heinkel The new Jets were not a high priority. Frank's 3rd 1940 the British Air Ministry issued Britain's was selected to meet specification E.28/39. Design Frank Whittle and Gloster aircraft. The The engine mounted behind the cockpit and like the He-280. Air for the engine was drawn on each side of the cockpit. Like the Heinkel world's first technology demonstrator aircraft. W1 centrifugal jet engine. Which developed aircraft by any standard two examples were off from Cranwell Airfield at 7:45 PM the Thomas of Whittle's Engine pushed the air Ministry the first E.28/39 took shape. Specification F-940. 1940. Because the new jet engine didn't have have to be a twin engine design. the F-940 was Following accepted aircraft practices it was received an order for 12 Gloster Whittle would become the first Gloster Meteors. was not proceeding smoothly. When the contract to Messerschmitt that BMW had been unduly was still unreliable without sufficient power. In order to accommodate the new larger engine original airframe. The new aircraft would be nacelles just like the He-280. While BMW struggled company was working on their own turbojet. case the BMW 003 failed on November 1940 the Major problems were revealed and just as the first Me-262 V1 was fitted with a nose-mounted Willie Messerschmitt was hoping for. On April To impress his guests Heinkel arranged for a the He-280. During the mock combat the He-280 completed three. Finally, Ernst Udet showed some 77 more than the Fw-190. Impressed the German 13 He-280A pre-production aircraft. Unfortunately, was still out of reach. Heinkel now found himself and incompetent leadership. To understand this beginning of the new Luftwaffe. After Hitler leader of the new Luftwaffe. A World War one a number of his ex-quadron mates titles in of the first. Many had no experience in aircraft By 1941 German aircraft manufacturing was aircraft production had stalled. For the first 800 aircraft a month. It wasn't until after Russia did the German High command take action. to affect any real change. In November 1941 Udet's successor was Erhard Milch. Milch was the military expertise necessary for the job. production, he was unimaginative and a conservative July 18 1942 the first Me-262 was ready for is a taildragger. Because of the nose's high a problematic takeoff run it takes to the The Messerschmitt 262 was first tested with a taildragger. It had the thing up at level was for the pilot to come up level and then they could take off Across the Atlantic America finally enters P-59A the date is October 1st 1942.By the in the picture. In June the He-280 V2 prototype each rated at 1852 pounds of thrust. Now for are equipped with the same type of engine. speed of 491 miles an hour being reached. A now be made. Flight testing of the fourth Me-262 plants it enjoyed a marked performance advantage He-280 the Me-262 looked faster. Its shark-like menacing presence. Even with this apparent go. For Heinkel and Messerschmitt the road serious setbacks. Their reputations now in twin-engine fighter was a complete failure. with the disastrous He-177 heavy bomber was By the summer of 1942 Germany was still victorious. After once again on the offensive. In North Africa, Rommel leading the way. From a military perspective it was now fighting on three fronts. Losses Stalingrad began with much promise. It was Germans were losing. On November 1st Allied Operation Torch begins. Allied troops invade Landing in Morocco and Algeria. Rommels fabled sides. November 19th Soviet forces launch operation and annihilate all German forces. The Soviet offensive is a spectacular success is all but over. The German sixth Army surrenders- In May the battle for Tunisia is over. German troops taken prisoner. These military losses now on the defensive. For the Luftwaffe January operational strength had sunk to some 4,000 more modern types. Aircraft like the He-280 on its last accumulated reserves. Contingency would be catastrophic. The German High command had resolutely declined the possibility of waging a defensive war. From Hitler on down in Stalingrad and North Africa put a severe time serious cracks began to show. But it wasn't that hobbled the once mighty Luftwaffe. The would be short lent to short-term planning. was a strategic miscalculation and one that Heinkel's He-280 and Messerschmitt's Me-262. even though he had Ernst Udet as air Ministry they wanted a flying machine support like in Poland and elsewhere. For Heinkel fortunes began to change many still clung second half of 1942. Erhard Milch was one of aircraft production but at a cost. To avoid any new types to the assembly lines. Doing to fall. As a result most of the pre-war designs of the war. Unfortunately for Heinkel and Messerschmitt its effect in the one field where Germany In September 1942 both Erhard Milch and the for series production of the Me-262 would commitments production of the He-280 was unrealistic in early 1943 that all changed. powered by two Jumo 004 engines took flight. as a fighter bomber. In a complete amount face began negotiations for the manufacture of finally see mass production and enter service Ironically the 262 V4 prototype powered by jet bomber enjoyed a marked performance advantage to be faster with a better rate of climb and the end the 262 was the superior fighter. In Heinkel ending the 280 project. In milche's today no longer allows us to run two designs In a conference shortly after Heinkel observed sense of unease about the jet and the talk victory over Heinkel would prove a pyrrhic Meanwhile in Britain the Gloster Meteor the Germans British officialdom in Industry Official confidence was shaken when the impellers at high speed. This was eventually remedied Who in 1941 built their own jet engines based Rolls-Royce was called upon to take over development development of the Me-262 continued. Compared inefficient and veiled in secrecy even from Galland general of the Luftwaffe fighter arm Not until May 22nd 1943 did he fly the 4262 recommended production of the Bf-109 be halted enthusiasm swept away any remaining hesitancy ordered the 262 into series production. But in the program not see the value of the 262 Why was it kept secret from Galland? And why as to what might have been if just two years Finally Messerschmitt had what he wanted but rejected out of hand any mass production of with a new jet until I have decided on its fuhrer was increasingly obsessed with a revenge was far more important than providing his the Reich. This would lead directly to Germany's bomb. Powered by a pulse jet engine the V-1 first jet-powered aircraft to see combat in of London began. To help counter the threat meteor Mark 1. compared to the He-280 and it was a combat ready machine powered by centrifugal offered more punch, Frank Whittle the genius on the reliability of centrifugal design. The the centrifugal, but much more efficient. Ideally, one has to put oneself back a bit in time of jet development. And that was not very far I talked to him, he knew all about axial flow. Frank, Into centrifugal? And he said because in for reliability and simplicity. in November 1943 Hitler saw the Me262 for asking why after years of demanding a fast wanted to know if the jet aircraft could carry For Hitler the matter was settled. The Me-262 would disobeyed Hitler and continued to develop when Hitler found out he flew into an incandescent 262s to be built as bombers. It was a major an already troubled program. One of the biggest the Jumo 004 engine into a reliable power design. In theory it offered more power over used by the British. In practice however the shortage of strategic materials like Chrome turbine blades at high temperatures. The Jumo high altitude fuel flow problems and flameouts The Jumo 004 was a technical and operational short lifespan it was unreliable. Prone to Achilles heel, one allied pilots would freestyle. slow to accelerate to throttle movement and you flaming the motor. Secondly, the designers fast airplanes and no air brakes were fitted. for landing. You need some drag if you're going associated with a 262 you had to do a long heel. Because the eighth USAAF Mustangs realized in that phase of the operation. By July 1944 a losing battle. Unable to cope with the swarms it was quickly being destroyed. While the Me-262 service were meager at best and would remain B-17 shot down didn't occur until August 15th. shutout since the rejection of the He-280 the jet fold. Concerned with the slow production a so-called rush job a single-engine jet fighter build. For Heinkel it was a question of pride. the challenge. Heinkel quickly realized that to be mounted just above the fuselage. Similar been issued the He-162 mock-up was ready. On for mass production. Captain Eric Brown recalls test flight. He was like a school boy jumping piercing questions about the handling of we'd had with it. I found him with a very acute person. By late 1944 the German High command denial. Galland said that the He-162 was unrealistic. and expected to be flown by inexperienced late stage of the war Heinkel was working labor 100 aircraft were produced in February to the new type. In the final weeks of the action. Combat claims were made but never confirmed. fighter. On May 5th Germany surrendered. It was a crushing late in the war had no impact on the outcome. produced sooner history would have been different. wouldn't have made a dramatic difference. For early groundbreaking developments were essentially first jet fighter the answer is many. The He-280 and Industrial chaos. After 1936 Nazi management Udet's technical office, Goring, the general jockeyed with one another for control of the policy towards aircraft production, confusion blame for a lot of the failings of the Luftwaffe. getting aircraft into production. And to a his problem.Udet was a an extroverted magnificent been in Goring's Squadron World War I. Ernst Udet had no interest in politics and Goring approached him as an old Squadron mate and and your experience. Come in and be the head of this and was completely out of his depths. to build everything from trainers to strategic to move them towards any specialization was objectives were never issued. Programs were waste in time, scale, and materials. Overall was uncoordinated, inefficient, plagued by ignorance operational in 1942 its overall effectiveness the Jumo 004 power plant. Unreliable with a for combat operations. Serviceability rates Me-262. Finding good Pilots would have been pilots could barely keep Pace with attrition. 1943 the Luftwaffe was a dying force with jet fighter Heinkel's He-280 was a Marvel for Heinkel, those in power saw little use to produce Jets almost certainly doomed what an effective jet fighter Force. As the Allies the incredible technology left behind, they recognized the potential of jet power too Now I was puzzled about this frankly. What had it was overrun too quickly for them to have down it was a sense of pride of what they wanted us to see it.