If you're looking ideas to sell in your relatively high in demand but where I'll be sharing with you my top ten trending products I did the research for you so you don't have to. Hi, my name is Mei and I help makers, artists and designers products online. Now, I call these trending research they're evergreen trending as in So if you choose to sell them, be popular just for this year, Because in my research, have held a steady demand from customers over the tells me that these are products looking for. I don't want to invest all of this time into starting a business going to sell for a few months and then I have to And if you agree with that philosophy, because that's what I'm all about. And of course, I'm going to save the best for last, The first thing is a category of products, Now, I'll get more specific as to what kinds, but personalized But there are so many products you can make now that it does So the first trending product in the home decor. And I'm not just talking about just art. I am seeing people starting to selling items like nightlights, And they're all personalized. I love this idea because not everyone buys art in their home. But it is fun and different to offer 3D home decor that you can put on the table for example. And they make for highly giftable items. Next up, we have personalized cutting boards and charcuterie boards. These make for amazing and beautiful gifts that look like And they're great for a variety of special occasions housewarming gifts, So there are plenty of reasons to buy them, In the same vein, or cases. I know this is really specific, guitar players there are out there? A lot. And these make really fun and you can really get creative I see that many are shaped like the body of a guitar. Or you can go for something simpler, So I think there's a lot of room new designs here yet, while staying within a need that we already know And then we have custom Now, I know I probably But that's just because people are always buying So to get more specific, of course personalized family always a best seller. But if you don't want to do then I'm seeing there's a lot more room portrait space, as well as the home portrait space. And here's an easy tip if you're finding yourself in a highly competitive Do some research on what already exists in the market. And then give your own product a slightly different twist or your own unique spin to it. That way You're going off data and you're also going to stand out your version of a custom portrait is going to be different If you like that plan, Next up, still in the personalized space, we have name puzzles. These are usually made out of wood learning toys for babies. There's a wooden base with a custom shapes like animal faces They're colorful and fun industry with not as much competition However, since you are selling a baby product, do research on using materials that are safe for them, and read up on Now, if you don't want products, then consider these items. Product number six are granny square style You could turn them into sweaters, tote bags, blankets, even coasters. I am seeing that this style into trend especially with the cottagecore trend. Even Drew Barrymore is a fan celebrities are really good at setting or reinforcing trends. When celebrities buy a certain item, tons of other people Next, we have minimalist gold jewelry. These are simple, dainty designs that work well for everyday wear, date night. The point is, they're so understated and therefore very versatile. These always sell well and people will never stop buying jewelry either for themselves &quot;I have too much The thing is, But don't let that stop you. As long as you have a solid marketing plan and a way to stand out like we talked about earlier, it would be so easy Next, we have funny cards. This is such a fun space to be in, if you are known for being and you're always cracking jokes. I think you certainly have to be pretty with pop culture and current media, I personally wouldn't do very well at. But if this comes easy for you, definitely consider Greeting cards are a much lower things that we've talked about, consider diversifying your Selling wholesale to gift stores I know a lot of greeting card designers like to venture into. And perhaps expand your product line so you're not just selling cards, but also art or maybe interactive scratch cards where you know, off latex that once you scratch it off, Lots of fun things you can do here Next up, if you are a botanist, horticulturist, a plant lover, you might want to consider starter plants or even seeds. I have personally bought plants online before because you just get so many more options, it's so much easier than going out to shop for and it's often a lot cheaper as well, Plus, what I love about this right now, so it should be relatively easy and see sales coming in quickly. You just have to figure out if you go that route. Otherwise, seeds are pretty light and easy to ship. And then we have tumblers. Oh my God. There is so much you can do with this in terms of design. I have seen so many kinds, from personalized birth flowers to studded designs And there are surprisingly a large variety of tumblers to print on as well, like ones with a handle, and they can come in a lot of fun colors. And of course, the best thing about this is it print on demand, which means you never have to worry fulfillment of these products. You just work on the design and the rest is taken care of for you by the printer. So it's super easy to get started with for what you could make. Printers like Printful, Printify that can print on tumblers. And of course, if you want to look into it. Now you have your product idea, you need to figure out how to set up store so you can make sales, right? Well, I have for a limited time only a free workshop that I made just for you, where I will show you how to do all of that. I'll walk you through online store and how to do it in just 12 short weeks. on are sustainable. They don't take a lot of time to do so you can do it So if you're interested in that, link in the description So go watch that now before