North Korea, one of the most enigmatic Some claim that it is one and that even represents a But how true is Since I can remember all my about that country in In which nuclear weapons and constantly engages in threats of war with North Korea, is that mysterious place where Dennis Rodman, as guest of honor But it is also the place an American tourist named Otto Warmbier and forced labor allegedly for stealing during his trip as a I was used Please! Act to save me! Please, save my life! And after a series of negotiations he was released but in a coma It is said that because of the torture North Korea is a country that shares a border but with a social that it seems that we are talking about In North Korea many and for many of us because throughout its history it has remained And that's why as a travel lover and friends and family, I made and get to know it with my own eyes. My name is Alex Tienda, I am Travel to share with you 14 years ago, in 2006, being one of the first I have been fortunate to know spectacular But among so many destinations there is one in particular, but because of fears or difficulties Until today I made the decision to travel to one and get to where no other Dear friends... Minimarkets, I am currently outside It's very cold, But hey, I started recording I am very excited! In a few more moments, I will meet the group of tourists Traveling to North an odyssey that begins long before setting And if you didn't miss you will surely remember that It had been almost 70 hours since From there I took a flight to Mexico City, left alone with a debit I took another flight from And after a two-hour stopover another to the city of Upon arriving in China upon discovering that my And it didn't come I spent the whole day and in the end they told me that my suitcase But I had to continue with because the next day, My train was leaving from So I had to forget about my suitcase The big problem is that all my and now I had to endure Bejing's cold But what is that one of the rules for visiting it is dress with pants And if I was sure is that I did not want to risk So hours before taking I ran to a mall to buy spending a portion of and then I ran back to the station and so continue with this odyssey but it still had If you want to visit North Korea, you have to go with And on this occasion I will show you the whole and the weirdest But above all we will learn We will learn a lot We will know a place that is one of the We will leave as in two hours It is a journey of it is a whole day to reach And for now we are going to look for something I will give you an explanation, which is the agency with which Your meeting point is going to be here, at the And on the right side you will have We will enter here and on the right, That's where we are We have to go through Well, two security filters You almost always have to go through this airports, train stations. So, they will Now, here is our You are going Entering the station And here it is... This is the place where you buy tickets in this case the tour guide that will he just need our passports, Well, right now it will We leave I don't know how much we are going But I said, &quot;Hey, can I have time to buy I don't bring He told me So, we are probably going to do something very As I said, traveling to and very different from traveling to First of all, the only way we as is through a tour agency, Since there are only about 10 agencies to take tourists to their territory In addition to having to do it in a by an agency guide and two Korean So if you were thinking of visiting it Forget about it! For my trip I did a whole investigation A UK company that specializes in this around 30 countries and among But the most interesting is that the trips they organize such as this which includes and six-night lodging, Now we have to pass Every time you go into a it seems that you are and this is the entrance We have to go through they already gave us our And right now, I got lost, Woao! The central building It's huge! Woao! The journey and this already feels like a very We are in the waiting Here is our ticket, and says we What I understood, Then, I will go There is a person who will Nothing sexual... And right now they are giving We will be approximately that will give us to go buy some And I recommend you.. Well, in your case, if you are Well, I really But in my case I am very So, it costs me a lot of work sometimes in places And here is the last place where as well as sweets or things that Well, you have to take advantage As I had already told you, I had to go buy clothes But I also had to buy razor blade, deodorant, since there are no stores in North Korea where So these stores at the train to find these basic But almost all stores and unfortunately that deodorant is not such an And among everything I was looking for and lots of chocolate Okay, we already packed some portions, I bring about 10 and some Oreo cookies We are going to buy a little fruit And so, here, I tell you... It is the last place you can because once you get on Well, it's like very much from I mean, if you like Chinese You never know So, it's always better to bring It was close to 5:00 p.m. and I moved from the waiting to the platforms where with a lot of wagons waiting This is surreal, it's... A lot of emotion. A lot of nerve. A very And logically it was because despite having already this time I was going to And at the time of delivering my ticket emotion and nerves were Friends, we are already in the wagon where we are That is like the last point Look, I'm going to show you, here we have and you have three beds, three I'm going to sleep in the middle bed, and we are going to have a person And if you look, it's like a wagon full So obviously we Surely that can make So, in those cases I recommend you and always have locks What I'm going to do is that which is where I have all I'm going to sleep with that And this, which is pure clothes, Right now, in about 20 It's great because and I'm going to Well, it's night, but tomorrow I'll be Friends, the train movement We are already starting I have many I am excited, I am somewhat It's complicated in my case because but there they don't allow they don't allow you to record many So, I go with that nerve to and see how much I am very excited, really. It was 5:30 p.m., and our train to Dandong, China, was already leaving Beijing, and from and endless residential buildings that that lives in the capital of one of the But I also wanted to show you So I set out to explore I'm going to show you Look... It is not the bathroom It is a bathroom, which I had already So, let's pee... I went in to show But hey, right now I just wanted to We have a mirror. We have here a sink And this Friends, right now we are leaving It's so cold! It's that there's no heating here, that's why the outside air The wagons do have heating, obviously, And now we are going Look, all people We are going to look I think, there must be a restaurant wagon, there is always a wagon where And, well, here we see people I am following This guy you see here in front is He also contacted the tour This wagon is like a It has carpet, We arrived! This is the Friends, I tell you, Right now it's 7:00 p.m., 6:50 p.m., we left about And we will travel Dandong is the city that between China and North Korea, We will get there So, practically, this is a train that And we have our We have been here since we are close to completing And now, then, add these 12 hours, We will arrive at 7:00 a.m., heading to Pyongyang, And we will be arriving there So, another 9 And finally we will be At approximately 7:00 p.m., I accommodated my things and started watching taking advantage of the fact that in And after a couple of hours like I prepared to sleep because the next morning very early, Friends, It's already 6:15 a.m., It is already dawn and they just turned In about an hour we will our destination, and we will take now straight to You rest a lot, the beds... At night at about 10:00 p.m., between So, you have We will go to the bathroom, Already by day our approach to Dandong At this time of the year because it was and sometimes mountains or some small cities that But nothing spectacular. In these last two most passengers take have breakfast or And I also used to work on my and organizing files from It was 8:00 a.m., and suddenly we begin to see more and which means that we were already before entering It's cold, We are in Dandong, This city is the border It is our last point in China, In three hours we left. Good morning, joy. We are here already walking to where are we going Brooklyn is one of the guides that will At this time we are already joining Here comes my Good Morning! -Yes! Like a baby! You can sleep comfortably And we arrived... Brooklyn? Again, this is like entering We are right now at the ticket office, We have to deliver And approximately we will Already our guide Brooklyn, explained there's a Kentucky So, it's going to be the last or western things before We have approximately right now I have to leave the train station There was in Kentucky Fried And obviously Hey! I'm looking for a store to Hello good day. Because I have not And I don't have He's worried, I'm well. Is hot. The sun is hot. I like your coat... Regards! He is grabbing No, it's fine, People are very impressed Greetings. Well, we didn't understand anything, So, why do I say no? No, it's not true. I love that people... Two things I've noticed One, I think they are not and it seems weird because there are many But it is very impressive I get anywhere and everyone I don't know if it's or because I bring shorts, and everyone is dying of cold But well... Time passed and my next so I had only a few minutes to try Ah! Ok... Yes to comb, I think we are not No, it's like.. Like gel, Okay, well, I think so. Thank you! What else do i need? Deodorant, I don't know why I talk to her It seems we already No, that is a razor blade. No thanks. This, and wait for me, Okay, she look at me like, But we are I mean, we are achieving what we want which They are laughing at me, I am looking for Well, we bring some cucumber fries I believe that with this Ah! I'm missing 23... It's a camera. Hi! Yes, it is a camera. Thank you. Thanks friend, Ready. Let's go to the station, And although I failed which meant that I would be I found a hair spray, so at least Friends, we already got it's a paper, We have to go pick up our bag because The train ticket So, now let's all go and with that we all They all see me. Everyone looks at me All the ladies point me out. Once our Lupine Travel guide he explained to us what our wagon And now we had to go Okay, friends, we are about to go through and cross the bridge, You will need three things, your North Korea That this is like practically Your tour operator is going to give you It's like a country And you can get it here. Here they are going to give it to you and You bring pants. The lady is telling me that I bring But it makes Yes, I bring shorts. We are strong. That do I have Thank you! The lady says that Thank you so much Mrs. We have already right now we are about to board We are in wagon 16. Well, here we are Right now we are going to cross that bridge That bridge crosses the river that While we are crossing but once we cross the bridge I Well, there we are entering North And after that, North Korean immigration If they find material that I was I can get in And after migration from North Korea, The capital Okay, I got bunk 6, Friends, we are already I am already in my bunk, downstairs there are Right as soon as we there are people who right now just get on and get off at the first destination We are going to go to Pyongyang We are There is our friend There is a problem, he just realized that his passport was or he can't find his So obviously this is a problem, because if he I can't imagine the stress And to add more stress Suddenly the train I had no idea how far the border But it didn't take 30 seconds when I noticed that we were already on and it is precisely this river that divides So the stunning view it allowed us to see the contrast that On the one hand Dandong, China. A very populated city and a life to some extent But on the other side was With a cold, desolate and mysterious Especially because of the extensive list of rules and also the fear of knowing that since across the river and throughout North Korea let alone the Internet, therefore, and before entering North Korea, I used to communicate with my wife, that I was officially And while, with the other hand, I tried to record to share it with all But always since they had warned me that it once we crossed And above all, it was strictly forbidden to record any Well, we are already We can't record Well, folks... We are on the side I was now publishing to keep you up to date. And it's interesting... I will explain As I was saying, from the moment we crossed And to be more exact that works as a military Our stop here would last between And during this time we while the military got to check passports, and our entry The big problem is that one of our and he was almost certain that the migration At this time and among I could feel the fear and stress that could bother the authorities But at the same time I took a chance to share with you the tension of Okay, friends... Officially we are We just crossed the river that At this moment we are in A soldier came to check us At this moment I turned off the camera so as not Friends, He just found Woao! He could not find the visa... we were already here on Officers came to ask And the tour guide explained that he didn't because they were speaking in They were as arguing. And then, obviously the guide trying But not here. Maybe he was going to have to stay here, Fortunately he found it, Well, ready... I mean, I imagine After asking us they ordered all passengers to get off for a thorough Logically, in this part it was But then I explain Okay, friends... from the side of where there is migration, We have been here for And obviously I can't take video of But I am trying to do as mental that I could turn on my camera, Basically what we did was, and all the people who were who were in work activities When they all went down, the officers Well, quite strict. And they went up to ask us for There was a mishap there with the he couldn't find his visa. he found his visa, And well, after that, they asked us like phones, cameras, We delivered it, they took it, This room Well, it's like a they have the photos of the leaders, And upon entering there was like a table But they were just like books After that room, we move on where they were... I mean, only some arrangements and cameras pointing to some security filters, and there we Something that is that everyone who brought we had to We left them at a table and they checked, and because you can't enter or anything that goes against I bring a book that is from the OMNI Planet, After they checked my cameras, they were like checking that there was nothing And once they finished that, Now we are waiting, But we are... Suddenly the officers go up, It is quite interesting, somewhat stressful, especially considering that the issue is not I mean, we didn't feel like At that moment, as soon it does feel, and it's something They already brought us Let's eat, this is like fish, I don't know but my friend below, I saw that and rice, it seems that I am going We just left the first station here And we are moving on There are moments where suddenly you have and you see them, and you know that And there are many things or many things that do not come to Obviously we do not come with the intention because that is very But... This is a very It's very strange to see people what we are And so, after 4 flights, and 90 hours after leaving my house, And of course, there were still 5 hours of train But from this point, I began to have which for many is considered the most Kilometers and kilometers Virtually empty but full of people Each of these people with a life and Some smiling, But hey... All very focused on In addition to people, I was also very impressed by the architecture With that characteristic and that seems to be Residential buildings, villages with houses of And something that caught my attention we could see the same picture of the founding and his son Kim Jong-il, And I was also impressed by that I saw and that later I understood that it Another interesting thing is that can be seen through the windows they seem to be strategically Almost as if they were that the passengers of this train And it was here that a part or tried to draw as if there was an internal to all the stories I had But I better tried to relax, and not So I started eating and to recover energy On the other hand and also my friends from the tour group and exchange stories Some of them had been Others were just beginning their But something we it was that none of us had and we all had a about the risks Each of us had a different past and England, Australia, Israel, But we all shared and the curiosity of was what joined our roads The capital of one of the most Friends, something very I was standing here, and suddenly one of the... I have been told that... It belongs to those This man He passed and patted me I swear! -Did that happen? There it is, I am not lying. She saw everything, Suddenly it happened, And I turned... Well, yes, it happened, and I said, &quot;Maybe he's because I had the And I turn and he smile I say: Well... I mean, We are here with the people of... -London -And... We're right now... Many of you who even warned me when I told you that I You wrote me all Some said that it is completely Others said that it can be done, Others claimed that I would break or if I didn't have the hairstyle And someone even came to warn me or even But what is the story that makes everyone scare us ideas How did North Korea become most isolated and So you can understand everything and throughout my adventure I'm going to tell you the story of became the villain many talk The first thing you have to know The Korean peninsula is which is divided almost in half, into two North Korea and South Korea. But it was In fact, 71 years ago these and instead there was only one The kingdom of Korea and almost no one had except for its neighbors, In 1894 China and Japan, because both wanted to have control and A year later that war was won by Japan continued to seize At the beginning of the 20th another neighbor in the area entered to defend the Korean But in this new Japanese Russian war there were But Russia began to that years later they would and fight against the Years passed, and we reached the Second By this time, while most of the important In East Asia, Japan had become which crushed the weakest territories Where men were killed or The Japanese were so cruel that even changed their and they were forbidden because they practically wanted to disappear But in 1945, the United States defeated Japan by and the end of the second The problem is that now they had to decide how to divide Among the winners of the war was And the Soviet Union And among the territories of the Which was to the west influenced and to the east by And among the territories to be divided that had been rescued from But now it only remained to The Soviet Union was already and the United States had The division was but both wanted to control And in 1947, the UN headed proposed making elections to democratically But the Soviet Union was not and the elections were held only In 1948, Syngman Rhee became the first And although Syngman Rhee For many years he lived, studied and made Which practically implied that the United States put it there because For its part, the Soviet Union and put a character named Kim Il-sung who was and during the second world war that fought And obviously, being Korean but it was convenient for the Soviet and thus maintain So the Soviet Union began to as a national hero and in September 1948 Kim Il-sung creates better known as But in addition to he also created the institutions, conformed by his companions who made North Korea In addition to creating a with which the government and maintain influence Through art, Kim Il-sung's personality highlighting his achievements, to almost religious Something that will make us understand many of But well, returning to 1948, and South Korea with its capital in and we might think that everyone But it was not like that! In fact, this is where many of because being divided both presidents had a tremendous desire and rule This rivalry sparked one of and it was almost to But I will tell you that part of in the next videos so you Friends, it's 6:30 p.m., after spending all Look... Right now we are about to head Look at this... It was 6:30 p.m., I had more than and have traveled thousands of I was tired, I had not bathed, But seeing and suddenly see the train station its communist architecture I understood that this and that I was about to step on the capital of And so I would know what had caused me immense My dear, minimarkets... Welcome to Pyongyang, This is amazing! To be continue... If you liked this video, subscribe to my channel And you would help me a lot if and so more people For that, I invite you to give it and above all share the link and all your social networks