- Hi, my name is Olivia and I'm here today to celebrate and the excitement around So, just a few days ago, the Physics Nobel Prize for this year was awarded to three gentlemen: John Clauser, Alaine Aspect, and Anton Zeilinger. These gentlemen won the award and experiments in quantum mechanics. And all of this research was based upon some original by a gentleman named John Bell, who tragically passed away before he was able to see a Nobel Prize or something of that magnitude. But we are going to discuss it here today and show why the off of John Bell's original So we have to go back a little bit in history in order to set the stage and the context of why So, in the sixties, John Stewart Bell was which was a paper written by Einstein and some of his colleagues that quantum mechanics Now, in quantum mechanics, we say there exists this thing Which describes all of the properties of your quantum system. And upon measurement, it That was only described probabilistically before you measured it. Anyway, in the paper, Einstein said that quantum mechanics must be an incomplete theory because this could not be possible. This would necessitate believe to be true. And so we were either missing somehow these particles were interacting in a way that we didn't or didn't have a description for yet. But basically it was not finished. And sometime later, John Stewart Bell was reading this paper, and he sat down and he wrote as &quot;Bell's Theorem.&quot; In just a few lines of algebra, he showed that if you Those things being local realism. Locality, meaning you can't travel faster than the speed of light. And realism, which means that things whether or not you measure them. So for instance, we always say, &quot;if a tree falls in the forest and no one is around to hear If the answer is yes, this would be an example So he assumed only those two things in his mathematical derivation. And he was able to show that quantities that you can by classical physics if you And essentially he was able to show, on paper at least, that quantum mechanics was incompatible with any classical theory. So anything that was basically could not possibly work So now a few years later, John Clauser came along and and he thought that that was able to be done experimentally. So he was able to actually in the laboratory for the first time, a violation of this equality and show that indeed, nature behaves And so in essence, Einstein was wrong in his EPR paper. And this led to from Alaine Aspect who was able to perform even more tests of Bell's inequality and close some of the And then this led to Anton Zeilinger who was able to show the demonstration for the first time of Which is not what you might think. it's not at all like Star Trek. People are not teleporting quantum teleportation is a way to entangle or correlate quantum particles in such a way that you can from one to another. So in order to really understand and why this is so groundbreaking, I want to go back and look at a very specific demonstration There are in fact many that can be shown but we're gonna look at really one specific one today which is called the CHSH test or the CHSH inequality. And so what you need to do for this thought a person named Alice and a gentleman named Bob and they are standing from one another. And then there's another let's just call him Victor. And he's going to send a particle to Alice and to Bob at the same time. And Alice and Bob are going to perform, every single time this happens, They're going to either or the Y projection of this particle. And so you can only measure one at a time. So in order to have a good understanding of the measurements of both, they have to perform this And it's important to receives a particle, Bob And again, the only thing is local realism. So these particles are not moving faster than the speed of light. Bob and Alice can't call each other faster than the speed of light and nothing like that. And these particles also that are either going because, let's just say they So the values for X and Y for Alice and X and Y for Bob, can only be one or minus one. They are binary. So now at this point, we need to write down what So, this is like so, Alice's measurement of X times Bob's measurement of x plus Alice's measurement of X, Bob's measurement of Y, Alice's measurement of Y, Bob's measurement of X. And then you subtract from that sum Alice's measurement Of Y and Bob's measurement of Y. And it really doesn't matter The fact is, if we look we can factor out the Alice quantities from the Bob quantities. And you see, we would And I drew this for you here, a little equal sign there at the end, so you can see that either this value every time the experiment is performed or this value is going Because either you are or you're gonna have minus one plus one. The values again, can So the maximum value this is equal to two, at most. But remember, we're running this So say we ran this experiment, you know, hundreds of times and we're measuring a few different values every and a few different values every time Bob is measuring X and Y. That means that this is but it can be equal to two or less than two. Once we take the averages, and that's what these We're gonna take the average All right. So this value has to be less than two. If the only assumptions and realism. However, let's think about Slightly differently. Let's now assume that just a random object Alice they are going to be These are qubits. It doesn't matter how they at the beginning, let's What you're actually going to measure, once you perform this is that this quantity is 2.8. Not two, not less than two. We know for sure that Which means that if these of quantum mechanics, quantum mechanics violates It is incompatible with local realism. So either something is moving faster than the speed of light or, these particles do not before they are measured. And now a lot of people, I think, misconstrue what this actually means. Some people think that for faster than light communication. This is not the case. Let me be very clear about that, because this is a really Bob and Alice are not communicating with each other faster There's no possible way to do that. The particles become entangled, and when you measure them, we know that instantaneously is going to choose the opposite correlated value, negative one. But that does not mean that Alice and Bob are able to communicate with each other faster than the speed of light. No information is being So that's really important to know. And since there's no evidence of anything in the universe traveling the way that most scientists that we have to give These quantum particles values that are specific to They are instead (chuckles) called and And so it has some probability of being in either state one or minus And you might be wondering, where does this 2.8 number come from? Certainly it's greater than two, and we can understand that it does indeed But where does this 2.8 come from? And so, if you're interested, I challenge you to go online and the link is linked below in the bio, and to try your hand at this experiment for yourself right now. There is a tutorial actually on the Qiskit textbook, And you can run the or wherever you are right now, and see indeed that you that is approximately 2.8. And while you might not win a Nobel Prize for doing this because lots of experiments in this vein have been done at this point, I still think it's miraculous that we have gone in a few decades from an experiment that to an experiment that you can do, that I can do, from anywhere in the world. So what this showed is is even weirder and even more mysterious than we initially thought it was. It's completely incompatible that we can come up with. If you assume locality and realism. And reading this you might That's impossible. I hate it. But what these gentlemen were able to do is read this, this proof, this thought experiment, and then go to the lab it in real life. So it's not just weird on paper, it's weird in the real world. Quantum mechanics brings us to the brink of the impossible and it at which we shouldn't be able to fully comprehend what's going And so that's why it's just a really, really exciting time for Because these scientists showed that not only is quantum and counterintuitive, it is practical. And everything that we are working on today at IBM Quantum, everything that other are working on, quantum are all built upon these experiments which showed for the first quantum entanglement, really is something that is than classical physics can describe. So I want to wish congratulations to the Nobel Laureates, again, from myself and everybody here at IBM and thank them for their work and for our jobs as well. (gentle music)