THE GENIUSES OF FILM. EPISODE 1 - THE DIRECTORS OF PHOTOGRAPHY actors. They are right in front of us on the screen, and we experience their emotions alongside Sometimes, we allow directors into the spotlight But to do that they have to either film a introduce something completely new to cinema. But is film really only made up of those in No, it is much more like a machine, which This is "The Geniuses of Film", a series people who create these masterpieces. When watching this scene, we all think, "Spielberg And while that is undeniably true, the image of him. Today we are going to talk about the gifted the right lens, composition, light, color, and ends with the most important element of These names are not often spoken, but I will Yes, the first episode is dedicated to the the best lens geniuses as chosen by Okolo (this list is extremely subjective and if don't be mad but do tell us about them in So, let's begin. Hoyte Van Hoytema among the masters of light and composition. Hoyte Van Hoytema has only been in the big in the top 15 might be premature, but his all expectations. In 2010 David O. Russell invited the young after which he immediately received an invitation Spy. The book robbery scene in the library is Hoyte's The suspense seems to ooze thanks to the wide Three years later, together with Spike Jones, Her. This collaboration attracted the admiration Hoyte and Christopher worked together on the I would say the ability to communicate the greatest strength. It doesn't matter if it's by color, angle out the themes of the script no less than And though his career is only beginning, this the envy of any master in this profession. Considering his friendship with some of the Van Hoytema is a name which I'm sure we'll credits of true masterpieces. Seamus McGarvey to the multitude of young directors of photography added dozens of successful projects to his Seamus excellently combines working on both After filming his important debut comedy Sahara, first and foremost for its visual aesthetics. Thanks to this film, Seamus was nominated Five years later he was simultaneously working as the first installment of The Avengers. Thanks to Anna Karenina he was shortlisted Later McGarvey worked on another first installment drama Fifty Shades of Grey but by the next Nocturnal Animals and The Accountant which experience. A defining aspect of his style is his close During this stage Seamus thinks through the work. And though he is often criticized for the love his approach. He is able to conform to the needs of the events even during mind bending shots. I think that McGarvey, like Van Hoytema, hasn't that his vision contains great promise. Larry Smith Stanley Kubrick his whole career. Having gotten a job on the set of Barry Lyndon he was the gaffer for The Shining and the Working with this directing genius gave Larry the attention of those who worshipped Kubrick. This led to the collaboration with Nicolas God Forgives. The experience of working with a Hollywood in all its glory. These films are remarkable because of their The theatrical scenes of Bronson appear in manner. Especially taking into account that the filming I have no idea how Smith was able to achieve Also, Larry and John Michael McDonagh made I think the story of the doomed priest is This creation of a contemporary noir spirit, landscapes which so strongly contrast with a viewer. In recent years we haven't often seen Larry change. Garrett Brown on set. He was never admired by millions of fans for sat in the front rows of the Dolby Theater. Only those who like to read the film credits his influence on cinematography is impossible He invented the Steadicam, an invention which 1976 this innovation rocked the film industry. That same year he shot the famous scene from and worked on the finale of The Shining. Later he received the Scientific and Engineering epic scenes for dozens of amazing pictures. He worked with Brian De Palma, Martin Scorsese, Demme. Furthermore, he received two more golden statuettes a legend. So next time you watch this scene, remember, Brown. John Mathieson and music videos. His story is remarkable because of how quickly He became famous thanks to music clips for His work in commercials introduced him to After a few projects he became the assistant You'd think that it would take years to Tony's brother Ridley, hired Madieson to This resulted in an Oscar nomination, glory, Throw in there his work on K-PAX and Phantom of modern film. In 2010 he parted ways with Ridley Scott and and filming projects for Marvel Studios. The filming of the sci-fi action Logan is insisted on avoiding chroma key as much as achievements in the superhero film genre. Mathieson is a conserver of visual aesthetics. He loves to play with light and epic shots. One of his quotes especially stuck with me, This philosophy is clearly inherited from one of those operators who tries to communicate prefers to give the audience beauty. Unfortunately, John's work on Mary Queen that soon followed, the comedy fantasy Pokemon Mathieson's talent. However, I have to admit the visual aspect Bruno Delbonnel with that of Jean-Pierre Jeunet. 16 years brought to the screen one of the most important the romantic comedy Amelie. The playful use of color, size and an incredible attention of Hollywood's cinematographers He continued to work with Jeunet and added and the sixth installment of the Harry Potter The projects attracted the attention of Tim works to this day. What sets aside Delbonnel from the others, The bright tones of Amelie, the autumn yellowness of the drama Inside Llewyn Davis. There are operators who are lauded for being attention, but Bruno is not one of them. The visual aspect of Big Eyes and Dark Shadows Bruno's style. In 2017 Delbonnel was introduced to another Joe Wright. Together they created the historical drama and imagery ended up being a whole new level He already has 5 Oscar nominations under his way. Joe Wright's next film The Woman in the Rear Window. The visual component of that film is the stuff will be worth watching. Robert Burks of horror, it would be impossible to pass Robert Burks was the close friend of Alfred his biggest hits except for Psycho and Rope. Burks' work on Rear Window is considered in cinematography. The opening scene is a timeless masterpiece. Innovations in forced perspective while shooting calling card. He was nominated four times for an Oscar and a statuette for the film To Catch A Thief. Alfred often spoke of Robert's ability to that it was hard to believe that Rear Window same operator. And I don't need to remind you how he somehow whole generation of viewers. After the tragic death of Burks and his wife films, which were not able to surpass the Janusz Kaminski He settled in Chicago and shot cheap B horror Despite being constantly faced with a lack his original style. In 1991, when Diane Keaton invited him to chance to shoot a serious film. This picture turned Janusz's life upside A year later, Steven Spielberg was looking and the promising Janusz, did not only have Kaminsky ended up shooting one of the most an Oscar and becoming an irreplaceable colleague While Steven would work on breathtaking plots, film, Janusz brought his dreams to life. Over the next 25 years he worked as an operator 4 times for an Oscar, and in 1999 won again, Ryan. Kaminsky's style favors artistic expression He often plays with light and uses bright symbolism. In recent years Janusz has balanced working and sometimes even shoots extravagant music His career is forever tied to one of the most films are impossible to imagine without Kaminisky's Vittorio Storaro for the visual component of the film, considered Vittorio Storaro shot Apocalypse Now. Yes, it was directed by Francis Ford Coppola, Each scene in this picture is art at its best scenes is without a doubt one of the best If we look more closely at Vittorio's career attention. He and his countryman Bernardo Bertolucci The Conformist. Later Storaro filmed Bertolucci's Eastern Four nominations and 3 Oscars confirm Vittorio's By the way he is one of three living operators What made Storaro such an amazing cinematographer? The answer is simple: his love for color. Color is the key player in Storaro's work. He talks about it in every interview and even Using Apocalypse Now as an example he explains journey to self-realization. The film reel is his canvas and he is a real wrong century. Today Vittorio is 80 years old, but he doesn't with Woody Allen the last few years and shot Well, we hope that he has many more productive Luca Bigazzi heir to Vittorio Sortaro. But unlike Vitorrio, Luca prefers composition Unusual angles, play with perspective and up his calling card. Over the last ten years Bigazzi's work with Luca began his career in commercials but quickly in 2003. This duet seems to be composed of two artists Each picture they create can be watched without Like a poem written in scenes. At the risk of repeating myself, it seems a knack for bringing artistic beauty to the Bigazzi is famous for his modern commercials He often shoots commercials for world famous It's also interesting that Luca is one of the switch to digital film, believing that He also criticizes film school, saying that The works of this Italian hooligan are definitely of The New Pope we have another 10 hours of Paolo. Freddie Young the most influential operator in history. His collaboration with David Lean brought His use of space and unrivalled mastery of audiences to this day. Of course, among the hundreds of movies Young from Laurence of Arabia, Doctor Zhivago and of film history and bequeathed him three Oscars. In a way, Young became the common thread throughout Born in 1902 Freddie got his first job in 2 went to the front as the main operator for He filmed his greatest works after the age In conclusion he worked on 123 films, received the longest active career in the history of Five years after his death, in 2003, the International in a list of the 10 most influential operators His work on Laurence of Arabia was named the the 20th century. When studying the art of Freddie Young and greatest era of American film which won't viewers. Robert Elswit is justly considered the most verssatile cinematographer In the 80s he made cheap horror films and career took a turn. Meeting Paul Thomas Anderson gave the operator world hundreds of breathtaking shots. I don't know how the Academy managed to but in 2007 he left the Oscars no option when Interestingly, that year is considered by competition in the history of the Oscars. Elswit's work held its own against opponents Coward Robert Ford, No Country For Old Men That kind of competition made the victory I could talk about There Will Be Blood for Anderson's directing brought out an exceptional captured on the thirty-five-millimeter film The New York Times dubbed it the best movie Another small fact is that Robert often makes This is because Elswit's close friend is worked with in the 90s. Robert is Jake's godfather and never passes But let's return to the versatility of this From the re-creation of the golden era of to Tom Cruise clambering up the Burj Khalifa. Consider the monochrome elegance of Good Night place in the same period. Each of Robert's steps on the way to preparing needs of the director. The ability to discover the purpose of the and color, allows the creators of the film much as the screenplay. Robert doesn't hog the blanket, he just wildest dreams. Emmanuel Lubezki is an operator who is rightly considered to profession. But fame for him is just a bonus of his art. He prefers to stick to the shadows. Emmanuel Lubezki is one of the reasons Mexican In recent years the Three Amigos have been is the stamp of quality for any film. He is the only person in the history of the three years in a row and be nominated 8 times. His career is permanently bonded to Alfonso He is responsible for scenes which will be Emmanuel is the king of lighting, which he It was Lubezki who caused millions of viewers lens and long shots without cuts, further Ark. He so expertly incorporated discoveries from years from now, young cinematographers will art of Emmanuel Lubezki will have the place It's also worth mentioning that his style If needed, the operator was able to conform it was impossible to believe that the same His work with Tim Burton and the Cohen Brothers And though the last four years have not yielded with what we have. For example, we have the fantastical scenes Flesh and Sand. Alejandro Gonzalez Inarritu already received for the short virtual reality installation I'm sure that there are more awards and distant future. Robert Richardson Hollywood. He captured on film phenomenal performances Robert Richardson is the third living operator His career began by working with Oliver Stone, Oscar. Until 1997, this couple was inseparable. However, it's worth mentioning his duet everything including Kill Bill with the exception The shooting of Hateful 8 using seventy-millimeter brought to life one of Tarantino's craziest His tricks and unique lighting techniques Even so, Richardson knows how to adapt to working with Martin Scorsese was practically The duet with Martin led to two statuettes And if in Hugo he was just brilliantly fulfilling The parallel between the lighting and the is captivating. This work is worthy to be among the greatest my humble opinion, the amazing compositions of the 21st century. Robert is an icon of modern film, and his When Once Upon A Time in Hollywood came out disappoint and delivered another great addition his collection. Roger Deakins of movie lovers. Scenes from his nighttime train robbery will He shot films which audiences around the world Over the last forty years he has pushed the the film industry. Roger Deakins is a living legend of the American In order to name all his masterpieces, we taken up. Roger began his climb with the Cohen Brothers, His vision of the story of Fargo, or El Duderino's the beginning of a very long list. He was nominated for an Oscar 13 times before Runner 2049, having filmed the previous two He helped Frank Darabont create the screen told the story of A Beautiful Mind with Ron See, I did try to create a short list, but His career has too many hills and very few But he is at the top of this list not because films, he is at the top of the list for a Roger has an amazing gift. In each film he finds a visual metaphor which its purpose without words and providing closure. His signature shots burn into the memory of their lives, this cinematographic language operator. I am certain that at this moment viewers have One camp adores Deakins' style and guessed The other camp adores Deakins' style but Well, that concludes the story of Okolo Kino's I know that dozens of masters of this profession Sven Nykvist, but I hope that this will push composition and their dedicated ambassadors. Keep loving film and reveling in its magic.