A single Intercontinental Ballistic Missile, the United States to carry on a nuclear attack. Of course if this was a full blown nuclear Ballistic Missiles would be launched, in which PIZDEZ, Game Over! You simply cannot stop a raid of hundreds But what it takes to even intercept a single It can take up to 30 seconds to detect the If it's cloudy, as soon as the rocket rises be detected by infrared sensors, either on or newer Space-Based Infrared System. Once an ICBM is detected by multiple satellites, be calculated, but not necessarily its target. Thus a decision has to be made by command Is the missile hostile, or could it be just The reality is that a simple test launch could war. For this reason, the United States has recently of increased tension with Russia due to their But once the decision is made to fire an interceptor, down the ICBM, since ballistic missiles go mid-course phase, and terminal phase. Arguably, the easiest time to shoot down an the least practical one. Intercepting an ICBM during the boost phase, is a huge advantage. Instead of intercepting a small nuclear warhead, hot booster that is of monstrous size. But it is a race against time that makes it A typical ICBM burns for about 250 seconds. As mentioned earlier, it can take up to 30 and it can then take up to 60 to 70 seconds And that's without taking into account a This brings the total reaction time to 100 only 150 seconds to intercept the missile. Depending on the model, an interceptor has Satellite and other ground based sensors can can lock in to the heat signature and strike through the tenuous flame. This would be known as "Hit to Kill". While older and less advanced systems would fuse to detonate an explosive warhead, the that is, the interceptor's mass and speed, it. What follows a successful strike is a "shoot-look-shoot" has been destroyed before launching another This minimizes the number of interceptors As you will find out soon, that is very important. On paper, it's relatively easy to destroy In practice, however, you have severe reach-versus-time First challenge is that the command &amp; control an interceptor. If making the decision takes more than a minute, the ICBM before its boost phase ends. To overcome this "time challenge", it at the "speed of light". A powerful laser! The goal of the YAL-1 airborne laser system boost phase, from a distance of 115 to 200 However, the laser turned out to be not effective energy more than it was originally anticipated. The effective range turned out to be measured the Boeing 747 on which the laser was mounted No ship Sherlock, the program was canceled. The Second challenge is range. The interceptors would have to be launched launch site which would make it vulnerable Some say the lower bound is 30 miles, and Regardless, this is a big issue! It may work in case of intercepting a rocket from the middle of Russia and China. While the American SM-3 Missile, which can Ashore, has the capability to intercept ICBMs viable option due to the range-time problem. The American missile defense system currently destroy ICBMs during the boost phase. There is, however, research being conducted Aerial Vehicles. The boost phase may be out for now, but destroying provides the largest time interval to do so, Seems like a lot of time, but accomplishing a bullet with another bullet. Ballistic missile travels at a speed of about That's 9 times faster than the speed of There are two ways Americans can intercept Using a Ground Based interceptor, or using be launched from Aegis cruisers and destroyers. The Ground-Based Interceptor, is part of a Defense Program, which is one layer of the intended to protect the United States from A Ground-Based Interceptor is a multi-stage, Kill vehicle or EKV. Exo-Atmospheric means "outside of atmosphere", relies on thrusters to maneuver, since the atmosphere. This in contrast to endo-Atmospheric, meaning is maneuverable through aerodynamic forces. A booster carries the EKV toward the target's released, it uses guidance data transmitted components, as well as on-board sensors to Each Ground-Based Interceptor requires its the United States are currently located at Fort Greel, Alaska. Each interceptor costs a whopping $75 million Aside from the ground-based interceptors, is to utilize the Aegis Ballistic Missile Specifically, the SM-3 Block II Alpha that track and intercept an intermediate range This is known as "engage on remote". The SM-3 is a multi stage interceptor that and destroyers as well as Aegis Ashore. The interceptor delivers a "kill vehicle" an incoming warhead. The biggest challenge for SM-3 interceptors The launch ship has to be suitably located This is why SM-3s are only good at intercepting Interceptors can do both intermediate-range So far, things seem more or less under control, Decoys. During its mid-course phase, a typical Russian seems to be 50 nuclear warheads. But in reality, only 10 of those are actual Targetable Reentry Vehicles or MIRV. The other 40 are decoys. All of a sudden, one ICMB has turned into to be intercepted. The defense systems need to have a way to so precious interceptors are not wasted on We should also add that other debris, like challenge. While low-resolution radars can track individual a lethal object versus a decoy. This is precisely why the US has the Sea-Based lethal targets from decoys, and then perform Another similar radar, the Long Range Discrimination Alaska, can similarly discriminate lethal to interceptor missiles in real time. The LRDR construction and installations have with the final touches currently being performed 2022. The EKV, not only relies on its own sensors it also uses data from the discriminatory Knowing all this, how many ICBMs do you think using its entire stock of 44 Ground Based Just to demonstrate the complexity of each this scenario. A single R-36 ICBM can house 10 warheads and Assuming that the discrimination radars can you'd think the 44 Ground Based Interceptors carrying 10 warheads each. But the answer ... is Not What You Think. Each Ground Based Interceptor only has a 56% target. It would take not two, not three, but four intercepting a single target to 97%, which can easily overwhelm the United States' detonate on American soil. And this is exactly why the American Missile A single line would only be able to destroy multiple lines of defense, last of which is all, warheads. A Terminal phase begins when a nuclear warhead This phase is very short, only takes about to intercept before the warhead reaches its That said, this is the least desirable time to the intended target, and there is also Note that when a nuclear warhead is intercepted, In order for a warhead to go critical, the sequence, essential to initiate a nuclear The result of an interception would be a large area, which is not good, but it's much better The American Ballistic Missile Defense System phase using the Terminal High Altitude Area launched from warships, or with the US Army's But there's a catch. While viewing the Missile Defense Agency diagram systems that we just mentioned can intercept these interceptors can only hit short-range, missiles. They cannot shoot down Intercontinental Ballistic the atmosphere at Mach 24+. Maybe THAAD would be able to hit it head on, THAAD's top speed is less than Mach 9, and of Mach 5 to 8 at a maximum altitude of 93 An alternative way to shoot down nuclear warheads interceptors armed with small nuclear bombs. This is exactly the strategy that the Russian on. By exploding nuclear interceptors on the border can disable incoming warheads traveling at 20. Who would have thought, shooting down nukes, The bottom line is this, shooting down something complicated. And we haven't even mentioned Maneuverable that can outmaneuver defense systems. The current goal of missile defense systems like North Korea from launching ICBMs towards deterred. That is, they are not afraid of total annihilation, A recent 2022 study argued that no system against realistic ICBM threats. Even from North Korea. The Pentagon respectively disagrees. They feel confident in their abilities and and inaccurate data due to "classification The Pentagon aims to develop a next generation I suppose we'll see about that ... on a to find out.