They are a people often in conflict with later come into the service of Saruman, that of clear-cut villains. But rather a group Today, on Nerd of the Rings, As one might expect, the name Dunlendings derives with - the lands of Dunland which lie to the like all men, would originate in the far East of three clans under their respective leaders As we covered in my video on the Edain, many However, there were men who would remain the later Numenoreans as Middle Men. the Vales of Anduin or Rhovanion, becoming some of the Haladin would settle in Eriador, While it is said the Beorians and and traveled together for much of their migration, we will see continues through generations. the lands on either side of the Gwathlo river Several hundred years later, these other men sailing from the western Despite being on the eastern side of they had heard rumors of a terrible the resulting destruction of Beleriand. For assume that all Men dwelling in Beleriand at But it had also been passed down generation once been kinsmen of their own. Thus, these asking if they could meet these shipmen of the Sea." A group of 12 of the to the Tower Hills where they would meet Despite many others fearing the the dead, these 12 would have no though the Numenoreans looked more like elvish the Numenoreans looked with glad surprise on the men who stayed behind in Eriador of evil - for Morgoth in the last days of the While their languages are quite different, and were able to converse about simple matters things to the Men of Middle-earth, commonly ancestors of the Dunlendings, but many men They taught them language, brought corn and grinding of grain, hewing of wood, Then the Men of Middle-earth were comforted, houseless woods drew back, and Men shook and unlearned their terror of the dark. And and when they had departed they called Yet, this relationship would sour. As the Aldarion establishes the port of Lond Daer at the and build ships. As the Numenorean tree-felling attacking and ambushing their former allies. In becoming ruthless in their felling of trees and The surviving men of this devastation of the Misty Mountains, the lands that of these men would move further north until becoming the ancestors of the Men Due to the Numenoreans and their actions, the of the West and their allies for thousands of the Numenoreans, Tolkien says: The devastation long years these lands were their chief source Daer and elsewhere, but also for Numenor itself. After the Fall of their island kingdom, the Gondor in the South and Arnor in the north. keep them from inhabiting the lands of Pre-Numenoreans) would come to intermingle and Not so with the Dunlendings. Yet, while they they were not so isolated as to not live During the Wandering Days of the Hobbits Stoor hobbits would come to live alongside in these lands over the next 450 years, until Just 35 years later, the Great and Rhovanion. Thanks to their tendency less than much of Middle-earth. Between with the Easterlings, the Gondorian During this time, Gondor ceases to man their begin to settle in portions of Calenardhon. One more commonly known as Isengard. This was garrison remained, though the Dunlendings would the line of the chieftains here would fail. Yet, the Dunlending settlement of be a point of contention for centuries to awards the Eotheod of Rhovanion with for their aid during a particularly The Dunlendings view these new people as toward the new Kingdom of Rohan is born. Often attack the Rohirrim when they were weak. While the people of Isengard allows them to settle not gain access to the fortress itself. In time, of the Ring of Isengard and kill any of the During the reigns of Kings Brego and drive the Dunlendings out of Rohan. They are it is likely these events Saruman is he riles up the men who swear fealty to him, However, sometime after Aldor's death in Rohan and settle in the northern Westfold, the the southern eaves of Fangorn forest. Once again, However, there were instances of Rohirrim and While it was rare, there were some among the and Rohan. One such person was Freca, a lord Adorn river west of the Gap of Rohan. As a lord And while he was often summoned to King Helm's --------- in 2754 TA, where Freca would come with many of for his son Wulf. The King, who mistrusted Freca, last here; but it is mostly fat, I guess" and men 'Then Freca fell in a rage and reviled "Old kings that refuse a proffered After their council, Helm would order their dispute. In Helm's declaration to Freca, we find that animosity toward the Now, Dunlending," said the king, "you have only said much already, and it is my turn to speak. You talk of a staff! If Helm dislikes a crooked With that he smote Freca such a blow with his fist 'Helm then proclaimed Freca's son and they fled, for at once Helm sent Four years later, in 2758 TA, Rohan is the Dunlendings, now led by Wulf, come The Dunlendings are bolstered by a up the Gondorian coast and landed in The Dunlendings would meet Helm and his forces driving him back to the Hornburg. With would later be known as Helm's Deep, Wulf die defending the doors of Meduseld and Wulf The siege of the Hornburg, at this time called would arguably be the greatest conquest in Rohan would lie under snow during the Long and the Dunlendings would claim the life of his grief and in the midst of famine, Helm would Dunlending camps and kill men with his bare hands. frozen as he stood. Long would the legend of Helm Shortly after the winter breaks in March of survivors from Dunharrow to Edoras. Their attack kills the self proclaimed king in the very having overcome their own battles, out the remaining Dunlendings. By the end fully driven out of Rohan, including In their place would come an unexpected and Rohan - the wizard Saruman the White. the Rohirrim enthusiastically welcome the they realize that centuries later this wizard Dunlendings. We are told the Dunlendings until the reign of King Folcwine, who, with Nearly 200 years later, Saruman would enlist the of Rohan. With Saruman's machinations through and the Dunlendings meet little resistance Dunlendings as soldiers against Rohan, but known only as the squint-eyed southerner. This cast out by his people due to the rumor he was a half-orc or goblin-man, terrible Regardless of his ancestry, he would enter the on the borders of the Shire, negotiating the Merry and Pippin would later discover. Along with Shire and learn of any hobbits leaving it's of the One Ring. However, this dunlending exile make their way toward the Shire, they discover The Witch-king puts the Shadow of Fear upon the but Sauron. The southerner meets Bill Ferny, at the Prancing Pony they would witness Frodo Baggins disappear. The next morning, after the Nazgul attack glimpse of the southerner in the window of Bill wondered about his description as "squint-eyed" Just what my father meant to convey by the sure. I don't think that he can possibly (goblin-like). He may have meant that he but that seems unnecessarily particular. So didn't look straight, but obliquely, watchfully, While we know nothing else the Dunlendings would again play a large role in the Dunlendings would wage the Battle of the put Helm Hammerhand under siege - a place where After Gandalf's arrival with Erkenbrand the men of Dunland would surrender. This defeat aggression in Rohan. However, Saruman would After his defeat at Isengard he would eventually be freed of his north he would be overtaken on the road and others on their way to Rivendell after that Saruman's evil deeds were already in These ruffians are no doubt made up of a roughly 100 of these ruffians would fight of Bywater - the climactic battle in the Scouring a resounding victory - killing 70 ruffians, Nothing more is said of the the War of the Ring. And while it was there is reason to hope for more their defeat at the Battle of Helm's Deep, 'Help now to repair the evil and afterwards you shall take an oath never to march with the enemies of Men; and then have been deluded by Saruman. Many of you have but had you conquered, little The men of Dunland were amazed; for Rohan were cruel and burned their captives alive.' We will never know for certain what become of But just maybe, there is hope that and that old wounds between these ancient as always I want to say a huge thank you who make this channel possible Tom de Thomas Charles Leisure CCDC red team Joe traveler Matthew Jeffrey Viking Lord Alvin vitori Sky carcus slide belts Dane Ragnar Berto and N Michael woo and Debbie if you enjoyed the the description to purchase prints of their great