(logo whooshes) - Hey, everyone, I'm Thanks for joining me Today, we'll be learning It's so important to because when you can think in English, you can communicate without translating every word in your head, because it allows you to more rapidly, with more ease, you can answer questions more quickly. Basically, learning to think in English is a huge step toward fluency. Oh, I'm so happy that you joined me today for this important lesson. But before we get started, I want you to take a moment If you subscribe, then you'll be sure to get our newest and latest videos as soon as they come out. Subscribe. Okay. Very cool. So, let's get started. I've got five tips for you today. My first tip for learning is to get comfortable talking to yourself in English. So, for many people, talking to themselves feels really awkward, and I understand that it does feel a little awkward. But the thing is, you're right now and you don't even realize it. You might be saying something to yourself, like, this chick's crazy or, I wonder what her books are about. I hope you're paying more but my point is we're So, the thing is I want you to start talking to yourself in English, to talk to yourself in and to talk to yourself aloud in English. So, I have a few tips for those of you who don't usually talk If you do talk to yourself in English, feel free to share some So, my first tip for learning is to start very simple. Begin by talking to yourself when you're brushing So, when I was learning I really like to talk to because I couldn't talk So, I might say something to myself, like, (speaking in foreign language). So, what happened to my hair? I look like a crazy chick. So, maybe noticing my hair in the morning. And so, that's where you can start. Just notice your face, notice your hair, notice the things you like about yourself, and talk to yourself Another good tip is to talk to yourself Or if you work from home, to talk to yourself before you start work. So, you can talk aloud or in your head about what you have to do that day. So, maybe you have a meeting, you have emails you have to So just talking to yourself about those things, but in English, all right? My third tip for talking is become a narrator. So, to narrate means to tell You've probably watched a movie where there was a voice in the background telling everyone what was really going on. And so, you, my friend, can So, I really like to narrate about my two, small dogs. I like to pretend that they And so, I can narrate their lives. I can look at them and pretend that maybe they are going but I can use Spanish. So this allows me to that otherwise I may not be able to use and it helps me to stay in a place that feels really fun and playful, and I think that's important as well. So, here's my fourth tip for My tip is to choose an and spend one full minute So, using all the words you Maybe the color, the texture, So, the key here is that for one minute, you continuously talk. So, you don't want to take or anything like that. Just use the words you already know. This will really help and the next time you see that object, you will automatically and that's really, really important. So, I suggest you do this And for those of you who are or aloud in English, like I said before, feel and tell us how that's going for you or if you have any additional tips for us. Okay, let's move on. My second tip for how to think in English is to get rid of your bilingual Most of us think that will help us to become fluent. But the truth is it probably will not and it's probably hurting us. A bilingual dictionary is most helpful for beginners who are just beginning or for people who like to travel and who are just visiting a country but don't care about and that's not you. You care about fluency, to throw the bilingual dictionary out because when you use a an English-only, one language dictionary, you prevent yourself from So, the next time that you don't understand instead of looking it up with your native language, look it up instead in an This is so helpful because as you read the definition and you'll also learn so many new words that are similar to the So, the dictionary that I suggest is Merriam-Webster's beginner's or learner's English-only dictionary. This is an excellent dictionary that can really help toward fluency and toward Okay, let's move on to my third This tip is when you're in a conversation and you don't know a word, instead of stopping to look the word up, So, for example, let's say that I am with someone outside but I forgot my coat. And so, I don't want to So let's say I want to but I've forgotten how If I'm in the conversation on the phone, I can say, I would love to but I think I'll but the cold because I forget that piece of clothing that is almost like a sweater that keeps you warm in the winter. So, describe the word instead. You might feel a little but it's so helpful because you will stay within and that's what fluency is. Fluency is not perfection. It is being able to flow, to So the next time you're and you forget a word, just The other person will probably have fun guessing what you're trying to say. So, I have a little Pick out an object in the room and describe it in Let's see if other people can guess the name for So, see if you can describe it really well and we'll see who can guess the name of the object in English. Okay, let's move on. Number four. My fourth tip for how to think It's to keep a diary and So, to keep a diary, maybe write a paragraph in English. Whenever we are writing in any language that we are trying to learn, it gives us an opportunity to take our time, and to kind of explore whatever comes to mind for us. We can use new vocabulary. We can practice new sentence structure. And whenever we write something down, it helps our brain to remember it. So, this also works very So, a to-do list is a list of So, maybe take the garbage Write all of these things down in English. And then when you're doing those things, you might even be triggered into thinking in English Okay, let's move on to for learning to think in English. This fifth tip is to A mantra is a word or a phrase that you can repeat to yourself that will remind you of something. So, it's usually a word that helps you to be intentional, and helps you to stay positive. So, for example, I suggest creating a mantra in English that you can say right when Before you speak in your native language, your first words can be in English. This will be amazing because it will automatically A good mantra for the like, you wake up and you say to yourself every morning in English, I am amazing and I am excited about Very simple, very positive, and it turns your brain I also suggest that you right before bed, the last can be in English. And so at night, I suggest like, I'm really proud of all the English I learned today. I'm excited to learn Again, very simple, but if you have the last words it will help you to dream in English and for your subconscious to so that they're easier to Okay, so those are my five tips I hope you enjoyed this I think it's one of the that I've created so far, so, it was really fun If you liked this video, to give us a comment, And if you're interested in click below to sign up for a free lesson. Thank you guys so much. I can't wait for our next lesson together. See you later. (logo whooshes)