[sonic sound] fastest camera drone in the world? Max: Do you think that can keep up with me around the best F1 shots ever. David Coulthard: First of all, let's see Shaggy: All right, yes, let's see. fastest win. Drone is in position. All right, Shaggy: 150. 180. Shaggy: 250. Shaggy: 310. [sonic sound] Whoo. Okay. Shaggy: I think I got you there. a small issue. These cars aren't really a real challenge. You film a smooth, around Silverstone in an RV20 with Max Prime. Shaggy: It's going to be hard to get to get the endurance for a full lap. Shaggy: Yes. 1 car around the circuit so much more difficult their ability to go around corners and also to that rapid acceleration and deceleration around going to have to have enough battery to fly flat to make sure that the motor and electrics can take into flames. Then there's the challenge of having keep up with a multiple world champion. an FPV drone for chasing cars. It does 150 to the power, the top speed, and definitely not need to rethink what an FPV drone could be. improving cyclist. Full throttle, baby. idea what's going to happen. Let's see how far it works. Second, that it doesn't burn. See up. Ooh. What the fuck? Whoo. Shaggy: The wire melted. Shaggy: [laughs] Drone prototype number 2. I land? Shaggy: Overheating. It can go maximum 100 degrees around quickly. It really wobbles. Aerodynamic works. [sonic sound] Now, I'm going faster. G50. Shaggy: Oop. Sorry. [laughter] Shaggy: We've tested all we can test in the here at Silverstone for some test laps before. We've only flown in the field so far. it to start it. We have to start it like this, and then Liam: Right. Gianpiero Lambiase: How does it work? or do you program it via GPS? Speaker 8: He's a pilot. Gianpiero: Are you kidding? get to show what we really can do. [sonic sound] It's a fast track. It's hard braking zones. Thomas: A lot of things that could go wrong. Shaggy: Yes. Call it. Drone, take off. Shaggy: Signal is still good. I'm going around the full-speed on the straight now. Oop. Shaggy: Oh, shit. Shaggy: I have no video. Hitting return to home. have video now. canceling this lap. Easy landing, please. Thomas: Two, one, off. Oh, shit. Thomas: It's a bit worse than I was thinking. Shaggy: That really scared me a little bit. signal. We're flying a drone at 300 kilometers an the car, the wake of the car is just causing struggling to keep it stable. If we can't fix Thomas: No pressure. recording. [background noise] Going up. Liam: Dude, what? Look at that. [background in like that. [background noise] Oh, it's watch on TV, nobody understands the speed Shaggy: Yes. Shaggy: Yes, that was low over the bridge. Liam: When you do drone footage shooting off for a little bit and then it takes that's -- wait, it's actually faster than us. here is just ridiculous. here and then into Maggots &amp; Beckets [background noise] lift much. Liam: Now you actually get an idea of [background noise] [laughs] That's so cool, dude. Liam: No pressure, yes. we might have an issue with chasing. We only Shaggy: We can do all sorts of things probably and improve reliability. visit people that know how to help us out. that they use to engineer the car and we use equipment. Formula 1 is all about the development some performance quickly. We can think about using it go quite a lot faster. Some material changes. weight out. I think there's lots of things we can then we'll see where we end up. Shaggy: RBAT have helped us with it's lighter, we have a better camera system. Speaker 9: Max has arrived. Shaggy: Like this. Shaggy: Yes. We've been working for a fastest drones in the world, but it's Max: Do you think you can keep Shaggy: We've not picked the easiest driver the three-time world champion in the RB20. Shaggy: How confident are we feeling? Shaggy: I'm not nervous normally, Speaker 9: Firing up. The car is Shaggy: Let's get ready to go. we have for the RB20. Speaker 9: Now he's leaving the garage. [background noise] [background noise] Thomas: Recording. [background noise] the air. It will be a full lap. Shaggy: I'm on it. [pause 00:09:33] Thomas: That sounds good. Max: Shots never really been done before. The of the the bridges. Max: Crazy. I never thought to see a different perspective to watching Formula 1. then try to match up. For the first two laps. shame with the rain. we need a full speed dry lap behind you. people watch Formula 1.