This video was made possible by Skillshare. Learn for free for two months by being one If you look at the list of the world's twelve Six are relatively small countries where one or kilometers from the ocean. The other six--The United States, China, countries with spots more than a thousand ocean. It's well known that ships are the main to their low cost. In fact, 90% of world trade goes by sea. While most of the world's population lives plenty of populated areas far inland that For that, there's freight trains. Unsurprisingly, those six physically largest in order, the world's six top users of freight To understand the role of freight rail, you In the US, it costs, on average, about 4 cents a small car, one mile on a freight train. That's about 2.5 cents per ton-kilometer. What that means is that, on average, you could New York to Los Angeles, on a train for about It's worth noting that freight rail prices In most European countries, for example, they're In comparison to those four cents per mile, 121 cents per ton-mile or 75 cents per ton-kilometer to the railways. Planes will tend to carry time-sensitive or or less time-sensitive goods. The true competitor to trains are trucks which cents or 13 cents per ton-kilometer. This is noticeably higher but trucks, of course, Trains can only go where there are tracks. Now, the reason why trains are so cheap is than trucks. In 2017, Union Pacific railroad, as an example, That's the total number of miles multiplied To do that, they used just over 1 billion average, only one gallon of fuel to move one That's far more efficient than a truck. The reason behind this is simple--trains Their smooth steel wheels run over smooth compared to rubber truck tires running over In addition, since the train's just one per ton than a truck. A single locomotive uses huge amounts of fuel can therefore pull a huge number of cars. On average, in the US, freight trains are They can get far longer, though. In Canada, Canadian National regularly runs It would take nearly an hour to walk from Typically, it also only takes two people to Considering that most trucks take one person can carry hundreds, it's easy to see the In some cases, freight trains are even run Of course there are plenty of safety concerns doing so as it cuts down on cost. Overall, what this means is that freight trains and environmentally to other means of land Within the cab of a locomotive, there's a few seats, and a small lavatory. There are no beds or other accommodations that long. Every driver and conductor in a company works route so for longer runs, such as BNSF's it takes 10 different crews to make the trip. The first takes the train from Seattle to another crew that takes it to Spokane, Washington, itself in Whitefish, Havre, Glasgow, Minot, before the train arrives in Chicago. In most cases crews will typically live at to the other end, stay in a hotel overnight, of a train headed back to where they live. Now, under US law, each crew is only allowed needing a rest period and so these territories be completed in those twelve hours. For longer sections, though, like the 276 Minot, there's increased risk of timing If a train crew reaches twelve hours, they and wait until another crew arrives. Typically the railroad will drive out a relief to take over. Now, there are two major types of cargo transported Bulk cargo is things like grain, stone, sand, Coal, along with most bulk cargo, is not a to get a lot. In the US, a ton of coal costs only $34, on on the lowest cost transport method possible Trains both serve to bring coal from the mine plants, and to coastal ports to be loaded The other major type of freight, intermodal, to and from their destinations. Generally trains will carry these containers For example, a container might be picked up by truck to the port of Shenzhen, loaded on a train to Omaha, Nebraska, before being loaded Norfolk, Nebraska. Generally railroads will have their intermodal loaded, spread out about 300-500 miles or the greatest area can be reached within a Given the lackluster nature of the US's the country's freight railway system is The country is just in that sweet spot of the use of freight trains. It therefore serves as a good example to examine The US' network is quite extensive. As an example, Kansas, whose entire passenger rail network of this. What helps is that in most countries the government usage and freight operators pay to use them. In the US, though, it's the other way around--in operators and the government pays them to Through many years of consolidation seven America each with their own territory--Union National, Canadian Pacific, and Kansas City With the exception of Canadian National, none a single operator could not get freight from Now, take a look at this BNSF train. You'll notice at the end it's hauling That's because, since no one railroad covers together to get freight to its final destination. A container traveling from Oakland, California would be first brought by truck to Lathrop, It would then be taken off the truck and loaded After passing through the western United States then be removed, hauled short-distance from placed on a CSX train since Chicago is as That train would then take it to Kearny, New then be loaded on another truck to take it This is already complicated but it can get Sometimes different railroads don't partner certain origin-and-destination pairs. Chicago, for example, has dozens of different in order to to get a container through one the city, then book a transfer by truck from then book separately the next train out of This increases complexity enormously and it's to make the short cross-town trip especially in the US. Many of these complexities are handled by the movement of their freight but these interchanges There is this constant battle between the Hired rail lobbyists in the US constantly Congress from increasing weight and size limits With a nearly global shortage of truck drivers, now and many are thriving. New railroads are constantly under construction and the industry is growing. It's not completely safe, though. The advent of driverless trucks will surely industry which could tilt favor over to the In addition, coal is one of the most commonly world transitions towards renewable energy, Overall, though, at least until there's trains will continue to be the proven method If you want to learn how to make videos just have to learn. You'll have to learn how to write nonfiction Skillshare has a class for that. You'll have to learn how to record good Skillshare has a class for that. You'll have to learn how to edit audio. Skillshare has a class for that. You'll have to learn how to animate. Skillshare has a class for that. In fact, if there's something you want to Skillshare has a class for that. You can take the classes on your computer, with their app so you can learn whatever, Best of all, you can start learning with Skillshare first 500 to sign up at skl.sh/wendover5.