It all starts with a mock trial. On July 18, 1979, in a Baghdad conference room , Saddam Hussein gathered Baath Party delegates to seize power and eliminate traitors to his cause. The list of culprits is read aloud. All present know the sentence; no one dares to face Saddam's gaze . Saddam told them: I recognize a traitor in his eyes. Haitham Rachid Wihaib. For thirteen years, from 1980 to 1993, he was responsible for Saddam Hussein's Protocol. I look into the eyes of a traitor, and I recognize that he has betrayed me, or that he seeks to harm me. So, I act. His government had around 200 senior officials. It was his first meeting as president of Iraq. Among these men, there were 21 he distrusted. He gets up, walks in front of them, all smiles, a big cigar between his fingers, visibly enjoying himself a lot, and begins to list everyone present: &quot;Is Ahmed [arhmed] a conspirator? No. Mahmoud [marhmoud] ] is he a conspirator? Yes. And there, two gorillas from Security seize Mahmoud and drag him out. Zoher Yahia! Not the one who is sick, but the one who is among you. Once these twenty-one men have been taken away, Saddam stands up and declares: &quot;I congratulate you on your loyalty, and to reward you, tomorrow at dawn, it is you who will form the platoon which will execute these traitors.&quot; That's the kind of words that make you pay attention! It's better not to arouse suspicion, otherwise... you'll lose your mind! What Saddam ignores that day, while he plays the roles of judge and accuser, is that all the images are finally overtaken by a single law: that of the victors. Twenty-four years later, Saddam Hussein will wait in a cell, under American guard, for the time of his own trial. In a court of law, he should not be found not guilty by reason of insanity... Jerrold Post. A psychiatrist, he was the founder and director, for twenty-one years, of the psycho-political research service of the CIA. He is notably the author of a curious report on the psychological profile of Saddam, a report which he submitted to the judges in charge of the trial. Rather, it should be said: "Lock him in a cell and throw away the key." Live from Washington, the latest report. Ladies and gentlemen, we got it! It was with these words that Ambassador Paul Bremer announced the capture of Saddam Hussein on Sunday in Baghdad. At the White House, the president also spoke on this subject. Good riddance ! The world is better off without you, Mr. Hussein. Interestingly , you dug a hole and crawled in. But our brave soldiers have found you and you will be brought to justice. Go on talk. I am Saddam Hussein, the president of Iraq, and I want to negotiate. He was told that it was up to President Bush to decide. Since Saddam Hussein's arrest, most of the events leading up to his trial took place in the shadows. In a few months, insecurity, fear, calculations and secrecy have woven a web whose threads remain invisible. To ensure his defense, Saddam appointed a lawyer from the Baghdad bar: Khalil Al Doulaimi. He will agree to talk about his role, but we will only see a profile of him in the darkness. In Baghdad, he was the victim of attacks several times. God gave me the courage to fight and I defend a just cause. By defending Mr. President, I am defending my country. On the prosecution's side, precisely three days before Saddam's capture, a Special Iraqi Tribunal was formed to bring him and his accomplices to justice. Judges are appointed. Apart from the one in charge of Saddam's hearings, Rahed Juhi, everyone will officiate in the greatest secrecy and under high protection. In Baghdad, for supporters of the old regime, these judges are a priority target. Two of them finally agreed to comment on their task. Words, but nameless and faceless. Many have sacrificed their lives to ensure a better future for us. Why would I run away to my duty? Behind the shadow of Khalil Al Doulaimi, it is not Baghdad that appears, but Amman, the capital of Jordan. At the beginning of this story, it is in a building in the western district of the city that the committee which brings together all the lawyers responsible for defending Saddam sits. Ziad Al Khasawneh, a Jordanian lawyer, is its leader. His office houses the committee's activities. In Baghdad, Khalil Al Doulaimi follows the directives of Ziad Al Khasawneh. But the Jordanian lawyer and the defense committee depend on a sponsor who escapes all eyes. This sponsor is a woman: her name is Raghad, Raghad Hussein. She is Saddam's eldest daughter. Since the fall of her father, she has lived in exile in the Jordanian capital. The mandate available to the lawyers was signed by her, by her two sisters, and by Saida, Saddam's wife. But faced with lawyers, whether from the East or the West, it is Raghad who imposes himself and who decides. Later, as in a story that never ceases to surprise, this first group of defenders whom she solicited and pampered, will learn to know Saddam's favorite daughter and the bitter scent of disgrace. As for the judges of the Iraqi Special Court, a host of images echo their silhouettes. There is insecurity reigning in the country. There is the enormous work of investigation, including that of collecting evidence. There are the victims and their demands. But above all there is the question that haunts this affair: are these magistrates and this court, and will they be the true masters of the trial? Here is one of the future court rooms. We plan to seat the magistrates at the back. The other members of the court will be in front, protected by armored glass. So by what authority will he be judged? For the moment, no one knows. Emmanuel Ludot, French lawyer, member of Saddam Hussein's defense committee. And behind the question: "By what authority will he be judged?", there is another question which is simpler and more practical: Is there a court? And is this court composed of judges? Are there judges? The Iraqi Special Court was created by the US administrator in Iraq, Ambassador Paul Bremer. Michael Scharf, professor of international law in the United States, was hired by the American Department of Justice to contribute to the training of judges for the Iraqi Special Court. Then, it was ratified by the provisional government. And normally, the new government should also approve the statutes. The first stage was a stage which began in 2002... Cherif Bassiouni, he is the key man to understand the origin and behind the scenes of the Iraqi Special Tribunal, the TSI Professor and expert in international law , he was notably the one of the designers of the International Criminal Court in The Hague, the tribunal on Rwanda and the one responsible for trying Milosevic. Very early on, Cherif Bassiouni was asked to design a jurisdiction adapted to the case of Saddam Hussein. He is therefore one of those who know best the tribunal finally established. His freedom of mind and his probity earned him often difficult relations with the American administration, as with the Iraqi government. The first step was a step that began in 2002 when the United States Department of State created a group called The Future of Iraq, which was a group of about a hundred Iraqis who came from all countries in the world, expatriates, very few from the United States. They were divided into groups which dealt with constitutional, economic, social issues . I was the person who had the official title of consultant, that is to say the facilitator, the organizer of the group which dealt with legal questions. At this point in the story, two key figures from a large Iraqi Shiite family will enter the scene: Ahmed Chalabi, the uncle, and his nephew, Salem Chalabi. Among the members of our groups, was the young jurist Salem Chalabi, the nephew of Ahmed Chalabi, who is now vice-president and who, at the time of the adoption of the TSI in Decree No. 48, developed the status of the court. Salem Chalabi is the nephew of an even better known man, Ahmed Chalabi, then head of the Iraqi National Congress. Noah Feldman, professor of law at New York University. He was an advisor to the coalition in Iraq, on questions of justice and constitutional law. Ahmed, the uncle, played a central role in convincing the United States to go to war against Iraq. History will remember that it was Ahmed Chalabi, more than anyone else, who was at the origin of this situation. I am the best friend of the Americans in Iraq. Mr. Salem Chalabi, who is a young American lawyer who works in England, a specialist in commercial matters, did not have much knowledge of criminal legal matters and Iraqi matters, which is why the statute was written in the language English and by mixing a little the conceptions of the American accusatory system with the Iraqi inquisitorial system which is adopted from the Egyptian system and, in turn, from the French system. So let's say the statute itself or the law itself leaves a lot to be desired and we'll talk about that later. My dear colleague Cherif Bassiouni, also a professor at the American University of Paw, first worked on the idea of responsibility, and submitted several proposals for the operation of the TSI. However, the one that was finally selected was very different from his. As a result, as a reaction, he strongly opposed the new Iraqi Special Tribunal, and distanced himself. The original draft of this working group was prepared by me with a view to submitting it to the Security Council to establish a tribunal similar to the International Criminal Tribunal for Yugoslavia or for Rwanda. And I took, for the statute of the TSI, the definition of the crimes of genocide, crimes against humanity and war crimes, which are the definitions that we find in the statutes of the International Criminal Court that the States- United refuse to recognize and still fight. Saddam had charisma; he looked you straight in the eyes, and he was delighted when you looked down at them. He took it as a sign of respect, regardless of the people he had in front of him. We were inspired by the statutes of the International Criminal Court, but also by Iraqi legislation. Thus, and this is a central point, the sentences are taken from Iraqi legislation. On top of that, they said, &quot;Here, we have established all the internal rules and, in case we need other rules, we should go find them in the Iraqi criminal procedure code of 1971.&quot; So, if we go to the penal code of 71, we find many things which are in complete contradiction with what we find in the statute of this court. The fundamental reason for the international community's withdrawal was the insistence of both the Iraqis and the Americans that the death penalty could be applied during Saddam's trial. There is a broad international consensus against the death penalty, but Iraq still has it, and so does the United States. They therefore decided what a national but "internationalized" court would be. This is a sort of new creature in international law. It is neither an international tribunal nor a mixed tribunal as in Sierra Leone, but an internationalized national tribunal. Those who wrote the statute, whether it was Mr. Salem Chalabi or others from the United States Department of Justice, did not really understand the system well and wanted to try to make things coexist that cannot not coexist. Ultimately, Salem Chalabi's tenacity will be rewarded. He is designated to direct and coordinate the action of the Iraqi Special Tribunal which will judge Saddam and his co-defendants. I am not a judge. I direct the court's action, I coordinate everything. Seven judges and five prosecutors, appointed last week, will begin collecting evidence. The instruction can last several months. As for his uncle, Ahmed Chalabi, his journey is in truth more complex than it seems. Settled in the United States at the end of the years 80, Ahmed Chalabi and his opposition party to Saddam Hussein were first financially supported by the CIA, then by the Pentagon. In the fall of 2001, Donald Rumsfeld created a new intelligence agency within the Ministry of Defense : the Office of Special Operations. This is placed under the responsibility of the Undersecretary for Defense Policy, Douglas Feith. The objective is to provide the Bush government with the evidence necessary to justify military intervention in Iraq. The collection of information, which will feed into the evidence scenario, is entrusted to Ahmed Chalabi. Douglas Feith is both his political ally but also his supervisor. Iraq continues to threaten us and support terrorism. I will not stand by while danger approaches. The United States will not let the most dangerous regimes threaten us with the world's most destructive weapons. Later, Ahmed Chalabi would win a prominent political position in post-Saddam Iraq. His nephew, Salem Chalabi, while striving to make the most of his uncle's career, will experience some difficulty reconciling his passion for business and his role as coordinator of the Iraqi Special Court. Shortly after his appointment, various setbacks led him to abandon his post and leave Iraq for an unknown destination. On July 1, 2004, six months after his arrest, Saddam Hussein was subjected to a first hearing led by a judge of the Iraqi Special Court, Judge Rahed Juhi. All observers then noticed the pugnacity of the ex-Rais. Saddam Hussein Al Majid. President of the Republic of Iraq. You were born in 1937, right? Exact. Profession: former president of the Republic of Iraq. I still am ! By the will of the people. President of the Disbanded Revolutionary Command. Head of the Pan-Arab Council of the Baath Party. Place of residence: Iraq. Every Iraqi house can be mine. This appearance was wanted by the Americans, and I think... we strongly believe that the Americans had a more precise strategy than that that day. He was taken out of his cell and presented to a young judge for notice of charges. First of all, it was a procedure which was an American-style procedure, a procedure which, in the American trial, a person is brought before a magistrate to tell him roughly, you are accused of this and that, that are you pleading? You plead guilty or not guilty and then it's over. It was a public relations operation. It was obvious then that this was the weak point, that sovereignty was supposed to pass from the occupying authority to the provisional government. They therefore wanted to show that it was not a puppet government, that sovereignty had really been transferred. What was very interesting is that, most people didn't notice it, but you can see in the film that, to the left of the prosecutor, there was a copy of the Iraqi criminal procedure code from 1971 So, if anyone knows the Iraqi legal system, they say, &quot;but how come they have the criminal procedure code that doesn't provide for this kind of procedure?&quot; So, it was already in itself let's say a very visible demonstration of the fact that the objective was not so much Iraqi legal. We had information according to which the Americans were to have Saddam's resistance capacities gauged and to see if it would not be possible immediately after the notification of the charges to try him, by going to find a puppet lawyer in Baghdad, to condemn him and to shoot him straight away. It's a bit like Ceausescu jurisprudence if you like. At first, Saddam was a little disoriented, he didn't know what to expect. But as soon as he started to compose himself and got used to his surroundings, he went on the attack. The law ? What law? The one with which you accuse me, while the Kuwaitis said they would put the Iraqi women on the sidewalk? I defended the honor of the Iraqis and their historical rights against these dogs! Very cleverly, he said to this young judge, &quot;Who are you, in the first place?&quot; and he points at him and says, &quot;you're nothing at all, I'm the president of Iraq and I'm the president of the Iraqis and I don't recognize you as the court.&quot; "Besides, according to the temporary Iraqi constitution of 1970, as head of state, I have complete immunity, what do you have to talk to me?" We could see that he understood that the hearing would be televised and that for the first time since his capture, he had the opportunity to address the Iraqi people themselves. There are images that are transcribed all over the world, we see it practically with a slight delay of a few minutes, no more, and therefore, it is out of the question to carry out the attack that we did to Ceausescu because the The blow that was done to Ceausescu was an American blow, you should know, it was the Americans who had this idea of shooting him behind a wall half an hour after having judged him. So that's no longer possible, so we're going backwards. I think he had already won the upper hand in this reaction and that already tells us something about what I think he's going to do at his trial itself. Saddam never listened to anyone, that's for sure. He never had an advisor for anything, and he was always very proud, once he had made his decision, of never going back on it. The rules of judicial procedure stipulate that the court must authorize the lawyer... He is one of the magistrates selected to serve on the Iraqi Special Court. ... to accompany the accused from the start of the investigation to the Court of Cassation. But to this day, to my great regret, we have not had any authorization. Ziad Al Nadjawi, Jordanian lawyer, member of Saddam Hussein's Defense Committee. They refused any visiting rights to the lawyers. Ramsey Clark, one of Saddam Hussein's defenders. He served as Justice Minister under President Johnson. His links with the far left, as with the far right, make him a formidable and controversial figure. He has a major advantage over his other defense colleagues: on several occasions in the past, he met Saddam who has esteem and confidence in him. No one was able to see Saddam Hussein - not his lawyers, not his family or his friends. Person. And they recognize it. Currently, lawyers are attending the investigation and none of them has denounced any violation of the procedural rules. Only one lawyer was authorized to meet Saddam: Master Khalil Al Doulaimi. And we know that he suffered searches and attacks by American forces. Ahmed Al Nadjawi. Jordanian lawyer, member of Saddam Hussein's Defense Committee. What kind of justice is this? The Americans signaled to the Iraqi soldiers to let me pass. Six American vehicles were waiting, one with tinted windows and the other five for protection. An officer motioned for me to get into the first one. Once there, I was put through a hose measuring 4 meters in diameter and 25 meters long. In the main room, I saw five officers whose rank I don't know. They forbade me from kissing or hugging the president. I could just shake his hand. When the president entered, I gave the military salute. I kissed and hugged him, then we sat down. He was wearing a black jacket, shirt and pants. He had a coat on his right arm. He put it on the table, then started talking. He began by reciting a poem. A poem of his composition: &quot;If you can't be at the front Don't hang around at the back &quot;Because you won't be able to do anything&quot;. Then we talked about the political situation. He had been locked up for a year and a half in a cell with no other opening than a door monitored by the Americans. He had no television, no radio, no newspapers. He didn't know what was happening outside. Subsequently, Khalil Al Doulaimi remained the only lawyer on the Committee who was able to meet Saddam Hussein on a few occasions, in his cell or during hearings conducted by the court. We could go that way, but it's a bit dark. There's not much left standing. Be careful when going up, this is the only ramp you have. Saddam wanted all Iraqis to see his portrait. One day when he was visiting Morocco, he was very proud when he was told that many Moroccans preferred to hang his portrait rather than that of King Hassan II... Or that in Jordan, many families hung his portrait rather than that of King Hussein. It made him happy. Finally, the TSI was officially created on December 10, 2003, in a hybrid and controversial form. But, as in any trial, that of Saddam Hussein will pit two groups of lawyers against each other. Some will represent the defense, others, the victims. Abdulrahman Zibari is one of the Iraqi lawyers mandated by the Special Court to represent victims of Saddam's regime. He is in charge of the Arbil district. He is the only representative of the civil parties to have agreed to testify about his task openly. For him, preparing for the trial means receiving each victim and developing a file that he will send to the court judges. Name ? Hama Tawfik Souleiman Do you have your identity card? Hama Tawfik Souleiman Hussein! Date of birth ? My God, I don't know anymore. 1914! All right. Are you a victim of the Anfal campaign? During Saddam Hussein's regime, 10 Kurds were murdered and more than 4,500 of their villages were destroyed. 20 Shiites were massacred. In addition to these deaths, more than 20 Iraqis have disappeared. 90 people were forcibly displaced or interned in camps. The Iran-Iraq war left between 50 and 70 victims. Over the past 3 years, nearly 300 mass graves have been discovered throughout the country. Are you filing a complaint? Yes. Against Saddam Hussein and his collaborators? That's it. Meanwhile in Amman, Saddam Hussein's defense lawyers hold a meeting. On this occasion, the son of Tarek Aziz, Saddam's former Minister of Foreign Affairs, gave them a handwritten note that his father, detained with Saddam and the 10 other accused, was able to smuggle out of prison in Baghdad. Despite the apparent good humor, this word raises their concern: it underlines the total isolation of the detainees. Each of the lawyers present realizes how futile their task seems. Tarek Aziz's text fits into a few hastily written lines on a diary page - "We have been in prison for a long time, cut off from our families. Without contacts, without telephone, without letters. We are not given the packages that our families send us. We need proper treatment, proper education and a fair trial. Please help us. >> If this text troubles the lawyers, it is above all because it reminds them how improbable access to their own client, Saddam Hussein, seems. You stayed in Taq-Taq for two days before going to prison. How did they treat you? We didn't stay long at Taq-Taq. They just searched us and took everything we had, then we left... I spent a month and a half in prison. I had nothing to eat, I lacked everything. Among the guards there was a man named Hidjaj. a cursed criminal who beat everyone, even the blind and the old. With what ? With cables. Cables ? Yes, or with his own hands. What did he expect from you? Nothing, he was crazy. The woman who was with me was beaten to death with cables. She is dead ? Yes. You saw it ? He killed her. And the body? They threw him into a pit and the dogs ate him. There was a whole pack. They were hungry. Were there dogs too? Yes, full. Whatever the circumstances, the Iraqi people cannot turn a blind eye to the crimes of which they have been victims. Crimes of such barbarity. This is why this tribunal would have been created no matter what. All those who oppose the IHT, including Saddam's lawyers, are already saying, and will say at the hearing, that since the war against Iraq was not approved by the UN Security Council, it transgresses international law. Therefore, any tribunal created subsequently must be illegal. Our main objective regarding the president is to demonstrate the illegitimacy of this court and to denounce it. The laws promulgated by Bremer are, of course, inadmissible, since, in the eyes of the law, anything that falls outside the legal framework is illegitimate. First point: we will base ourselves on the provisional Constitution, which grants the president total immunity for everything he does in the exercise of his functions. For them, only a trial in accordance with Iraqi legislation would be admissible, and for good reason: Saddam had adopted a text exonerating him from all prosecution. We, members of the Defense Committee, say that whatever the circumstances, we cannot judge President Saddam, that he must be released immediately and reinstated in his functions. The so-called lawyer Ziad Al Khasawneh... ... immediately transformed his defense into propaganda, not for the accused Saddam Hussein or the other accused, but for a fallen regime, a regime known for its brutality. The second part of our defense will focus on the illegality of the aggression committed by American-British forces against Iraq. Let us remember, without wanting to be controversial, that the invasion by the Americans and the British of Iraq is an act of war which has no basis in international law. Well, it was done without a UN mandate and without, how should I put it, in violation of international rules. The Arabs are not the only ones to say this. Europeans say it too, and other peoples around the world. Even if it were admitted that this war was illegal, it is over and the new government is a fait accompli. Therefore, under international law, this tribunal is legitimate. In my opinion, the third point is the most important. Saddam Hussein was captured not by court order, but by an abuse of power by the Americans. One of Saddam's defenders is Ramsey Clark, former US Attorney General, who also represented Milosevic - not at trial, outside. The first thing he did in the Milosevic affair was to challenge the legitimacy of the court in the media. He did not do it to win the trial, but to discredit the TPI in the eyes of public opinion. And I think he's going to do the same thing again. How can we talk about sovereignty and independence when the "yankees" arrive and impose their constitution? The United States inflicted the cruelest treatment on Iraq in modern history. Twelve years of sanctions have killed a million and a half Iraqis, half of whom were children under the age of five. And they are the ones who are going to dictate their constitution to the Iraqis because they are incompetent? The man named Rams Clark, or Ramsey Clark, who is of American nationality, we know him well, we judges and Iraqi citizens. We have known him since the reign of Saddam Hussein and the Iran-Iraq war. He was an ardent defender of all the acts of the old regime. He is accused by the Iraqis of having regularly received commissions taken from the country's oil revenues. We respect anyone who defends Saddam Hussein. For what ? Because it helps to make this court more equitable. This former Minister of Justice could inform us and enlighten us so that our verdict is as fair as possible. In Nuremberg, U.S. Attorney Robert Jackson called the entire tribunal together at the start of the trial and told them, &quot;Let us remember that the defendants will be judged on the same evidence that will be used to judge us.&quot; We must remain honest, because if we are not honest in historic trials like this, it is victor's justice, a lynching. My question is: why does the United States refuse to recognize the International Criminal Court? It is one of the rare states to refuse this. No doubt he does not want his agents and soldiers to be judged by an international tribunal. I think that if I were on the defense side, that's what I would do, I would create continual confusion, I would object to anything, I would continue to make things very difficult with the aim of provoke the judges in such a way that the judges lose patience and to show that the judges who have lost patience are not impartial judges and to play the political card, the big fair card, to turn this court into big fair. The importance of Saddam's trial is not about him or his team. Our goal... is to fight the ideology, mentality and destructive approach of one of the worst tyrants in history. In the heart of the protected zone of Baghdad, the green zone, it is in a former Saddam palace, completely renovated, that the TSI and its 49 judges will sit. So, where do these judges come from? It's not complicated. They were recruited by the Americans, they were trained by the Americans and they are and it is not at all excessive or arbitrary on my part to say that they are stamped CIA. The interim government, the Iraqi Bar Association and the US Liaison Office on Saddam's Crimes interviewed each of the judges and checked their CVs. And they ultimately selected 49 to serve on the Iraqi Special Court. And we find that politicians have also chosen a number of magistrates who are lawyers and who are not authorized to practice the legal profession. So, this is an absolutely incomprehensible micmac and there was really no reason for this micmac to happen this way. I worked as a lawyer in central Iraq for 36 years. After passing a competitive examination, I served as a judge until my appointment to the Special Court by decision of the Council of Ministers. None of these magistrates had been members of the Baath party, since the statutes of the TSI prohibit it. They are, in a way, small, anonymous judges who dealt with routine disputes, and who were never noticed by the regime. They know the law and applied it without having been influenced by Saddam Hussein. Probably, most of these will have had in their career the criminal experience of a theft, perhaps even a murder, this is a completely different dimension from the massive dimension that such a trial could have. How do you expect these judges to have new clothes? Good. They all either have something to be forgiven by Saddam Hussein, to be thanked or to be given an account or to give accounts or settle scores. I cannot respond to the accusations that are being made against me everywhere. My profession is the judiciary and my temperament is that of a judge. I am not a simple performer and I do not serve anyone. These judges and this government, which were put in place by the occupiers, do not have the capacity to conduct a trial of this magnitude. The proof is... that most judges are young and inexperienced. This is not true at all. And I'm here to prove it: I'm approaching 71 years old and I finished my law studies half a century ago. Most of the judges are graying gentlemen - there are two women too - who come from the four corners of the country: there are Kurds, Shiites and Sunnis. All ethnicities and religions are represented, and they have good experience in relatively complicated cases. The youngest is only 36 years old - it was Judge Raed Al-Juhi, in charge of the investigation, who presided over Saddam's hearing. He is a leader, he has charisma and very contagious human warmth. According to my information, Rahed Juhi joined the Iraqi judicial system in 1999, by decision of the legitimate president of Iraq, Saddam Hussein. He was appointed after the invasion and following the arrest warrant he issued against Moqtada Al Sadr. "The Americans considered him suitable to be a judge. They believed, as an occupying force, that it was capable of carrying out the investigation against the legitimate Iraqi leaders and their leader, President Saddam Hussein. "But is Rahed Juhi qualified to be a judge? Everywhere, judges are chosen for their impartiality, their probity and their knowledge. However, these qualities are lacking in the judges of this court. The proof is that the United States and Great Britain sent 42 Iraqi magistrates for a few weeks' training in England in order to speed up the creation of the court. The RCLO, the American Office of Criminal Investigation into Saddam's regime, called me from Baghdad - it's funny because I had the impression that they were talking to me next door, the telephone connections are very good right now between Iraq and the United States - and I was told: &quot;Would you like to go to London to help us train the judges of the Iraqi Special Court?&quot; I answered them: &quot;You know that I have been very critical of this court because, like Cherif Bassiouni of DePaul University in Chicago and others, I think that it does not is not fair and international enough. They told me: &quot;We understand, we don't want people to be under our orders but independent experts who know the law to help us train these judges.&quot; It is reasonable to assume that all of these people, whoever they are, have the same mentality as those who waged the war of aggression against Iraq, people like Vice President Cheney, Wolfowitz, Richard Perle. The usual suspects. They asked me to do a series of training sessions on the law that these judges will have to apply: what is genocide, what are its limits ; what is war crime, crime against humanity, crime of aggression. What training do they receive? Opinions on international law differ widely, and the United States has a very particular conception of it. They consider themselves above international laws and not subject to them. These judges are therefore primarily trained by partisan sources. I was giving lectures in the morning, which were interpreted consecutively, I would speak and an interpreter would then translate what I said, and hopefully everything was understood correctly. Then, in the afternoon, we did simulations in small groups. In my opinion, the few training courses they had are very superficial, well they are sort of seminars to discuss what is it It's just the elements of crimes against humanity or war crimes or things like that. We created a fictional country divided into a northern part and a southern part. We imagined that there was an insurrection in the South of the country. These inhabitants essentially derive their livelihood from the marshes that surround them, the North then decides to build dams to drain the region, claiming that its goal is to dislodge the insurgents from their hiding places in the marshes in order to put an end to the insurrection. But in practice, the result is that hundreds of thousands of southerners are forced to leave their homes, many of them dying and the region is wiped out. The question that then arises is: is this a genocide? This is a difficult question because if the intention was to kill the swamp people because of their "swamp dweller" ethnicity, then that is genocide. But if the intention was simply to subdue the insurgents and force them from their hideouts, then it might be a crime against humanity or even a war crime but not the ultimate crime that is the genocide. Simulations of this kind allowed the judges to understand these distinctions, which will be crucial during the trial of Saddam Hussein. To support the work of the tribunal, the American administration created an investigative structure responsible for collecting evidence demonstrating crimes committed under Saddam's regime. Investigations and research focus in particular on the numerous mass graves where the victims of mass executions, most often Kurds or Shiites, were buried. Press trips are organized to the sites of these exhumations. These images taken under control will be the only ones available to allow the press to inform and investigators to communicate. We make a very precise survey, we take out the bodies and we examine them carefully with the aim of a trial. The United States wanted to provide assistance to this tribunal which is in reality a tribunal born from the thinking of the United States. And they established within the Department of Justice an office called the Regime Crime Liaison Office which contains a number of officials from former US prosecutors, former FBI officials or investigators and others, and other forensic experts who on the one hand try to provide training to their Iraqi colleagues, on the other hand they are the ones who collect the evidence, who prepare the trials, who do all the infrastructure work. In this image, the man in the cap is the one who will direct the RCLO: the criminal investigation liaison office for several months. His name is Greg Kehoe. They do the job as well as they can, a little in the shadows so as not to show the American fingerprints on the trial. And what is difficult to keep secret, you see, it is known. They are the ones who have the resources, who have the money, who have the skills. Greg Kehoe is a US Attorney from Florida. In his career, we note that he was also part of the team of prosecutors of the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia. In Baghdad, Greg Kehoe leads the RCLO with an expert hand. The question of the proper implementation of the Iraqi Special Tribunal is one of his constant concerns. Here is one of the future court rooms. We plan to seat the magistrates at the back. The difficulty is that most of these advisors do not speak Arabic, while the documents are almost exclusively in Arabic and some testimonies will be in Kurdish. This makes it very difficult for them to collect evidence and pass it on to the Iraqis. It would be much more effective to leave this task to the Iraqis, as is also provided for in the statute of the tribunal. We are at the site of a mass grave of Saddam Hussein's victims. There are dozens of other mass graves and the victims are often Kurds or Shiites. Iraqi law prohibits opening individual or collective graves without the approval of a judge. Once we obtained this authorization, as part of Saddam Hussein's trial, we requested judges specialized in the exhumation of corpses. Then we work with them. We should start digging at the end of the mass grave, that is to say here... Until then. A bulldozer has already passed through here. The earth is friable and that is what aroused our suspicions. Normally it should be much more compact. They dug the pit bulldozed and threw the people still alive inside. Then they killed them. I believe that most of the Iraqi magistrates who participate in this tribunal have demonstrated great moral courage in wanting to participate and they would like to be the bosses of the thing but I think that they do not feel able to be so. If these images are to be believed, the American RCLO investigators are fully playing their role. At first glance, they show their efficiency at work. But they also carry information in their margins that could go unnoticed... Among the journalists, we can see a man in a black suit who observes and takes notes , like them, but who his job secretly separates from the rest of the group. This man in a black suit is Rahed Juhi, the first investigating judge of the Iraqi Special Court. The judges who will render the final verdict will be, officially, independent of the United States. But they will not be completely independent of the Iraqi government. The Iraqi government, for its part, will maintain close ties with the United States because there will still be, at the time of Saddam's trial, many American soldiers in Iraq. As a result, the court will be seen as having ties to the United States, which, in some sense, will indeed be the case. In Baghdad, the headquarters of the Iraqi Special Court is a secret and highly protected location. Only a few American television channels were able to film it. Each time, in the short sequences available, it is Greg Kehoe who plays the role of guide, almost master of the place. Here, the character following the guide is Rahed Juhi. During his long mission, Greg Kehoe made sure to establish ongoing and cordial relations with him . I'm ready. You're ready ? So what about you ? Judge, I follow you! No ! We're a team, sir. It's true. We always team up. If someone was tortured, if someone was mistreated, that person is the first person to testify. But I don't see, for example, the current public prosecutor's office or the RCLO preparing witnesses. So, I think in my opinion, they prepare documentation more than anything else. So, imagine a trial that is actually a massive crime trial against a large number of victims in which the victim does not appear. There is not a human face. And then, necessarily, people will say, &quot;but where is the human face, where is the real victim? Who has an interest in this trial ? Why are we having this trial?&quot; And all of this will play into the hands of the defense. When ? When will that day come when I will witness the judgment of Saddam, Ali Hasan Al majid ? I will be a real witness, who lost six people from his family, I will tell them: you criminals, you without conscience, how could you make all these people disappear, what was the crime of a child of two years to send him to his death in the Anfal camps? If they ask me to testify at Saddam's trial, I will tell everything I know. He martyred us, betrayed us, and mistreated us. I have to testify at Saddam's trial. Since the arrest of Saddam Hussein, the charges have never been communicated precisely. Depending on the information sources, their number varies from 7 to 12. However, some will constitute the highlights of the trial: The assassination of Shiite religious dignitaries, in 1974. The massacre of 143 inhabitants of the Shiite village of Dujail, in 1982. The Anfal campaign of extermination carried out against the Kurds, between 1986 and 1988. The chemical gas attack on the town of Halabja, in 1988. The bloody repression of the Kurd and Shiite rebellions of 1991, following the first Gulf War . I am of the opinion that the charges were not formally formulated because the charges are formulated when the investigating judge finishes his investigation and draws up the charges, something which was not done. If we start speculating about the nature of the charges, we might as well work for the prosecution. I do not believe that there will be an accusation or an indictment that will contain the genocide because it is almost impossible to demonstrate that Saddam Hussein intended to eliminate a group of people. Genocide requires proof that an individual had specific intent to destroy an ethnic, racial, or religious group, in whole or in large part. He persecuted the Kurds. He killed them and made them disappear en masse. He also used chemical weapons with the aim of committing genocide against this race, against this people. To wipe it out as a nation. He also attacked the Shiites, because of their faith. It will be difficult to prove that it was genocide. In both cases there were insurgencies, in the north and south of Iraq. So Saddam Hussein will object: &quot;I was trying to suppress these uprisings, &quot;to put an end to terrorism.&quot; This is a speech close to that of the United States on the Afghan question or that of the new Iraqi government facing the insurgents. To understand the issues and difficulties linked to the accusation of genocide against Saddam Hussein, the tragedy suffered by the Kurdish population of Halabja probably constitutes the most significant circumstance. Do you have an identity document? What is your name? Saheb Kerim Letif. On the day of the bombings, were you in Halabja? Yes. It was March 16 at 11:10 a.m. What year? In 1988. At what time? At 11:10 a.m. Was it in the morning? Yes, that's it . In Halabja, commercial activity was in full swing on the day of the attack. This town normally has 0 inhabitants but on market days crowds of people come from Iran to do their shopping, it is a lively commercial hub , a pivotal point in economic life. There were therefore well over 0 people that day. Christine Gosden, head of the department of medical genetics at the University of Liverpool, and member of the Halabja Medical Institute. She devotes much of her time to studying the long-term effects of the Halabja bombings and treating the after-effects they left on many survivors. You have to take into account how things happened. Before the main attack with weapons of mass destruction, Iraqi planes bombed the city with conventional weapons so that people took refuge in the cellars. The only reason to do that was to prepare an attack with nerve gas and mustard, very heavy and very dense gases which infiltrated the cellars where the people had taken refuge, to kill them. On the day of the attack, there were around 45 planes. Knowing the Iraqi aviation, we know that each of these aircraft can transport at least four 250 kilo shells, which is one ton of chemical weapons per aircraft. This represents a huge amount of chemical agents. It is therefore not surprising that some 5,000 people died instantly. Tell us what happened? Many planes passed by. They were bombing us, but there was no explosion. When the bombs fell, we didn't hear &quot;boom&quot;, but &quot;pschitt&quot;. It didn't explode. Chemical bombs do not explode on the ground. They give off dust and perfume. What were you doing ? We took care of our nephew who was seriously injured during the 1st bombing. We weren't worried, we didn't know they were chemical weapons. The gas came up to our chest. Are you talking about the smoke? Yes, it smelled good. There were several flavors. Were the planes Iraqi? We saw the flag. They weren't flying high? No. Very low, on the contrary. And there was no resistance? The planes flew slowly and released mustard gas. One of the charges weighing on Saddam Hussein is indeed the gassing of the Kurds, which was very quickly described at the time as genocide. In the Halabja affair, we find people like Stephen Pelletiere, a high-ranking official rank who carried out an investigation. He wrote in the New York Times and spoke around the world to say that the Iraqi government was not responsible. On the Halabja case, the defense arguments call upon a curious character : Stephen Pelletiere, an American expert with an atypical background. The theses that he has been developing for several years on the subject of the bombing of this Kurdish city stem from a rather ambiguous approach. Stephen Pelletiere is a professor who worked on the American team charged by the Department of Defense with investigating the Halabja affair. But before holding a professorship at the United States Institute of Military Studies, Stephen Pelletiere was, from 1982 to 1988, director of the CIA's political analysis service on Iraq, and was particularly interested in the Iran-Iraq conflict. In a widely distributed report on the issue, he concluded that since the chemical weapons could not have come from the Iraqi arsenal, the attack on Halabja was therefore attributable to the Iranians. The US Military Intelligence Service carried out an investigation immediately after the battle. His conclusion was, after examining the corpses, that the Kurds were killed with a type of gas that the Iraqis did not have, while the Iranians did. Regarding Stephen Pelletiere's thesis that it was not the Iraqi government that gassed Halabja, we must examine the evidence supporting Iraq's culpability. First, claiming that it was Iran that launched the attack does not hold water because it was Iranian troops, supported by Kurdish guerrillas and the residents of Halabja, who recaptured the city from the Iraqis. Second, Iraq was carrying out a campaign of ethnic cleansing against the Kurds to punish them for siding with the Iranians towards the end of the Iran-Iraq War. It is said in this report that the gas used in Halabja is cyanide of the type used by the Iranian army. One of the so-called pieces of evidence is that it was cyanide and since the Iraqis did not have any, they were not guilty. However, it was not cyanide. You only need to leaf through a toxicology textbook to know that cyanide is not a gas that can be used in the open air. It is very effective in an enclosed space where it cannot evaporate, but it is not an outdoor weapon, any military expert could tell you that. I have reports in English in which it says that the gas has been assessed and that it is Iranian gas, period. So, let's not be accused of negationism when we defend Saddam Hussein, it's the American experts who say it loud and clear: it's not Saddam, it's the Iranians. Another problem concerns the appearance of the victims. Their lips and fingertips were blue. They were therefore described, which is normal, as being cyanotic. Which does not mean that they had been gassed with cyanide. Cyanide leaves its victims bright red. On the other hand, nerve agents give people blue lips. And there is evidence of the use, in other towns in northern Iraq, of nerve gas, which UN experts have established are typically Iraqi weapons. And then I'm going to tell you a secret, even if it might cost me. I was summoned by the Iranian embassy and the first thing they said to me at the Iranian embassy was &quot;how is Saddam? We, Iranians, are very worried on his health.&quot; I mean I heard the question, I held on to my chair to find out if I was dreaming. &quot;There we are, we are going to come to an agreement - the embassy told me - we are going to say that Saddam did not gas the Kurds, you will say that the Iranians did not gas the Kurds but we have a file to give you in which we have proof that it was the People's Mojahedin who gassed them. So, we will find a common responsible, it will be the People's Mojahedin, you will say that it is the People's Mujahidin, we will say that it is the People's Mujahidin and honor will be preserved. What do you think ?&quot; From time to time, it is useful to spread disinformation. It is a very complex matter involving many actors, but some governments and companies are known to have supplied weapons of this type to Saddam Hussein. UNSCOM has the list of suppliers, which include the American, British, French and German governments. These governments at least supplied the products to make these weapons. So there was a time when there was It was more convenient to pretend that these products had not been supplied to Saddam and to refrain from any serious investigation. But in the late 1980s, there was fear that Iran would invade its neighbors. So we supported Saddam Hussein and his government against Iranian incursions. Then, various groups keen to cover their tracks launched a disinformation campaign to hide their support for Saddam. At what point can we speak of genocide? I don't know, it's a legal question complex, but it is important that in court all these facts are carefully explained by indisputable organizations, and that United Nations reports, NGO testimonies and Iraqi government documents are taken into account. And there is no shortage of evidence. I have been here for five months in Bahia and I don't feel the effects of the war at all. When I was in France, I heard on the news about the war between Iraq and Iran, but here I don't realize it, I don't feel anything. Salute all brother officers and soldiers. Tell them to live up to what I, the Iraqis and the Arab nation expect of them. Yours ! I will convey your greetings, Commander. We are your soldiers and with God's help we will win. The next few days I want to hear good news, like we have always heard. Yours. During the Iran-Iraq war, we went to the front and he called his generals to ask them about the evolution of the situation at the front. He encouraged them and gave them advice even though he had no military training. He had never graduated from a military academy. But he wanted to show that as leader of the armies, he knew everything. How are you, Tarek? May God help you. And morale? How are you, Fawzi? The morale is good ? And your guys? They are fine ? Someone who must blame you told me they're not in great shape. During the defense presentation, if the case strategy is a historical case, thirty years of violation, it is clear that the defense is going to react in the sense of saying, &quot;well, you knew very well what we were doing for thirty years, you helped us, we bought from you, you knew what we were doing, what are you coming to tell us today?&quot; Bush father and son were involved in crimes on an international scale. I am convinced that one day they will be judged by an international tribunal. They may worry about what the documents will reveal about them, about the content of the meeting between Donald Rumsfeld and Saddam Hussein in the 1980s, about the reasons for the Iran-Iraq war, about the type of weapon that the States -United States supplied to Iraq. So, in this case, it will turn around, won't it, against the West, against the United States, England, Germany, Holland, France, Russia and other countries. The United States must understand that it will also find itself in the dock. So, I think the magistrates will try to limit that by saying that this type of defense is not allowed. They will try to limit the defense by saying, &quot;that's not allowed, it's not relevant. The fact that you bought these precursor materials from Germany or Holland to make chemical weapons, this is not a defense to the use of weapons. We accuse you of having used the weapons, not of having manufactured them.&quot; The only thing that matters is: &quot;Did you commit this crime or not?&quot; The judges of the Iraqi Special Court are therefore aware of this strategy, we worked with them during the training sessions on this point. I would like you to remember that you are judging on behalf of the people. I am not saying this because you have to judge me. The important thing is is that you do not forget that you are a judge. Yes, I am a judge. So do not refer to these forces that your people call &quot;occupying forces&quot;. I judge in the name of the people. Okay. I thinks that he will take a very active role in its defense given that he also has a degree in law, that he is a very clever political man. He is an intellectual. He drew his general culture from nationalist thought Arabic. If he is mentally healthy, he will have a lot of ideas about his defense, because he will know more than anyone. Therefore, even if he appears in court without a lawyer, he will take into account hand his defense. The judges made a decision that I personally advised them to do: I spent an hour explaining to them the dangers of the situation and they will make sure that Saddam gets legal representation. How will judges try to limit it? I don't know. He also has a very strong personality, he has a lot of charisma so he really risks winning in this game. Here, this is what I call the default mode of Saddam's psychology. We see him brandishing a rifle with an air of defiance, he is the basic Saddam. Then, just as dust returns to dust, we find him in a small hole dug in the ground. This is going to be a real problem, I've spoken to some members of the legal team who will be dealing with him and I've distributed the profile I wrote to them. It will be a trial like they have never known. No chance of this being a normal trial. The liberations of Afghanistan and Iraq will forever mark the history of freedom. Serving in the military is the noblest of commitments. Our enemies are cruel, but they are no match for the men and women of the United States military. God bless you ! During the eighteen months following Saddam Hussein's arrest, no one could know when the trial would begin. For both camps, the question of the date was the most unlikely and the least urgent. On July 7, 2005, in the ranks of the defense, Ziad Al Khasawneh, the Jordanian lawyer, resigned from his position as head of the Committee responsible for defending the former Rais. He criticizes Raghad for giving preference to American lawyers to the detriment of Arab defenders. A few weeks later, on August 7, 2005, Raghad suddenly decided to dissolve the Defense Committee and dismiss all the lawyers she had retained. All except Khalil Al Doulaimi, the Baghdad lawyer, the only one who was able to meet Saddam. From now on, proud of the confirmation of his role, he will choose to come out into the open. Discreetly, Raghad will set out to find a new list of defenders... On the prosecution's side, at the beginning of June 2005, the announcement of the trial was suddenly made at the initiative of the Iraqi government. The scenario of a major historic trial, under control, as desired by the American administration, is abandoned. Events then seem to prove Cherif Bassiouni's hypotheses correct. The best strategy, for example, could very well have been to choose a number of facts that are fairly well known where there are eyewitnesses who saw Saddam kill a person - and he did it several times - or give specific orders to kill a person. So, once we got to that and demonstrated that he gave ten, fifteen, twenty orders, that's enough, we don't need to find him guilty for more than twenty people he killed or ordered to be killed. But that doesn't accomplish a political goal. The political objective, whether it is the political objective of the Iraqi government or the political objective of the United States, is to demonstrate the extent of the evil of this regime, to demonstrate how according to the words very often used by the Bush administration this regime is evil, is bad. On July 17, 2005, judge Rahed Juhi pronounced the first official indictment against Saddam Hussein: it related to the massacre of 143 inhabitants of a Shiite village, Dujail, committed in 1982. Against all expectations, this charge, less heavy and simpler to demonstrate than all the others, will fuel a first trial. The verdict will undoubtedly result in the death penalty, but this first trial will offer an underlying advantage: neither the United States nor any other Western power will run any risk... As for the charges of genocide and crimes against humanity, the most embarrassing, we will of course talk about them, but the examination of the facts and their judgment will be postponed until later... Barely a few days after this first indictment, Ahmed Chalabi, our uncle from the beginning, who has since become vice-president Prime Minister, launches an offensive against the judges of the court whom he accuses of having been linked to Saddam Hussein's Baath. In truth, behind the scenes, the too hasty announcement of the imminence of the trial does not really suit the American administration. As for the various Iraqi political clans, they themselves are divided on the subject. During his attack on the court, Ahmed Chalabi directly targets Rahed Juhi, the first judge in charge of Saddam's hearings. At the precise moment when he suffered this setback, Rahed Juhi no longer appears in the images of these hearings. It is then another judge that we see facing Saddam. Rahed Juhi, a skillful maneuverer, will however be able to dodge the charge and will keep his rank within the court. Despite all the risks, this trial is the keystone of his future and his ambition. As the deadline for Saddam's trial draws near, at the beginning of September 2005, Raghad formed a new defense committee, this time taking over the presidency. Everything is happening as if Raghad now had to change the scenario, her husband, Hussein Kamel, having been assassinated on the orders of his father. Raghad now feels like he is the only person alive who can work for Saddam. Not for him personally, but for the Baath. We must not forget that the Baath Party committee wants to try to have her elected as the new leader of the party. This shows that she has political ambitions. But beyond all these adventures, what there was most to fear for the judges, for the Iraqi government, as for the American administration, was that Saddam would take charge of his own trial. Therefore, you accuse me as President of the Republic! I heard about this Halabja story through the media. This alleged attack on Halabja by Saddam Hussein's regime. For now, you are required to answer the questions. Earlier, you asked that the hearing be adjourned to speak in the presence of a lawyer. We have already addressed this question. Even if we repeat this in front of a lawyer, if I refuse to sign, the hearing will be postponed. And if you think I'm going to sign before the lawyers arrive, you're wrong. However, if the announcement of the trial suddenly got carried away, it was probably because the court had acquired a new certainty: Saddam would not be in control of his trial. Three hearings were recorded by the court and partially broadcast: On July 1, 2004, the available images lasted a few minutes and were accompanied by sound. On June 13, 2005, a year later, the images only last a few seconds and are silent. On July 21, 2005, about a month later, the images taken by the court were shown in the form of sound sequences but very brief. Between the first and the third hearing, one observation emerges: Saddam's behavior and abilities have clearly changed. To think that it's an Iraqi who accuses me! It's the law. The law ? What law? The one with which you accuse me, while the Kuwaitis said they would put the Iraqi women on the sidewalk? I defended the honor of the Iraqis and their historical rights against these dogs! Don't be insulting, you're in court. I know, and I take responsibility for everything I say! Incorrect comments are not allowed here. Very good. They say I'm indicted... But it's a farce, you'll find out later. I am told that I am accused by the Iraqi government established by the Americans. By the people! No. You are a man of the law, you understand these things. You can speak freely, in front of me or in front of anyone, in front of a foreigner or a local child. During this third recording, the look of Judge Munir Haddad shows that he is not fooled by Saddam's change. Shortly after this hearing, Munir Haddad gave an interview to the Al Arabiya channel. Saddam Hussein is one of the easiest customers. I interviewed 16 or 17 defendants and Saddam Hussein is the most accommodating of all. He is not talking about law, but rather politics. When do I see the lawyer? He's coming today. Didn't we warn you? Is that how it works with lawyers? Is that the law? The client only sees his lawyer during the hearing? The lawyer is not even informed that there is a hearing? Should I sign here? In these conditions, what will happen to the trial and, above all, why rush its announcement? The very images from the court suggest an answer. Saddam, thus diminished, will no longer present a real danger to anyone, neither to his enemies today nor to his allies of the past. Saddam is no longer the same. But only his victims will never stop seeing him as he was.