Hi, my name is Natee, and I'm from Thailand. Many a lot of trouble expressing myself in English. But And I managed to become fluent while living in from anywhere in the world. And in this video, let me tell you the most important secret. To knowledge in English. Let me repeat that. If you level of unconscious knowledge in English. So, ability to do something without conscious thought. For example, riding a bicycle, playing a musical Unconscious knowledge is automatic. To use the don't have to focus your attention on it. That's the same time. You don't have to focus on the on their own. It's also why musicians can sing and practice, the skill becomes automatic, and so the think about how you speak your first language. do you think about grammar rules? Do you No, you don't think about any of that, right? But your mouth is grammatically correct. Even though say makes sense grammatically. Why is that? Well, knowledge in your native language. So, if you want unconscious knowledge in English. If you do that, much like speaking your first language. So how do this is very difficult to do. The problem is It cannot be acquired through study. You can't grammar lessons on YouTube. If you do that, you conscious knowledge. This type of knowledge is not about it. You have to focus your attention on it. to think about grammar. You have to decide what work because when you're talking to someone, you other person says something to you or asks you a many people love studying grammar. They love adjectives, and so on. They believe that it realize is that the knowledge they gain through which is not very useful in spoken English. two parts of the brain: the conscious part and your first language, the conscious part focuses while the unconscious part focuses on the speak fluently. If you want to say something, you make sure that your speech follows the grammar actually. But what happens when a grammar nerd, What happens when they try to speak English? now has to focus on the information and the two things simultaneously, which is impossible despite knowing all the grammar rules. So don't learn English the same way you learned your first learning. What is unconscious learning? Does no. In this context, the word unconscious means unaware that you're learning something. awareness. One example of this way of learning you listen to a conversation, your goal is not to right? But as you listen...as you focus on the is learning English behind the scenes. You may not like grammar, vocabulary, and many other things. didn't learn through study. You learned by And you didn't try to memorize or understand any your brain learn the language in the background. you get unconscious, automatic knowledge. when you get conscious, non-automatic knowledge. build unconscious knowledge. These are the only The first one is listening, of course. The second about listening. Listening is a very popular you to listen to English. But is it really to improve your listening? If your goal is to time listening? Why not just focus on speaking your listening is not your goal, you still need it's impossible to become fluent without a lot of makes it easy to improve your speaking. You see, listen to English very much, you'll never become when you try to practice speaking, you will get confusing. Practicing new words will be confusing. cannot handle the complexity of the language. On you will become comfortable with the language. So a result, improving your speaking will be a lot regularly. You need to feed your brain with as Should you also read in English? Well, if you That's even better. But if you don't have a lot it helps you become familiar with the sounds of pitch, things like that. Besides, when you watch you are essentially reading in English, you will sometimes get to practice your reading content like YouTube videos, podcasts, audiobooks, the content and need to read subtitles, make language. At this point, you might have questions movies should I watch? What content is best for is simple. The best content for learning if you like travel, you might watch YouTube videos you might listen to business podcasts. If you like listen to things you like. It's that simple. Don't of learning English. If you do that, listening something that you have to force yourself to do. you will get distracted and get bored. At some doing it. I don't have this problem because I only I like Japan, so I'm subscribed to YouTube and other things related to Japan. I love scary podcasts. I'm also a big fan of fantasy to the Harry Potter audiobooks multiple times This way, I get to have fun and learn English at content I avoid, and that is grammar lessons. When prepositions, adjectives, you know, all the this type of content, I will develop the habit of what I want. I want to speak English naturally you listen to things you find enjoyable and avoid you spend listening each day? The answer is as is very complex, and so your brain needs a lot the more time you spend listening, the listen for 30 minutes a day. If you have 10 hours get, the faster your English will improve. But if me share a tip that has worked well for me. So, if to look at the screen to read subtitles, you can Personally, I like to listen while working out, strategy, I've been able to listen to English effort. I don't need self-discipline to do this. while doing your daily activities. But don't do it have to be something simple. Something you can do you really don't have to spend your free time some of that time to your speaking practice. you want to speak English well, then you're gonna speak some English. But what if you have no one solve this problem in a simple way. They simply that. When I was just starting out, I would talk talk about my job, the next day I might talk I stopped doing it because there are two problems you're talking to yourself, you're not learning practicing words and phrases you already know. problem is that if you make a lot of grammar this practice will not correct those mistakes. you will keep making the same mistakes. So, after to speak more quickly, but your English will be or sound like a native. You have your own way of doesn't work, how about talking with someone apply. If your speaking partner is an English mistakes when speaking. So when you're talking to you know, bad grammar and incomplete sentences. just like you, so talking to them isn't don't get me wrong. I'm not saying that you should to do that from time to time. But if your speaking on something called input-driven practice. What practice with some type of English material. It anything that contains native speech. The idea is new vocabulary and proper grammar, which will help Practice usually involves imitating or copying a learning methods like Shadowing or Imitation, I like the Imitation technique the most, so let To get started, find an audio or video of a where the speaker doesn't speak too fast. Once to familiarize yourself with the speech. and make sure you understand everything. Be sure if the speech is long, you don't have to listen to minutes. After you finish listening, you're ready beginning. This time, you're going to repeat after pause the audio and repeat what you hear out each sentence because that might be too difficult. words at a time. When you imitate, try to copy not and the emotion in the voice. Copy everything that was one way to practice Imitation. But this you can make the practice more challenging to of repeating a few words at a time, you can try If you come across a very long sentence, that's okay. The human brain is not very good at but it's good at remembering meaning or key sentence, try to express the meaning in your own &quot;Walking alone in a dense forest at night something like &quot;Walking alone in a forest at night you can just say &quot;Walking in a forest is scary.&quot; words is really helpful. It improves your ability yourself. As you can see, there's more than one it however you like. The important thing is to exposure to proper English. So there you have knowledge and become more fluent in English. A