Your Invisible Power Working principles and concrete examples in By Genevieve Behrend Read by Sarah Partridge First published in 1921. From 1912 to 1914, Behrend was a student of Troward of Cornwall England. Thereafter, she practitioner; founding New Thought schools This recording is a production of Master Key and discussion. The views and opinions expressed not always reflect those of Master Key Society FOREWORD and with the hope that their suggestions may desires, and to explain that Fear should be in order for you to obtain possession of the that your desire for possession is based upon example, you feel that the possession of more and your desire for possession of these things will bring you freedom and contentment. that the thing you most need is to consistently For example, one morning after class, a man word of supply for him as he was sadly in with the remark: &quot;Dear Madam, that is half in debt. My wife and child have not the proper to him that money is the symbol of differentiated It is present for you right now and it will &quot;But,&quot; he questioned, &quot;It may come too late.&quot; is eternally present. He understood and got the man again, but six months later I had He said, &quot;I am well established here in my own home, have an automobile of my own and I want to thank you for lifting me out of after I talked to you a man whom I have not I explained my situation to him, he loaned here. The inclosed check is to help you continue to mentally reach out and receive their never for my understanding as you have given it A feeling that greater possessions, no matter bring contentment or happiness, is a misunderstanding. They may give you cause for happiness and comes from within. should make the effort to obtain the things that your desires are in accord with the Joy It is also desired, in this volume, to suggest persistent effort to understand the Law of of this knowledge on whatever plane he or is not intended to convey the idea of strain. strain or tension. at the beginning of the creative action, or are sure to follow. &quot;While the laws of the to work under specific conditions, thereby which cannot be obtained under the spontaneous However far the suggestions I have given of visualizing, may carry you beyond your past of the law of cause and effect. one is brought to realize that his mind is is&quot; is in operation, simply waiting to be which it can take specific action (and this then the mission to which this book is dedicated Try to remember that the picture you think, Mind, and by the natural law of reciprocal or physical form. Knowledge of this law of the Universal Mind opens to you free access must be steadfastly borne in mind that all recognizes that he derives his power to make Universal Spirit of Life, and can be used and retained in harmony with the nature of this there must be no inversion of the thought to this Universal Originating Spirit, which mind acts and reacts. yourself to be, the Creative Spirit of Life reaction. This is the great reason for picturing them to be as existing facts (though invisible An honest endeavor to do this, always recognizing Originating Spirit, will prove to you that -Genvienve Behrend CHAPTER 1 ORDER OF VISUALIZATION your mind in order, and attracts to you the in an orderly way. If you train yourself in desire and carefully examining your picture, desires proceed in a more orderly procession ordered mentality you are no longer in a constant destructive. the power to visualize your heart's desire you all things requisite to the fulfillment of the law of attraction. You realize that places things in their natural order, then Everyone visualizes, whether he knows it or The conscious use of this great power attracts wisdom, and enables you to make use of advantages For example: A lady once came to me for help to her just how to make a mental picture of exactly as she would do if the property was one day she was walking along the street when and see a certain real estate dealer, to whom moment when she first got the idea as it seemed However upon the strength of what I had told real estate man, who sold the property for approached him. This was simply following We now fly through the air, not because anyone but because the inventor of the flying machine making orderly use of them, produced the desired nothing has changed since the beginning. There those of that generation could not conceive &quot;It has not yet been done&quot; was the argument, materials for practical flying machines existed Troward tells us that the great lesson he is the triumph of principle over precedent, conclusion in spite of accumulated contrary With such an example before you, you must to be disclosed. Also &quot;That you hold the key secret chamber that contains your heart's you may use this key and make your life exactly into the unseen causes which stand back of bring these unseen causes into harmony with can make practical working realities of possibilities For example: A woman came to me in New York I spoke the word of ever present supply to the woman in the position she dreamed of, reality. That same afternoon she called up as she had just taken exactly the kind of she had been wanting a woman like her for We all know that the balloon was the forefather an English nobleman, proved that hydrogen that discovery the balloon came into existence, a cigar-shaped airship, was evolved. Study of birds and projectiles led to the belief machines could be made to travel from place of great speed which would overcome by propulsive Langley of Washington who developed much of upon was subjected to much derision when he bury its nose in the muddy water of the Potomac. in the latter part of the Nineteenth Century, the air in a machine that had no gas bag. transportation with great facility. It is other (when their varied experiences did not brother, I can see myself riding in that machine, Those Wright Brothers knew what they wanted, them. And though transportation through the it will become as ordinary a method of travel In visualizing, or making a mental picture, of Nature. You are fulfilling them. Your object order both mentally and physically. When you Creative Power brings your desires, one after your confidence in the mysterious but unfailing station in the very heart of your word-picture, never feel that it is necessary to take anything and seeking have as their corelatives, receiving is to start the plastic substance of the Universe provides. CHAPTER 2 HOW TO ATTRACT TO YOURSELF THE THE power within you which enables you to of all there is. In its original state it of life. Your thought picture makes the mould takes shape. Visualizing, or mentally seeing be, is the condensing, the specializing power of a magic lantern. The magic lantern is one It illustrates the working of the Creative (or in its concentrated specializing form) The picture slide illustrates your own mental mind until you turn on the light of your will. absolute faith that the Creative Spirit of flow of the light of the will on the Spirit, screen of the physical world, an exact reproduction For example. A woman came to me for help to she was very unhappy and lonely without him could not lose love and protection because do to get her husband back again. I told her think of her husband as perfectly free and be. She went away quite happy but returned desired a divorce in order to marry again. her will in following the instructions given to hold constantly in her mind that the loving her in perfect happiness. A month later she the other woman. This time she had completely to her as before and she regained her poise. of joy. Her husband had come to her begging mistake he had made as he could not be happy and she, at least, learned the necessity of by the use of her will. to inhibit every thought and feeling contrary lantern without the light. On the other hand, hold your picture in thought and feeling, thought is the great attracting power, then upon the screen of your physical world as lantern ever made. with a light that is constantly shifting from effect of an uncertain will. It is as necessary picture with a strong, steady will, as it picture slide. picture is the very powerful magnet of Faith, than you ever were, because you have learned you rely upon its never-failing response to All said and done, happiness is the one thing of visualization enables you to get more out possibilities keep opening out, more and more, A business man once told me that since practicing a few minutes each day to thinking about his broad way, his business had more than doubled room every morning before breakfast and take left it the evening before, and then enlarge in this way until his affairs were in a remarkably in his office doing everything that he wanted many strangers every day. In his mental picture their needs and supplying them in just the strengthened and steadied his will in an almost mentally seeing things as he wished them to that a certain Creative Power was exercising of improving his little world. you may feel, as many others do, that someone and that, naturally, would not suit your purpose. about this. Simply try to realize that your Creative Power specifically applied. Then to you. The universal law of harmony prevents picture is Universal Mind specifically exercising God, or Universal Mind, made man for the special Him. Everything there is, came into existence self-differentiation, and for the same purpose. the prototype of the thing, which is the thing The Great Architect of the Universe contemplated matter, and the idea expanded and projected many worlds. physical world at all?&quot; The answer is: &quot;Because to solidify, under directivity rather than to harden when it becomes cold, or plaster to the air. Your picture is this. same Divine through the individualized center of Divine to prevent this combination of Spiritual Substance of Spirit to complete its work and an idea a vehicle. Nothing can prevent your picture same power which gave it birth - yourself. You look about your room and the idea of order so forth. The box, the closet and the hooks, are the vehicles through which order and harmony CHAPTER 3 RELATION BETWEEN MENTAL AND PHYSICAL Some persons feel that it is not quite proper they say. Why, material form is necessary individual standpoint, and this is the means forward. Therefore, far from matter being to be, matter is the necessary channel for it is not my desire to lead you into lengthy to remove the mystery of visualization and each individual will do this in his own way. way I know, which is the road on which Troward I have, that the only mystery in connection form, governed by unchangeable and easily We all possess more power and greater possibilities the greatest of these powers. It brings other pause to think for a moment, we realize that outcome of a Cosmic Mind, which binds &quot;all of action, thereby producing all things as will take this thought of Troward's and meditate realize that concrete material form is an also &quot;that matter is not an illusion but a itself.&quot; If you consider matter in its right will not find any antagonism between them. one harmonious whole. And when you realize that you are working from cause to effect, picture is the specialized working of the on purely scientific lines, showing, as Troward of the solar systems is universally distributed that while the Heavens are studded with millions of cosmic activity. This being true, there in certain places, while passing over others At first thought one might attribute the development themselves. Upon investigation, however, we in a medium which is equally distributed throughout therefore no one particle possesses in itself the other. Thus we find that the initial movement, of primary substance, is not the particles we speak of Spirit.&quot; into existence will bring your individual There is no difference in the power. The only power and the substance themselves are the it has transferred its creative energy from in the same unfailing manner from its specific CHAPTER IV OPERATION OF YOUR MENTAL PICTURE may be used as a simile. The main, or head, centrals, every branch being in direct connection branch, recognizing the source of its existence, when assistance of any nature is required; or what not, the branch in need goes at once referring its difficulties (or its successes) (though they might belong to the same organization). the only remedy for any difficulty must come and to which they are always attached. Mind, would refer our difficulties in the we were projected, and use the remedies which meant when he said, &quot;Ask and ye shall receive.&quot; the Father must supply the child. The trunk branches. saying he was about to lose his home in the to the hilt and his creditors were going to and grown to young manhood in, and the thought sorrow, not only from a money standpoint, I explained to him that the Power that brought of expressing its limitless supply through could cut him off from his source except his not be cut off then. I explained to him that it was there, and said: &quot;Infinite substance week, on Sunday, just before leaving my dressing message, I received the following note. &quot;Dear the happiest man in the whole city of New came in the most miraculous way, and I have Please tell the people this afternoon about You may be sure I did, explaining to them into existence or outstandingness by a Power which creates the mental picture, (the Originating does not stand out. It projects the substance of itself, while it remains invisible to the the value of visualizing who are able to realize formed by the word of God. Things which are There is nothing unusual or mysterious in material evidence. It is the working of a by the self-contemplation of the Universal in its individualized branch which is the has its beginning in mind and comes into existence your head to the boots on your feet. All are advance in evolution depends upon your right use of it depends on whether you recognize through and in which the Originating Spirit already existing within Itself. This is evolution; outwardly invisible things. which evolves and combines the Originating is the combining and evolving power house, Spirit expresses itself. Its creative action end, and always progressive and orderly. &quot;It a necessary preparation for the one to follow.&quot; different stages by which the things in the can get at the working principle which is and easily give it personal application. First, or Spirit, about Itself is its simple awareness ether, a universal substance out of which Troward also tells us that &quot;though this awareness further possibilities, it is not much to talk Spirit, which is yourself. Before you can of your desire as being at all practical, your &quot;I am&quot;; and just as soon as you are conscious the freedom which this consciousness suggests. fulfill this desire within yourself, localized The thing you are more concerned with is the Life, Universal Mind specialized. The localized individuality; and since the joy of absolute it is natural that it should endeavor to enjoy you grow in the comprehension that your being, Himself, you naturally develop Divine tendencies. freedom in your affairs as well as in your should. With this progressive wish there is and your recognition grow into an intense picture. For example, a young lady studying at home. She wants the piano so much that She holds the picture of the piano and indulges advantage it will be to have the piano in finds it there just as she had pictured it. are, where you came from, what the purpose the purpose for which you are intended, you through which the Creative Spirit of Life there can be but one creative process filling whether universal or individual. Furthermore, the visible or invisible, had its origin in picture, and this includes yourself, because same creative action is taking place through Now you are no doubt asking yourself why there If the same power and intelligence which brought the mind of man, why does it not manifest If one can have one's desires fulfilled by holding on to it with the will, and without seems necessary to bring the desire into fulfillment, of sickness and poverty. Surely no one desires will take the trouble to inquire into the they did they would soon convince themselves and poverty which we see about us. They would not a fallacy. There are a few who have found absolutely unfailing law which will deliver whole is not willing to give the time required too difficult. They may make a picture of of visualizing for a day of two, but more If you will insist upon mentally seeing yourself wish them to be, you will understand that the direction indicated by the tendency of holding your thought in the form of a mental For example: A man in the hardware business He would have to go into bankruptcy unless he had never heard of visualizing. I explained business increasing instead of a picture of very happy and told me how he had succeeded. is full of new supplies.&quot; His business was see his Faith. to put into your picture, the more quickly is increased by keeping your desire secret. that moment your power is weakened. Your power, and consequently cannot reach so far. The and your outer self is guarded, the more vitality one's troubles to weaken them, to get them out, its power is dissipated. Talk it over destroy the paper. strenuously endeavor to compel the Power to that you think it should. That method would of your purpose. A wealthy relative need not on the street to materialize the $10,000 which in the building in which I lived heard much passing out of my rooms. The average desire was more in his line and began to visualize how he was to get it. My parrot flew out of the courtyard to get it for me. One caught who had gloves on, and did not fear a similar me. I gave him five one-dollar bills for his He enthusiastically told me that he had been that others visualized. He was delighted at All you have to do is to make such a mental in place with your will, always conscious the universe into existence brought you into and through you. And since it is all Life, and is the only Creative Power there is, the the direction given it by your thought indicator. take any direction given it as it passes through of self-distribution. your thoughts from one form to another. The Universal Power taking the initiative, giving in every thought. this highly sensitive Substance any form you with a small expenditure of effort. Once you through which the unformed substance of all form, the only reason. why your picture does introduced something antagonistic to the fundamental is caused by the frequency with which you you decide that your original desire is what begin to wonder why, (being your first picture), you are mentally dealing is more sensitive If, in taking a picture, you suddenly remembered plate, you would not expect a perfect result may have taken two pictures on the same plate and the picture comes into physical view, you nor are you puzzled to understand why You do not feel that it is impossible for subject in question. You know that you can putting in a new plate, and determining to next time. These lines followed out, you are proceed in the same manner with your mental confident frame of mind, the result will be as infallible as the laws governing photography. Again, your results in visualizing the fulfillment desires delayed through the misuse of this of your desire is contingent upon certain is not in any way dependent upon any person, future. The law is that the Originating Creative and everlasting now.&quot; creates its own vehicles experience has no bearing upon your present through a channel which may not be natural to you. Your feeling should be that the thing, is normal and natural, a part of yourself, there is no power to prevent your enjoying mind, or any other you may create. CHAPTER 5 EXPRESSIONS FROM BEGINNERS is an Aladdin's lamp to him with a mighty were so outraged during the Franco-Prussian a French army against the Germans to victory. and waited. This is one result of visualizing A famous actress wrote a long article in one describing how she rid herself of excessive as she wished to be. A very interesting letter lecturing in New York. She began with the on visualization, making humanity realize of liberation within themselves. Relating born on the East Side of New York in the poorest a dream of marrying a physician some day. picture. The first position she obtained was family. Leaving this place she entered the employer died, and in time the doctor married After that both she and her husband conceived They formed a mental picture of the idea and The letter she sent me came from her fruit had seen the light of materialization. every day. The following is a case that was &quot;Atlantic City, May 5. - She was an old woman, Goldenberg in the police court today she was The Judge asked the court attendant what she Your Honor,' repeated the officer. 'She took before daybreak this morning.' 'Why did you hungry,' the old woman said. 'I didn't have to eat except to steal it. I didn't think 'What's your name?' asked the Judge. 'Weinberg,' Judge Goldenberg asked her a few questions not very wealthy now, but you're no longer I've got $500 belonging to you from the estate Judge Goldenberg paid the woman's fine out his office, where he turned her legacy over a lodging place.&quot; been desiring and mentally picturing $500, possibly come to her. But she kept her vision In a recent issue of Good Housekeeping there &quot;Stiffening Your Mental Backbone.&quot; It is very it. He says, in part: &quot;Form the habit of devoting your work in a large, broad imaginative way, service to society.&quot; he started building his road from coast to all along the line before there was a rail with a map of the United States before him as we do now over his fulfilled mental picture. to hundreds of similar cases. desire is both simple and enjoyable, if you enough to believe it. Over and above everything Then specialize your desire along the lines CHAPTER 6 SUGGESTIONS FOR MAKING YOUR MENTAL Perhaps you want to feel that you've lived and happy; you feel that good health and a After you have decided once and for all that yourself healthy, and your business just as it growing into. The best time for making and before retiring at night. As it is necessary necessary to rise earlier than you usually meditate for a few moments upon the practical yourself, &quot;How did the things about me first in touch with my invisible supply?&quot; expressed and experienced by sitting on a of a chair was the desire to be at ease. With The same principle applies to the hat and thought of the principle back of the thing. it a fact to your consciousness. Then open during the time draw a large imaginary circle yourself in the center of this circle of light) and entering your body at all points, centralizing a few moments at this central point of your As you do this, mentally see imaginary rays, and down and out through the feet. Mentally light. When you have finished the breathing and mentally know there is but one Life, one Universe is finding pleasure in self-recognition until you feel the truth and stimulating reality begin your picture. If you are thorough in beneath the surface of your own thought-power. or a possession, large or small, begin at by seeing yourself in the kind of house you note of the rooms, where the windows are situated, the reality of your picture. You might change some of the mirrors just to see how healthy, again and again until you feel the have reality seen it, with the feeling that: to.. me, because my mind is a center of divine to come true, in your physical world, as the CHAPTER 7 THINGS TO REMEMBER of New Conditions you wish to produce. Then weigh carefully your desire will lead to. picture, you are concentrating the Creative its forces are equally balanced. into a state of equilibrium which enables to a definitely recognized purpose and to a flow in the opposite direction. dealing with a wonderful potential energy form, and that by the action of your mind form that you will. Your picture assists you inflow of this Creative Energy is taking place. the direction you wish the sensitive Creative of your picture is a certainty. that there is no strenuous effort to hold defeats your purpose, and suggests the consciousness and this creates conditions adverse to your 6. By holding your picture in a cheerful frame disperse or dissipate the spiritual nucleus in its action, your pictured desire is certain 7. The seventh and great thing to remember picture for the purpose of determining the substance and energy rather than to arrange That is the work of Creative Power itself. quite naturally, if you will allow it, and What you really want is expansion in a certain not, and so long as you get it (as you surely what does it matter whether it reaches you count upon, or through some other of whose energy of a particular kind for a particular details take care of themselves, and never Remember always, that &quot;Nature from her clearly is one vast storehouse of light and good entirely Oneness with the great Whole is the secret this you can enjoy your possession of the your recognition you have made it, and can Never forget that every physical thing, whether before it was a thing. it is Creative Action and always takes physical become the things you possess or do not possess. he longed to marry a certain young woman but was small and work uncertain. I spoke the and explained that Love knows no failure. kind of a home you both want. Do your part; in that which Lives and Loves in you.&quot; A few radiantly happy. I knew they were married. are very happy because we now know how to as one, with all we want.&quot; So be yourself not fear to be your true self for, everything CHAPTER 8 WHY I TOOK UP THE STUDY OF MENTAL I have frequently been questioned about my Science, and as to the results of my search, also in the application of that knowledge Such inquiries are justifiable, because one truths can only be convincing as he or she experience. This is particularly true in my the greatest Master in Mental Science of the the relation borne by the Individual Mind the Giver of Life, and the manner in which and fuller expression in the individual life. Science was an overwhelming sense of loneliness. of spiritual isolation as pervaded my life each day found me in the midst of friends, a persistent feeling that I was alone in the years, wandering from country to country, The circumstances and surroundings of my life an unusually fortunate young woman. Although loss when my husband died, they knew that go anywhere my pleasure dictated. in-most emotions, they would have found a feeling inspired a spirit of unrest which the outside for that which I later learned I studied Christian Science, but it gave me work the Scientists were doing, and even having Eddy personally. But it was impossible for Christian Science and make practical application When about to abandon the search for contentment amusement, a friend invited me to visit the my interview with this most wonderful of men, change. He had told me that I would travel I had found it, would speak it out. The fulfillment to be impossible. But it carried a measure my former seeking had been in the wrong direction. within myself, for had he not intimated that thing, and about the only thing I remember A few days later, upon visiting the office was attracted to a book on his table entitled by T. Troward. It interested me to see that the Punjab, India. I purchased the book, thinking have endeavored to do the same thing, only in order to be understood, and hundreds have attention. After finding this treasure book while there studied the volume as thoroughly It seemed extremely difficult, and I decided the hope that its study might not require that a subsequent volume, &quot;The Dore Lectures,&quot; books. When I procured it, I found that it months to get even a vague conception of the is entitled &quot;Entering Into the Spirit of It.&quot; into the spirit of what I was reading. 26 arrested my attention, as seeming the greatest endeavored with all my soul to enter into reads: The Divine operation is always for expansion production of something beyond what has gone in the past experience, though proceeding Therefore, since the Divine cannot change same manner with me; consequently, in my own will move forward to produce new conditions, It took an effort on my part to memorize this end the words seemed to carry with them a made it easier for me to enter into the spirit had been seeking for. My one desire was for that the Divine operation in me could expand more contentment - in fact, a peace of mind had ever known. The paragraph further inspired in me could bring into my life something entirely experience, but that was exactly what Troward would not exclude my past experience, but thing that would transcend anything that I Meditation on these statements brought with thing it would be if I could accept and sincerely of Troward's was true. Surely the Divine could Divine life is operating in me, I must be operate just as it operates upon the Universal friends and conditions would ultimately become &quot;I am the center.&quot; This would all happen just thereby provide a concrete center around which Surely it was worth trying for. If Troward held me to my task. Later I determined to to the world so great a statement. It had immediate difficulty was the need for increased CHAPTER 9 HOW I ATTRACTED TO MYSELF TWENTY In the laboratory of experience in which my was to be tested, the first problem was a one, quite enough for my everyday needs. But go comfortably to England where Troward lived, with so great a teacher as he must be. So or whether I would be eligible in case he Daily, in fact, almost hourly, the words were operation, and Divine operation means expansion From the Edinburgh Lectures I had read something Chapter on &quot;Causes and Conditions&quot; I had gleaned before going to sleep, I made a mental picture to go and study with Troward. Twenty $1,000 and then, with the idea of more emphatically twenty thousand dollars was for the purpose I wrote out my picture, saw myself buying ship's deck from New York to London, and, pupil. This process was repeated every morning and more fully upon my mind Troward's memorized operations.&quot; I endeavored to keep this statement time with no thought in mind of how the money there was no thought of the avenues through I could not possibly imagine where the $20,000 steady and let the power of attraction find One day while walking on the street, taking &quot;My mind is surely a center of Divine operation. my mind also; if I want this money to study Life, then both the money and the truth must the physical manifestations of either. &quot;Still,&quot; While these reflections were going on in my me the thought: &quot;I Am all the substance there the answer seemed to come, &quot;Of course, that's mind. The 'I' the Idea, must be the only one money as well as everything else.&quot; My mind tension of mind and body was relaxed. There in touch with all the power Life has to give. own personality, vanished in the great wave walked on and on with this feeling of joy about me seemed aglow with resplendent light. was. All consciousness of personality had great and almost overwhelming sense of joy That night when I made my picture of the twenty aspect. On previous occasions, when making up something within myself. This time there over the twenty thousand dollars. Then, in which I had no consciousness at the time, which the money might reach me. It all seemed so wonderful, so glorious, to cautioned his readers to keep all excitement of union with Infinite supply, and to treat had been reached through our demand? This to hold the thought that &quot;all the substance of all form, visible or invisible.&quot; which indicated the direction through which not only made a supreme effort to regard the of the seed I had sown in the absolute, but thereby fulfilling my part. By so doing one until, step by step, my desired twenty thousand and free from excitement was my greatest effort. Mental Science as expounded by Troward's book he had outlined. In this connection, therefore, to quote Troward's book, &quot;The Edinburgh Lectures,&quot; of the line of action I was endeavoring to he says: our relation to the great impersonal power intelligent, and the two intelligencies must the Law expecting it to do for us what is use our intelligence with the knowledge that intelligence; and because we have this knowledge to the final result. ideal conception of our object with the definite Mind - it is this thought that takes such - and then affirm that our knowledge of the of a corresponding result, and that therefore due order. We can then turn to the affairs that the initial conditions are either there do not at once see them, let us rest content is already in existence and wait till some begins to show itself. It may be a very small not the magnitude which is to be taken into regard it as the first sprouting of the seed excitement, whatever the circumstances seem that this doing will in turn lead to a further we find ourselves conducted, step by step, way the understanding of the great principle deliver us more and more completely out of labor and bring us into a new world where mental or physical, will only be an unfolding own nature, and therefore a perpetual source surely, to the careful study of the laws governing Universal Mind.&quot; the core and center of the method and manner with Infinite Supply. At least it, together mind is a center of Divine operation,&quot; etc., to myself the twenty thousand dollars. My these statements, and to attract to myself end of which time I had in my bank the required into a long story, giving all the details, you a definite idea of the magnetic condition was finding its way to me. CHAPTER 10 HOW I BECAME THE ONLY PERSONAL OF THE PRESENT DAY came to me, I asked a friend to write him couch my desire in better or more persuasive written by this friend I received not one have completely abandoned the idea of becoming I had had that day on the street when my whole promise &quot;All things whatsoever thou wilt, receive.&quot; to England was arranged, notwithstanding the We wrote again, however, and finally received Troward did not take pupils; he had no time definite decision, I declined to be discouraged the day when the light and the thought had is.&quot; I seemed to be able to live that experience a flood of courage and renewed energy. We Troward, asking for an interview. The telegram he could see us. a little out-of-the-way place in the southern railway station. We could not find it on the Agency in London, located the place for us. as to what Troward would say to me in this that the truth was mine; also that it would peace and contentment were outward, as well life. rainstorm, and were cordially received by surprise, to be more the type of a Frenchman he was a descendant of the Huguenot race), head, big nose, and eyes that fairly danced to the other members of the family and given living-room where Troward talked very freely It seemed quite impossible to bring him to however, I asked quite boldly: &quot;Will you not pupil? I wish so much to study with you,&quot; manner that he did not feel he could give but that he would be glad to give me the names not only be interesting but instructive to that I had come all the way from America to the lane from his house to our automobile of sympathy seemed to touch his heart, and write to me, if so inclined, after you get autumn, we could arrange something, though I lost no time in following up his very kind and courteously answered, but there was never studies. Finally, about two months later, it: &quot;What do you suppose is the meaning of Verse 16. And the city lieth foursquare and he measured the city with the reed, twelve and the &quot;'height of it are equal.&quot; with Troward hung upon my giving the correct the verse seemed utterly beyond my reach. knew intuitively that they were incorrect. acquaintances with the same questions. Lawyers, over the world, received letters from me with to return to me, but intuition told me not to find the answer for myself, but no answer I might meditate upon it. I began a search to me, and after two or three days' search to go into some of the old bookstores there. the last places in which to find them. Finally The man had only one copy of each left, consequently the clerk, my eye rested upon the work of and asked: &quot;Do you think Professor would read the suggestion, and responded, &quot;Why, no, Madame, He does not read horoscopes.' impulse within me to go to the man. The friend books remonstrated with me, and tried in every astrologer, but I insisted. When we arrived to ask him to read my horoscope. Nevertheless, Reluctantly, the Professor invited us into impatiently he asked us to be seated. Very did not read horoscopes. His whole manner he wished we would take our departure. what to do next, because I felt that I was tell me there was something for me to gain so I paused a moment, much to my friend's the Professor's enormous Persian cats jumped shouted. &quot;What does it mean?&quot; he seemed to than he had hitherto shown in me, the Professor &quot;I have never known that cat to go to a stranger also, now feel an interest in your horoscope, me pleasure to write it out for you.&quot; me when he made this statement which he concluded care for your horoscope.&quot; The truth of this about a horoscope, and could not give any he said, &quot;may I call for your data next Sunday On Sunday afternoon at the appointed time, the slip of paper with all the data of my Professor the answer to the question Troward Chapter of Revelation. The thought was instantly this man what he thought this verse meant. replied &quot;It means: the city signifies the side from which you approach it is exactly recognized this answer as the true one, and that with this correct answer in my possession, fall. to him all about my desire to study with Troward, express purpose, seemingly to no avail, until given to me by him. He was greatly interested when asked if he would please send me his the great Troward accepts you as his pupil,&quot; my room to send a telegram to Troward giving of the 21st Chapter of Revelation. which said: &quot;Your answer is correct. beginning in London. If you wish to attend them, will you still wish to study with me, I think it preparations were at once made to leave Paris I attended all the lectures, receiving much were made for my studying with Troward. Two the following letter from Troward clearly 31 Stanwick Road, W. Kensington, England, Dear Mrs. Behrend: with regard to your proposed studies with any misapprehension and so to suffer any disappointment. years, and have a general acquaintance with which, unfortunately, occupy attention in Theosophy, The Tarot, The Kabala, and the to the best of my judgment, all sorts and in direct opposition to the real life-giving any teaching on such lines as these. but, believe me, the more you try to become put yourself from living life. and consideration when I say that the Bible really worth studying, and that is a subject as it does, our outward life and of everyday life and all that we can in general terms off the body at death. confidence in my teaching, and if your confidence yourself entirely under my guidance, I can and should have to ask you to exhibit that &quot;Mysteries&quot; as I would forbid you to look I am speaking from experience; but the result to be very simple, perhaps to some extent much of it before. to the Father through Christ - all this is I can hope to do is perhaps to throw a little become to you, not merely traditional words, I have been thus explicit as I do not want should say that our so-called course of study times as we can fit them in, either you coming convenient at the time. be helpful, but they are very few, and in Now, if all this falls in with your ideas, at Ruan Manor, and you will find that the and the neighborhood very pretty. want some other source of learning, do not substitute for Christ. this, but I do not want you to come all the With kindest regards, (Signed) T. TROWARD. is the greatest thing I can give you. CHAPTER 11 HOW TO BRING THE POWER IN YOUR In every word you use there is a power germ your word indicates, and ultimately develops wish the consciousness of joy. Repeat the The repetition of the word joy sets up a quality begin to expand and project itself until your a mere fancy, but a truth. Once you experience that these facts have not been fabricated up by careful observation of facts. &quot;Everyone give it to you. Another may give you cause Joy is a state of consciousness, and consciousness Troward says the &quot;Mental faculties always and this stimulus may come either from without, by the consciousness of something not perceptible this interior source of stimulum enables you you desire.&quot; Once a thing seems normal to of growth and attraction, as it is yours to of figures. word in all of its limitless meaning yours, and thought is creative; neither good nor Faith builds up and Fear destroys. &quot;Only believe, is Faith that gives you dominion over every word of Faith that sets you free, not faith in your best self in all ways. It is because the heart of the word that makes your health, a reproduction of your most habitual thought. will find yourself Master of every adverse a Prince of Power. CHAPTER 12 HOW TO INCREASE YOUR FAITH Faith when I have little or no faith?&quot; Every Faith is that quality of Power which gives and the vitality in the word of Faith you form. Even intense fear is alive with faith. for you to contract it. You fear poverty and for you. It is the Faith which understands of thought-words that gives you dominion over this feeling of faith is increased and intensified Your constant observation should be of your you hoped you might, but feared it was too when you simply had to bring yourself into to have a certain thing and got it? Live these until you really feel in touch with the self is, is yours. CHAPTER 13 THE REWARD OF INCREASED FAITH faith into the faith of the Universe which conscious realization that you are not a victim you are able to recognize that there is that contact with the Universal Law, and enables whether visible or invisible, into serving you find yourself Master, not a slave of any is to be &quot;accomplished by knowledge, and the in all its measureless immensity is the knowledge and its reciprocity to our own personality. you feel yourself to be, are all reproductions spirit.&quot; All your word-thoughts were God word-forms The words you use are the instruments, channels Naturally, this sensitive Creative Power can through which it passes. All disappointments to think one thing and produce another. This electric fan to be used for lighting purposes, in a straight line. The water must take the Even more truly this sensitive, invisible, of the thought-word through which it passes. it logically follows, &quot;As a man thinketh, is in correspondence with the Eternal constructive then your mind is the mirror in which the sees itself reproduced, and your individual CHAPTER 14 HOW TO MAKE NATURE RESPOND TO It should be steadily borne in mind that there and all space which is always creative and of its nature is two-fold: it is creative understanding grasps this all-important fact, law of life supplies your every demand. All mind is a center of Divine operation, and accepts suggestions, and expect all life to which tend to the fulfillment of your desire but also from the flowers, the grass, the to fulfill your heart's desire, if you act &quot;Faith without works is dead,&quot; but Faith with CHAPTER 15 FAITH WITH WORKS - WHAT IT HAS It is said of Tyson, the great Australian the desert land of Australia blossom as the violet while he was working as a bushman for to find these friendly little violets growing in the flower touched something akin to itself side of his bunk at night and wonder how flowers to express themselves in the desert land of take a long time to save enough money to put his thought and feeling assured him it could he could do it. If there was a power within then there must be a responsive power within a practical physical manifestation. He resolutely ways and means which would be employed in and simply kept his thought centered upon and grass where none existed at that time. Power is not limited to any local condition picture set his ideas free to roam in an infinitude, kindred nature. Therefore, it was not necessary his three shilling a day enough money to irrigate for his ideas found other ideas in the financial themselves, and doors of finance were quickly All charitable institutions are maintained life. If this were not true, no one would The law of demand and supply, cause and effect, kindred ideas. Sometimes they come from a are intent upon an idea not quite complete behold along comes another idea, from no one with your idea; one idea attracting another, facts. in your finances, and wonder how this increase to come from within the idea itself that everything your thoughts turn their course. You simply the best, and all there is, is yours. Since through the instrument of that your intuition, full well that this very thought will respond anxiety enables the reassuring ideas to establish and &quot;I will&quot; ideas, which gradually grow into In the conscious uses of the Universal Power three facts should be borne in mind: Power. Second, This Creative Power is amenable Third, It can only work by deductive methods. important point, for it implies that the action way limited by precedent. It works according In other words, this Universal Power takes it. Once man realizes this great truth, the power is invested becomes the most important It is the unvarying law of Creative Life Principle he.&quot; If you realize the truth that the Creative think. it to be, it is willing and able to Troward says, &quot;If you think your thought is &quot;As a man thinketh in his heart, so is he&quot; can no more change this law than an ordinary image than the object you hold before it. you tell people you think&quot; or &quot;as you would your innermost thoughts, that place where save the son&quot; and &quot;No one can know the son Spirit of Life knows what you think until themselves in your body, your brain or your into contact may know, because the Father, in secret your most secret thoughts, rewards form. &quot;As you think, that is what you become&quot; constantly. This is watching and praying without up to par physically, pray. CHAPTER 16 Suggestions as to How to Pray SCIENTIFIC THINKING - POSITIVE THOUGHT Try, through careful, positive, enthusiastic that the indescribable, Invisible Substance Intelligent, Undifferentiated Substance. to go into this sort of meditation. month, before falling asleep impress firmly &quot;My Father is the ruler of all the world, me,&quot; you will find that the substance of life accept the above suggestion simply because until the impression is made upon your own morning, as was suggested before, at five chair, and think out the affirmation of the be able to put into practice your Princely at least, that your mind really is a center Power there is is taking form. Scientific Prayer In prayer for a change in condition; physical, bear in mind that the fundamental necessity of the scientific statement &quot;believing you have already received, This is not as difficult as it appears on Everything has its origin in the mind, and possess. No one can think a thought in the Your thought of a thing constitutes its origin. The Thought Form of the Thing is Already Yours Your steady recognition of this Thought Possession to project itself and to assume physical form. To Get Rich Through Creation of wealth is the loftiest aspiration you can the furtherance of all noble aims. Items to be remembered about Prayer for Yourself Remember that that which you call treatment It should never be your endeavor to take possession Remember that it should never be your intention to be untrue. You are simply thinking into that: &quot;If a thing is true at all, there is Remember that the Power of Thought works by are expressed in the language of the statement: This statement contains a world of wisdom, of the statement itself is required to bring Remember that the principles involved in being revealed by the law &quot;As you sow, so shall Remember that your Freedom to choose just you will affirm and claim, constitutes God's It shows...... First Cause has endowed every man with the environment whatever he chooses. Cause and Effect in reference to Getting. you sow a GRAIN OF CORN, you reap a stalk You always get the manifestation of that which CLAIM, habitually declare and expect, or in &quot;AS YOU SOW&quot; I AM......I OUGHT TO DO......I CAN DO...... REALIZE because you OUGHT to, you CAN do; that because this Truth, even in a small degree, gives DOMINION IS YOUR CHARTER RIGHT You are an power He has. and you know that all you have to do is to This Formula may serve as a pattern to shape the benefit of another or yourself. of the person you wish to help, then dismiss Intensify your thought by meditating upon the way, which is the Truth and is the Life. since you are thinking this, it is already central idea of this meditation, you examine ought which is unlike God. If there is any or jealousy, turn back in your meditation that God's Love and Purity fills all space thought with the Love of God, always remembering You are made in the Image and Likness of Love. you feel that you have freed your consciousness than: Love and Unity with all Humanity. Then if is unlike your desired manifestation. This with the affirmative thought that: God, and that you already have your desire or thought-form. Closing of Prayer. use of the Law which gives you the Power of way to hamper your perfect liberty. IT MORE AND MORE FULLY. you declare yourself a PRINCE OF POWER. THE CHILD OF A KING AND HENCE DOMINION IS of this great Truth flooding your consciousness, Praise because you have the understanding THE CREATOR AND HIS CREATION ARE ONE, through his creation. that the Prayer which is fulfilled is not affirming that: &quot;The Creator of all Creation THE WORK MUST BE PERFECTLY DONE. YOUR MIND Hints for application and Practice study of the theories of Mental Science, spend of the knowledge acquired. to conscientiously thinking over the specification prayers answered. thought possession for two periods of fifteen each period to see how long you can keep a also keep a written record of the vividness Remember that your mental senses are just 3. Spend five minutes every day between 12 for new sources of wealth. CHAPTER 17 THINGS TO REMEMBER has ever known (Jesus Christ, the Man) said Also the &quot;things I do you can do.&quot; Did he Jesus did not claim to be more divine than children of God. By birth he was no exception through His personal effort. He said you could A great idea is valueless unless accompanied works it out upon the physical plane. Self-command alone can produce it. mind is contentment of soul, and contentment If you wish health, watch your thoughts, not about everything and everybody. With your and outwardly act in accordance with your power both over thoughts and conditions has You believe in God. Believe in yourself as operates. self-mastery to conquer the negative tendency Ask yourself daily: &quot;What is the purpose of &quot;How can I work with the purpose for life After having decided these questions, endeavor yourself. eat, drink or blame circumstances for your inward conviction that all power is yours. less, and the best there is will gradually be. you will. the Father blesses you with all He has to Make good Godly use of it. began your studies and demonstrations in Mental simple discovery of Power within which was understanding later. With increased understanding, results will correspond. I hope that you've enjoyed this presentation notifications of upcoming recordings. Key Society. The video and audio is Copyright