You probably don't have a problem playing In fact I have no doubt you could sit in front for 2 hours, or even longer without breaking But what about half an hour of studying? Oof. That might be too hard. How about working on your side business for Hmm. Doesn't sound too appealing. Even though you logically know that studying, equally productive, will bring you more benefits TV, playing video games and scrolling through One might argue that it's obvious why. One activity is easy and doesn't require much and it requires you to apply yourself. But some people seem to have no problem studying, Which begs the question: Why are some people And is there a way to make doing difficult To answer this question, we need to look at Dopamine is often considered a pleasure molecule. But that's not quite what it does. Dopamine is what makes us desire things. And it's that desire that gives us the motivation If you're not sure how powerful dopamine is, neuroscientists did on rats. The researchers implanted electrodes in the Whenever the rat pulled a lever, the researchers The result was that the rats developed a craving and over for hours. The rats would refuse to eat or even sleep. They would just keep pressing the lever until But then the process was reversed. The researchers blocked the release of dopamine As a result, rats became so lethargic that not worth the effort. They wouldn't eat. They didn't want to mate. They didn't crave anything at all. You could say that the rats lost all will However, if food was placed directly in their the food. They just didn't have the motivation to get You would think that it's thirst or hunger But there's also dopamine that plays a key Those rat experiments might be extreme cases. But you can see similar effects dopamine has In fact, your brain develops priorities in expecting to get. If an activity releases too little dopamine, But if an activity releases a lot of dopamine, So which behaviors release dopamine? Any activity where you anticipate there's But if you know there are no immediate rewards For example, before you eat comfort food, anticipate that the food will make you feel Even if it actually makes you feel worse. That's because your brain doesn't even care to you. It just wants more of it. A stereotypical example would be someone who's He knows that what he's doing is not good But all he wants is to get more of that drug. Besides getting you high, cocaine and heroin in turn makes you crave them even more. Of course it has to be noted that nearly everything Even drinking water when you're thirsty, does. But the highest dopamine release happens when One such example is playing on a slot machine Even if you've only been losing money until bigger reward. You just don't know when it could happen. And our brains with unnaturally high amounts of know it. Some examples of high dopamine behaviors include: video games, watching internet pornography, We anticipate some sort of reward with each That's why we're constantly checking our phones. We expect to see a text message or some other And we know that eventually we're going to We're becoming like those rats pulling the And you might think, &quot;Oh so what?&quot; &quot;It's not like it's harming me in any way.&quot; But you'd be wrong. Our bodies have a biological system called It means that our body likes to keep internal Whenever an imbalance occurs, our body adapts Let me give you an example: When it's cold And as a result, we start shivering to generate However when it's hot outside, our body temperature And we start sweating to lose some of that Essentially our body is looking to maintain or 98 degrees Fahrenheit, no matter what. But there is another way homeostasis manifests And that is through tolerance. For example, someone who rarely drinks alcohol, But someone who drinks on a regular basis, body has developed a tolerance to it. Essentially it takes more and more alcohol less sensitive to its effects. And it's not much different with dopamine. Your body tries to maintain homeostasis, so Essentially your brain gets used to having your new normal. Thus you develop a dopamine tolerance. This can be a huge problem, because the things interest you any longer. And it's much more difficult to motivate yourself They feel boring and less fun, because they the things that do release it in high amounts. That's why people tend to prefer playing video studying or working on their business. Video games make us feel good and comfortable, Sadly things like working hard or reading, This is one of the reasons why drug addicts who a normal life. Their dopamine tolerance gets so high that They become like those rats from previous if there's not enough dopamine release. And it's not just drug addicts. People who are addicted to video games, social same thing. Once their dopamine tolerance gets too high, behaviors. Which begs the question: Is there anything The answer is you need to perform a dopamine By now might already have an idea what dopamine What you're going to do is set aside a day, stimulating activities. You're going to stop flooding your brain with to let your dopamine receptors recover. Just a disclaimer: If you're suffering from professional help, as you've probably formed And I don't want you to experience any extreme Now back to the detox. For 1 whole day you will try to have as little You won't be using the internet, or any technology You're not allowed to listen to music, you're Basically you're going to remove all sources You're going to embrace boredom. And trust me, there will be a lot of boredom. You are however allowed to do the following: Meditate and be alone with your thoughts. Reflect on your life and goals. Write down any ideas you get. Not on your computer or phone, but on a physical All of this might seem quite intense. But if you want radical results and you want Now you might be asking yourself: Why would You can think of it this way. Let's say that you've been eating every single As a result, what happened is that those fancy If someone offered you a bowl of plain rice, It simply wouldn't taste as good as your usual But if you suddenly find yourself stranded suddenly that bowl of plain rice doesn't seem And that is what the dopamine detox does. It starves you of all the pleasure you usually activities more desirable. To put it simply: Dopamine detox works because more fun. Now if you don't want to take such extreme you can perform a smaller dopamine detox. You're going to pick one day of the week, your high dopamine behaviors completely. Whatever that behavior might be. Maybe checking your phone all the time, playing TV, eating junk food, watching internet pornography, And from now on, every single week for one You can still do other things, but the behavior Yes, you will feel slightly bored, but that's You want to let your dopamine receptors recover been flooding your brain. And boredom is going to propel you to do other Things that you would normally put off, because And because you're bored, it's easier for Of course avoiding high dopamine behavior But ideally you should avoid those behaviors Instead you want to connect more dopamine And what I found is that your current high to pursue things, that actually give you those In other words, you could use your high dopamine And this is exactly what I do myself. I track all the difficult, low dopamine work Cleaning my apartment, practicing the piano, creating these videos, etc. After I'm able to get a certain amount of of high dopamine activity at the end of the The key words here are: after, and, at the If I indulge in high dopamine behavior first, low dopamine work. I'm simply not going to be motivated enough. So I always start with the difficult things, dopamine activities. To give you an example: For every completed with 15 minutes of high dopamine behavior That means that for 8 hours of low dopamine, behavior. Of course, these are my ratios. You can tweak them to your liking. Also it has to be noted that if you're addicted then you don't want to treat that behavior Instead find a different reward, that's not One that you still think is worth the effort. And if you're wondering what my guilty pleasure I can easily get lost there for hours without That's why I have this system. It's so I'm able to control my addiction. But make no mistake, even with this system, dopamine activities completely. To conclude this video I want to say that feel easier. But when your brain is getting so much dopamine working on something that doesn't release That's why you might want to limit your phone dopamine releasing behavior. And I can tell you that it's definitely worth So if you have motivation problems, start Separate yourself from the unnaturally high to it far less frequently. Only then will normal, every day, low dopamine be able to do them for longer. We are all dopamine addicts to a certain extent. And that's a good thing, because dopamine ourselves. But it's up to you to decide where you're Are you going to get it from things that don't Or are you going to get it from working on The choice is yours. If you enjoyed this video, I would really It helps out my channel a lot, as the almighty kinds of videos and it shows my content to This allows more people to start improving As always, thanks for watching, and I hope