Chip ultra clusters ultra servers chip about developer tools. Let's start with the ultra cluster. about this? in one single area of the AI hardware. What will it offer? building together with our partners, several hundred thousand chips training em two chips. deliver them five times more compute training. they're able to accomplish and and and much more capable A.I. Do we have a US location? early 2025? What, then, of the technical challenges? difficult this is in terms of cooling, What has been the things that you have Yeah, well, the first core innovation is and so we've built around CHIP. excited about the performance that we And that's combines all in these really uranium chips, all to deliver 83 And so that is the first innovation is gives us really unparalleled performance And then we build these together with build in-house. and heating and the data centers. silicon down at the level and we make sure that we can control everything Can you talk to us a little bit, Compare This is about less dependency on Nvidia Doing an alternative for your clients. get? they get? like to think of it as a supplement to fantastic product. executing. workloads are going to continue to run But customers want choice and they want cost options. for many workloads them to and give benefits over today's GPU powered And so we think that that's a huge win looking to lower the cost of general AI But we'll be great partners with NVIDIA great technologies together with them available training three in the works. moment as estimated, has about 95% Do you agree with that? area do you think that that will come Yeah. that. on in general of air today run on in absolutely been the leaders in that But we do think we hear from customers And just with with our processors where AMD. purpose processor called Graviton, and customers. lots of AMD processors in our cloud grow. will continue to grow from our customers powerful. generative AI usage, I think there's multiple different people to be The key partner is Intel. change at the top? I wish Pat the best. he's been a good partner of ours, but long time. first Intel instance when. And we'll continue to be great partners technology team there. roll out the latest technologies from use and have been continuing to roll Last time you were on, we were talking Of course, many have been frustrated, there. will be unfolding and how difficult has there? manufacturing things that they're going it. looks at Blackwell look fantastic. gain in the compute power that you get And so I think it'll be a really those out. early next year and we're excited about We'll get them out there as soon as Investors, though, that they find it that's going on. think, oh, we want to see in video offerings? swallow or do you think ultimately there in video winning or. If you think about us, we started from partnership mindset, and we built the about how AWB would have services and that there's plenty of space for all of businesses. it's true for service providers and it's And so I think that we've proven time that AWB can have products and our And then as we make them all available, bigger. opportunity for both. for a fun narrative that it's either or, We will continue to be and this is all We love for narratives as journalists large language models. saying that the Nova offering compares when it comes to multimodal multimodal, efficiency perspective. when you already offer the rest? And again, this is all about giving I think we as Amazon were investing in the exact right mix of capabilities and internally. And as we started building these, we saw actually getting quite good. were seeing some some good capabilities And and our models are quite good in They're very good at executing a genetic They're really good at pulling knowledge And they're very, very low latency and And so we think that that capability is of use cases. even inside of Amazon, we use a mix of We use models from anthropic, we use models from a bunch of different And so I think that hopefully customers models. going to combine a lots of different You haven't yet got the access to open relationship with Microsoft. point unfold? customers demand something that And I think Openai obviously has a great And I'm sure many of our customers would as well, and we'd love to support those And, you know, I think I'd look at and And over the long term, we'd like to of Amazon and inside of us to use. are out there, we'd love to offer them there we'd love to offer and make sure Every service that everyone else and make available. story. believe that we would love open air Yes, we would. It's, you know, where we listen to our And if that's something that customers Obviously, with a partnership, it takes some complexities in there, as you But but I think in the fullness of time, now. that air is already a multi-billion 100%. numbers as to how large the offering is Yeah, you're right. us and it's really growing rapidly to lots of customers are building. on top of bedrock has grown the number So it is it's really a rocket ship I think what's really exciting is that proof of concepts, but they're using it own enterprise data and to launch and is is is a particularly telling sign of it's evolved to and clients willing to But we've got a new administration Do you see any concerns in terms of, relationship with TSMC, for example? worked with with various administrations IWC has been around. this administration. interested in ensuring that we have ton of opportunity here. And I think all administrations are that we're able to drive the economy And IWC is a big enabler of that. new administration. anxiously watching all of the to make sure that we're trying to possible from any eventuality. cautiously optimistic that that we're in You might have been cautiously watching amid your own event. Sorry I missed that. So just. you, so. But in terms of the South Korean was a worry there. region in South Korea and we have many Korea. and operate with with whatever whichever