- Today we're gonna talk about how the world is brewing and nearly 40,000 of you on how you're brewing. And what's cool is actually so not only can we talk about but we can talk about Here's how the video's gonna work. At the start, we're gonna Where are you? And how What kind of recipes are you using? At the end of that, I'm gonna make the world's most average espresso, which will not be average Then we're gonna dive into some that we can pick apart from this data, like, does the way you make Does the amount of money change the way you make espresso? Do professionals approach dialing in differently than home users? And we can also put to rest the question, are boomer shots real? Now, this was so much data to analyze that I actually ended up roping to help me with this, so Firstly, Dr. Samo Smrke from Frederick Ho from the and also an anonymous let's just call them Naddlebee. Now, this video is full of information, but I promise you, we've picked some super, Let's start with who you are. Of the responses, 88.5% and only 11.5% of you were professionals. Nearly 50% of you who and just over 28% of you are 35 to 44. I tell you what, I was pleased who are under 18, and 284 of you over 65. So it's good to know start young and end late. If you look at the little you'll see that the responses the UK, Australia, and Germany. But the thing that makes me we got responses from The one that surprised me most was the single response from North Korea. We did ask about experience, and Italy had the most They had, on average, But the home baristas in Italy averaged 4.06 years of experience. Now, we'll put the numbers responded in those segments, of how small the data sets are. Obviously people in Italy is its own skewing of the data, but I think that that gap was interesting. As a comparison point, where the pros were at sort but the home baristas at 7.04. So, much closer. Pretty much everywhere, than home baristas. The most experienced home Now, we did ask you about and one of the questions was about the burr type in your grinder. And so here, 56.1% said And I don't know what I was expecting, I thought conicals would be it actually is higher because So you have to add that So technically, 67% of you 44% of you using a flat burr grinder. Conicals being cheaper, I thought they would be more dominant. This is a kind of more even When it comes to espresso 78.2% of you are using a Spring levers, not particularly popular, but manual levers where you're A few of you have more Nearly half of you have So these under $200, and gets close to 50%. 24.1% of you have spent on a coffee grinder. The higher dollar amounts are interesting. The only other thing on the pie is 10.5% of people have a grinder built into the coffee machine. And that's a number that I didn't think that they were making up maybe 10% of the market, to Breville-Sage's success. Speaking of machines, we did There's not many machines out of what, you know, made up this survey. 27% were $200 to $500, and 26% pretty much were $500 to $1,000. That's sort of putting on par in some ways. Obviously, it's gonna But historically, people invested in machines, but Looking at this, it makes me feel good that people maybe are Let's talk about roasting, And then making up the three mediums, which would be medium light, well, that made up very I think I thought there'd be more light, and I think I thought there'd And dark and very dark are So medium as it is, extremely dominant when it comes to espresso, Medium light, the biggest which says this is focused audience first and foremost. So let's look at how We asked you for four The amount of ground coffee the weight of the liquid your minimum acceptable brew time, and your maximum acceptable brew time. The kind of window of tasty Let's start with the dose, It's really the winner I'll start making a little in a second, but the So I'm just gonna use 18. Now, let's look at the way the beverage ratio if you will, 2:1 So the espresso weighs two times as much as the ground coffee does, You can see 2.2 also quite tiny little spike at three, Actually people pulling a So, you know, 20 gram dose in, yielding 20 grams of liquid espresso. That is a short, short, So I think we need to look at the actual beverage weights used. You'll see 40 is in fact the and that's because lots 2:1, that's 20 in 40 out. And then a lot of people are Looking at this data, one of is that we culturally, when our espressos are You'll see there are spikes So we like 30, 32, 34. We like fives though, 36, 38, 40, 42, 44, 45. The implication to me is that not based on taste, but based The average output here is 38.76 grams. So that average ratio of 2.16:1, and that, that's what I'm gonna brew. Now, as for brew time, 25 to 35 seconds really was massively dominant which puts the midpoint, at 30 seconds Cheers What it would be to live in a world where this was the average. That was very tasty, no real surprise. Now, this whole thing has There's been so much data, lost in it and lose focus But actually, I haven't because one of the things and attention is Headspace, And I wanna tell you how in this short ad. Headspace helps its users like reducing stress, finding more focus, getting better sleep, and more. For many of us, we don't need that meditation might be helpful. The challenge has been building the habit, and that's where Headspace because there's not just If you wanna work on a beginner's guide, if you wanna just have a if you wanna do some walking meditations, or just something to help you sleep, it's all kind of there in the app. There's vast libraries and different kinds of doesn't have to be just It's not necessarily what you think it is, it can be so much more. I've struggled over the years that is desperate to distract itself from whatever I'm trying to get it to do. Meditation for me has been hugely helpful, but I'm also aware that what works for me, a morning meditation, may or time of day that works for you. Again, there's loads of If you wanna see how Headspace then there is a limited time only offer of 40% off your membership. All you have to do is that's on screen, or the link Thank you to Headspace We should look at how it's changed from how we were brewing The ground coffee dose has come down. Back then, the average And doses of 21, 22 were as you can see, yet 18 was but it wasn't as dominant as it is now. You could argue, increasing coffee prices may have played a role in that. As for the beverage weight, We're actually pulling The average has gone from just under 36 to creeping up towards 39, It's a few grams, but it's And so, the ratio has shifted as well. It went from 1:1.92, to 1:2.16. Now, I've been thinking about because, in some ways, It's not that roasts have looking back at 2015, that we're probably using That was kind of peak specialty coffee, perhaps a little bit too light. And I think roasts in some ways have drifted darker since that time. So it's not driven by that. And the other reason to might be the equipment isn't as good. And equipment's gotten better, And if anything, that should because equipment has gotten Think about the domestic wasn't good compared to what it is now, which is frankly incredible. So why are we pulling longer shots? And part of me thinks or we just enjoy that style, it's kind of in trend right now. I don't know, if you have a thought, leave it down there in the comments below. Let's get into the super interesting stuff that we found in all the data. And I wanna start with something that was found by Dr. Samo Smrke. This is a heat map of specifically home baristas. Along the bottom, you've got and that's the midpoint between the kind of ends of your window. And then up the side, And you'll see that home incredibly focused on Like, that is so incredibly dominant that it barely looks like a heat map. Let me compare this to Firstly, that red box is much But actually, all around it, that kind of heat map is brighter. What he suggested is that professionals have a more nuanced And I think it's probably true, but for kind of different reasons. If you're a pro barista, your job is to pull the best espresso that you can within the So if you're dialing in, or four or five, hopefully different attempts at dialing in the grind to get the espresso At home, you don't have For most people, you've got 250 to work with from that one bag. You just can't be wasting that's not a possibility. And so, pro baristas are using recipe to optimize for flavor. But many home baristas, to kind of get to good as simply and as reliably as possible. It's a kind of framework for brewing, rather than the outcome Also notable though was from Frederick Ho that looked split by non-professionals, and professional baristas I suppose it is there. Professionals brew a faster espresso. Now, we've just said they're but you've got to remember that, in a cafe, there's another pressure. It's not just got to taste great, you've got to make it And so, actually the difference and a 35 second shot is a massive impact on a So it's no surprise to me to That's what this chart is showing, across every potential ratio, professional baristas just brew faster. You might've argued 10 years ago that they had better equipment, better grinders, better espresso machines. I'm not sure that's true anymore. This chart, well, it's This is a kind of equipment Now, for equipment cost, Samo where he created an index based on the two different So if you, you know, both of your grinder and your espresso machine were under $200, that'd be the lowest index. If both of your, you know, the top price, they were and kind of built up a kind What we see here is very clear, that at the beginning of your journey, your equipment is the cheapest. No one is surprised by that. But the next five years, The increase in spend is pretty rapid. Upgraditis is real, not surprising. You get into a hobby, you wanna That trend kind of continues And you see this sort of steep increase. From 10 years, the increase is So upgraditis is kind of and then it kind of chills of your coffee experimentation career. Is that good news? You tell me. But let's look at that same Here we've just got demographic which age demographic Let's look at that, and You'll see that, again, the cheaper your equipment is. But actually, by the you've kind of hit a ceiling. And maybe that's the point at which you're gonna stop spending But does the equipment you use change the way you make espresso? Let's look at the ratios used and you'll see the average So a little bit longer. If you compare it to the that drops down to 2.09. So, yes, cheaper equipment does seemingly require a longer ratio. The difference though, just not that dramatic. Now, this next chart might And I'm definitely reading but I think it's fun. This is the size of the acceptable time It starts pretty small and you like time constraints That makes sense, but it kind of peaks, the window peaks at the 35 to 44 demographic. Now, you could argue two things. You could argue, maybe at that point, you're just the most open-minded Or, perhaps more likely, work or family or other you know, a little time constraint. Could it be that they just If that is the case, I'm at the same age demographic right now. I kinda like the idea the window closes back down again. Maybe you've got a bit more and get it just how you like it. Now, I did say we'd talk might influence the way you brew espresso because I had conflicting Let's take flat burrs as the standard, and look at conical burr users. Would they have shorter because conical burrs tend to produce espressos with more texture? And if you really like you might like a shorter ratio. But you could argue maybe conical burrs would need longer ratios conical burrs aren't, generally as effective at extracting. And so, you might need to get a more balanced espresso. Would there be any Well, it turns out that, yeah, the first one was maybe the more correct. Conical burrs were used to 2.14, compared to flat So almost no difference whatsoever. Okay, let's look at this was interesting because by pros and home baristas. You'll see that, as you might expect, lighter roasts used longer ratios. And as you look at here, there in the approach towards lighter roasts. And it kind of, in the medium and, yeah, very dark roasts If you look at In fact, you know, the very dark has an even shorter ratio here. But the actual sample pulling very dark and could skew the data. But if you do a regression on this, you get these fun charts The implication, as far as I'm concerned, is that generally speaking, to this piece of knowledge the longer the ratio, the darker the roast, You know, darker roasts And people seem to broadly understand and work along that kind of rule. Let's look at that same Let's lump everyone together, and just break it out by So starting with light roast, you can see a pretty long beverage ratio. You can see a big spike at three to one, and also two and a half to one. So people are pulling even though there are some doing 1:1s, which was genuinely surprising to me. As you go to medium light, 2.17 is the average there. If you go to medium, it's a And, again, the distribution Medium dark, kind of the same. Medium, medium dark, you could argue, picking apart those two is really difficult to do. And who really sets the boundaries It's a flaw in the survey, I get that. You get to dark roast, it gets And then very dark roast, I think at a ratio of And that big spike of 1:1 ratio, truly ristretto-style stuff, Let's talk about the boomer spro. Now, you may not be familiar and that's perhaps a good thing. If you're not terminally one of the many coffee communities, this may have passed you by. But there is the idea that do like a shorter shot than is I wanted to know, is that really a thing? And there's an interesting I wanted to ask the question, how does your coffee making And this data genuinely surprise me. You can look at sort of beverage ratios, and then experience across And you can see that regardless the averages pretty much stay That was really, really interesting. You could argue that there's no evolution in how you make a coffee with time, or there hasn't been so far. That seems contrary to my but that's what the data says. It sort of implies that that's kind of predetermined Let's look at the ratios the boomers, they have a 2.09 ratio. That's pretty short. As we go younger, how will it change? Well, looking at the age group before, it gets a little bit longer at 2.11. And then another age group, it goes a little bit longer again. And then to 35 to 44, goes The trend seems to be holding true. 25 to 34, a little bit longer again. It's just trending in this direction, 18 to 24, the longest shots by far. But because everything is a cycle, we must look at the under-18s. And there, there is a great surprise because there, we see an And so you could argue, there but there is also zoomer espresso. And I hate myself for but it is what it is, that's what it is. Two things to note, one, the median on the boomer So you could argue that is or a different distribution, it's really pretty close. A more important caveat how we had to clean this data. We had 39,425 responses, and a good number were bad. They were incorrect, the inputs made no sense. That meant that how you clean the data will change the data you So someone else read a but didn't find exactly the same numbers because they'd cleaned the Let's move on, weighing one of the best ways to control and understand espresso brewing. You know, it's one of those things that I cannot recommend enough. And we did ask, how 1.2% of respondents, right? Which is not a huge number actually. A few hundred people just they're putting in their What did surprise me, and it surprised me, is that 12.5% of people aren't weighing their liquid espresso out. Now, the implication is that are weighing the amount of their espresso machine, I think that's good. But there are still, in this who just aren't really controlling And I figure, 'cause this I'll just give away 20 So there'll be a link to a competition in the description down below. And please only enter if And I'll pick 20 people that we can actually ship them to, and I'll send out 20 espresso scales. So thanks again to Headspace There's a QR code on screen, once again. I just thought that'd Seriously, if you're not weighing do it, it's so helpful, it's so helpful. I will say a very large thank who contributed to this survey. 39,425 of you took the time and I'm incredibly grateful. There's ways I'd improve And if you want us to do maybe ask some different If there's things that maybe that you think are really obvious and should have been asked, let me know down the comments below. We're thinking about trying to of all the charts and stuff, just so you can look at We're not gonna share the data raw because we don't have who did that to do that. We said it wouldn't share it, be monetized or sold to So we're not gonna dump but we will share some of this stuff. I'll probably put it in So it would help, you know, you'll see it kind of pop And that's it, maybe we'll add when we've had a chance And maybe we'll include that you might have asked But for now, I wanna say thank and I hope you have a great day.