Last time I used the Pro Guide website, on every track. Today, we are doing the opposite Rock Mountain is a great bagging track because of we are going to be frontrunning. Look at the the idiot going forward to make sure everyone's depend on your distance to first place. You're a good time here. Okay, they don't want me to And I also got a lot of comments to do this this is just some silly little challenge. But then because sometimes on bagging tracks, especially on running. And sometimes on running tracks, you have it's actually really good to be able to do both Okay, yeah, um, I did that a little bit too late. That's definitely one of my weaknesses, but Yes! Okay, I kind of wanted triple mushrooms, but again. I'm just gonna hope there's no blue I think I'm just going to get passed anyway. Yeah, So you land, hop once, mushroom. [Music] Oh wow, mushroom, there's a blue shell. That sucks. my banana's still there. But yeah, this is not because I was in the glider. Okay, so I'm still in used my coin a little bit too late, I could have gonna get a mushroom and win. Come on. [Music] way to run this track in--Oh wait, I'm in first. just going to do this. Oh, I tried to trick, it it just skipped everybody. Okay, no. Yes. No! luck ever, but that's actually pretty common at 'cause everyone's got items and you don't. So is a runner, or more specifically, a shroomer. You coming up right here, and then you'll just be But I am going to bag. And I've actually made Stadium, and both times I chose to run because I and I refused to bag on this track. But then one I'm actually going to do it this time. I'm video and bag. Look at this, I'm going to go on this track and I just missed them. We're going make it so hard to get the coin sometimes. If missed all the coins, but if you play Mario Kart up your line. That coin's hard to get. Okay, so focus mode. I could actually win this. Let's take 10 coins, perfect. I'm going to shock right now. got one item. That's not good. [Music] I'm gonna messed up. And I have a bullet. I have a bullet item set. No mini turbo. Okay, that's fine, that's is so close to me. Hold up, hold up. Let's go. why you got to do that to me? Okay, I'm not on the This is bad. Yeah, everyone's passing me. Wait, I won that. You know what? Sometimes you can win plot armor! I do not expect this one to go nearly strategy first. Either someone else is gonna draft drift a bit. Yeah, and then I'm gonna try and up. Okay, it's fine. So yeah, that's the strategy step one, and then step two is you find out it is you're already at the front, or even if you're at this is gonna be good practice just to do all the get coins here before it becomes too difficult blue shell, let's just toss that. Let's increase Cause they can only show up every 30 seconds, so another one is going to show up at some point. And a single mushroom from the--Okay, nice, nice. I messed up. Alright, that's fine, that's fine. A far behind, they might be bots right now, maybe we're going to um-- we're just going to make sure sloppy right now, I hardly ever play Sherbet Land my L button ready, they're throwing it forward, hold this star, using it at the next item set or please, there's been no shock all race. What am I kind of working. [sighs] I'm so disappointed right that I practice 100%. You're going to see a lot of track. Most tracks are some form of running track, shroomer, that also means it's a running track. start in first place because it's better to or a mushroom to take you into the front at the track. So Cloudtop Cruise is no different. which is pretty common like most tracks are please. That's not good. There's a bullet glider. And I need all the help I can get because the boost panels. But as always, there is a bit track. Doesn't mean it's better than running, but can get out of bagging. And for me here, I can section without an item. So on lap three, if I can that's gonna be so good for me. Okay, so we use This is what you get for grabbing an item in of people here. Oh, I'm in fourth. Bagging works item. I'm the first person who got an item here. Goodbye. Oh, I didn't hit him. You have a unless they hit the banana. Okay, we go for red left. Not quite. Don't trap the shortcut. Bagging is a lot better than I thought, even Bagging is pretty good. Maple Treeway is correct strategy again first and then switch to I don't know if I can get a draft at this point. can draft me. Yeah, I'm too far for a draft here, it's a drafter. I just did it wrong. I'm honestly work on that, but we're gonna make sure I get most important at the start, I just need coins to get coins on this track 'cause the coins show grab three coins at once unless you're going nice. I don't have the bullet spots pulled up spot. Okay, oh, I think I know, actually, but I it's like around here. Let's just use it right nice. Does it get me around the next turn? No. Oh, just unlocked the memory. [laughs] Okay, that's Gonna save this for the shortcut at the start. I hit the villager. Let's go! Oh, I have another that was hidden by the bush. [laughs] Oh, that Oh, I'm still getting good items. Mushroom a shock like no one's chaining an item right the shock right now. [Music] Okay, let's just no shock this race. I got fifth. I definitely shock. I don't even have to dodge it, I just need I am tired of all these running tracks. Give bagging tracks instead of doing this, which game has too many running tracks, but even when for bagging sometimes. Bagging just kind of works. It's kind of what you want to do in bagging, track. I'm in a decent spot right now, 10 coins, we're going to use the star and take out the blue shell! That sucks. Okay, now I'm no longer person with the fireflower. Let's throw that. I'm Okay, yes, let's go that was so worth it. And I [Music] I'm just gonna hold these mushrooms, okay, corrected the line. That was not good, but What? Okay, stay to the side. Oh, this is so okay, this is actually good. A lot of and I'm not small for that long. Let's go, let's I'm in third. Wow, lap four blue shell dodge end of a track is as chaotic as DK Jungle, I guess happening anyway. I'm running on Waluigi Stadium. so we're going to see if the best strategy works But I mean, pulling the shock is pretty lucky. drive on Waluigi Stadium. Let's go. Shroomless we're continuing with the theme of this video. shortcut. Oh, fire? Okay, fire in the pack is Get rid of you guys. Yes, yes, yes. What? How many but it's still hard to dodge fire because you line. And also, first place couldn't drive, so I'm watching the mini-map here. [gasps] There's a blue on. I even hit--[laughs] let's just pretend I did Nintendo! but really that was a skill issue. Uh, know what? I'm not too far behind. Terrible Drop this right here. Get a coin. Oh, I got a Boo? mushroom--I'm going to use all these mushrooms. but I'm more interested in dodging the shock. All right, didn't get it. Let's go! Let's go, the but first place is right there. I could totally I can't even get an item. Someone dodged been what just happened, 'cause okay, somehow we're in first. Get the double item What? What wha--Where did they go? [laughs] It's a track where there's not really a wrong strategy a drafter. So I'm like almost in first right now. see if I can get a draft after landing from here, quite, they moved. Why did they move like that? anyway, so because there's not really a wrong but the worst strategy by a little bit and that is the worst strategy by a little bit, just going to go up for coins right here. Oh, nice, bullet. There's already a blue shell. All right, we're gonna grab an item right here. in the front gets so far away, and it counts happened. It's very unlikely someone dodged another shock for 30 seconds, and I can just and I'm going to use this right after the and it drops you off right before the next item I usually don't want to get a purple mini turbo gonna pass too many people, maybe. That's fine. I didn't realize it was that close. It's okay. It works! Bagging works on every track, let's be red shelled too many times. There's a banana right I wasn't gonna hit it. I noticed it early. I swear slip when I land. Okay, let's--oh, the traction. ask and you shall receive. First place actually I can't believe I won this race. Another is Japanese. I'm not even kidding. I played like to get a bagging track. Couldn't do it, and then and then now I've finally gotten a bagging track So I'm getting lag trailed, that's what I deserve. not. Get a coin here. Failed. Okay, so we're the other video where I did the correct strategy, we are going to run and see how this goes. I'm got bumped off. Keep going forward! [laughs] It's I just cannot get coins. You know what? I could too quick, I couldn't react. Okay, okay, went as running. Grab this person's coins. Grab these. two. Nice. Okay, so part of why this is a bagger just want more items, I don't care about these items in fifth! That is crazy. Okay, the blue it. Slow down. Oh, oh, slow down. That was way too Actually, I'm gonna use it now. Someone might use this now to--oh, I have more dodges. That's like bagging in fourth! [laughs] This is crazy! Someone just get the shock, please. What is going Whatever, I'm invincible more! Yes, finally, it a spot for that. Wow, no, I still got third. there in the multiverse, I won that race. That was I'm just not even bothering with the running the bagging tracks. I want to win by running on a but oh well. I will try my best. Need to--oh, I get coins here, and since I'm in first, I'm not going to use my coin item, and this is not a is bagging. The fact that I'm so far ahead just Nintendo, for punishing running, punishing skill. if blue shell happens before shock, I actually Actually, okay, blue shell's coming. It's going that sucks. Let's run into this thing. Can't do That's crazy. I'm still small. Okay, jeez, took a don't think we need the super horn anymore. I want What am I doing? Drifted the wrong way. Mushroom, my red shell, so they couldn't--oh no, what? Take I ran on a bagging track and it worked! Everyone be this good! What kind of sick, twisted fate guess the universe didn't like the result of last somehow we ended up safe in that interaction. have a coin item too. We're both set here. Coin that up. I wanted a mini turbo, but then I forgot no, I'm gonna prove that wasn't a fluke. Oh, that they were gonna be on the other side. Okay, this I have a bullet. I'm running. I have a bullet. Oh, oh, you took both coins. What? What? I can't Okay, I don't know if the bullet gets the coins coins first and then use the bullet, because I can't get that one. Okay, we're I'm at nine. I'm at nine. This could be okay. We it. I don't know if anyone has it. They might Okay, we need a miracle here to win this one. made it to Cheese Land! I'm gonna frontrun on kidding. Okay, it's over. I didn't get an item. should be there with them, increasing my chances a green shell, and there was a red shell behind at this point, even if I decided to run, this is kind of already over. I'm in a horrible--yeah, forward, grab some coins. Yeah, so usually, even with like even a blue shell dodge item, I've done win from that position is about 0.0%. So, I the worst time to grow. Everything's not going running, but I'm kind of cheesing the challenge a second shock--if I stay far enough behind, I can I am technically running. I never slowed down, the benefits of bagging still I want to be able no. Okay, I did not press A for like two seconds place is dead. Oh, okay, I can't even take this I got red shelled anyway. All right, now for coins again. I have to play it a bit safe someone's coming up with a bullet. Stay two mushrooms for the final shortcut. Let's I can't take the shortcut, but also a lot of slowed down. If I can get one mushroom here, lucky. Don't come for me. Wow, if I didn't get