I've built a massive and we're going to see can survive in this cube They have never met each other ever. Bailey. This is Suzie. - Suzie, this is Bailey. Hi! Nice to meet you. If the two of you can survive I will give you the half a million But if one of you leaves before the 100 All right. I think you - Have fun. This is going to be crazy. Yeah. This is actually like an insane They're currently looking at all We gave them enough food which is healthy, over and over again. We also gave them their own private bathroom, and obviously has no cameras inside They have everything It's just a question of do I got a comb. I don't know if Interesting. See how they're both standing They're so awkward. When I had them That was legitimately I just keep thinking of the feeling of exiting. Oh, yeah? How good is that going to feel? It's only a 100 sleeps. Only 100 sleeps. And then the world will have just That's like, what freaks me out. The most interesting in this room, you have no idea And already night one. Suzie and Bailey made the mistake which means they started I'm just going to just act like - Okay, what do you want to eat? - Chicken. That is sickening. It's good. As you can see, living inside Besides eating the same thing over and over, time in the chamber trying to hide The lights are just so bright, to shield ourselves. And desperate attempts to keep themselves entertained. Like on day four, from their journals Is he making... Cards? All right. I think that they actually Which honestly looked pretty fun. So I made myself a $30,000 seat On day five, which was really just What is it? You have to sign our sign in sheet. Oh, these are our camera people. Yeah, this is everyone Wait a minute. You're having them do this so you can track the date Hold up, I need to borrow this. No, no, I wrote the date. I wrote the date. Which I got to say was pretty smart. But by the time we got to day seven, anything considered Bailey's lost it. He's whipping the pork. Yeah. The veggies never stood a chance. Five more throws. But I only need one. Let's freakin go, baby. It's actually crazy to me of this challenge, they're that if they cross, they lose It is now day number ten. How you doing, Nolan? Good. And I got a pretty What is it? So it looks like they took and 250 on his to remind themselves The whole door How's it going? We're about to reveal the most I need you two to just face this wall. They don't even know Let's do this. This is their first time seeing You are kidding me. The sky. Every ten days, that will make the challenge easier. But if you actually want it, you have to pay for it And first, for day ten, we're going to give you that'll cook you and the end of the challenge Before you answer, if you want to give up we're gonna let Use this as a floor as to what you could be eating for You are kidding me. 50 grand a lot, though. Okay, let's not think about it These look like some people for ten days. I love just looking at the sky. You forget that they literally Now I feel bad. After eating this, is like grossing me out even worse. It's rough. They're starting to talk about - I don't know what to do. This is a good first one to tempt us - Oh, no. All right. Would you pay $50,000 to have this - Nope. Really? I honestly didn't - Oh, no, no. I have another offer in ten days. We'll see if you cave, then. I really thought - That was crazy. I'm really curious about I know, I'm proud of us Good job. And now, with the chef gone, it seemed like Suzie to regret their decision. Bon appetit. My favorite part is And it stays on the plate. The next few days were Their routine consisted and then eventually Man, the longer I'm in here, the more I feel like I'm sharing Are you talking about me? Who else? And even though they were getting they weren't getting used to were It's just so bright in there. I came in the bathroom because So it's nice and like dark in here. Once it gets super late at night, just because of how bright and because it was so hard I had the perfect offer Congrats, you're 20% done. Are you two ready for the offer? - Yeah. Your day 20 offer is simple. I will give you each a smart bed and combined will cost I will also give you this iPad with the ability Dang. They have exactly one hour $50,000 of their prize money and the ability to turn off the lights. The answer might be yes. I haven't seen Suzie this happy the challenge. Let's remember what we would have Oh, my gosh. Oh, my gosh. I think they're going to take it. I think we should. It's only 10% of our money. It's decision Your 1 hour is up. This is what But if you say no, for 80 days straight. Do you want this comfortable beds? I'm actually okay with whatever you say. - Five, four. - Three. - Two, one. What's your decision? No. Really? Ok... Wow. I did not see that one coming. I think I made a mistake, maybe. Oh, what a heavy mistake. I cannot believe you guys said no. I'll leave you alone I hope you don't regret - Bye I think we made the right decision. I can't believe that in the heat of the moment I feel that slight regret right now. I don't. I feel no regret in your decision. So today I made my calendar, my mom's birthday. It's going to I'm so bored. I think that we're hitting a point where boredom is I woke up this morning so I just sat there and stared. What are you going to do with this money? I have a house, I was probably Oh, that's awesome. I want to pay off my parents debt. That would be like my ideal world. Throughout the following days, I made sure to not interrupt However, they missed from the outside world, like on day 24 when I overheard them Okay, if we add seasoning, I can On day 27, Suzie was craving coffee. I am a big coffee And on day 28, Bailey clearly needed So by day 30 I had the perfect plan It's now day 30 and - How's it going? Today's offer is simple. Each of these five items You can buy one phone call, your own coffee machine, spices, Or you can buy a monopoly You could buy one of them. This is tough, actually. Just let me know what you want. I'm so nervous. - This is a big decision. - It does sound kind of nice. - And then the seasoning. I'm doing this one I don't really care about that. Sick. Coffee would be nice, as like a treat every morning. I've made my mind up. Decision time. Are you buying Monopoly? - No. Gone. Are you buying the spices? - No. Are you buying the coffee? Does it come with cream or sugar? If you say yes in 3 seconds. - Yes. Yay Coffee! Are you buying Yes. Are you buying the phone calls? - No. We finally got you two to buy something. This feels good. Thanks for taking your money. Most expensive coffee 30 days in, we got something We caved. You're welcome. That's my closet. That's my bookshelf. I could stay another 70 days easy. And we still have $480,000 It's crazy. Over the next few days. Not a lot happened. - She's already preparing a meal. The most interesting thing was hurricane Idalia - Oh, no way. As you can imagine, So I'm How's it going? - Hello? Hey. I know I'm sorry it took so long. Hold up. Oh there we go. That was a long delay. You should be able to use You should have a hot shower. That's excellent. I'll see you tomorrow Oh, I'm so excited. The power's on. Look, it's light. Like it feels like cheerier. The lights are back on again. I just had a hot meal, hot shower. Life is finally looking up here. There's now day 40. - Can I come in? Your gift at no expense is this TV. But every single movie is $10,000 You have one hour to decide. This is crazy. We can watch this documentary about Nolan. We left Suzie and Bailey and told them we'd be back later, How about ten grand for all? I'll go ahead and tell you now, no. You might as well just come in here, set in our ways. Okay. The best I could do Can't do it. All right gang, come on in. Take every last one. I'll gladly keep this. Not any of the Hunger Games? I left the TV in the chamber of what they could have had. But little did I know An antenna is just a piece of metal. Rip this little wire off the wall. So I had to take this knife I literally just plugged it Now we're going to see if it works. Just anything. Give us one channel. What? It says that there's seven digital Oh, my gosh. If this actually works... Wait. - I'm like actually shaking. Currently the only thing is a race car race. - Never really been a fan. But today, all of a sudden, we're Our time is going to fly by. And Suzie was right that's all they did. Having the TV It's like almost normal life. It is my mom's birthday tomorrow, to spend the day with her. I got some time in here to make her Although I didn't go out and buy spending money on it. Tomorrow is day 50, to do streamers It's day 50. Oh hey! So what do you think I have no idea. This one is a very big one. All right, so the offer for day 50 They're in the other room watching that feed and they can hear - Hey, I miss you guys. I'll be back in 10 minutes to hear Good luck. 10 minutes. This is like a pretty easy decision. What are your thoughts? Oh, my gosh. This might be the only chance in this challenge I think it's a So it's up to you on if we spend 20 grand for both. Of course. I want to see my parents too. It's killing me. He is a yes and she is a no. Mom, dad, tell me what to do. All right. What do you think? He's been a yes from the beginning. As soon as you said it. About 10 seconds left. But it's my mom's birthday today and All right. Best 10K ever spent, Okay. They paid the 20 grand. I'm so excited. It was a tough decision. I made you a birthday gift. And to celebrate her birthday, This is the best tasty thing It's little things like that you won't have Bye! Love you. Bye! That's the worst feeling so far. The highest of highs. And now back to our little cube Like I said earlier, them are based off of what we're overhearing them So you better believe that Probably the only thing I'd say yes to at You already know on day 60 I knew - How's it going? Oh, hey. First things first. Do the two of to keep Is either going to be the best moment of their life Just give me your answer in an hour. All right, 59 minutes remain in. I think we should. I know, I think it might be worth it. Imagine it is something Would it ever be a car? Well, it could be. It's not going to be equal She's right. I don't feel confident in the yes. Then let's say no. But are you sure? Yeah, if you're not confident. I just know - Yeah, they would. Yeah I feel like they could do anything. Wait, now you have me Decision time. Okay. Do you want to spend $50,000 Yes or no? No. Really? What is your answer? I'm going with no. - Really? I can't believe you guys - Do you want to unlock it? All right, inside is $50,000, so you And then you want to open up Here is a Tesla key for you I'm so sorry. They would have gotten their money Plus these two Teslas for free. Oh, I want to cry. Let's close this. That's literally my dream. We're going to head out. You leave their Beef. Thank you. Bye. - I feel defeated. Bailey... They got us Teslas. I feel like we made the wrong I'll regret this forever. - No. Oh, no, it's all a dream. I like my Prius. There, I said it. And after getting hit hard whined about the Tesla for nine days It's really hard to see the positive I actually won't be able to sleep. I'm actually feeling sick right now. I'm so mad. Suzie's taking it hard. And so to make up for it, I made sure this next offer It's day 70. Today's a big day So obviously on day 80, and on day 90 you're going to be like, - There's ten days left, correct? - Let me just open the doors. No shot you reject this offer. What you see here is everything Before I tell you the price tag, I'm I'm gonna make it as easy Nolan, just put those by the TV. As much as I love to Here's a bed. If you guys say no, all of this back out. Well, What you are considering buying A brand new mystery box. This one doesn't have 50 It has something else. Sounds like 25 grand. One phone called each, spices, in the Walmart movie aisle. And lastly, - There is a plate of food. And to remind you how good it is, here's some chicken alfredo. That looks so good. It's time to find out Behind these curtains is the number. If you bid higher than that number, for the rest of the challenge. But if you say $1, one penny lower, I'll give you an hour I'm thinking, what if it's like, way low I think if we've been 75, They're thinking at least 100 K. I actually feel like because we were prepared to say no That's true. But are you prepared And while they're deciding I want to tell you about the Shop app. The Shop app is the best way and it's completely free. It'll basically look at everything and recommend you products you love. This is the only wild card because we know what beds are We don't know what's in here. I have a feeling I want It's actually a third contestant. Help! And when you're ready to buy, check out using Shop Pay. Let's do this 80 grand 101, I don't want to go under 70. I feel like this gives us space. I get what you're saying. But imagine that was the reason why - Yeah. Shop app will even track so you'll know exactly A $100,000 and $100. Yeah. It's not really - This is it, this is the one. We're flipping it. I hope we get it. Let the Shop app AI assistant scan hundreds of millions of products to recommend these perfect gifts Time is up. What's the number? Let me see it. Before you do, make sure you If you haven't already, I explained all the benefits of it, it's Download the Shop app. Okay. What is your bid? If it's $1 below mine, $100,101. Chandler reveal it. 69. We get it! Yes! - You overpaid by 30. We get the bed! This is the most excited I've been so far. Oh my Gosh! And this mystery box, It's two smaller Teslas. No, I love this. I'll be teaming up with the Shop app to grant thousands of wishes I'll tell you more about it Our room feels drastically different - It's a dream. It's like a vacation. It's an investment for sure. I think it was well worth $100,000. You may think, Oh, but one of them may lose everything what I'm talking about. Oh my God, this is crazy. Now, you would think that getting would make both of them the opposite actually started One thing I took for granted on was a hot shower that I also did The hot water tank here Bailey always showers before me, so I've been stuck for honestly a couple of months now. We've been playing for like seven days like I maybe she just I think we need to take like three days All she ever does is read We got to have like a movie So whenever I'm like, She's like, Yeah. And then it never ends up happening. It's impossible to get her to focus. Hey, do you want to watch No, I don't want to watch We spent the last like 25 minutes And Suzie, Shower. Sorry. She literally Bailey is wired right now. This happens He's just nonstop, so energetic I just had to come in here That's a rave right there. Bailey, it's 3 a.m. Yeah, Oh, get me out of here. You're the worst. Do you want to play Monopoly? No. Do you know where the dice are? Yeah, I hid them So I was like, then we'll never be able to play. Your toes look so long. No, that's sickening. My dogs are barking. I would like to be saved. Mom, I'm ready to leave. Even though at this point With the end so close, and counted down the days. Four days left, three. And Bailey, well... It's going to be Really couldn't wait I wasn't in the middle All right. Day 99. For me, it feels like it's been I can't imagine I have to brush my teeth Ever 24 hours remain. - This many. So this is the first second of - Oh, my Gosh. I feel like I look Come on in, gentleman. Set it up right above the door. It's so exciting. You officially have 24 hours Don't forget what I said. We got a fun twist for tomorrow. I'm scared. You think they'll still be friends Depends I'm worried that it's He's so, like, quiet about it. - You can't guess. And with their final night It was time to present them with an Hey, everyone. This is chaotic. What is going on? I don't know. Big boy. I want to help, but not really. They're literally just taking everything. Do you know what these are? Those are blindfolds That was quick. I remember it like it was yesterday. If you would both Let's see Okay. Oh my gosh, my heart is actually 100 days ago, they were strangers. One hour ago they were best friends. Let's Bailey and Suzie, take your blindfolds off. So you might be familiar You each have the choice to split You both hit split. Keep what you have, or if you hit steal, you can steal And if you both hit Suzie has earplugs in and noise cancellation She can't hear us. I don't even know, Suzie What do you say to somebody Maybe you get ahead of it Fair. Do you hear that? Bailey actually might. All right. What if while we were over there, &quot;Oh, this is a no brainer. We would never speak again. You guys have become, like, I don't know. And when you've gone and like how hard this challenge has But now you're making me nervous. Like I could do it, too. What did she just say? Maybe it'll be a case of you I don't know. If both of them press the steal button, they literally spend 100 days for absolutely nothing. There's 30 seconds left in the I want you both to place your vote. Do you want to walk away No one speak. Karl and Kris, I know that Suzie is going to split, with almost $360,000, Do you want to split the money The fact that I entered this Three. Knowing that there would be pretty dark Two. And I still overcame all those things One. There's no price you can put on that. No way. If the room turns red, If the room turns green, You both chose split! Yes! Yes! Congratulations on surviving! - Yeah! There you go, there's your money! And like I said forget to download the Shop app. If you go on my store you can tell me whatever you want And I'm going to be fulfilling You can say Feastables bars, doesn't matter. I appreciate you so much. And as always, let's blow this place up.