- I have a list of the dumbest things rich people have ever bought. - These are smart financial decisions. - Well, not really. This guy spent over a hundred This guy bought a giant dino-mech suit, and this guy spent a - I don't even know what that is. - Starting with this - The idea here is the and minimally dilute your spirit. - Jimmy, I'd consider - This piece of ice will last giving you plenty of time to enjoy that velvety taste of the spirit. - Let's do the math. The ice costs a thousand dollars and it lasts 15 to 20 minutes. It's like $30 a minute. - No smell. No taste. - No smell. No taste. Yeah, that's frozen water. If only we had a way for 15 to 20 minutes. - Put it in the fridge, Two Chains. What are you doing? - No, he has like seven chains on. - Yeah, he's gotta rebrand. - Next up, we have a $30,000 - How is that practical? If someone were to rob that, - Your Honor, this wasn't a - You have to understand, for $30,000 I want that thing flying around. - You know what? Actually true. If this purse has an engine then it makes sense. This is a $50,000 hover golf cart. What is that? That's just a reg- - Oh! - Oh my god. - I was like, that's a normal golf cart. - What? - Let's have fun. Let's go through the water hazard. - Oh, no shot. - Wow. I need a second to process that. Maybe the old white men were right. Golfing is fun. - This is the only time that you can ever say the old white men - I don't think this should rich people bought video. - We'll put this into the smart things rich people bought video coming soon. - Bro and they drifted on the way out. - This is awesome. - I want it. - And it's probably better - Whoever makes these, DM me on Twitter right This is a $75,000 Tiger still costs less than we're staying in right now. Would you rather stay in this - I'm scared of tigers. Oh my god. Mike Tyson's the only dude that I could picture owning a tiger. [Tyson] One minute they're looking, they may take a chunk out of you. Then 20 minutes later You have to be very cautious with them. - Yeah, you have to be cautious. It's a tiger! It is a tiger, Mike Tyson. Yeah. You have to be cautious. - Mike Tyson is the only you know, put it in its place if need be. The Tigers getting a he hits it with the one-two. Now we're getting to the items that cost more than a and we're just getting started. We're on $120,000 Egyptian fish tank. - Whoa. - You sounded exactly like the guy there. - Swear to God is my - Wait, did Shaq buy this? - Yeah. This is Shaq's. That fish looks massive for that tank. - True, bro. The fish - The fish is like one fifth of the tank. - The fish literally has - No, he doesn't have two feet. They're fins. - I'm gonna be honest, I'd rather own that fish tank It's totally reasonable If you love fish. Everyone just has 120 grand. - But you have to love - And have 120 grand laying around. - Diamond Hot Wheels. - Hot Wheels! - This is 140 G's. - Do you know how important this is to me? - At Friday's unveiling of this diamond encrusted custom made 18 - How about we buy that and Tucker and let Tucker play with it, but we don't tell them it's 140 grand. And then after a week we told Chris Tucker's been playing with 140 grand car - Tucker's playing with a than Chris's real car. - Next we have a banana taped is 150 grand. - Two of them sold for $120,000. The third one expected - You know what, I'll say it. I'm gonna get into art work. My first piece I'm selling 200 G's. All right 190 now. Next up we have a quarter mansion for dogs. - Whoa. - It's like a dog creator house. - Are you kidding me? - Bro what? This doghouse - Five dogs live in here. You know what? I'm gonna go build a mini This is the dream. - I kind of want this, but for cats. This is a $575,000 robosaurus. - This is like an anime. - Wait, how's that not 5 million dollars? What? This costs less than a Lamborghini. - What on earth. - And it has a flame thrower? - What kind of power ranger stuff is this? - I'm just gonna say it. Whoever makes this, DM me on Wait, wait. This is stupid things rich people buy. - Yeah, yeah. - Wait, wait. Nevermind. I don't wanna buy it. Nevermind. - You're calling yourself out right now. - No! I became the thing Back into character. I mean, this is dumb. Only an idiot would buy it. I don't care if you're Jeff Bezos. This is a waste of money. - And he's just destroying this- what did this car do to him? - Right? So we have attack on Titan. - Okay. Person that made this, we need to make something attack on Titan. - No, we're making fun of rich people. - Is what I would've said - Exactly. There we go. We almost lost him. This is a million dollar - No. - Mack McBurney, who is the inventor and the designer of the real that is the $1 million lure. - He has to specify that like four times as if people are making fake - It's like this one's the real one. - He's like, stop guys. It's here. This is it. In fact, we've even got - No, they're not - Wow. I wanna know which That million dollar fishing which is actually a million - We can do this whole - It has sensors on it, and will come to the room and Carl, you wanna try to open it? - Sure. - Yeah. We have camera footage. - No shot. - Million dollar lure or this. Next step is an NFT that's It was the first tweet ever on Twitter. - What was the first tweet? I don't even know what it was. Oh, he didn't even spill Twitter right. - This one's not as crazy, cause the 2.9 million - Aww. It was resold for $280? What? - Wow. They should make a movie on that. Imagine paying 2.9 million for an NFT, and then selling it for $280 a year later. - There's a documentary somewhere in that. - It would be funny. He sells his house. He sells everything, buys the NFT. And then at the end of it, - Technically speaking, this - This has to actually be the Next is the frozen shark, This bad boy cost 3 million dollars. - It's a real shark. How long is this shark just exist- - It's actually two real sharks. - Oh, wait and look. It comes with Chandler. - The reason this is the in the world is because it and I still don't understand - It's bad. - This is the world's largest SUV. It is 3 million dollars. - All right, Mad Max. What is this? - Oh my gosh. Wait, so are those tires in the middle just if your other 10 tires pop? - They just wanna hang. - Wow. - What is the front half for? Humans can't even fit in that. That was easily the dumbest one yet. - Is it dumber than this 3.7 million sofa? - Even arriving with - Tell me if you think you're safe with this guy overseeing it. If I was a robber and watching this, I'd be like, oh, all right. Well then I'm gonna steal it. This is the kind of guy not defend my three and a - This is the kind of guy I want my kids to get taught history from. - And don't you try stealing this sofa. A local history teacher's protecting it. - Is this a metal sofa? - That doesn't make sense. - What? - These days they're so valuable. We're not even allowed to sit on them. - What? - Oh, it's a sofa you can't sit on. - What is the point? - What's the point of your $30,000 Pokemon blast choice card? - I don't know. - Checkmate. - I like to stare at it. - And they like to stare at their sofa. - That's wild. - It's the most expensive 4.8 million dollars. - I respect somebody that - Is that all gold? Oh of course. - A gold trash can? - Ah, come on. Really? 4.8 million bathroom, you still Why did the Associated Press do that? - Why did they have the zoom? - I don't know, but I hope This is a 15 million private zoo. I'm gonna be honest, 15 is not - Okay, they got giraffes. - Okay. This is awesome. Wait, there's a brown bear and This is actually really, really cool. - Wait, what? Zero shot I am feeding a - A dude like me, he You think Mike Tyson's Oh my gosh. They are too comfortable - The same guy that owns also has this service where in space for 25 million dollars. - Whoa. - Wow. - Each letter measured in at 500 meters. - That's 5 million a letter. - To get a sense of just how gigantic this thing is here's a and the Al Futaisi Island. - Wow. - What on earth? - You know what? If I ever have a spare 25 - That's kind of cool, - I think people at that kind of money, they just don't care. Their assistants like, They're like, I don't care. Take me to my private zoo. - It also got washed - Really? - That's a lot of money just to be gone. - I'm glad I saved 25 million - That's probably the most - Agree. Now we have a 42 which is actually owned by Jeff Bezos. This clock is built to tick - What? - Day night thermal cycles. It will keep time for 10,000 years without human intervention. - When one of the richest people in the world starts you should get a little bit nervous. - And the final thing that that I totally wouldn't buy if I was rich, this is just all stupid stuff, Guess how much it is? - No idea- - You're wrong. 91 million dollars. - It's so small. - That's what she said. Oh, the bunny's small as well though. The sculpture by Jeff Koons Wow. If you wanna help me I need you to go to your nearest Walmart and buy Feastables right now. Every single Walmart our Feastable Chocolate and Feastables cookies that you Go there right now.