Hey, Vsauce. Michael here and Derek. Generate(!) 78? That's so random. Or is it? What does it mean to be random? Can anything really be random? Today let's stop being random and become 'ransmart'. If something is unpredictable, and contains no recognisable patterns, we So let's begin our hunt for the most random thing with a coin toss. The Australian 50 cent coin is one of the largest coins currently in circulation. Coin flips and rolling dice are not they are only random because of our ignorance. If we could know every initial condition the exact forces and properties that play we could theoretically calculate the result before it even happened. And, sure enough, researchers that can precisely control a flip to get 100 percent of the time. So here is our question. Is there anything you couldn't predict even if you knew everything? A process determined by nothing? And how can you be sure they're aren't any patterns in what you're for the right pattern yet. Or maybe you have already seen true but didn't know it because you didn't As if protected by a sort of camouflage, a random process can, and will, YouTube URLs are pretty much random. A unique one is made for every like the proverbial monkeys typing away YouTube generates a URL that contains, by chance, a word. The official music video for 50 Cent's 'In Da Club' contains a synonym for bottom. This video was assigned 'hello', there are some 'sexies' and a sauce. If you has been randomly assigned to a video by using this string in Google. The point is, randomness is difficult to identify. is not random than that it is. But despite this elusiveness something interesting is going on right now. Increasingly, we, especially young people, are calling things random. Like randomly running into your best friend at a popular restaurant. Or hilariously bizarre combinations of things that we call totally random because they are even though, of course, they were chosen because they are all unrelated. Those guys that showed up at the party last night you didn't know, they weren't randos in a mathematical sense. They knew about the party, we're in Pretty predictable, actually. This non-statistical use of the word random annoys some people but it's not that far off of the word. In the 1300s, random meant running or at great speed. Later, it would be used to describe It wasn't until the 1800s that random Then in the 1970s, MIT's student paper popularised the use of the word random Of course, just because no discoverable cause. Why have we started random? Well, many theories revolve around the amount up information and new people at an increasing rate; now more than ever Perhaps it's just easier, almost a bit of a relief to call things random, so that we can move on to synthesise other information. Take a look at this die. Now, as you can see, it rolls a five most of the time but not all the time. Over time a sequence of its results will contain But it is still random. Any face is of knowing which face will show up. The resulting sequence less full of randomness but the process is still random. Even though a die and a coin are and, over the course of normal use, are unpredictable, they do over time exhibit certain biases. Biases that make them a bit more predictable and a little less random than you might think. First of all, dice. Even controlled within a few micrometers. You can check this out yourself. Make two stacks of ten or more similar dice. Now, if you orient each die every which way, But, if you arrange each stack along a shared axis, so that every die any regular imperfections caused by the But what about coins? Well, some fantastic research has been and flip. For instance, it has been found that US thickness to wind up landing not heads up or tails up when flipped, side, about once every six thousand But what about the fairness of flipping this, for statistical and physical reasons before the flip begins, doesn't actually have Instead, as researchers at Stanford have a fifty one percent chance. In this case it was the other side though. Still pretty random. If you want a coin flip to be as fair as possible, you should just catch it in your hand. Don't and spin. That's because researchers have larger biases come into play. The shape of its edge, its centre of gravity. The heavier side tends to go down quite often. In the case of some coins as often as eighty percent of the time. It's been will spin, and land heads up, more often than not, and a US penny will land tails up more often than not when spun. But like I said earlier, theoretically if we knew of a coin flip or a die roll, we could calculate beforehand their outcome. Why don't we do that more often? Well, it's extremely difficult. Insane amounts of precision would be required because the smallest difference between two initial leading to chaotic, extremely difficult Random.org, the service Derek and I used at the beginning of this video to generate a atmospheric noise. It's extremely hard to predict, but technically still a deterministic system. All that noise came from somewhere and conditions we could, theoretically, predict their outcomes. If we want a system more random than that we will need to find one that and for that let's look closer. Quantumly close. Quantum mechanics may have our answer. It describes the properties of quantumly as probabilities; just chances. Not because we don't know enough or predict, but because, well, the idea is there's nothing there to predict. There is no beforehand we could know. Whether or not a particular individual or whatever the spin of an electron is, is only knowable once we look. They're randomness woven into the universe itself. Einstein couldn't believe this. that &quot;God played dice with the universe.&quot; But... experiments with entangled particles have shown violations of Bell inequalities. Entangled particles are particles that even when separated by large distances. Now, if they agreed on those shared determined beforehand to have them, their behaviors should satisfy Bell's famous inequalities. that instead the likelihood of what a determines how the other machine will It is here, when we look that the chance is are even weirder but what the results the chance of seeing particular quantum qualities don't pre-exist. They happen when you look. So, if you are ever feeling boring or predictable, just remember that you are of quantum probabilities. Dice that don't analysable way we could ever predict. They are the most random thing. God may play dice with the universe, but they are the best dice in the universe. And as always, thanks for watching. But what does it all mean? Well, true randomness doesn't mean anything. structure, predictability and that is what I'm Wow, okay. So let's go over there and take a look at what is not random. Veritasium, let's go. I'll see you guys over there. And as always, thanks for watching.