SUNDAR PICHAI: In fact, notable investors think that it's gets fired or is forced to resign. But wait a minute, wasn't Sundar the golden per year, scaling the company from a successful quintupling the stock price? Well, yes, Sundar did do all of that, but in general, you're not judged based on past You're judged based on future expectations are at rock bottom. Google's core products are slowly bleeding than ever despite layoffs, and most importantly, it comes to AI. And to make things worse for Sundar, Sergey come out of retirement. After completely falling of the face of the to Sundar, Sergey made a surprise entrance More recently, Sergey made a rare public appearance done with Gemini. So, naturally, speculation regarding Sergey seen this time and time again with other stumbling and Twitter. But, how did we even get here? How did things get so bad so quickly for Google? And will Sundar Pichai actually be fired? Well, let's find out. SUNDAR BREAKS IN: to take a look back at how Sundar became CEO If you read Sundar's wikipedia page or business about a man who worked his way up from the The story goes that Sundar was born to a humble of 1972. And through pure grit and hard work, he was colleges in the world IIT. For those of you who aren't aware, IIT has For perspective, even Stanford and Harvard And the funny thing is that Sundar would go he got a masters in engineering before going So, little to say, Sundar had an extremely he would end up joining Google as VP of product From there, he would correctly identify that convince Sergey and Larry to pursue an in success. And it was due to this brilliant foresight or atleast that's how the story goes. Now, let me first say that there is nothing And nothing I'm about to say is meant to Obviously, Sundar is one of the most accomplished really argue against that whether he stays But, with that being said, the problem with perspective: Sundar's perspective. He worked hard, studied hard, achieved big, But the reality is that much of Sundar becoming had control over. You can actually argue that he was just a dates all the way back to the day that he When Sundar was hired, the CEO of Google was This guy was neither a founder or early employee He was actually an external executive recruit Google's founders, Larry Page and Sergey Larry and Sergey got along with Eric but at they knew what was best for Google and they In fact, they were trying to do exactly that As you might know, Sundar was interviewed And Gmail was one of Larry and Sergey's at large that Google could be a lot bigger It was the same thing with the Android acquisition, acquisition. Oftentimes, Larry and Sergey wouldn't even the fact. Talk about a great executive dynamic. But anyway, while these acquisitions were the real opportunity was going after the browser Eric, however, was strongly opposed to this He felt that taking on Microsoft was too big and Sergey from pursuing the idea for 6 full So, it's not that Larry and Sergey pursued They already had the idea for years. They just didn't have the authority or the When Sundar approached them with a similar They basically just told Sundar to assemble And here's Eric describing how exactly that Honestly pretty funny in retrospect, but unfortunately Larry and Sergey had brought several successful opposed for years. So, this naturally brought into question Eric's true geniuses behind Google, allowing Larry This evolution made Sundar a part of the trusted running for CEO. Fate, however, had a completely different SUNDAR BECOMES CEO: of the company again, they would really lean Things like Google's self driving car and In fact, Larry wanted to make Google into working on the next big thing. But, investors weren't so gung ho about Such visions simply painted Larry as a disconnected and focus. To make things way worse, Larry's voice You see, Larry was struggling with voice problems 2000s, and this would get especially bad in If you've never heard Larry speak, this he sounds. A clear testament to the idea that no amount Anyway, Larry would begin skipping shareholder couldn't speak which naturally put investors Not only was Google being led by a seemingly struggled to even communicate their thoughts The good news is that Google was founded by right? Well, no. Sergey would actually get caught up in an and tarnished his reputation, but it also Apparently, Larry completely stopped talking Alright, so Sergey was no longer in the running at Google who could take the reigns right? Well, there was: Andy Rubin - the founder Oh wait, never mind, Andy was caught up in paid $90 million to leave Google as soon as So, you had an executive who missed Chrome paralyzed founder, a founder with an affair, Talk about an inspiring executive team. At this point, it was clear that what Google that was uncontroversial. And that's how Sundar actually became CEO. Of course, he worked really hard and achieved final dominoes in his favor was circumstance. The 4 people who were actually in the running all forced out of the race in humiliating And the only person that was left in the inner to market. And with that Sundar Pichai would become CEO A few years later, he would get promoted to his lack luster performance. SUNDAR DROPS THE BALL: that he's done or not done over the past The reality is that he did exactly what he as possible and maximize revenue and profits. Since he tookover, Google's revenue has and their stock has gone to the moon. The only problem is that that's all that I mean, can you even name a single big product over? The biggest launch I can think of is the Google of value, but not so great in terms of sales In fact, the Pixel does not even control 1% Investors never had an issue with this lack still the market leader, but all of this changed All of sudden, investors wanted Google to backing from Microsoft. For obvious reasons, this was basically an was ASAP. Nonetheless, Sundar would try to deliver, later in March of 2023. Now, maybe, you could argue that Bard was was connected to the internet or something no one really cared. Just look at this graph comparing ChatGPT almost nonexistent. Whether Bard was actually a copy of ChatGPT it, and they had no interest in using yet This was only made worse by the fact that An early Bard ad would show Bard giving factually given how rushed they were to get Bard to This mistake not only humiliated Bard and market value plummeting by $100 billion. This was strike 1 for Sundar. It was now up to him to fix Bard and that's It was supposed to be Google's AI redemption, even worse than Bard. If you haven't seen the social media memes bias. According to Gemini, this is George Washington, Yeah, this blunder has not only made Gemini the company another $96 billion in market confidence that Sundar can actually lead Google Combine this with the fact that Sergey is cool off and it's not looking great for Historically, Sergey has always been in the that he's interested in being the main character This isn't to Sundar will be fired necessarily, Sergey if he's not pushed out altogether. So, how exactly did Sundar end up in this Well, despite his massive achievements, Sundar That's how we got the CEO Title. And as CEO, he gave shareholders exactly what that that's not actually what they wanted, AI isn't the only realm in which Google They also have to address the increasingly Check out this video to learn more.