Germany exists. But it has existed for only around hundreds of smaller states. So in this video Chapter 1: The Fall of the Holy Roman Empire German-speakers who lived under the Roman They mixed the ancient Germanic and Roman cultures Over the centuries these Germans spread out from Belgium and Luxembourg in the west to Poland the north to Italy in the south. But while the were not united in a single country. Instead the kingdoms, and empires. And these smaller states And in the 9th and 10th centuries various of these Empire. This empire also included people who and Italians, but the Germans were always in the like the Chinese or Regular Roman Empire with the But instead each ruler within the HRE was largely foreign policy, and their own economic policies. see themselves as German just because they spoke as as Bohemians, Holsteinian, or Austrian. To give But I don't consider myself German und ich bin Over time the Holy Roman Empire was ruled more controlled the Duchy of Austria. The ruler of the And with this power the Austrians grew from the 19th century. From around the 16th century onward This would mean more power for Austria and the German-speaking states. This would mean that all German army, individual states stop going to war large-scale infrastructure projects. As a result of countries in Europe went through this process Europe became stronger because of it. centralize the Holy Roman Empire the German not want a powerful Germany because countries. While the leaders of those As a result the Holy Roman Empire remained of Europe became more centralized and more centralized and most powerful country in Europe the emperor controlled the entire government. the French started a revolution: The French to Napoleon becoming the emperor of France in all of Europe. And in just 2 years Napoleon had Napoleon was used to ruling an empire where the all the 100s of small German states he would government similar to France. And so in 1806 created a new state: the Confederation of the territory you see on screen right now. Austria And lastly the Kingdom of Prussia was considered became its own independent country. As Abba has taught us: "At Waterloo, Napoleon did was defeated, there was another battle where the After the Germans were defeated by Napoleon, they and better armed. And in 1813 they defeated where over half a million soldiers fought WW1. This was a major milestone for German states soldiers banded together, not to fight And after Napoleon surrendered a new European Europe. The 4 Great Powers were: The the Austrian Empire, and the French Empire. the most powerful empires in the world... Afterall, In this new Europe the continent was divided into like Switzerland or Denmark. The goal of these such a way that each power was strong enough could conquer one of the other powers. And each The French Sphere of influence included Portugal, Eastern Europe and the Balkans. Great Britain And Austria received Northern Italy, Austria was once again in charge of the German them. And that new system was to unite all the called the German Confederation. As part of this this to this. Reducing the amount of states to Austria owned territories outside of the German not necessarily have to follow the laws of the a large amount of autonomy with their own armies, policy. But there were a lot more limitations Confederation had a parliament in Frankfurt where which would affect all the states. This leader of putting Austria in charge of its government. alliance. Meaning that an attack on one member Prussia, then they would automatically declare war this also included rebellions. So if Bremen had army to put it down. But at the same time, if the rest of the German Confederacy did not have a lot of protection, it did not provide them As a result Europe became a lot safer because one side of the continent to the other without Chapter 3: The Rise of German Nationalism largely as a way to stabilize Europe and prevent going to war with each other, the Germans saw the Germans were there at Leipzig and Waterloo. military. And countries with strong military Powers had treated Prussia as a minor power, no states were hoping to finally be free from foreign marched right back in. The Germans generally felt time in German history people started uniting and now it was the Austrians. And when a group those people generally become nationalistic. believe that they should unite under a single to gain their independence separately. there would be an independent Wurtemberg, But in this little spark of nationalism, the first German states not only shared a similar language, to the Danish border might speak a different But these cultures started growing closer together you might have heard of the Brothers Grimm. tales between 1812-15. These were not new stories most states. However, not all states shared the publication it was possible for a German living also reading those of other German states. This people. Today most Europeans don't place a however, in the 19th century such stories were These stories portrayed a German culture based childhood experiences. With the common theme Red Riding Hood was a story about a young girl but disobeys her authority figure and talks wolf kills her and her grandmother. The ladies' should do as they are told. And theme of doing as you're rold. This eventually a female personification of Germany who was And slowly over time a German nationalist movement A nationalist movement that wanted the Germans hand-in-hand with a new ideology: liberalism. have as much personal liberty as possible. In the where men had the right to vote and a capitalist how they wished. And rich people generally love some of those rich people gave money to the open to trading with each other. Nationalists, for German independence. By 1832 the nationalist festivals where they promoted a common German In 1840 the nationalist movement gained the German-speaking Rhine region be handed over the border. The German Confederation resolved the the Germans against a common enemy. This gave the make the Germans more nationalist is to find a that the German States. Will. Be. Independent. The German Confederation consisted of 39 states. the most powerful states. As a result this created Confederation and the Prussians who wanted to powerful enough to defeat the other side. As a to work together to keep the other 37 states But this would slowly change over the course was defeated Prussia received all of these lands powerful military. France was the most likely of German territory close to the French border invade. But they soon discovered that this region coal, and a few other materials to used for almost anything: building houses, Prussia was able to use these new resources to anybody else. And when a country industrializes to spend more money on their military. But then in order to keep up they will need to spend But if you spend more money on the army, you As a result, the later a country industrialized, other countries. But Prussia was lucky enough industrialize before the other German states behind France and the United Kingdom. And in a new economic policy. An economic policy every country has it: compulsory education. more skills. And in general the more skilled having a whole bunch of skilled workers in an As a result the average German worker was better than almost every other country in the world. countries adopting this compulsory education. So it's all the fault of the Germans! Don't get Chapter 5: The Prussian Customs Union a large industry you need to have customers who have a large population are therefore able to states did not have a large population. And Union'. A customs union is an agreement whereby What this means is that these countries agree to having the same tariff for goods from outside the European Union has a customs union. As to other EU countries without having to pay EU country. But if you are outside the then you will have to pay an extra tax. This exporting to the Netherlands costs just as The first of these German customs unions was customs union only included Prussia itself. That's their own tariffs and trade policy. But when these of Napoleon, Prussia wanted to remove all internal meant that businesses could sell to more people. built, to produce a larger number of goods, that As a result Prussian economy flourished. joined the Prussian customs union and in 1826 international customs union stead of a purely relatively small but thanks to their access to industry. Those states focussed on producing sell those goods to other states, and then Prussia wanted more states to join their customs already trading with other smaller states who were So Prussia decided to start a trade war by raising relied on trade with Prussia suddenly had to pay states couldn't afford to reduce commerce with their industry, they needed to keep trading with customs union just so they could hold on to the their industry would grow as they had better that joined the customs union, the more difficult the Prussian Customs Union. And as a result And the more states that joined the union the There were some attempts at creating competing simply so big that they couldn't compete. So together into a single customs union called word for Customs Union. States still outside the or through military force. And by 1866 every As a result the customs union became more and with one except: Austria was not allowed worked together in the Zollverein, the more independent the German economies became. conversion of currencies between the German money and buy goods in other countries. This expand to manage the currency conversions. And more control over the economies of the individual foundation for future political, military, states... if this sounds at all familiar to you, Or at least, are trying to do. For thousands of years the fastest form ship. But with industrialisation came new types of for the German economy and German nationalism. transportation we will discuss is canals. to be dragged with men and horses through could travel through canals on their own. This began connecting the German rivers together with and Elbe rivers. It became possible for a ship region without traveling via the sea. By 1846 180 The second innovation was the macadam road. laborers carefully putting stones together MUCH easier to build: you dug out some ground, into small rocks and dust, and then filled it easily with a large amount of unskilled labour. And lastly are trains. Trains allow a large between 2 major centers of trade. more industry was built, and more major country like Austria or the United Kingdom had Germany was a collection of medium-sized cities. result rail lines could connect dozens of cities across Germany. The first German rail line majority of the German Confederation's As a result of these 3 infrastructure economy grew faster than those of almost 1860s the average German was just as person... Until they would eventually This interconnectivity was great for trade but Bremen while someone from Oldenburg could visit people speak different languages. For example, language then traveling is incredibly difficult, shock that the German-speaking people all spoke most of them can understand each other. And doing business with each other, and learning development of the economy and technology. But Because if you can talk to other people and you start feeling like you're part of the same identities of the individual states were replaced Chapter 7: Realpolitik (1848-1860S) is in full swing, the German-speaking and the individual states are And people who become more nationalist, live ideas to like-minded people generally start series of revolutions Europe has ever seen. All And these revolutions were particularly strong in German people began demanding independence. But needed to be a powerful nation. But states such as they'd become independent another nation could the German states combined together into a single economic and military might of the entire German so powerful it could stand up to great And these 1848 revolutions had some successes common German constitution, they demanded and even dissolved the German Confederation. That's because the German nationalists couldn't how much power should the central government an empire? And as a result the Germans failed to But you might be wondering: why wasn't the Austrian Empire contained a lot of different Austria. The rest of their empire was inhabited and many more. During the 1848 revolution the the Austrians almost lost and had to ask Austrian vassal states in Italy who were also top of all those issues there were the Germans. of peoples. And when nationalism became popular independent country. And Austria was too weak slowly took back control over its own territory Italian nationalists with the help of France. In with the help of Russia. And in the German the help of Prussia: While the nationalists were rebellions across the German-speaking lands. And But this revolution showed the weakness of help with each of them. Apparently Austria was no Wars. This taught the nationalists a valuable Austria could ask help from their allies to the nationalists collected the lessons they The Principles of Practical Politics. With in German. And Germany is using Realpolitik all nationalists concluded that revolutions because the leaders of the German states would Prussia helped Austria to crush the German afraid the nationalists would remove them from with the ruling elites. that by working together Confederacy and the German states. Turning the and democratic movement into a conservative And this tactic was incredibly the Prussian elites were willing to in order to create a united German state under nationalists and Prussian leaders would the German customs Union, and the German armies But there was still 1 big issue: even they still wouldn't be strong enough to stand up and Russia. So Prussia's next task was to would come to the aid of Austria, if Austria And so the Prussians decided to present themselves That way if the Germans or Prussians ever declare as a friend instead of a threat. And the Russia had helped the Austrians put down the in 1853 the Russians went to war against the in the Crimean War. Seeing as the Russians Austrians to help the Russians. After the Italian, were in no shape to fight anyone. So they ask the German Confederation was a defensive alliance. then fight a war for Russia. And every single war with France and Great Britain if it did not so Austria did not support Russia. And as a After the Crimean War was over, the Prussians a potential ally to replace Austria. That if the on the Prussians instead. But Prussia's army had and Russia had 7 times the soldiers. If Prussia it needed to actually have a strong military And so in the 1850s and 60s Prussia started of the army to 400.000 soldiers by 1866, they a new rifle that could shoot 5 times before only shoot a single time before reloading. Because in those 2 years the Polish people started was largely controlled by Prussian and Russia. a revolution. And while the Prussians would they did allow Russian troops to travel attack the Polish revolutionaries in the back. The second was the United Kingdom. In simple policy for at least the last 500 years: To create fought with the Dutch against the Spanish, with and Italians against the Germans, and with Divide and rule, you see". Great Britain feared the continent. However, the British military was came from their fleets. And so the British would oppose German independence as long as Prussia did And lastly was France. While Prussia was trying south in Italy the Kingdom of Two Sicilies was Italy. And they were already receiving help had been enemies for centuries. You might have a centuries long rivalry, well, the same was France was okay with an independent Germany as wouldn't unite into a single country. If the each state would become their own independent independence. And Prussia promised that they would a united Germany and that the independent And so by the 1860s the Prussians had France, and Russia that they would Chapter 8: Austria vs Prussia making allies with the other Great Powers, they In the 1850 and 1860s Austria was in decline. just 13 years later in 1861 they had lost most of the Austrian Empire they wanted more control as the Prussia: Unite the Germans in a single to accomplish this goal Austria would have to as joining the Zolverein, the German Customs The first issue was that Austrian industry as a result an Austrian product was generally joined the Zolverein then Austrian industries The second problem was the distribution of tariff wanted to trade with someone from inside the an extra tax, a tariff. Tariffs were a major state surrounded by other members of the Zolverein for this, tariff income was distributed among the same share of the income. Prussia took a some of their tariff income to the smaller states. members part of the union. And in order for a had to agree. If just one state disagreed then wanted Austria to hand over a larger percentage So in order for Austria to join it would AND hand over more taxes. But after the 1848 They couldn't afford to lose more tax revenue. Austria then decided to try to become closer and Prussia to rule a new German Empire together. would eventually recycle this idea with the forming the Austro-Hungarian Empire. I will leave a link to that In the 1860s Austria tried a second time to if they kept saying 'no' to Austria that now Prussia had become so strong and Austria so And so they came up with a incredibly angry: Prussia signed a free trade France could trade relatively freely with Prussia. it meant that France could trade relatively things for the Prussians: the first is that French And if Austria joined the Zollverein they would their age-old enemy. This would harm Austrian meaning Austria would become dependent on France. customers for France. If the German states not rely on France for support, because With diplomacy failing, Austria decided In 1863 the king of Denmark annexed the region inhabited by Germans. This is a bit complicated Confederation but under the protection of Denmark would annex a part of the German it would signal to the world that even a small the Austrian Empire. And so Austria called Schleswig-Holstein from Denmark. In 1864 occupied by Prussian and Austrian troops. So that Prussia. This was seen as a threat. And so instead it instead started a war. But Prussia would of Italy. Because the Kingdom of Italy did not were still in the hands of the Austrians. So on April 8th 1866. and 2 months later on June Austria was forced to split their army to fight Italians, they could not defeat Prussia. They and better equipped. Austria tried looking for did not want to fight either the Austrian or out of the fighting. The Russians were friends Prussia, and the British couldn't help. And after the Austrian Empire on July 22nd 1866. As a over the other German-speaking states and they was left. And Prussia was now the new dominant Chapter 9: Germany. Will. Be. United. reorganized the German Confederation Under this new government Prussia such as Frankfurt, Nassau, Schleswig-Holstein, western regions together. Then there were the Confederation but were not under Prussian states such as Bavaria and a few others. and militaries of the various states under a far the largest state, they controlled this new government still gave a large degree how to manage their internal affairs. And the affairs, the military, and implementing Prussia would spend the next 3 years consolidating defense treaties with the southern states, states except Austria into a military alliance. proved to be a success that the southern states And this plan was accelerated in 1869. In that Spanish elites elected to put a member of the Spain was in France's sphere of influence. Losing have 2 German kings flanking them on either side. Austria and so France started to panic. France that he did not mean to insult France and that the Spanish throne. The Prussian king refused to a man called Otto Von Bismarck, wrote a reply interpretation the Prussian king politely refused, dismissed the demand. They published a German But when they translated the reply into French made the French angry. And angry French people during the French Revolution and during the 1848 French emperor had to find a way to make those be next. And his solution was to go to war with France was hoping for support from other had also received the letter from the Prussian So when they saw the French declaring war over they were just left baffled by the French the rest of Europe have to go to war with the management issues? And so France stood alone. nationalist fervor. And from all over the German German homeland from a French invasion. they were They were fighting for Germany. And thanks to the all over the North German Confederation and their the frontline. In fact, so many soldiers traveled frontline much faster than the French army. This just over 6 months the German armies had made emperor, and defeated France... One of the world's months... With their victory nobody would dare to Germans were swept up in German nationalism: to the people who had just defeated one of the And so, in the palace of Versaille, the leaders of the German states proclaimed all the German states Europe except Austria be called the German Empire. After the German were still officially independent. However, 10th 1871 and joined the German Empire. And The North German Constitution became the an imperial parliament that gave all male right to vote in direct elections. And these which could not be said for most other states maintained their own governments and such as economic policy. But instead of regional government. With the central government And if you want to know how Germany unified a about German Reunification. And if you're curious was unifying, then you can watch our video screen right now. And if you want to know German states, you can watch our video Empire on screen right now. This was Avery