In order to get into the psychiatric care area they are doing us a favor to open the chain. Sarapes, coats. How harsh, how harsh to have to live like this. In 1943 the Topo Chico prison was opened in Monterrey in the north of Mexico. A jail that was intended to be a maximum security prison, suitable for the reform even the most dangerous criminals, it wasn't long before organized crime began to take over what was really going on in there, and ironically in a place that pretended to be maximum security, much more worse things were going on than in the outside world. I'm talking to you that from here, there were important operations were going on, from drug trafficking, arms trafficking, planning of kidnappings, prostitution networks, you name it. This prison was governed by criminal minds that made unimaginable things happen inside and outside the facilities. Today we will go to explore the very recently abandoned prison facilities, which just a week ago from the day this is sure to be very very interesting, let one more adventure begin. I am already at this moment arriving to today is very, very recent, of course, they have already started to do some cleaning, we are no longer going to see everything intact as such but we are going to see it too recently. This is going to be a memorable experience, From this moment on we are going to go through the door to the penitentiary. This is now has already been slightly modified, this is the reception area, here they used to have desks for control all the visitors access, things like that. The main door to the lockup and this way is the access to the women's prision. Of the approximately 6,000, 6500 people that were in here, 400 were women who were in a small area there, and some were infiltrated into the general area. We're going to talk about this in more detail, is a very sad issue that involves trafficking, that involves prostitution, we will talk about it shortly more in detail but yes, around here women's zone and around here general area, let's call it that, because there was a majority of people in the men's area. Well this is the general courtyard, the main courtyard of the prison, from the way I imagined it, the first impression because let's remember that this site has been closed just a week, to see it like this without having context I would imagine &quot;Ah well it's been abandoned for a few years now, that's why it looks in this way, that's why you can see this mess&quot; but no no no no, the people deprived of their liberty, which is the prison had these living conditions, they were itinerary placed on the ground, because as the authorities are currently cleaning up the facilities we are going to find they are taking out clothing, personal hygiene items, these cleaning products from the facilities and in fact they have shown me drugs are being taken out, all of that was going on inside this prison, it really seems to me that it is something super super shocking, there are super strong images, and long guns hidden under the floor, and so recent that it feels very very real. It's here with me Saskia. - How are you Saskia? - I'm good. She is the one that's giving the tour and she's the one that connected me has a foundation called Re-inserta that is in charge of looking out for the rights of people deprived of their freedom, right? - Yes, it's a security issue, is to take control of the prisons so that we can really talk about security by taking control of the penitentiaries, by doing just what you are seeing in this video we can talk about a different security more security cameras out there, but to evaluate what we are doing with the prisons in our states. And it's really it is evident that something needs to be done, the tour of Topo Chico's facilities. Let's get an idea of how it was the lifestyle here inside the facility, [Music] Well, when we are in the general area, we find that there are, for example, classrooms, others around there are carpentry workshops, other types of trades so that the people who are deprived of their freedom would be kept occupied. They will continue to be educated and they will be working. Over there we have the medical services area, over there the theater where they entertained people here, many of these areas are already closed, they have already been closed for the police because they are currently under investigation and listen to me, this is a 100% real data, they are under investigation to find bodies buried corrupt, there was no real control of what was coming in and what was going out. It is thought that people from the external world were introduced so that here they could be sacrificed in all kinds of of rituals, because you really see things here that you don't expect to see in a prison, like for example, here we have a ritual to the holy death next to a liquor bar. I repeat that this is a prison, that this is a jail. This was a bar just like you hear, you could buy obviously your smoothies of various flavors. Smotings you could buy your zucaritas why not, your preference, your clamato, your michelada, salty dog, whatever that means, desarmador, your pina colada, bombs, orgasms, a cuba, a campechana and with that we start to get an idea of the lifestyle and the control that existed in this prison. Alcohol being sold to all hours, as long as people had money to pay for it. And this is only one of the altars to &quot;La Santa Muerte&quot; that exist, everywhere. In the channel, we have already talked about the La Santa Muerte, what it encompasses this belief which is not necessarily a bad thing, some people can give it a little bit more intense, a little bit more, a little bit more dark, here the truth I imagine that there are people there are those who not so much. Let's go inside. Look, we have the dogs of death guarding the altar. This way La Santa Muerte. Wow this is the prisoners had a lot of freedom and here is where they used to come to make the offerings to the &quot;flaquita&quot;, as it is called colloquially. [Music] Here we begin to see the areas of the cells, these cells were collective, in which were inhabited by wow so many, many, many people. You can see the size of this space, all of the beds in there but from what I'm told a bed as such, and this is quite shocking really, in the same space in which they were living people, deprived of their liberty, there was a kitchen, so here they cooked during the day, they slept at night. Imagine the amount of pests that were made by having the food here, by having the vegetables, the meat without refrigeration, the truth is that it's very hot here, the roof is laminated and right here the people had to get to to sleep, to rest. How shocking, isn't it? say so, and at one side is one of the most shocking cells, this was an isolation cell for people with tuberculosis and with HIV, this is a closed area, in fact it is named as contaminated area but they are letting us in I'm putting my mask on and Saskia is too rough. - You have already entered several times, right? - Yes, here they had the inmates, people deprived of their freedom with tuberculosis, with HIV, this is a door that they kept closed all the time and they would pass them buckets so they could go to the bathroom and also their food. There were about 90 to 120 people here, in the famous &quot;dormida de la cebollita, del cristo&quot; and so on, so that more people could fit in and as you can see there are worms on the floor, it's full of rats. - What is la dormida de la cebollita? When they all spread their legs, and they sit like they are spooning each other and they do it when there are too many people inside a cell. If I open up here, you sit here and open and another one sits down, it's like a kind of onion where more people fit. There were hammocks also for the people to sleep in hammocks, or Christ, they also hung from the cells to be able to rest. they even hung themselves to be able to sleep, wow, this is super shocking. Saskia came in the most recent days when it closed and showed me a video friends, that I'm passing on to you, wow all that stuff that you see in the video moving, are worms, they really started to lift up the floor with worms, cockroaches and rats, no really the smell here is really shocking. Look also at how everything is were sick people, so those we can't be exposing more people to get infected.&quot; so they had them here in complete isolation but they didn't come out, people that lived here didnt go out at all, all day long. For them to eat, they brought them things and for whoever could afford it, it wasn't like food ration for you and for you, they left it here and those who could eat, did and the weaker ones were eating bones, whatever was left over. it's brutal to see this and to think that this was inhabited until just a week ago. It causes me a lot of feelings, I have a lot of mixed feelings. [Music] In order to get into the psychiatric care area, they are doing us a favor, to open the chain, because this area had already been closed because it is very contaminated but in order for us to get in here to record, they're not doing us the favor of coming to open up. This is a very strong area and it's very important to be able to see it, to observe it, because here they brought people diagnosed the person that's guiding me, that when they saw somebody out grabbing excrement, grabbing poop off the ground and eat it is they would say &quot;There's something wrong with this person, we have to take it to the psychiatric care area,&quot; that really The aroma is, the aroma is penetrating. In total and let's put that in quotes, they came to be living at the same time 70 people. 70 people, imagine what a small space their dining room, here the restroom area and there's still a pair of underpants here, look at this and let's see guys, let's understand this is not like it's been put on this way because it's been in abandonment for a long time, this has been just a week that it has been vacated, it means that it was in this condition with people still here, in the bathroom, all of these are rat droppings, so just imagine This very hard for us, oh how harsh, how harsh to have to live like this, around here, these are the cells as such, 1, 2, 3, 4, designed for 20 people, here's a toilet inside the cell and there are still clothes, sarapes, coats, some personal cleaning items very recently, of course there remains of life is very ugly, it's very pitiful. Here more images of La Santa Muerte, we have seen that a lot, and here we have a shower, a bathroom... the sensation that I get walking around here, to see everything so dirty and the aroma that feels, I do feel that they are walking little things on me. Look there's a rat, Im terrified of just lifting this up and seeing what we come up with. No, no, no, this is bad. the standard of living here was the worst. Walking around I feel like I'm in a real war zone. The living conditions are terrible, several little things that allude to and for example this one here that says the maybe that's what they called them, here inside the prison, it was how they called them, the crazy ward, the pabelokos, as in the rest of the cells that we've been to say so, your cell, your do your graffiti. Really, walking here of behave yourself bro, behave yourself and don't get involved with the wrong people. You never ever want to to end up in a place like this. Here was possibly really horrible, this was the worst one because here they didn't even have beds, they just lived in their mattresses, they lived on the floor, they settled as they could, here they accommodated a lot of them, we can see that the door here isolated from this area. All of these, to say so, at least they had their base there, they had their space, here was like: wherever you can fit, make yourselves comfortable, do it as you can. [Music] We are entering to a set of cells whose aroma is strong, it is evident, is powerful, the person who is guiding me in a specific told me &quot;Lusillo enter to record this one, I am interested to know your reaction&quot;, let's see. At this point it's clear to us that La Santa Muerte is a strong image between these facilities, very this set of cells have been barely touched. Look at this, it really catches my eye how they embellished in their own way, for instance Santa Muerte, and as far as I can see there were four people in each cell, 2 at the bottom and 2 at the top. The atmosphere that you feel some that are painted in a little bit lighter colors, this is an allusion to the constant death, the mural here in the background, and look at this. This in particular, the fact that there is a bathroom women's bathroom inside the men's section gives us a very strong context, I'll explain why, you will see, in this prison there was everything and when I say everything I really mean everything, something very unfortunate that happened, from what Im being told me is that women who were in the women's area were being brought to the men's area they brought them in a food transport cart, which they called the uber, then they were transported from the women's area to the men's area they brought them hidden and very cold, very ugly, they would put them in this cart, they would hide them there and How hard, so cold, and that they have even given this a comical nickname for this mode of transportation. And as I say, the fact that there is a women's restroom inside the men's area tells us a lot. Here every day of the and how interesting, how peculiar, they brought them in to be prostituted, to be treated, but they did have their own bathroom ready so that only they could use it. [Music] From this courtyard we have a good view of most of the cells, and in fact just this part, this hallway here is super super symbolic. You'll see, in 2016 inside of this prison taken place inside a prison of all time occurred. Of course it's no longer a mystery, there was a lot of corruption here, it's super shocking to put us to think that from here inside they operated many, many, networks of trafficking of people, weapons, substances and as in everything, there is always a fight between two sides, for the ultimate power. Within the facilities of this prison this was no exception. So in 2016 a rebellion was organized, a riot in which power was to be defined, it was going to define which was the strongest side. How harsh, how shocking to think that this happens inside the facilities that are supposed to be inside to see the cell of one of the leaders, the very scenario is very impressive, starting from this hallway,. The cell of the criminal leader, is that one at the end, so all these cells that we see here were occupied by his guards, by his private escort, the ones that protected him from anyone coming to harm him, then of course, customized in their own way, here lived the armed guards, protecting, and look hidden behind maximum security, double doors, you opened one here, another one here, which they already removed and here was the luxurious cell of one of the criminal leaders, of the masterminds of this prison. They even tell me that here he had closed circuit surveillance and he had his and look even the floor changes, once you enter the it even smells clean in here if you ask me they tell me that here in the bathroom he even had where the showerhead is, he had his high pressure showerhead Did you imagine that this happened inside a it feels like it's a very privileged person's cell. of people boxing inside this cell, for the entertainment of themselves they gambled, they put other prisoners to box Obviously strong material, it's sensitive material. And hairdresser's shop, which was just like the hairdresser's shop for the privileged ones, how about that? that they had their screens and the whole menu of options for haircuts. Here you didn't even joke a ponytail, not even a figure. Holy heaven, brother get in tune! It's a very strange thing to see the luxurious part of the privileged inside a federal prison. [Music] Look, this is going to be peculiar, we are gonna of conjugal visitation. Once a month the people intimate visit and well, this is what the cells look like to carry out this conjugal visit. Cells of moderate size, we see that they had their bedswith mattresses, they have several cells, actually yes, quite a few, a telephone. These were like suites, wow good size, a tiger table, how about that? Look it was even getting erotic, they had the shower with glass to be able to see, like in a motel, we've already learned, an altar to the Santa Muerte. this one here is much bigger, the furniture, interesting I had never thought about conjugal visits. Well, there you have it, a quick glance and not to be left out. My friends this is how we conclude of Topo Chico. I think the message is clear and concise, just think about it, if everything of this happens inside a prison, inside a guarded area, just think about it, let's meditate on everything that's going on out there, let's behave ourselves, let's try not to meet with the wrong people that could get us into trouble and let's never ever stop appreciating our freedom. Thank you very much to the penitentiary for letting me record here, many thanks to the Re-inserta foundation for doing the excellent work they do. As always, we'll see in a few days with a new video. After watching this video you may be wondering where are all the people deprived of their freedom are going to go now? At well you are right, I invite you to see the video I made about the new prisons of Monterrey Mexico, click on the image on the screen