Hi everyone, and welcome to the Workshop. My name is Mandy, and I am a at APU. The goal of this presentation is technical writing is, when to use it, and introductory workshop is intended to technical writing. There are handouts presentation, including a chart that with other common types of writing and a rules of bulleted and numbered lists. If writing regularly, I encourage you to of writing. Technical writing skills are give you an advantage in the job market. Albert Einstein: &quot;If you can't explain it enough.&quot; There is a common misconception comes from simple-minded or genius states though, it actually takes a order to explain it in simple terms. In if a person understands a concept well circles as they try to explain it. So begin by defining it. Technical writing specific audience through maximum tangible goal in mind. Notice it only has or direct. Remember these purposes. On used to indirectly persuade the reader directing them. Think of a non-profit inform you of what the charity is doing encourage you to act in some way. Another dangerous spark of electricity could It is encouraging you not to touch the if you do. Technical writing never instructs, or directs. Notice also that audience and with a tangible goal.&quot; We presentation. On a similar note, many technical writing is only for technology-centered fields or fields in architecture and engineering. While these fields, it is actually a style of particular field. It's based on something type of writing or uncomplicated make simple direct statements. This style express themselves clearly in accordance times, however, this style is often used engineering fields. But it is also also disciplines. Keeping the definition of of any examples in writing that use one the video to give yourself a little bit of technical writing. Some other examples instructions, how-to tutorials, hiring descriptions, offer letters, most web other examples? The next few slides will different types of technical writing magazine showing how to drive the golf how to use chopsticks. This example shows This is an instruction manual on how to humorous adaptation, but the concept pamphlet about cholesterol. A manual for is also a technical writing example. This finally, this one is a research article examples have been examples of technical from technology fields, but others are Incorporation for church or a medical are still examples of technical writing plane style writing that favors anything else. Before we discuss how talk about the similarities between writing. First, you still have to use some brainstorming or prewriting, drafting, may look a bit different from other that you do not simply turn in or drafted with minimal effort. The writing though it may be shorter than other know exactly what information is information is essential to leave out. Every word must count in technical writing. You still have to employ strong grammar, punctuation, spelling, and more. will likely need to heavily research the Einstein said, &quot;you can't explain it enough.&quot; You also don't want to information to your reader. And finally, use APA or another style, technical its own guidelines and rules, and each individual field or company will have its own rules that wondering why some of these similarities examples of how just a simple completely change the meaning of the just want to tell grandma that it's time as well. Without commas, if you say that talking about a panda bear who is eating but if you add commas, you're actually eating bamboo but is also shooting Here is a sentence from a business is the following: The initial workshop generated several different sourcing proposed selection criteria to compare the project. First, that's a really have any comments and we don't know different examples of what the proper sentence is worded without punctuation, we can't be sure. Is it indicating that scopes while the phasing process did the items the workshop accomplished? The phasing, it generated sourcing strategies, Without the commas, we don't know, and the its intended purpose to inform. Remember technical writing examples. If you choose them in the wrong places, you are likely drastic consequences. Now that we have technical writing is similar to other it different. usually much more specific than other In fact, the written material is often only only ever be seen by those it's written together a military airplane would only the plans would probably only even be working on the project. This is an employee handbooks, professional lab more. It's likely that only those Next is presentation. The presentation or structure of technical writing documents is also clarity over anything else. The famous transitions and varied sentence structure technical writing. Instead, short and to keep your writing short and to the Visuals. Unlike many other styles or technical writing. Pictures, drawings, or image in their head and ultimately concepts being explained. Knowledge. college telling you that you had to credibility from other sources? While especially as a student, in technical be an expert on the topic. If you try to trust and respect of your reader. On a to tell you that you had to make the Perhaps for some writing assignments you opinion. For creative writing, you're ambiguous so that you could create writing, however, all information must be objective, factual, unambiguous, up-to-date, otherwise someone could start a fire instructions for wiring an electronic providing incorrect information to a that is explored differently in every choices that can be understood by most general population. In technical writing specialized language from the field precise for readers in that particular day, so using less precise words would be Tone. The tone in technical writing is There is no originality involved at all, possible. Absolutely no colloquialisms, In other academic writing courses, you are order to explain or support the main in technical writing, examples are far included when they are necessary for more information about how technical writing, particularly academic writing or technical writing compare and contrast this workshop by defining technical providing examples, and discussing the technical writing and other types of discuss the rules that should be You may want to jot these down and have you write in this style. The first rule Are you informing, instructing, proposing, look very different depending on the you will probably not receive the writing to fit the purpose and make your The next rule is to remember and understand exactly who your audience is and technical writing is so audience confusion about your audience can be What are your audience's concerns, they are reading? Are they experienced form will the writing take? What be Shape your content to fit the needs of your audience and even the medium of The next rule is to be knowledgeable. Know the topic or product and its particular requirements. Always learn as much as you can about what you are being asked to write. Going back to Einstein's quote, &quot;you have to understand it completely in order to Be sure you are aware of any requirements product, such as what warnings you may you may need to address. The next rule is sheet when creating a long piece of because any inconsistencies in word structures can confuse readers. Readers the time to think about what they are dangerous in some instances. The next words, keep everything short. Concise understanding because they don't have to Write clearly. This is a bit different keep sentences short without making them clear implications and simple sentence getting lost. It can have no ambiguities, Make good use of visuals. We already mentioned that but these visuals have to be chosen and serve a clear purpose, and the design of carefully crafted to enhance rules that technical writing actually Passive voice, for instance, is not sometimes it's necessary. If the subject keep them a secret, or you want to focus need to use passive voice. For example we required&quot; rather than &quot;Azusa Pacific if we want to focus on the attendance Figurative language, too, is less common creative writing. which is rare, that figurative language should refer to something that is For example, &quot;twist the nozzle clockwise Most people have twisted on a bottle cap, enhances understanding. Finally, sentence allows writers to present information numbered list. Always remember that if it it is encouraged in technical writing. We've talked about some of the rules of writing rules that technical characteristics of good Comprehensiveness of information keeps other sources of information. Emphasis. important points while subordinating where it's needed. Facility. Clear use of easy read can help the reader avoid High quality writing that is void of readers' trust in you and will also confidence will also put the reader at tasks rather than on your qualifications. but how do we learn to do that? How can understand the information we provide? First, start by practicing these eight your sentences with a concise subject tires&quot; is a concrete subject, but &quot;pumping the word pumping is not something we can example, say &quot;the red wire controls the the machine to be controlled.&quot; The main verb here should be control, not allows, because the red wire isn't controlling the machine. Get to the main there should be very few words before words, always write as few words as and avoid negative ones. For example, say with bare hands.&quot; Remember the known/new you should always begin a sentence with and then push new information to the end Be sure to control sprawl in your simple, with few clauses and phrases. means that each part of a list should Let's look at a couple of examples of open sentences with short, concrete how to get to the main verb quickly; and first example: &quot;Once upon a time, as a walk the part of Little Red Riding Hood, the occurred, causing her fright. Now, this is didn't it just make it extremely confusing it one more time just for emphasis: &quot;Once was taking place on the part of Little behind a tree occurred, causing her suggestions above so let's look at an Little Red Riding Hood was walking out from behind the tree and frightened short, concrete subject, Little Red Riding Little Red Riding Hood was walking through the tree, and the wolf specific verbs. We also get to the main actually &quot;was,&quot; but all that comes before Hood&quot; - was walking through the woods. And we've also been pretty concise. Everything in this sentence is necessary Let's look at another example. Remember that parallel structure ensures structure. Also remember to be as concise of parallel structure: jogging, volunteering at his church, and You may have noticed that the third degree black belt in karate,&quot; doesn't jogging and volunteering at his church. of that list has the same grammatical Fred enjoys jogging on the beach, practicing karate as a third degree is a very simple example, when you have complicated concepts, not using parallel difficult to understand. But since we're let's revise this sentence one more Fred jogs, volunteers, and practices for and what our purpose is, this may be concise example of all three. Think for a you read an article, a magazine, a make information less overwhelming or video for a few seconds to think about You may have thought of some of these content and page design elements: colors. Using bullets and numbers, maybe terms, using white space on a page by font size, can also make information easy easy on the eyes. Remember to utilize writing. Let's look at some different content that is easier on the eyes and very little page design, almost but it is a lot of words on a page with If we were trying to find something in to figure out where that is. This example white space because it uses line breaks, even boldface letters. This last example enhance reading and understanding. Colors, headings, spacing, images use of margins, and more allow us to locate information technical writing to look like if at all have an image, it doesn't necessarily easy to see where information is and how information part of this workshop with and intellectual, says that &quot;good writers efficient. That is to say, keep it do this when you use technical writing; keep it clear. Finally, I want to end by you look through these, you may want to Think about the following questions: why she made? What was done well in the What was not done well, and how would you do it differently? Also think about what the purpose and you think they were? As we finish up this workshop, I want did you find interesting? Or, how would workshop, and how will you use technical academics? What about in your chosen even in your church? If you have any the Writing Center here at APU, and we'd be have. that we mentioned in this workshop. Those handout, comparing technical writing with is one that gives specific instructions bulleted and numbered lists. I hope that information on workshops or to view center's website. Thank you for watching,