(light upbeat music) - [Narrator] This is the and SR 4 in Fort Lee, New Jersey. Truckers have called it the in America for five years in a row. All these roads merged together narrowing some 16 lanes into around seven, and ending up here, the connecting New Jersey to New York. Delays here have cost due to lost time annually. So, we asked a transportation engineer with about 25 years of experience for potential ways to fix this traffic. Because this area has physical improvements like might seem simple, but they're actually complex. - It's cost prohibitive to just add this much space. - [Narrator] And more space So instead, Singh suggests more reliable traffic flow. - With the major corridor, you may expect to see interchanges such as the cloverleaf interchange, where we wanna separate and we want to raise one over the other. That's called great separation. In this case, we would and connect them with a series of ramps that would then allow you to We typically use this in So if we were to apply at this location, we would a bigger footprint in As you can see, something of that size is really too large for this environment. And it would require wiping a lot of the park space that's And so for those reasons, we typically don't use in an urban environment. A roundabout is another when we have the intersection - [Narrator] Roundabouts are beneficial in keeping the flow of traffic going while slowing drivers down, reducing crashes. - [Singh] So you'd think that perhaps a roundabout like this - [Narrator] But the - [Singh] Getting all the in order to make those connections would be very challenging. - [Narrator] Singh says this separation is meant to maximize to push through the bottleneck. - As you can see, we have large vehicles such as trucks on the upper level and passenger cars as well. On the lower level we where the trucks are slower moving, cars are a bit more So by having the trucks and the buses operating independently is what It allows distribution of to the upper level during very busy times in order to help balance that demand. So, what we should be moving we have a very robust The question now is how of that operationally to - [Narrator] Singh says creative solutions can help divert traffic away from the area's bottleneck altogether. - Is there infrastructure to move trucks off of the GW Bridge? Today, the majority of trucks that deliver into Brooklyn, Queens, and Long Island come through the Verrazzano-Narrows Bridge or through our corridor. So there's really limited into this area. And because there's no rail all those goods have So 90% of the goods is transported via truck. - [Narrator] Almost 200 are handled within New York servicing over 8.4 million - [Singh] Another opportunity is a cross harbor tunnel that would connect a major with an established and and that could allow the to take some of those trips - [Narrator] Currently, Port Authority is evaluating an option running from Jersey City to Brooklyn as part of the Cross - One major strategy that we wanna look at is getting people outta - [Narrator] Strategies a policy that is already in the works. It would charge drivers more for access into high traffic areas during peak hours and that money would go toward building out more public transportation. - Currently the rail via Long Island Railroad, Metro into Penn Station or But the proposal that's been put out is creating a more integrated And so for example, we could that end in Hoboken into Lower Manhattan and up into Grand Central Station, but then also going through and connecting to Columbus Circle to capture more of Upper West and then go back into New Jersey. An integrated rail network would help get more people out of cars, which would then reduce on our corridor. - [Narrator] In 2022, New announced the groundbreaking of the Metro North Penn which plans to add four and expanded rail service to Connecticut and Westchester by 2027. According to the American congestion costs the trucking industry about $74.5 billion in 2018 and nearly 1.2 billion hours of delays due to traffic congestion which directly impacts the Singh says a variety to reduce all this red and make the roads more safe. - The safer road network a lot of the fatalities that It's also going to reduce the on the roadway, blocking traffic - [Narrator] Autonomous driving technology for both personal and public could help reduce crashes, he says. Think adaptive cruise - But a lot of the technology that goes into autonomous vehicles are being implemented in cars right now, being implemented in buses, and so we can benefit from a lot of that safety and technology today. - [Narrator] It's a long of autonomous vehicles and urban areas like this So Singh says transportation professionals can only seek ways to with multiple travel options (light music)