Subtitle: rbb Crime and crimes are my source of money. And they definitely don't run out in this city. * Music, camera clicking * * Bang * I'm Morris, 40 years old, from Berlin. For my job, I primarily photograph police and fire brigade operations at night. * Music * People want to see this blue light division. This is very well received. I get paid for it, the publishers and agencies pay money for me to create such content. As long as that's the case, I'll do it too. I sometimes have to do with the structures, by the structures I mean, for example, clan crime, crime in general. And if a police operation takes place at these structures and I document it with the camera, photograph it, film it, and it is shown on television, then I incur anger. This is not the first time that threats have occurred. That's why I don't want to be recognized. In order to hold out in the job, you need a lot of money at the beginning. You have to buy equipment, you need at least a car. You need information, you have to be able to wait. You need endurance, you need a lot of endurance. We drive to Jungfernheide S-Bahn station. There are said to be at least 3 injured after an altercation there . * Music * At the scene I first get an overview. (woman) Hi. - Day. Then I go to the police and say that the press is there. This is very important because when they see someone standing there with the camera, they don't know: Who am I? * Music, camera clicking * I don't know if it's a gift, but I can hold back and work from the background. Oh, greetings. Everything fresh? * Police radio, engines running * * Camera clicking * * Camera clicking * I heard that there were several injured people in Neukolln. * Music * After I have the photos, the matter is off the table for me. The only thing I think about then, this may sound trite, but: Do I get rid of it? Is it selling well? Will there be money for this? Because I make a living from making people feel bad. * Music * * Conversation, camera clicking * I am often asked by onlookers at the scene: &quot;Where did you get the information from? Are you listening to the police radio?&quot; Then I say: &quot;No, the police radio has been digitized. That is completely no longer a source.&quot; *Camera click* Show your photo! - Look, that looks nice, doesn't it? Very nice. - Yes. This looks very good. How did you know what was going on here? Noticed by the fire department. So, all the best to you. * Siren * I have a variety of sources: from the police, the fire department and other regulatory authorities, which I won't talk about here because I want to keep the good sources. Okay, the victim isn't RTW yet. Now we have to get out quickly. *Camera click* *Camera click* The knife stab is under the armpit. * Camera Click * * Camera Click * Done. * Music * People usually imagine that you're chasing blue lights all night, just being outside, having something to do all the time. But waiting makes a lot of difference in the activity. Sometimes you spend 2-4 hours just waiting. * Cell phone message signal * In the time you're standing around, you pass the time researching, browsing social media, checking to see if there's anything in a Facebook group that might be relevant. I have a visitor here every night. That's a fox. We know each other. I flash his lights and then... (laughs) ... we're both happy. When I'm really bored, I go and hit the hotspots. Kotti, Hermannplatz, Schlesisches Tor, Warschauer Strasse, Alexanderplatz, so really all the hot spots that are also known from the media. * Music * This job is what I've been doing the longest so far because I just feel joy, day in and day out. *Camera click* I will definitely sell the pictures from the operation. There was a basement fire in a high-rise building in Gropiusstadt. And from what I've seen, there are at least two people injured after smoke intoxication. And yes, something like that works. You can get rid of something like that, you can sell something like that. I have to get home when the sun comes up or I'll turn to dust. * Cell phone signal * I fear the future every day. But you can deal with fear of the future if, for example, you have delivered. Then I'll get it under control for a moment. But just a few hours, I can't get rid of it. * Typing and music * The job is a relationship killer. I would say I work 6 nights a week. Then you come home in the morning, the child is sleeping. You're loud, blustering, but you're trying to be very quiet. When my mother's day begins, mine ends, I go to bed. So you can hardly do anything together. If I had looked for another job and taken my life in a different direction, it would probably be possible that they would still be together. The fact that I'm in a situation like this takes a toll on me. When I'm out and about with my daughter, I feel joy. I'm somewhere else mentally, I don't look at my phone, I don't look at work. We can talk really well, like we're on equal terms. She knows a lot about everything, about the whole world. When we go for a walk, she shakes my hand and we walk around the area hand in hand. These are the happiest moments when I am with her. *Music* I often have to ask people, &quot;What kind of day is today?&quot; When people look forward to the weekend: &quot;Yeah, today is Friday.&quot; These are the days when I start working. * Music * Oh, someone is throwing things out the window, I'm driving back a bit. (Man with accent shouts) This is all theater against me. Wallah, this is a plan for me. (Policewoman) They wanted to come down. (panicked) What did I do? Why so? * The man swears incomprehensibly * I'm the head of the block here. - So the neighborhood manager? Unfortunately I don't have this young gentleman under control. I don't know why, too many bad substances. Has he freaked out often? - So once every week. Has he ever thrown anything from the balcony other than flower boxes? Piss. - Piss? He poured water into a container and threw it at small children. All right, that doesn't sound so nice. (panicked) Help! Help! *Camera Click* Help! (crying) Help! *Camera Click* Help! *Camera Click* Help! * Music * Berlin will always be my home, of course. I didn't leave Berlin often. All I know is that when this all comes to an end, I'll have to start traveling and see where I like it. A Berliner who opens the newspaper says: &quot;Man, what kind of shithole is this?&quot; I deal with it every day and I really see that it's a shithole, so when someone asks me what I think is beautiful in Berlin: the view from the TV tower. I'm really trying to find something nice about it, but the train has somehow left the mark. * Music * The most emotional mission was about 5 years ago in Lichtenberg. There the fire brigade was only alerted: "Defenestration". It happened like this... ...I arrived at the scene, there were a lot of police and rescue workers on site. The picture that emerged for me was that a small child was being frantically treated by the fire department. The second thing I saw: There was another man lying there who wasn't being taken care of anymore. Death was probably already confirmed there. *Music* *Deep exhalation* This is the path I ran from the parked car. If there is a small child lying there, the rescue effort becomes even more intense. All I know is that the helpers were overzealous and really tried everything, even though they themselves perhaps realized that it was pointless. After consultation with the police, it became increasingly clear that this was an extended suicide. The man obviously first threw his child off the balcony, probably hesitated a little, then jumped after him. I put my bag down and said, &quot;Leave it, I don't feel like it anymore.&quot; My girlfriend was heavily pregnant. And on the other side there is a small child who was thrown from the balcony, so senseless. Then a vehicle drove up and the door burst open. A woman ran out, screaming the whole time. She was received by rescue workers. Super desperate screams. These are the kind of screams that go through your bones. I still hear her screams in my head every now and then. These are things that stay. Who does something like that? So who goes out and photographs dead people? Who watches people being resuscitated voluntarily? Just so people can scroll through on their phones while drinking coffee in the morning and see what happened. But that's something I can't use in my job if I go to a job site with emotions. I'm actually in constant stress, but I also can't stand rest because I think it would be a waste of time. * Music * We are now going to Rummelsburg, where a person is said to have been injured. *Camera click* *Camera click* Apparently a stabbing occurred here. The man sitting there is obviously the perpetrator. *Camera click* (to colleague) You can pack your camera. Yes, cuts in the arm. You can be happy for being so late. Yes, I'll come to the gas station later and eat a cracker. * Engine accelerates, music * * Camera clicking * You can be voyeuristic. But in my opinion it's about maintaining boundaries. And I make sure it goes right. In any case, I respect personal rights. The accident victims, for example, are made unrecognizable. Perpetrators too, of course, perpetrators also have personal rights. Well, I'm done too. We can go. What happened? - A drunk drive. This caused a car to overturn. I have an appetite and think I could use a cracker. So I drive to my geezer gas station. There I meet with colleagues, other photographers, cameramen from other agencies. The night is discussed a bit. Or whether you already have something in the box. We don't have much to do with each other privately. I also have to say, I like being a loner. *Music* This looks like a large caliber rifle. No shit. (Colleague) What is a large caliber? - A submachine gun. Or military weapons, weapons of war. The other looks like a Kalashnikov. We hardly have anything now where one could say: great drama. Two stab wounds today. And a shootout. - And a shootout, yes. We've never sat here and had to comfort each other. So. I ate a cracker. We wanted to photograph the moon. Where is the? Here. - Can you see it? I have to say that I find the moon really interesting every time , it just stands there, doesn't do anything, looks beautiful. He radiates a certain calm. I have a folder at home full of moon pictures from different times: half moon, full moon, a crescent. Okay, I'll get going. Boys and girls, we have to go to work. * Music * * Siren * We are now driving to the Hotel Estrel. It is possible that a person fell out of the window. *Music and siren* (quietly to himself) Egg-ei. Where is the deployment site? The fire department is at the front and back here. Well, where do we have to go? The hotel doesn't actually have any windows that open. I get out and ask. *Camera click* (Operations Manager) Hello. - Good morning. Possibly suicide, so please take photos from the side. If I committed suicide, I wouldn't continue at all. I heard that it was a prom. I don't know anything about that. - And that it was a test of courage. And they fell through a plexiglass pane. So yes, but I don't have any information about the former, which doesn't mean anything, but they are a bit sensitive right now. Then I stay on this side and take photos slightly at an angle. Then we do it like this. - Thank you. * babble of voices * Do you have any new insights? - Yes, it is actually an accident. I only had other information. They fell through the roof, they were sitting on the glass roof, and it collapsed. I have two injuries so far. - Okay, thank you. * babble of voices * Everyone is sensitized, the parents are there, it's highly dramatic. Yes, I'm holding back. - Yes. * babble of voices, quiet screams * This is shit! - We work here. Go please. -Turn off the fucking camera. Hello, sorry! - Get rid of them! - No. (loudly) Don't touch me! * Police officer talks to attacker * I really have to work here. Go please! - How can you film this? He was drunk and twisted my arm. The most important thing is that I have the injured person in the picture. That's what makes the story complete in the end. This is a pretty tragic accident. And yes, I assume that the citizen is interested. And I would prefer ... ... if ... ... the victim was brought to the RTW very quickly because the mood here is becoming more and more heated. Be careful, please. (Operations leader) She comes to Neukolln, seriously injured. Pulse is there. She is ventilated and is taken to Neukolln. Polytrauma, sure. - Alright, thank you very much. *removes babble of voices* I make the light beautiful. - How would you like it? A little bit later, then I'll have it in the picture. Press service of the Berlin fire department, Ziegrastrasse in Neukolln, the fire department received an emergency call. We found a seriously injured 17-year-old on site, along with another young person. They broke through a ball of light and both fell 8 m. The 17-year-old girl had to be resuscitated on site and was taken to a clinic with serious injuries. The second person was seen here by the emergency doctor, but did not have to be taken to a clinic. Great, all clear. I don't need any more, thank you. Well, it's the end of the day for me. - Yes, a tragic event. Let's hope everything goes well. - Yes. We'll see that tomorrow. My gut tells me it's a pretty good story. And since I was here very early, my footage is very strong. After the competition came and filmed something... ...I think my chances are very good. * Music * (Reporter) It was supposed to be a nice end to school for the young people who celebrated at the Hotel Estrel, but it ended tragically with the death of a young woman. * Music * (reads) &quot;17-year-old, ... Berlin, accident.&quot; (Cell phone video) ... Festival of joy ends in tragedy. &quot;Turntable.&quot; ... in Berlin-Neukolln ... ... according to the police ... - This is my material. ... graduated in the hotel. (Narrator) One person had to be resuscitated on site. Another 5 people were looked after on site by the emergency services. Since they still need to be cared for, emergency pastoral care came here. I can imagine still doing this at 60, after all you only need a car. If the opportunity arises and the money is still right: yes, why not? * Music * It is human nature to be curious. I just make sure that this curiosity is satisfied. Subtitle: rbb 2023 Petra Winkler