This is the first video of the new year. Did you all enjoy the warm new year? It's already 2024, and time seems to be passing faster. The end of the year has already passed...let's get rid of the tree now. If you don't throw away the plastic containers containing fruit and cosmetics containers, there is a place for them to be useful here and there! If you organize small tree decorations that don't have boxes by type, you won't lose them, and the containers are transparent so you can see what's inside at a glance. In particular, I highly recommend this container that came with pears for putting large-sized round decorations in it! It's so exciting and nice when you first take out the Christmas tree and decorate it, but it seems like a real hassle when it comes to putting it away. There were quite a few decorations rolling around without boxes, thanks to that I'm so organized. I bought a dryer sheet case a few years ago and have been using it for wool balls. The eco-friendly dryer sheet box that I sometimes use for blankets doesn't have much power, so it flops every time I use it, and I have to open and close the lid. Buying another case would be a waste of money, so I'm going to make a box! It looks neater if you turn the messy outside inside and fold it. We'll attach it to the washing machine or dryer with a magnet, but if you don't have a magnet at home, try the second method. Draw a square inside, cut it out, fold it back to its original shape, and attach it. How convenient it is because you can just pop it out through the hole~ Just attach it to the washing machine or dryer with a magnet you have at home and use it. You can use either the magnet method or the non-magnet method according to your preference. Cut the small box in half and use it to organize your bobby pins and hair ties that are just rolling around. No matter how much you organize your child's small items, they quickly become disorganized. Let's organize them by making a three-tier folder using a cereal box! Usually it is made vertically, but I made it horizontally so that large pieces of paper can fit. I wanted to neatly stick paper sheets on the inside, but it was too bothersome, so I just skipped it... It's neat to store items that tend to fall easily like this. It is inconvenient to put things under the pencil case, or the wasted space is a waste. In this case, you can solve the problem by using a solid cake box with one side cut off! It is stronger because you place the cake plate with the stronger bottom facing up. It is now possible to store even items that could not be stored due to lack of space! I like to divide things by type, but there are times when I don't have enough organizing containers and when I try to gather them all in one place, they end up looking messy. I clumsily used the spare space by attaching several thin pasta boxes together, and it was better than most organizers! (Except for that flashy red...) There are many useful uses for a used tissue box. If you store the rolled up garbage bag like this, it is convenient to pull it out and use it without it getting messy. I reuse used dryer sheets instead of throwing them away, and if I store them in a tissue box, I can take them out and use them whenever I need them without them rolling around. To store the frame, I use a rubber band and the junk magazines that comes in the mail. If you place the paper on the glass side and secure it with a rubber band, it will be less likely to break or crack, and by fixing the moving stand behind the frame, you don't have to worry about it getting damaged. Even if the frames collide with each other, you can store them without the glass breaking. We all know that the plastic clips on bread are good for organizing wires, but did I find out too late that it can also be useful for tape? If you attach a clip to the end of the tape after using it, it will be convenient the next time you use it. Let's share this for those who don't know! Did you know that disposable masks also have an expiration date? If you have a mask that you have only used once or if you don't want to throw it away, try removing the wire and using it for organization! (When cutting with scissors, cut inside the line so that the fabric can be reused.) If you cut the mask fabric and put baking soda inside, it is good for various uses in places where odor is a concern. Don't you have at least one fabric bag that you received for free at an event? If you cut about 7-8cm in the middle of the bottom and sew it so that the stitches do not come undone, you can easily pull out the bags and use them. Just one number has changed, but when the new year comes, my heart feels refreshed. I only see unfinished homework here and there and I want to organize it even more I hope this year, as always, there will be a lot of ordinary and small daily life without any special events. First recap video of the year, I hope it was helpful to you. Happy New Year everyone!