(tapping) - When I was in the Quintana one of the things I was most excited to do was experience and eat ancient Mayan food, so we rented a van and drove to Chunhuhub, a small Mayan village deep known for preserving If you love chocolate, corn you, well actually we In this video I'm taking where we'll cook and eat and wow, is it fascinating. (mellow music) Okay, we're all loaded up in the car, and by the way, meet my We're traveling with Carlos Ying and Micah are all in the back. So we're driving to a place, I think that's how you, it's fully Mayan, but it's about a two and a half hour drive from Playa Del Carmen, so we're gonna just follow the map into the jungle. We're on our way. Carlos, listo? - Do it. Listo, vamanos. - Vamanos. Just stopping quickly to Been driving for about an hour and a half. We have reached a place it's Wow, it's been gorgeous so far. We're really getting off the beaten path. Oh yeah, what is that? (speaking foreign language) There's a very nice lady who (speaking foreign language) - Panuchos. - [Mark] Panuchos. - [Carlos] Panuchos. - Ah, panuchos, they look like a little, almost like a tostada and then topped with, it looks like topped with chicken and avocado, lettuce, and there might be some Thanks, man. - [Carlos] Todo buenas, man. - Here it is, my panucho, Que paso? - Panucho. - Panucho. (panucho crunching) Mm. Yeah. It's really good. A little bit cold, but Possibly on the inside, maybe it's beans, but it's just a very thin But that kind of gives it a and flavor to the whole (panucho crunching) - [Wife] Did you want another, Carlos? - [Carlos] Hmm? - This was a much needed (mellow music) And we have about 40 minutes to go. We made it to Chunhuhub. The place that we're going and to eat is just down the road. I think it's about a 10 but this is a very off the (mellow music) Oh, I need to stretch. That was almost a three hour drive from Playa Del Carmen, This is actually a whole eco lodge, but they also preserve Mayan culture here, so we're gonna see it, have a chance to watch traditional Mayan coming up very soon. We're literally like of the Yucatan Peninsula. We're right on the border, kind of close between Quintana Roo the Gracias. It's some kind of a citrus, A type of, mm, but it has like a, almost like a bitter smell to it. Slightly. Oh! Oh, that is wonderful. It's like a cross between, yet orange-y at the same time. It's delicious. (speaking foreign language) Naranja agria. It was a sour orange. (speaking foreign language) Okay, so we're just walking and into the compound. It's beautiful back here, it's just a fruit and vegetable paradise. (upbeat music) (speaking foreign language) Oh like a tamales pib, ah. This is the traditional Mayan milpa, which is a, it's like self-sufficient, vegetables and fruit and cooking and I think you, anyway, this is the milpa, and they just started the fire, you can see the logs are burning and then there's a bunch of I think we're gonna cook and it's called a pib. Hola. - Hola. Buen dia. - [Mark] Buenas dias. (speaking foreign language) - [Man] Okay. (speaking foreign language) - [Man] It's very traditional. - [Mark] Okay. - [Man] She was saying when she was a kid, she didn't like it because it was like so traditional back then. - This is absolutely beautiful to see the Mayan food culture like this. Right now they are working on preparing a few different types of tamales, which are traditional After they finished in, there's both banana leaf packets, and another type of leaf. This is the, oh, this is the, and this is another leaf some of the tamales in, but then right outside is where the pib, it's like an underground and then they burn wood, and that's outside, that's that's getting ready for the preparation. I'm just getting hungrier by the second. But I am so excited. (speaking foreign language) (upbeat music) - Another dish that they're making is called cochinita pibil, and it's a pork dish which is marinated in a bunch of spices, They have already pre-marinated it because they say it But you'll find that dish across Mexico, but they are telling it's not made the traditional way anymore. It's originally from the it's a Mayan dish, and they're going to be cooking it underground in that oven, the traditional way, so to try the authentic version. Wow that feels, it's so hot, the immense heat coming off of it. Something I have to share with you that's really, really cool, though, is you can't really see it right now but I might have gotten a shot earlier where the sticks, the wood, was covering this entire ground pit, and then the rocks were on top and then they lit the wood on fire and they say that they to start cooking when because the wood has burned enough, and then the rocks fall and so they have just fallen. We were actually in the hut, and the sticks broke, they called in wood in fire, and this is a very authentic way to cook traditional Mayan food. (speaking foreign language) (upbeat music) There's another version that she's making that's unlike anything I've ever seen. It almost looks like a pot but she takes some of the masa, she makes it into a little cup, then she adds in some of I'm not totally sure what it is yet, sauce and then she adds in and then pats down some and then tops it with a lid and then wraps it up and that's another type of Mayan tamale that we're going to try today. (speaking foreign language) (spoon scraping and food sizzling) - [Man] This one is Tox-sel. - Tox-sel. - [Man] Tox-sel. (speaking foreign language) - And it's the white beans, They took a rock directly out of the pib, stuck it into the pot with the beans, and you could immediately hear it just hissing as it cooked. You can smell the, you can see it smelled so good, probably with the spices as well. That's really cool to watch. Awesome method of cooking. (speaking foreign language) (fire popping) They took out all the wood which You do not want to fall into this pit or you would be roasted. Oh and now some giant, are being covered, covering the pit. (speaking foreign language) (palms rustling) (metal creaking) (speaking foreign language) Every now and then, you a little explosion under there maybe some, a rock exploding, maybe That is gonna bake for That is a Mayan feast cooking underground. I can't wait! (speaking foreign language) As we're waiting for the we're actually gonna have a snack and so she's making fresh I asked her what's in it, pounded with water, that's it, and then she makes it She puts in onto the and we're gonna eat these fresh tortillas along with that Tox-sel, with that lava rock, that hot stone which she mixed in with those beans. This is gonna be our appetizer. (speaking foreign language) It has this unbelievable, I'm bathing in the steam because I want to because it smells so good. It's like this really unique, almost, I guess roasted garlic, but it's like a really umami smell coming off of those beans. It's really, really unique. (upbeat music) (speaking foreign language) Muchas gracias. These are ultra fresh tortillas right of the griddle. When you take one out of that little gourd they're steaming hot, and I remembered the name, and you put some of those beans, oh, by the way, that unique aroma and ingredient in those beans, which is ground up and and then a little bit of salsa on top, you wrap this up, a Mm. Oh. Oh, those beans are amazing! It's so smoky, like, intense but then you do taste from those pumpkin seeds kind of earthy, kind of, almost like smoky meat kind of flavor to those beans. That is incredible. Mm. That's a two biter. - [Man] What is it? (speaking foreign language) - [Woman] Achiote. (speaking foreign language) - [Mark] Can I see that? (speaking foreign language) - [Man] It takes a while. (speaking foreign language) - Oh, they wanted to show us the plant, kind of red-orange color and they use that in a lot of dishes. Oh yeah, it has a little A little floral-y, floral but very light though. So we've got about an hour and a half to wait for the food to cook. So we are just gonna take it easy. Micah is loving it here. The breeze, the shade, And yeah, this is great. We're just going to relax until the Mayan feast is ready. Oh! Oh, Micah, look at these - [Woman] No, it's orange. - No, I don't think it's orange. (speaking foreign language) (upbeat music) That was a long wait, but it's time. (shovel scraping) Look at that steam just coming out now. (palms rustling) (speaking foreign language) You can still feel the heat of those rocks coming out even after two hours of baking, but as soon as he took you get this eruption of baked and steamed all in there. I am so excited right now, and they have a whole but the light is a so I thought it would be sit within the milpa, that we've been cooking in and that we have just been hanging out in. The food looks absolutely incredible. I gotta start eating immediately. I absolutely have to begin It's a piece of pork, You can see all that red-orange color which came from that spice that we, that flower thing that we checked out, and you can see all the juices This is just, I bet it's tender, and just loaded with flavor. Oh, look at how tender that is! (laughs) Oh. Oh, wow. I think there's some red But you can taste that little fruit. Kind of almost has a, a citrus-y, Okay and she said it would be best to eat it with tortillas That sauce will absolutely blow your mind. And the tenderness of that pork and that just caked on spice. Oh wow, it's unbelievably good. Put this into a tortilla. I'm gonna add on some of the which they look very purple, and maybe they're marinated in something? And then finally I will hot chile sauce, she which is very spicy. Which I need. (slurping and chewing) (laughing) Unbelievable. That pork, the sour vinegared it tastes like burnt chiles. Yeah, they do have a kick to them. Excellent. Insane, with those freshly made tortillas. Absolutely amazing. It's absolutely stunning. So incredibly good. Okay, so we've got all of tamales on this plate. This is that giant like This is that giant one, and this one is a variation with the beans. I think those same white and then this one is quite and something like I've never seen before wrapped up in multiple leaves. There's beans in the middle Okay, I'm just going to and try a piece of this, wow, that's a, that looks very hearty. Oh, it's still so hot. And then it's wrapped in that leaf, which is called Hoja Santa. (bird calling) Mm, mm. So it's, I mean it's a because it's so starchy and so but the flavor, I love the flavor. I think the unique thing is that one leaf, Hoja Santa, which has a, not really bitter, well, slightly bitter, very green tasting, and very unique. But then you've got the creamy beans, you've got the very fine corn paste. Mm, and that leaf just Okay, I'm gonna add onto this for next, this is the (birds chirping) It's a little bit dry, I'm gonna revolve the the giant one too which So I gotta unravel this, and this also has that orange coloring, seasoning to it as well. That jungle seasoning. Let's break into this. Oh, yeah, it's just full of meat. Oh, and all that orange sauce, And all of that masa, that thick masa. Okay I'm gonna take a center bite so I get a lot of that orange sauce and some of that chicken as well. I got a little bit of all (upbeat music) Mm, again you can taste that little orange-red fruit in there. It has a little bit of a peppery taste. I mean, it's mild in flavor, the naturalness of it. The chicken, the corn, It's like warming, it's it's nutritious. It's awesome food. Okay, and now I have which is this other one, and yeah, just, I love all the ingredients are natural, all the ingredients are from right here. It's eco-friendly, it's traditional, this is ancient cooking, using the land, ancient Mayan food, and it's absolutely superb. Mm, mm. Oh, so the same type of except this time it's and wrapped in that masa. Mm, the flavor is awesome. Again, I do like it with because it's kind of dry. But that's just hearty, filling, Mayan, delicious natural food. (upbeat music) (laughs) That's outstanding. That is so incredibly good. Oh wow, that masa is extremely heavy. I'm very full after that meal, but it was, yeah it was delicious. I loved learning about Mayan culture and learning about the food, how some of the traditional and then trying them. The pork, the cochinita The tamales were all very but very, very filling, and everyone here, they've been so nice to us, they're so warm, they're so generous. Yeah, they're very, very nice people, and this is just, it's such a cool place. You can come here, it's right, I mean it's a little, it's quite and that's what makes it You can come here, you can learn about traditional Mayan culture, you can eat, you can cook. This place is an entire Kiichipam K'aax, and I of this place and all about coming here in the It's been a fantastic time here. I've thoroughly enjoyed it. I've learned so much about and Mayan culture, just and learning about the food. I want to say a huge for their extreme generosity to have a chance to hang And I want to say a huge thank you to you for watching this video. Please remember to give it a Leave a comment below, and also, remember to click subscribe. I'm gonna be publishing lots And also click that little bell icon, that way you'll get notified and all future videos that I publish. Thanks again for watching. I will see you on the next video.